"If you forgot the watch, mamma, would that be a little thing?"

She was not concerned about the watch, for she knew it would not be forgotten. What she was
hoping for was that the answer would unriddle the riddle, and bring rest and peace to her perplexed
little mind.

The hope was disappointed, of course--for the reason that the size of a misfortune is not determinate
by an outsider's measurement of it, but only by the measurements applied to it by the person
specially affected by it. The king's lost crown is a vast matter to the king, but of no consequence
to the child. The lost toy is a great matter to the child, but in the king's eyes it is not
a thing to break the heart about. A verdict was reached, but it was based upon the above model,
and Susy was granted leave to measure her disasters thereafter with her own tape-line.

As a child, Susy had a passionate temper; and it cost her much remorse and many tears before
she learned to govern it, but after that it was a wholesome salt, and her character was the
stronger and healthier for its presence. It enabled her to be good with dignity; it preserved
her not only from being good for vanity's sake, but from even the appearance of it. In looking
back over the long vanished years, it seems but natural and excusable that I should dwell with
longing affection and preference upon incidents of her young life which made it beautiful to
us, and that I should let its few small offences go unsummoned and unreproached.

In the summer of 1880, when Susy was just eight years of age, the family were at Quarry Farm,
as usual at that season of the year. Hay-cutting time was approaching, and Susy and Clara were
counting the hours, for the time was big with a great event for them; they had been promised
that they might mount the wagon and ride home from the fields on the summit of the hay mountain.
This perilous privilege, so dear to their age and species, had never been granted them before.
Their excitement had no bounds. They could talk of nothing but this epoch-making adventure,
now. But misfortune overtook Susy on the very morning of the important day. In a sudden outbreak
of passion, she corrected Clara--with a shovel, or stick, or something of the sort. At any
rate, the offence committed was of a gravity clearly beyond the limit allowed in the nursery.
In accordance with the rule and custom of the house, Susy went to her mother to confess, and
to help decide upon the size and character of the punishment due. It was quite understood that,
as a punishment could have but one rational object and function--to act as a reminder, and
warn the transgressor against transgressing in the same way again--the children would know
about as well as any how to choose a penalty which would be rememberable and effective. Susy
and her mother discussed various punishments, but none of them seemed adequate. This fault
was an unusually serious one, and required the setting up of a danger-signal in the memory
that would not blow out nor burn out, but remain a fixture there and furnish its saving warning
indefinitely. Among the punishments mentioned was deprivation of the hay-wagon ride. It was
noticeable that this one hit Susy hard. Finally, in the summing up, the mother named over the
list and asked:

"Which one do you think it ought to be, Susy?"

Susy studied, shrank from her duty, and asked:

"Which do you think, mamma?"

"Well, Susy, I would rather leave it to you. You make the choice yourself."

It cost Susy a struggle, and much and deep thinking and weighing--but she came out where any
one who knew her could have foretold she would.

"Well, mamma, I'll make it the hay-wagon, because you know the other things might not make
me remember not to do it again, but if I don't get to ride on the hay-wagon I can remember
it easily."

In this world the real penalty, the sharp one, the lasting one, never falls otherwise than
on the wrong person. It was not I that corrected Clara, but the remembrance of poor Susy's
lost hay-ride still brings me a pang--after twenty-six years.

Apparently, Susy was born with humane feelings for the animals, and compassion for their troubles.
This enabled her to see a new point in an old story, once, when she was only six years old--a
point which had been overlooked by older, and perhaps duller, people for many ages. Her mother
told her the moving story of the sale of Joseph by his brethren, the staining of his coat with
the blood of the slaughtered kid, and the rest of it. She dwelt upon the inhumanity of the
brothers; their cruelty toward their helpless young brother; and the unbrotherly treachery
which they practised upon him; for she hoped to teach the child a lesson in gentle pity and
mercifulness which she would remember. Apparently, her desire was accomplished, for the tears
came into Susy's eyes and she was deeply moved. Then she said:

"Poor little kid!"

A child's frank envy of the privileges and distinctions of its elders is often a delicately
flattering attention and the reverse of unwelcome, but sometimes the envy is not placed where
the beneficiary is expecting it to be placed. Once, when Susy was seven, she sat breathlessly
absorbed in watching a guest of ours adorn herself for a ball. The lady was charmed by this
homage; this mute and gentle admiration; and was happy in it. And when her pretty labors were
finished, and she stood at last perfect, unimprovable, clothed like Solomon in all his glory,
she paused, confident and expectant, to receive from Susy's tongue the tribute that was burning
in her eyes. Susy drew an envious little sigh and said:

"I wish I could have crooked teeth and spectacles!"

Once, when Susy was six months along in her eighth year, she did something one day in the presence
of company, which subjected her to criticism and reproof. Afterward, when she was alone with
her mother, as was her custom she reflected a little while over the matter. Then she set up
what I think--and what the shade of Burns would think--was a quite good philosophical defence.

"Well, mamma, you know I didn't see myself, and so I couldn't know how it looked."

In homes where the near friends and visitors are mainly literary people--lawyers, judges, professors
and clergymen--the children's ears become early familiarized with wide vocabularies. It is
natural for them to pick up any words that fall in their way; it is natural for them to pick
up big and little ones indiscriminately; it is natural for them to use without fear any word
that comes to their net, no matter how formidable it may be as to size. As a result, their
talk is a curious and funny musketry clatter of little words, interrupted at intervals by the
heavy artillery crash of a word of such imposing sound and size that it seems to shake the
ground and rattle the windows. Sometimes the child gets a wrong idea of a word which it has
picked up by chance, and attaches to it a meaning which impairs its usefulness--but this does
not happen as often as one might expect it would. Indeed, it happens with an infrequency which
may be regarded as remarkable. As a child, Susy had good fortune with her large words, and
she employed many of them. She made no more than her fair share of mistakes. Once when she
thought something very funny was going to happen (but it didn't), she was racked and torn with
laughter, by anticipation. But, apparently, she still felt sure of her position, for she said,
"If it had happened, I should have been transformed [transported] with glee."

And earlier, when she was a little maid of five years, she informed a visitor that she had
been in a church only once, and that was the time when Clara was "crucified" [christened]....

In Heidelberg, when Susy was six, she noticed that the Schloss gardens were populous with snails
creeping all about everywhere. One day she found a new dish on her table and inquired concerning
it, and learned that it was made of snails. She was awed and impressed, and said:

"Wild ones, mamma?"

She was thoughtful and considerate of others--an acquired quality, no doubt. No one seems to
be born with it. One hot day, at home in Hartford, when she was a little child, her mother
borrowed her fan several times (a Japanese one, value five cents), refreshed herself with it
a moment or two, then handed it back with a word of thanks. Susy knew her mother would use
the fan all the time if she could do it without putting a deprivation upon its owner. She also
knew that her mother could not be persuaded to do that. A relief most be devised somehow; Susy
devised it. She got five cents out of her money-box and carried it to Patrick, and asked him
to take it down-town (a mile and a half) and buy a Japanese fan and bring it home. He did it--and
thus thoughtfully and delicately was the exigency met and the mother's comfort secured. It
is to the child's credit that she did not save herself expense by bringing down another and
more costly kind of fan from up-stairs, but was content to act upon the impression that her
mother desired the Japanese kind--content to accomplish the desire and stop with that, without
troubling about the wisdom or unwisdom of it.

Sometimes, while she was still a child, her speech fell into quaint and strikingly expressive
forms. Once--aged nine or ten--she came to her mother's room, when her sister Jean was a baby,
and said Jean was crying in the nursery, and asked if she might ring for the nurse. Her mother
asked:

"Is she crying hard?"--meaning cross, ugly.

"Well, no, mamma. It is a weary, lonesome cry."

It is a pleasure to me to recall various incidents which reveal the delicacies of feeling that
were so considerable a part of her budding character. Such a revelation came once in a way
which, while creditable to her heart, was defective in another direction. She was in her eleventh
year then. Her mother had been making the Christmas purchases, and she allowed Susy to see
the presents which were for Patrick's children. Among these was a handsome sled for Jimmy,
on which a stag was painted; also, in gilt capitals, the word "Deer." Susy was excited and
joyous over everything, until she came to this sled. Then she became sober and silent--yet
the sled was the choicest of all the gifts. Her mother was surprised, and also disappointed,
and said:

"Why, Susy, doesn't it please you? Isn't it fine?"

Susy hesitated, and it was plain that she did not want to say the thing that was in her mind.
However, being urged, she brought it haltingly out:

"Well, mamma, it is fine, and of course it did cost a good deal--but--but--why should that
be mentioned?"

Seeing that she was not understood, she reluctantly pointed to that word "Deer." It was her
orthography that was at fault, not her heart. She had inherited both from her mother.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCI.

OCTOBER 19, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--IV.

BY MARK TWAIN.

When Susy was thirteen, and was a slender little maid with plaited tails of copper-tinged brown
hair down her back, and was perhaps the busiest bee in the household hive, by reason of the
manifold studies, health exercises and recreations she had to attend to, she secretly, and
of her own motion, and out of love, added another task to her labors--the writing of a biography
of me. She did this work in her bedroom at night, and kept her record hidden. After a little,
the mother discovered it and filched it, and let me see it; then told Susy what she had done,
and how pleased I was, and how proud. I remember that time with a deep pleasure. I had had
compliments before, but none that touched me like this; none that could approach it for value
in my eyes. It has kept that place always since. I have had no compliment, no praise, no tribute
from any source, that was so precious to me as this one was and still is. As I read it now,
after all these many years, it is still a king's message to me, and brings me the same dear
surprise it brought me then--with the pathos added, of the thought that the eager and hasty
hand that sketched it and scrawled it will not touch mine again--and I feel as the humble and
unexpectant must feel when their eyes fall upon the edict that raises them to the ranks of
the noble.

Yesterday while I was rummaging in a pile of ancient note-books of mine which I had not seen
for years, I came across a reference to that biography. It is quite evident that several times,
at breakfast and dinner, in those long-past days, I was posing for the biography. In fact,
I clearly remember that I was doing that--and I also remember that Susy detected it. I remember
saying a very smart thing, with a good deal of an air, at the breakfast-table one morning,
and that Susy observed to her mother privately, a little later, that papa was doing that for
the biography.

I cannot bring myself to change any line or word in Susy's sketch of me, but will introduce
passages from it now and then just as they came in their quaint simplicity out of her honest
heart, which was the beautiful heart of a child. What comes from that source has a charm and
grace of its own which may transgress all the recognized laws of literature, if it choose,
and yet be literature still, and worthy of hospitality. I shall print the whole of this little
biography, before I have done with it--every word, every sentence.

The spelling is frequently desperate, but it was Susy's, and it shall stand. I love it, and
cannot profane it. To me, it is gold. To correct it would alloy it, not refine it. It would
spoil it. It would take from it its freedom and flexibility and make it stiff and formal. Even
when it is most extravagant I am not shocked. It is Susy's spelling, and she was doing the
best she could--and nothing could better it for me....

Susy began the biography in 1885, when I was in the fiftieth year of my age, and she just entering
the fourteenth of hers. She begins in this way:

     We are a very happy family.

But wait a minute--I will return to Susy presently.

In the matter of slavish imitation, man is the monkey's superior all the time. The average
man is destitute of independence of opinion. He is not interested in contriving an opinion
of his own, by study and reflection, but is only anxious to find out what his neighbor's opinion
is and slavishly adopt it. A generation ago, I found out that the latest review of a book was
pretty sure to be just a reflection of the earliest review of it; that whatever the first reviewer
found to praise or censure in the book would be repeated in the latest reviewer's report, with
nothing fresh added. Therefore more than once I took the precaution of sending my book, in
manuscript, to Mr. Howells, when he was editor of the "Atlantic Monthly," so that he could
prepare a review of it at leisure. I knew he would say the truth about the book--I also knew
that he would find more merit than demerit in it, because I already knew that that was the
condition of the book. I allowed no copy of it to go out to the press until after Mr. Howells's
notice of it had appeared. That book was always safe. There wasn't a man behind a pen in all
America that had the courage to find anything in the book which Mr. Howells had not found--there
wasn't a man behind a pen in America that had spirit enough to say a brave and original thing
about the book on his own responsibility.

I believe that the trade of critic, in literature, music, and the drama, is the most degraded
of all trades, and that it has no real value--certainly no large value. When Charles Dudley
Warner and I were about to bring out "The Gilded Age," the editor of the "Daily Graphic" persuaded
me to let him have an advance copy, he giving me his word of honor that no notice of it would
appear in his paper until after the "Atlantic Monthly" notice should have appeared. This reptile
published a review of the book within three days afterward. I could not really complain, because
he had only given me his word of honor as security; I ought to have required of him something
substantial. I believe his notice did not deal mainly with the merit of the book, or the lack
of it, but with my moral attitude toward the public. It was charged that I had used my reputation
to play a swindle upon the public; that Mr. Warner had written as much as half of the book,
and that I had used my name to float it and give it currency; a currency--so the critic averred--which
it could not have acquired without my name, and that this conduct of mine was a grave fraud
upon the people. The "Graphic" was not an authority upon any subject whatever. It had a sort
of distinction, in that it was the first and only illustrated daily newspaper that the world
had seen; but it was without character; it was poorly and cheaply edited; its opinion of a
book or of any other work of art was of no consequence. Everybody knew this, yet all the critics
in America, one after the other, copied the "Graphic's" criticism, merely changing the phraseology,
and left me under that charge of dishonest conduct. Even the great Chicago "Tribune," the most
important journal in the Middle West, was not able to invent anything fresh, but adopted the
view of the humble "Daily Graphic," dishonesty-charge and all.

However, let it go. It is the will of God that we must have critics, and missionaries, and
Congressmen, and humorists, and we must bear the burden. Meantime, I seem to have been drifting
into criticism myself. But that is nothing. At the worst, criticism is nothing more than a
crime, and I am not unused to that.

What I have been travelling toward all this time is this: the first critic that ever had occasion
to describe my personal appearance littered his description with foolish and inexcusable errors
whose aggregate furnished the result that I was distinctly and distressingly unhandsome. That
description floated around the country in the papers, and was in constant use and wear for
a quarter of a century. It seems strange to me that apparently no critic in the country could
be found who could look at me and have the courage to take up his pen and destroy that lie.
That lie began its course on the Pacific coast, in 1864, and it likened me in personal appearance
to Petroleum V. Nasby, who had been out there lecturing. For twenty-five years afterward, no
critic could furnish a description of me without fetching in Nasby to help out my portrait.
I knew Nasby well, and he was a good fellow, but in my life I have not felt malignant enough
about any more than three persons to charge those persons with resembling Nasby. It hurts me
to the heart. I was always handsome. Anybody but a critic could have seen it. And it had long
been a distress to my family--including Susy--that the critics should go on making this wearisome
mistake, year after year, when there was no foundation for it. Even when a critic wanted to
be particularly friendly and complimentary to me, he didn't dare to go beyond my clothes. He
never ventured beyond that old safe frontier. When he had finished with my clothes he had said
all the kind things, the pleasant things, the complimentary things he could risk. Then he dropped
back on Nasby.

Yesterday I found this clipping in the pocket of one of those ancient memorandum-books of mine.
It is of the date of thirty-nine years ago, and both the paper and the ink are yellow with
the bitterness that I felt in that old day when I clipped it out to preserve it and brood over
it, and grieve about it. I will copy it here, to wit:

     A correspondent of the Philadelphia "Press," writing of one of
     Schuyler Colfax's receptions, says of our Washington correspondent:
     "Mark Twain, the delicate humorist, was present: quite a lion, as
     he deserves to be. Mark is a bachelor, faultless in taste, whose
     snowy vest is suggestive of endless quarrels with Washington
     washerwomen; but the heroism of Mark is settled for all time, for
     such purity and smoothness were never seen before. His lavender
     gloves might have been stolen from some Turkish harem, so delicate
     were they in size; but more likely--anything else were more likely
     than that. In form and feature he bears some resemblance to the
     immortal Nasby; but whilst Petroleum is brunette to the core, Twain
     is golden, amber-hued, melting, blonde."

Let us return to Susy's biography now, and get the opinion of one who is unbiassed:

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa's appearance has been described many times, but very
     incorrectly. He does tell perfectly
     delightful stories. Clara and I used to sit on each arm of his
     chair and listen while he told us stories about the pictures on the
     wall.

I remember the story-telling days vividly. They were a difficult and exacting audience--those
little creatures.

Along one side of the library, in the Hartford home, the bookshelves joined the mantelpiece--in
fact there were shelves on both sides of the mantelpiece. On these shelves, and on the mantelpiece,
stood various ornaments. At one end of the procession was a framed oil-painting of a cat's
head, at the other end was a head of a beautiful young girl, life-size--called Emmeline, because
she looked just about like that--an impressionist water-color. Between the one picture and
the other there were twelve or fifteen of the bric-à-brac things already mentioned; also an
oil-painting by Elihu Vedder, "The Young Medusa." Every now and then the children required
me to construct a romance--always impromptu--not a moment's preparation permitted--and into
that romance I had to get all that bric-à-brac and the three pictures. I had to start always
with the cat and finish with Emmeline. I was never allowed the refreshment of a change, end-for-end.
It was not permissible to introduce a bric-à-brac ornament into the story out of its place
in the procession.

These bric-à-bracs were never allowed a peaceful day, a reposeful day, a restful Sabbath. In
their lives there was no Sabbath, in their lives there was no peace; they knew no existence
but a monotonous career of violence and bloodshed. In the course of time, the bric-à-brac and
the pictures showed wear. It was because they had had so many and such tumultuous adventures
in their romantic careers.

As romancer to the children I had a hard time, even from the beginning. If they brought me
a picture, in a magazine, and required me to build a story to it, they would cover the rest
of the page with their pudgy hands to keep me from stealing an idea from it. The stories had
to come hot from the bat, always. They had to be absolutely original and fresh. Sometimes the
children furnished me simply a character or two, or a dozen, and required me to start out at
once on that slim basis and deliver those characters up to a vigorous and entertaining life
of crime. If they heard of a new trade, or an unfamiliar animal, or anything like that, I was
pretty sure to have to deal with those things in the next romance. Once Clara required me to
build a sudden tale out of a plumber and a "bawgunstrictor," and I had to do it. She didn't
know what a boa-constrictor was, until he developed in the tale--then she was better satisfied
with it than ever.

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa's favorite game is billiards, and when he is tired and wishes
     to rest himself he stays up all night and plays billiards, it seems
     to rest his head. He smokes a great deal almost incessantly. He has
     the mind of an author exactly, some of the simplest things he cant
     understand. Our burglar-alarm is often out of order, and papa had
     been obliged to take the mahogany-room off from the alarm
     altogether for a time, because the burglar-alarm had been in the
     habit of ringing even when the mahogany-room was closed. At length
     he thought that perhaps the burglar-alarm might be in order, and he
     decided to try and see; accordingly he put it on and then went down
     and opened the window; consequently the alarm bell rang, it would
     even if the alarm had been in order. Papa went despairingly
     upstairs and said to mamma, "Livy the mahogany-room won't go on. I
     have just opened the window to see."

     "Why, Youth," mamma replied "if you've opened the window, why of
     coarse the alarm will ring!"

     "That's what I've opened it for, why I just went down to see if it
     would ring!"

     Mamma tried to explain to papa that when he wanted to go and see
     whether the alarm would ring while the window was closed he
     mustn't go and open the window--but in vain, papa couldn't
     understand, and got very impatient with mamma for trying to make
     him believe an impossible thing true.

This is a frank biographer, and an honest one; she uses no sand-paper on me. I have, to this
day, the same dull head in the matter of conundrums and perplexities which Susy had discovered
in those long-gone days. Complexities annoy me; they irritate me; then this progressive feeling
presently warms into anger. I cannot get far in the reading of the commonest and simplest contract--with
its "parties of the first part," and "parties of the second part," and "parties of the third
part,"--before my temper is all gone. Ashcroft comes up here every day and pathetically tries
to make me understand the points of the lawsuit which we are conducting against Henry Butters,
Harold Wheeler, and the rest of those Plasmon buccaneers, but daily he has to give it up. It
is pitiful to see, when he bends his earnest and appealing eyes upon me and says, after one
of his efforts, "Now you do understand that, don't you?"

I am always obliged to say, "I don't, Ashcroft. I wish I could understand it, but I don't.
Send for the cat."

In the days which Susy is talking about, a perplexity fell to my lot one day. F. G. Whitmore
was my business agent, and he brought me out from town in his buggy. We drove by the porte-cochère
and toward the stable. Now this was a single road, and was like a spoon whose handle stretched
from the gate to a great round flower-bed in the neighborhood of the stable. At the approach
to the flower-bed the road divided and circumnavigated it, making a loop, which I have likened
to the bowl of the spoon. As we neared the loop, I saw that Whitmore was laying his course
to port, (I was sitting on the starboard side--the side the house was on), and was going to
start around that spoon-bowl on that left-hand side. I said,

"Don't do that, Whitmore; take the right-hand side. Then I shall be next to the house when
we get to the door."

He said, "That will not happen in any case, it doesn't make any difference which way I go around
this flower-bed."

I explained to him that he was an ass, but he stuck to his proposition, and I said,

"Go on and try it, and see."

He went on and tried it, and sure enough he fetched me up at the door on the very side that
he had said I would be. I was not able to believe it then, and I don't believe it yet.

I said, "Whitmore, that is merely an accident. You can't do it again."

He said he could--and he drove down into the street, fetched around, came back, and actually
did it again. I was stupefied, paralyzed, petrified, with these strange results, but they did
not convince me. I didn't believe he could do it another time, but he did. He said he could
do it all day, and fetch up the same way every time. By that time my temper was gone, and I
asked him to go home and apply to the Asylum and I would pay the expenses; I didn't want to
see him any more for a week.

I went up-stairs in a rage and started to tell Livy about it, expecting to get her sympathy
for me and to breed aversion in her for Whitmore; but she merely burst into peal after peal
of laughter, as the tale of my adventure went on, for her head was like Susy's: riddles and
complexities had no terrors for it. Her mind and Susy's were analytical; I have tried to make
it appear that mine was different. Many and many a time I have told that buggy experiment,
hoping against hope that I would some time or other find somebody who would be on my side,
but it has never happened. And I am never able to go glibly forward and state the circumstances
of that buggy's progress without having to halt and consider, and call up in my mind the spoon-handle,
the bowl of the spoon, the buggy and the horse, and my position in the buggy: and the minute
I have got that far and try to turn it to the left it goes to ruin; I can't see how it is ever
going to fetch me out right when we get to the door. Susy is right in her estimate. I can't
understand things.

That burglar-alarm which Susy mentions led a gay and careless life, and had no principles.
It was generally out of order at one point or another; and there was plenty of opportunity,
because all the windows and doors in the house, from the cellar up to the top floor, were connected
with it. However, in its seasons of being out of order it could trouble us for only a very
little while: we quickly found out that it was fooling us, and that it was buzzing its blood-curdling
alarm merely for its own amusement. Then we would shut it off, and send to New York for the
electrician--there not being one in all Hartford in those days. When the repairs were finished
we would set the alarm again and reestablish our confidence in it. It never did any real business
except upon one single occasion. All the rest of its expensive career was frivolous and without
purpose. Just that one time it performed its duty, and its whole duty--gravely, seriously,
admirably. It let fly about two o'clock one black and dreary March morning, and I turned out
promptly, because I knew that it was not fooling, this time. The bath-room door was on my side
of the bed. I stepped in there, turned up the gas, looked at the annunciator, and turned off
the alarm--so far as the door indicated was concerned--thus stopping the racket. Then I came
back to bed. Mrs. Clemens opened the debate:

"What was it?"

"It was the cellar door."

"Was it a burglar, do you think?"

"Yes," I said, "of course it was. Did you suppose it was a Sunday-school superintendent?"

"No. What do you suppose he wants?"

"I suppose he wants jewelry, but he is not acquainted with the house and he thinks it is in
the cellar. I don't like to disappoint a burglar whom I am not acquainted with, and who has
done me no harm, but if he had had common sagacity enough to inquire, I could have told him
we kept nothing down there but coal and vegetables. Still it may be that he is acquainted with
the place, and that what he really wants is coal and vegetables. On the whole, I think it is
vegetables he is after."

"Are you going down to see?"

"No; I could not be of any assistance. Let him select for himself; I don't know where the things
are."

Then she said, "But suppose he comes up to the ground floor!"

"That's all right. We shall know it the minute he opens a door on that floor. It will set off
the alarm."

Just then the terrific buzzing broke out again. I said,

"He has arrived. I told you he would. I know all about burglars and their ways. They are systematic
people."

I went into the bath-room to see if I was right, and I was. I shut off the dining-room and
stopped the buzzing, and came back to bed. My wife said,

"What do you suppose he is after now?"

I said, "I think he has got all the vegetables he wants and is coming up for napkin-rings and
odds and ends for the wife and children. They all have families--burglars have--and they are
always thoughtful of them, always take a few necessaries of life for themselves, and fill out
with tokens of remembrance for the family. In taking them they do not forget us: those very
things represent tokens of his remembrance of us, and also of our remembrance of him. We never
get them again; the memory of the attention remains embalmed in our hearts."

"Are you going down to see what it is he wants now?"

"No," I said, "I am no more interested than I was before. They are experienced people,--burglars;
they know what they want; I should be no help to him. I think he is after ceramics and bric-à-brac
and such things. If he knows the house he knows that that is all that he can find on the dining-room
floor."

She said, with a strong interest perceptible in her tone, "Suppose he comes up here!"

I said, "It is all right. He will give us notice."

"What shall we do then then?"

"Climb out of the window."

She said, a little restively, "Well, what is the use of a burglar-alarm for us?"

"You have seen, dear heart, that it has been useful up to the present moment, and I have explained
to you how it will be continuously useful after he gets up here."

That was the end of it. He didn't ring any more alarms. Presently I said,

"He is disappointed, I think. He has gone off with the vegetables and the bric-à-brac, and
I think he is dissatisfied."

We went to sleep, and at a quarter before eight in the morning I was out, and hurrying, for
I was to take the 8.29 train for New York. I found the gas burning brightly--full head--all
over the first floor. My new overcoat was gone; my old umbrella was gone; my new patent-leather
shoes, which I had never worn, were gone. The large window which opened into the ombra at the
rear of the house was standing wide. I passed out through it and tracked the burglar down the
hill through the trees; tracked him without difficulty, because he had blazed his progress
with imitation silver napkin-rings, and my umbrella, and various other things which he had
disapproved of; and I went back in triumph and proved to my wife that he was a disappointed
burglar. I had suspected he would be, from the start, and from his not coming up to our floor
to get human beings.

Things happened to me that day in New York. I will tell about them another time.

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa has a peculiar gait we like, it seems just to sute him, but
     most people do not; he always walks up and down the room while
     thinking and between each coarse at meals.

A lady distantly related to us came to visit us once in those days. She came to stay a week,
but all our efforts to make her happy failed, we could not imagine why, and she got up her
anchor and sailed the next morning. We did much guessing, but could not solve the mystery.
Later we found out what the trouble was. It was my tramping up and down between the courses.
She conceived the idea that I could not stand her society.

That word "Youth," as the reader has perhaps already guessed, was my wife's pet name for me.
It was gently satirical, but also affectionate. I had certain mental and material peculiarities
and customs proper to a much younger person than I was.

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa is very fond of animals particularly of cats, we had a dear
     little gray kitten once that he named "Lazy" (papa always wears
     gray to match his hair and eyes) and he would carry him around on
     his shoulder, it was a mighty pretty sight! the gray cat sound
     asleep against papa's gray coat and hair. The names that he has
     given our different cats, are realy remarkably funny, they are
     namely Stray Kit, Abner, Motley, Fraeulein, Lazy, Bufalo Bill,
     Cleveland, Sour Mash, and Pestilence and Famine.

At one time when the children were small, we had a very black mother-cat named Satan, and Satan
had a small black offspring named Sin. Pronouns were a difficulty for the children. Little
Clara came in one day, her black eyes snapping with indignation, and said,

"Papa, Satan ought to be punished. She is out there at the greenhouse and there she stays and
stays, and his kitten is down-stairs crying."

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa uses very strong language, but I have an idea not nearly so
     strong as when he first maried mamma. A lady acquaintance of his is
     rather apt to interupt what one is saying, and papa told mamma that
     he thought he should say to the lady's husband "I am glad your wife
     wasn't present when the Deity said 'Let there be light.'"

It is as I have said before. This is a frank historian. She doesn't cover up one's deficiencies,
but gives them an equal showing with one's handsomer qualities. Of course I made the remark
which she has quoted--and even at this distant day I am still as much as half persuaded that
if that lady had been present when the Creator said, "Let there be light," she would have interrupted
Him and we shouldn't ever have got it.

From Susy's Biography.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCII.

NOVEMBER 2, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--V.

BY MARK TWAIN.

Susy's remark about my strong language troubles me, and I must go back to it. All through the
first ten years of my married life I kept a constant and discreet watch upon my tongue while
in the house, and went outside and to a distance when circumstances were too much for me and
I was obliged to seek relief. I prized my wife's respect and approval above all the rest of
the human race's respect and approval. I dreaded the day when she should discover that I was
but a whited sepulchre partly freighted with suppressed language. I was so careful, during
ten years, that I had not a doubt that my suppressions had been successful. Therefore I was
quite as happy in my guilt as I could have been if I had been innocent.

But at last an accident exposed me. I went into the bath-room one morning to make my toilet,
and carelessly left the door two or three inches ajar. It was the first time that I had ever
failed to take the precaution of closing it tightly. I knew the necessity of being particular
about this, because shaving was always a trying ordeal for me, and I could seldom carry it
through to a finish without verbal helps. Now this time I was unprotected, but did not suspect
it. I had no extraordinary trouble with my razor on this occasion, and was able to worry through
with mere mutterings and growlings of an improper sort, but with nothing noisy or emphatic
about them--no snapping and barking. Then I put on a shirt. My shirts are an invention of my
own. They open in the back, and are buttoned there--when there are buttons. This time the button
was missing. My temper jumped up several degrees in a moment, and my remarks rose accordingly,
both in loudness and vigor of expression. But I was not troubled, for the bath-room door was
a solid one and I supposed it was firmly closed. I flung up the window and threw the shirt
out. It fell upon the shrubbery where the people on their way to church could admire it if
they wanted to; there was merely fifty feet of grass between the shirt and the passer-by. Still
rumbling and thundering distantly, I put on another shirt. Again the button was absent. I augmented
my language to meet the emergency, and threw that shirt out of the window. I was too angry--too
insane--to examine the third shirt, but put it furiously on. Again the button was absent, and
that shirt followed its comrades out of the window. Then I straightened up, gathered my reserves,
and let myself go like a cavalry charge. In the midst of that great assault, my eye fell upon
that gaping door, and I was paralyzed.

It took me a good while to finish my toilet. I extended the time unnecessarily in trying to
make up my mind as to what I would best do in the circumstances. I tried to hope that Mrs.
Clemens was asleep, but I knew better. I could not escape by the window. It was narrow, and
suited only to shirts. At last I made up my mind to boldly loaf through the bedroom with the
air of a person who had not been doing anything. I made half the journey successfully. I did
not turn my eyes in her direction, because that would not be safe. It is very difficult to
look as if you have not been doing anything when the facts are the other way, and my confidence
in my performance oozed steadily out of me as I went along. I was aiming for the left-hand
door because it was furthest from my wife. It had never been opened from the day that the house
was built, but it seemed a blessed refuge for me now. The bed was this one, wherein I am lying
now, and dictating these histories morning after morning with so much serenity. It was this
same old elaborately carved black Venetian bedstead--the most comfortable bedstead that ever
was, with space enough in it for a family, and carved angels enough surmounting its twisted
columns and its headboard and footboard to bring peace to the sleepers, and pleasant dreams.
I had to stop in the middle of the room. I hadn't the strength to go on. I believed that I
was under accusing eyes--that even the carved angels were inspecting me with an unfriendly
gaze. You know how it is when you are convinced that somebody behind you is looking steadily
at you. You have to turn your face--you can't help it. I turned mine. The bed was placed as
it is now, with the foot where the head ought to be. If it had been placed as it should have
been, the high headboard would have sheltered me. But the footboard was no sufficient protection,
for I could be seen over it. I was exposed. I was wholly without protection. I turned, because
I couldn't help it--and my memory of what I saw is still vivid, after all these years.

Against the white pillows I saw the black head--I saw that young and beautiful face; and I
saw the gracious eyes with a something in them which I had never seen there before. They were
snapping and flashing with indignation. I felt myself crumbling; I felt myself shrinking away
to nothing under that accusing gaze. I stood silent under that desolating fire for as much
as a minute, I should say--it seemed a very, very long time. Then my wife's lips parted, and
from them issued--my latest bath-room remark. The language perfect, but the expression velvety,
unpractical, apprenticelike, ignorant, inexperienced, comically inadequate, absurdly weak and
unsuited to the great language. In my lifetime I had never heard anything so out of tune, so
inharmonious, so incongruous, so ill-suited to each other as were those mighty words set to
that feeble music. I tried to keep from laughing, for I was a guilty person in deep need of
charity and mercy. I tried to keep from bursting, and I succeeded--until she gravely said,
"There, now you know how it sounds."

Then I exploded; the air was filled with my fragments, and you could hear them whiz. I said,
"Oh Livy, if it sounds like that I will never do it again!"

Then she had to laugh herself. Both of us broke into convulsions, and went on laughing until
we were physically exhausted and spiritually reconciled.

The children were present at breakfast--Clara aged six and Susy eight--and the mother made
a guarded remark about strong language; guarded because she did not wish the children to suspect
anything--a guarded remark which censured strong language. Both children broke out in one voice
with this comment, "Why, mamma, papa uses it!"

I was astonished. I had supposed that that secret was safe in my own breast, and that its presence
had never been suspected. I asked,

"How did you know, you little rascals?"

"Oh," they said, "we often listen over the balusters when you are in the hall explaining things
to George."

From Susy's Biography.

     One of papa's latest books is "The Prince and the Pauper" and it is
     unquestionably the best book he has ever written, some people want
     him to keep to his old style, some gentleman wrote him, "I enjoyed
     Huckleberry Finn immensely and am glad to see that you have
     returned to your old style." That enoyed me that enoyed me greatly,
     because it trobles me [Susy was troubled by that word, and
     uncertain; she wrote a u above it in the proper place, but
     reconsidered the matter and struck it out] to have so few people
     know papa, I mean realy know him, they think of Mark Twain as a
     humorist joking at everything; "And with a mop of reddish brown
     hair which sorely needs the barbars brush a roman nose, short
     stubby mustache, a sad care-worn face, with maney crow's feet" etc.
     That is the way people picture papa, I have wanted papa to write a
     book that would reveal something of his kind sympathetic nature,
     and "The Prince and the Pauper" partly does it. The book is full of
     lovely charming ideas, and oh the language! It is perfect. I
     think that one of the most touching scenes in it, is where the
     pauper is riding on horseback with his nobles in the "recognition
     procession" and he sees his mother oh and then what followed! How
     she runs to his side, when she sees him throw up his hand palm
     outward, and is rudely pushed off by one of the King's officers,
     and then how the little pauper's consceince troubles him when he
     remembers the shameful words that were falling from his lips, when
     she was turned from his side "I know you not woman" and how his
     grandeurs were stricken valueless, and his pride consumed to ashes.
     It is a wonderfully beautiful and touching little scene, and papa
     has described it so wonderfully. I never saw a man with so much
     variety of feeling as papa has; now the "Prince and the Pauper" is
     full of touching places; but there is most always a streak of humor
     in them somewhere. Now in the coronation--in the stirring
     coronation, just after the little king has got his crown back again
     papa brings that in about the Seal, where the pauper says he used
     the Seal "to crack nuts with." Oh it is so funny and nice! Papa
     very seldom writes a passage without some humor in it somewhere,
     and I dont think he ever will.

The children always helped their mother to edit my books in manuscript. She would sit on the
porch at the farm and read aloud, with her pencil in her hand, and the children would keep
an alert and suspicious eye upon her right along, for the belief was well grounded in them
that whenever she came across a particularly satisfactory passage she would strike it out.
Their suspicions were well founded. The passages which were so satisfactory to them always
had an element of strength in them which sorely needed modification or expurgation, and were
always sure to get it at their mother's hand. For my own entertainment, and to enjoy the protests
of the children, I often abused my editor's innocent confidence. I often interlarded remarks
of a studied and felicitously atrocious character purposely to achieve the children's brief
delight, and then see the remorseless pencil do its fatal work. I often joined my supplications
to the children's for mercy, and strung the argument out and pretended to be in earnest. They
were deceived, and so was their mother. It was three against one, and most unfair. But it was
very delightful, and I could not resist the temptation. Now and then we gained the victory
and there was much rejoicing. Then I privately struck the passage out myself. It had served
its purpose. It had furnished three of us with good entertainment, and in being removed from
the book by me it was only suffering the fate originally intended for it.

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa was born in Missouri. His mother is Grandma Clemens (Jane
     Lampton Clemens) of Kentucky. Grandpa Clemens was of the F.F.V's of
     Virginia.

Without doubt it was I that gave Susy that impression. I cannot imagine why, because I was
never in my life much impressed by grandeurs which proceed from the accident of birth. I did
not get this indifference from my mother. She was always strongly interested in the ancestry
of the house. She traced her own line back to the Lambtons of Durham, England--a family which
had been occupying broad lands there since Saxon times. I am not sure, but I think that those
Lambtons got along without titles of nobility for eight or nine hundred years, then produced
a great man, three-quarters of a century ago, and broke into the peerage. My mother knew all
about the Clemenses of Virginia, and loved to aggrandize them to me, but she has long been
dead. There has been no one to keep those details fresh in my memory, and they have grown dim.

There was a Jere. Clemens who was a United States Senator, and in his day enjoyed the usual
Senatorial fame--a fame which perishes whether it spring from four years' service or forty.
After Jere. Clemens's fame as a Senator passed away, he was still remembered for many years
on account of another service which he performed. He shot old John Brown's Governor Wise in
the hind leg in a duel. However, I am not very clear about this. It may be that Governor Wise
shot him in the hind leg. However, I don't think it is important. I think that the only thing
that is really important is that one of them got shot in the hind leg. It would have been better
and nobler and more historical and satisfactory if both of them had got shot in the hind leg--but
it is of no use for me to try to recollect history. I never had a historical mind. Let it go.
Whichever way it happened I am glad of it, and that is as much enthusiasm as I can get up for
a person bearing my name. But I am forgetting the first Clemens--the one that stands furthest
back toward the really original first Clemens, which was Adam.

From Susy's Biography.

     Clara and I are sure that papa played the trick on Grandma, about
     the whipping, that is related in "The Adventures of Tom Sayer":
     "Hand me that switch." The switch hovered in the air, the peril was
     desperate--"My, look behind you Aunt!" The old lady whirled around
     and snatched her skirts out of danger. The lad fled on the instant,
     scrambling up the high board fence and dissapeared over it.

Susy and Clara were quite right about that.

Then Susy says:

     And we know papa played "Hookey" all the time. And how readily
     would papa pretend to be dying so as not to have to go to school!

These revelations and exposures are searching, but they are just If I am as transparent to
other people as I was to Susy, I have wasted much effort in this life.

     Grandma couldn't make papa go to school, no she let him go into a
     printing-office to learn the trade. He did so, and gradually picked
     up enough education to enable him to do about as well as those who
     were more studious in early life.

It is noticeable that Susy does not get overheated when she is complimenting me, but maintains
a proper judicial and biographical calm. It is noticeable, also, and it is to her credit as
a biographer, that she distributes compliment and criticism with a fair and even hand.

My mother had a good deal of trouble with me, but I think she enjoyed it. She had none at all
with my brother Henry, who was two years younger than I, and I think that the unbroken monotony
of his goodness and truthfulness and obedience would have been a burden to her but for the
relief and variety which I furnished in the other direction. I was a tonic. I was valuable
to her. I never thought of it before, but now I see it. I never knew Henry to do a vicious
thing toward me, or toward any one else--but he frequently did righteous ones that cost me
as heavily. It was his duty to report me, when I needed reporting and neglected to do it myself,
and he was very faithful in discharging that duty. He is "Sid" in "Tom Sawyer." But Sid was
not Henry. Henry was a very much finer and better boy than ever Sid was.

It was Henry who called my mother's attention to the fact that the thread with which she had
sewed my collar together to keep me from going in swimming, had changed color. My mother would
not have discovered it but for that, and she was manifestly piqued when she recognized that
that prominent bit of circumstantial evidence had escaped her sharp eye. That detail probably
added a detail to my punishment. It is human. We generally visit our shortcomings on somebody
else when there is a possible excuse for it--but no matter, I took it out of Henry. There is
always compensation for such as are unjustly used. I often took it out of him--sometimes as
an advance payment for something which I hadn't yet done. These were occasions when the opportunity
was too strong a temptation, and I had to draw on the future. I did not need to copy this idea
from my mother, and probably didn't. Still she wrought upon that principle upon occasion.

If the incident of the broken sugar-bowl is in "Tom Sawyer"--I don't remember whether it is
or not--that is an example of it. Henry never stole sugar. He took it openly from the bowl.
His mother knew he wouldn't take sugar when she wasn't looking, but she had her doubts about
me. Not exactly doubts, either. She knew very well I would. One day when she was not present,
Henry took sugar from her prized and precious old English sugar-bowl, which was an heirloom
in the family--and he managed to break the bowl. It was the first time I had ever had a chance
to tell anything on him, and I was inexpressibly glad. I told him I was going to tell on him,
but he was not disturbed. When my mother came in and saw the bowl lying on the floor in fragments,
she was speechless for a minute. I allowed that silence to work; I judged it would increase
the effect. I was waiting for her to ask "Who did that?"--so that I could fetch out my news.
But it was an error of calculation. When she got through with her silence she didn't ask anything
about it--she merely gave me a crack on the skull with her thimble that I felt all the way
down to my heels. Then I broke out with my injured innocence, expecting to make her very sorry
that she had punished the wrong one. I expected her to do something remorseful and pathetic.
I told her that I was not the one--it was Henry. But there was no upheaval. She said, without
emotion, "It's all right. It isn't any matter. You deserve it for something you've done that
I didn't know about; and if you haven't done it, why then you deserve it for something that
you are going to do, that I sha'n't hear about."

There was a stairway outside the house, which led up to the rear part of the second story.
One day Henry was sent on an errand, and he took a tin bucket along. I knew he would have to
ascend those stairs, so I went up and locked the door on the inside, and came down into the
garden, which had been newly ploughed and was rich in choice firm clods of black mold. I gathered
a generous equipment of these, and ambushed him. I waited till he had climbed the stairs and
was near the landing and couldn't escape. Then I bombarded him with clods, which he warded
off with his tin bucket the best he could, but without much success, for I was a good marksman.
The clods smashing against the weather-boarding fetched my mother out to see what was the matter,
and I tried to explain that I was amusing Henry. Both of them were after me in a minute, but
I knew the way over that high board fence and escaped for that time. After an hour or two,
when I ventured back, there was no one around and I thought the incident was closed. But it
was not. Henry was ambushing me. With an unusually competent aim for him, he landed a stone
on the side of my head which raised a bump there that felt like the Matterhorn. I carried it
to my mother straightway for sympathy, but she was not strongly moved. It seemed to be her
idea that incidents like this would eventually reform me if I harvested enough of them. So
the matter was only educational. I had had a sterner view of it than that, before.

It was not right to give the cat the "Pain-Killer"; I realize it now. I would not repeat it
in these days. But in those "Tom Sawyer" days it was a great and sincere satisfaction to me
to see Peter perform under its influence--and if actions do speak as loud as words, he took
as much interest in it as I did. It was a most detestable medicine, Perry Davis's Pain-Killer.
Mr. Pavey's negro man, who was a person of good judgment and considerable curiosity, wanted
to sample it, and I let him. It was his opinion that it was made of hell-fire.

Those were the cholera days of '49. The people along the Mississippi were paralyzed with fright.
Those who could run away, did it. And many died of fright in the flight. Fright killed three
persons where the cholera killed one. Those who couldn't flee kept themselves drenched with
cholera preventives, and my mother chose Perry Davis's Pain-Killer for me. She was not distressed
about herself. She avoided that kind of preventive. But she made me promise to take a teaspoonful
of Pain-Killer every day. Originally it was my intention to keep the promise, but at that time
I didn't know as much about Pain-Killer as I knew after my first experiment with it. She didn't
watch Henry's bottle--she could trust Henry. But she marked my bottle with a pencil, on the
label, every day, and examined it to see if the teaspoonful had been removed. The floor was
not carpeted. It had cracks in it, and I fed the Pain-Killer to the cracks with very good results--no
cholera occurred down below.

It was upon one of these occasions that that friendly cat came waving his tail and supplicating
for Pain-Killer--which he got--and then went into those hysterics which ended with his colliding
with all the furniture in the room and finally going out of the open window and carrying the
flower-pots with him, just in time for my mother to arrive and look over her glasses in petrified
astonishment and say, "What in the world is the matter with Peter?"

I don't remember what my explanation was, but if it is recorded in that book it may not be
the right one.

Whenever my conduct was of such exaggerated impropriety that my mother's extemporary punishments
were inadequate, she saved the matter up for Sunday, and made me go to church Sunday night--which
was a penalty sometimes bearable, perhaps, but as a rule it was not, and I avoided it for the
sake of my constitution. She would never believe that I had been to church until she had applied
her test: she made me tell her what the text was. That was a simple matter, and caused me no
trouble. I didn't have to go to church to get a text. I selected one for myself. This worked
very well until one time when my text and the one furnished by a neighbor, who had been to
church, didn't tally. After that my mother took other methods. I don't know what they were now.

In those days men and boys wore rather long cloaks in the winter-time. They were black, and
were lined with very bright and showy Scotch plaids. One winter's night when I was starting
to church to square a crime of some kind committed during the week, I hid my cloak near the
gate and went off and played with the other boys until church was over. Then I returned home.
But in the dark I put the cloak on wrong side out, entered the room, threw the cloak aside,
and then stood the usual examination. I got along very well until the temperature of the church
was mentioned. My mother said,

"It must have been impossible to keep warm there on such a night."

I didn't see the art of that remark, and was foolish enough to explain that I wore my cloak
all the time that I was in church. She asked if I kept it on from church home, too. I didn't
see the bearing of that remark. I said that that was what I had done. She said,

"You wore it in church with that red Scotch plaid outside and glaring? Didn't that attract
any attention?"

Of course to continue such a dialogue would have been tedious and unprofitable, and I let it
go, and took the consequences.

That was about 1849. Tom Nash was a boy of my own age--the postmaster's son. The Mississippi
was frozen across, and he and I went skating one night, probably without permission. I cannot
see why we should go skating in the night unless without permission, for there could be no
considerable amusement to be gotten out of skating at night if nobody was going to object to
it. About midnight, when we were more than half a mile out toward the Illinois shore, we heard
some ominous rumbling and grinding and crashing going on between us and the home side of the
river, and we knew what it meant--the ice was breaking up. We started for home, pretty badly
scared. We flew along at full speed whenever the moonlight sifting down between the clouds
enabled us to tell which was ice and which was water. In the pauses we waited; started again
whenever there was a good bridge of ice; paused again when we came to naked water and waited
in distress until a floating vast cake should bridge that place. It took us an hour to make
the trip--a trip which we made in a misery of apprehension all the time. But at last we arrived
within a very brief distance of the shore. We waited again; there was another place that needed
bridging. All about us the ice was plunging and grinding along and piling itself up in mountains
on the shore, and the dangers were increasing, not diminishing. We grew very impatient to get
to solid ground, so we started too early and went springing from cake to cake. Tom made a miscalculation,
and fell short. He got a bitter bath, but he was so close to shore that he only had to swim
a stroke or two--then his feet struck hard bottom and he crawled out. I arrived a little later,
without accident. We had been in a drenching perspiration, and Tom's bath was a disaster for
him. He took to his bed sick, and had a procession of diseases. The closing one was scarlet-fever,
and he came out of it stone deaf. Within a year or two speech departed, of course. But some
years later he was taught to talk, after a fashion--one couldn't always make out what it was
he was trying to say. Of course he could not modulate his voice, since he couldn't hear himself
talk. When he supposed he was talking low and confidentially, you could hear him in Illinois.

Four years ago (1902) I was invited by the University of Missouri to come out there and receive
the honorary degree of LL.D. I took that opportunity to spend a week in Hannibal--a city now,
a village in my day. It had been fifty-three years since Tom Nash and I had had that adventure.
When I was at the railway station ready to leave Hannibal, there was a crowd of citizens there.
I saw Tom Nash approaching me across a vacant space, and I walked toward him, for I recognized
him at once. He was old and white-headed, but the boy of fifteen was still visible in him.
He came up to me, made a trumpet of his hands at my ear, nodded his head toward the citizens
and said confidentially--in a yell like a fog-horn--

"Same damned fools, Sam!"

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa was about twenty years old when he went on the Mississippi as
     a pilot. Just before he started on his tripp Grandma Clemens asked
     him to promise her on the Bible not to touch intoxicating liquors
     or swear, and he said "Yes, mother, I will," and he kept that
     promise seven years when Grandma released him from it.

Under the inspiring influence of that remark, what a garden of forgotten reforms rises upon
my sight!

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCIII.

NOVEMBER 16, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--VI.

BY MARK TWAIN.

From Susy's Biography.

     Papa made arrangements to read at Vassar College the 1st of May,
     and I went with him. We went by way of New York City. Mamma went
     with us to New York and stayed two days to do some shopping. We
     started Tuesday, at 1/2 past two o'clock in the afternoon, and
     reached New York about 1/4 past six. Papa went right up to General
     Grants from the station and mamma and I went to the Everett House.
     Aunt Clara came to supper with us up in our room....

     We and Aunt Clara were going were going to the theatre right after
     supper, and we expected papa to take us there and to come home as
     early as he could. But we got through dinner and he didn't come,
     and didn't come, and mamma got more perplexed and worried, but at
     last we thought we would have to go without him. So we put on our
     things and started down stairs but before we'd goten half down we
     met papa coming up with a great bunch of roses in his hand. He
     explained that the reason he was so late was that his watch stopped
     and he didn't notice and kept thinking it an hour earlier than it
     really was. The roses he carried were some Col. Fred Grant sent to
     mamma. We went to the theatre and enjoyed "Adonis" [word illegible]
     acted very much. We reached home about 1/2 past eleven o'clock and
     went right to bed. Wednesday morning we got up rather late and had
     breakfast about 1/2 past nine o'clock. After breakfast mamma went
     out shopping and papa and I went to see papa's agent about some
     business matters. After papa had gotten through talking to Cousin
     Charlie, [Webster] papa's agent, we went to get a friend of papa's,
     Major Pond, to go and see a Dog Show with us. Then we went to see
     the dogs with Major Pond and we had a delightful time seeing so
     many dogs together; when we got through seeing the dogs papa
     thought he would go and see General Grant and I went with him--this
     was April 29, 1885. Papa went up into General Grant's room and he
     took me with him, I felt greatly honored and delighted when papa
     took me into General Grant's room and let me see the General and
     Col. Grant, for General Grant is a man I shall be glad all my life
     that I have seen. Papa and General Grant had a long talk together
     and papa has written an account of his talk and visit with General
     Grant for me to put into this biography.

Susy has inserted in this place that account of mine--as follows:

                                                    April 29, 1885.

     I called on General Grant and took Susy with me. The General was
     looking and feeling far better than he had looked or felt for some
     months. He had ventured to work again on his book that morning--the
     first time he had done any work for perhaps a month. This morning's
     work was his first attempt at dictating, and it was a thorough
     success, to his great delight. He had always said that it would be
     impossible for him to dictate anything, but I had said that he was
     noted for clearness of statement, and as a narrative was simply a
     statement of consecutive facts, he was consequently peculiarly
     qualified and equipped for dictation. This turned out to be true.
     For he had dictated two hours that morning to a shorthand writer,
     had never hesitated for words, had not repeated himself, and the
     manuscript when finished needed no revision. The two hours' work
     was an account of Appomattox--and this was such an extremely
     important feature that his book would necessarily have been
     severely lame without it. Therefore I had taken a shorthand writer
     there before, to see if I could not get him to write at least a few
     lines about Appomattox.[5] But he was at that time not well enough
     to undertake it. I was aware that of all the hundred versions of
     Appomattox, not one was really correct. Therefore I was extremely
     anxious that he should leave behind him the truth. His throat was
     not distressing him, and his voice was much better and stronger
     than usual. He was so delighted to have gotten Appomattox
     accomplished once more in his life--to have gotten the matter off
     his mind--that he was as talkative as his old self. He received
     Susy very pleasantly, and then fell to talking about certain
     matters which he hoped to be able to dictate next day; and he said
     in substance that, among other things, he wanted to settle once for
     all a question that had been bandied about from mouth to mouth and
     from newspaper to newspaper. That question was, "With whom
     originated the idea of the march to the sea? Was it Grant's, or was
     it Sherman's idea?" Whether I, or some one else (being anxious to
     get the important fact settled) asked him with whom the idea
     originated, I don't remember. But I remember his answer. I shall
     always remember his answer. General Grant said:

     "Neither of us originated the idea of Sherman's march to the sea.
     The enemy did it."

     He went on to say that the enemy, however, necessarily originated a
     great many of the plans that the general on the opposite side gets
     the credit for; at the same time that the enemy is doing that, he
     is laying open other moves which the opposing general sees and
     takes advantage of. In this case, Sherman had a plan all thought
     out, of course. He meant to destroy the two remaining railroads in
     that part of the country, and that would finish up that region. But
     General Hood did not play the military part that he was expected to
     play. On the contrary, General Hood made a dive at Chattanooga.
     This left the march to the sea open to Sherman, and so after
     sending part of his army to defend and hold what he had acquired in
     the Chattanooga region, he was perfectly free to proceed, with the
     rest of it, through Georgia. He saw the opportunity, and he would
     not have been fit for his place if he had not seized it.

     "He wrote me" (the General is speaking) "what his plan was, and I
     sent him word to go ahead. My staff were opposed to the movement."
     (I think the General said they tried to persuade him to stop
     Sherman. The chief of his staff, the General said, even went so far
     as to go to Washington without the General's knowledge and get the
     ear of the authorities, and he succeeded in arousing their fears to
     such an extent that they telegraphed General Grant to stop
     Sherman.)

     Then General Grant said, "Out of deference to the Government, I
     telegraphed Sherman and stopped him twenty-four hours; and then
     considering that that was deference enough to the Government, I
     telegraphed him to go ahead again."

     I have not tried to give the General's language, but only the
     general idea of what he said. The thing that mainly struck me was
     his terse remark that the enemy originated the idea of the march to
     the sea. It struck me because it was so suggestive of the General's
     epigrammatic fashion--saying a great deal in a single crisp
     sentence. (This is my account, and signed "Mark Twain.")

Susy Resumes.

     After papa and General Grant had had their talk, we went back to
     the hotel where mamma was, and papa told mamma all about his
     interview with General Grant. Mamma and I had a nice quiet
     afternoon together.

That pair of devoted comrades were always shutting themselves up together when there was opportunity
to have what Susy called "a cozy time." From Susy's nursery days to the end of her life, she
and her mother were close friends; intimate friends, passionate adorers of each other. Susy's
was a beautiful mind, and it made her an interesting comrade. And with the fine mind she had
a heart like her mother's. Susy never had an interest or an occupation which she was not glad
to put aside for that something which was in all cases more precious to her--a visit with her
mother. Susy died at the right time, the fortunate time of life; the happy age--twenty-four
years. At twenty-four, such a girl has seen the best of life--life as a happy dream. After
that age the risks begin; responsibility comes, and with it the cares, the sorrows, and the
inevitable tragedy. For her mother's sake I would have brought her back from the grave if I
could, but I would not have done it for my own.

From Susy's Biography.

     Then papa went to read in public; there were a great many authors
     that read, that Thursday afternoon, beside papa; I would have liked
     to have gone and heard papa read, but papa said he was going to
     read in Vassar just what he was planning to read in New York, so I
     stayed at home with mamma.

     The next day mamma planned to take the four o'clock car back to
     Hartford. We rose quite early that morning and went to the Vienna
     Bakery and took breakfast there. From there we went to a German
     bookstore and bought some German books for Clara's birthday.

Dear me, the power of association to snatch mouldy dead memories out of their graves and make
them walk! That remark about buying foreign books throws a sudden white glare upon the distant
past; and I see the long stretch of a New York street with an unearthly vividness, and John
Hay walking down it, grave and remorseful. I was walking down it too, that morning, and I overtook
Hay and asked him what the trouble was. He turned a lustreless eye upon me and said:

"My case is beyond cure. In the most innocent way in the world I have committed a crime which
will never be forgiven by the sufferers, for they will never believe--oh, well, no, I was going
to say they would never believe that I did the thing innocently. The truth is they will know
that I acted innocently, because they are rational people; but what of that? I never can look
them in the face again--nor they me, perhaps."

Hay was a young bachelor, and at that time was on the "Tribune" staff. He explained his trouble
in these words, substantially:

"When I was passing along here yesterday morning on my way down-town to the office, I stepped
into a bookstore where I am acquainted, and asked if they had anything new from the other side.
They handed me a French novel, in the usual yellow paper cover, and I carried it away. I didn't
even look at the title of it. It was for recreation reading, and I was on my way to my work.
I went mooning and dreaming along, and I think I hadn't gone more than fifty yards when I heard
my name called. I stopped, and a private carriage drew up at the sidewalk and I shook hands
with the inmates--mother and young daughter, excellent people. They were on their way to the
steamer to sail for Paris. The mother said,

"'I saw that book in your hand and I judged by the look of it that it was a French novel. Is it?'

"I said it was.

"She said, 'Do let me have it, so that my daughter can practise her French on it on the way over.'

"Of course I handed her the book, and we parted. Ten minutes ago I was passing that bookstore
again, and I stepped in and fetched away another copy of that book. Here it is. Read the first
page of it. That is enough. You will know what the rest is like. I think it must be the foulest
book in the French language--one of the foulest, anyway. I would be ashamed to offer it to
a harlot--but, oh dear, I gave it to that sweet young girl without shame. Take my advice; don't
give away a book until you have examined it."

From Susy's Biography.

     Then mamma and I went to do some shopping and papa went to see
     General Grant. After we had finnished doing our shopping we went
     home to the hotel together. When we entered our rooms in the hotel
     we saw on the table a vase full of exquisett red roses. Mamma who
     is very fond of flowers exclaimed "Oh I wonder who could have sent
     them." We both looked at the card in the midst of the roses and saw
     that it was written on in papa's handwriting, it was written in
     German. 'Liebes Geshchenk on die mamma.' [I am sure I didn't say
     "on"--that is Susy's spelling, not mine; also I am sure I didn't
     spell Geschenk so liberally as all that.--S. L. C.] Mamma was
     delighted. Papa came home and gave mamma her ticket; and after
     visiting a while with her went to see Major Pond and mamma and I
     sat down to our lunch. After lunch most of our time was taken up
     with packing, and at about three o'clock we went to escort mamma to
     the train. We got on board the train with her and stayed with her
     about five minutes and then we said good-bye to her and the train
     started for Hartford. It was the first time I had ever beene away
     from home without mamma in my life, although I was 13 yrs. old.
     Papa and I drove back to the hotel and got Major Pond and then went
     to see the Brooklyn Bridge we went across it to Brooklyn on the
     cars and then walked back across it from Brooklyn to New York. We
     enjoyed looking at the beautiful scenery and we could see the
     bridge moove under the intense heat of the sun. We had a perfectly
     delightful time, but weer pretty tired when we got back to the
     hotel.

     The next morning we rose early, took our breakfast and took an
     early train to Poughkeepsie. We had a very pleasant journey to
     Poughkeepsie. The Hudson was magnificent--shrouded with beautiful
     mist. When we arived at Poughkeepsie it was raining quite hard;
     which fact greatly dissapointed me because I very much wanted to
     see the outside of the buildings of Vassar College and as it rained
     that would be impossible. It was quite a long drive from the
     station to Vasser College and papa and I had a nice long time to
     discuss and laugh over German profanity. One of the German phrases
     papa particularly enjoys is "O heilige maria Mutter Jesus!" Jean
     has a German nurse, and this was one of her phrases, there was a
     time when Jean exclaimed "Ach Gott!" to every trifle, but when
     mamma found it out she was shocked and instantly put a stop to it.

It brings that pretty little German girl vividly before me--a sweet and innocent and plump
little creature with peachy cheeks; a clear-souled little maiden and without offence, notwithstanding
her profanities, and she was loaded to the eyebrows with them. She was a mere child. She was
not fifteen yet. She was just from Germany, and knew no English. She was always scattering
her profanities around, and they were such a satisfaction to me that I never dreamed of such
a thing as modifying her. For my own sake, I had no disposition to tell on her. Indeed I took
pains to keep her from being found out. I told her to confine her religious exercises to the
children's quarters, and urged her to remember that Mrs. Clemens was prejudiced against pieties
on week-days. To the children, the little maid's profanities sounded natural and proper and
right, because they had been used to that kind of talk in Germany, and they attached no evil
importance to it. It grieves me that I have forgotten those vigorous remarks. I long hoarded
them in my memory as a treasure. But I remember one of them still, because I heard it so many
times. The trial of that little creature's life was the children's hair. She would tug and
strain with her comb, accompanying her work with her misplaced pieties. And when finally she
was through with her triple job she always fired up and exploded her thanks toward the sky,
where they belonged, in this form: "Gott sei Dank ich bin fertig mit'm Gott verdammtes Haar!"
(I believe I am not quite brave enough to translate it.)

From Susy's Biography.

     We at length reached Vassar College and she looked very finely, her
     buildings and her grounds being very beautiful. We went to the
     front doore and range the bell. The young girl who came to the
     doore wished to know who we wanted to see. Evidently we were not
     expected. Papa told her who we wanted to see and she showed us to
     the parlor. We waited, no one came; and waited, no one came, still
     no one came. It was beginning to seem pretty awkward, "Oh well this
     is a pretty piece of business," papa exclaimed. At length we heard
     footsteps coming down the long corridor and Miss C, (the lady who
     had invited papa) came into the room. She greeted papa very
     pleasantly and they had a nice little chatt together. Soon the lady
     principal also entered and she was very pleasant and agreable. She
     showed us to our rooms and said she would send for us when dinner
     was ready. We went into our rooms, but we had nothing to do for
     half an hour exept to watch the rain drops as they fell upon the
     window panes. At last we were called to dinner, and I went down
     without papa as he never eats anything in the middle of the day. I
     sat at the table with the lady principal and enjoyed very much
     seeing all the young girls trooping into the dining-room. After
     dinner I went around the College with the young ladies and papa
     stayed in his room and smoked. When it was supper time papa went
     down and ate supper with us and we had a very delightful supper.
     After supper the young ladies went to their rooms to dress for the
     evening. Papa went to his room and I went with the lady principal.
     At length the guests began to arive, but papa still remained in his
     room until called for. Papa read in the chapell. It was the first
     time I had ever heard him read in my life--that is in public. When
     he came out on to the stage I remember the people behind me
     exclaimed "Oh how queer he is! Isn't he funny!" I thought papa was
     very funny, although I did not think him queer. He read "A Trying
     Situation" and "The Golden Arm," a ghost story that he heard down
     South when he was a little boy. "The Golden Arm" papa had told me
     before, but he had startled me so that I did not much wish to hear
     it again. But I had resolved this time to be prepared and not to
     let myself be startled, but still papa did, and very very much; he
     startled the whole roomful of people and they jumped as one man.
     The other story was also very funny and interesting and I enjoyed
     the evening inexpressibly much. After papa had finished reading we
     all went down to the collation in the dining-room and after that
     there was dancing and singing. Then the guests went away and papa
     and I went to bed. The next morning we rose early, took an early
     train for Hartford and reached Hartford at 1/2 past 2 o'clock. We
     were very glad to get back.

How charitably she treats that ghastly experience! It is a dear and lovely disposition, and
a most valuable one, that can brush away indignities and discourtesies and seek and find the
pleasanter features of an experience. Susy had that disposition, and it was one of the jewels
of her character that had come to her straight from her mother. It is a feature that was left
out of me at birth. And, at seventy, I have not yet acquired it. I did not go to Vassar College
professionally, but as a guest--as a guest, and gratis. Aunt Clara (now Mrs. John B. Stanchfield)
was a graduate of Vassar and it was to please her that I inflicted that journey upon Susy and
myself. The invitation had come to me from both the lady mentioned by Susy and the President
of the College--a sour old saint who has probably been gathered to his fathers long ago; and
I hope they enjoy him; I hope they value his society. I think I can get along without it, in
either end of the next world.

We arrived at the College in that soaking rain, and Susy has described, with just a suggestion
of dissatisfaction, the sort of reception we got. Susy had to sit in her damp clothes half
an hour while we waited in the parlor; then she was taken to a fireless room and left to wait
there again, as she has stated. I do not remember that President's name, and I am sorry. He
did not put in an appearance until it was time for me to step upon the platform in front of
that great garden of young and lovely blossoms. He caught up with me and advanced upon the
platform with me and was going to introduce me. I said in substance:

"You have allowed me to get along without your help thus far, and if you will retire from the
platform I will try to do the rest without it."

I did not see him any more, but I detest his memory. Of course my resentment did not extend
to the students, and so I had an unforgettable good time talking to them. And I think they
had a good time too, for they responded "as one man," to use Susy's unimprovable phrase.

Girls are charming creatures. I shall have to be twice seventy years old before I change my
mind as to that. I am to talk to a crowd of them this afternoon, students of Barnard College
(the sex's annex to Columbia University), and I think I shall have as pleasant a time with
those lasses as I had with the Vassar girls twenty-one years ago.

From Susy's Biography.

     I stopped in the middle of mamma's early history to tell about our
     tripp to Vassar because I was afraid I would forget about it, now I
     will go on where I left off. Some time after Miss Emma Nigh died
     papa took mamma and little Langdon to Elmira for the summer. When
     in Elmira Langdon began to fail but I think mamma did not know just
     what was the matter with him.

I was the cause of the child's illness. His mother trusted him to my care and I took him a
long drive in an open barouche for an airing. It was a raw, cold morning, but he was well wrapped
about with furs and, in the hands of a careful person, no harm would have come to him. But
I soon dropped into a reverie and forgot all about my charge. The furs fell away and exposed
his bare legs. By and by the coachman noticed this, and I arranged the wraps again, but it
was too late. The child was almost frozen. I hurried home with him. I was aghast at what I
had done, and I feared the consequences. I have always felt shame for that treacherous morning's
work and have not allowed myself to think of it when I could help it. I doubt if I had the
courage to make confession at that time. I think it most likely that I have never confessed
until now.

From Susy's Biography.

     At last it was time for papa to return to Hartford, and Langdon was
     real sick at that time, but still mamma decided to go with him,
     thinking the journey might do him good. But after they reached
     Hartford he became very sick, and his trouble prooved to be
     diptheeria. He died about a week after mamma and papa reached
     Hartford. He was burried by the side of grandpa at Elmira, New
     York. [Susy rests there with them.--S. L. C.] After that, mamma
     became very very ill, so ill that there seemed great danger of
     death, but with a great deal of good care she recovered. Some
     months afterward mamma and papa [and Susy, who was perhaps fourteen
     or fifteen months old at the time.--S. L. C.] went to Europe and
     stayed for a time in Scotland and England. In Scotland mamma and
     papa became very well equanted with Dr. John Brown, the author of
     "Rab and His Friends," and he mett, but was not so well equanted
     with, Mr. Charles Kingsley, Mr. Henry M. Stanley, Sir Thomas Hardy
     grandson of the Captain Hardy to whom Nellson said "Kiss me Hardy,"
     when dying on shipboard, Mr. Henry Irving, Robert Browning, Sir
     Charles Dilke, Mr. Charles Reade, Mr. William Black, Lord Houghton,
     Frank Buckland, Mr. Tom Hughes, Anthony Trollope, Tom Hood, son of
     the poet--and mamma and papa were quite well equanted with Dr.
     Macdonald and family, and papa met Harrison Ainsworth.

I remember all these men very well indeed, except the last one. I do not recall Ainsworth.
By my count, Susy mentions fourteen men. They are all dead except Sir Charles Dilke.

We met a great many other interesting people, among them Lewis Carroll, author of the immortal
"Alice"--but he was only interesting to look at, for he was the stillest and shyest full-grown
man I have ever met except "Uncle Remus." His answers were brief. I do not remember that he
elaborated any of them.

At a dinner at Smalley's we met Herbert Spencer. At a large luncheon party at Lord Houghton's
we met Sir Arthur Helps, who was a celebrity of world-wide fame at the time, but is quite forgotten
now.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTE:

[5] I was his publisher. I was putting his "Personal Memoirs" to press at the time.--S. L. C.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCIV.

DECEMBER 7, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--VII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

I was always heedless. I was born heedless; and therefore I was constantly, and quite unconsciously,
committing breaches of the minor proprieties, which brought upon me humiliations which ought
to have humiliated me but didn't, because I didn't know anything had happened. But Livy knew;
and so the humiliations fell to her share, poor child, who had not earned them and did not
deserve them. She always said I was the most difficult child she had. She was very sensitive
about me. It distressed her to see me do heedless things which could bring me under criticism,
and so she was always watchful and alert to protect me from the kind of transgressions which
I have been speaking of.

When I was leaving Hartford for Washington, upon the occasion referred to, she said: "I have
written a small warning and put it in a pocket of your dress-vest. When you are dressing to
go to the Authors' Reception at the White House you will naturally put your fingers in your
vest pockets, according to your custom, and you will find that little note there. Read it carefully,
and do as it tells you. I cannot be with you, and so I delegate my sentry duties to this little
note. If I should give you the warning by word of mouth, now, it would pass from your head
and be forgotten in a few minutes."

It was President Cleveland's first term. I had never seen his wife--the young, the beautiful,
the good-hearted, the sympathetic, the fascinating. Sure enough, just as I had finished dressing
to go to the White House I found that little note, which I had long ago forgotten. It was a
grave little note, a serious little note, like its writer, but it made me laugh. Livy's gentle
gravities often produced that effect upon me, where the expert humorist's best joke would have
failed, for I do not laugh easily.

When we reached the White House and I was shaking hands with the President, he started to say
something, but I interrupted him and said:

"If your Excellency will excuse me, I will come back in a moment; but now I have a very important
matter to attend to, and it must be attended to at once."

I turned to Mrs. Cleveland, the young, the beautiful, the fascinating, and gave her my card,
on the back of which I had written "He didn't"--and I asked her to sign her name below those words.

She said: "He didn't? He didn't what?"

"Oh," I said, "never mind. We cannot stop to discuss that now. This is urgent. Won't you please
sign your name?" (I handed her a fountain-pen.)

"Why," she said, "I cannot commit myself in that way. Who is it that didn't?--and what is it
that he didn't?"

"Oh," I said, "time is flying, flying, flying. Won't you take me out of my distress and sign
your name to it? It's all right. I give you my word it's all right."

She looked nonplussed; but hesitatingly and mechanically she took the pen and said:

"I will sign it. I will take the risk. But you must tell me all about it, right afterward,
so that you can be arrested before you get out of the house in case there should be anything
criminal about this."

Then she signed; and I handed her Mrs. Clements's note, which was very brief, very simple,
and to the point. It said: "Don't wear your arctics in the White House." It made her shout;
and at my request she summoned a messenger and we sent that card at once to the mail on its
way to Mrs. Clemens in Hartford.

When the little Ruth was about a year or a year and a half old, Mason, an old and valued friend
of mine, was consul-general at Frankfort-on-the-Main. I had known him well in 1867, '68 and
'69, in America, and I and mine had spent a good deal of time with him and his family in Frankfort
in '78. He was a thoroughly competent, diligent, and conscientious official. Indeed he possessed
these qualities in so large a degree that among American consuls he might fairly be said to
be monumental, for at that time our consular service was largely--and I think I may say mainly--in
the hands of ignorant, vulgar, and incapable men who had been political heelers in America,
and had been taken care of by transference to consulates where they could be supported at the
Government's expense instead of being transferred to the poor house, which would have been
cheaper and more patriotic. Mason, in '78, had been consul-general in Frankfort several years--four,
I think. He had come from Marseilles with a great record. He had been consul there during thirteen
years, and one part of his record was heroic. There had been a desolating cholera epidemic,
and Mason was the only representative of any foreign country who stayed at his post and saw
it through. And during that time he not only represented his own country, but he represented
all the other countries in Christendom and did their work, and did it well and was praised
for it by them in words of no uncertain sound. This great record of Mason's had saved him from
official decapitation straight along while Republican Presidents occupied the chair, but now
it was occupied by a Democrat. Mr. Cleveland was not seated in it--he was not yet inaugurated--before
he was deluged with applications from Democratic politicians desiring the appointment of a
thousand or so politically useful Democrats to Mason's place. A year or two later Mason wrote
me and asked me if I couldn't do something to save him from destruction.

I was very anxious to keep him in his place, but at first I could not think of any way to help
him, for I was a mugwump. We, the mugwumps, a little company made up of the unenslaved of both
parties, the very best men to be found in the two great parties--that was our idea of it--voted
sixty thousand strong for Mr. Cleveland in New York and elected him. Our principles were high,
and very definite. We were not a party; we had no candidates; we had no axes to grind. Our
vote laid upon the man we cast it for no obligation of any kind. By our rule we could not ask
for office; we could not accept office. When voting, it was our duty to vote for the best man,
regardless of his party name. We had no other creed. Vote for the best man--that was creed enough.

Such being my situation, I was puzzled to know how to try to help Mason, and, at the same time,
save my mugwump purity undefiled. It was a delicate place. But presently, out of the ruck of
confusions in my mind, rose a sane thought, clear and bright--to wit: since it was a mugwump's
duty to do his best to put the beet man in office, necessarily it must be a mugwump's duty
to try to keep the best man in when he was already there. My course was easy now. It might
not be quite delicate for a mugwump to approach the President directly, but I could approach
him indirectly, with all delicacy, since in that case not even courtesy would require him to
take notice of an application which no one could prove had ever reached him.

Yes, it was easy and simple sailing now. I could lay the matter before Ruth, in her cradle,
and wait for results. I wrote the little child, and said to her all that I have just been saying
about mugwump principles and the limitations which they put upon me. I explained that it would
not be proper for me to apply to her father in Mr. Mason's behalf, but I detailed to her Mr.
Mason's high and honorable record and suggested that she take the matter in her own hands and
do a patriotic work which I felt some delicacy about venturing upon myself. I asked her to
forget that her father was only President of the United States, and her subject and servant;
I asked her not to put her application in the form of a command, but to modify it, and give
it the fictitious and pleasanter form of a mere request--that it would be no harm to let him
gratify himself with the superstition that he was independent and could do as he pleased in
the matter. I begged her to put stress, and plenty of it, upon the proposition that to keep
Mason in his place would be a benefaction to the nation; to enlarge upon that, and keep still
about all other considerations.

In due time I received a letter from the President, written with his own hand, signed by his
own hand, acknowledging Ruth's intervention and thanking me for enabling him to save to the
country the services of so good and well-tried a servant as Mason, and thanking me, also, for
the detailed fulness of Mason's record, which could leave no doubt in any one's mind that Mason
was in his right place and ought to be kept there. Mason has remained in the service ever since,
and is now consul-general at Paris.

During the time that we were living in Buffalo in '70-'71, Mr. Cleveland was sheriff, but I
never happened to make his acquaintance, or even see him. In fact, I suppose I was not even
aware of his existence. Fourteen years later, he was become the greatest man in the State.
I was not living in the State at the time. He was Governor, and was about to step into the
post of President of the United States. At that time I was on the public highway in company
with another bandit, George W. Cable. We were robbing the public with readings from our works
during four months--and in the course of time we went to Albany to levy tribute, and I said,
"We ought to go and pay our respects to the Governor."

So Cable and I went to that majestic Capitol building and stated our errand. We were shown
into the Governor's private office, and I saw Mr. Cleveland for the first time. We three stood
chatting together. I was born lazy, and I comforted myself by turning the corner of a table
into a sort of seat. Presently the Governor said:

"Mr. Clemens, I was a fellow citizen of yours in Buffalo a good many months, a good while ago,
and during those months you burst suddenly into a mighty fame, out of a previous long-continued
and no doubt proper obscurity--but I was a nobody, and you wouldn't notice me nor have anything
to do with me. But now that I have become somebody, you have changed your style, and you come
here to shake hands with me and be sociable. How do you explain this kind of conduct?"

"Oh," I said, "it is very simple, your Excellency. In Buffalo you were nothing but a sheriff.
I was in society. I couldn't afford to associate with sheriffs. But you are a Governor now,
and you are on your way to the Presidency. It is a great difference, and it makes you worth while."

There appeared to be about sixteen doors to that spacious room. From each door a young man
now emerged, and the sixteen lined up and moved forward and stood in front of the Governor
with an aspect of respectful expectancy in their attitude. No one spoke for a moment. Then
the Governor said:

"You are dismissed, gentlemen. Your services are not required. Mr. Clemens is sitting on the
bells."

There was a cluster of sixteen bell buttons on the corner of the table; my proportions at that
end of me were just right to enable me to cover the whole of that nest, and that is how I came
to hatch out those sixteen clerks.

In accordance with the suggestion made in Gilder's letter recently received I have written
the following note to ex-President Cleveland upon his sixty-ninth birthday:

     HONORED SIR:--

     Your patriotic virtues have won for you the homage of half the
     nation and the enmity of the other half. This places your character
     as a citizen upon a summit as high as Washington's. The verdict is
     unanimous and unassailable. The votes of both sides are necessary
     in cases like these, and the votes of the one side are quite as
     valuable as are the votes of the other. Where the votes are all in
     a man's favor the verdict is against him. It is sand, and history
     will wash it away. But the verdict for you is rock, and will stand.

                                                       S. L. CLEMENS.

        As of date March 18, 1906....

In a diary which Mrs. Clemens kept for a little while, a great many years ago, I find various
mentions of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, who was a near neighbor of ours in Hartford, with no
fences between. And in those days she made as much use of our grounds as of her own, in pleasant
weather. Her mind had decayed, and she was a pathetic figure. She wandered about all the day
long in the care of a muscular Irishwoman. Among the colonists of our neighborhood the doors
always stood open in pleasant weather. Mrs. Stowe entered them at her own free will, and as
she was always softly slippered and generally full of animal spirits, she was able to deal
in surprises, and she liked to do it. She would slip up behind a person who was deep in dreams
and musings and fetch a war-whoop that would jump that person out of his clothes. And she had
other moods. Sometimes we would hear gentle music in the drawing-room and would find her there
at the piano singing ancient and melancholy songs with infinitely touching effect.

Her husband, old Professor Stowe, was a picturesque figure. He wore a broad slouch hat. He
was a large man, and solemn. His beard was white and thick and hung far down on his breast.
The first time our little Susy ever saw him she encountered him on the street near our house
and came flying wide-eyed to her mother and said, "Santa Claus has got loose!"

Which reminds me of Rev. Charley Stowe's little boy--a little boy of seven years. I met Rev.
Charley crossing his mother's grounds one morning and he told me this little tale. He had been
out to Chicago to attend a Convention of Congregational clergymen, and had taken his little
boy with him. During the trip he reminded the little chap, every now and then, that he must
be on his very best behavior there in Chicago. He said: "We shall be the guests of a clergyman,
there will be other guests--clergymen and their wives--and you must be careful to let those
people see by your walk and conversation that you are of a godly household. Be very careful
about this." The admonition bore fruit. At the first breakfast which they ate in the Chicago
clergyman's house he heard his little son say in the meekest and most reverent way to the lady
opposite him,

"Please, won't you, for Christ's sake, pass the butter?"

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCV.

DECEMBER 21, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--VIII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1864.)]

[Dictated in 1906.] In those early days duelling suddenly became a fashion in the new Territory
of Nevada, and by 1864 everybody was anxious to have a chance in the new sport, mainly for
the reason that he was not able to thoroughly respect himself so long as he had not killed
or crippled somebody in a duel or been killed or crippled in one himself.

At that time I had been serving as city editor on Mr. Goodman's Virginia City "Enterprise"
for a matter of two years. I was twenty-nine years old. I was ambitious in several ways, but
I had entirely escaped the seductions of that particular craze. I had had no desire to fight
a duel; I had no intention of provoking one. I did not feel respectable, but I got a certain
amount of satisfaction out of feeling safe. I was ashamed of myself; the rest of the staff
were ashamed of me--but I got along well enough. I had always been accustomed to feeling ashamed
of myself, for one thing or another, so there was no novelty for me in the situation. I bore
it very well. Plunkett was on the staff; R. M. Daggett was on the staff. These had tried to
get into duels, but for the present had failed, and were waiting. Goodman was the only one
of us who had done anything to shed credit upon the paper. The rival paper was the Virginia
"Union." Its editor for a little while was Tom Fitch, called the "silver-tongued orator of
Wisconsin"--that was where he came from. He tuned up his oratory in the editorial columns of
the "Union," and Mr. Goodman invited him out and modified him with a bullet. I remember the
joy of the staff when Goodman's challenge was accepted by Fitch. We ran late that night, and
made much of Joe Goodman. He was only twenty-four years old; he lacked the wisdom which a person
has at twenty-nine, and he was as glad of being it as I was that I wasn't. He chose Major Graves
for his second (that name is not right, but it's close enough; I don't remember the Major's
name). Graves came over to instruct Joe in the duelling art. He had been a Major under Walker,
the "gray-eyed man of destiny," and had fought all through that remarkable man's filibustering
campaign in Central America. That fact gauges the Major. To say that a man was a Major under
Walker, and came out of that struggle ennobled by Walker's praise, is to say that the Major
was not merely a brave man but that he was brave to the very utmost limit of that word. All
of Walker's men were like that. I knew the Gillis family intimately. The father made the campaign
under Walker, and with him one son. They were in the memorable Plaza fight, and stood it out
to the last against overwhelming odds, as did also all of the Walker men. The son was killed
at the father's side. The father received a bullet through the eye. The old man--for he was
an old man at the time--wore spectacles, and the bullet and one of the glasses went into his
skull and remained there. There were some other sons: Steve, George, and Jim, very young chaps--the
merest lads--who wanted to be in the Walker expedition, for they had their father's dauntless
spirit. But Walker wouldn't have them; he said it was a serious expedition, and no place for
children.

The Major was a majestic creature, with a most stately and dignified and impressive military
bearing, and he was by nature and training courteous, polite, graceful, winning; and he had
that quality which I think I have encountered in only one other man--Bob Howland--a mysterious
quality which resides in the eye; and when that eye is turned upon an individual or a squad,
in warning, that is enough.

The Major stood Joe up straight; stood Steve Gillis up fifteen paces away; made Joe turn right
side towards Steve, cock his navy six-shooter--that prodigious weapon--and hold it straight
down against his leg; told him that that was the correct position for the gun--that the position
ordinarily in use at Virginia City (that is to say, the gun straight up in the air, then brought
slowly down to your man) was all wrong. At the word "One," you must raise the gun slowly and
steadily to the place on the other man's body that you desire to convince. Then, after a pause,
"two, three--fire--Stop!" At the word "stop," you may fire--but not earlier. You may give yourself
as much time as you please after that word. Then, when you fire, you may advance and go on
firing at your leisure and pleasure, if you can get any pleasure out of it. And, in the meantime,
the other man, if he has been properly instructed and is alive to his privileges, is advancing
on you, and firing--and it is always likely that more or less trouble will result.

Naturally, when Joe's revolver had risen to a level it was pointing at Steve's breast, but
the Major said "No, that is not wise. Take all the risks of getting murdered yourself, but
don't run any risk of murdering the other man. If you survive a duel you want to survive it
in such a way that the memory of it will not linger along with you through the rest of your
life and interfere with your sleep. Aim at your man's leg; not at the knee, not above the knee;
for those are dangerous spots. Aim below the knee; cripple him, but leave the rest of him to
his mother."

By grace of these truly wise and excellent instructions, Joe tumbled Fitch down next morning
with a bullet through his lower leg, which furnished him a permanent limp. And Joe lost nothing
but a lock of hair, which he could spare better then than he could now. For when I saw him
here in New York a year ago, his crop was gone: he had nothing much left but a fringe, with
a dome rising above.

[Sidenote: (1864.)]

About a year later I got my chance. But I was not hunting for it. Goodman went off to San Francisco
for a week's holiday, and left me to be chief editor. I had supposed that that was an easy
berth, there being nothing to do but write one editorial per day; but I was disappointed in
that superstition. I couldn't find anything to write an article about, the first day. Then
it occurred to me that inasmuch as it was the 22nd of April, 1864, the next morning would be
the three-hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birthday--and what better theme could I want
than that? I got the Cyclopædia and examined it, and found out who Shakespeare was and what
he had done, and I borrowed all that and laid it before a community that couldn't have been
better prepared for instruction about Shakespeare than if they had been prepared by art. There
wasn't enough of what Shakespeare had done to make an editorial of the necessary length, but
I filled it out with what he hadn't done--which in many respects was more important and striking
and readable than the handsomest things he had really accomplished. But next day I was in trouble
again. There were no more Shakespeares to work up. There was nothing in past history, or in
the world's future possibilities, to make an editorial out of, suitable to that community;
so there was but one theme left. That theme was Mr. Laird, proprietor of the Virginia "Union."
His editor had gone off to San Francisco too, and Laird was trying his hand at editing. I woke
up Mr. Laird with some courtesies of the kind that were fashionable among newspaper editors
in that region, and he came back at me the next day in a most vitriolic way. He was hurt by
something I had said about him--some little thing--I don't remember what it was now--probably
called him a horse-thief, or one of those little phrases customarily used to describe another
editor. They were no doubt just, and accurate, but Laird was a very sensitive creature, and
he didn't like it. So we expected a challenge from Mr. Laird, because according to the rules--according
to the etiquette of duelling as reconstructed and reorganized and improved by the duellists
of that region--whenever you said a thing about another person that he didn't like, it wasn't
sufficient for him to talk back in the same offensive spirit: etiquette required him to send
a challenge; so we waited for a challenge--waited all day. It didn't come. And as the day wore
along, hour after hour, and no challenge came, the boys grew depressed. They lost heart. But
I was cheerful; I felt better and better all the time. They couldn't understand it, but I could
understand it. It was my make that enabled me to be cheerful when other people were despondent.
So then it became necessary for us to waive etiquette and challenge Mr. Laird. When we reached
that decision, they began to cheer up, but I began to lose some of my animation. However, in
enterprises of this kind you are in the hands of your friends; there is nothing for you to
do but to abide by what they consider to be the best course. Daggett wrote a challenge for
me, for Daggett had the language--the right language--the convincing language--and I lacked
it. Daggett poured out a stream of unsavory epithets upon Mr. Laird, charged with a vigor and
venom of a strength calculated to persuade him; and Steve Gillis, my second, carried the challenge
and came back to wait for the return. It didn't come. The boys were exasperated, but I kept
my temper. Steve carried another challenge, hotter than the other, and we waited again. Nothing
came of it. I began to feel quite comfortable. I began to take an interest in the challenges
myself. I had not felt any before; but it seemed to me that I was accumulating a great and
valuable reputation at no expense, and my delight in this grew and grew, as challenge after
challenge was declined, until by midnight I was beginning to think that there was nothing in
the world so much to be desired as a chance to fight a duel. So I hurried Daggett up; made
him keep on sending challenge after challenge. Oh, well, I overdid it; Laird accepted. I might
have known that that would happen--Laird was a man you couldn't depend on.

The boys were jubilant beyond expression. They helped me make my will, which was another discomfort--and
I already had enough. Then they took me home. I didn't sleep any--didn't want to sleep. I had
plenty of things to think about, and less than four hours to do it in,--because five o'clock
was the hour appointed for the tragedy, and I should have to use up one hour--beginning at
four--in practising with the revolver and finding out which end of it to level at the adversary.
At four we went down into a little gorge, about a mile from town, and borrowed a barn door
for a mark--borrowed it of a man who was over in California on a visit--and we set the barn
door up and stood a fence-rail up against the middle of it, to represent Mr. Laird. But the
rail was no proper representative of him, for he was longer than a rail and thinner. Nothing
would ever fetch him but a line shot, and then as like as not he would split the bullet--the
worst material for duelling purposes that could be imagined. I began on the rail. I couldn't
hit the rail; then I tried the barn door; but I couldn't hit the barn door. There was nobody
in danger except stragglers around on the flanks of that mark. I was thoroughly discouraged,
and I didn't cheer up any when we presently heard pistol-shots over in the next little ravine.
I knew what that was--that was Laird's gang out practising him. They would hear my shots, and
of course they would come up over the ridge to see what kind of a record I was making--see
what their chances were against me. Well, I hadn't any record; and I knew that if Laird came
over that ridge and saw my barn door without a scratch on it, he would be as anxious to fight
as I was--or as I had been at midnight, before that disastrous acceptance came.

Now just at this moment, a little bird, no bigger than a sparrow, flew along by and lit on
a sage-bush about thirty yards away. Steve whipped out his revolver and shot its head off.
Oh, he was a marksman--much better than I was. We ran down there to pick up the bird, and just
then, sure enough, Mr. Laird and his people came over the ridge, and they joined us. And when
Laird's second saw that bird, with its head shot off, he lost color, he faded, and you could
see that he was interested. He said:

"Who did that?"

Before I could answer, Steve spoke up and said quite calmly, and in a matter-of-fact way,

"Clemens did it."

The second said, "Why, that is wonderful. How far off was that bird?"

Steve said, "Oh, not far--about thirty yards."

The second said, "Well, that is astonishing shooting. How often can he do that?"

Steve said languidly, "Oh, about four times out of five."

I knew the little rascal was lying, but I didn't say anything. The second said, "Why, that
is amazing shooting; I supposed he couldn't hit a church."

He was supposing very sagaciously, but I didn't say anything. Well, they said good morning.
The second took Mr. Laird home, a little tottery on his legs, and Laird sent back a note in
his own hand declining to fight a duel with me on any terms whatever.

Well, my life was saved--saved by that accident. I don't know what the bird thought about that
interposition of Providence, but I felt very, very comfortable over it--satisfied and content.
Now, we found out, later, that Laird had hit his mark four times out of six, right along. If
the duel had come off, he would have so filled my skin with bullet-holes that it wouldn't have
held my principles.

By breakfast-time the news was all over town that I had sent a challenge and Steve Gillis had
carried it. Now that would entitle us to two years apiece in the penitentiary, according to
the brand-new law. Judge North sent us no message as coming from himself, but a message came
from a close friend of his. He said it would be a good idea for us to leave the territory by
the first stage-coach. This would sail next morning, at four o'clock--and in the meantime we
would be searched for, but not with avidity; and if we were in the Territory after that stage-coach
left, we would be the first victims of the new law. Judge North was anxious to have some object-lessons
for that law, and he would absolutely keep us in the prison the full two years.

Well, it seemed to me that our society was no longer desirable in Nevada; so we stayed in our
quarters and observed proper caution all day--except that once Steve went over to the hotel
to attend to another customer of mine. That was a Mr. Cutler. You see Laird was not the only
person whom I had tried to reform during my occupancy of the editorial chair. I had looked
around and selected several other people, and delivered a new zest of life into them through
warm criticism and disapproval--so that when I laid down my editorial pen I had four horse-whippings
and two duels owing to me. We didn't care for the horse-whippings; there was no glory in them;
they were not worth the trouble of collecting. But honor required that some notice should be
taken of that other duel. Mr. Cutler had come up from Carson City, and had sent a man over
with a challenge from the hotel. Steve went over to pacify him. Steve weighed only ninety-five
pounds, but it was well known throughout the territory that with his fists he could whip anybody
that walked on two legs, let his weight and science be what they might. Steve was a Gillis,
and when a Gillis confronted a man and had a proposition to make, the proposition always contained
business. When Cutler found that Steve was my second he cooled down; he became calm and rational,
and was ready to listen. Steve gave him fifteen minutes to get out of the hotel, and half an
hour to get out of town or there would be results. So that duel went off successfully, because
Mr. Cutler immediately left for Carson a convinced and reformed man.

I have never had anything to do with duels since. I thoroughly disapprove of duels. I consider
them unwise, and I know they are dangerous. Also, sinful. If a man should challenge me now,
I would go to that man and take him kindly and forgivingly by the hand and lead him to a quiet
retired spot, and kill him.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCVI.

JANUARY 4, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--IX.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated December 13, 1906.] As regards the coming American monarchy. It was before the Secretary
of State had been heard from that the chairman of the banquet said:

"In this time of unrest it is of great satisfaction that such a man as you, Mr. Root, is chief
adviser of the President."

Mr. Root then got up and in the most quiet and orderly manner touched off the successor to
the San Francisco earthquake. As a result, the several State governments were well shaken up
and considerably weakened. Mr. Root was prophesying. He was prophesying, and it seems to me
that no shrewder and surer forecasting has been done in this country for a good many years.

He did not say, in so many words, that we are proceeding, in a steady march, toward eventual
and unavoidable replacement of the republic by monarchy; but I suppose he was aware that that
is the case. He notes the several steps, the customary steps, which in all the ages have led
to the consolidation of loose and scattered governmental forces into formidable centralizations
of authority; but he stops there, and doesn't add up the sum. He is not unaware that heretofore
the sum has been ultimate monarchy, and that the same figures can fairly be depended upon to
furnish the same sum whenever and wherever they can be produced, so long as human nature shall
remain as it is; but it was not needful that he do the adding, since any one can do it; neither
would it have been gracious in him to do it.

In observing the changed conditions which in the course of time have made certain and sure
the eventual seizure by the Washington government of a number of State duties and prerogatives
which have been betrayed and neglected by the several States, he does not attribute those changes
and the vast results which are to flow from them to any thought-out policy of any party or
of any body of dreamers or schemers, but properly and rightly attributes them to that stupendous
power--Circumstance-- which moves by laws of its own, regardless of parties and policies, and
whose decrees are final, and must be obeyed by all--and will be. The railway is a Circumstance,
the steamship is a Circumstance, the telegraph is a Circumstance. They were mere happenings;
and to the whole world, the wise and the foolish alike, they were entirely trivial, wholly
inconsequential; indeed silly, comical, grotesque. No man, and no party, and no thought-out
policy said, "Behold, we will build railways and steamships and telegraphs, and presently you
will see the condition and way of life of every man and woman and child in the nation totally
changed; unimaginable changes of law and custom will follow, in spite of anything that anybody
can do to prevent it."

The changed conditions have come, and Circumstance knows what is following, and will follow.
So does Mr. Root. His language is not unclear, it is crystal:

     "Our whole life has swung away from the old State centres, and is
     crystallizing about national centres."

     " ... The old barriers which kept the States as separate
     communities are completely lost from sight."

     " ... That [State] power of regulation and control is gradually
     passing into the hands of the national government."

     "Sometimes by an assertion of the inter-State commerce power,
     sometimes by an assertion of the taxing power, the national
     government is taking up the performance of duties which under the
     changed conditions the separate States are no longer capable of
     adequately performing."

     "We are urging forward in a development of business and social life
     which tends more and more to the obliteration of State lines and
     the decrease of State power as compared with national power."

     "It is useless for the advocates of State rights to inveigh against
     ... the extension of national authority in the fields of necessary
     control where the States themselves fail in the performance of
     their duty."

He is not announcing a policy; he is not forecasting what a party of planners will bring about;
he is merely telling what the people will require and compel. And he could have added--which
would be perfectly true--that the people will not be moved to it by speculation and cogitation
and planning, but by Circumstance--that power which arbitrarily compels all their actions,
and over which they have not the slightest control.

"The end is not yet."

It is a true word. We are on the march, but at present we are only just getting started.

If the States continue to fail to do their duty as required by the people--

"

I do not know whether that has a sinister meaning or not, and so I will not enlarge upon it
lest I should chance to be in the wrong. It sounds like ship-money come again, but it may not
be so intended.

Human nature being what it is, I suppose we must expect to drift into monarchy by and by. It
is a saddening thought, but we cannot change our nature: we are all alike, we human beings;
and in our blood and bone, and ineradicable, we carry the seeds out of which monarchies and
aristocracies are grown: worship of gauds, titles, distinctions, power. We have to worship
these things and their possessors, we are all born so, and we cannot help it. We have to be
despised by somebody whom we regard as above us, or we are not happy; we have to have somebody
to worship and envy, or we cannot be content. In America we manifest this in all the ancient
and customary ways. In public we scoff at titles and hereditary privilege, but privately we
hanker after them, and when we get a chance we buy them for cash and a daughter. Sometimes
we get a good man and worth the price, but we are ready to take him anyway, whether he be ripe
or rotten, whether he be clean and decent, or merely a basket of noble and sacred and long-descended
offal. And when we get him the whole nation publicly chaffs and scoffs--and privately envies;
and also is proud of the honor which has been conferred upon us. We run over our list of titled
purchases every now and then, in the newspapers, and discuss them and caress them, and are
thankful and happy.

Like all the other nations, we worship money and the possessors of it--they being our aristocracy,
and we have to have one. We like to read about rich people in the papers; the papers know it,
and they do their best to keep this appetite liberally fed. They even leave out a football
bull-fight now and then to get room for all the particulars of how--according to the display
heading--"Rich Woman Fell Down Cellar--Not Hurt." The falling down the cellar is of no interest
to us when the woman is not rich, but no rich woman can fall down cellar and we not yearn to
know all about it and wish it was us.

In a monarchy the people willingly and rejoicingly revere and take pride in their nobilities,
and are not humiliated by the reflection that this humble and hearty homage gets no return
but contempt. Contempt does not shame them, they are used to it, and they recognize that it
is their proper due. We are all made like that. In Europe we easily and quickly learn to take
that attitude toward the sovereigns and the aristocracies; moreover, it has been observed that
when we get the attitude we go on and exaggerate it, presently becoming more servile than the
natives, and vainer of it. The next step is to rail and scoff at republics and democracies.
All of which is natural, for we have not ceased to be human beings by becoming Americans, and
the human race was always intended to be governed by kingship, not by popular vote.

I suppose we must expect that unavoidable and irresistible Circumstances will gradually take
away the powers of the States and concentrate them in the central government, and that the
republic will then repeat the history of all time and become a monarchy; but I believe that
if we obstruct these encroachments and steadily resist them the monarchy can be postponed for
a good while yet.

[Sidenote: (1849-'51.)]

[Dictated December 1, 1906.] An exciting event in our village (Hannibal) was the arrival of
the mesmerizer. I think the year was 1850. As to that I am not sure, but I know the month--it
was May; that detail has survived the wear of fifty-five years. A pair of connected little
incidents of that month have served to keep the memory of it green for me all this time; incidents
of no consequence, and not worth embalming, yet my memory has preserved them carefully and
flung away things of real value to give them space and make them comfortable. The truth is,
a person's memory has no more sense than his conscience, and no appreciation whatever of values
and proportions. However, never mind those trifling incidents; my subject is the mesmerizer, now.

He advertised his show, and promised marvels. Admission as usual: 25 cents, children and negroes
half price. The village had heard of mesmerism, in a general way, but had not encountered it
yet. Not many people attended, the first night, but next day they had so many wonders to tell
that everybody's curiosity was fired, and after that for a fortnight the magician had prosperous
times. I was fourteen or fifteen years old--the age at which a boy is willing to endure all
things, suffer all things, short of death by fire, if thereby he may be conspicuous and show
off before the public; and so, when I saw the "subjects" perform their foolish antics on the
platform and make the people laugh and shout and admire, I had a burning desire to be a subject
myself. Every night, for three nights, I sat in the row of candidates on the platform, and
held the magic disk in the palm of my hand, and gazed at it and tried to get sleepy, but it
was a failure; I remained wide awake, and had to retire defeated, like the majority. Also,
I had to sit there and be gnawed with envy of Hicks, our journeyman; I had to sit there and
see him scamper and jump when Simmons the enchanter exclaimed, "See the snake! see the snake!"
and hear him say, "My, how beautiful!" in response to the suggestion that he was observing
a splendid sunset; and so on--the whole insane business. I couldn't laugh, I couldn't applaud;
it filled me with bitterness to have others do it, and to have people make a hero of Hicks,
and crowd around him when the show was over, and ask him for more and more particulars of the
wonders he had seen in his visions, and manifest in many ways that they were proud to be acquainted
with him. Hicks--the idea! I couldn't stand it; I was getting boiled to death in my own bile.

On the fourth night temptation came, and I was not strong enough to resist. When I had gazed
at the disk awhile I pretended to be sleepy, and began to nod. Straightway came the professor
and made passes over my head and down my body and legs and arms, finishing each pass with a
snap of his fingers in the air, to discharge the surplus electricity; then he began to "draw"
me with the disk, holding it in his fingers and telling me I could not take my eyes off it,
try as I might; so I rose slowly, bent and gazing, and followed that disk all over the place,
just as I had seen the others do. Then I was put through the other paces. Upon suggestion I
fled from snakes; passed buckets at a fire; became excited over hot steamboat-races; made love
to imaginary girls and kissed them; fished from the platform and landed mud-cats that outweighed
me--and so on, all the customary marvels. But not in the customary way. I was cautious at first,
and watchful, being afraid the professor would discover that I was an impostor and drive me
from the platform in disgrace; but as soon as I realized that I was not in danger, I set myself
the task of terminating Hicks's usefulness as a subject, and of usurping his place.

It was a sufficiently easy task. Hicks was born honest; I, without that incumbrance--so some
people said. Hicks saw what he saw, and reported accordingly; I saw more than was visible,
and added to it such details as could help. Hicks had no imagination, I had a double supply.
He was born calm, I was born excited. No vision could start a rapture in him, and he was constipated
as to language, anyway; but if I saw a vision I emptied the dictionary onto it and lost the
remnant of my mind into the bargain.

At the end of my first half-hour Hicks was a thing of the past, a fallen hero, a broken idol,
and I knew it and was glad, and said in my heart, Success to crime! Hicks could never have
been mesmerized to the point where he could kiss an imaginary girl in public, or a real one
either, but I was competent. Whatever Hicks had failed in, I made it a point to succeed in,
let the cost be what it might, physically or morally. He had shown several bad defects, and
I had made a note of them. For instance, if the magician asked, "What do you see?" and left
him to invent a vision for himself, Hicks was dumb and blind, he couldn't see a thing nor say
a word, whereas the magician soon found that when it came to seeing visions of a stunning and
marketable sort I could get along better without his help than with it. Then there was another
thing: Hicks wasn't worth a tallow dip on mute mental suggestion. Whenever Simmons stood behind
him and gazed at the back of his skull and tried to drive a mental suggestion into it, Hicks
sat with vacant face, and never suspected. If he had been noticing, he could have seen by the
rapt faces of the audience that something was going on behind his back that required a response.
Inasmuch as I was an impostor I dreaded to have this test put upon me, for I knew the professor
would be "willing" me to do something, and as I couldn't know what it was, I should be exposed
and denounced. However, when my time came, I took my chance. I perceived by the tense and expectant
faces of the people that Simmons was behind me willing me with all his might. I tried my best
to imagine what he wanted, but nothing suggested itself. I felt ashamed and miserable, then.
I believed that the hour of my disgrace was come, and that in another moment I should go out
of that place disgraced. I ought to be ashamed to confess it, but my next thought was, not
how I could win the compassion of kindly hearts by going out humbly and in sorrow for my misdoings,
but how I could go out most sensationally and spectacularly.

There was a rusty and empty old revolver lying on the table, among the "properties" employed
in the performances. On May-day, two or three weeks before, there had been a celebration by
the schools, and I had had a quarrel with a big boy who was the school-bully, and I had not
come out of it with credit. That boy was now seated in the middle of the house, half-way down
the main aisle. I crept stealthily and impressively toward the table, with a dark and murderous
scowl on my face, copied from a popular romance, seized the revolver suddenly, flourished it,
shouted the bully's name, jumped off the platform, and made a rush for him and chased him out
of the house before the paralyzed people could interfere to save him. There was a storm of
applause, and the magician, addressing the house, said, most impressively--

"That you may know how really remarkable this is, and how wonderfully developed a subject we
have in this boy, I assure you that without a single spoken word to guide him he has carried
out what I mentally commanded him to do, to the minutest detail. I could have stopped him at
a moment in his vengeful career by a mere exertion of my will, therefore the poor fellow who
has escaped was at no time in danger."

So I was not in disgrace. I returned to the platform a hero, and happier than I have ever been
in this world since. As regards mental suggestion, my fears of it were gone. I judged that
in case I failed to guess what the professor might be willing me to do, I could count on putting
up something that would answer just as well. I was right, and exhibitions of unspoken suggestion
became a favorite with the public. Whenever I perceived that I was being willed to do something
I got up and did something--anything that occurred to me--and the magician, not being a fool,
always ratified it. When people asked me, "How can you tell what he is willing you to do?"
I said, "It's just as easy," and they always said, admiringly, "Well it beats me how you can
do it."

Hicks was weak in another detail. When the professor made passes over him and said "his whole
body is without sensation now--come forward and test him, ladies and gentlemen," the ladies
and gentlemen always complied eagerly, and stuck pins into Hicks, and if they went deep Hicks
was sure to wince, then that poor professor would have to explain that Hicks "wasn't sufficiently
under the influence." But I didn't wince; I only suffered, and shed tears on the inside. The
miseries that a conceited boy will endure to keep up his "reputation"! And so will a conceited
man; I know it in my own person, and have seen it in a hundred thousand others. That professor
ought to have protected me, and I often hoped he would, when the tests were unusually severe,
but he didn't. It may be that he was deceived as well as the others, though I did not believe
it nor think it possible. Those were dear good people, but they must have carried simplicity
and credulity to the limit. They would stick a pin in my arm and bear on it until they drove
it a third of its length in, and then be lost in wonder that by a mere exercise of will-power
the professor could turn my arm to iron and make it insensible to pain. Whereas it was not
insensible at all; I was suffering agonies of pain.

After that fourth night, that proud night, that triumphant night, I was the only subject. Simmons
invited no more candidates to the platform. I performed alone, every night, the rest of the
fortnight. In the beginning of the second week I conquered the last doubters. Up to that time
a dozen wise old heads, the intellectual aristocracy of the town, had held out, as implacable
unbelievers. I was as hurt by this as if I were engaged in some honest occupation. There is
nothing surprising about this. Human beings feel dishonor the most, sometimes, when they most
deserve it. That handful of overwise old gentlemen kept on shaking their heads all the first
week, and saying they had seen no marvels there that could not have been produced by collusion;
and they were pretty vain of their unbelief, too, and liked to show it and air it, and be superior
to the ignorant and the gullible. Particularly old Dr. Peake, who was the ringleader of the
irreconcilables, and very formidable; for he was an F.F.V., he was learned, white-haired and
venerable, nobly and richly clad in the fashions of an earlier and a courtlier day, he was
large and stately, and he not only seemed wise, but was what he seemed, in that regard. He
had great influence, and his opinion upon any matter was worth much more than that of any other
person in the community. When I conquered him, at last, I knew I was undisputed master of the
field; and now, after more than fifty years, I acknowledge, with a few dry old tears, that
I rejoiced without shame.

[Sidenote: (1847.)]

[Dictated December 2, 1906.] In 1847 we were living in a large white house on the corner of
Hill and Main Streets--a house that still stands, but isn't large now, although it hasn't lost
a plank; I saw it a year ago and noticed that shrinkage. My father died in it in March of the
year mentioned, but our family did not move out of it until some months afterward. Ours was
not the only family in the house, there was another--Dr. Grant's. One day Dr. Grant and Dr.
Reyburn argued a matter on the street with sword-canes, and Grant was brought home multifariously
punctured. Old Dr. Peake calked the leaks, and came every day for a while, to look after him.
The Grants were Virginians, like Peake, and one day when Grant was getting well enough to be
on his feet and sit around in the parlor and talk, the conversation fell upon Virginia and
old times. I was present, but the group were probably quite unconscious of me, I being only
a lad and a negligible quantity. Two of the group--Dr. Peake and Mrs. Crawford, Mrs. Grant's
mother--had been of the audience when the Richmond theatre burned down, thirty-six years before,
and they talked over the frightful details of that memorable tragedy. These were eye-witnesses,
and with their eyes I saw it all with an intolerable vividness: I saw the black smoke rolling
and tumbling toward the sky, I saw the flames burst through it and turn red, I heard the shrieks
of the despairing, I glimpsed their faces at the windows, caught fitfully through the veiling
smoke, I saw them jump to their death, or to mutilation worse than death. The picture is before
me yet, and can never fade.

In due course they talked of the colonial mansion of the Peakes, with its stately columns and
its spacious grounds, and by odds and ends I picked up a clearly defined idea of the place.
I was strongly interested, for I had not before heard of such palatial things from the lips
of people who had seen them with their own eyes. One detail, casually dropped, hit my imagination
hard. In the wall, by the great front door, there was a round hole as big as a saucer--a British
cannon-ball had made it, in the war of the Revolution. It was breath-taking; it made history
real; history had never been real to me before.

Very well, three or four years later, as already mentioned, I was king-bee and sole "subject"
in the mesmeric show; it was the beginning of the second week; the performance was half over;
just then the majestic Dr. Peake, with his ruffled bosom and wristbands and his gold-headed
cane, entered, and a deferential citizen vacated his seat beside the Grants and made the great
chief take it. This happened while I was trying to invent something fresh in the way of a vision,
in response to the professor's remark--

"Concentrate your powers. Look--look attentively. There--don't you see something? Concentrate--concentrate.
Now then--describe it."

Without suspecting it, Dr. Peake, by entering the place, had reminded me of the talk of three
years before. He had also furnished me capital and was become my confederate, an accomplice
in my frauds. I began on a vision, a vague and dim one (that was part of the game at the beginning
of a vision; it isn't best to see it too clearly at first, it might look as if you had come
loaded with it). The vision developed, by degrees, and gathered swing, momentum, energy. It
was the Richmond fire. Dr. Peake was cold, at first, and his fine face had a trace of polite
scorn in it; but when he began to recognize that fire, that expression changed, and his eyes
began to light up. As soon as I saw that, I threw the valves wide open and turned on all the
steam, and gave those people a supper of fire and horrors that was calculated to last them
one while! They couldn't gasp, when I got through--they were petrified. Dr. Peake had risen,
and was standing,--and breathing hard. He said, in a great voice--

"My doubts are ended. No collusion could produce that miracle. It was totally impossible for
him to know those details, yet he has described them with the clarity of an eye-witness--and
with what unassailable truthfulness God knows I know!"

I saved the colonial mansion for the last night, and solidified and perpetuated Dr. Peake's
conversion with the cannon-ball hole. He explained to the house that I could never have heard
of that small detail, which differentiated this mansion from all other Virginian mansions and
perfectly identified it, therefore the fact stood proven that I had seen it in my vision. Lawks!

It is curious. When the magician's engagement closed there was but one person in the village
who did not believe in mesmerism, and I was the one. All the others were converted, but I was
to remain an implacable and unpersuadable disbeliever in mesmerism and hypnotism for close
upon fifty years. This was because I never would examine them, in after life. I couldn't. The
subject revolted me. Perhaps because it brought back to me a passage in my life which for pride's
sake I wished to forget; though I thought--or persuaded myself I thought--I should never come
across a "proof" which wasn't thin and cheap, and probably had a fraud like me behind it.

The truth is, I did not have to wait long to get tired of my triumphs. Not thirty days, I think.
The glory which is built upon a lie soon becomes a most unpleasant incumbrance. No doubt for
a while I enjoyed having my exploits told and retold and told again in my presence and wondered
over and exclaimed about, but I quite distinctly remember that there presently came a time
when the subject was wearisome and odious to me and I could not endure the disgusting discomfort
of it. I am well aware that the world-glorified doer of a deed of great and real splendor has
just my experience; I know that he deliciously enjoys hearing about it for three or four weeks,
and that pretty soon after that he begins to dread the mention of it, and by and by wishes
he had been with the damned before he ever thought of doing that deed; I remember how General
Sherman used to rage and swear over "When we were Marching through Georgia," which was played
at him and sung at him everywhere he went; still, I think I suffered a shade more than the
legitimate hero does, he being privileged to soften his misery with the reflection that his
glory was at any rate golden and reproachless in its origin, whereas I had no such privilege,
there being no possible way to make mine respectable.

How easy it is to make people believe a lie, and how hard it is to undo that work again! Thirty-five
years after those evil exploits of mine I visited my old mother, whom I had not seen for ten
years; and being moved by what seemed to me a rather noble and perhaps heroic impulse, I thought
I would humble myself and confess my ancient fault. It cost me a great effort to make up my
mind; I dreaded the sorrow that would rise in her face, and the shame that would look out of
her eyes; but after long and troubled reflection, the sacrifice seemed due and right, and I
gathered my resolution together and made the confession.

To my astonishment there were no sentimentalities, no dramatics, no George Washington effects;
she was not moved in the least degree; she simply did not believe me, and said so! I was not
merely disappointed, I was nettled, to have my costly truthfulness flung out of the market
in this placid and confident way when I was expecting to get a profit out of it. I asserted,
and reasserted, with rising heat, my statement that every single thing I had done on those
long-vanished nights was a lie and a swindle; and when she shook her head tranquilly and said
she knew better, I put up my hand and swore to it--adding a triumphant "Now what do you say?"

It did not affect her at all; it did not budge her the fraction of an inch from her position.
If this was hard for me to endure, it did not begin with the blister she put upon the raw when
she began to put my sworn oath out of court with arguments to prove that I was under a delusion
and did not know what I was talking about. Arguments! Arguments to show that a person on a
man's outside can know better what is on his inside than he does himself! I had cherished some
contempt for arguments before, I have not enlarged my respect for them since. She refused to
believe that I had invented my visions myself; she said it was folly: that I was only a child
at the time and could not have done it. She cited the Richmond fire and the colonial mansion
and said they were quite beyond my capacities. Then I saw my chance! I said she was right--I
didn't invent those, I got them from Dr. Peake. Even this great shot did no damage. She said
Dr. Peake's evidence was better than mine, and he had said in plain words that it was impossible
for me to have heard about those things. Dear, dear, what a grotesque and unthinkable situation:
a confessed swindler convicted of honesty and condemned to acquittal by circumstantial evidence
furnished by the swindled!

I realised, with shame and with impotent vexation, that I was defeated all along the line.
I had but one card left, but it was a formidable one. I played it--and stood from under. It
seemed ignoble to demolish her fortress, after she had defended it so valiantly; but the defeated
know not mercy. I played that matter card. It was the pin-sticking. I said, solemnly--

"I give you my honor, a pin was never stuck into me without causing me cruel pain."

She only said--

"It is thirty-five years. I believe you do think that, now, but I was there, and I know better.
You never winced."

She was so calm! and I was so far from it, so nearly frantic.

"Oh, my goodness!" I said, "let me show you that I am speaking the truth. Here is my arm; drive
a pin into it--drive it to the head--I shall not wince."

She only shook her gray head and said, with simplicity and conviction--

"You are a man, now, and could dissemble the hurt; but you were only a child then, and could
not have done it."

And so the lie which I played upon her in my youth remained with her as an unchallengeable
truth to the day of her death. Carlyle said "a lie cannot live." It shows that he did not know
how to tell them. If I had taken out a life policy on this one the premiums would have bankrupted
me ages ago.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCVII.

JANUARY 18, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--X.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1825.)]

[Sidenote: (1837.)]

[Dictated March 28, 1906.] Orion Clemens was born in Jamestown, Fentress County, Tennessee,
in 1825. He was the family's first-born, and antedated me ten years. Between him and me came
a sister, Margaret, who died, aged ten, in 1837, in that village of Florida, Missouri, where
I was born; and Pamela, mother of Samuel E. Moffett, who was an invalid all her life and died
in the neighborhood of New York a year ago, aged about seventy-five. Her character was without
blemish, and she was of a most kindly and gentle disposition. Also there was a brother, Benjamin,
who died in 1848 aged ten or twelve.

[Sidenote: (1843.)]

Orion's boyhood was spent in that wee little log hamlet of Jamestown up there among the "knobs"--so
called--of East Tennessee. The family migrated to Florida, Missouri, then moved to Hannibal,
Missouri, when Orion was twelve and a half years old. When he was fifteen or sixteen he was
sent to St. Louis and there he learned the printer's trade. One of his characteristics was
eagerness. He woke with an eagerness about some matter or other every morning; it consumed
him all day; it perished in the night and he was on fire with a fresh new interest next morning
before he could get his clothes on. He exploited in this way three hundred and sixty-five red-hot
new eagernesses every year of his life. But I am forgetting another characteristic, a very
pronounced one. That was his deep glooms, his despondencies, his despairs; these had their
place in each and every day along with the eagernesses. Thus his day was divided--no, not divided,
mottled--from sunrise to midnight with alternating brilliant sunshine and black cloud. Every
day he was the most joyous and hopeful man that ever was, I think, and also every day he was
the most miserable man that ever was.

While he was in his apprenticeship in St. Louis, he got well acquainted with Edward Bates,
who was afterwards in Mr. Lincoln's first cabinet. Bates was a very fine man, an honorable
and upright man, and a distinguished lawyer. He patiently allowed Orion to bring to him each
new project; he discussed it with him and extinguished it by argument and irresistible logic--at
first. But after a few weeks he found that this labor was not necessary; that he could leave
the new project alone and it would extinguish itself the same night. Orion thought he would
like to become a lawyer. Mr. Bates encouraged him, and he studied law nearly a week, then of
course laid it aside to try something new. He wanted to become an orator. Mr. Bates gave him
lessons. Mr. Bates walked the floor reading from an English book aloud and rapidly turning
the English into French, and he recommended this exercise to Orion. But as Orion knew no French,
he took up that study and wrought at it like a volcano for two or three days; then gave it
up. During his apprenticeship in St. Louis he joined a number of churches, one after another,
and taught in their Sunday-schools--changing his Sunday-school every time he changed his religion.
He was correspondingly erratic in his politics--Whig to-day, Democrat next week, and anything
fresh that he could find in the political market the week after. I may remark here that throughout
his long life he was always trading religions and enjoying the change of scenery. I will also
remark that his sincerity was never doubted; his truthfulness was never doubted; and in matters
of business and money his honesty was never questioned. Notwithstanding his forever-recurring
caprices and changes, his principles were high, always high, and absolutely unshakable. He
was the strangest compound that ever got mixed in a human mould. Such a person as that is given
to acting upon impulse and without reflection; that was Orion's way. Everything he did he did
with conviction and enthusiasm and with a vainglorious pride in the thing he was doing--and
no matter what that thing was, whether good, bad or indifferent, he repented of it every time
in sackcloth and ashes before twenty-four hours had sped. Pessimists are born, not made. Optimists
are born, not made. But I think he was the only person I have ever known in whom pessimism
and optimism were lodged in exactly equal proportions. Except in the matter of grounded principle,
he was as unstable as water. You could dash his spirits with a single word; you could raise
them into the sky again with another one. You could break his heart with a word of disapproval;
you could make him as happy as an angel with a word of approval. And there was no occasion
to put any sense or any vestige of mentality of any kind into these miracles; anything you
might say would answer.

He had another conspicuous characteristic, and it was the father of those which I have just
spoken of. This was an intense lust for approval. He was so eager to be approved, so girlishly
anxious to be approved by anybody and everybody, without discrimination, that he was commonly
ready to forsake his notions, opinions and convictions at a moment's notice in order to get
the approval of any person who disagreed with them. I wish to be understood as reserving his
fundamental principles all the time. He never forsook those to please anybody. Born and reared
among slaves and slaveholders, he was yet an abolitionist from his boyhood to his death. He
was always truthful; he was always sincere; he was always honest and honorable. But in light
matters--matters of small consequence, like religion and politics and such things--he never
acquired a conviction that could survive a disapproving remark from a cat.

He was always dreaming; he was a dreamer from birth, and this characteristic got him into trouble
now and then.

Once when he was twenty-three or twenty-four years old, and was become a journeyman, he conceived
the romantic idea of coming to Hannibal without giving us notice, in order that he might furnish
to the family a pleasant surprise. If he had given notice, he would have been informed that
we had changed our residence and that that gruff old bass-voiced sailorman, Dr. G., our family
physician, was living in the house which we had formerly occupied and that Orion's former room
in that house was now occupied by Dr. G.'s two middle-aged maiden sisters. Orion arrived at
Hannibal per steamboat in the middle of the night, and started with his customary eagerness
on his excursion, his mind all on fire with his romantic project and building and enjoying
his surprise in advance. He was always enjoying things in advance; it was the make of him.
He never could wait for the event, but must build it out of dream-stuff and enjoy it beforehand--consequently
sometimes when the event happened he saw that it was not as good as the one he had invented
in his imagination, and so he had lost profit by not keeping the imaginary one and letting
the reality go.

When he arrived at the house he went around to the back door and slipped off his boots and
crept up-stairs and arrived at the room of those elderly ladies without having wakened any
sleepers. He undressed in the dark and got into bed and snuggled up against somebody. He was
a little surprised, but not much--for he thought it was our brother Ben. It was winter, and
the bed was comfortable, and the supposed Ben added to the comfort--and so he was dropping
off to sleep very well satisfied with his progress so far and full of happy dreams of what
was going to happen in the morning. But something else was going to happen sooner than that,
and it happened now. The maid that was being crowded fumed and fretted and struggled and presently
came to a half-waking condition and protested against the crowding. That voice paralyzed Orion.
He couldn't move a limb; he couldn't get his breath; and the crowded one discovered his new
whiskers and began to scream. This removed the paralysis, and Orion was out of bed and clawing
round in the dark for his clothes in a fraction of a second. Both maids began to scream then,
so Orion did not wait to get his whole wardrobe. He started with such parts of it as he could
grab. He flew to the head of the stairs and started down, and was paralyzed again at that point,
because he saw the faint yellow flame of a candle soaring up the stairs from below and he judged
that Dr. G. was behind it, and he was. He had no clothes on to speak of, but no matter, he
was well enough fixed for an occasion like this, because he had a butcher-knife in his hand.
Orion shouted to him, and this saved his life, for the Doctor recognized his voice. Then in
those deep-sea-going bass tones of his that I used to admire so much when I was a little boy,
he explained to Orion the change that had been made, told him where to find the Clemens family,
and closed with some quite unnecessary advice about posting himself before he undertook another
adventure like that--advice which Orion probably never needed again as long as he lived.

One bitter December night, Orion sat up reading until three o'clock in the morning and then,
without looking at a clock, sallied forth to call on a young lady. He hammered and hammered
at the door; couldn't get any response; didn't understand it. Anybody else would have regarded
that as an indication of some kind or other and would have drawn inferences and gone home.
But Orion didn't draw inferences, he merely hammered and hammered, and finally the father of
the girl appeared at the door in a dressing-gown. He had a candle in his hand and the dressing-gown
was all the clothing he had on--except an expression of unwelcome which was so thick and so
large that it extended all down his front to his instep and nearly obliterated the dressing-gown.
But Orion didn't notice that this was an unpleasant expression. He merely walked in. The old
gentleman took him into the parlor, set the candle on a table, and stood. Orion made the usual
remarks about the weather, and sat down--sat down and talked and talked and went on talking--that
old man looking at him vindictively and waiting for his chance--waiting treacherously and malignantly
for his chance. Orion had not asked for the young lady. It was not customary. It was understood
that a young fellow came to see the girl of the house, not the founder of it. At last Orion
got up and made some remark to the effect that probably the young lady was busy and he would
go now and call again. That was the old man's chance, and he said with fervency "Why good land,
aren't you going to stop to breakfast?"

Orion did not come to Hannibal until two or three years after my father's death. Meantime he
remained in St Louis. He was a journeyman printer and earning wages. Out of his wage he supported
my mother and my brother Henry, who was two years younger than I. My sister Pamela helped in
this support by taking piano pupils. Thus we got along, but it was pretty hard sledding. I
was not one of the burdens, because I was taken from school at once, upon my father's death,
and placed in the office of the Hannibal "Courier," as printer's apprentice, and Mr. S., the
editor and proprietor of the paper, allowed me the usual emolument of the office of apprentice--that
is to say board and clothes, but no money. The clothes consisted of two suits a year, but one
of the suits always failed to materialize and the other suit was not purchased so long as Mr.
S.'s old clothes held out. I was only about half as big as Mr. S., consequently his shirts
gave me the uncomfortable sense of living in a circus tent, and I had to turn up his pants
to my ears to make them short enough.

There were two other apprentices. One was Steve Wilkins, seventeen or eighteen years old and
a giant. When he was in Mr. S.'s clothes they fitted him as the candle-mould fits the candle--thus
he was generally in a suffocated condition, particularly in the summer-time. He was a reckless,
hilarious, admirable creature; he had no principles, and was delightful company. At first we
three apprentices had to feed in the kitchen with the old slave cook and her very handsome
and bright and well-behaved young mulatto daughter. For his own amusement--for he was not generally
laboring for other people's amusement--Steve was constantly and persistently and loudly and
elaborately making love to that mulatto girl and distressing the life out of her and worrying
the old mother to death. She would say, "Now, Marse Steve, Marse Steve, can't you behave yourself?"
With encouragement like that, Steve would naturally renew his attentions and emphasize them.
It was killingly funny to Ralph and me. And, to speak truly, the old mother's distress about
it was merely a pretence. She quite well understood that by the customs of slaveholding communities
it was Steve's right to make love to that girl if he wanted to. But the girl's distress was
very real. She had a refined nature, and she took all Steve's extravagant love-making in resentful
earnest.

We got but little variety in the way of food at that kitchen table, and there wasn't enough
of it anyway. So we apprentices used to keep alive by arts of our own--that is to say, we crept
into the cellar nearly every night, by a private entrance which we had discovered, and we robbed
the cellar of potatoes and onions and such things, and carried them down-town to the printing-office,
where we slept on pallets on the floor, and cooked them at the stove and had very good times.

As I have indicated, Mr. S.'s economies were of a pretty close and rigid kind. By and by, when
we apprentices were promoted from the basement to the ground floor and allowed to sit at the
family table, along with the one journeyman, Harry H., the economies continued. Mrs. S. was
a bride. She had attained to that distinction very recently, after waiting a good part of a
lifetime for it, and she was the right woman in the right place, according to the economics
of the place, for she did not trust the sugar-bowl to us, but sweetened our coffee herself.
That is, she went through the motions. She didn't really sweeten it. She seemed to put one
heaping teaspoonful of brown sugar into each cup, but, according to Steve, that was a deceit.
He said she dipped the spoon in the coffee first to make the sugar stick, and then scooped
the sugar out of the bowl with the spoon upside down, so that the effect to the eye was a heaped-up
spoon, whereas the sugar on it was nothing but a layer. This all seems perfectly true to me,
and yet that thing would be so difficult to perform that I suppose it really didn't happen,
but was one of Steve's lies.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCVIII.

FEBRUARY 1, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XI.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1850.)]

[Dictated March 28th, 1906.] About 1849 or 1850 Orion severed his connection with the printing-house
in St. Louis and came up to Hannibal, and bought a weekly paper called the Hannibal "Journal,"
together with its plant and its good-will, for the sum of five hundred dollars cash. He borrowed
the cash at ten per cent. interest, from an old farmer named Johnson who lived five miles out
of town. Then he reduced the subscription price of the paper from two dollars to one dollar.
He reduced the rates for advertising in about the same proportion, and thus he created one
absolute and unassailable certainty--to wit: that the business would never pay him a single
cent of profit. He took me out of the "Courier" office and engaged my services in his own at
three dollars and a half a week, which was an extravagant wage, but Orion was always generous,
always liberal with everybody except himself. It cost him nothing in my case, for he never
was able to pay me a penny as long as I was with him. By the end of the first year he found
he must make some economies. The office rent was cheap, but it was not cheap enough. He could
not afford to pay rent of any kind, so he moved the whole plant into the house we lived in,
and it cramped the dwelling-place cruelly. He kept that paper alive during four years, but
I have at this time no idea how he accomplished it. Toward the end of each year he had to turn
out and scrape and scratch for the fifty dollars of interest due Mr. Johnson, and that fifty
dollars was about the only cash he ever received or paid out, I suppose, while he was proprietor
of that newspaper, except for ink and printing-paper. The paper was a dead failure. It had
to be that from the start. Finally he handed it over to Mr. Johnson, and went up to Muscatine,
Iowa, and acquired a small interest in a weekly newspaper there. It was not a sort of property
to marry on--but no matter. He came across a winning and pretty girl who lived in Quincy, Illinois,
a few miles below Keokuk, and they became engaged. He was always falling in love with girls,
but by some accident or other he had never gone so far as engagement before. And now he achieved
nothing but misfortune by it, because he straightway fell in love with a Keokuk girl. He married
the Keokuk girl and they began a struggle for life which turned out to be a difficult enterprise,
and very unpromising.

To gain a living in Muscatine was plainly impossible, so Orion and his new wife went to Keokuk
to live, for she wanted to be near her relatives. He bought a little bit of a job-printing
plant--on credit, of course--and at once put prices down to where not even the apprentices
could get a living out of it, and this sort of thing went on.

[Sidenote: (1853.)]

I had not joined the Muscatine migration. Just before that happened (which I think was in 1853)
I disappeared one night and fled to St. Louis. There I worked in the composing-room of the
"Evening News" for a time, and then started on my travels to see the world. The world was New
York City, and there was a little World's Fair there. It had just been opened where the great
reservoir afterward was, and where the sumptuous public library is now being built--Fifth Avenue
and Forty-second Street. I arrived in New York with two or three dollars in pocket change and
a ten-dollar bank-bill concealed in the lining of my coat. I got work at villainous wages in
the establishment of John A. Gray and Green in Cliff Street, and I found board in a sufficiently
villainous mechanics' boarding-house in Duane Street. The firm paid my wages in wildcat money
at its face value, and my week's wage merely sufficed to pay board and lodging. By and by I
went to Philadelphia and worked there some months as a "sub" on the "Inquirer" and the "Public
Ledger." Finally I made a flying trip to Washington to see the sights there, and in 1854 I
went back to the Mississippi Valley, sitting upright in the smoking-car two or three days and
nights. When I reached St. Louis I was exhausted. I went to bed on board a steamboat that was
bound for Muscatine. I fell asleep at once, with my clothes on, and didn't wake again for thirty-six
hours.

[Sidenote: (1854.)]

... I worked in that little job-office in Keokuk as much as two years, I should say, without
ever collecting a cent of wages, for Orion was never able to pay anything--but Dick Higham
and I had good times. I don't know what Dick got, but it was probably only uncashable promises.

[Sidenote: (1856.)]

One day in the midwinter of 1856 or 1857--I think it was 1856--I was coming along the main
street of Keokuk in the middle of the forenoon. It was bitter weather--so bitter that that
street was deserted, almost. A light dry snow was blowing here and there on the ground and
on the pavement, swirling this way and that way and making all sorts of beautiful figures,
but very chilly to look at. The wind blew a piece of paper past me and it lodged against a
wall of a house. Something about the look of it attracted my attention and I gathered it in.
It was a fifty-dollar bill, the only one I had ever seen, and the largest assemblage of money
I had ever encountered in one spot. I advertised it in the papers and suffered more than a
thousand dollars' worth of solicitude and fear and distress during the next few days lest the
owner should see the advertisement and come and take my fortune away. As many as four days
went by without an applicant; then I could endure this kind of misery no longer. I felt sure
that another four could not go by in this safe and secure way. I felt that I must take that
money out of danger. So I bought a ticket for Cincinnati and went to that city. I worked there
several months in the printing-office of Wrightson and Company. I had been reading Lieutenant
Herndon's account of his explorations of the Amazon and had been mightily attracted by what
he said of coca. I made up my mind that I would go to the head waters of the Amazon and collect
coca and trade in it and make a fortune. I left for New Orleans in the steamer "Paul Jones"
with this great idea filling my mind. One of the pilots of that boat was Horace Bixby. Little
by little I got acquainted with him, and pretty soon I was doing a lot of steering for him
in his daylight watches. When I got to New Orleans I inquired about ships leaving for Pará
and discovered that there weren't any, and learned that there probably wouldn't be any during
that century. It had not occurred to me to inquire about those particulars before leaving Cincinnati,
so there I was. I couldn't get to the Amazon. I had no friends in New Orleans and no money
to speak of. I went to Horace Bixby and asked him to make a pilot out of me. He said he would
do it for a hundred dollars cash in advance. So I steered for him up to St. Louis, borrowed
the money from my brother-in-law and closed the bargain. I had acquired this brother-in-law
several years before. This was Mr. William A. Moffett, a merchant, a Virginian--a fine man
in every way. He had married my sister Pamela, and the Samuel E. Moffett of whom I have been
speaking was their son. Within eighteen months I became a competent pilot, and I served that
office until the Mississippi River traffic was brought to a standstill by the breaking out
of the civil war.

... Meantime Orion had gone down the river and established his little job-printing-office in
Keokuk. On account of charging next to nothing for the work done in his job-office, he had
almost nothing to do there. He was never able to comprehend that work done on a profitless
basis deteriorates and is presently not worth anything, and that customers are then obliged
to go where they can get better work, even if they must pay better prices for it. He had plenty
of time, and he took up Blackstone again. He also put up a sign which offered his services
to the public as a lawyer. He never got a case, in those days, nor even an applicant, although
he was quite willing to transact law business for nothing and furnish the stationery himself.
He was always liberal that way.

[Sidenote: (1861.)]

Presently he moved to a wee little hamlet called Alexandria, two or three miles down the river,
and he put up that sign there. He got no custom. He was by this time very hard aground. But
by this time I was beginning to earn a wage of two hundred and fifty dollars a month as pilot,
and so I supported him thenceforth until 1861, when his ancient friend, Edward Bates, then
a member of Mr. Lincoln's first cabinet, got him the place of Secretary of the new Territory
of Nevada, and Orion and I cleared for that country in the overland stage-coach, I paying the
fares, which were pretty heavy, and carrying with me what money I had been able to save--this
was eight hundred dollars, I should say--and it was all in silver coin and a good deal of a
nuisance because of its weight. And we had another nuisance, which was an Unabridged Dictionary.
It weighed about a thousand pounds, and was a ruinous expense, because the stage-coach Company
charged for extra baggage by the ounce. We could have kept a family for a time on what that
dictionary cost in the way of extra freight--and it wasn't a good dictionary anyway--didn't
have any modern words in it--only had obsolete ones that they used to use when Noah Webster
was a child.

The Government of the new Territory of Nevada was an interesting menagerie. Governor Nye was
an old and seasoned politician from New York--politician, not statesman. He had white hair;
he was in fine physical condition; he had a winningly friendly face and deep lustrous brown
eyes that could talk as a native language the tongue of every feeling, every passion, every
emotion. His eyes could outtalk his tongue, and this is saying a good deal, for he was a very
remarkable talker, both in private and on the stump. He was a shrewd man; he generally saw
through surfaces and perceived what was going on inside without being suspected of having an
eye on the matter.

When grown-up persons indulge in practical jokes, the fact gauges them. They have lived narrow,
obscure, and ignorant lives, and at full manhood they still retain and cherish a job-lot of
left-over standards and ideals that would have been discarded with their boyhood if they had
then moved out into the world and a broader life. There were many practical jokers in the new
Territory. I do not take pleasure in exposing this fact, for I liked those people; but what
I am saying is true. I wish I could say a kindlier thing about them instead--that they were
burglars, or hat-rack thieves, or something like that, that wouldn't be utterly uncomplimentary.
I would prefer it, but I can't say those things, they would not be true. These people were
practical jokers, and I will not try to disguise it. In other respects they were plenty good-enough
people; honest people; reputable and likable. They played practical jokes upon each other with
success, and got the admiration and applause and also the envy of the rest of the community.
Naturally they were eager to try their arts on big game, and that was what the Governor was.
But they were not able to score. They made several efforts, but the Governor defeated these
efforts without any trouble and went on smiling his pleasant smile as if nothing had happened.
Finally the joker chiefs of Carson City and Virginia City conspired together to see if their
combined talent couldn't win a victory, for the jokers were getting into a very uncomfortable
place: the people were laughing at them, instead of at their proposed victim. They banded themselves
together to the number of ten and invited the Governor to what was a most extraordinary attention
in those days--pickled oyster stew and champagne--luxuries very seldom seen in that region,
and existing rather as fabrics of the imagination than as facts.

The Governor took me with him. He said disparagingly,

"It's a poor invention. It doesn't deceive. Their idea is to get me drunk and leave me under
the table, and from their standpoint this will be very funny. But they don't know me. I am
familiar with champagne and have no prejudices against it."

The fate of the joke was not decided until two o'clock in the morning. At that hour the Governor
was serene, genial, comfortable, contented, happy and sober, although he was so full that he
couldn't laugh without shedding champagne tears. Also, at that hour the last joker joined his
comrades under the table, drunk to the last perfection. The Governor remarked,

"This is a dry place, Sam, let's go and get something to drink and go to bed."

The Governor's official menagerie had been drawn from the humblest ranks of his constituents
at home--harmless good fellows who had helped in his campaigns, and now they had their reward
in petty salaries payable in greenbacks that were worth next to nothing. Those boys had a hard
time to make both ends meet. Orion's salary was eighteen hundred dollars a year, and he wouldn't
even support his dictionary on it. But the Irishwoman who had come out on the Governor's staff
charged the menagerie only ten dollars a week apiece for board and lodging. Orion and I were
of her boarders and lodgers; and so, on these cheap terms the silver I had brought from home
held out very well.

[Sidenote: ('62 or '63)]

At first I roamed about the country seeking silver, but at the end of '62 or the beginning
of '63 when I came up from Aurora to begin a journalistic life on the Virginia City "Enterprise,"
I was presently sent down to Carson City to report the legislative session. Orion was soon
very popular with the members of the legislature, because they found that whereas they couldn't
usually trust each other, nor anybody else, they could trust him. He easily held the belt for
honesty in that country, but it didn't do him any good in a pecuniary way, because he had no
talent for either persuading or scaring legislators. But I was differently situated. I was
there every day in the legislature to distribute compliment and censure with evenly balanced
justice and spread the same over half a page of the "Enterprise" every morning, consequently
I was an influence. I got the legislature to pass a wise and very necessary law requiring every
corporation doing business in the Territory to record its charter in full, without skipping
a word, in a record to be kept by the Secretary of the Territory--my brother. All the charters
were framed in exactly the same words. For this record-service he was authorized to charge
forty cents a folio of one hundred words for making the record; also five dollars for furnishing
a certificate of each record, and so on. Everybody had a toll-road franchise, but no toll-road.
But the franchise had to be recorded and paid for. Everybody was a mining corporation, and
had to have himself recorded and pay for it. Very well, we prospered. The record-service paid
an average of a thousand dollars a month, in gold.

Governor Nye was often absent from the Territory. He liked to run down to San Francisco every
little while and enjoy a rest from Territorial civilization. Nobody complained, for he was
prodigiously popular, he had been a stage-driver in his early days in New York or New England,
and had acquired the habit of remembering names and faces, and of making himself agreeable
to his passengers. As a politician this had been valuable to him, and he kept his arts in good
condition by practice. By the time he had been Governor a year, he had shaken hands with every
human being in the Territory of Nevada, and after that he always knew these people instantly
at sight and could call them by name. The whole population, of 20,000 persons, were his personal
friends, and he could do anything he chose to do and count upon their being contented with
it. Whenever he was absent from the Territory--which was generally--Orion served his office
in his place, as Acting Governor, a title which was soon and easily shortened to "Governor."
He recklessly built and furnished a house at a cost of twelve thousand dollars, and there was
no other house in the sage-brush capital that could approach this property for style and cost.

When Governor Nye's four-year term was drawing to a close, the mystery of why he had ever consented
to leave the great State of New York and help inhabit that jack-rabbit desert was solved: he
had gone out there in order to become a United States Senator. All that was now necessary was
to turn the Territory into a State. He did it without any difficulty. That undeveloped country
and that sparse population were not well fitted for the heavy burden of a State Government,
but no matter, the people were willing to have the change, and so the Governor's game was made.

Orion's game was made too, apparently, for he was as popular because of his honesty as the
Governor was for more substantial reasons; but at the critical moment the inborn capriciousness
of his character rose up without warning, and disaster followed.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCIX.

FEBRUARY 15, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1864-5.)]

Orion Clemens--resumed.

[Dictated April 5, 1906.] There were several candidates for all the offices in the gift of
the new State of Nevada save two--United States Senator, and Secretary of State. Nye was certain
to get a Senatorship, and Orion was so sure to get the Secretaryship that no one but him was
named for that office. But he was hit with one of his spasms of virtue on the very day that
the Republican party was to make its nominations in the Convention, and refused to go near
the Convention. He was urged, but all persuasions failed. He said his presence there would
be an unfair and improper influence and that if he was to be nominated the compliment must
come to him as a free and unspotted gift. This attitude would have settled his case for him
without further effort, but he had another attack of virtue on the same day, that made it absolutely
sure. It had been his habit for a great many years to change his religion with his shirt, and
his ideas about temperance at the same time. He would be a teetotaler for a while and the champion
of the cause; then he would change to the other side for a time. On nomination day he suddenly
changed from a friendly attitude toward whiskey--which was the popular attitude--to uncompromising
teetotalism, and went absolutely dry. His friends besought and implored, but all in vain. He
could not be persuaded to cross the threshold of a saloon. The paper next morning contained
the list of chosen nominees. His name was not in it. He had not received a vote.

His rich income ceased when the State government came into power. He was without an occupation.
Something had to be done. He put up his sign as attorney-at-law, but he got no clients. It
was strange. It was difficult to account for. I cannot account for it--but if I were going
to guess at a solution I should guess that by the make of him he would examine both sides of
a case so diligently and so conscientiously that when he got through with his argument neither
he nor a jury would know which side he was on. I think that his client would find out his make
in laying his case before him, and would take warning and withdraw it in time to save himself
from probable disaster.

I had taken up my residence in San Francisco about a year before the time I have just been
speaking of. One day I got a tip from Mr. Camp, a bold man who was always making big fortunes
in ingenious speculations and losing them again in the course of six months by other speculative
ingenuities. Camp told me to buy some shares in the Hale and Norcross. I bought fifty shares
at three hundred dollars a share. I bought on a margin, and put up twenty per cent. It exhausted
my funds. I wrote Orion and offered him half, and asked him to send his share of the money.
I waited and waited. He wrote and said he was going to attend to it. The stock went along up
pretty briskly. It went higher and higher. It reached a thousand dollars a share. It climbed
to two thousand, then to three thousand; then to twice that figure. The money did not come,
but I was not disturbed. By and by that stock took a turn and began to gallop down. Then I
wrote urgently. Orion answered that he had sent the money long ago--said he had sent it to
the Occidental Hotel. I inquired for it. They said it was not there. To cut a long story short,
that stock went on down until it fell below the price I had paid for it. Then it began to eat
up the margin, and when at last I got out I was very badly crippled.

When it was too late, I found out what had become of Orion's money. Any other human being would
have sent a check, but he sent gold. The hotel clerk put it in the safe and went on vacation,
and there it had reposed all this time enjoying its fatal work, no doubt. Another man might
have thought to tell me that the money was not in a letter, but was in an express package,
but it never occurred to Orion to do that.

Later, Mr. Camp gave me another chance. He agreed to buy our Tennessee land for two hundred
thousand dollars, pay a part of the amount in cash and give long notes for the rest. His scheme
was to import foreigners from grape-growing and wine-making districts in Europe, settle them
on the land, and turn it into a wine-growing country. He knew what Mr. Longworth thought of
those Tennessee grapes, and was satisfied. I sent the contracts and things to Orion for his
signature, he being one of the three heirs. But they arrived at a bad time--in a doubly bad
time, in fact. The temperance virtue was temporarily upon him in strong force, and he wrote
and said that he would not be a party to debauching the country with wine. Also he said how
could he know whether Mr. Camp was going to deal fairly and honestly with those poor people
from Europe or not?--and so, without waiting to find out, he quashed the whole trade, and there
it fell, never to be brought to life again. The land, from being suddenly worth two hundred
thousand dollars, became as suddenly worth what it was before--nothing, and taxes to pay. I
had paid the taxes and the other expenses for some years, but I dropped the Tennessee land
there, and have never taken any interest in it since, pecuniarily or otherwise, until yesterday.

I had supposed, until yesterday, that Orion had frittered away the last acre, and indeed that
was his own impression. But a gentleman arrived yesterday from Tennessee and brought a map
showing that by a correction of the ancient surveys we still own a thousand acres, in a coal
district, out of the hundred thousand acres which my father left us when he died in 1847. The
gentleman brought a proposition; also he brought a reputable and well-to-do citizen of New
York. The proposition was that the Tennesseean gentleman should sell that land; that the New
York gentleman should pay all the expenses and fight all the lawsuits, in case any should turn
up, and that of such profit as might eventuate the Tennesseean gentleman should take a third,
the New-Yorker a third, and Sam Moffett and his sister and I--who are surviving heirs--the
remaining third.

This time I hope we shall get rid of the Tennessee land for good and all and never hear of
it again.

[Sidenote: (1867.)]

[Sidenote: (1871.)]

I came East in January, 1867. Orion remained in Carson City perhaps a year longer. Then he
sold his twelve-thousand-dollar house and its furniture for thirty-five hundred in greenbacks
at about sixty per cent. discount. He and his wife took passage in the steamer for home in
Keokuk. About 1871 or '72 they came to New York. Orion had been trying to make a living in
the law ever since he had arrived from the Pacific Coast, but he had secured only two cases.
Those he was to try free of charge--but the possible result will never be known, because the
parties settled the cases out of court without his help.

Orion got a job as proof-reader on the New York "Evening Post" at ten dollars a week. By and
by he came to Hartford and wanted me to get him a place as reporter on a Hartford paper. Here
was a chance to try my scheme again, and I did it. I made him go to the Hartford "Evening Post,"
without any letter of introduction, and propose to scrub and sweep and do all sorts of things
for nothing, on the plea that he didn't need money but only needed work, and that that was
what he was pining for. Within six weeks he was on the editorial staff of that paper at twenty
dollars a week, and he was worth the money. He was presently called for by some other paper
at better wages, but I made him go to the "Post" people and tell them about it. They stood
the raise and kept him. It was the pleasantest berth he had ever had in his life. It was an
easy berth. He was in every way comfortable. But ill-luck came. It was bound to come.

A new Republican daily was to be started in a New England city by a stock company of well-to-do
politicians, and they offered him the chief editorship at three thousand a year. He was eager
to accept. My beseechings and reasonings went for nothing. I said,

"You are as weak as water. Those people will find it out right away. They will easily see that
you have no backbone; that they can deal with you as they would deal with a slave. You may
last six months, but not longer. Then they will not dismiss you as they would dismiss a gentleman:
they will fling you out as they would fling out an intruding tramp."

It happened just so. Then he and his wife migrated to Keokuk once more. Orion wrote from there
that he was not resuming the law; that he thought that what his health needed was the open
air, in some sort of outdoor occupation; that his father-in-law had a strip of ground on the
river border a mile above Keokuk with some sort of a house on it, and his idea was to buy that
place and start a chicken-farm and provide Keokuk with chickens and eggs, and perhaps butter--but
I don't know whether you can raise butter on a chicken-farm or not. He said the place could
be had for three thousand dollars cash, and I sent the money. He began to raise chickens, and
he made a detailed monthly report to me, whereby it appeared that he was able to work off his
chickens on the Keokuk people at a dollar and a quarter a pair. But it also appeared that it
cost a dollar and sixty cents to raise the pair. This did not seem to discourage Orion, and
so I let it go. Meantime he was borrowing a hundred dollars per month of me regularly, month
by month. Now to show Orion's stern and rigid business ways--and he really prided himself on
his large business capacities--the moment he received the advance of a hundred dollars at the
beginning of each month, he always sent me his note for the amount, and with it he sent, out
of that money, three months' interest on the hundred dollars at six per cent. per annum, these
notes being always for three months.

As I say, he always sent a detailed statement of the month's profit and loss on the chickens--at
least the month's loss on the chickens--and this detailed statement included the various items
of expense--corn for the chickens, boots for himself, and so on; even car fares, and the weekly
contribution of ten cents to help out the missionaries who were trying to damn the Chinese
after a plan not satisfactory to those people.

I think the poultry experiment lasted about a year, possibly two years. It had then cost me
six thousand dollars.

Orion returned to the law business, and I suppose he remained in that harness off and on for
the succeeding quarter of a century, but so far as my knowledge goes he was only a lawyer in
name, and had no clients.

[Sidenote: (1890.)]

My mother died, in her eighty-eighth year, in the summer of 1890. She had saved some money,
and she left it to me, because it had come from me. I gave it to Orion and he said, with thanks,
that I had supported him long enough and now he was going to relieve me of that burden, and
would also hope to pay back some of that expense, and maybe the whole of it. Accordingly, he
proceeded to use up that money in building a considerable addition to the house, with the idea
of taking boarders and getting rich. We need not dwell upon this venture. It was another of
his failures. His wife tried hard to make the scheme succeed, and if anybody could have made
it succeed she would have done it. She was a good woman, and was greatly liked. She had a practical
side, and she would have made that boarding-house lucrative if circumstances had not been against
her.

Orion had other projects for recouping me, but as they always required capital I stayed out
of them, and they did not materialize. Once he wanted to start a newspaper. It was a ghastly
idea, and I squelched it with a promptness that was almost rude. Then he invented a wood-sawing
machine and patched it together himself, and he really sawed wood with it. It was ingenious;
it was capable; and it would have made a comfortable little fortune for him; but just at the
wrong time Providence interfered again. Orion applied for a patent and found that the same
machine had already been patented and had gone into business and was thriving.

Presently the State of New York offered a fifty-thousand-dollar prize for a practical method
of navigating the Erie Canal with steam canal-boats. Orion worked at that thing for two or
three years, invented and completed a method, and was once more ready to reach out and seize
upon imminent wealth when somebody pointed out a defect: his steam canal-boat could not be
used in the winter-time; and in the summer-time the commotion its wheels would make in the
water would wash away the State of New York on both sides.

Innumerable were Orion's projects for acquiring the means to pay off the debt to me. These
projects extended straight through the succeeding thirty years, but in every case they failed.
During all those thirty years his well-established honesty kept him in offices of trust where
other people's money had to be taken care of, but where no salary was paid. He was treasurer
of all the benevolent institutions; he took care of the money and other property of widows
and orphans; he never lost a cent for anybody, and never made one for himself. Every time he
changed his religion the church of his new faith was glad to get him; made him treasurer at
once, and at once he stopped the graft and the leaks in that church. He exhibited a facility
in changing his political complexion that was a marvel to the whole community. Once the following
curious thing happened, and he wrote me all about it himself.

One morning he was a Republican, and upon invitation he agreed to make a campaign speech at
the Republican mass-meeting that night. He prepared the speech. After luncheon he became a
Democrat and agreed to write a score of exciting mottoes to be painted upon the transparencies
which the Democrats would carry in their torchlight procession that night. He wrote these shouting
Democratic mottoes during the afternoon, and they occupied so much of his time that it was
night before he had a chance to change his politics again; so he actually made a rousing Republican
campaign speech in the open air while his Democratic transparencies passed by in front of him,
to the joy of every witness present.

He was a most strange creature--but in spite of his eccentricities he was beloved, all his
life, in whatsoever community he lived. And he was also held in high esteem, for at bottom
he was a sterling man.

About twenty-five years ago--along there somewhere--I suggested to Orion that he write an autobiography.
I asked him to try to tell the straight truth in it; to refrain from exhibiting himself in
creditable attitudes exclusively, and to honorably set down all the incidents of his life which
he had found interesting to him, including those which were burned into his memory because
he was ashamed of them. I said that this had never been done, and that if he could do it his
autobiography would be a most valuable piece of literature. I said I was offering him a job
which I could not duplicate in my own case, but I would cherish the hope that he might succeed
with it. I recognise now that I was trying to saddle upon him an impossibility. I have been
dictating this autobiography of mine daily for three months; I have thought of fifteen hundred
or two thousand incidents in my life which I am ashamed of, but I have not gotten one of them
to consent to go on paper yet. I think that that stock will still be complete and unimpaired
when I finish these memoirs, if I ever finish them. I believe that if I should put in all or
any of those incidents I should be sure to strike them out when I came to revise this book.

Orion wrote his autobiography and sent it to me. But great was my disappointment; and my vexation,
too. In it he was constantly making a hero of himself, exactly as I should have done and am
doing now, and he was constantly forgetting to put in the episodes which placed him in an unheroic
light. I knew several incidents of his life which were distinctly and painfully unheroic, but
when I came across them in his autobiography they had changed color. They had turned themselves
inside out, and were things to be intemperately proud of. In my dissatisfaction I destroyed
a considerable part of that autobiography. But in what remains there are passages which are
interesting, and I shall quote from them here and there and now and then, as I go along.

[Sidenote: (1898.)]

While we were living in Vienna in 1898 a cablegram came from Keokuk announcing Orion's death.
He was seventy-two years old. He had gone down to the kitchen in the early hours of a bitter
December morning; he had built the fire, and had then sat down at a table to write something;
and there he died, with the pencil in his hand and resting against the paper in the middle
of an unfinished word--an indication that his release from the captivity of a long and troubled
and pathetic and unprofitable life was mercifully swift and painless.

[Dictated in 1904.] A quarter of a century ago I was visiting John Hay at Whitelaw Reid's house
in New York, which Hay was occupying for a few months while Reid was absent on a holiday in
Europe. Temporarily also, Hay was editing Reid's paper, the New York "Tribune." I remember
two incidents of that Sunday visit particularly well. I had known John Hay a good many years,
I had known him when he was an obscure young editorial writer on the "Tribune" in Horace Greely's
time, earning three or four times the salary he got, considering the high character of the
work which came from his pen. In those earlier days he was a picture to look at, for beauty
of feature, perfection of form and grace of carriage and movement. He had a charm about him
of a sort quite unusual to my Western ignorance and inexperience--a charm of manner, intonation,
apparently native and unstudied elocution, and all that--the groundwork of it native, the ease
of it, the polish of it, the winning naturalness of it, acquired in Europe where he had been
Chargé d'Affaires some time at the Court of Vienna. He was joyous and cordial, a most pleasant
comrade. One of the two incidents above referred to as marking that visit was this:

In trading remarks concerning our ages I confessed to forty-two and Hay to forty. Then he asked
if I had begun to write my autobiography, and I said I hadn't. He said that I ought to begin
at once, and that I had already lost two years. Then he said in substance this:

"At forty a man reaches the top of the hill of life and starts down on the sunset side. The
ordinary man, the average man, not to particularize too closely and say the commonplace man,
has at that age succeeded or failed; in either case he has lived all of his life that is likely
to be worth recording; also in either case the life lived is worth setting down, and cannot
fail to be interesting if he comes as near to telling the truth about himself as he can. And
he will tell the truth in spite of himself, for his facts and his fictions will work loyally
together for the protection of the reader; each fact and each fiction will be a dab of paint,
each will fall in its right place, and together they will paint his portrait; not the portrait
he thinks they are painting, but his real portrait, the inside of him, the soul of him, his
character. Without intending to lie he will lie all the time; not bluntly, consciously, not
dully unconsciously, but half-consciously-- consciousness in twilight; a soft and gentle and
merciful twilight which makes his general form comely, with his virtuous prominences and projections
discernible and his ungracious ones in shadow. His truths will be recognizable as truths, his
modifications of facts which would tell against him will go for nothing, the reader will see
the fact through the film and know his man.

"There is a subtle devilish something or other about autobiographical composition that defeats
all the writer's attempts to paint his portrait his way."

Hay meant that he and I were ordinary average commonplace people, and I did not resent my share
of the verdict, but nursed my wound in silence. His idea that we had finished our work in life,
passed the summit and were westward bound down-hill, with me two years ahead of him and neither
of us with anything further to do as benefactors to mankind, was all a mistake. I had written
four books then, possibly five. I have been drowning the world in literary wisdom ever since,
volume after volume; since that day's sun went down he has been the historian of Mr. Lincoln,
and his book will never perish; he has been ambassador, brilliant orator, competent and admirable
Secretary of State.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCX.

MARCH 1, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XIII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1847.)]

... As I have said, that vast plot of Tennessee land[6] was held by my father twenty years--intact.
When he died in 1847, we began to manage it ourselves. Forty years afterward, we had managed
it all away except 10,000 acres, and gotten nothing to remember the sales by. About 1887--possibly
it was earlier--the 10,000 went. My brother found a chance to trade it for a house and lot
in the town of Corry, in the oil regions of Pennsylvania. About 1894 he sold this property
for $250. That ended the Tennessee Land.

If any penny of cash ever came out of my father's wise investment but that, I have no recollection
of it. No, I am overlooking a detail. It furnished me a field for Sellers and a book. Out of
my half of the book I got $15,000 or $20,000; out of the play I got $75,000 or $80,000--just
about a dollar an acre. It is curious: I was not alive when my father made the investment,
therefore he was not intending any partiality; yet I was the only member of the family that
ever profited by it. I shall have occasion to mention this land again, now and then, as I go
along, for it influenced our life in one way or another during more than a generation. Whenever
things grew dark it rose and put out its hopeful Sellers hand and cheered us up, and said "Do
not be afraid--trust in me--wait." It kept us hoping and hoping, during forty years, and forsook
us at last. It put our energies to sleep and made visionaries of us--dreamers and indolent.
We were always going to be rich next year--no occasion to work. It is good to begin life poor;
it is good to begin life rich--these are wholesome; but to begin it prospectively rich! The
man who has not experienced it cannot imagine the curse of it.

My parents removed to Missouri in the early thirties; I do not remember just when, for I was
not born then, and cared nothing for such things. It was a long journey in those days, and
must have been a rough and tiresome one. The home was made in the wee village of Florida, in
Monroe county, and I was born there in 1835. The village contained a hundred people and I increased
the population by one per cent. It is more than the best man in history ever did for any other
town. It may not be modest in me to refer to this, but it is true. There is no record of a
person doing as much--not even Shakespeare. But I did it for Florida, and it shows that I could
have done it for any place--even London, I suppose.

Recently some one in Missouri has sent me a picture of the house I was born in. Heretofore
I have always stated that it was a palace, but I shall be more guarded, now.

I remember only one circumstance connected with my life in it. I remember it very well, though
I was but two and a half years old at the time. The family packed up everything and started
in wagons for Hannibal, on the Mississippi, thirty miles away. Toward night, when they camped
and counted up the children, one was missing. I was the one. I had been left behind. Parents
ought always to count the children before they start. I was having a good enough time playing
by myself until I found that the doors were fastened and that there was a grisly deep silence
brooding over the place. I knew, then, that the family were gone, and that they had forgotten
me. I was well frightened, and I made all the noise I could, but no one was near and it did
no good. I spent the afternoon in captivity and was not rescued until the gloaming had fallen
and the place was alive with ghosts.

My brother Henry was six months old at that time. I used to remember his walking into a fire
outdoors when he was a week old. It was remarkable in me to remember a thing like that, which
occurred when I was so young. And it was still more remarkable that I should cling to the delusion,
for thirty years, that I did remember it--for of course it never happened; he would not have
been able to walk at that age. If I had stopped to reflect, I should not have burdened my memory
with that impossible rubbish so long. It is believed by many people that an impression deposited
in a child's memory within the first two years of its life cannot remain there five years,
but that is an error. The incident of Benvenuto Cellini and the salamander must be accepted
as authentic and trustworthy; and then that remarkable and indisputable instance in the experience
of Helen Keller--however, I will speak of that at another time. For many years I believed that
I remembered helping my grandfather drink his whiskey toddy when I was six weeks old, but I
do not tell about that any more, now; I am grown old, and my memory is not as active as it
used to be. When I was younger I could remember anything, whether it had happened or not; but
my faculties are decaying, now, and soon I shall be so I cannot remember any but the things
that happened. It is sad to go to pieces like this, but we all have to do it.

My uncle, John A. Quarles, was a farmer, and his place was in the country four miles from Florida.
He had eight children, and fifteen or twenty negroes, and was also fortunate in other ways.
Particularly in his character. I have not come across a better man than he was. I was his guest
for two or three months every year, from the fourth year after we removed to Hannibal till
I was eleven or twelve years old. I have never consciously used him or his wife in a book,
but his farm has come very handy to me in literature, once or twice. In "Huck Finn" and in
"Tom Sawyer Detective" I moved it down to Arkansas. It was all of six hundred miles, but it
was no trouble, it was not a very large farm; five hundred acres, perhaps, but I could have
done it if it had been twice as large. And as for the morality of it, I cared nothing for that;
I would move a State if the exigencies of literature required it.

It was a heavenly place for a boy, that farm of my uncle John's. The house was a double log
one, with a spacious floor (roofed in) connecting it with the kitchen. In the summer the table
was set in the middle of that shady and breezy floor, and the sumptuous meals--well, it makes
me cry to think of them. Fried chicken, roast pig, wild and tame turkeys, ducks and geese;
venison just killed; squirrels, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, prairie-chickens; biscuits,
hot batter cakes, hot buckwheat cakes, hot "wheat bread," hot rolls, hot corn pone; fresh corn
boiled on the ear, succotash, butter-beans, string-beans, tomatoes, pease, Irish potatoes,
sweet-potatoes; buttermilk, sweet milk, "clabber"; watermelons, musk-melons, cantaloups--all
fresh from the garden--apple pie, peach pie, pumpkin pie, apple dumplings, peach cobbler--I
can't remember the rest. The way that the things were cooked was perhaps the main splendor--particularly
a certain few of the dishes. For instance, the corn bread, the hot biscuits and wheat bread,
and the fried chicken. These things have never been properly cooked in the North--in fact,
no one there is able to learn the art, so far as my experience goes. The North thinks it knows
how to make corn bread, but this is gross superstition. Perhaps no bread in the world is quite
as good as Southern corn bread, and perhaps no bread in the world is quite so bad as the Northern
imitation of it. The North seldom tries to fry chicken, and this is well; the art cannot be
learned north of the line of Mason and Dixon, nor anywhere in Europe. This is not hearsay;
it is experience that is speaking. In Europe it is imagined that the custom of serving various
kinds of bread blazing hot is "American," but that is too broad a spread; it is custom in the
South, but is much less than that in the North. In the North and in Europe hot bread is considered
unhealthy. This is probably another fussy superstition, like the European superstition that
ice-water is unhealthy. Europe does not need ice-water, and does not drink it; and yet, notwithstanding
this, its word for it is better than ours, because it describes it, whereas ours doesn't. Europe
calls it "iced" water. Our word describes water made from melted ice--a drink which we have
but little acquaintance with.

It seem a pity that the world should throw away so many good things merely because they are
unwholesome. I doubt if God has given us any refreshment which, taken in moderation, is unwholesome,
except microbes. Yet there are people who strictly deprive themselves of each and every eatable,
drinkable and smokable which has in any way acquired a shady reputation. They pay this price
for health. And health is all they get for it. How strange it is; it is like paying out your
whole fortune for a cow that has gone dry.

The farmhouse stood in the middle of a very large yard, and the yard was fenced on three sides
with rails and on the rear side with high palings; against these stood the smokehouse; beyond
the palings was the orchard; beyond the orchard were the negro quarter and the tobacco-fields.
In a corner of the front yard were a dozen lofty hickory-trees and a dozen black-walnuts, and
in the nutting season riches were to be gathered there.

Down a piece, abreast the house, stood a little log cabin against the rail fence; and there
the woody hill fell sharply away, past the barns, the corn-crib, the stables and the tobacco-curing
house, to a limpid brook which sang along over its gravelly bed and curved and frisked in and
out and here and there and yonder in the deep shade of overhanging foliage and vines--a divine
place for wading, and it had swimming-pools, too, which were forbidden to us and therefore
much frequented by us. For we were little Christian children, and had early been taught the
value of forbidden fruit.

In the little log cabin lived a bedridden white-headed slave woman whom we visited daily, and
looked upon with awe, for we believed she was upwards of a thousand years old and had talked
with Moses. The younger negroes credited these statistics, and had furnished them to us in
good faith. We accommodated all the details which came to us about her; and so we believed
that she had lost her health in the long desert trip coming out of Egypt, and had never been
able to get it back again. She had a round bald place on the crown of her head, and we used
to creep around and gaze at it in reverent silence, and reflect that it was caused by fright
through seeing Pharaoh drowned. We called her "Aunt" Hannah, Southern fashion. She was superstitious
like the other negroes; also, like them, she was deeply religious. Like them, she had great
faith in prayer, and employed it in all ordinary exigencies, but not in cases where a dead
certainty of result was urgent. Whenever witches were around she tied up the remnant of her
wool in little tufts, with white thread, and this promptly made the witches impotent.

All the negroes were friends of ours, and with those of our own age we were in effect comrades.
I say in effect, using the phrase as a modification. We were comrades, and yet not comrades;
color and condition interposed a subtle line which both parties were conscious of, and which
rendered complete fusion impossible. We had a faithful and affectionate good friend, ally and
adviser in "Uncle Dan'l," a middle-aged slave whose head was the best one in the negro quarter,
whose sympathies were wide and warm, and whose heart was honest and simple and knew no guile.
He has served me well, these many, many years. I have not seen him for more than half a century,
and yet spiritually I have had his welcome company a good part of that time, and have staged
him in books under his own name and as "Jim," and carted him all around--to Hannibal, down
the Mississippi on a raft, and even across the Desert of Sahara in a balloon--and he has endured
it all with the patience and friendliness and loyalty which were his birthright. It was on
the farm that I got my strong liking for his race and my appreciation of certain of its fine
qualities. This feeling and this estimate have stood the test of sixty years and more and have
suffered no impairment. The black face is as welcome to me now as it was then.

In my schoolboy days I had no aversion to slavery. I was not aware that there was anything
wrong about it. No one arraigned it in my hearing; the local papers said nothing against it;
the local pulpit taught us that God approved it, that it was a holy thing, and that the doubter
need only look in the Bible if he wished to settle his mind--and then the texts were read aloud
to us to make the matter sure; if the slaves themselves had an aversion to slavery they were
wise and said nothing. In Hannibal we seldom saw a slave misused; on the farm, never.

There was, however, one small incident of my boyhood days which touched this matter, and it
must have meant a good deal to me or it would not have stayed in my memory, clear and sharp,
vivid and shadowless, all these slow-drifting years. We had a little slave boy whom we had
hired from some one, there in Hannibal. He was from the Eastern Shore of Maryland, and had
been brought away from his family and his friends, half-way across the American continent,
and sold. He was a cheery spirit, innocent and gentle, and the noisiest creature that ever
was, perhaps. All day long he was singing, whistling, yelling, whooping, laughing--it was maddening,
devastating, unendurable. At last, one day, I lost all my temper, and went raging to my mother,
and said Sandy had been singing for an hour without a single break, and I couldn't stand it,
and wouldn't she please shut him up. The tears came into her eyes, and her lip trembled, and
she said something like this--

"Poor thing, when he sings, it shows that he is not remembering, and that comforts me; but
when he is still, I am afraid he is thinking, and I cannot bear it. He will never see his mother
again; if he can sing, I must not hinder it, but be thankful for it. If you were older, you
would understand me; then that friendless child's noise would make you glad."

It was a simple speech, and made up of small words, but it went home, and Sandy's noise was
not a trouble to me any more. She never used large words, but she had a natural gift for making
small ones do effective work. She lived to reach the neighborhood of ninety years, and was
capable with her tongue to the last--especially when a meanness or an injustice roused her
spirit. She has come handy to me several times in my books, where she figures as Tom Sawyer's
"Aunt Polly." I fitted her out with a dialect, and tried to think up other improvements for
her, but did not find any. I used Sandy once, also; it was in "Tom Sawyer"; I tried to get
him to whitewash the fence, but it did not work. I do not remember what name I called him by
in the book. She never could seem to get used to them; her opportunities went for nothing.
And she was always cold toward bats, too, and could not bear them; and yet I think a bat is
as friendly a bird as there is. My mother was Aunt Patsy's sister, and had the same wild superstitions.
A bat is beautifully soft and silky: I do not know any creature that is pleasanter to the touch,
or is more grateful for caressings, if offered in the right spirit. I know all about these
coleoptera, because our great cave, three miles below Hannibal, was multitudinously stocked
with them, and often I brought them home to amuse my mother with. It was easy to manage if
it was a school day, because then I had ostensibly been to school and hadn't any bats. She
was not a suspicious person, but full of trust and confidence; and when I said "There's something
in my coat pocket for you," she would put her hand in. But she always took it out again, herself;
I didn't have to tell her. It was remarkable, the way she couldn't learn to like private bats.

I think she was never in the cave in her life; but everybody else went there. Many excursion
parties came from considerable distances up and down the river to visit the cave. It was miles
in extent, and was a tangled wilderness of narrow and lofty clefts and passages. It was an
easy place to get lost in; anybody could do it--including the bats. I got lost in it myself,
along with a lady, and our last candle burned down to almost nothing before we glimpsed the
search-party's lights winding about in the distance.

"Injun Joe" the half-breed got lost in there once, and would have starved to death if the bats
had run short. But there was no chance of that; there were myriads of them. He told me all
his story. In the book called "Tom Sawyer" I starved him entirely to death in the cave, but
that was in the interest of art; it never happened. "General" Gaines, who was our first town
drunkard before Jimmy Finn got the place, was lost in there for the space of a week, and finally
pushed his handkerchief out of a hole in a hilltop near Saverton, several miles down the river
from the cave's mouth, and somebody saw it and dug him out. There is nothing the matter with
his statistics except the handkerchief. I knew him for years, and he hadn't any. But it could
have been his nose. That would attract attention.

Beyond the road where the snakes sunned themselves was a dense young thicket, and through it
a dim-lighted path led a quarter of a mile; then out of the dimness one emerged abruptly upon
a level great prairie which was covered with wild strawberry-plants, vividly starred with prairie
pinks, and walled in on all sides by forests. The strawberries were fragrant and fine, and
in the season we were generally there in the crisp freshness of the early morning, while the
dew-beads still sparkled upon the grass and the woods were ringing with the first songs of
the birds.

Down the forest slopes to the left were the swings. They were made of bark stripped from hickory
saplings. When they became dry they were dangerous. They usually broke when a child was forty
feet in the air, and this was why so many bones had to be mended every year. I had no ill-luck
myself, but none of my cousins escaped. There were eight of them, and at one time and another
they broke fourteen arms among them. But it cost next to nothing, for the doctor worked by
the year--$25 for the whole family. I remember two of the Florida doctors, Chowning and Meredith.
They not only tended an entire family for $25 a year, but furnished the medicines themselves.
Good measure, too. Only the largest persons could hold a whole dose. Castor-oil was the principal
beverage. The dose was half a dipperful, with half a dipperful of New Orleans molasses added
to help it down and make it taste good, which it never did. The next standby was calomel; the
next, rhubarb; and the next, jalap. Then they bled the patient, and put mustard-plasters on
him. It was a dreadful system, and yet the death-rate was not heavy. The calomel was nearly
sure to salivate the patient and cost him some of his teeth. There were no dentists. When teeth
became touched with decay or were otherwise ailing, the doctor knew of but one thing to do:
he fetched his tongs and dragged them out. If the jaw remained, it was not his fault.

Doctors were not called, in cases of ordinary illness; the family's grandmother attended to
those. Every old woman was a doctor, and gathered her own medicines in the woods, and knew
how to compound doses that would stir the vitals of a cast-iron dog. And then there was the
"Indian doctor"; a grave savage, remnant of his tribe, deeply read in the mysteries of nature
and the secret properties of herbs; and most backwoodsmen had high faith in his powers and
could tell of wonderful cures achieved by him. In Mauritius, away off yonder in the solitudes
of the Indian Ocean, there is a person who answers to our Indian doctor of the old times. He
is a negro, and has had no teaching as a doctor, yet there is one disease which he is master
of and can cure, and the doctors can't. They send for him when they have a case. It is a child's
disease of a strange and deadly sort, and the negro cures it with a herb medicine which he
makes, himself, from a prescription which has come down to him from his father and grandfather.
He will not let any one see it. He keeps the secret of its components to himself, and it is
feared that he will die without divulging it; then there will be consternation in Mauritius.
I was told these things by the people there, in 1896.

We had the "faith doctor," too, in those early days--a woman. Her specialty was toothache.
She was a farmer's old wife, and lived five miles from Hannibal. She would lay her hand on
the patient's jaw and say "Believe!" and the cure was prompt. Mrs. Utterback. I remember her
very well. Twice I rode out there behind my mother, horseback, and saw the cure performed.
My mother was the patient.

Dr. Meredith removed to Hannibal, by and by, and was our family physician there, and saved
my life several times. Still, he was a good man and meant well. Let it go.

I was always told that I was a sickly and precarious and tiresome and uncertain child, and
lived mainly on allopathic medicines during the first seven years of my life. I asked my mother
about this, in her old age--she was in her 88th year--and said:

"I suppose that during all that time you were uneasy about me?"

"Yes, the whole time."

"Afraid I wouldn't live?"

After a reflective pause--ostensibly to think out the facts--

"No--afraid you would."

It sounds like a plagiarism, but it probably wasn't. The country schoolhouse was three miles
from my uncle's farm. It stood in a clearing in the woods, and would hold about twenty-five
boys and girls. We attended the school with more or less regularity once or twice a week, in
summer, walking to it in the cool of the morning by the forest paths, and back in the gloaming
at the end of the day. All the pupils brought their dinners in baskets--corn-dodger, buttermilk
and other good things--and sat in the shade of the trees at noon and ate them. It is the part
of my education which I look back upon with the most satisfaction. My first visit to the school
was when I was seven. A strapping girl of fifteen, in the customary sunbonnet and calico dress,
asked me if I "used tobacco"--meaning did I chew it. I said, no. It roused her scorn. She reported
me to all the crowd, and said--

"Here is a boy seven years old who can't chaw tobacco."

By the looks and comments which this produced, I realized that I was a degraded object; I was
cruelly ashamed of myself. I determined to reform. But I only made myself sick; I was not able
to learn to chew tobacco. I learned to smoke fairly well, but that did not conciliate anybody,
and I remained a poor thing, and characterless. I longed to be respected, but I never was able
to rise. Children have but little charity for each other's defects.

As I have said, I spent some part of every year at the farm until I was twelve or thirteen
years old. The life which I led there with my cousins was full of charm, and so is the memory
of it yet. I can call back the solemn twilight and mystery of the deep woods, the earthy smells,
the faint odors of the wild flowers, the sheen of rain-washed foliage, the rattling clatter
of drops when the wind shook the trees, the far-off hammering of woodpeckers and the muffled
drumming of wood-pheasants in the remoteness of the forest, the snap-shot glimpses of disturbed
wild creatures skurrying through the grass,--I can call it all back and make it as real as
it ever was, and as blessed. I can call back the prairie, and its loneliness and peace, and
a vast hawk hanging motionless in the sky, with his wings spread wide and the blue of the vault
showing through the fringe of their end-feathers. I can see the woods in their autumn dress,
the oaks purple, the hickories washed with gold, the maples and the sumacs luminous with crimson
fires, and I can hear the rustle made by the fallen leaves as we ploughed through them. I can
see the blue clusters of wild grapes hanging amongst the foliage of the saplings, and I remember
the taste of them and the smell. I know how the wild blackberries looked, and how they tasted;
and the same with the pawpaws, the hazelnuts and the persimmons; and I can feel the thumping
rain, upon my head, of hickory-nuts and walnuts when we were out in the frosty dawn to scramble
for them with the pigs, and the gusts of wind loosed them and sent them down. I know the stain
of blackberries, and how pretty it is; and I know the stain of walnut hulls, and how little
it minds soap and water; also what grudged experience it had of either of them. I know the
taste of maple sap, and when to gather it, and how to arrange the troughs and the delivery
tubes, and how to boil down the juice, and how to hook the sugar after it is made; also how
much better hooked sugar tastes than any that is honestly come by, let bigots say what they
will. I know how a prize watermelon looks when it is sunning its fat rotundity among pumpkin-vines
and "simblins"; I know how to tell when it is ripe without "plugging" it; I know how inviting
it looks when it is cooling itself in a tub of water under the bed, waiting; I know how it
looks when it lies on the table in the sheltered great floor-space between house and kitchen,
and the children gathered for the sacrifice and their mouths watering; I know the crackling
sound it makes when the carving-knife enters its end, and I can see the split fly along in
front of the blade as the knife cleaves its way to the other end; I can see its halves fall
apart and display the rich red meat and the black seeds, and the heart standing up, a luxury
fit for the elect; I know how a boy looks, behind a yard-long slice of that melon, and I know
how he feels; for I have been there. I know the taste of the watermelon which has been honestly
come by, and I know the taste of the watermelon which has been acquired by art. Both taste
good, but the experienced know which tastes best. I know the look of green apples and peaches
and pears on the trees, and I know how entertaining they are when they are inside of a person.
I know how ripe ones look when they are piled in pyramids under the trees, and how pretty they
are and how vivid their colors. I know how a frozen apple looks, in a barrel down cellar in
the winter-time, and how hard it is to bite, and how the frost makes the teeth ache, and yet
how good it is, notwithstanding. I know the disposition of elderly people to select the specked
apples for the children, and I once knew ways to beat the game. I know the look of an apple
that is roasting and sizzling on a hearth on a winter's evening, and I know the comfort that
comes of eating it hot, along with some sugar and a drench of cream. I know the delicate art
and mystery of so cracking hickory-nuts and walnuts on a flatiron with a hammer that the kernels
will be delivered whole, and I know how the nuts, taken in conjunction with winter apples,
cider and doughnuts, make old people's tales and old jokes sound fresh and crisp and enchanting,
and juggle an evening away before you know what went with the time. I know the look of Uncle
Dan'l's kitchen as it was on privileged nights when I was a child, and I can see the white
and black children grouped on the hearth, with the firelight playing on their faces and the
shadows flickering upon the walls, clear back toward the cavernous gloom of the rear, and I
can hear Uncle Dan'l telling the immortal tales which Uncle Remus Harris was to gather into
his books and charm the world with, by and by; and I can feel again the creepy joy which quivered
through me when the time for the ghost-story of the "Golden Arm" was reached--and the sense
of regret, too, which came over me, for it was always the last story of the evening, and there
was nothing between it and the unwelcome bed.

I can remember the bare wooden stairway in my uncle's house, and the turn to the left above
the landing, and the rafters and the slanting roof over my bed, and the squares of moonlight
on the floor, and the white cold world of snow outside, seen through the curtainless window.
I can remember the howling of the wind and the quaking of the house on stormy nights, and how
snug and cozy one felt, under the blankets, listening, and how the powdery snow used to sift
in, around the sashes, and lie in little ridges on the floor, and make the place look chilly
in the morning, and curb the wild desire to get up--in case there was any. I can remember how
very dark that room was, in the dark of the moon, and how packed it was with ghostly stillness
when one woke up by accident away in the night, and forgotten sins came flocking out of the
secret chambers of the memory and wanted a hearing; and how ill chosen the time seemed for
this kind of business; and how dismal was the hoo-hooing of the owl and the wailing of the
wolf, sent mourning by on the night wind.

I remember the raging of the rain on that roof, summer nights, and how pleasant it was to lie
and listen to it, and enjoy the white splendor of the lightning and the majestic booming and
crashing of the thunder. It was a very satisfactory room; and there was a lightning-rod which
was reachable from the window, an adorable and skittish thing to climb up and down, summer
nights, when there were duties on hand of a sort to make privacy desirable.

I remember the 'coon and 'possum hunts, nights, with the negroes, and the long marches through
the black gloom of the woods, and the excitement which fired everybody when the distant bay
of an experienced dog announced that the game was treed; then the wild scramblings and stumblings
through briars and bushes and over roots to get to the spot; then the lighting of a fire and
the felling of the tree, the joyful frenzy of the dogs and the negroes, and the weird picture
it all made in the red glare--I remember it all well, and the delight that every one got out
of it, except the 'coon.

I remember the pigeon seasons, when the birds would come in millions, and cover the trees,
and by their weight break down the branches. They were clubbed to death with sticks; guns were
not necessary, and were not used. I remember the squirrel hunts, and the prairie-chicken hunts,
and the wild-turkey hunts, and all that; and how we turned out, mornings, while it was still
dark, to go on these expeditions, and how chilly and dismal it was, and how often I regretted
that I was well enough to go. A toot on a tin horn brought twice as many dogs as were needed,
and in their happiness they raced and scampered about, and knocked small people down, and made
no end of unnecessary noise. At the word, they vanished away toward the woods, and we drifted
silently after them in the melancholy gloom. But presently the gray dawn stole over the world,
the birds piped up, then the sun rose and poured light and comfort all around, everything was
fresh and dewy and fragrant, and life was a boon again. After three hours of tramping we arrived
back wholesomely tired, overladen with game, very hungry, and just in time for breakfast.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTE:

[6] 100,000 acres.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXI.

MARCH 15, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XIV.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated Thursday, December 6, 1906.]

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     Feb. 27, Sunday.

     Clara's reputation as a baby was always a fine one, mine exactly
     the contrary. One often related story concerning her braveness as a
     baby and her own opinion of this quality of hers is this. Clara and
     I often got slivers in our hands and when mama took them out with a
     much dreaded needle, Clara was always very brave, and I very
     cowardly. One day Clara got one of these slivers in her hand, a
     very bad one, and while mama was taking it out, Clara stood
     perfectly still without even wincing: I saw how brave she was and
     turning to mamma said "Mamma isn't she a brave little thing!"
     presently mamma had to give the little hand quite a dig with the
     needle and noticing how perfectly quiet Clara was about it she
     exclaimed, Why Clara! you are a brave little thing! Clara responded
     "No bodys braver but  God!"--

Clara's pious remark is the main detail, and Susy has accurately remembered its phrasing. The
three-year-older's wound was of a formidable sort, and not one which the mother's surgery would
have been equal to. The flesh of the finger had been burst by a cruel accident. It was the
doctor that sewed it up, and to all appearances it was he, and the other independent witnesses,
that did the main part of the suffering; each stitch that he took made Clara wince slightly,
but it shrivelled the others.

I take pride in Clara's remark, because it shows that although she was only three years old,
her fireside teachings were already making her a thinker--a thinker and also an observer of
proportions. I am not claiming any credit for this. I furnished to the children worldly knowledge
and wisdom, but was not competent to go higher, and so I left their spiritual education in
the hands of the mother. A result of this modesty of mine was made manifest to me in a very
striking way, some years afterward, when Jean was nine years old. We had recently arrived in
Berlin, at the time, and had begun housekeeping in a furnished apartment. One morning at breakfast
a vast card arrived--an invitation. To be precise, it was a command from the Emperor of Germany
to come to dinner. During several months I had encountered socially, on the Continent, men
bearing lofty titles; and all this while Jean was becoming more and more impressed, and awed,
and subdued, by these imposing events, for she had not been abroad before, and they were new
to her--wonders out of dreamland turned into realities. The imperial card was passed from hand
to hand, around the table, and examined with interest; when it reached Jean she exhibited excitement
and emotion, but for a time was quite speechless; then she said,

"Why, papa, if it keeps going on like this, pretty soon there won't be anybody left for you
to get acquainted with but God."

It was not complimentary to think I was not acquainted in that quarter, but she was young,
and the young jump to conclusions without reflection.

Necessarily, I did myself the honor to obey the command of the Emperor Wilhelm II. Prince Heinrich,
and six or eight other guests were present. The Emperor did most of the talking, and he talked
well, and in faultless English. In both of these conspicuousnesses I was gratified to recognize
a resemblance to myself--a very exact resemblance; no, almost exact, but not quite that--a
modified exactness, with the advantage in favor of the Emperor. My English, like his, is nearly
faultless; like him I talk well; and when I have guests at dinner I prefer to do all the talking
myself. It is the best way, and the pleasantest. Also the most profitable for the others.

I was greatly pleased to perceive that his Majesty was familiar with my books, and that his
attitude toward them was not uncomplimentary. In the course of his talk he said that my best
and most valuable book was "Old Times on the Mississippi." I will refer to that remark again,
presently.

An official who was well up in the Foreign Office at that time, and had served under Bismarck
for fourteen years, was still occupying his old place under Chancellor Caprivi. Smith, I will
call him of whom I am speaking, though that is not his name. He was a special friend of mine,
and I greatly enjoyed his society, although in order to have it it was necessary for me to
seek it as late as midnight, and not earlier. This was because Government officials of his
rank had to work all day, after nine in the morning, and then attend official banquets in the
evening; wherefore they were usually unable to get life-restoring fresh air and exercise for
their jaded minds and bodies earlier than midnight; then they turned out, in groups of two
or three, and gratefully and violently tramped the deserted streets until two in the morning.
Smith had been in the Government service, at home and abroad, for more than thirty years, and
he was now sixty years old, or close upon it. He could not remember a year in which he had
had a vacation of more than a fortnight's length; he was weary all through to the bones and
the marrow, now, and was yearning for a holiday of a whole three months--yearning so longingly
and so poignantly that he had at last made up his mind to make a desperate cast for it and
stand the consequences, whatever they might be. It was against all rules to ask for a vacation--quite
against all etiquette; the shock of it would paralyze the Chancellery; stem etiquette and usage
required another form: the applicant was not privileged to ask for a vacation, he must send
in his resignation. The chancellor would know that the applicant was not really trying to resign,
and didn't want to resign, but was merely trying in this left-handed way to get a vacation.

The night before the Emperor's dinner I helped Smith take his exercise, after midnight, and
he was full of his project. He had sent in his resignation that day, and was trembling for
the result; and naturally, because it might possibly be that the chancellor would be happy
to fill his place with somebody else, in which case he could accept the resignation without
comment and without offence. Smith was in a very anxious frame of mind; not that he feared
that Caprivi was dissatisfied with him, for he had no such fear; it was the Emperor that he
was afraid of; he did not know how he stood with the Emperor. He said that while apparently
it was Caprivi who would decide his case, it was in reality the Emperor who would perform that
service; that the Emperor kept personal watch upon everything, and that no official sparrow
could fall to the ground without his privity and consent; that the resignation would be laid
before his Majesty, who would accept it or decline to accept it, according to his pleasure,
and that then his pleasure in the matter would be communicated by Caprivi. Smith said he would
know his fate the next evening, after the imperial dinner; that when I should escort his Majesty
into the large salon contiguous to the dining-room, I would find there about thirty men--Cabinet
ministers, admirals, generals and other great officials of the Empire--and that these men would
be standing talking together in little separate groups of two or three persons; that the Emperor
would move from group to group and say a word to each, sometimes two words, sometimes ten words;
and that the length of his speech, whether brief or not so brief, would indicate the exact
standing in the Emperor's regard, of the man accosted; and that by observing this thermometer
an expert could tell, to half a degree, the state of the imperial weather in each case; that
in Berlin, as in the imperial days of Rome, the Emperor was the sun, and that his smile or
his frown meant good fortune or disaster to the man upon whom it should fall. Smith suggested
that I watch the thermometer while the Emperor went his rounds of the groups; and added that
if his Majesty talked four minutes with any person there present, it meant high favor, and
that the sun was in the zenith, and cloudless, for that man.

I mentally recorded that four-minute altitude, and resolved to see if any man there on that
night stood in sufficient favor to achieve it.

Very well. After the dinner I watched the Emperor while he passed from group to group, and
privately I timed him with a watch. Two or three times he came near to reaching the four-minute
altitude, but always he fell short a little. The last man he came to was Smith. He put his
hand on Smith's shoulder and began to talk to him; and when he finished, the thermometer had
scored seven minutes! The company then moved toward the smoking-room, where cigars, beer and
anecdotes would be in brisk service until midnight, and as Smith passed me he whispered,

"That settles it. The chancellor will ask me how much of a vacation I want, and I sha'n't be
afraid to raise the limit. I shall call for six months."

[Sidenote: (1891)]

[Sidenote: (1899)]

Smith's dream had been to spend his three months' vacation--in case he got a vacation instead
of the other thing--in one of the great capitals of the Continent--a capital whose name I shall
suppress, at present. The next day the chancellor asked him how much of a vacation he wanted,
and where he desired to spend it. Smith told him. His prayer was granted, and rather more than
granted. The chancellor augmented his salary and attached him to the German Embassy of that
selected capital, giving him a place of high dignity bearing an imposing title, and with nothing
to do except attend banquets of an extraordinary character at the Embassy, once or twice a
year. The term of his vacation was not specified; he was to continue it until requested to
come back to his work in the Foreign Office. This was in 1891. Eight years later Smith was
passing through Vienna, and he called upon me. There had been no interruption of his vacation,
as yet, and there was no likelihood that an interruption of it would occur while he should
still be among the living.

[Dictated Monday, December 17, 1906.] As I have already remarked, "Old Times on the Mississippi"
got the Kaiser's best praise. It was after midnight when I reached home; I was usually out
until toward midnight, and the pleasure of being out late was poisoned, every night, by the
dread of what I must meet at my front door--an indignant face, a resentful face, the face of
the portier. The portier was a tow-headed young German, twenty-two or three years old; and
it had been for some time apparent to me that he did not enjoy being hammered out of his sleep,
nights, to let me in. He never had a kind word for me, nor a pleasant look. I couldn't understand
it, since it was his business to be on watch and let the occupants of the several flats in
at any and all hours of the night. I could not see why he so distinctly failed to get reconciled
to it.

The fact is, I was ignorantly violating, every night, a custom in which he was commercially
interested. I did not suspect this. No one had told me of the custom, and if I had been left
to guess it, it would have taken me a very long time to make a success of it. It was a custom
which was so well established and so universally recognized, that it had all the force and
dignity of law. By authority of this custom, whosoever entered a Berlin house after ten at
night must pay a trifling toll to the portier for breaking his sleep to let him in. This tax
was either two and a half cents or five cents, I don't remember which; but I had never paid
it, and didn't know I owed it, and as I had been residing in Berlin several weeks, I was so
far in arrears that my presence in the German capital was getting to be a serious disaster
to that young fellow.

I arrived from the imperial dinner sorrowful and anxious, made my presence known and prepared
myself to wait in patience the tedious minute or two which the portier usually allowed himself
to keep me tarrying--as a punishment. But this time there was no stage-wait; the door was instantly
unlocked, unbolted, unchained and flung wide; and in it appeared the strange and welcome apparition
of the portier's round face all sunshine and smiles and welcome, in place of the black frowns
and hostility that I was expecting. Plainly he had not come out of his bed: he had been waiting
for me, watching for me. He began to pour out upon me in the most enthusiastic and energetic
way a generous stream of German welcome and homage, meanwhile dragging me excitedly to his
small bedroom beside the front door; there he made me bend down over a row of German translations
of my books and said,

"There--you wrote them! I have found it out! By God, I did not know it before, and I ask a
million pardons! That one there, the 'Old Times on the Mississippi,' is the best book you ever
wrote!"

The usual number of those curious accidents which we call coincidences have fallen to my share
in this life, but for picturesqueness this one puts all the others in the shade: that a crowned
head and a portier, the very top of an empire and the very bottom of it, should pass the very
same criticism and deliver the very same verdict upon a book of mine--and almost in the same
hour and the same breath--is a coincidence which out-coincidences any coincidence which I could
have imagined with such powers of imagination as I have been favored with; and I have not been
accustomed to regard them as being small or of an inferior quality. It is always a satisfaction
to me to remember that whereas I do not know, for sure, what any other nation thinks of any
one of my twenty-three volumes, I do at least know for a certainty what one nation of fifty
millions thinks of one of them, at any rate; for if the mutual verdict of the top of an empire
and the bottom of it does not establish for good and all the judgment of the entire nation
concerning that book, then the axiom that we can get a sure estimate of a thing by arriving
at a general average of all the opinions involved, is a fallacy.

[Dictated Monday, February 10, 1907.] Two months ago (December 6) I was dictating a brief account
of a private dinner in Berlin, where the Emperor of Germany was host and I the chief guest.
Something happened day before yesterday which moves me to take up that matter again. I mention
these things here because I shall have occasion to hark back to them presently.

[Dictated Tuesday, February 12, 1907.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Those stars indicate the long chapter which I dictated yesterday, a chapter which is much too
long for magazine purposes, and therefore must wait until this Autobiography shall appear in
book form, five years hence, when I am dead: five years according to my calculation, twenty-seven
years according to the prediction furnished me a week ago by the latest and most confident
of all the palmists who have ever read my future in my hand. The Emperor's dinner, and its
beer-and-anecdote appendix, covered six hours of diligent industry, and this accounts for the
extraordinary length of that chapter.

A couple of days ago a gentleman called upon me with a message. He had just arrived from Berlin,
where he had been acting for our Government in a matter concerning tariff revision, he being
a member of the commission appointed by our Government to conduct our share of the affair.
Upon the completion of the commission's labors, the Emperor invited the members of it to an
audience, and in the course of the conversation he made a reference to me; continuing, he spoke
of my chapter on the German language in "A Tramp Abroad," and characterized it by an adjective
which is too complimentary for me to repeat here without bringing my modesty under suspicion.
Then he paid some compliments to "The Innocents Abroad," and followed these with the remark
that my account in one of my books of certain striking phases of German student life was the
best and truest that had ever been written. By this I perceive that he remembers that dinner
of sixteen years ago, for he said the same thing to me about the student-chapter at that time.
Next he said he wished this gentleman to convey two messages to America from him and deliver
them--one to the President, the other to me. The wording of the message to me was:

"Convey to Mr. Clemens my kindest regards. Ask him if he remembers that dinner, and ask him
why he didn't do any talking."

Why, how could I talk when he was talking? He "held the age," as the poker-clergy say, and
two can't talk at the same time with good effect. It reminds me of the man who was reproached
by a friend, who said,

"I think it a shame that you have not spoken to your wife for fifteen years. How do you explain
it? How do you justify it?"

That poor man said,

"I didn't want to interrupt her."

If the Emperor had been at my table, he would not have suffered from my silence, he would only
have suffered from the sorrows of his own solitude. If I were not too old to travel, I would
go to Berlin and introduce the etiquette of my own table, which tallies with the etiquette
observable at other royal tables. I would say, "Invite me again, your Majesty, and give me
a chance"; then I would courteously waive rank and do all the talking myself. I thank his Majesty
for his kind message, and am proud to have it and glad to express my sincere reciprocation
of its sentiments.

[Dictated January 17, 1906.] ... Rev. Joseph T. Harris and I have been visiting General Sickles.
Once, twenty or twenty-five years ago, just as Harris was coming out of his gate Sunday morning
to walk to his church and preach, a telegram was put into his hand. He read it immediately,
and then, in a manner, collapsed. It said: "General Sickles died last night at midnight." [He
had been a chaplain under Sickles through the war.]

[Sidenote: (1880.)]

It wasn't so. But no matter--it was so to Harris at the time. He walked along--walked to the
church--but his mind was far away. All his affection and homage and worship of his General
had come to the fore. His heart was full of these emotions. He hardly knew where he was. In
his pulpit, he stood up and began the service, but with a voice over which he had almost no
command. The congregation had never seen him thus moved, before, in his pulpit. They sat there
and gazed at him and wondered what was the matter; because he was now reading, in this broken
voice and with occasional tears trickling down his face, what to them seemed a quite unemotional
chapter--that one about Moses begat Aaron, and Aaron begat Deuteronomy, and Deuteronomy begat
St. Peter, and St. Peter begat Cain, and Cain begat Abel--and he was going along with this,
and half crying--his voice continually breaking. The congregation left the church that morning
without being able to account for this most extraordinary thing--as it seemed to them. That
a man who had been a soldier for more than four years, and who had preached in that pulpit
so many, many times on really moving subjects, without even the quiver of a lip, should break
all down over the Begats, they couldn't understand. But there it is--any one can see how such
a mystery as that would arouse the curiosity of those people to the boiling-point.

Harris has had many adventures. He has more adventures in a year than anybody else has in five.
One Saturday night he noticed a bottle on his uncle's dressing-bureau. He thought the label
said "Hair Restorer," and he took it in his room and gave his head a good drenching and sousing
with it and carried it back and thought no more about it. Next morning when he got up his head
was a bright green! He sent around everywhere and couldn't get a substitute preacher, so he
had to go to his church himself and preach--and he did it. He hadn't a sermon in his barrel--as
it happened--of any lightsome character, so he had to preach a very grave one--a very serious
one--and it made the matter worse. The gravity of the sermon did not harmonize with the gayety
of his head, and the people sat all through it with handkerchiefs stuffed in their mouths to
try to keep down their joy. And Harris told me that he was sure he never had seen his congregation--the
whole body of his congregation--the entire body of his congregation--absorbed in interest in
his sermon, from beginning to end, before. Always there had been an aspect of indifference,
here and there, or wandering, somewhere; but this time there was nothing of the kind. Those
people sat there as if they thought, "Good for this day and train only: we must have all there
is of this show, not waste any of it." And he said that when he came down out of the pulpit
more people waited to shake him by the hand and tell him what a good sermon it was, than ever
before. And it seemed a pity that these people should do these fictions in such a place--right
in the church--when it was quite plain they were not interested in the sermon at all; they
only wanted to get a near view of his head.

Well, Harris said--no, Harris didn't say, I say, that as the days went on and Sunday followed
Sunday, the interest in Harris's hair grew and grew; because it didn't stay merely and monotonously
green, it took on deeper and deeper shades of green; and then it would change and become reddish,
and would go from that to some other color--purplish, yellowish, bluish, and so on--but it
was never a solid color. It was always mottled. And each Sunday it was a little more interesting
than it was the Sunday before--and Harris's head became famous, and people came from New York,
and Boston, and South Carolina, and Japan, and so on, to look. There wasn't seating-capacity
for all the people that came while his head was undergoing these various and fascinating mottlings.
And it was a good thing in several ways, because the business had been languishing a little,
and now a lot of people joined the church so that they could have the show, and it was the
beginning of a prosperity for that church which has never diminished in all these years.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXII.

APRIL 5, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XV.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated October 8, 1906.]

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     Papa says that if the collera comes here he will take Sour Mash to
     the mountains.

[Sidenote: (1885.)]

This remark about the cat is followed by various entries, covering a month, in which Jean,
General Grant, the sculptor Gerhardt, Mrs. Candace Wheeler, Miss Dora Wheeler, Mr. Frank Stockton,
Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge, and the widow of General Custer appear and drift in procession across
the page, then vanish forever from the Biography; then Susy drops this remark in the wake of
the vanished procession:

     Sour Mash is a constant source of anxiety, care, and pleasure to
     papa.

I did, in truth, think a great deal of that old tortoise-shell harlot; but I haven't a doubt
that in order to impress Susy I was pretending agonies of solicitude which I didn't honestly
feel. Sour Mash never gave me any real anxiety; she was always able to take care of herself,
and she was ostentatiously vain of the fact; vain of it to a degree which often made me ashamed
of her, much as I esteemed her.

Many persons would like to have the society of cats during the summer vacation in the country,
but they deny themselves this pleasure because they think they must either take the cats along
when they return to the city, where they would be a trouble and an encumbrance, or leave them
in the country, houseless and homeless. These people have no ingenuity, no invention, no wisdom;
or it would occur to them to do as I do: rent cats by the month for the summer and return them
to their good homes at the end of it. Early last May I rented a kitten of a farmer's wife,
by the month; then I got a discount by taking three. They have been good company for about
five months now, and are still kittens--at least they have not grown much, and to all intents
and purposes are still kittens, and as full of romping energy and enthusiasm as they were in
the beginning. This is remarkable. I am an expert in cats, but I have not seen a kitten keep
its kittenhood nearly so long before.

These are beautiful creatures--these triplets. Two of them wear the blackest and shiniest and
thickest of sealskin vestments all over their bodies except the lower half of their faces and
the terminations of their paws. The black masks reach down below the eyes, therefore when the
eyes are closed they are not visible; the rest of the face, and the gloves and stockings, are
snow white. These markings are just the same on both cats--so exactly the same that when you
call one the other is likely to answer, because they cannot tell each other apart. Since the
cats are precisely alike, and can't be told apart by any of us, they do not need two names,
so they have but one between them. We call both of them Sackcloth, and we call the gray one
Ashes. I believe I have never seen such intelligent cats as these before. They are full of
the nicest discriminations. When I read German aloud they weep; you can see the tears run down.
It shows what pathos there is in the German tongue. I had not noticed before that all German
is pathetic, no matter what the subject is nor how it is treated. It was these humble observers
that brought the knowledge to me. I have tried all kinds of German on these cats; romance,
poetry, philosophy, theology, market reports; and the result has always been the same--the
cats sob, and let the tears run down, which shows that all German is pathetic. French is not
a familiar tongue to me, and the pronunciation is difficult, and comes out of me encumbered
with a Missouri accent; but the cats like it, and when I make impassioned speeches in that
language they sit in a row and put up their paws, palm to palm, and frantically give thanks.
Hardly any cats are affected by music, but these are; when I sing they go reverently away,
showing how deeply they feel it. Sour Mash never cared for these things. She had many noble
qualities, but at bottom she was not refined, and cared little or nothing for theology and
the arts.

It is a pity to say it, but these cats are not above the grade of human beings, for I know
by certain signs that they are not sincere in their exhibitions of emotion, but exhibit them
merely to show off and attract attention--conduct which is distinctly human, yet with a difference:
they do not know enough to conceal their desire to show off, but the grown human being does.
What is ambition? It is only the desire to be conspicuous. The desire for fame is only the
desire to be continuously conspicuous and attract attention and be talked about.

These cats are like human beings in another way: when Ashes began to work his fictitious emotions,
and show off, the other members of the firm followed suit, in order to be in the fashion. That
is the way with human beings; they are afraid to be outside; whatever the fashion happens to
be, they conform to it, whether it be a pleasant fashion or the reverse, they lacking the courage
to ignore it and go their own way. All human beings would like to dress in loose and comfortable
and highly colored and showy garments, and they had their desire until a century ago, when
a king, or some other influential ass, introduced sombre hues and discomfort and ugly designs
into masculine clothing. The meek public surrendered to the outrage, and by consequence we
are in that odious captivity to-day, and are likely to remain in it for a long time to come.

Fortunately the women were not included in the disaster, and so their graces and their beauty
still have the enhancing help of delicate fabrics and varied and beautiful colors.

In summer we poor creatures have a respite, and may clothe ourselves in white garments; loose,
soft, and in some degree shapely; but in the winter--the sombre winter, the depressing winter,
the cheerless winter, when white clothes and bright colors are especially needed to brighten
our spirits and lift them up--we all conform to the prevailing insanity, and go about in dreary
black, each man doing it because the others do it, and not because he wants to. They are really
no sincerer than Sackcloth and Ashes. At bottom the Sackcloths do not care to exhibit their
emotions when I am performing before them, they only do it because Ashes started it. There
is such a thing as carrying conspicuousness to the point of discomfort; and if I should appear
on Fifth Avenue on a Sunday morning, at church-time, clothed as I would like to be clothed,
the churches would be vacant, and I should have all the congregations tagging after me, to
look, and secretly envy, and publicly scoff. It is the way human beings are made; they are
always keeping their real feelings shut up inside, and publicly exploiting their fictitious ones.

Next after fine colors, I like plain white. One of my sorrows, when the summer ends, is that
I must put off my cheery and comfortable white clothes and enter for the winter into the depressing
captivity of the shapeless and degrading black ones. It is mid-October now, and the weather
is growing cold up here in the New Hampshire hills, but it will not succeed in freezing me
out of these white garments, for here the neighbors are few, and it is only of crowds that
I am afraid. I made a brave experiment, the other night, to see how it would feel to shock
a crowd with these unseasonable clothes, and also to see how long it might take the crowd to
reconcile itself to them and stop looking astonished and outraged. On a stormy evening I made
a talk before a full house, in the village, clothed like a ghost, and looking as conspicuously,
all solitary and alone on that platform, as any ghost could have looked; and I found, to my
gratification, that it took the house less than ten minutes to forget about the ghost and give
its attention to the tidings I had brought.

I am nearly seventy-one, and I recognize that my age has given me a good many privileges; valuable
privileges; privileges which are not granted to younger persons. Little by little I hope to
get together courage enough to wear white clothes all through the winter, in New York. It will
be a great satisfaction to me to show off in this way; and perhaps the largest of all the satisfactions
will be the knowledge that every scoffer, of my sex, will secretly envy me and wish he dared
to follow my lead.

That mention that I have acquired new and great privileges by grace of my age, is not an uncalculated
remark. When I passed the seventieth mile-stone, ten months ago, I instantly realized that
I had entered a new country and a new atmosphere. To all the public I was become recognizably
old, undeniably old; and from that moment everybody assumed a new attitude toward me--the reverent
attitude granted by custom to age--and straightway the stream of generous new privileges began
to flow in upon me and refresh my life. Since then, I have lived an ideal existence; and I
now believe what Choate said last March, and which at the time I didn't credit: that the best
of life begins at seventy; for then your work is done; you know that you have done your best,
let the quality of the work be what it may; that you have earned your holiday--a holiday of
peace and contentment--and that thenceforth, to the setting of your sun, nothing will break
it, nothing interrupt it.

[Dictated January 22, 1907.] In an earlier chapter I inserted some verses beginning "Love Came
at Dawn" which had been found among Susy's papers after her death. I was not able to say that
they were hers, but I judged that they might be, for the reason that she had not enclosed them
in quotation marks according to her habit when storing up treasures gathered from other people.
Stedman was not able to determine the authorship for me, as the verses were new to him, but
the authorship has now been traced. The verses were written by William Wilfred Campbell, a
Canadian poet, and they form a part of the contents of his book called "Beyond the Hills of Dream."

The authorship of the beautiful lines which my wife and I inscribed upon Susy's gravestone
was untraceable for a time. We had found them in a book in India, but had lost the book and
with it the author's name. But in time an application to the editor of "Notes and Queries"
furnished me the author's name,[7] and it has been added to the verses upon the gravestone.

Last night, at a dinner-party where I was present, Mr. Peter Dunne Dooley handed to the host
several dollars, in satisfaction of a lost bet. I seemed to see an opportunity to better my
condition, and I invited Dooley, apparently disinterestedly, to come to my house Friday and
play billiards. He accepted, and I judge that there is going to be a deficit in the Dooley
treasury as a result. In great qualities of the heart and brain, Dooley is gifted beyond all
propriety. He is brilliant; he is an expert with his pen, and he easily stands at the head
of all the satirists of this generation--but he is going to walk in darkness Friday afternoon.
It will be a fraternal kindness to teach him that with all his light and culture, he does not
know all the valuable things; and it will also be a fraternal kindness to him to complete his
education for him--and I shall do this on Friday, and send him home in that perfected condition.

I possess a billiard secret which can be valuable to the Dooley sept, after I shall have conferred
it upon Dooley--for a consideration. It is a discovery which I made by accident, thirty-eight
years ago, in my father-in-law's house in Elmira. There was a scarred and battered and ancient
billiard-table in the garret, and along with it a peck of checked and chipped balls, and a
rackful of crooked and headless cues. I played solitaire up there every day with that difficult
outfit. The table was not level, but slanted sharply to the southeast; there wasn't a ball
that was round, or would complete the journey you started it on, but would always get tired
and stop half-way and settle, with a jolty wabble, to a standstill on its chipped side. I tried
making counts with four balls, but found it difficult and discouraging, so I added a fifth
ball, then a sixth, then a seventh, and kept on adding until at last I had twelve balls on
the table and a thirteenth to play with. My game was caroms--caroms solely--caroms plain, or
caroms with cushion to help--anything that could furnish a count. In the course of time I found
to my astonishment that I was never able to run fifteen, under any circumstances. By huddling
the balls advantageously in the beginning, I could now and then coax fourteen out of them,
but I couldn't reach fifteen by either luck or skill. Sometimes the balls would get scattered
into difficult positions and defeat me in that way; sometimes if I managed to keep them together,
I would freeze; and always when I froze, and had to play away from the contact, there was sure
to be nothing to play at but a wide and uninhabited vacancy.

One day Mr. Dalton called on my brother-in-law, on a matter of business, and I was asked if
I could entertain him awhile, until my brother-in-law should finish an engagement with another
gentleman. I said I could, and took him up to the billiard-table. I had played with him many
times at the club, and knew that he could play billiards tolerably well--only tolerably well--but
not any better than I could. He and I were just a match. He didn't know our table; he didn't
know those balls; he didn't know those warped and headless cues; he didn't know the southeastern
slant of the table, and how to allow for it. I judged it would be safe and profitable to offer
him a bet on my scheme. I emptied the avalanche of thirteen balls on the table and said:

"Take a ball and begin, Mr. Dalton. How many can you run with an outlay like that?"

He said, with the half-affronted air of a mathematician who has been asked how much of the
multiplication table he can recite without a break:

"I suppose a million--eight hundred thousand, anyway."

I said "You shall hove the privilege of placing the balls to suit yourself, and I want to bet
you a dollar that you can't run fifteen."

I will not dwell upon the sequel. At the end of an hour his face was red, and wet with perspiration;
his outer garments lay scattered here and there over the place; he was the angriest man in
the State, and there wasn't a rag or remnant of an injurious adjective left in him anywhere--and
I had all his small change.

When the summer was over, we went home to Hartford, and one day Mr. George Robertson arrived
from Boston with two or three hours to spare between then and the return train, and as he was
a young gentleman to whom we were in debt for much social pleasure, it was my duty, and a welcome
duty, to make his two or three hours interesting for him. So I took him up-stairs and set up
my billiard scheme for his comfort. Mine was a good table, in perfect repair; the cues were
in perfect condition; the balls were ivory, and flawless--but I knew that Mr. Robertson was
my prey, just the same, for by exhaustive tests with this outfit I had found that my limit
was thirty-one. I had proved to my satisfaction that whereas I could not fairly expect to get
more than six or eight or a dozen caroms out of a run, I could now and then reach twenty and
twenty-five, and after a long procession of failures finally achieve a run of thirty-one; but
in no case had I ever got beyond thirty-one. Robertson's game, as I knew, was a little better
than mine, so I resolved to require him to make thirty-two. I believed it would entertain him.
He was one of these brisk and hearty and cheery and self-satisfied young fellows who are brimful
of confidence, and who plunge with grateful eagerness into any enterprise that offers a showy
test of their abilities. I emptied the balls on the table and said,

"Take a cue and a ball, George, and begin. How many caroms do you think you can make out of
that layout?"

He laughed the laugh of the gay and the care-free, as became his youth and inexperience, and said,

"I can punch caroms out of that bunch a week without a break."

I said "Place the balls to suit yourself, and begin."

Confidence is a necessary thing in billiards, but overconfidence is bad. George went at his
task with much too much lightsomeness of spirit and disrespect for the situation. On his first
shot he scored three caroms; on his second shot he scored four caroms; and on his third shot
he missed as simple a carom as could be devised. He was very much astonished, and said he would
not have supposed that careful play could be needed with an acre of bunched balls in front
of a person.

He began again, and played more carefully, but still with too much lightsomeness; he couldn't
seem to learn to take the situation seriously. He made about a dozen caroms and broke down.
He was irritated with himself now, and he thought he caught me laughing. He didn't. I do not
laugh publicly at my client when this game is going on; I only do it inside--or save it for
after the exhibition is over. But he thought he had caught me laughing, and it increased his
irritation. Of course I knew he thought I was laughing privately--for I was experienced; they
all think that, and it has a good effect; it sharpens their annoyance and debilitates their play.

He made another trial and failed. Once more he was astonished; once more he was humiliated--and
as for his anger, it rose to summer-heat. He arranged the balls again, grouping them carefully,
and said he would win this time, or die. When a client reaches this condition, it is a good
time to damage his nerve further, and this can always be done by saying some little mocking
thing or other that has the outside appearance of a friendly remark--so I employed this art.
I suggested that a bet might tauten his nerves, and that I would offer one, but that as I did
not want it to be an expense to him, but only a help, I would make it small--a cigar, if he
were willing--a cigar that he would fail again; not an expensive one, but a cheap native one,
of the Crown Jewel breed, such as is manufactured in Hartford for the clergy. It set him afire
all over! I could see the blue flame issue from his eyes. He said,

"Make it a hundred!--and no Connecticut cabbage-leaf product, but Havana, $25 the box!"

I took him up, but said I was sorry to see him do this, because it did not seem to me right
or fair for me to rob him under our own roof, when he had been so kind to us. He said, with
energy and acrimony:

"You take care of your own pocket, if you'll be so good, and leave me to take care of mine."

And he plunged at the congress of balls with a vindictiveness which was infinitely contenting
to me. He scored a failure--and began to undress. I knew it would come to that, for he was
in the condition now that Mr. Dooley will be in at about that stage of the contest on Friday
afternoon. A clothes-rack will be provided for Mr. Dooley to hang his things on as fast as
he shall from time to time shed them. George raised his voice four degrees and flung out the
challenge--

"Double or quits!"

"Done," I responded, in the gentle and compassionate voice of one who is apparently getting
sorrier and sorrier.

There was an hour and a half of straight disaster after that, and if it was a sin to enjoy
it, it is no matter--I did enjoy it. It is half a lifetime ago, but I enjoy it yet, every time
I think of it George made failure after failure. His fury increased with each failure as he
scored it. With each defeat he flung off one or another rag of his raiment, and every time
he started on a fresh inning he made it "double or quits" once more. Twice he reached thirty
and broke down; once he reached thirty-one and broke down. These "nears" made him frantic,
and I believe I was never so happy in my life, except the time, a few years later, when the
Rev. J. H. Twichell and I walked to Boston and he had the celebrated conversation with the
hostler at the Inn at Ashford, Connecticut.

At last, when we were notified that Patrick was at the door to drive him to his train, George
owed me five thousand cigars at twenty-five cents apiece, and I was so sorry I could have hugged
him. But he shouted,

"Give me ten minutes more!" and added stormily, "it's double or quits again, and I'll win out
free of debt or owe you ten thousand cigars, and you'll pay the funeral expenses."

He began on his final effort, and I believe that in all my experience among both amateurs and
experts, I have never seen a cue so carefully handled in my lifetime as George handled his
upon this intensely interesting occasion. He got safely up to twenty-five, and then ceased
to breathe. So did I. He labored along, and added a point, another point, still another point,
and finally reached thirty-one. He stopped there, and we took a breath. By this time the balls
were scattered all down the cushions, about a foot or two apart, and there wasn't a shot in
sight anywhere that any man might hope to make. In a burst of anger and confessed defeat, he
sent his ball flying around the table at random, and it crotched a ball that was packed against
the cushion and sprang across to a ball against the bank on the opposite side, and counted!

His luck had set him free, and he didn't owe me anything. He had used up all his spare time,
but we carried his clothes to the carriage, and he dressed on his way to the station, greatly
wondered at and admired by the ladies, as he drove along--but he got his train.

I am very fond of Mr. Dooley, and shall await his coming with affectionate and pecuniary interest.

P.S. Saturday. He has been here. Let us not talk about it.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTE:

[7] Robert Richardson, deceased, of Australia.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXIII.

APRIL 19, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XVI.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated January 12th, 1905.] ... But I am used to having my statements discounted. My mother
began it before I was seven years old. Yet all through my life my facts have had a substratum
of truth, and therefore they were not without preciousness. Any person who is familiar with
me knows how to strike my average, and therefore knows how to get at the jewel of any fact
of mine and dig it out of its blue-clay matrix. My mother knew that art. When I was seven or
eight, or ten, or twelve years old--along there--a neighbor said to her,

"Do you ever believe anything that that boy says?"

My mother said,

"He is the well-spring of truth, but you can't bring up the whole well with one bucket"--and
she added, "I know his average, therefore he never deceives me. I discount him thirty per cent.
for embroidery, and what is left is perfect and priceless truth, without a flaw in it anywhere."

Now to make a jump of forty years, without breaking the connection: that word "embroidery"
was used again in my presence and concerning me, when I was fifty years old, one night at Rev.
Frank Goodwin's house in Hartford, at a meeting of the Monday Evening Club. The Monday Evening
Club still exists. It was founded about forty-five years ago by that theological giant, Rev.
Dr. Bushnell, and some comrades of his, men of large intellectual calibre and more or less
distinction, local or national. I was admitted to membership in it in the fall of 1871 and
was an active member thenceforth until I left Hartford in the summer of 1891. The membership
was restricted, in those days, to eighteen-- possibly twenty. The meetings began about the
1st of October and were held in the private houses of the members every fortnight thereafter
throughout the cold months until the 1st of May. Usually there were a dozen members present--sometimes
as many as fifteen. There was an essay and a discussion. The essayists followed each other
in alphabetical order through the season. The essayist could choose his own subject and talk
twenty minutes on it, from MS. or orally, according to his preference. Then the discussion
followed, and each member present was allowed ten minutes in which to express his views. The
wives of these people were always present. It was their privilege. It was also their privilege
to keep still; they were not allowed to throw any light upon the discussion. After the discussion
there was a supper, and talk, and cigars. This supper began at ten o'clock promptly, and the
company broke up and went away at midnight. At least they did except upon one occasion. In
my recent Birthday speech I remarked upon the fact that I have always bought cheap cigars,
and that is true. I have never bought costly ones.

Well, that night at the Club meeting--as I was saying--George, our colored butler, came to
me when the supper was nearly over, and I noticed that he was pale. Normally his complexion
was a clear black, and very handsome, but now it had modified to old amber. He said:

"Mr. Clemens, what are we going to do? There is not a cigar in the house but those old Wheeling
long nines. Can't nobody smoke them but you. They kill at thirty yards. It is too late to telephone--we
couldn't get any cigars out from town--what can we do? Ain't it best to say nothing, and let
on that we didn't think?"

"No," I said, "that would not be honest. Fetch out the long nines"--which he did.

I had just come across those "long nines" a few days or a week before. I hadn't seen a long
nine for years. When I was a cub pilot on the Mississippi in the late '50's, I had had a great
affection for them, because they were not only--to my mind--perfect, but you could get a basketful
of them for a cent--or a dime, they didn't use cents out there in those days. So when I saw
them advertised in Hartford I sent for a thousand at once. They came out to me in badly battered
and disreputable-looking old square pasteboard boxes, two hundred in a box. George brought
a box, which was caved in on all sides, looking the worst it could, and began to pass them
around. The conversation had been brilliantly animated up to that moment--but now a frost fell
upon the company. That is to say, not all of a sudden, but the frost fell upon each man as
he took up a cigar and held it poised in the air--and there, in the middle, his sentence broke
off. That kind of thing went on all around the table, until when George had completed his crime
the whole place was full of a thick solemnity and silence.

Those men began to light the cigars. Rev. Dr. Parker was the first man to light. He took three
or four heroic whiffs--then gave it up. He got up with the remark that he had to go to the
bedside of a sick parishioner. He started out. Rev. Dr. Burton was the next man. He took only
one whiff, and followed Parker. He furnished a pretext, and you could see by the sound of his
voice that he didn't think much of the pretext, and was vexed with Parker for getting in ahead
with a fictitious ailing client. Rev. Mr. Twichell followed, and said he had to go now because
he must take the midnight train for Boston. Boston was the first place that occurred to him,
I suppose.

It was only a quarter to eleven when they began to distribute pretexts. At ten minutes to eleven
all those people were out of the house. When nobody was left but George and me I was cheerful--I
had no compunctions of conscience, no griefs of any kind. But George was beyond speech, because
he held the honor and credit of the family above his own, and he was ashamed that this smirch
had been put upon it. I told him to go to bed and try to sleep it off. I went to bed myself.
At breakfast in the morning when George was passing a cup of coffee, I saw it tremble in his
hand. I knew by that sign that there was something on his mind. He brought the cup to me and
asked impressively,

"Mr. Clemens, how far is it from the front door to the upper gate?"

I said, "It is a hundred and twenty-five steps."

He said, "Mr. Clemens, you can start at the front door and you can go plumb to the upper gate
and tread on one of them cigars every time."

It wasn't true in detail, but in essentials it was.

The subject under discussion on the night in question was Dreams. The talk passed from mouth
to mouth in the usual serene way.

I do not now remember what form my views concerning dreams took at the time. I don't remember
now what my notion about dreams was then, but I do remember telling a dream by way of illustrating
some detail of my speech, and I also remember that when I had finished it Rev. Dr. Burton made
that doubting remark which contained that word I have already spoken of as having been uttered
by my mother, in some such connection, forty or fifty years before. I was probably engaged
in trying to make those people believe that now and then, by some accident, or otherwise, a
dream which was prophetic turned up in the dreamer's mind. The date of my memorable dream was
about the beginning of May, 1858. It was a remarkable dream, and I had been telling it several
times every year for more than fifteen years--and now I was telling it again, here in the club.

In 1858 I was a steersman on board the swift and popular New Orleans and St. Louis packet,
"Pennsylvania," Captain Kleinfelter. I had been lent to Mr. Brown, one of the pilots of the
"Pennsylvania," by my owner, Mr. Horace E. Bixby, and I had been steering for Brown about eighteen
months, I think. Then in the early days of May, 1858, came a tragic trip--the last trip of
that fleet and famous steamboat. I have told all about it in one of my books called "Old Times
on the Mississippi." But it is not likely that I told the dream in that book. It is impossible
that I can ever have published it, I think, because I never wanted my mother to know about
the dream, and she lived several years after I published that volume.

I had found a place on the "Pennsylvania" for my brother Henry, who was two years my junior.
It was not a place of profit, it was only a place of promise. He was "mud" clerk. Mud clerks
received no salary, but they were in the line of promotion. They could become, presently, third
clerk and second clerk, then chief clerk--that is to say, purser. The dream begins when Henry
had been mud clerk about three months. We were lying in port at St. Louis. Pilots and steersmen
had nothing to do during the three days that the boat lay in port in St. Louis and New Orleans,
but the mud clerk had to begin his labors at dawn and continue them into the night, by the
light of pine-knot torches. Henry and I, moneyless and unsalaried, had billeted ourselves upon
our brother-in-law, Mr. Moffet, as night lodgers while in port. We took our meals on board
the boat. No, I mean I lodged at the house, not Henry. He spent the evenings at the house,
from nine until eleven, then went to the boat to be ready for his early duties. On the night
of the dream he started away at eleven, shaking hands with the family, and said good-by according
to custom. I may mention that hand-shaking as a good-by was not merely the custom of that family,
but the custom of the region--the custom of Missouri, I may say. In all my life, up to that
time, I had never seen one member of the Clemens family kiss another one--except once. When
my father lay dying in our home in Hannibal--the 24th of March, 1847--he put his arm around
my sister's neck and drew her down and kissed her, saying "Let me die." I remember that, and
I remember the death rattle which swiftly followed those words, which were his last. These
good-bys of Henry's were always executed in the family sitting-room on the second floor, and
Henry went from that room and down-stairs without further ceremony. But this time my mother
went with him to the head of the stairs and said good-by again. As I remember it she was moved
to this by something in Henry's manner, and she remained at the head of the stairs while he
descended. When he reached the door he hesitated, and climbed the stairs and shook hands good-by
once more.

In the morning, when I awoke I had been dreaming, and the dream was so vivid, so like reality,
that it deceived me, and I thought it was real. In the dream I had seen Henry a corpse. He
lay in a metallic burial-case. He was dressed in a suit of my clothing, and on his breast lay
a great bouquet of flowers, mainly white roses, with a red rose in the centre. The casket stood
upon a couple of chairs. I dressed, and moved toward that door, thinking I would go in there
and look at it, but I changed my mind. I thought I could not yet bear to meet my mother. I
thought I would wait awhile and make some preparation for that ordeal. The house was in Locust
Street, a little above 13th, and I walked to 14th, and to the middle of the block beyond, before
it suddenly flashed upon me that there was nothing real about this--it was only a dream. I
can still feel something of the grateful upheaval of joy of that moment, and I can also still
feel the remnant of doubt, the suspicion that maybe it was real, after all. I returned to the
house almost on a run, flew up the stairs two or three steps at a jump, and rushed into that
sitting-room--and was made glad again, for there was no casket there.

We made the usual eventless trip to New Orleans--no, it was not eventless, for it was on the
way down that I had the fight with Mr. Brown[8] which resulted in his requiring that I be left
ashore at New Orleans. In New Orleans I always had a job. It was my privilege to watch the
freight-piles from seven in the evening until seven in the morning, and get three dollars for
it. It was a three-night job and occurred every thirty-five days. Henry always joined my watch
about nine in the evening, when his own duties were ended, and we often walked my rounds and
chatted together until midnight. This time we were to part, and so the night before the boat
sailed I gave Henry some advice. I said, "In case of disaster to the boat, don't lose your
head--leave that unwisdom to the passengers--they are competent--they'll attend to it. But
you rush for the hurricane-deck, and astern to one of the life-boats lashed aft the wheel-house,
and obey the mate's orders--thus you will be useful. When the boat is launched, give such help
as you can in getting the women and children into it, and be sure you don't try to get into
it yourself. It is summer weather, the river is only a mile wide, as a rule, and you can swim
that without any trouble." Two or three days afterward the boat's boilers exploded at Ship
Island, below Memphis, early one morning--and what happened afterward I have already told in
"Old Times on the Mississippi." As related there, I followed the "Pennsylvania" about a day
later, on another boat, and we began to get news of the disaster at every port we touched at,
and so by the time we reached Memphis we knew all about it.

I found Henry stretched upon a mattress on the floor of a great building, along with thirty
or forty other scalded and wounded persons, and was promptly informed, by some indiscreet person,
that he had inhaled steam; that his body was badly scalded, and that he would live but a little
while; also, I was told that the physicians and nurses were giving their whole attention to
persons who had a chance of being saved. They were short-handed in the matter of physicians
and nurses; and Henry and such others as were considered to be fatally hurt were receiving
only such attention as could be spared, from time to time, from the more urgent cases. But
Dr. Peyton, a fine and large-hearted old physician of great reputation in the community, gave
me his sympathy and took vigorous hold of the case, and in about a week he had brought Henry
around. Dr. Peyton never committed himself with prognostications which might not materialize,
but at eleven o'clock one night he told me that Henry was out of danger, and would get well.
Then he said, "At midnight these poor fellows lying here and there all over this place will
begin to mourn and mutter and lament and make outcries, and if this commotion should disturb
Henry it will be bad for him; therefore ask the physician on watch to give him an eighth of
a grain of morphine, but this is not to be done unless Henry shall show signs that he is being
disturbed."

Oh well, never mind the rest of it. The physicians on watch were young fellows hardly out of
the medical college, and they made a mistake--they had no way of measuring the eighth of a
grain of morphine, so they guessed at it and gave him a vast quantity heaped on the end of
a knife-blade, and the fatal effects were soon apparent. I think he died about dawn, I don't
remember as to that. He was carried to the dead-room and I went away for a while to a citizen's
house and slept off some of my accumulated fatigue--and meantime something was happening. He
had borrowed it without my knowledge during our last sojourn in St. Louis; and I recognized
instantly that my dream of several weeks before was here exactly reproduced, so far as these
details went--and I think I missed one detail; but that one was immediately supplied, for just
then an elderly lady entered the place with a large bouquet consisting mainly of white roses,
and in the centre of it was a red rose, and she laid it on his breast.

I told the dream there in the Club that night just as I have told it here.

Rev. Dr. Burton swung his leonine head around, focussed me with his eye, and said:

"When was it that this happened?"

"In June, '58."

"It is a good many years ago. Have you told it several times since?"

"Yes, I have, a good many times."

"How many?"

"Why, I don't know how many."

"Well, strike an average. How many times a year do you think you have told it?"

"Well, I have told it as many as six times a year, possibly oftener."

"Very well, then you've told it, we'll say, seventy or eighty times since it happened?"

"Yes," I said, "that's a conservative estimate."

"Now then, Mark, a very extraordinary thing happened to me a great many years ago, and I used
to tell it a number of times--a good many times--every year, for it was so wonderful that it
always astonished the hearer, and that astonishment gave me a distinct pleasure every time.
I never suspected that that tale was acquiring any auxiliary advantages through repetition
until one day after I had been telling it ten or fifteen years it struck me that either I was
getting old, and slow in delivery, or that the tale was longer than it was when it was born.
Mark, I diligently and prayerfully examined that tale with this result: that I found that its
proportions were now, as nearly as I could make oat, one part fact, straight fact, fact pure
and undiluted, golden fact, and twenty-four parts embroidery. I never told that tale afterwards--I
was never able to tell it again, for I had lost confidence in it, and so the pleasure of telling
it was gone, and gone permanently. How much of this tale of yours is embroidery?"

"Well," I said, "I don't know. I don't think any of it is embroidery. I think it is all just
as I have stated it, detail by detail."

"Very well," he said, "then it is all right, but I wouldn't tell it any more; because if you
keep on, it will begin to collect embroidery sure. The safest thing is to stop now."

That was a great many years ago. And to-day is the first time that I have told that dream since
Dr. Burton scared me into fatal doubts about it. No, I don't believe I can say that. I don't
believe that I ever really had any doubts whatever concerning the salient points of the dream,
for those points are of such a nature that they are pictures, and pictures can be remembered,
when they are vivid, much better than one can remember remarks and unconcreted facts. Although
it has been so many years since I have told that dream, I can see those pictures now just as
clearly defined as if they were before me in this room. I have not told the entire dream. There
was a good deal more of it. I mean I have not told all that happened in the dream's fulfilment.
After the incident in the death-room I may mention one detail, and that is this. When I arrived
in St. Louis with the casket it was about eight o'clock in the morning, and I ran to my brother-in-law's
place of business, hoping to find him there, but I missed him, for while I was on the way to
his office he was on his way from the house to the boat. When I got back to the boat the casket
was gone. He had conveyed it out to his house. I hastened thither, and when I arrived the men
were just removing the casket from the vehicle to carry it up-stairs. I stopped that procedure,
for I did not want my mother to see the dead face, because one side of it was drawn and distorted
by the effects of the opium. When I went up-stairs, there stood the two chairs--placed to receive
the coffin--just as I had seen them in my dream; and if I had arrived two or three minutes
later, the casket would have been resting upon them, precisely as in my dream of several weeks
before.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTE:

[8] See "Old Times on the Mississippi."

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXIV.

MAY 3, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XVII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     Sept. 9, '85.--Mamma is teaching Jean a little natural history
     and is making a little collection of insects for her. But mamma
     does not allow Jean to kill any insects she only collects those
     insects that are found dead. Mamma has told us all, perticularly
     Jean, to bring her all the little dead insects that she finds. The
     other day as we were all sitting at supper Jean broke into the room
     and ran triumfantly up to Mamma and presented her with a plate full
     of dead flies. Mamma thanked Jean vary enthusiastically although
     she with difficulty concealed her amusement. Just then Soar Mash
     entered the room and Jean believing her hungry asked Mamma for
     permission to give her the flies. Mamma laughingly consented and
     the flies almost immediately dissapeared.

[Monday, October 15, 1906.] Sour Hash's presence indicates that this adventure occurred at
Quarry Farm. Susy's Biography interests itself pretty exclusively with historical facts; where
they happen is not a matter of much concern to her. When other historians refer to the Bunker
Hill Monument they know it is not necessary to mention that that monument is in Boston. Susy
recognizes that when she mentions Sour Mash it is not necessary to localize her. To Susy, Sour
Mash is the Bunker Hill Monument of Quarry Farm.

Ordinary cats have some partiality for living flies, but none for dead ones; but Susy does
not trouble herself to apologize for Sour Mash's eccentricities of taste. This Biography was
for us, and Susy knew that nothing that Sour Mash might do could startle us or need explanation,
we being aware that she was not an ordinary cat, but moving upon a plane far above the prejudices
and superstitions which are law to common catdom.

Once in Hartford the flies were so numerous for a time, and so troublesome, that Mrs. Clemens
conceived the idea of paying George[9] a bounty on all the flies he might kill. The children
saw an opportunity here for the acquisition of sudden wealth. They supposed that their mother
merely wanted to accumulate dead flies, for some æsthetic or scientific reason or other, and
they judged that the more flies she could get the happier she would be; so they went into business
with George on a commission. Straightway the dead flies began to arrive in such quantities
that Mrs. Clemens was pleased beyond words with the success of her idea. Next, she was astonished
that one house could furnish so many. She was paying an extravagantly high bounty, and it presently
began to look as if by this addition to our expenses we were now probably living beyond our
income. After a few days there was peace and comfort; not a fly was discoverable in the house:
there wasn't a straggler left. Still, to Mrs. Clement's surprise, the dead flies continued
to arrive by the plateful, and the bounty expense was as crushing as ever. Then she made inquiry,
and found that our innocent little rascals had established a Fly Trust, and had hired all the
children in the neighborhood to collect flies on a cheap and unburdensome commission.

Mrs. Clemens's experience in this matter was a new one for her, but the governments of the
world had tried it, and wept over it, and discarded it, every half-century since man was created.
Any Government could have told her that the best way to increase wolves in America, rabbits
in Australia, and snakes in India, is to pay a bounty on their scalps. Then every patriot goes
to raising them.

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     Sept. 10, '85.--The other evening Clara and I brought down our
     new soap bubble water and we all blew soap bubles. Papa blew his
     soap bubles and filled them with tobacco smoke and as the light
     shone on then they took very beautiful opaline colors. Papa would
     hold them and then let us catch them in our hand and they felt
     delightful to the touch the mixture of the smoke and water had a
     singularly pleasant effect.

It is human life. We are blown upon the world; we float buoyantly upon the summer air a little
while, complacently showing off our grace of form and our dainty iridescent colors; then we
vanish with a little puff, leaving nothing behind but a memory--and sometimes not even that.
I suppose that at those solemn times when we wake in the deeps of the night and reflect, there
is not one of us who is not willing to confess that he is really only a soap-bubble, and as
little worth the making.

I remember those days of twenty-one years ago, and a certain pathos clings about them. Susy,
with her manifold young charms and her iridescent mind, was as lovely a bubble as any we made
that day--and as transitory. She passed, as they passed, in her youth and beauty, and nothing
of her is left but a heartbreak and a memory. That long-vanished day came vividly back to me
a few weeks ago when, for the first time in twenty-one years, I found myself again amusing
a child with smoke-charged soap-bubbles.

[Sidenote: (1885.)]

Susy's next date is November 29th, 1885, the eve of my fiftieth birthday. It seems a good while
ago. I must have been rather young for my age then, for I was trying to tame an old-fashioned
bicycle nine feet high. It is to me almost unbelievable, at my present stage of life, that
there have really been people willing to trust themselves upon a dizzy and unstable altitude
like that, and that I was one of them. Twichell and I took lessons every day. He succeeded,
and became a master of the art of riding that wild vehicle, but I had no gift in that direction
and was never able to stay on mine long enough to get any satisfactory view of the planet.
Every time I tried to steal a look at a pretty girl, or any other kind of scenery, that single
moment of inattention gave the bicycle the chance it had been waiting for, and I went over
the front of it and struck the ground on my head or my back before I had time to realise that
something was happening. I didn't always go over the front way; I had other ways, and practised
them all; but no matter which way was chosen for me there was always one monotonous result--the
bicycle skinned my leg and leaped up into the air and came down on top of me. Sometimes its
wires were so sprung by this violent performance that it had the collapsed look of an umbrella
that had had a misunderstanding with a cyclone. After each day's practice I arrived at home
with my skin hanging in ribbons, from my knees down. I plastered the ribbons on where they
belonged, and bound them there with handkerchiefs steeped in Pond's Extract, and was ready
for more adventures next day. It was always a surprise to me that I had so much skin, and that
it held out so well. There was always plenty, and I soon came to understand that the supply
was going to remain sufficient for all my needs. It turned out that I had nine skins, in layers,
one on top of the other like the leaves of a book, and some of the doctors said it was quite
remarkable.

I was full of enthusiasm over this insane amusement. My teacher was a young German from the
bicycle factory, a gentle, kindly, patient creature, with a pathetically grave face. He never
smiled; he never made a remark; he always gathered me tenderly up when I plunged off, and helped
me on again without a word. When he had been teaching me twice a day for three weeks I introduced
a new gymnastic--one that he had never seen before--and so at last a compliment was wrung from
him, a thing which I had been risking my life for days to achieve. He gathered me up and said
mournfully: "Mr. Clemens, you can fall off a bicycle in more different ways than any person
I ever saw before."

[Sidenote: (1849.)]

A boy's life is not all comedy; much of the tragic enters into it. The drunken tramp--mentioned
in "Tom Sawyer" or "Huck Finn"--who was burned up in the village jail, lay upon my conscience
a hundred nights afterward and filled them with hideous dreams--dreams in which I saw his appealing
face as I had seen it in the pathetic reality, pressed against the window-bars, with the red
hell glowing behind him--a face which seemed to say to me, "If you had not give me the matches,
this would not have happened; you are responsible for my death." I was not responsible for
it, for I had meant him no harm, but only good, when I let him have the matches; but no matter,
mine was a trained Presbyterian conscience, and knew but the one duty--to hunt and harry its
slave upon all pretexts and on all occasions; particularly when there was no sense or reason
in it. The tramp--who was to blame--suffered ten minutes; I, who was not to blame, suffered
three months.

The shooting down of poor old Smarr in the main street[10] at noonday supplied me with some
more dreams; and in them I always saw again the grotesque closing picture--the great family
Bible spread open on the profane old man's breast by some thoughtful idiot, and rising and
sinking to the labored breathings, and adding the torture of its leaden weight to the dying
struggles. We are curiously made. In all the throng of gaping and sympathetic onlookers there
was not one with common sense enough to perceive that an anvil would have been in better taste
there than the Bible, less open to sarcastic criticism, and swifter in its atrocious work.
In my nightmares I gasped and struggled for breath under the crush of that vast book for many
a night.

All within the space of a couple of years we had two or three other tragedies, and I had the
ill-luck to be too near by on each occasion. There was the slave man who was struck down with
a chunk of slag for some small offence; I saw him die. And the young California emigrant who
was stabbed with a bowie knife by a drunken comrade: I saw the red life gush from his breast.
And the case of the rowdy young Hyde brothers and their harmless old uncle: one of them held
the old man down with his knees on his breast while the other one tried repeatedly to kill
him with an Allen revolver which wouldn't go off. I happened along just then, of course.

Then there was the case of the young California emigrant who got drunk and proposed to raid
the "Welshman's house" all alone one dark and threatening night.[11] This house stood half-way
up Holliday's Hill ("Cardiff" Hill), and its sole occupants were a poor but quite respectable
widow and her young and blameless daughter. The invading ruffian woke the whole village with
his ribald yells and coarse challenges and obscenities. I went up there with a comrade--John
Briggs, I think--to look and listen. The figure of the man was dimly risible; the women were
on their porch, but not visible in the deep shadow of its roof, but we heard the elder woman's
voice. She had loaded an old musket with slugs, and she warned the man that if he stayed where
he was while she counted ten it would cost him his life. She began to count, slowly: he began
to laugh. He stopped laughing at "six"; then through the deep stillness, in a steady voice,
followed the rest of the tale: "seven ... eight ... nine"--a long pause, we holding our breath--"ten!"
A red spout of flame gushed out into the night, and the man dropped, with his breast riddled
to rags. Then the rain and the thunder burst loose and the waiting town swarmed up the hill
in the glare of the lightning like an invasion of ants. Those people saw the rest; I had had
my share and was satisfied. I went home to dream, and was not disappointed.

My teaching and training enabled me to see deeper into these tragedies than an ignorant person
could have done. I knew what they were for. I tried to disguise it from myself, but down in
the secret deeps of my heart I knew--and I knew that I knew. They were inventions of Providence
to beguile me to a better life. It sounds curiously innocent and conceited, now, but to me
there was nothing strange about it; it was quite in accordance with the thoughtful and judicious
ways of Providence as I understood them. It would not have surprised me, nor even over-flattered
me, if Providence had killed off that whole community in trying to save an asset like me. Educated
as I had been, it would have seemed just the thing, and well worth the expense. Why Providence
should take such an anxious interest in such a property--that idea never entered my head, and
there was no one in that simple hamlet who would have dreamed of putting it there. For one
thing, no one was equipped with it.

It is quite true I took all the tragedies to myself; and tallied them off, in turn as they
happened, saying to myself in each case, with a sigh, "Another one gone--and on my account;
this ought to bring me to repentance; His patience will not always endure." And yet privately
I believed it would. That is, I believed it in the daytime; but not in the night. With the
going down of the sun my faith failed, and the clammy fears gathered about my heart. It was
then that I repented. Those were awful nights, nights of despair, nights charged with the bitterness
of death. After each tragedy I recognized the warning and repented; repented and begged; begged
like a coward, begged like a dog; and not in the interest of those poor people who had been
extinguished for my sake, but only in my own interest. It seems selfish, when I look back on
it now.

My repentances were very real, very earnest; and after each tragedy they happened every night
for a long time. But as a rule they could not stand the daylight. They faded out and shredded
away and disappeared in the glad splendor of the sun. They were the creatures of fear and darkness,
and they could not live out of their own place. The day gave me cheer and peace, and at night
I repented again. In all my boyhood life I am not sure that I ever tried to lead a better life
in the daytime--or wanted to. In my age I should never think of wishing to do such a thing.
But in my age, as in my youth, night brings me many a deep remorse. I realize that from the
cradle up I have been like the rest of the race--never quite sane in the night. When "Injun
Joe" died.[12] ... But never mind: in another chapter I have already described what a raging
hell of repentance I passed through then. I believe that for months I was as pure as the driven
snow. After dark.

It was back in those far-distant days--1848 or '9--that Jim Wolf came to us. He was from Shelbyville,
a hamlet thirty or forty miles back in the country, and he brought all his native sweetnesses
and gentlenesses and simplicities with him. He was approaching seventeen, a grave and slender
lad, trustful, honest, a creature to love and cling to. And he was incredibly bashful.

It is to this kind that untoward things happen. My sister gave a "candy-pull" on a winter's
night. I was too young to be of the company, and Jim was too diffident. I was sent up to bed
early, and Jim followed of his own motion. His room was in the new part of the house, and his
window looked out on the roof of the L annex. That roof was six inches deep in snow, and the
snow had an ice-crust upon it which was as slick as glass. Out of the comb of the roof projected
a short chimney, a common resort for sentimental cats on moonlight nights--and this was a moonlight
night. Down at the eaves, below the chimney, a canopy of dead vines spread away to some posts,
making a cozy shelter, and after an hour or two the rollicking crowd of young ladies and gentlemen
grouped themselves in its shade, with their saucers of liquid and piping-hot candy disposed
about them on the frozen ground to cool. There was joyous chaffing and joking and laughter--peal
upon peal of it.

About this time a couple of old disreputable tom-cats got up on the chimney and started a heated
argument about something; also about this time I gave up trying to get to sleep, and went visiting
to Jim's room. He was awake and fuming about the cats and their intolerable yowling. I asked
him, mockingly, why he didn't climb out and drive them away. He was nettled, and said over-boldly
that for two cents he would.

It was a rash remark, and was probably repented of before it was fairly out of his mouth. But
it was too late--he was committed. I knew him; and I knew he would rather break his neck than
back down, if I egged him on judiciously.

"Oh, of course you would! Who's doubting it?"

It galled him, and he burst out, with sharp irritation--

"Maybe you doubt it!"

"I? Oh no, I shouldn't think of such a thing. You are always doing wonderful things. With your
mouth."

He was in a passion, now. He snatched on his yarn socks and began to raise the window, saying
in a voice unsteady with anger--

"You think I dasn't--you do! Think what you blame please--I don't care what you think. I'll
show you!"

The window made him rage; it wouldn't stay up. I said--

"Never mind, I'll hold it."

Indeed, I would have done anything to help. I was only a boy, and was already in a radiant
heaven of anticipation. He climbed carefully out, clung to the window-sill until his feet were
safely placed, then began to pick his perilous way on all fours along the glassy comb, a foot
and a hand on each side of it. I believe I enjoy it now as much as I did then: yet it is a
good deal over fifty years ago. The frosty breeze flapped his short shirt about his lean legs;
the crystal roof shone like polished marble in the intense glory of the moon; the unconscious
cats sat erect upon the chimney, alertly watching each other, lashing their tails and pouring
out their hollow grievances; and slowly and cautiously Jim crept on, flapping as he went, the
gay and frolicsome young creatures under the vine-canopy unaware, and outraging these solemnities
with their misplaced laughter. Every time Jim slipped I had a hope; but always on he crept
and disappointed it. At last he was within reaching distance. He paused, raised himself carefully
up, measured his distance deliberately, then made a frantic grab at the nearest cat--and missed.
Of course he lost his balance. His heels flew up, he struck on his back, and like a rocket
he darted down the roof feet first, crashed through the dead vines and landed in a sitting
posture in fourteen saucers of red-hot candy, in the midst of all that party--and dressed as
he was: this lad who could not look a girl in the face with his clothes on. There was a wild
scramble and a storm of shrieks, and Jim fled up the stairs, dripping broken crockery all the way.

[Sidenote: (1867.)]

The incident was ended. But I was not done with it yet, though I supposed I was. Eighteen or
twenty years later I arrived in New York from California, and by that time I had failed in
all my other undertakings and had stumbled into literature without intending it. This was early
in 1867. I was offered a large sum to write something for the "Sunday Mercury," and I answered
with the tale of "Jim Wolf and the Cats." I also collected the money for it--twenty-five dollars.
It seemed over-pay, but I did not say anything about that, for I was not so scrupulous then
as I am now.

A year or two later "Jim Wolf and the Cats" appeared in a Tennessee paper in a new dress--as
to spelling; spelling borrowed from Artemus Ward. The appropriator of the tale had a wide reputation
in the West, and was exceedingly popular. Deservedly so, I think. He wrote some of the breeziest
and funniest things I have ever read, and did his work with distinguished ease and fluency.
His name has passed out of my memory.

A couple of years went by; then the original story--my own version--cropped up again and went
floating around in the spelling, and with my name to it. Soon first one paper and then another
fell upon me rigorously for "stealing" Jim Wolf and the Cats from the Tennessee man. I got
a merciless beating, but I did not mind it. It's all in the game. Besides, I had learned, a
good while before that, that it is not wise to keep the fire going under a slander unless you
can get some large advantage out of keeping it alive. Few slanders can stand the wear of silence.

[Sidenote: (1873.)]

[Sidenote: (1900.)]

But I was not done with Jim and the Cats yet. In 1873 I was lecturing in London, in the Queen's
Concert Rooms, Hanover Square, and was living at the Langham Hotel, Portland place. I had no
domestic household, and no official household except George Dolby, lecture-agent, and Charles
Warren Stoddard, the California poet, now (1900) Professor of English Literature in the Roman
Catholic University, Washington. Ostensibly Stoddard was my private secretary; in reality he
was merely my comrade--I hired him in order to have his company. As secretary there was nothing
for him to do except to scrap-book the daily reports of the great trial of the Tichborne Claimant
for perjury. But he made a sufficient job out of that, for the reports filled six columns a
day and he usually postponed the scrap-booking until Sunday; then he had 36 columns to cut
out and paste in--a proper labor for Hercules. He did his work well, but if he had been older
and feebler it would have killed him once a week. Without doubt he does his literary lectures
well, but also without doubt he prepares them fifteen minutes before he is due on his platform
and thus gets into them a freshness and sparkle which they might lack if they underwent the
staling process of overstudy.

He was good company when he was awake. He was refined, sensitive, charming, gentle, generous,
honest himself and unsuspicious of other people's honesty, and I think he was the purest male
I have known, in mind and speech. George Dolby was something of a contrast to him, but the
two were very friendly and sociable together, nevertheless. Dolby was large and ruddy, full
of life and strength and spirits, a tireless and energetic talker, and always overflowing with
good-nature and bursting with jollity. It was a choice and satisfactory menagerie, this pensive
poet and this gladsome gorilla. An indelicate story was a sharp distress to Stoddard; Dolby
told him twenty-five a day. Dolby always came home with us after the lecture, and entertained
Stoddard till midnight. Me too. After he left, I walked the floor and talked, and Stoddard
went to sleep on the sofa. I hired him for company.

Dolby had been agent for concerts, and theatres, and Charles Dickens and all sorts of shows
and "attractions" for many years; he had known the human being in many aspects, and he didn't
much believe in him. But the poet did. The waifs and estrays found a friend in Stoddard: Dolby
tried to persuade him that he was dispensing his charities unworthily, but he was never able
to succeed.

One night a young American got access to Stoddard at the Concert Rooms and told him a moving
tale. He said he was living on the Surrey side, and for some strange reason his remittances
had failed to arrive from home; he had no money, he was out of employment, and friendless;
his girl-wife and his new baby were actually suffering for food; for the love of heaven could
he lend him a sovereign until his remittances should resume? Stoddard was deeply touched, and
gave him a sovereign on my account. Dolby scoffed, but Stoddard stood his ground. Each told
me his story later in the evening, and I backed Stoddard's judgment. Dolby said we were women
in disguise, and not a sane kind of women, either.

The next week the young man came again. His wife was ill with the pleurisy, the baby had the
bots, or something, I am not sure of the name of the disease; the doctor and the drugs had
eaten up the money, the poor little family was starving. If Stoddard "in the kindness of his
heart could only spare him another sovereign," etc., etc. Stoddard was much moved, and spared
him a sovereign for me. Dolby was outraged. He spoke up and said to the customer--

"Now, young man, you are going to the hotel with us and state your case to the other member
of the family. If you don't make him believe in you I sha'n't honor this poet's drafts in your
interest any longer, for I don't believe in you myself."

The young man was quite willing. I found no fault in him. On the contrary, I believed in him
at once, and was solicitous to heal the wounds inflicted by Dolby's too frank incredulity;
therefore I did everything I could think of to cheer him up and entertain him and make him
feel at home and comfortable. I spun many yarns; among others the tale of Jim Wolf and the
Cats. Learning that he had done something in a small way in literature, I offered to try to
find a market for him in that line. His face lighted joyfully at that, and he said that if
I could only sell a small manuscript to Tom Hood's Annual for him it would be the happiest
event of his sad life and he would hold me in grateful remembrance always. That was a most
pleasant night for three of us, but Dolby was disgusted and sarcastic.

Next week the baby died. Meantime I had spoken to Tom Hood and gained his sympathy. The young
man had sent his manuscript to him, and the very day the child died the money for the MS. came--three
guineas. The young man came with a poor little strip of crape around his arm and thanked me,
and said that nothing could have been more timely than that money, and that his poor little
wife was grateful beyond words for the service I had rendered. He wept, and in fact Stoddard
and I wept with him, which was but natural. Also Dolby wept. At least he wiped his eyes and
wrung out his handkerchief, and sobbed stertorously and made other exaggerated shows of grief.
Stoddard and I were ashamed of Dolby, and tried to make the young man understand that he meant
no harm, it was only his way. The young man said sadly that he was not minding it, his grief
was too deep for other hurts; that he was only thinking of the funeral, and the heavy expenses
which--

We cut that short and told him not to trouble about it, leave it all to us; send the bills
to Mr. Dolby and--

"Yes," said Dolby, with a mock tremor in his voice, "send them to me, and I will pay them.
What, are you going? You must not go alone in your worn and broken condition; Mr. Stoddard
and I will go with you. Come, Stoddard. We will comfort the bereaved mamma and get a lock of
the baby's hair."

It was shocking. We were ashamed of him again, and said so. But he was not disturbed. He said--

"Oh, I know this kind, the woods are full of them. I'll make this offer: if he will show me
his family I will give him twenty pounds. Come!" The young man said he would not remain to
be insulted; and he said good-night and took his hat. But Dolby said he would go with him,
and stay by him until he found the family. Stoddard went along to soothe the young man and
modify Dolby. They drove across the river and all over Southwark, but did not find the family.
At last the young man confessed there wasn't any.

The thing he sold to Tom Hood's Annual was "Jim and the Cats." And he did not put my name to it.

So that small tale was sold three times. I am selling it again, now. It is one of the best
properties I have come across.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The colored butler.

[10] See "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."

[11] Used in "Huck Finn," I think.

[12] Used in "Tom Sawyer."

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXV.

MAY 17, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XVIII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated December 21, 1906.] I wish to insert here some pages of Susy's Biography of me in
which the biographer does not scatter, according to her custom, but sticks pretty steadily
to a single subject until she has fought it to a finish:

     Feb. 27, '86.--Last summer while we were in Elmira an article
     came out in the "Christian Union" by name "What ought he to have
     done" treating of the government of children, or rather giving an
     account of a fathers battle with his little baby boy, by the mother
     of the child and put in the form of a question as to whether the
     father disciplined the child corectly or not, different people
     wrote their opinions of the fathers behavior, and told what they
     thought he should have done. Mamma had long known how to disciplin
     children, for in fact the bringing up of children had been one of
     her specialties for many years. She had a great many theories, but
     one of them was, that if a child was big enough to be nauty, it was
     big enough to be whipped and here we all agreed with her. I
     remember one morning when Dr. ---- came up to the farm he had a
     long discussion with mamma, upon the following topic. Mamma gave
     this as illustrative of one important rule for punishing a child.
     She said we will suppose the boy has thrown a handkerchief onto the
     floor, I tell him to pick it up, he refuses. I tell him again, he
     refuses. Then I say you must either pick up the handkerchief or
     have a whipping. My theory is never to make a child have a whipping
     and pick up the handkerchief too. I say "If you do not pick it up,
     I must punish you," if he doesn't he gets the whipping, but I
     pick up the handkerchief, if he does he gets no punishment. I tell
     him to do a thing if he disobeys me he is punished for so doing,
     but not forced to obey me afterwards.

     When Clara and I had been very nauty or were being very nauty, the
     nurse would go and call Mamma and she would appear suddenly and
     look at us (she had a way of looking at us when she was displeased
     as if she could see right through us) till we were ready to sink
     through the floor from embarasment, and total absence of knowing
     what to say. This look was usually followed with "Clara" or "Susy
     what do you mean by this? do you want to come to the bath-room with
     me?" Then followed the climax for Clara and I both new only too
     well what going to the bath-room meant.

     But mamma's first and foremost object was to make the child
     understand that he is being punished for his sake, and because
     the mother so loves him that she cannot allow him to do wrong; also
     that it is as hard for her to punish him as for him to be punished
     and even harder. Mamma never allowed herself to punish us when she
     was angry with us she never struck us because she was enoyed at us
     and felt like striking us if we had been nauty and had enoyed her,
     so that she thought she felt or would show the least bit of temper
     toward us while punnishing us, she always postponed the punishment
     until she was no more chafed by our behavior. She never humored
     herself by striking or punishing us because or while she was the
     least bit enoyed with us.

     Our very worst nautinesses were punished by being taken to the
     bath-room and being whipped by the paper cutter. But after the
     whipping was over, mamma did not allow us to leave her until we
     were perfectly happy, and perfectly understood why we had been
     whipped. I never remember having felt the least bit bitterly toward
     mamma for punishing me. I always felt I had deserved my punishment,
     and was much happier for having received it. For after mamma had
     punished us and shown her displeasure, she showed no signs of
     further displeasure, but acted as if we had not displeased her in
     any way.

Ordinary punishments answered very well for Susy. She was a thinker, and would reason out the
purpose of them, apply the lesson, and achieve the reform required. But it was much less easy
to devise punishments that would reform Clara. This was because she was a philosopher who was
always turning her attention to finding something good and satisfactory and entertaining in
everything that came her way; consequently it was sometimes pretty discouraging to the troubled
mother to find that after all her pains and thought in inventing what she meant to be a severe
and reform-compelling punishment, the child had entirely missed the severities through her
native disposition to get interest and pleasure out of them as novelties. The mother, in her
anxiety to find a penalty that would take sharp hold and do its work effectively, at last resorted,
with a sore heart, and with a reproachful conscience, to that punishment which the incorrigible
criminal in the penitentiary dreads above all the other punitive miseries which the warden
inflicts upon him for his good--solitary confinement in the dark chamber. The grieved and worried
mother shut Clara up in a very small clothes-closet and went away and left her there--for fifteen
minutes--it was all that the mother-heart could endure. Then she came softly back and listened--listened
for the sobs, but there weren't any; there were muffled and inarticulate sounds, but they could
not be construed into sobs. The mother waited half an hour longer; by that time she was suffering
so intensely with sorrow and compassion for the little prisoner that she was not able to wait
any longer for the distressed sounds which she had counted upon to inform her when there had
been punishment enough and the reform accomplished. She opened the closet to set the prisoner
free and take her back into her loving favor and forgiveness, but the result was not the one
expected. The captive had manufactured a fairy cavern out of the closet, and friendly fairies
out of the clothes hanging from the hooks, and was having a most sinful and unrepentant good
time, and requested permission to spend the rest of the day there!

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     But Mamma's oppinions and ideas upon the subject of bringing up
     children has always been more or less of a joke in our family,
     perticularly since Papa's article in the "Christian Union," and I
     am sure Clara and I have related the history of our old family
     paper-cutter, our punishments and privations with rather more pride
     and triumph than any other sentiment, because of Mamma's way of
     rearing us.

     When the article "What ought he to have done?" came out Mamma read
     it, and was very much interested in it. And when papa heard that
     she had read it he went to work and secretly wrote his opinion of
     what the father ought to have done. He told Aunt Susy, Clara and I,
     about it but mamma was not to see it or hear any thing about it
     till it came out. He gave it to Aunt Susy to read, and after Clara
     and I had gone up to get ready for bed he brought it up for us to
     read. He told what he thought the father ought to have done by
     telling what mamma would have done. The article was a beautiful
     tribute to mamma and every word in it true. But still in writing
     about mamma he partly forgot that the article was going to be
     published, I think, and expressed himself more fully than he would
     do the second time he wrote it; I think the article has done and
     will do a great deal of good, and I think it would have been
     perfect for the family and friend's enjoyment, but a little bit too
     private to have been published as it was. And Papa felt so too,
     because the very next day or a few days after, he went down to New
     York to see if he couldn't get it back before it was published but
     it was too late, and he had to return without it.

     Clara and I had great fun the night papa gave it to us to read and
     then hide, so mamma couldn't see it, for just as we were in the
     midst of reading it mamma appeared, papa following anxiously and
     asked why we were not in bed? then a scuffle ensued for we told her
     it was a secret and tried to hide it; but she chased us wherever we
     went, till she thought it was time for us to go to bed, then she
     surendered and left us to tuck it under Clara's matress.

     A little while after the article was published letters began to
     come in to papa crittisizing it, there were some very pleasant ones
     but a few very disagreable. One of these, the very worst, mamma got
     hold of and read, to papa's great regret, it was full of the most
     disagreble things, and so very enoying to papa that he for a time
     felt he must do something to show the author of it his great
     displeasure at being so insulted. But he finally decided not to,
     because he felt the man had some cause for feeling enoyed at, for
     papa had spoken of him, (he was the baby's father) rather
     slightingly in his Christian Union Article.

     After all this, papa and mamma both wished I think they might never
     hear or be spoken to on the subject of the Christian Union article,
     and whenever any has spoken to me and told me "How much they did
     enjoy my father's article in the Christian Union" I almost laughed
     in their faces when I remembered what a great variety of oppinions
     had been expressed upon the subject of the Christian Union article
     of papa's.

     The article was written in July or August and just the other day
     papa received quite a bright letter from a gentleman who has read
     the C. U. article and gave his opinion of it in these words.

It is missing. She probably put the letter between the leaves of the Biography and it got lost
out. She threw away the hostile letters, but tried to keep the pleasantest one for her book;
surely there has been no kindlier biographer than this one. Yet to a quite creditable degree
she is loyal to the responsibilities of her position as historian--not eulogist--and honorably
gives me a quiet prod now and then. But how many, many, many she has withheld that I deserved!
I could prize them now; there would be no acid in her words, and it is loss to me that she
did not set them all down. Oh, Susy, you sweet little biographer, you break my old heart with
your gentle charities!

I think a great deal of her work. Her canvases are on their easels, and her brush flies about
in a care-free and random way, delivering a dash here, a dash there and another yonder, and
one might suppose that there would be no definite result; on the contrary I think that an intelligent
reader of her little book must find that by the time he has finished it he has somehow accumulated
a pretty clear and nicely shaded idea of the several members of this family--including Susy
herself--and that the random dashes on the canvases have developed into portraits. I feel that
my own portrait, with some of the defects fined down and others left out, is here; and I am
sure that any who knew the mother will recognize her without difficulty, and will say that
the lines are drawn with a just judgment and a sure hand. Little creature though Susy was,
the penetration which was born in her finds its way to the surface more than once in these pages.

Before Susy began the Biography she let fall a remark now and then concerning my character
which showed that she had it under observation. In the Record which we kept of the children's
sayings there is an instance of this. She was twelve years old at the time. We had established
a rule that each member of the family must bring a fact to breakfast--a fact drawn from a book
or from any other source; any fact would answer. Susy's first contribution was in substance
as follows. Two great exiles and former opponents in war met in Ephesus--Scipio and Hannibal.
Scipio asked Hannibal to name the greatest general the world had produced.

"Alexander"--and he explained why.

"And the next greatest?"

"Pyrrhus"--and he explained why.

"But where do you place yourself, then?"

"If I had conquered you I would place myself before the others."

Susy's grave comment was--

"That attracted me, it was just like papa--he is so frank about his books."

So frank in admiring them, she meant.

[Thursday, March 28, 1907.] Some months ago I commented upon a chapter of Susy's Biography
wherein she very elaborately discussed an article about the training and disciplining of children,
which I had published in the "Christian Union" (this was twenty-one years ago), an article
which was full of worshipful praises of Mrs. Clemens as a mother, and which little Clara, and
Susy, and I had been hiding from this lovely and admirable mother because we knew she would
disapprove of public and printed praises of herself. At the time that I was dictating these
comments, several months ago, I was trying to call back to my memory some of the details of
that article, but I was not able to do it, and I wished I had a copy of the article so that
I could see what there was about it which gave it such large interest for Susy.

Yesterday afternoon I elected to walk home from the luncheon at the St. Regis, which is in
56th Street and Fifth Avenue, for it was a fine spring day and I hadn't had a walk for a year
or two, and felt the need of exercise. As I walked along down Fifth Avenue the desire to see
that "Christian Union" article came into my head again. I had just reached the corner of 42nd
Street then, and there was the usual jam of wagons, carriages, and automobiles there. I stopped
to let it thin out before trying to cross the street, but a stranger, who didn't require as
much room as I do, came racing by and darted into a crack among the vehicles and made the crossing.
But on his way past me he thrust a couple of ancient newspaper clippings into my hand, and said,

"There, you don't know me, but I have saved them in my scrap-book for twenty years, and it
occurred to me this morning that perhaps you would like to see them, so I was carrying them
down-town to mail them, I not expecting to run across you in this accidental way, of course;
but I will give them into your own hands now. Good-by!"--and he disappeared among the wagons.

Those scraps which he had put into my hand were ancient newspaper copies of that "Christian
Union" article! It is a handsome instance of mental telegraphy--or if it isn't that, it is
a handsome case of coincidence.

From the Biography.

     March 14th, '86.--Mr. Laurence Barrette and Mr. and Mrs. Hutton
     were here a little while ago, and we had a very interesting visit
     from them. Papa said Mr. Barette never had acted so well before
     when he had seen him, as he did the first night he was staying with
     us. And Mrs. ---- said she never had seen an actor on the stage,
     whom she more wanted to speak with.

     Mamma was over at Mrs. George Warners to lunch the other day, and
     Miss H---- was there too. Mamma asked if anything as natural as
     near sightedness could be cured she said oh yes just as well as
     other deseases.

     When mamma came home, she took me into her room, and told me that
     perhaps my near-sightedness could be cured by the "Mind Cure" and
     that she was going to have me try the treatment any way, there
     could be no harm in it, and there might be great good. If her plan
     succeeds there certainly will be a great deal in "Mind Cure" to my
     oppinion, for I am very near sighted and so is mamma, and I never
     expected there could be any more cure for it than for blindness,
     but now I dont know but what theres a cure for that.

It was a disappointment; her near-sightedness remained with her to the end. She was born with
it, no doubt; yet, strangely enough, she must have been four years old, and possibly five,
before we knew of its existence. It is not easy to understand how that could have happened.
I discovered the defect by accident. I was half-way up the hall stairs one day at home, and
was leading her by the hand, when I glanced back through the open door of the dining-room and
saw what I thought she would recognise as a pretty picture. It was "Stray Kit," the slender,
the graceful, the sociable, the beautiful, the incomparable, the cat of cats, the tortoise-shell,
curled up as round as a wheel and sound asleep on the fire-red cover of the dining-table, with
a brilliant stream of sunlight falling across her. I exclaimed about it, but Susy said she
could see nothing there, neither cat nor table-cloth. The distance was so slight--not more
than twenty feet, perhaps--that if it had been any other child I should not have credited the
statement.

From the Biography. Mamma and Clara next are made subject to the contagious
     solatair, and there are four solotaireans at the table; while you
     hear nothing but "Fill up the place" etc. It is dreadful! after
     supper Clara goes into the library, and gets a little red mahogany
     table, and placing it under the gas fixture seats herself and
     begins to play again, then papa follows with another table of the
     same discription, and they play solatair till bedtime.

     We have just had our Prince and Pauper pictures taken; two groups
     and some little single ones. The groups (the Interview and Lady
     Jane Grey scene) were pretty good, the lady Jane scene was perfect,
     just as pretty as it could be, the Interview was not so good; and
     two of the little single pictures were very good indeed, but one
     was very bad. Yet on the whole we think they were a success.
     He has been through a great many of the funny adventures related in
     "Tom Sawyer" and in "Huckleberry Finn," himself and he lived among
     just such boys, and in just such villages all the days of his early
     life. His "Prince and Pauper" is his most orriginal, and best
     production; it shows the most of any of his books what kind of
     pictures are in his mind, usually. Not that the pictures of England
     in the 16th Century and the adventures of a little prince and
     pauper are the kind of things he mainly thinks about; but that
     that book, and those pictures represent the train of thought and
     imagination he would be likely to be thinking of to-day, to-morrow,
     or next day, more nearly than those given in "Tom Sawyer" or
     "Huckleberry Finn."[13]

     Papa can make exceedingly bright jokes, and he enjoys funny things,
     and when he is with people he jokes and laughs a great deal, but
     still he is more interested in earnest books and earnest subjects
     to talk upon, than in humorous ones.[14]

     When we are all alone at home, nine times out of ten, he talks
     about some very earnest subjects, (with an ocasional joke thrown
     in) and he a good deal more often talks upon such subjects than
     upon the other kind.

     He is as much of a Pholosopher as anything I think.

Thus at fourteen she had made up her mind about me, and in no timorous or uncertain terms had
set down her reasons for her opinion. Fifteen years were to pass before any other critic--except
Mr. Howells, I think--was to reutter that daring opinion and print it. Right or wrong, it was
a brave position for that little analyser to take. She never withdrew it afterward, nor modified
it. She has spoken of herself as lacking physical courage, and has evinced her admiration of
Clara's; but she had moral courage, which is the rarest of human qualities, and she kept it
functionable by exercising it. I think that in questions of morals and politics she was usually
on my side; but when she was not she had her reasons and maintained her ground. Two years after
she passed out of my life I wrote a Philosophy. Of the three persons who have seen the manuscript
only one understood it, and all three condemned it. If she could have read it, she also would
have condemned it, possibly,--probably, in fact--but she would have understood it. It would
have had no difficulties for her on that score; also she would have found a tireless pleasure
in analyzing and discussing its problems.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTES:

[13] It is so yet--M. T.

[14] She has said it well and correctly. Humor is a subject which has never had much interest
for me. This is why I have never examined it, nor written about it nor used it as a topic for
a speech. A hundred times it has been offered me as a topic in these past forty years, but
in no case has it attracted me.--M. T.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXVI.

JUNE 7, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XIX.

BY MARK TWAIN.

From Susy's Biography of Me.

     March 23, '86.--The other day was my birthday, and I had a little
     birthday party in the evening and papa acted some very funny
     charades with Mr. Gherhardt, Mr. Jesse Grant (who had come up from
     New York and was spending the evening with us) and Mr. Frank
     Warner. One of them was "on his knees" honys-sneeze. There were a
     good many other funny ones, all of which I dont remember. Mr. Grant
     was very pleasant, and began playing the charades in the most
     delightful way.

Susy's spelling has defeated me, this time. I cannot make out what "honys-sneeze" stands for.
Impromptu charades were almost a nightly pastime of ours, from the children's earliest days--they
played in them with me when they were only five or six years old. As they increased in years
and practice their love for the sport almost amounted to a passion, and they acted their parts
with a steadily increasing ability. At first they required much drilling; but later they were
generally ready as soon as the parts were assigned, and they acted them according to their
own devices. Their stage facility and absence of constraint and self-consciousness in the "Prince
and Pauper" was a result of their charading practice.

At ten and twelve Susy wrote plays, and she and Daisy Warner and Clara played them in the library
or up-stairs in the school-room, with only themselves and the servants for audience. They were
of a tragic and tremendous sort, and were performed with great energy and earnestness. They
were dramatized (freely) from English history, and in them Mary Queen of Scots and Elizabeth
had few holidays. The clothes were borrowed from the mother's wardrobe and the gowns were longer
than necessary, but that was not regarded as a defect. In one of these plays Jean (three years
old, perhaps) was Sir Francis Bacon. She was not dressed for the part, and did not have to
say anything, but sat silent and decorous at a tiny table and was kept busy signing death-warrants.
It was a really important office, for few entered those plays and got out of them alive.

     March 26.--Mamma and Papa have been in New York for two or three
     days, and Miss Corey has been staying with us. They are coming home
     to-day at two o'clock.

     Papa has just begun to play chess, and he is very fond of it, so he
     has engaged to play with Mrs. Charles Warner every morning from 10
     to 12, he came down to supper last night, full of this pleasant
     prospect, but evidently with something on his mind. Finally he said
     to mamma in an appologetical tone, Susy Warner and I have a plan.

     "Well" mamma said "what now, I wonder?"

     Papa said that Susy Warner and he were going to name the chess
     after some of the old bible heroes, and then play chess on Sunday.

     April 18, '86.--Mamma and papa Clara and Daisy have gone to New
     York to see the "Mikado." They are coming home to-night at half
     past seven.

     Last winter when Mr. Cable was lecturing with papa, he wrote this
     letter to him just before he came to visit us.

     DEAR UNCLE,--That's one nice thing about me, I never bother any
     one, to offer me a good thing twice. You dont ask me to stay over
     Sunday, but then you dont ask me to leave Saturday night, and
     knowing the nobility of your nature as I do--thank you, I'll stay
     till Monday morning.[15]

                   Your's and the dear familie's
                                              GEORGE W. CABLE.

[December 22, 1906.] It seems a prodigious while ago! Two or three nights ago I dined at a
friend's house with a score of other men, and at my side was Cable--actually almost an old
man, really almost an old man, that once so young chap! 62 years old, frost on his head, seven
grandchildren in stock, and a brand-new wife to re-begin life with!

[Dictated Nov. 19, 1906.]

     Ever since papa and mamma were married, papa has written his books
     and then taken them to mamma in manuscript and she has expergated
     them. And I
     remember one part pertickularly which was perfectly fascinating it
     was dreadful, that Clara and I used to delight in, and oh with what
     dispair we saw mamma turn down the leaf on which it was written, we
     thought the book would be almost ruined without it. But we
     gradually came to feel as mamma did.

It would be a pity to replace the vivacity and quaintness and felicity of Susy's innocent free
spelling with the dull and petrified uniformities of the spelling-book. Nearly all the grimness
it taken out of the "expergating" of my books by the subtle mollification accidentally infused
into the word by Susy's modification of the spelling of it. It is possible, for I had that custom.

Susy's quaint and effective spelling falls quite opportunely into to-day's atmosphere, which
is heavy with the rumblings and grumblings and mutterings of the Simplified Spelling Reform.
Andrew Carnegie started this storm, a couple of years ago, by moving a simplifying of English
orthography, and establishing a fund for the prosecution and maintenance of the crusade. He
began gently. He addressed a circular to some hundreds of his friends, asking them to simplify
the spelling of a dozen of our badly spelt words--I think they were only words which end with
the superfluous ugh. He asked that these friends use the suggested spellings in their private
correspondence.

By this, one perceives that the beginning was sufficiently quiet and unaggressive.

Next stage: a small committee was appointed, with Brander Matthews for managing director and
spokesman. It issued a list of three hundred words, of average silliness as to spelling, and
proposed new and sane spellings for these words. The President of the United States, unsolicited,
adopted these simplified three hundred officially, and ordered that they be used in the official
documents of the Government. It was now remarked, by all the educated and the thoughtful except
the clergy that Sheol was to pay. This was most justly and comprehensively descriptive. The
indignant British lion rose, with a roar that was heard across the Atlantic, and stood there
on his little isle, gazing, red-eyed, out over the glooming seas, snow-flecked with driving
spindrift, and lathing his tail--a most scary spectacle to see.

The lion was outraged because we, a nation of children, without any grown-up people among us,
with no property in the language, but using it merely by courtesy of its owner the English
nation, were trying to defile the sacredness of it by removing from it peculiarities which
had been its ornament and which had made it holy and beautiful for ages.

In truth there is a certain sardonic propriety in preserving our orthography, since ours is
a mongrel language which started with a child's vocabulary of three hundred words, and now
consists of two hundred and twenty-five thousand; the whole lot, with the exception of the
original and legitimate three hundred, borrowed, stolen, smouched from every unwatched language
under the sun, the spelling of each individual word of the lot locating the source of the theft
and preserving the memory of the revered crime.

Why is it that I have intruded into this turmoil and manifested a desire to get our orthography
purged of its asininities? Indeed I do not know why I should manifest any interest in the matter,
for at bottom I disrespect our orthography most heartily, and as heartily disrespect everything
that has been said by anybody in defence of it. Nothing professing to be a defence of our ludicrous
spellings has had any basis, so far as my observation goes, except sentimentality. In these
"arguments" the term venerable is used instead of mouldy, and hallowed instead of devilish;
whereas there is nothing properly venerable or antique about a language which is not yet four
hundred years old, and about a jumble of imbecile spellings which were grotesque in the beginning,
and which grow more and more grotesque with the flight of the years.

[Dictated Monday, November 30, 1906.]

     Jean and Papa were walking out past the barn the other day when
     Jean saw some little newly born baby ducks, she exclaimed as she
     perceived them "I dont see why God gives us so much ducks when
     Patrick kills them so."

