"I hope I don't arrogate too much in saying this, and in saying we have contributed not a little
to the glory of the nation and the American arms. Right out my window you can see a lovely maple tree spreading its branches and
shading the roof. Underneath it are the magnificent War Department gardens, a step guard, and
two old cannons on the grass. This
includes Lord Cornwallis' army in Virginia. At the time the battle of Eutaw was fought by the
enemy, from returns laid before Parliament, it appears they had in Charleston and in their
advanced army, 6,700 men fit for duty, besides all the militia and negroes. What an amazing
difference between their force and ours! From these authorities, I find our operations were
much more glorious than ever we considered them."

Gen. Greene and Gen. Williams were equally zealous in defending each other's reputation, and
at a later period when Greene himself was made the subject of animadversion, Williams defends
him in a strain of indignation and sarcasm, in the following letter to Maj. Edwards:

"The late revolution in South Carolina is owing not only to a change of circumstances, but
to a change of men in the government of that country. How daringly impudent it is for those
who have been rescued from misery and dejection, to arraign the virtue that saved them. She led the negotiations with the authorities, worked every new organizational
action and have prepared before the talks with the Minister, negotiated with industrial groups, legislators
and interested parties, considered economic and legal Questions, added the number of posts, took
the correspondence together the department, wrote the quarterly reports and was responsible for
the organism.

In addition, extending the area of ​​the different units. Their ingratitude proves manifestly, how well they deserved the chains which have
been taken off their necks. There are many sensible, amiable characters in Carolina, but I
always feared the majority were envious, jealous, malicious, designing, unprincipled people.
Come one, come all of you away and leave them. I am glad to hear the Northern troops are returning.
Though I cannot flatter myself with the pleasure of seeing them rewarded as they deserve, there
will be something done for them, they will not starve on the same fields in which they have bled."

It will not be of purpose to dwell much longer upon the subject before us, for Gen. Williams
did not live many years more to enjoy the fruits of his hard toil. He settled in Baltimore
and was appointed to the collectorship of the port, by the Governor of the State, the duties
of which he discharged with the same exemplary fidelity which had attended his military career.
When the Federal Constitution was adopted, he was re-appointed to the same office, which he
continued to hold as long as he lived. In 1786, he was happily married to the second daughter
of Mr. William Smith, a very wealthy and influential merchant, and his union was productive
of the complete felicity he so well deserved. Let's calculate the nitrogen supply and consumption. For
the sake of this calculation, let's assume that ninety tons of nitrogen were already available in the
country, and, with some degree of certainty, we may consider that
50 tons would be available in Ostend and Antwerp. So, the amount available
would be of one hundred and forty tons of nitrogen. Taking into consideration
that the monthly consumption is ten tons, the total amount would be
enough to cover fourteen months. Here he was pleasantly employed
in improving the condition of the farm, and in laying out the present town of "Williamsport,"
called after his own name. It was at one time thought that the seat of government would be
at Williamsport, and there are several letters from the General's brother on the subject, and
written in a very hopeful strain: one of great length detailing an account of Gen.