"No. That is, excepting little Charlotte Wynn. That child is exquisite. We had a talk before
luncheon the day I arrived. But when her mother found out that I was staying in the house she
telephoned her to leave immediately, and so I didn't see her again."

The colour rushed to Ide's sallow face. "I don't know where you get such ideas!"

She pursued, as if she had not heard him: "Oh, and I saw Mary Giles for a minute too. Susy
Suffern brought her up to my room the last evening, after dinner, when all the others were
at bridge. She meant it kindly--but it wasn't much use."

"But what were you doing in your room in the evening after dinner?"

"Why, you see, when I found out my mistake in coming,--how embarrassing it was for Leila, I
mean--I simply told her I was very tired, and preferred to stay upstairs till the party was over."

Ide, with a groan, struck his hand against the arm of his chair. "I wonder how much of all
this you simply imagined!"

"I didn't imagine the fact of Harriet Fresbie's not even asking if she might see me when she
knew I was in the house. Nor of Mary Giles's getting Susy, at the eleventh hour, to smuggle
her up to my room when the others wouldn't know where she'd gone; nor poor Leila's ghastly
fear lest Mrs. Lorin Boulger, for whom the party was given, should guess I was in the house,
and prevent her husband's giving Wilbour the second secretaryship because she'd been obliged
to spend a night under the same roof with his mother-in-law!"

Ide continued to drum on his chair-arm with exasperated fingers. "You don't know that any of
the acts you describe are due to the causes you suppose."

Mrs. Lidcote paused before replying, as if honestly trying to measure the weight of this argument.
Then she said in a low tone: "I know that Leila was in an agony lest I should come down to
dinner the first night. And it was for me she was afraid, not for herself. Leila is never afraid
for herself."

"But the conclusions you draw are simply preposterous. There are narrow-minded women everywhere,
but the women who were at Leila's knew perfectly well that their going there would give her
a sort of social sanction, and if they were willing that she should have it, why on earth should
they want to withhold it from you?"

"That's what I told myself a week ago, in this very room, after my first talk with Susy Suffern."
She lifted a misty smile to his anxious eyes. "That's why I listened to what you said to me
the same evening, and why your arguments half convinced me, and made me think that what had
been possible for Leila might not be impossible for me. If the new dispensation had come, why
not for me as well as for the others? I can't tell you the flight my imagination took!"

Franklin Ide rose from his seat and crossed the room to a chair near her sofa-corner. "All
I cared about was that it seemed--for the moment--to be carrying you toward me," he said.

"I cared about that, too. That's why I meant to go away without seeing you." They gave each
other grave look for look. "Because, you see, I was mistaken," she went on. "We were both mistaken.
You say it's preposterous that the women who didn't object to accepting Leila's hospitality
should have objected to meeting me under her roof. And so it is; but I begin to understand
why. It's simply that society is much too busy to revise its own judgments. Probably no one
in the house with me stopped to consider that my case and Leila's were identical. They only
remembered that I'd done something which, at the time I did it, was condemned by society. My
case has been passed on and classified: I'm the woman who has been cut for nearly twenty years.
The older people have half forgotten why, and the younger ones have never really known: it's
simply become a tradition to cut me. And traditions that have lost their meaning are the hardest
of all to destroy."

