The appalling magnitude of the evil against which he felt himself especially called to contend
was painfully manifest to John Woolman.  At the outset, all about him, in every department
of life and human activity, in the state and the church, he saw evidences of its strength,
and of the depth and extent to which its roots had wound their way among the foundations of
society.  Yet he seems never to have doubted for a moment the power of simple truth to eradicate
it, nor to have hesitated as to his own duty in regard to it.  There was no groping like Samson
in the gloom; no feeling in blind wrath and impatience for the pillars of the temple of Dagon.
"The candle of the Lord shone about him," and his path lay clear and unmistakable before him.
He believed in the goodness of God that leadeth to repentance; and that love could reach the
witness for itself in the hearts of all men, through all entanglements of custom and every
barrier of pride and selfishness.  No one could have a more humble estimate of himself; but
as he went forth on his errand of mercy he felt the Infinite Power behind him, and the consciousness
that he had known a preparation from that Power "to stand as a trumpet through which the Lord
speaks."  The event justified his confidence; wherever he went hard hearts were softened, avarice
and love of power and pride of opinion gave way before his testimony of love.

The New England Yearly Meeting then, as now, was held in Newport, on Rhode Island.  In the
year 1760 John Woolman, in the course of a religious visit to New England, attended that meeting.
He saw the horrible traffic in human beings,--the slave-ships lying at the wharves of the town,
the sellers and buyers of men and women and children thronging the market-place.  The same
abhorrent scenes which a few years after stirred the spirit of the excellent Hopkins to denounce
the slave- trade and slavery as hateful in the sight of God to his congregation at Newport
were enacted in the full view and hearing of the annual convocation of Friends, many of whom
were themselves partakers in the shame and wickedness.  "Understanding," he says, "that a large
number of slaves had been imported from Africa into the town, and were then on sale by a member
of our Society, my appetite failed; I grew outwardly weak, and had a feeling of the condition
of Habakkuk: 'When I heard, my belly trembled, my lips quivered; I trembled in myself, that
I might rest in the day of trouble.'  I had many cogitations, and was sorely distressed." He
prepared a memorial to the Legislature, then in session, for the signatures of Friends, urging
that body to take measures to put an end to the importation of slaves.  His labors in the Yearly
Meeting appear to have been owned and blessed by the Divine Head of the church.  The London
Epistle for 1758, condemning the unrighteous traffic in men, was read, and the substance of
it embodied in the discipline of the meeting; and the following query was adopted, to be answered
by the subordinate meetings:--

"Are Friends clear of importing negroes, or buying them when imported; and do they use those
well, where they are possessed by inheritance or otherwise, endeavoring to train them up in
principles of religion?"

At the close of the Yearly Meeting, John Woolman requested those members of the Society who
held slaves to meet with him in the chamber of the house for worship, where he expressed his
concern for the well-being of the slaves, and his sense of the iniquity of the practice of
dealing in or holding them as property.  His tender exhortations were not lost upon his auditors;
his remarks were kindly received, and the gentle and loving spirit in which they were offered
reached many hearts.

In 1769, at the suggestion of the Rhode Island Quarterly Meeting, the Yearly Meeting expressed
its sense of the wrongfulness of holding slaves, and appointed a large committee to visit those
members who were implicated in the practice.  The next year this committee reported that they
had completed their service, "and that their visits mostly seemed to be kindly accepted.  Some
Friends manifested a disposition to set such at liberty as were suitable; some others, not
having so clear a sight of such an unreasonable servitude as could be desired, were unwilling
to comply with the advice given them at present, yet seemed willing to take it into consideration;
a few others manifested a disposition to keep them in continued bondage."

It was stated in the Epistle to London Yearly Meeting of the year 1772, that a few Friends
had freed their slaves from bondage, but that others "have been so reluctant thereto that they
have been disowned for not complying with the advice of this meeting."

In 1773 the following minute was made: "It is our sense and judgment that truth not only requires
the young of capacity and ability, but likewise the aged and impotent, and also all in a state
of infancy and nonage, among Friends, to be discharged and set free from a state of slavery,
that we do no more claim property in the human race, as we do in the brutes that perish."

In 1782 no slaves were known to be held in the New England Yearly Meeting.  The next year it
was recommended to the subordinate meetings to appoint committees to effect a proper and just
settlement between the manumitted slaves and their former masters, for their past services.
In 1784 it was concluded by the Yearly Meeting that any former slave-holder who refused to
comply with the award of these committees should, after due care and labor with him, be disowned
from the Society.  This was effectual; settlements without disownment were made to the satisfaction
of all parties, and every case was disposed of previous to the year 1787.

In the New York Yearly Meeting, slave-trading was prohibited about the middle of the last century.
In 1771, in consequence of an Epistle from the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting, a committee was
appointed to visit those who held slaves, and to advise with them in relation to emancipation.
In 1776 it was made a disciplinary offence to buy, sell, or hold slaves upon any condition.
In 1784 but one slave was to be found in the limits of the meeting.  In the same year, by answers
from the several subordinate meetings, it was ascertained that an equitable settlement for
past services had been effected between the emancipated negroes and their masters in all save
three cases.

In the Virginia Yearly Meeting slavery had its strongest hold.  Its members, living in the
midst of slave-holding communities, were necessarily exposed to influences adverse to emancipation.
I have already alluded to the epistle addressed to them by William Edmondson, and to the labors
of John Woolman while travelling among them.  In 1757 the Virginia Yearly Meeting condemned
the foreign slave-trade.  In 1764 it enjoined upon its members the duty of kindness towards
their servants, of educating them, and carefully providing for their food and clothing. Four
years after, its members were strictly prohibited from purchasing any more slaves.  In 1773
it earnestly recommended the immediate manumission of all slaves held in bondage, after the
females had reached eighteen and the males twenty-one years of age.  At the same time it was
advised that committees should be appointed for the purpose of instructing the emancipated
persons in the principles of morality and religion, and for advising and aiding them in their
temporal concerns.

In 1784, the different Quarterly Meetings having reported that many still held slaves, notwithstanding
the advice and entreaties of their friends, the Yearly Meeting directed that where endeavors
to convince those offenders of their error proved ineffectual, the Monthly Meetings should
proceed to disown them.  We have no means of ascertaining the precise number of those actually
disowned for slave-holding in the Virginia Yearly Meeting, but it is well known to have been
very small.  In almost all cases the care and assiduous labors of those who had the welfare
of the Society and of humanity at heart were successful in inducing offenders to manumit their
slaves, and confess their error in resisting the wishes of their friends and bringing reproach
upon the cause of truth.

So ended slavery in the Society of Friends.  For three quarters of a century the advice put
forth in the meetings of the Society at stated intervals, that Friends should be "careful to
maintain their testimony against slavery," has been adhered to so far as owning, or even hiring,
a slave is concerned.  Apart from its first-fruits of emancipation, there is a perennial value
in the example exhibited of the power of truth, urged patiently and in earnest love, to overcome
the difficulties in the way of the eradication of an evil system, strengthened by long habit,
entangled with all the complex relations of society, and closely allied with the love of power,
the pride of family, and the lust of gain.

The influence of the life and labors of John Woolman has by no means been confined to the religious
society of which he was a member.  It may be traced wherever a step in the direction of emancipation
has been taken in this country or in Europe.  During the war of the Revolution many of the
noblemen and officers connected with the French army became, as their journals abundantly testify,
deeply interested in the Society of Friends, and took back to France with them something of
its growing anti-slavery sentiment.  Especially was this the case with Jean Pierre Brissot,
the thinker and statesman of the Girondists, whose intimacy with Warner Mifflin, a friend and
disciple of Woolman, so profoundly affected his whole after life.  He became the leader of
the "Friends of the Blacks," and carried with him to the scaffold a profound hatred, of slavery.
To his efforts may be traced the proclamation of emancipation in Hayti by the commissioners
of the French convention, and indirectly the subsequent uprising of the blacks and their successful
establishment of a free government.  The same influence reached Thomas Clarkson and stimulated
his early efforts for the abolition of the slave-trade; and in after life the volume of the
New Jersey Quaker was the cherished companion of himself and his amiable helpmate.  It was
in a degree, at least, the influence of Stephen Grellet and William Allen, men deeply imbued
with the spirit of Woolman, and upon whom it might almost be said his mantle had fallen, that
drew the attention of Alexander I. of Russia to the importance of taking measures for the abolition
of serfdom, an object the accomplishment of which the wars during his reign prevented, but
which, left as a legacy of duty, has been peaceably effected by his namesake, Alexander II.
In the history of emancipation in our own country evidences of the same original impulse of
humanity are not wanting.  In 1790 memorials against slavery from the Society of Friends were
laid before the first Congress of the United States.  Not content with clearing their own skirts
of the evil, the Friends of that day took an active part in the formation of the abolition
societies of New England, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia.  Jacob Lindley, Elisha
Tyson, Warner Mifflin, James Pemberton, and other leading Friends were known throughout the
country as unflinching champions of freedom.  One of the earliest of the class known as modern
abolitionists was Benjamin Lundy, a pupil in the school of Woolman, through whom William Lloyd
Garrison became interested in the great work to which his life has been so faithfully and nobly
devoted.  Looking back to the humble workshop at Mount Holly from the stand-point of the Proclamation
of President Lincoln, how has the seed sown in weakness been raised up in power!

The larger portion of Woolman's writings is devoted to the subjects of slavery, uncompensated
labor, and the excessive toil and suffering of the many to support the luxury of the few. 
The argument running through them is searching, and in its conclusions uncompromising, but
a tender love for the wrong-doer as well as the sufferer underlies all.  They aim to convince
the judgment and reach the heart without awakening prejudice and passion.  To the slave-holders
of his time they must have seemed like the voice of conscience speaking to them in the cool
of the day.  One feels, in reading them, the tenderness and humility of a nature redeemed from
all pride of opinion and self-righteousness, sinking itself out of sight, and intent only upon
rendering smaller the sum of human sorrow and sin by drawing men nearer to God, and to each
other.  There is no attempt at fine writing, not a word or phrase for effect; it is the simple
unadorned diction of one to whom the temptations of the pen seem to have been wholly unknown.
He wrote, as he believed, from an inward spiritual prompting; and with all his unaffected humility
he evidently felt that his work was done in the clear radiance of

          "The light which never was on land or sea."

It was not for him to outrun his Guide, or, as Sir Thomas Browne expresses it, to "order the
finger of the Almighty to His will and pleasure, but to sit still under the soft showers of
Providence."  Very wise are these essays, but their wisdom is not altogether that of this world.
They lead one away from all the jealousies, strifes, and competitions of luxury, fashion, and
gain, out of the close air of parties and sects, into a region of calmness,--

                               "The haunt
          Of every gentle wind whose breath can teach
          The wild to love tranquillity,"--

a quiet habitation where all things are ordered in what he calls "the pure reason;" a rest
from all self-seeking, and where no man's interest or activity conflicts with that of another.
Beauty they certainly have, but it is not that which the rules of art recognize; a certain
indefinable purity pervades them, making one sensible, as he reads, of a sweetness as of violets.
"The secret of Woolman's purity of style," said Dr. Channing, "is that his eye was single,
and that conscience dictated his words."

Of course we are not to look to the writings of such a man for tricks of rhetoric, the free
play of imagination, or the unscrupulousness of epigram and antithesis.  He wrote as he lived,
conscious of "the great Task-master's eye."  With the wise heathen Marcus Aurelius Antoninus
he had learned to "wipe out imaginations, to check desire, and let the spirit that is the gift
of God to every man, as his guardian and guide, bear rule."

I have thought it inexpedient to swell the bulk of this volume with the entire writings appended
to the old edition of the Journal, inasmuch as they mainly refer to a system which happily
on this continent is no longer a question at issue.  I content myself with throwing together
a few passages from them which touch subjects of present interest.

"Selfish men may possess the earth: it is the meek alone who inherit it from the Heavenly Father
free from all defilements and perplexities of unrighteousness."

"Whoever rightly advocates the cause of some thereby promotes the good of the whole."

"If one suffer by the unfaithfulness of another, the mind, the most noble part of him that
occasions the discord, is thereby alienated from its true happiness."

"There is harmony in the several parts of the Divine work in the hearts of men.  He who leads
them to cease from those gainful employments which are carried on in the wisdom which is from
beneath delivers also from the desire of worldly greatness, and reconciles to a life so plain
that a little suffices."

"After days and nights of drought, when the sky hath grown dark, and clouds like lakes of water
have hung over our heads, I have at times beheld with awfulness the vehement lightning accompanying
the blessings of the rain, a messenger from Him to remind us of our duty in a right use of
His benefits."

"The marks of famine in a land appear as humbling admonitions from God, instructing us by gentle
chastisements, that we may remember that the outward supply of life is a gift from our Heavenly
Father, and that we should not venture to use or apply that gift in a way contrary to pure reason."

"Oppression in the extreme appears terrible; but oppression in more refined appearances remains
to be oppression.  To labor for a perfect redemption from the spirit of it is the great business
of the whole family of Jesus Christ in this world."

"In the obedience of faith we die to self-love, and, our life being `hid with Christ in God,'
our hearts are enlarged towards mankind universally; but many in striving to get treasures
have departed from this true light of life and stumbled on the dark mountains.  That purity
of life which proceeds from faithfulness in following the pure spirit of truth, that state
in which our minds are devoted to serve God and all our wants are bounded by His wisdom, has
often been opened to me as a place of retirement for the children of the light, in which we
may be separated from that which disordereth and confuseth the affairs of society, and may
have a testimony for our innocence in the hearts of those who behold us."

"The necessity of an inward stillness hath appeared clear to my mind.  In true silence strength
is renewed, and the mind is weaned from all things, save as they may be enjoyed in the Divine
will; and a lowliness in outward living, opposite to worldly honor, becomes truly acceptable
to us.  In the desire after outward gain the mind is prevented from a perfect attention to
the voice of Christ; yet being weaned from all things, except as they may be enjoyed in the
Divine will, the pure light shines into the soul.  Where the fruits of the spirit which is
of this world are brought forth by many who profess to be led by the Spirit of truth, and cloudiness
is felt to be gathering over the visible church, the sincere in heart, who abide in true stillness,
and are exercised therein before the Lord for His name's sake, have knowledge of Christ in
the fellowship of His sufferings; and inward thankfulness is felt at times, that through Divine
love our own wisdom is cast out, and that forward, active part in us is subjected, which would
rise and do something without the pure leadings of the spirit of Christ.

"While aught remains in us contrary to a perfect resignation of our wills, it is like a seal
to the book wherein is written 'that good and acceptable and perfect will of God' concerning
us.  But when our minds entirely yield to Christ, that silence is known which followeth the
opening of the last of the seals.  In this silence we learn to abide in the Divine will, and
there feel that we have no cause to promote except that alone in which the light of life directs
us."

Occasionally, in Considerations on the Keeping of? Negroes, the intense interest of his subject
gives his language something of passionate elevation, as in the following extract:--

