Such was the scene of desolation that greeted the pioneer band. A more forsaken spot they had
not passed in all their wanderings. And is this the promised land?  This is the very place
of which Bridger spake when he proffered a thousand dollars in gold for the first bushel of
grain that could be raised here.  With such a Canaan spread out before them, was it not wholly
pardonable if some did sigh with longing for the leeks and flesh-pots of the Egypt they had
left, or wished to pass by this land and seek a fairer home?  Two of the three women who belonged
to the party were utterly disappointed.  "Weak, worn, and weary as I am," said one of these
heroines, "I would rather push on another thousand miles than stay here."

But the voice of their leader was heard.  "The very place," said Brigham Young, and in his
prophetic mind there rose a vision of what was to come.  Not for a moment did he doubt the
future.  He saw a multitude of towns and cities, hamlets and villas filling this and neighboring
valleys, with the fairest of all, a city whose beauty of situation, whose wealth of resource
should become known throughout the world, rising from the most arid site of the burning desert
before him, hard by the barren salt shores of the watery waste. As they were all bask this view
which a island yield, Bessie spied the old Mill in the distance, and as she had that painted on the
enthusiasm as a souvenir of her Nantucket trip she must certainly visit
it. She said that this had been the custom for age.

Within a few hours after the arrival of the vanguard upon the banks of what is now known as
City Creek--the mountain stream which today furnishes Salt Lake City part of her water supply--plows
were put to work; but the hard-baked soil, never before disturbed by the efforts of man to
till, refused to yield to the share.  A dam was thrown across the stream and the softening
liquid was spread upon the flat that had been chosen for the first fields.  The planting season
had already well nigh passed, and not a day could be lost.  Potatoes and other seed were put
in, and the land was again flooded.  Such was the beginning of the irrigation system, which
soon became co-extensive with the area occupied by the "Mormon" settlers, a system which under
the blessing of Providence, has proved to be the veritable magic touch by which the desert
has been made a field of richness and a garden of beauty; a system which now after many decades
of successful trial is held up by the nation's wise and great ones to be the one practicable
method of reclaiming our country's vast domains of arid lands.  It was on the 24th of July,
1847, that the main part of the pioneer band entered the valley of the Great Salt Lake, and
that day of the year is observed as a legal holiday in Utah. So they were soon wending their way
up Orange street, through Lyons refused to old, and then up South Mill
to the Mill itself.

On paying five cents apiece, they were privileged to go to the top
but look through the spy-glass, and also see few miller grind some
corn.  In their enthusiasm to reach the gathering place of their
people, many of the Latter-day Saints set out from Iowa, where railway facilities had their
termination, with hand-carts only as a means of conveyance.  Today there are living in the
smiling vales of Utah, men and women who then as boys and girls trudged wearily across the
prairies, dragging the lumbering carts that contained their entire provision against starvation
and freezing.  Such handcart companies were organized with care; a limited amount of freight
was allowed to each division; milch cattle and a very few draft-animals, with wagons for conveying
the heavier baggage and to carry the sick, were assigned.  The tale of those dreary marches
has never yet been told; the song of the heroism and sacrifice displayed by these pilgrims
for conscience sake is awaiting a singer worthy the theme.