    Mt. Vernon, 1786. Sir: ... Mrs. Washington joins me in thanking you
    also for your kind present of pickled oysters which were very fine.
    This mark of your politeness is flattering and we beg you to accept
    every good wish of ours in return.

When in 1770 a notice appeared in the Virginia Gazette about the proposed academy in New Kent
County an added attraction was featured: "Among other things the fine fishery at the place
will admit of an agreeable and salutary exercise and amusement all the year." It was the Chickahominy
river, a tributary of the James, that was referred to. Fishing is still "agreeable" there.
Citizens of Richmond, recreation-bent, throng to it along with the residents of its banks,
many of whom make their living out of it. This is one of the sections where the water, though
tidal, is fresh. Anadromous herring, shad, rock and sturgeon are caught. Unlike the salty bay,
fish can be caught here the year round. Among them are catfish, carp, perch and bass.

One of the most accurate and vivid reporters of Colonial Virginia plantation life was Philip
Vickers Fithian, tutor to the family of Councillor Robert Carter of Nominy Hall on the lower
Potomac river. In his Journals are appetizing references to seafood:

    1774, March: With Mr. Randolph, I went a-fishing, but we had only
    the luck to catch one apiece.

    April. We had an elegant dinner; beef and greens, roast pig, fine
    boiled rockfish.

    July. We dined today on the fish called the sheepshead, with crabs.
    Twice every week we have fine fish.

    On the edges of these shoals in Nominy River or in holes between
    the rocks is plenty of fish.

    Well, Ben, you and Mr. Fithian are invited by Mr. Turberville, to a
    fish feast tomorrow, said Mr. Carter when we entered the Hall to
    dinner.

    As we were rowing up Nominy we saw fishermen in great numbers in
    canoes and almost constantly taking in fish,--bass and perch.

    This is a fine sheepshead, Mr. Stadly [the music master], shall I
    help you? Or would you prefer a bass or a perch? Or perhaps you
    will rather help yourself to some picked crab. It is all extremely
    fine, sir, I'll help myself.

    August. Each Wednesday and Saturday, we dine on fish all the
    summer, always plenty of rock, perch, and crabs, and often
    sheepshead and trout.

    September. We dined on fish and crabs, which were provided for our
    company, tomorrow being fish day.

    September. Dined on fish,--rock, perch, fine crabs, and a large
    fresh mackerel.

    I was invited this morning by Captain Tibbs to a barbecue. This
    differs but little from the fish feasts, instead of fish the dinner
    is roasted pig, with the proper appendages, but the diversion and
    exercise are the very same at both.

An English traveler in 1759, Andrew Burnaby, registered his wonder at the way fish were taken
in the reaches of the Chesapeake:

    Sturgeon and shad are in such prodigious numbers [in Chesapeake
    Bay] that one day within the space of two miles only, some
    gentlemen in canoes caught above six hundred of the former with
    hooks, which they let down to the bottom and drew up at a venture
    when they perceived them to rub against a fish; and of the latter
    above five thousand have been caught at one single haul of the
    seine.

The "gentlemen" concerned were obviously not slaves serving the needs of a plantation, but,
judging from the amount caught, expert commercial fishermen. The sturgeon, after the roe was
removed, were stacked in carts and peddled in nearby towns. The shad, after as many as possible
were sold fresh, were salted down.

The snagging of big sturgeon as recounted by the French traveler François J. de Chastellux
in 1781 remained in common practice into the 20th Century, when the big ones became much scarcer:

    As I was walking by the river side [James near Westover], I saw two
    negroes carrying an immense sturgeon, and on asking them how they
    had taken it, they told me that at this season they were so common
    as to be taken easily in a seine and that fifteen or twenty were
    found sometimes in the net; but that there was a much more simple
    method of taking them, which they had just been using. This species
    of monster, which are so active in the evening as to be perpetually
    leaping to a great height above the surface of the water, usually
    sleep profoundly at mid-day. Two or three negroes then proceed in a
    little boat, furnished with a long cord at the end of which is a
    sharp iron crook, which they hold suspended like a log line. As
    soon as they find this line stopped by some obstacle, they draw it
    forcibly towards them so as to strike the hook into the sturgeon,
    which they either drag out of the water, or which, after some
    struggling and losing all his blood, floats at length upon the
    surface and is easily taken.

The frequently met-with term, "fishery," in Colonial writings took on a special meaning as
the industry developed. It was used in the sense of what the present Virginia lawbook calls
a "regularly hauled fishing landing."

This is usually a shore privately owned where the fronting waters have been cleared of obstructions.
The owner, or some one permitted by him, operates a long seine at that place by carrying it
offshore in boats and hauling it to land. So long as he thus uses the spot "regularly" the
law protects him, now as in the past, by making it illegal for any other person to fish with
nets within a quarter-mile of "any part of the shore of the owner of any such fishery."

The rights to such a property were, and are, in many cases extremely profitable. George Washington
was among the Virginia planters zealously caring for their "fisheries."

Often the privilege of using these was advertised in the newspapers or otherwise for rent for
a long or short term. Some owners who did not themselves wish to fish counted on their shores
to yield rental. One of these, George William Fairfax, must have expressed himself to Washington
on the subject, for the latter wrote him in June, 1774:

    ... As to your fishery at the Raccoon Branch, I think you will be
    disappointed there likewise as there is no landing on this side of
    river that rents for more than one half of what you expect for
    that, and that on the other side opposite to you (equally good they
    say) to be had at £15 Maryland currency....

But growing along with this practice was sentiment favoring fishing places open to the general
public. When an attempt was made about 1770 to take over certain lands near Cape Henry for
private operation, a vigorous protest ensued:

    The petition of the subscribers, inhabitants of the county of
    Princess Anne in behalf of themselves and the other inhabitants of
    this colony, humbly shows: That the point of land called Cape Henry
    bounded eastward by the Atlantic Ocean, northwardly by Chesapeake
    Bay, westwardly and southwardly by part of Lynnhaven River and by a
    creek called Long Creek and the branches thereof, is chiefly desert
    banks of sand and unfit for tillage or cultivation and contains
    several thousand acres.

    And that for many years past a common fishery has been carried on
    by many of the inhabitants of said county and others on the shore
    of the ocean and bay aforesaid, as far as the western mouth of
    Lynnhaven River. And that during the fishing season the fishermen
    usually encamp amongst the said sand hills and get wood for fuel
    and stages from the desert, and that very considerable quantities
    of fish are annually taken by such fishery which greatly
    contributes to the support and maintenance of your petitioners and
    their families.

    Your petitioners further show that they have been informed that
    several gentlemen have petitioned your Honour to have the land
    aforesaid granted to them by patent and that one Keeling has lately
    surveyed a part thereof situated near the mouth of Long Creek
    aforesaid, and that if a patent should be granted for the same, it
    would greatly prejudice the said fishery.

    Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that no patent may be
    granted to any person or persons for the same lands or any part
    thereof; and that the same may remain a common for the benefit of
    the inhabitants of this Colony in general for carrying on a fishery
    and for such public uses as the same premises shall be found
    convenient.

Even when the new United States Government erected a lighthouse at Cape Henry a careful stipulation
was made in the act ceding the property in 1790 that the public were not to be denied fishing
privileges there:

    Deed of cession of two acres of land at Cape Henry, in Princess
    Anne County, Virginia, for the purpose of erecting a lighthouse
    thereon ... provided that nothing contained in this act shall
    affect the right of this State to any materials heretofore placed
    at or near Cape Henry for the purpose of erecting a lighthouse, nor
    shall the citizens be debarred, in consequence of this cession,
    from the privileges they now enjoy of hauling their seines and
    fishing on the shores of the said land so ceded to the United
    States.

When George Washington had come, a newlywed, to be master of Mt. Vernon in 1759 he found the
prospects for fishing very satisfying.

Washington generously ordered his overseer to admit "the honest poor" to fishing privileges
at one of his shores, a concession that may have been customary among many landowners.

He was a man who believed in keeping records, and so complete a file of them has now been reassembled
at Mt. Vernon that it is possible to follow his career in any phase: officer, business speculator,
host, farmer, legislative adviser, and friend. He gave to fishing the painstaking personal
attention he gave to all else. As a "fisherman" he directed the manufacture as well as the
repair of his nets, and the curing, shipping and marketing of his fish.

It seems obvious that suitable nets were not being manufactured in the desired quantity or
variety in America, otherwise he would hardly have bought his in England.

He dealt with Robert Cary and Co., London, in 1771. Here is a typical order:

    One seine, seventy-five fathoms long when rigged for hauling; to be
    ten feet deep in the middle and eight at the ends with meshes fit
    for the herring fishery. The corks to be two and a half feet
    asunder; the leads five feet apart; to be made of the best
    three-strand (small) twine and tanned.

    400 fathom of white inch rope for hauling the above seine. 150
    fathom of deep sea line.

To get ready for spring fishing he had to prepare as far ahead as July. Even then he was not
always sure delivery would be on time:

    ... The goods you will please to forward by the first vessel for
    Potomac (which possibly may be Captain Jordan the bearer of this)
    as there are some articles that will be a good deal wanted,
    especially the seine, which will be altogether useless to me if I
    do not get them early in the spring, or in other words I shall
    sustain a considerable disappointment and loss, if they do not get
    to hand in time.

He wrote to Bradshaw and Davidson in London in 1772:

    That I may have my seine net exactly agreeable to directions this
    year I give you the trouble of receiving this letter from me to
    desire that three may be made. One of them eighty fathom long,
    another seventy, and the third sixty-five fathom, all of them to be
    twelve feet deep in the middle and to decrease to seven at the ends
    when rigged and fit for use; to be so close-meshed in the middle as
    not to suffer the herrings (for which kind of fishery they are
    intended) to hang in them because, when this is the case it gives
    us a good deal of trouble at the busy hurrying season to disengage
    the seine, and often is the means of tearing it. But the meshes may
    widen as they approach the ends: the corks to be no more than two
    feet and a half asunder and fixed on flatways that they may swim
    and bear the seine up better with a float right in the middle to
    show the approach of the seine with greater certainty in case the
    corks should sink; the leads to be five feet apart. The seine I had
    from you last year had two faults, one of which is that of having
    the meshes too open in the middle; the other of being too strait
    rigged; to avoid which I wish you to loose at least one-third of
    the length in hanging these seines; that is, to let your 80 fathom
    seine be 120 in the strait measure (before it is hung in the lead
    and cork lines) and the other two to bear the same proportion, I
    could wish to have these seines tanned but it is thought the one I
    had from you last year was injured in the vat, for which reason I
    leave it to you to have these tanned or not, as you shall judge
    most expedient ... I would not wish to have them made of thick
    heavy twine as they are more liable to heat and require great force
    to work them....

A detailed reply came from James Davidson, a partner in the net company:

    London, Sept. 29, 1772. Sir: I had the honour of receiving your
    letter with instructions concerning your seines. I shall always pay
    due attention to the contents. I persuade myself you'll say I have
    fulfilled your instructions given me in these three seines which I
    heartily hope will be in time for the intended fishery. Am not
    afraid but they will meet with your approbation and if you should
    see any alteration wanting if you'll be so obliging as to send a
    line in the same channel, it shall be attended to with great care.
    Your order is for the corks to be put on flat ways. I have only put
    them on the 65 fathom seine for these reasons. We have tried that
    method before with every other invention for the satisfaction of
    our fishermen here but they have assured us they really do not bear
    the net up so well. They are obliged to be tied on so tight that
    the twine cuts them and are much apter to break and after all in
    dragging the net they will swim sideways. Now, Sir, you'll readily
    see the above inconveniences. I have also put six floats in the
    middle, two together to show the center of the net. Likewise the
    length of the netting, 120 fathoms for the 80 fathoms, the other
    two in proportion.

    I now enter upon tanning. This, you may assure yourself, they are
    pretty well wore if you have them tanned for we are obliged to haul
    them in and out to take the tan and after that hauling them about
    to get them thoroughly dry before we can possibly pack them or else
    they would soon rot. Among the hundreds of seines I sent abroad
    last year or this, I only tanned one besides yours. Therefore have
    not tanned any of these. I think the three-quarters inch mesh that
    I have put in the middle of the nets this year will be a cure for
    the malady you mention of the herrings hanging in the mesh, for
    last year I only put in inch mesh which upon examination you'll
    soon perceive. Therefore, sir, I entreat the honour of a line
    whether or not the two above three-quarters mesh seines answer the
    purpose. I have tapered them away at the ends to [an] inch and a
    half.

These nets were designed for hauling ashore by hand. It was not till much later that other
nets, of the styles so familiar today, gill nets and pound nets in particular, came into general
use.

Much longer seines than Washington needed were used as fish became scarcer. There are tales
of them four and five miles long, actually able to block off the entire river, being used in
the neighborhood of Mt. Vernon before control laws were enacted and enforced. The catches were
enormous. Barges were heaped high with all sorts of fish and towed into Washington City where
they were sold before they spoiled, for what they would bring.

Today the pollution for which Washington and Alexandria are responsible has destroyed most
fish life within several miles of Mt. Vernon.

Like his fishing predecessors ever since Jamestown, Washington had his troubles with salt.
One of his business letters ordering a supply complained: "Liverpool salt is inadequate to
the saving of fish.... Lisbon is the proper kind."

He was only briefly touching on a subject that had vexed the Colonists since the beginning.
Through the years the cry for more and better salt had gone up. The fishermen of Virginia needed
salt for their fish as badly as the Hebrews in Egypt needed straw for their bricks. Although
trading with foreign countries increased steadily, the question of a salt supply for Virginia
remained unsolved.

As the 18th century had progressed, matters grew even worse. In 1763 the Virginia Committee
of Correspondence had written urgently to its agent in London to apply to Parliament for an act to

    allow to this Colony the same liberty to import salt from Lisbon or
    any other European ports, which they have long enjoyed in the
    Colonies and provinces of New England, New York and Pennsylvania.
    This is a point that hath been more than once unsuccessfully
    labored; but we think it is so reasonable, that when it is set in a
    proper light, we shall hope for success. The reason upon which the
    opposition hath been supported, is this general one that it is
    contrary to the interest of Great Britain to permit her plantations
    to be supplied with any commodity, especially any manufacture from
    a foreign country, which she herself can supply them with. This we
    allow to be of force; provided the Mother Country can and does
    supply her plantations with as much as they want; but the fact
    being otherwise, we have been allowed to supply ourselves with
    large quantities from Cercera, Isle of May, Sal Tortuga and so
    forth. The course of this trade being hazardous, in time of war,
    this useful and necessary article hath been brought to us at a high
    price of late. The reason or pretence of granting this indulgence
    to the Northern Colonies, in exclusion of the Southern, we presume
    to be to enable them to carry on their fishery to greater
    advantage, the salt from the Continent of Europe being fitter for
    that purpose than the salt from Great Britain or that from any of
    the islands we have mentioned. But surely this reason is but weakly
    founded with respect to Pennsylvania, whose rivers scarcely supply
    them with fish sufficient for their own use; whereas the Bay of
    Chesapeake abounds with great plenty and variety of fish fit for
    foreign markets, as well as for ourselves, if we could but get the
    proper kind of salt to cure it. Herrings and shads might be
    exported to the West Indies to great advantage; and we could supply
    the British markets with finer sturgeon than they have yet tasted
    from the Baltic. And it is an allowed principle that every
    extension of the trade of the Colonies, which does not interfere
    with that of the Mother Country is an advantage to the latter;
    since all our profits ultimately center with her.

It was pointed out that the English merchants were not above sharp practices in filling orders
for salt; they would reduce the amount shipped to individuals and provide the captain with
all he could carry extra to be sold at high prices to needy buyers.

The plaint was just another of the rumblings of discontent contributing to the grand explosion
of thirteen years later. The intricacies were entered into in detail by the Committee:

    We have twelve different Colonies on the Continent of North
    America. Four of them, viz., Pennsylvania, New York, New England,
    and Newfoundland, have liberty to import salt from any part of
    Europe directly. The other eight, viz., Virginia, Maryland, East
    and West Jersey, North and South Carolina, Georgia and Nova Scotia,
    as well as all the West India Islands, are deprived of it.

    At present those Colonies on whose behalf the petition is given,
    are supplied with salt from the Isle of Mays in Africa, Sal
    Tortuga, and Turks Island in America, also a little from England;
    but are deprived of the only salt that answers best for the
    principal use, viz., to preserve fish and other provisions, twelve
    months, or a longer time. What they have from Great Britain is made
    from salt water by fire, which is preferred for all domestic uses.
    The African or American salt is made from salt water by the sun;
    which is used for curing and preserving provisions. The first, made
    by fire, is found, by long experience, in warm climates, to be too
    weak; the provisions cured with it turn rusty, and in six or eight
    months become unfit for use. The second kind, by the quantity of
    alum, or some other vicious quality in it, is so corrosive, that in
    less than twelve months, the meat cured with it is entirely
    deprived of all the fat, and the lean hardened, or so much
    consumed, as to be of little service. The same ill qualities are
    found in these salts with regard to fish: wherefore the arguments
    used, that they ought to have English salt only, are as much as to
    say, they should be allowed to catch fish, or salt any provisions,
    but let their cattle and hogs die without reaping the advantage
    nature has given them.

    In all countries where a benefit can arise by fish or provisions,
    salt must be cheap; and as its value where made is from ten to
    twenty shillings the ton, so the carriage of it to America is often
    more than the real value: It is in order to save part of the
    expense of carriage, this application is made; for although some
    gentlemen do not seem to know it, yet we have liberty, by the
    present laws in force, to carry any kind of European salt to
    America, the ship first coming to an English port, in order to make
    an entry.

    We have also liberty to bring it from any salt island in Africa or
    America; but by the Act of 15 Car. II. Chap. 7, salt is supposed to
    be included under the word commodity; whereby it is, with all
    European goods, prevented from being carried to America, unless
    first landed in England: the consequence whereof is, that English
    ships, which (I shall suppose) are hired to sail from London to
    Lisbon with corn, and thence proceed to America, have not the
    liberty to carry salt in place of ballast, and therefore under a
    necessity to pay above £10 sterling at Lisbon for ballast (that is
    to say, for sand), which they carry to America, or else return to
    England in order to get a clearance for the salt, which would be
    more expense than its value.

    Now, had they liberty to carry salt directly to America, they would
    not only save the money paid for the sand, but also gain by the
    freight of salt perhaps £60 or £80 more. Thus on an average every
    ship that goes now empty from these ports to America, might clear
    £70 and there are above a hundred sail to that voyage every year.
    This is an annual loss of £7,000 at least; and besides, as the ship
    loses no time in this case (salt being as soon taken in as sand),
    they could afford to sell the best salt as cheap in America as is
    now paid for the worst; for as a ship must make a long voyage on
    purpose to get, and make it in the salt islands, so the expense
    thereof is more than the value of the salt at Lisbon, St. Ibbes,
    and so forth.

The proponents of the petition made out a strong case. They went into the grading of the kinds
of salt obtained from the West Indies, Africa and Europe and asserted that, inferior though
some of them were, they nevertheless had been found to be "preferable to England salt for curing
and preserving their fish":

    To know the qualities of the different kinds of salt used in
    America may be an amusement to a speculative man; but seems
    entirely out of the question in this case; for whatever may be said
    on that head, long experience and the universal agreement of all
    from America, as well as former Acts of Parliament, show that the
    common white salt will not answer the uses it is chiefly wanted for
    there.

    As to what is called Loundes's brine salt, that, and his many other
    projects, seemed to be formed on the same plan with Subtle's in
    The Alchemist, his scheme looking as if he only wanted the money,
    and left it to others to make the salt.

    Salt can, without doubt, be made of any desired quality, but the
    price, the place of delivery, and the quantity to be had of so
    useful a commodity must also be regarded.

    We can get salt at Sal Tortuga for the raking and putting it into
    our ships; but the expense of a voyage on purpose for it is greater
    than to buy it at a place from whence the freight may be all saved,
    and to have the best salt on the cheapest terms, is, no doubt the
    intention of this application, as it certainly was of the other
    Colonies that have obtained this privilege.

All the Virginians were asking, in effect, was the liberty to import from Europe what salt
they wished!

As the moment of Independence neared, the stress grew greater. George Washington's Mt. Vernon
overseer during the crucial years, his distant relative Lund Washington, addressed a letter
to him in 1775:

    The people are running mad about salt. You would hardly think it
    possible there could be such a scarcity. Five and six shillings per
    bushel. Conway's sloop came to Alexandria Monday last with a load.

A couple of months later the crisis was reached:

    I have had 300 bushels more of salt put into fish barrels, which I
    intend to move into Muddy Hole barn, for if it should be destroyed
    by the enemy we shall not be able to get more. There is still fifty
    or sixty more bushels, perhaps a hundred in the house. I was
    unwilling to sell it, knowing we could not get more and our people
    must have fish. Therefore I told the people I had none.

Two more years of adversity went by. Lund wrote in 1778:

    I was told a day or two past that Congress had ordered a quantity
    of shad to be cured on this river. I expect as everything sells
    high, shad will also. I should be fond of curing about 100 barrels
    of them, they finding salt. We have been unfortunate in our crops,
    therefore I could wish to make something by fish.

He proposed that he cure fish "for the Continent" and make "upwards of 200 pounds":

    I have very little salt, of which we must make the most. I mean to
    make a brine and after cutting off the head and bellies, dipping
    them in the brine for but a short time, then hang them up and cure
    them by smoke, or dry them in the sun; for our people being so long
    accustomed to have fish whenever they wanted, would think it very
    bad to have none at all.

All ended well for that season. Lund wrote:

    I have cured a sufficient quantity of fish for our people, together
    with about 160 or 170 barrels of shad for the Continent.

One of the most interesting diarists of Revolutionary days was young Nicholas Cresswell, an
Englishman of 24 when he arrived in America for a three-years visit. He was in Leesburg, Virginia,
in December 1776 when he recorded this occurrence:

    A Dutch mob of about forty horsemen went through the town today on
    their way to Alexandria to search for salt. If they find any they
    will take it by force.... This article is exceedingly scarce; if
    none comes the people will revolt. They cannot possibly subsist
    without a considerable quantity of this article.

The raiders were pacified by an allotment of three pints of salt per man.

A vivid picture of what the lack of salt entailed was given by Cresswell in April 1777:

    Saw a seine drawn for herrings and caught upwards of 40,000 with
    about 300 shad fish. The shads they use but the herrings are left
    upon the shore useless for want of salt. Such immense quantities of
    this fish is left upon the shore to rot, I am surprised it does not
    bring some epidemic disorder to the inhabitants by the nauseous
    stench arising from such a mass of putrefaction.

A fishery by-product of importance to early Virginians, lime, was of interest to Washington.
It was extensively obtained by burning oyster shells.

Early Virginia masonry shows that such lime was mixed in mortar and it was usually of poor
quality, perhaps because of crude facilities for burning. Today's shell lime is much in demand
in agriculture and its price is higher than mined lime. George Washington found that for the
purpose of building it left much to be desired. He wrote to Henry Knox from Mt. Vernon in 1785:

    I use a great deal of lime every year, made of the oyster shells,
    which, before they are burnt, cost me twenty-five to thirty
    shillings per hundred bushels; but it is of mean quality, which
    makes me desirous of trying stone lime.

He was paying about seven cents a bushel for shells, which seems high for those days of abundant
oysters and cheap labor. Until recently the Virginia market price was very little more.

Washington's probing, weighing mind slighted no phase of his fishery. About to fertilize crops
with fish experimentally, he wrote to his overseer: "If you tried both fresh and salt fish
as a manure the different aspects of them should be attended to." A few weeks later, after
watching results, he wrote: "The corn that is manured with fish, though it does not appear
to promise much at first, may nevertheless be fine.... It is not only possible but highly probable."

This opinion was abundantly confirmed years later when vast quantities of menhaden were converted
into guano for crops by Atlantic coast factories, a practice changed only when livestock-nutrition
studies showed that menhaden scrap was too valuable a protein source to be spread on land.
The fish referred to by Washington were in all probability river-herring, or alewives, used
as fertilizer at such times as they were caught in greater abundance than the food market could
absorb.

The probable yield of his fish trade was always carefully calculated, even when the pressure
of national affairs required his absence from home. From Philadelphia we find him writing to
his manager about a fish merchant's offer: "Ten shillings per hundred for shad is very low.
I am at this moment paying six shillings apiece for every shad I buy." He usually tried to
get at least twelve shillings a hundred for his shad, which were salted prior to marketing,
although there were instances when he let them go for as little as one pence apiece. The extraordinary
price of six shillings for one shad cited by him in Philadelphia is hard to explain. It probably
referred to a fresh one caught early in the season and prepared especially for his table. Though
records of the average weight of shad in those days are lacking, seven pounds is a fair estimate,
and it may have been greater. The weights now seldom exceed three or four pounds, because in
the more recent years of intensive fishing, shad have been widely caught up as they returned
from the ocean to spawn for the first time. Shad, along with other anadromous, or "up-running,"
fish are born near the head-waters of rivers, and seek the ocean for feeding and growth. Unlike
salmon they do not perish after one spawning and the oftener they return, the larger they are.
What conservationists call "escapement," or the freedom to get back to the ocean from the rivers,
is considered vital to their survival in quantity.

All through the two-score years of fishing at Mount Vernon, Washington suffered, judging by
his unceasing preoccupation with minor details, from the lack of a fishing foreman to whom
he could entrust the operation with any confidence. Letters toward the close of his life bearing
on this subject are still replete with reminders concerning trifles which would have been routine
for any competent boss. The fish runs start about March; therefore, in January he finds it
necessary to write; "It would be well to have the seines overhauled immediately, that is, if
new ones are wanting, or the old ones requiring much repair, they may be set about without
loss of time." He must even look beyond his own help for the skill necessary to put his nets
in order. "I would have you immediately upon the receipt of this letter send for the man who
usually does this work for me.... Let him choose his twine (if it is to be had in Alexandria)
and set about them immediately."

Abundance of fish created a bottleneck:

    In the height of the fishery they are not prepared to cure or
    otherwise dispose of them as fast as they could be caught; of
    course the seines slacken in their work, or the fish lie and spoil
    when that is the only time I can make anything by the seine, for
    small hauls will hardly pay the wear and tear of the seine and the
    hire of the hands.

However, then as now, fishing was a gamble:

    Unless the weather grows warmer your fishing this season will, I
    fear, prove unproductive; for it has always been observed that in
    cold and windy weather the fish keep in deep water and are never
    caught in numbers, especially at shallow landings.

And in 1794, he states, with the rather weary voice of experience,

    I am of opinion that selling the fish all to one man is best ... if
    Mr. Smith will give five shillings per thousand for herrings and
    twelve shillings a hundred for shad, and will oblige himself to
    take all you have to spare, you had better strike and enter into a
    written agreement with him.... I never choose to sell to wagoners;
    their horses have always been found troublesome, and themselves
    indeed not less so, being much addicted to the pulling down and
    burning the fences. If you do not sell to Smith the next best thing
    is to sell to the watermen.... I again repeat that when the schools
    of fish run you must draw night and day; and whether Smith is
    prepared to take them or not, they must be caught and charged to
    him; for it is then and then only I have a return for my expenses;
    and then it is the want of several purchasers is felt; for unless
    one person is extremely well prepared he cannot dispose of the fish
    as fast as they can be drawn at those times and if the seine or
    seines do no more than keep pace with his convenience my harvest is
    lost and of course my profit; for the herrings will not wait to be
    caught as they are wanted to be cured.

Thus did Washington become one of the first to encounter the besetting plague of American mass
production: the problem of distribution.

That fishing was a vital prop in plantation economy is evidenced by a letter of April 24, 1796,
to his manager:

    As your prospect for gain is discouraging, it may, in a degree, be
    made up in a good fishing season for herrings; that for shad must,
    I presume, be almost, if not quite, over.

Salt herrings were a staple in the feeding of the "black people," and were issued to those
at Mount Vernon at the rate of twenty a month per head. But he warned about waiting for the
annually expected herring "glut" to occur before the slaves were provided for. If it should
fail to materialize--as had been known--what then? Save a "sufficiency of fish" from the first
runs, he wisely ordered.

In 1781 he suggested that salt fish be contracted for the troops, and possibly it was tried
for a while, but the year following, army leaders voted to exclude fish from the rations.

Accounting records for 1774, presumably an average fishing year, show receipts of £170 for
the catch at the Posey's ferry fishery, with £26 debited to operating cost. At the Johnson's
ferry fishery £114 was taken in and £28 paid out. The catch here represented consisted of 9,862
shad and 1,591,500 river herring, but other large hauls were also made on the estate. Profits
would seem to be adequate, although costs of nets and boats were not figured in. Fishing boats
were usually small maneuverable craft that never had to put out very far from shore, and cost
about £5 to build.

Occasionally Washington was approached by speculators offering to rent the season's privileges
at one of his fisheries for a flat sum. About one such proposal in 1796 he expressed the opinion
to his manager that "under all chances fishing yourself will be more profitable than hiring
out the landing for £60." Nevertheless, the headaches had for years made the transference of
fishing to someone for cash on the barrelhead a temptation. In February, 1770, he had entered
into an agreement as to sales while retaining the responsibility of catching:

    Mr. Robert Adams is obliged to take all I catch at Posey's landing
    provided the quantity does not exceed 500 barrels and will take
    more than this quantity if he can get casks to put them in. He is
    to take them as fast as they are catched, without giving any
    interruption to my people, and is to have the use of the fish house
    for his salt, fish, etc., taking care to have the house clear at
    least before the next fishing season; is to pay £10 for the use of
    the house and 3 shillings 4 pence, Maryland currency, per hundred
    for white fish.

But in 1787 he wrote: "A good rent would induce me to let the fishery that I have no trouble
or perplexity about it." The Diary shows a good deal more interest during the early years in
how the fish ran than it does later. In April, 1760, he writes:

    Apprehending the herring were come, hauled the seine but catched
    only a few of them, though a good many of other sorts.... Hauled
    the seine again, catched two or three white fish, more herring than
    yesterday and a great number of cats.

    August, 1768: Hauling the seine upon the bar of Cedar Point for
    sheepshead but catched none.

    April, 1769: The white fish ran plentifully at my seine landing,
    having catched about 300 at one haul....

The term "white fish" is not now generally applied to any species caught in the Potomac, but
a good guess is that, with Washington, it was an alternate for shad.

