<b>WARD, HENRIETTA MARY ADA.</b> Gold and silver medals at the Crystal Palace; bronze medal
at the Vienna Exposition, 1873. Born in Newman Street, London, when that street and the neighborhood
was the quarter in which the then celebrated artists resided. Mrs. Ward was a pupil of the
Bloomsbury Art School and of Sak's Academy. Her grandfather, James Ward, was a royal Academician,
and one of the best animal painters of England. While Sir Thomas Lawrence lived, Mrs. Ward's
father, who was a miniaturist, was much occupied in copying the works of Sir Thomas on ivory,
as the celebrated portrait painter would permit no other artist to repeat them. After the death
of Sir Thomas, Mr. Ward became an engraver. Her mother was also a miniature painter. Her great-uncles
were William Ward, R.A., and George Morland; John Jackson, R.A., was her uncle; and her husband,
Edward M. Ward, to whom she was married at sixteen, was also a Royal Academican.

From 1849, Mrs. Ward exhibited at the Royal Academy during thirty years, without a break, but
her husband's death caused her to omit some exhibitions, and since that time her exhibits have
been less regular. For some years Mrs. Ward has had successful classes for women at Chester
Studios, which have somewhat interfered with her painting.

Mrs. Ward's subjects have been historical and genre, some of which are extensively known by
prints after them. Among these are "Joan of Arc," "Palissy the Potter," and "Mrs. Fry and Mary
Saunderson visiting Prisoners at Newgate," the last dedicated by permission to Queen Victoria.
This picture was purchased by an American.

Of her picture of "Mary of Scotland, giving her infant to the Care of Lord Mar," Palgrave wrote:
"This work is finely painted, and tells its tale with clearness." Among her numerous works
are: "The Poet Hogg's First Love"; "Chatterton," the poet, in the Muniment Room, Bristol; "Lady
Jane Grey refusing the Crown of England"; "Antwerp Market"; "Queen Mary of Scots' farewell
to James I."; "Washing Day at the Liverpool Docks"; "The Princes in the Tower"; "George III.
and Mrs. Delayney, with his family at Windsor"; "The Young Pretender," and many others.

When sixteen Mrs. Ward exhibited two heads in crayon. In 1903, at the Academy, she exhibited
"The Dining-room, Kent House, Knightsbridge." Mrs. Ward painted for Queen Victoria two portraits
of the Princess Beatrice, and a life-size copy of a portrait of the Duke of Albany. She also
painted a portrait of Princess Alice of Albany, who is about to marry Prince Alexander of Teck.

Edward VII. has commissioned this artist to make two copies of the state portrait, painted
by S. Luke Fildes, R.A.

Mrs. Ward had two more votes for her admission to the Royal Academy than any other woman of
her time has had.

<b>WASSER, ANNA.</b> Born at Zürich, 1676, is notable among the painters of her country. She
was the daughter of an artist, and early developed a love of drawing and an unusual aptitude
in the study of languages. In painting she was a pupil of Joseph Werner. After a time she devoted
herself to miniature painting; her reputation extended to all the German courts, as well as
to Holland and England, and her commissions were so numerous that her father began to regard
her as a mine of riches. He allowed her neither rest nor recreation, and was even unwilling
that she should devote sufficient time to her pictures to finish them properly. Under this
pressure of haste and constant labor her health gave way and she became melancholy.

She was separated from her father, and in more agreeable surroundings her health was restored
and she resumed her painting. Her father then insisted that she should return to him. On her
journey home she had a fall, from the effects of which she died at the age of thirty-four.

