We find great charm in this short lyric, for its form is unusual, its music joyous and its
sentiment fine. Three lines of four feet each, a line of three feet, two lines of two feet
each, and one line of three feet make up each stanza. The accent in each foot is on the last
syllable, but some of the feet are only two syllables long. It's a merry meter. It scarcely
can be read without stirring a rollicking melody in the ears of the listener. That's the art
in the poem. The sentiment is as fine as the music. "The world's running over with joy! I'm
as happy as happy can be." If the little brown thrush keeps singing that song the heart of
everyone who hears it will overflow with joy. But it would be easy, very easy indeed, to stop
the joyous song of the thrush by meddling with the five pretty eggs, and when the thrush changed
his happy song to harsh notes of fear and reproach, the light of joy would fade from our day
as quickly as from his.

The Child's World

(Volume II, page 66)

The unique measures of this brief poem make a melodious whole that every child will appreciate.
Unless some care is taken in reading it aloud, however, much of its beauty will be lost. This
is particularly true of the first stanza, from the first and last lines of which a syllable
has been omitted. The absence of these syllables must be indicated by pauses or by giving more
time to the word "great" in the first line, and to the word "world" in the last line. The idea
may be indicated by supposing that the word "O" has been omitted from the beginning of the
first and last line. The first line of the last couplet is peculiar in that every one of the
four feet contains three syllables with the accent on the last. All the other lines consist
each of four feet of either two or three syllables. Technically the poem is anapestic tetrameter
much varied by the introduction of iambic feet. (See the studies in meter, Volume VII, pages
2 and 13.)

The rhymes are all in couplets and are perfect. The stanzas, like paragraphs, indicate changes
in thought. Its pleasing unity rests in the fact that it is all a child's thoughts about the
world. It is logical, a real leading up of thought to natural climax. The child begins with
wonder and a sense of beauty around her. The world is great and wide and wonderful and beautiful.
She thinks of the sea she has read about or seen and thinks of the wonderful water curling
up in waves above the shore. To her the world is the land with the wonderful growing grass
upon its broad breast, and this marks the end of her first thought--the great world is beautifully
dressed.

Next as she sits on the brow of the hill and gazes over the lowland the breezes blow her hair
about her face and her mind passes to the wonderful air that as wind shakes the trees, ripples
the water, whirls the mills and sings through the trees on the tops of the hills.

Thought wanders on to the nodding wheat, the rivers, cliffs, and islands, to the cities and
the people everywhere for thousands of miles. What is the effect of this vastness on the thought
of a child? Can you not realize for yourself any clear night that you may gaze at the numberless
stars in the arching skies? How small, how infinitely little are we in all the great universe!
Have we the imagination to grasp the saving thought that comes so naturally into the clear
mind of the child? Though I am so small, so insignificant, I can think and love, but the wonderful
earth can not. A philosophy well worth keeping, is it not?

Seven Times One

(Volume II, page 119)

Jean Ingelow's poem has in it many things to interest a child, but there may be some things
that will be clearer for explanation.

Stanza 1. In England the daisy grows wild almost everywhere, a little, low plant which produces
its heads of white, pink-tipped flowers from a rosette of leaves. In the United States we often
see daisies in cultivation but they are nowhere native. The child is at her seventh birthday
and has learned her multiplication table, the "sevens". Nowadays in our schools the children
do not have the drudgery of committing the long tables to memory as their grand-parents did.
Our little friend thinks that as she has lived seven years that makes her "seven times one
are seven."

Stanza 2. One is so old at seven, so very old--why one can even write a letter. But now with
the birthday lessons learned she can think of other things; for instance there are the lambs
who play always, for they have no lessons to learn. They are not old and they are "only one
times one," not "seven times one," which are seven.

Stanza 3. She has seen the moon when it was full and bright and gave a wondrous light, but
now it is only a pale crescent in the sky and its light is failing. Certainly the moon is failing
and not like the child improving each day.

Stanza 4. Occasionally the child has done wrong and been punished, and perhaps the moon has
done something wrong way up there in heaven so that God has hidden its face. If that is true
she hopes soon God will forgive the poor moon and allow it to shine once more with its silver
light.

Stanza 5. Isn't "velvet bee" a happy expression? Then the bee gathers the yellow pollen from
the flowers, mixes and shapes it into little pellets and fastens them in golden balls on its
thighs to carry into the hive where it will serve as "bee bread" to feed the young bees. In
the wet places grow the marsh marigolds, or cowslips as they are sometimes called, bright golden
flowers like the buttercups. To the bee and the cowslips the little child joyfully cries: "Give
me your golden honey to hold, for I am seven years old and know what to do with it."

Stanza 6. The columbine is the graceful little flower we so often hear called honeysuckle.
Five deep curved nectar-bearing tubes project backward from the flower itself. By opening the
blossom in the right way the child of fanciful ideas may see shapes that remind her of turtle
doves.

The cuckoo-pint (by the way, the i is short as in pit) does not grow in the United States.
It has spotted leaves, large and triangular, and the "bell" is an upright green cup in which
stands a tall column, the "clapper." It is called cuckoo-pint because it blossoms about the
time the cuckoo returns to England. Our nearest approach to the flower is the "Jack-in-the-Pulpit"
or Indian Turnip.

It is perfectly safe for the columbine to unfold its wrapper and the cuckoo-pint to toll its
bell in the presence of a maiden so old. She will not destroy them.

Stanza 7. In the United States we have no wild linnet, though we sometimes hear song-birds
called by that name. The English linnet is a little sparrow with striped back and a purple
crown and breast. He resembles our purple finch and our redpoll. He is one of the famous songsters
of the English lanes and fields.

No young lady of seven would be so thoughtless as to steal away the young linnets, so the old
bird may freely point out the nest.

At what time of the year does the little girl's birthday come?

The First Snowfall

(Volume II, page 403)

A. The Author. For a sketch of the life of James Russell Lowell, see Volume VII, page 411.

B. The Meaning. Words and Phrases:

"Gloaming"; early evening.

"Silence." The snow is called a silence, because it hushes noise, or prevents it.

"Pine and fir and hemlock"; three evergreen trees.

"Ermine"; the fur from a northern animal of the same name. It is very soft and white. Earls,
nobles of rank, wore ermine on their robes to show their high birth.

"Pearl"; a white, lustrous jewel, or the beautiful lining of some sea shells.

"Carrara"; a town in Italy, whence comes the finest white marble. Here Carrara means costly marble.

"Swan's down." Swans have fine soft down between their feathers. It protects them from cold
in winter, and in summer they line their nests with it.

"Noiseless work"; covering everything with snow.

"Mound"; grave.

"Auburn"; a beautiful cemetery near Boston.

"Babes in the Wood"; an allusion to the old story of the children who were lost in the woods,
and whom the robins covered with leaves to protect them.

"All-father"; God, the Father of all.

"Leaden"; gray and heavy, lead-colored.

"Arched"; curved.

"Deep-plunged woe"; a sorrow that plunged us deep in misery.

"Eyes that saw not." His eyes were so filled with tears that he could not see "Mabel," who
is really his daughter Rose.

"My kiss was given to her sister." He was thinking so deeply of his lost daughter, that it
seemed almost as though he kissed the dead lips.

"Folded close." The soft, downy snow made him think of a soft, warm covering for the form of
his little one.

C. Form and Structure.

There are ten stanzas of four verses (lines) each, with the rhymes at the ends of the second
and fourth verses only. The word snow is used four times in rhymes; the words rhyming with
it are crow, below, woe and know. All the rhymes in the poem are perfect.

The meter is varied iambic trimeter. The first and third lines of each stanza have an added
unaccented syllable, while the second and fourth have just three full feet. Anapestic feet
are used freely to improve the music; in fact, they are nearly as numerous as the iambic feet.

The scansion of the first stanza may be indicated thus:

    The-snow´|had-be-gun´|in-the-gloam´|ing
    And-bus´|i-ly-all´|the-night´
    Had-been-heap´|ing-field´|and-high´|way
    With-a-si´|lence-deep´|and-white´

The scansion of the sixth stanza may be shown as follows:

    Up-spoke´|our-own´|lit-tle-Ma´|bel
      Say-ing-Fa´|ther-who-makes´|it-snow´
    And-I-told´of-the-good´|All-Fa´|ther
      Who cares´|for-us-here´|be-low´

They are musical stanzas, and the finely chosen words add much to the melody.

D. Sentiment. Lowell had a little daughter, Blanche, who died shortly before this poem was
composed, so we may be sure that it was written from a full heart. He begins by giving us one
of the most beautiful pictures of a snow-storm and of a snow-covered world that was ever written.

(Compare Lowell's other description of winter to be found in the second part of The Vision
of Sir Launfal and Whittier's description in Snow-Bound.)

When he has made us feel the softness, gentleness and beauty of the snow and caused us to forget
that it is cold and damp, he speaks of himself. We can see him sitting by the window looking
out upon the beautiful pearl-clad world. He brings us right into his own presence and we can
almost see the flocks of startled brown snowbirds whirling by. Not till now, when we are fully
in sympathy with him, does he let us know that he has met with a deep, heart-breaking loss.
Now we know what the soft flakes are hiding from sight, and our hearts go out with his.

Then his innocent little daughter comes in with the simple, commonplace question which he answers
so touchingly. Can you not see him with his arm around the child, telling her of the care of
the Father who loves little children so dearly? Yet his mind cannot free itself wholly from
his first great sorrow, though he remembers that calmness, resignation, and gentle patience
fell over his heart as the soft snow falls flake by flake from the leaden sky.

To the child, however, he speaks words that she will not fully understand until she, too, is
grown and has met with sorrow: "It is only the merciful Father, darling, who can make fall
that gentle comfort that heals and hides all suffering."

Once more our hearts are wrung with sympathy when with tear-filled eyes he gives the little
maiden by his side the kiss that was for the silent lips in sweet Auburn. The little one, kissing
back, could not know the grief of her father's heart or realize that another form than hers
was clasped in his embrace.

How much better we know the great poet when he tells us his personal griefs in so touching
a manner! How sweet is the lesson of patience and resignation when communicated in such a beautiful
poem!

E. Beauty and Effectiveness in Phrasing. Where in literature will you find more beautiful phrases,
more effective figures, than abound in this poem? Notice particularly the following, and try
to determine why each is remarkable:

    "With a silence deep and white."

    "Ermine too dear for an earl."

    "Stiff rails softened to swan's down."

    "The noiseless work of the sky."

                            "the leaden sky
     That arched o'er our first great sorrow."

    "The scar of our deep-plunged woe."

    "Folded close in deepening snow."

F. Conclusion. The First Snowfall is one of the most perfect poems in our language. In beauty
of composition, of music, of sentiment, and in deep religious feeling it can scarcely be excelled.
Be guarded how you teach it; treat it reverently. Try to cause the children to love it, to
wish to memorize it. If you see that you are not securing these results, leave the poem and
take up something else. It is almost a sin to spoil it for any person.

The Potato

(Volume II, page 467)

Thomas Moore's amusing stanza may seem silly to some people, but those who have a sense of
humor will be delighted with the whimsical conception of a potato with so independent a spirit.
It usually spoils humor to comment upon it. To explain a joke is to kill it. The sense of humor
is contagious. Children will laugh when older people smile just from sympathy. When they ask
"what's the joke?" it is time to explain. Even then it is best to give merely facts and let
the joke make its own way. Laughter lightens many a heavy burden, and a sense of humor is a
saving grace. Cultivate it by indirection.

Origin of the Opal

(Volume II, page 480)

The opal is a beautiful stone which seen at different angles and in different lights seems
to glow with various colors. The polished surface may seem, as you first look at it, to be
only a milky white. Turn it a little and it glows a bright flame color with green lights round
the margin. Turned a little more it shows violet and silver. Other shades mingle with these,
all coming and going as light and position vary. A fine opal is a wonderfully brilliant precious
stone.

The idea of the poem, too, is beautiful. Here is a transparent dewdrop; in it is the flame
of the last ray of sun. As the drop lies in the violet it takes that color, and steals from
the rose her delicate shades. From the sky it draws the blue, from a leaf its green and silver.
When all these colors have been taken in, the drop is congealed, and imprisoned in its heart
are the fiery flame, the rich violet, the rose tints, the skyey blue, the delicate green and
the gleaming silver. This is the opal.

The Barefoot Boy

(Volume IV, page 3)

On page 5 occur the lines,

    "Mine, on bended orchard trees,
     Apples of Hesperides!"

According to the old Greeks, there lay far to the west, in the ocean, a wonderful island where
were kept, under the guard of a gruesome dragon, the beautiful golden apples which Gaea gave
as a wedding present to Zeus. The Hesperides were the three daughters of Night, who ruled the
guardian dragon. These golden apples, then, came to be known as the apples of Hesperides. When
Hercules in his madness had slain his three children he was condemned to do whatever his cousin
Eurystheus demanded for his purification. His tasks came to be known as the Twelve Labors of
Hercules, and the eleventh was to obtain the golden apples from the Hesperides. He accomplished
this task among the others, but the apples were subsequently restored. To the barefoot boy
the apples of his New England tree were as choice as the golden ones of the Greek myth.

Do not fail to see the exquisite picture painted by these beautiful descriptive lines on pages
5 and 6.

The Bugle Song

(Volume VI, page 133)

Among the many charming lyrics which Tennyson has written, there are few more musical or more
delicately beautiful than The Bugle Song. It may be appreciated better perhaps if we have knowledge
of its setting. It occurs in The Princess, and has no immediate connection with anything that
precedes or follows.

Three pairs of youthful lovers have been climbing above a lovely glade wherein is pitched the
tent of the Princess. As they climbed, "Many a little hand glanced like a touch of sunshine
on the rocks, and many a light foot shone like a jewel set in the dark crag." They wound about
the cliffs, and out and in among the copses, striking off pieces of various rocks and chattering
over their stony names, until they reached the summit and the sun grew broader as he set and
threw his rosy light upon the heights above the glade. When in this poetic vein Tennyson has
described the scene, he throws in The Bugle Song without any comment.

We will understand it better if we paraphrase it briefly. Let us imagine ourselves standing
on some peak and looking over a scene lighted by the setting sun.

    "The splendor falls on castle walls
     And snowy summits old in story."

The light in long quivering beams is thrown across the lakes, and a wild cataract, made glorious
by the golden light, leaps down a neighboring precipice. At this moment, somewhere in the distance
we hear a bugle which sets wild echoes flying in every direction about us. As these echoes
die away,

    "O hark, O hear! how thin and clear,
     And thinner, clearer, farther going,"

there comes reflected to us from cliff and abrupt promontory the faint sound of the little
horns of Fairyland. To them the purple glens reply in echoes gently dying into silence. O love,
those echoes die away in the rich sky, and faint into nothingness on hill and field and river;
but echoes of our thoughts, our feelings, of ourselves, roll on from one soul to another and
grow in power forever and forever.

The music in the lyric is dependent upon the choice of words and the arrangement of words.
The words are chosen because of their meaning and because of the sounds which compose them.
They are so arranged that the sequence is melodious and that the accents fall where needed
to perfect the meter. The first three lines are perfectly smooth and regular, but the fourth
is an abrupt change; "And the wild cataract leaps in glory" suggests power and strong interrupted
motion. The last two lines of the stanza are somewhat irregular in meter, and the double repetition
of the last word suggests the time elapsing while the echoes are flying back and forth between
the surrounding cliffs, growing fainter and fainter with each repetition. In reading we show
this: "Blow, bugle," is the original sound; we pause for the echoes to answer, "dying, dying,
dying."

In the second stanza the poet has selected words in which the vowels have thin and delicate sounds:

            "how thin and clear,
    And thinner, clearer, farther going!"

So soft are the echoes that they suggest to the poet the delicate refrain from the musical
instruments of fairies, and he describes it in the poetic phrase,

    "The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!"

In the next to the last line there are five feet and one added syllable, if we consider that
the pause which we naturally make before the word set is equivalent to a syllable. In the last
line there are six feet with an added syllable. This additional foot which appears in the last
line of every stanza is introduced to imitate the lingering death of the echoes.

After this study of the poem it should be read several times aloud in an effort to bring out
the music; the first stanza in the pitch of ordinary conversation, with force in the fourth
line and lingering intonations in the last line. The pitch of the second stanza should be higher,
and it will be easily attained because of the predominance of the thin vowels. The third stanza
calls for a pitch lower than the first and a slowness and solemnity of movement quite in contrast
to the moderate rate of the first and the liveliness and gaiety of the second. It will be seen
in these readings that there is an overlying melody in the stanzas, quite distinct from the
rhythm that depends upon the meter, and that in the reading the meter naturally falls subservient
to the melody of the phrases. In fact, in a poem of this kind the meter should be forgotten
in the reading, which should give itself wholly to bringing out the meaning expressively, and
to making the voice harmonize with the rich music of the lines.

An analysis of The Bugle Song will seem superfluous to the cultivated reader, but if these
suggestions help the learner to see something new, to feel more acutely, to realize beauty
more abundantly, their purpose is accomplished.

The Petrified Fern

(Volume VII, page 77)

Some day when you want an interesting and delightful nature lesson that is a little out of
the ordinary, get, if you can, a fossil fern. If you are in the city, doubtless you can get
one from the museum, or, better yet, you may find that among your pupils there is someone who
has such a specimen carefully treasured away. In some localities where the limestone rock comes
to the surface, especially in the coal measures, these petrified ferns are very numerous. Show
this to the class and get them all interested in it.

If you cannot get a specimen to use, you can find a picture in the encyclopedia or geology,
or you can tell the pupils how in some places it is possible to pick up from among the rocks
on the surface of the ground oblong pieces perhaps a half inch thick, in which, when they are
split open, you can see the impression of a fern, every vein showing plainly and looking as
clear in the dull gray as it showed when alive in its green dress.

Tell the story of the fern something after this fashion:

"Hundreds and hundreds of years ago, so many years, in fact, that none of us can tell how many,
somewhere in a valley, there grew a beautiful little fern, green and slender. It was as tender
and delicate as the ones you can find in the woods now, and grew in just such a shady place.
When the breezes crept down under the trees they waved the fern gracefully about so that it
gently touched the tall rushes that grew above it and cast little shadows on the moss at its
feet. Now and then a playful sunbeam darted through the crevices in the leaves and found the
fern, and at night drops of dew stole silently in and made a glistening crown upon its head.
But there were no children then to find it. It was long, long ago, when the earth was young,
and nowhere on its broad surface was a single human child.

"Out in the silent sea fishes larger than any that can be found now were swimming about. Across
the plains of the earth animals of wonderful shapes and enormous size stalked clumsily and
found their way into stately forests. No man ever saw growing such trees as waved their giant
branches over the earth, for then Nature made things on a grander scale than she does now.
The little fern, however, was wild and simple, and lived in its home unnoticed and uncared
for by any of the great creatures or the mighty trees. Still it grew on modestly in its own
sweet way, spreading its fronds and becoming more beautiful every day.

"Then suddenly one day the earth heaved up its mighty rocks and threw them about in every direction.
The strong currents of the ocean broke loose and flooded over the land. They drowned the animals,
moved the plain, tore down the haughty woods and cast the great trunks about like straw. They
broke the little fern from its slender stalk, and burying it deep in soft moist clay, hid it
safely away.

"Many, many long centuries have passed since the day the useless little fern was lost. Millions
of human beings have come upon the earth, have lived and been happy, have suffered, passed
away, and have been forgotten. The soft, moist clay that clasped the fern hardened into rock
and kept safely in its strong prison the delicate little frond.

"Then one day, not long ago, a thoughtful man studying Nature's secrets far and wide found
up in a valley where a stream had worn a deep fissure, a queer little rock. When he looked
at it, he saw running over it a strange design, as though some fairy with its magic pencil
had drawn the outline of a fern with every vein distinct, showing in every line the life of
the long-lost plant. It was the fern I told you about.

"Isn't it strange that so delicate a thing as a fern could be kept clear and fine through all
those thousands of years when the earth was changing and growing, and then finally be thrown
up where a man could find it and read its whole history? The poet, Mary Bolles Branch, saw
the little fern and wrote the beautiful lines which I now want to read to you."

(Here read the poem, The Petrified Fern, found in Journeys, Volume VII, page 77.)

There are very few words or expressions in the poem that will require any explanation. At the
end of the first stanza the phrase "keeping holiday" means that as there were no human beings
on the earth, there was no real work being done.

At the end of the first line in the second stanza the word main is an old term that means ocean.

The last two lines of the third stanza are meant to show how different life has been on the
planet since man came. Until he appeared there was no real agony; there was pain, for animals
can suffer, but it takes a mind and soul to know agony. Man cannot live except with suffering
and at a bitter cost.

Until the last two lines of the fourth stanza are reached the poem is merely a beautiful and
musical narrative. The last two lines are the thought that comes to the poet when she considers
the history of the little fern. It is thinking such thoughts as this that make the poet different
from ordinary men. You and I might see the impression of the fern and think it beautiful, but
its beauty would not suggest to us the comforting idea that

    *  *  * "God hides some souls away
    Sweetly to surprise us, the last day."

Our own poet Longfellow, in The Builders, voices a similar thought when he says:

    "Nothing useless is, or low;
       Each thing in its place is best;
     And what seems but idle show
       Strengthens and supports the rest."

After you have presented these thoughts, read the poem again to the children. Call attention
to its musical structure, its simplicity, the beauty of its expressions, and then read it a
third time. It is one of those beautiful things which may well be committed to memory.

It will be found very helpful, too, for the children to write the story in prose and try to
bring out the meaning. Let them use freely the words of the poem, but a different arrangement
of words, so that there shall be left no trace of rhyme or meter in their prose.

The Forsaken Merman

(Volume VII, page 180)

One of the satisfactory poems for study in the middle years of school life is the one whose
name heads this paragraph. It is a great favorite with most children who know it, but it has
not found its way largely into school use. For both of these reasons it is worthy of study.

I. Preparation and General Plan. Let the children read in turn, each taking one stanza, and
if a second reading seems desirable let them exchange stanzas so that each will have a part
new to himself. Be sure to have a final reading, by yourself or by the best reader among the
children, which shall be continuous and without interruption; otherwise the beautiful unity
of idea and the relation of the different parts will be overlooked.

II. Words and Phrases and Sentences. It is well to begin with the study sentence by sentence.
See that the meaning is clear. The following suggestions may be of assistance:

Page 180, line 6. "Wild white horses"; the breakers, where the waves are beaten into foam and
flying spray.

Line 7. "Champ"; gnash their bits.

Page 182, line 4. "Stream." The ocean currents resemble streams of water on land.

Line 8. "Mail"; scales. How could the snakes dry their mail?

Line 10. "Unshut." Do fish have eyelids? Is a whale a fish? Does a whale have eyelids? Do most
people think of a whale as a fish?

Line 18. "Sate" is an old form for "sat." Can you find other old or unusual words or expressions?
Why does the poet use them?

Line 25. "Merman." The literature of the ancients contained frequent allusions to mermaids,
who were strange creatures with heads of beautiful, long-haired maidens, but with scaly bodies
and the tails of fish. In pictures they are usually represented as sitting upon reefs holding
a mirror in one hand and combing their long locks with the other. Holmes, in The Chambered
Nautilus, speaks of the "cold sea-maids" who "rise to sun their streaming hair." Mermen were
not so often spoken of, but there are some allusions to them. In later times the mermaids were
considered more as fairies, and there were many stories of human children being taken to live
with the mermaids, and of the latter coming upon land to live like men and women. There was,
too, a belief that sea-folk had no souls, and that a person who went to live with them would
lose his soul. The beautiful picture on page 181 shows the forsaken family.

Line 10, from the bottom. "Leaded panes." The small panes of stained glass in the church windows
are set in narrow leaden frames.

Page 185, line 4. "Heaths" and "broom". The English and Scotch heathers are little bushy shrubs
that cover the hills and fields. They bear beautiful little bell-like pink or white flowers.
The trailing arbutus, the blueberry and the wintergreen are some of our native plants belonging
to the same family. The broom plant is another low shrub that bears rather large yellow blossoms,
shaped like the flowers of peas and beans. The old-time country-folk used bundles of these
shrubs for brooms.

Line 10. There have been several allusions to tides. If the children do not understand the
subject, be sure to explain how different a shore looks at high and at low tide. The change
is most noticeable where the water is shallow, for then long stretches of sea-bottom may be
uncovered at low tide.

III. The Story. Bring out by questions these facts which constitute the "plot," or incidents:

1. A merman, who has a family of children (five, the artist says, page 181), has been deserted
by his human wife.

2. The father and children are on shore trying to persuade the mother to return. The father
feels that all must go back.

3. He begs the children to call their mother once more, for he thinks that childish voices,
wild with pain, may induce her to come.

4. He feels discouraged.

5. He tells how she became alarmed and left them at Easter time to return to her church and
pray, that she might save the soul she feared she was losing.

6. The father and children had come on shore to find their mother. She was seen praying in
the church, working at her spinning wheel at home, happy but apparently not wholly forgetful
of her family in the sea, for she sighed and dropped a tear as she looked over the sand to the sea.

7. The father feels that his wife is cruel and faithless and that she has deserted, forever,
himself and his family, the kings of the sea.

IV. The Characters. Question the children till they see clearly the persons.

1. The principal character is the deserted merman, a king of the sea. Ought he to expect his
wife to stay with him?

2. The wife, a human being who has loved a merman, and who has a family of sea children, but
who has suddenly become awakened to the danger to her soul. Is she selfish? Ought she to have
forsaken her family? Can she really be happy away from her husband and family?

3. The children. How many were there? How old were they? Were there both boys and girls? Do
you think Mr. Reese had a clear idea of the family when he drew the picture (page 181)? There
must have been at least three, for it is said that the mother tended the youngest well; at
least one girl, for the mother sighed for the strange eyes of a little mermaiden.

4. The priest.

V. Pictures. Two series of pictures are kept side by side all the time; one of the land, and
the other of the sea. Try to create a vivid scene from each.

First, on land: We can see a little town, nestling on the side of a bleak, wind-swept hill,
an old English town with a white stone wall all around it. On the hill, which is too rough
to be cultivated, grow great fields of heather, studded with the golden blossoms of broom-plant.
A little gray stone church stands surrounded by its yard, where the village dead are buried,
for such was the old custom in England. The stones are at the head of the graves, and the walls
of the church are rain- and storm-worn, but bright stained-glass windows in the building and
flowers and trees among the graves make the place very beautiful. Some of the windows are clear,
so that you can look through and gaze along the aisle bordered by high wooden pews and see
the priest reading service, and, by one of the stone pillars, the merman's wife, her eyes steadily
gazing at the bible in her lap. You are privileged, too, to peep into one of the thatched cottages,
and see the mother turning the old-fashioned spinning wheel. From her house there is a wide
view down the hill, across the bay and out to sea. At high tide the breakers dash madly against
the shore, but at low tide there is a broad strip of silver sand, rocks covered with sea-weed,
and in the low places, creeks and pools of salt water. Does the artist's picture represent
high or low tide?

Second, at sea: Deep beneath the surface of the water where the waves toss and roar, where
the surf and spray dash madly about, are great caverns strewn with white sand. It is cool down
there in the depths, and the light filtering through the clear green sea is weak and pale.
The water streams through caverns, swaying the exquisite sea-weeds that line the walls; and
outside, round about, whales, sea-snakes and all manner of water beasts swim in play or struggle
for mastery. In one of the caverns stands a great throne of red gold, ornamented with graceful
sea fringe, pearls and amber. From without one may gaze up to the amber-colored ceiling, or
down to the pavement of lustrous pearl. It was this wondrous palace that the mermaid abandoned
for the sake of her soul.

VI. Sentiment. It is, on the whole, a sad poem, though a few cheering thoughts are suggested
by it. Without an attempt at classification and analysis, here are a few choice ideas taken
in order as they occur:

Page 180. "Children's voices should be dear to a mother's ear."

Page 183. "Long prayers in the world they say."

Page 183. "Oh joy, for the blessed light of the sun!"

Page 185. The last stanza shows very pleasingly the faithfulness of father and children, in
contrast to the inconstancy of the mother.

VII. Beauty. Besides its sentiment, the poem gives us other beauties in great number. Here
are some of them:

