It was that room (the first, after ascending the staircase) in the centre of which reclines
the noble and most pathetic figure of the Dying Gladiator, just sinking into his death-swoon.
Around the walls stand the Antinous, the Amazon, the Lycian Apollo, the Juno; all famous productions
of antique sculpture, and still shining in the undiminished majesty and beauty of their ideal
life, although the marble that embodies them is yellow with time, and perhaps corroded by the
damp earth in which they lay buried for centuries. Here, likewise, is seen a symbol (as apt
at this moment as it was two thousand years ago) of the Human Soul, with its choice of Innocence
or Evil close at hand, in the pretty figure of a child, clasping a dove to her bosom, but assaulted
by a snake.

From one of the windows of this saloon, we may see a flight of broad stone steps, descending
alongside the antique and massive foundation of the Capitol, towards the battered triumphal
arch of Septimius Severus, right below. Farther on, the eye skirts along the edge of the desolate
Forum (where Roman washerwomen hang out their linen to the sun), passing over a shapeless confusion
of modern edifices, piled rudely up with ancient brick and stone, and over the domes of Christian
churches, built on the old pavements of heathen temples, and supported by the very pillars
that once upheld them. At a distance beyond--yet but a little way, considering how much history
is heaped into the intervening space--rises the great sweep of the Coliseum, with the blue
sky brightening through its upper tier of arches. Far off, the view is shut in by the Alban
Mountains, looking just the same, amid all this decay and change, as when Romulus gazed thitherward
over his half finished wall.

We glance hastily at these things,--at this bright sky, and those blue distant mountains, and
at the ruins, Etruscan, Roman, Christian, venerable with a threefold antiquity, and at the
company of world-famous statues in the saloon,--in the hope of putting the reader into that
state of feeling which is experienced oftenest at Rome. It is a vague sense of ponderous remembrances;
a perception of such weight and density in a bygone life, of which this spot was the centre,
that the present moment is pressed down or crowded out, and our individual affairs and interests
are but half as real here as elsewhere. Viewed through this medium, our narrative--into which
are woven some airy and unsubstantial threads, intermixed with others, twisted out of the commonest
stuff of human existence--may seem not widely different from the texture of all our lives.

Side by side with the massiveness of the Roman Past, all matters that we handle or dream of
nowadays look evanescent and visionary alike.

It might be that the four persons whom we are seeking to introduce were conscious of this dreamy
character of the present, as compared with the square blocks of granite wherewith the Romans
built their lives. Perhaps it even contributed to the fanciful merriment which was just now
their mood. When we find ourselves fading into shadows and unrealities, it seems hardly worth
while to be sad, but rather to laugh as gayly as we may, and ask little reason wherefore.

Of these four friends of ours, three were artists, or connected with art; and, at this moment,
they had been simultaneously struck by a resemblance between one of the antique statues, a
well-known masterpiece of Grecian sculpture, and a young Italian, the fourth member of their party.

"You must needs confess, Kenyon," said a dark-eyed young woman, whom her friends called Miriam,
"that you never chiselled out of marble, nor wrought in clay, a more vivid likeness than this,
cunning a bust-maker as you think yourself. The portraiture is perfect in character, sentiment,
and feature. If it were a picture, the resemblance might be half illusive and imaginary; but
here, in this Pentelic marble, it is a substantial fact, and may be tested by absolute touch
and measurement. Our friend Donatello is the very Faun of Praxiteles. Is it not true, Hilda?"

"Not quite--almost--yes, I really think so," replied Hilda, a slender, brown-haired, New England
girl, whose perceptions of form and expression were wonderfully clear and delicate. "If there
is any difference between the two faces, the reason may be, I suppose, that the Faun dwelt
in woods and fields, and consorted with his like; whereas Donatello has known cities a little,
and such people as ourselves. But the resemblance is very close, and very strange."

"Not so strange," whispered Miriam mischievously; "for no Faun in Arcadia was ever a greater
simpleton than Donatello. He has hardly a man's share of wit, small as that may be. It is a
pity there are no longer any of this congenial race of rustic creatures for our friend to consort
with!"

"Hush, naughty one!" returned Hilda. "You are very ungrateful, for you well know he has wit
enough to worship you, at all events."

"Then the greater fool he!" said Miriam so bitterly that Hilda's quiet eyes were somewhat startled.

"Donatello, my dear friend," said Kenyon, in Italian, "pray gratify us all by taking the exact
attitude of this statue."

The young man laughed, and threw himself into the position in which the statue has been standing
for two or three thousand years. In truth, allowing for the difference of costume, and if a
lion's skin could have been substituted for his modern talma, and a rustic pipe for his stick,
Donatello might have figured perfectly as the marble Faun, miraculously softened into flesh
and blood.

"Yes; the resemblance is wonderful," observed Kenyon, after examining the marble and the man
with the accuracy of a sculptor's eye. "There is one point, however, or, rather, two points,
in respect to which our friend Donatello's abundant curls will not permit us to say whether
the likeness is carried into minute detail."

And the sculptor directed the attention of the party to the ears of the beautiful statue which
they were contemplating.

But we must do more than merely refer to this exquisite work of art; it must be described,
however inadequate may be the effort to express its magic peculiarity in words.

The Faun is the marble image of a young man, leaning his right arm on the trunk or stump of
a tree; one hand hangs carelessly by his side; in the other he holds the fragment of a pipe,
or some such sylvan instrument of music. His only garment--a lion's skin, with the claws upon
his shoulder--falls halfway down his back, leaving the limbs and entire front of the figure
nude. The form, thus displayed, is marvellously graceful, but has a fuller and more rounded
outline, more flesh, and less of heroic muscle, than the old sculptors were wont to assign
to their types of masculine beauty. The character of the face corresponds with the figure;
it is most agreeable in outline and feature, but rounded and somewhat voluptuously developed,
especially about the throat and chin; the nose is almost straight, but very slightly curves
inward, thereby acquiring an indescribable charm of geniality and humor. The mouth, with its
full yet delicate lips, seems so nearly to smile outright, that it calls forth a responsive
smile. The whole statue--unlike anything else that ever was wrought in that severe material
of marble--conveys the idea of an amiable and sensual creature, easy, mirthful, apt for jollity,
yet not incapable of being touched by pathos. It is impossible to gaze long at this stone image
without conceiving a kindly sentiment towards it, as if its substance were warm to the touch,
and imbued with actual life. It comes very close to some of our pleasantest sympathies.

Perhaps it is the very lack of moral severity, of any high and heroic ingredient in the character
of the Faun, that makes it so delightful an object to the human eye and to the frailty of the
human heart. The being here represented is endowed with no principle of virtue, and would be
incapable of comprehending such; but he would be true and honest by dint of his simplicity.
We should expect from him no sacrifice or effort for an abstract cause; there is not an atom
of martyr's stuff in all that softened marble; but he has a capacity for strong and warm attachment,
and might act devotedly through its impulse, and even die for it at need. It is possible, too,
that the Faun might be educated through the medium of his emotions, so that the coarser animal
portion of his nature might eventually be thrown into the background, though never utterly
expelled.

The animal nature, indeed, is a most essential part of the Faun's composition; for the characteristics
of the brute creation meet and combine with those of humanity in this strange yet true and
natural conception of antique poetry and art. Praxiteles has subtly diffused throughout his
work that mute mystery, which so hopelessly perplexes us whenever we attempt to gain an intellectual
or sympathetic knowledge of the lower orders of creation. The riddle is indicated, however,
only by two definite signs: these are the two ears of the Faun, which are leaf shaped, terminating
in little peaks, like those of some species of animals. Though not so seen in the marble, they
are probably to be considered as clothed in fine, downy fur. In the coarser representations
of this class of mythological creatures, there is another token of brute kindred,--a certain
caudal appendage; which, if the Faun of Praxiteles must be supposed to possess it at all, is
hidden by the lion's skin that forms his garment. The pointed and furry ears, therefore, are
the sole indications of his wild, forest nature.

Only a sculptor of the finest imagination, the most delicate taste, the sweetest feeling, and
the rarest artistic skill--in a word, a sculptor and a poet too--could have first dreamed of
a Faun in this guise, and then have succeeded in imprisoning the sportive and frisky thing
in marble. Neither man nor animal, and yet no monster, but a being in whom both races meet
on friendly ground. The idea grows coarse as we handle it, and hardens in our grasp. But, if
the spectator broods long over the statue, he will be conscious of its spell; all the pleasantness
of sylvan life, all the genial and happy characteristics of creatures that dwell in woods and
fields, will seem to be mingled and kneaded into one substance, along with the kindred qualities
in the human soul. Trees, grass, flowers, woodland streamlets, cattle, deer, and unsophisticated
man. The essence of all these was compressed long ago, and still exists, within that discolored
marble surface of the Faun of Praxiteles.

CHAPTER II

THE FAUN

"Donatello," playfully cried Miriam, "do not leave us in this perplexity! Shake aside those
brown curls, my friend, and let us see whether this marvellous resemblance extends to the very
tips of the ears. If so, we shall like you all the better!"

"No, no, dearest signorina," answered Donatello, laughing, but with a certain earnestness.
"I entreat you to take the tips of my ears for granted." As he spoke, the young Italian made
a skip and jump, light enough for a veritable faun; so as to place himself quite beyond the
reach of the fair hand that was outstretched, as if to settle the matter by actual examination.
"I shall be like a wolf of the Apennines," he continued, taking his stand on the other side
of the Dying Gladiator, "if you touch my ears ever so softly. None of my race could endure
it. It has always been a tender point with my forefathers and me."

He spoke in Italian, with the Tuscan rusticity of accent, and an unshaped sort of utterance,
betokening that he must heretofore have been chiefly conversant with rural people.

"Well, well," said Miriam, "your tender point--your two tender points, if you have them--shall
be safe, so far as I am concerned. But how strange this likeness is, after all! and how delightful,
if it really includes the pointed ears! O, it is impossible, of course," she continued, in
English, "with a real and commonplace young man like Donatello; but you see how this peculiarity
defines the position of the Faun; and, while putting him where he cannot exactly assert his
brotherhood, still disposes us kindly towards the kindred creature. He is not supernatural,
but just on the verge of nature, and yet within it. What is the nameless charm of this idea,
Hilda? You can feel it more delicately than I."

"It perplexes me," said Hilda thoughtfully, and shrinking a little; "neither do I quite like
to think about it."

"But, surely," said Kenyon, "you agree with Miriam and me that there is something very touching
and impressive in this statue of the Faun. In some long-past age, he must really have existed.
Nature needed, and still needs, this beautiful creature; standing betwixt man and animal, sympathizing
with each, comprehending the speech of either race, and interpreting the whole existence of
one to the other. What a pity that he has forever vanished from the hard and dusty paths of
life,--unless," added the sculptor, in a sportive whisper, "Donatello be actually he!"

"You cannot conceive how this fantasy takes hold of me," responded Miriam, between jest and
earnest. "Imagine, now, a real being, similar to this mythic Faun; how happy, how genial, how
satisfactory would be his life, enjoying the warm, sensuous, earthy side of nature; revelling
in the merriment of woods and streams; living as our four-footed kindred do,--as mankind did
in its innocent childhood; before sin, sorrow or morality itself had ever been thought of!
Ah! Kenyon, if Hilda and you and I--if I, at least--had pointed ears! For I suppose the Faun
had no conscience, no remorse, no burden on the heart, no troublesome recollections of any
sort; no dark future either."

"What a tragic tone was that last, Miriam!" said the sculptor; and, looking into her face,
he was startled to behold it pale and tear-stained. "How suddenly this mood has come over you!"

"Let it go as it came," said Miriam, "like a thunder-shower in this Roman sky. All is sunshine
again, you see!"

Donatello's refractoriness as regarded his ears had evidently cost him something, and he now
came close to Miriam's side, gazing at her with an appealing air, as if to solicit forgiveness.
His mute, helpless gesture of entreaty had something pathetic in it, and yet might well enough
excite a laugh, so like it was to what you may see in the aspect of a hound when he thinks
himself in fault or disgrace. It was difficult to make out the character of this young man.
There was an indefinable characteristic about Donatello that set him outside of rules.

He caught Miriam's hand, kissed it, and gazed into her eyes without saying a word. She smiled,
and bestowed on him a little careless caress, singularly like what one would give to a pet
dog when he puts himself in the way to receive it. Not that it was so decided a caress either,
but only the merest touch, somewhere between a pat and a tap of the finger; it might be a mark
of fondness, or perhaps a playful pretence of punishment. At all events, it appeared to afford
Donatello exquisite pleasure; insomuch that he danced quite round the wooden railing that fences
in the Dying Gladiator.

"It is the very step of the Dancing Faun," said Miriam, apart, to Hilda. "What a child, or
what a simpleton, he is! I continually find myself treating Donatello as if he were the merest
unfledged chicken; and yet he can claim no such privileges in the right of his tender age,
for he is at least--how old should you think him, Hilda?"

"Twenty years, perhaps," replied Hilda, glancing at Donatello; "but, indeed, I cannot tell;
hardly so old, on second thoughts, or possibly older. He has nothing to do with time, but has
a look of eternal youth in his face."

"All underwitted people have that look," said Miriam scornfully.

"Donatello has certainly the gift of eternal youth, as Hilda suggests," observed Kenyon, laughing;
"for, judging by the date of this statue, which, I am more and more convinced, Praxiteles carved
on purpose for him, he must be at least twenty-five centuries old, and he still looks as young
as ever."

"What age have you, Donatello?" asked Miriam.

"Signorina, I do not know," he answered; "no great age, however; for I have only lived since
I met you."

"Now, what old man of society could have turned a silly compliment more smartly than that!"
exclaimed Miriam. "Nature and art are just at one sometimes. But what a happy ignorance is
this of our friend Donatello! Not to know his own age! It is equivalent to being immortal on
earth. If I could only forget mine!"

"It is too soon to wish that," observed the sculptor; "you are scarcely older than Donatello
looks."

"I shall be content, then," rejoined Miriam, "if I could only forget one day of all my life."
Then she seemed to repent of this allusion, and hastily added, "A woman's days are so tedious
that it is a boon to leave even one of them out of the account."

The foregoing conversation had been carried on in a mood in which all imaginative people, whether
artists or poets, love to indulge. In this frame of mind, they sometimes find their profoundest
truths side by side with the idlest jest, and utter one or the other, apparently without distinguishing
which is the most valuable, or assigning any considerable value to either. The resemblance
between the marble Faun and their living companion had made a deep, half-serious, half-mirthful
impression on these three friends, and had taken them into a certain airy region, lifting up,
as it is so pleasant to feel them lifted, their heavy earthly feet from the actual soil of
life. The world had been set afloat, as it were, for a moment, and relieved them, for just
so long, of all customary responsibility for what they thought and said.

It might be under this influence--or, perhaps, because sculptors always abuse one another's
works--that Kenyon threw in a criticism upon the Dying Gladiator.

"I used to admire this statue exceedingly," he remarked, "but, latterly, I find myself getting
weary and annoyed that the man should be such a length of time leaning on his arm in the very
act of death. If he is so terribly hurt, why does he not sink down and die without further
ado? Flitting moments, imminent emergencies, imperceptible intervals between two breaths, ought
not to be incrusted with the eternal repose of marble; in any sculptural subject, there should
be a moral standstill, since there must of necessity be a physical one. Otherwise, it is like
flinging a block of marble up into the air, and, by some trick of enchantment, causing it to
stick there. You feel that it ought to come down, and are dissatisfied that it does not obey
the natural law."

"I see," said Miriam mischievously, "you think that sculpture should be a sort of fossilizing
process. But, in truth, your frozen art has nothing like the scope and freedom of Hilda's and
mine. In painting there is no similar objection to the representation of brief snatches of
time,--perhaps because a story can be so much more fully told in picture, and buttressed about
with circumstances that give it an epoch. For instance, a painter never would have sent down
yonder Faun out of his far antiquity, lonely and desolate, with no companion to keep his simple
heart warm."

"Ah, the Faun!" cried Hilda, with a little gesture of impatience; "I have been looking at him
too long; and now, instead of a beautiful statue, immortally young, I see only a corroded and
discolored stone. This change is very apt to occur in statues."

"And a similar one in pictures, surely," retorted the sculptor. "It is the spectator's mood
that transfigures the Transfiguration itself. I defy any painter to move and elevate me without
my own consent and assistance."

"Then you are deficient of a sense," said Miriam.

The party now strayed onward from hall to hall of that rich gallery, pausing here and there,
to look at the multitude of noble and lovely shapes, which have been dug up out of the deep
grave in which old Rome lies buried. And still, the realization of the antique Faun, in the
person of Donatello, gave a more vivid character to all these marble ghosts. Why should not
each statue grow warm with life! Antinous might lift his brow, and tell us why he is forever
sad. The Lycian Apollo might strike his lyre; and, at the first vibration, that other Faun
in red marble, who keeps up a motionless dance, should frisk gayly forth, leading yonder Satyrs,
with shaggy goat-shanks, to clatter their little hoofs upon the floor, and all join hands with
Donatello! Bacchus, too, a rosy flush diffusing itself over his time-stained surface, could
come down from his pedestal, and offer a cluster of purple grapes to Donatello's lips; because
the god recognizes him as the woodland elf who so often shared his revels. And here, in this
sarcophagus, the exquisitely carved figures might assume life, and chase one another round
its verge with that wild merriment which is so strangely represented on those old burial coffers:
though still with some subtile allusion to death, carefully veiled, but forever peeping forth
amid emblems of mirth and riot.

As the four friends descended the stairs, however, their play of fancy subsided into a much
more sombre mood; a result apt to follow upon such exhilaration as that which had so recently
taken possession of them.

"Do you know," said Miriam confidentially to Hilda, "I doubt the reality of this likeness of
Donatello to the Faun, which we have been talking so much about? To say the truth, it never
struck me so forcibly as it did Kenyon and yourself, though I gave in to whatever you were
pleased to fancy, for the sake of a moment's mirth and wonder." "I was certainly in earnest,
and you seemed equally so," replied Hilda, glancing back at Donatello, as if to reassure herself
of the resemblance. "But faces change so much, from hour to hour, that the same set of features
has often no keeping with itself; to an eye, at least, which looks at expression more than
outline. How sad and sombre he has grown all of a sudden!" "Angry too, methinks! nay, it is
anger much more than sadness," said Miriam. "I have seen Donatello in this mood once or twice
before. If you consider him well, you will observe an odd mixture of the bulldog, or some other
equally fierce brute, in our friend's composition; a trait of savageness hardly to be expected
in such a gentle creature as he usually is. Donatello is a very strange young man. I wish he
would not haunt my footsteps so continually."

"You have bewitched the poor lad," said the sculptor, laughing. "You have a faculty of bewitching
people, and it is providing you with a singular train of followers. I see another of them behind
yonder pillar; and it is his presence that has aroused Donatello's wrath."

They had now emerged from the gateway of the palace; and partly concealed by one of the pillars
of the portico stood a figure such as may often be encountered in the streets and piazzas of
Rome, and nowhere else. He looked as if he might just have stepped out of a picture, and, in
truth, was likely enough to find his way into a dozen pictures; being no other than one of
those living models, dark, bushy bearded, wild of aspect and attire, whom artists convert into
saints or assassins, according as their pictorial purposes demand.

"Miriam," whispered Hilda, a little startled, "it is your model!"

CHAPTER III

SUBTERRANEAN REMINISCENCES

Miriam's model has so important a connection with our story, that it is essential to describe
the singular mode of his first appearance, and how he subsequently became a self-appointed
follower of the young female artist. In the first place, however, we must devote a page or
two to certain peculiarities in the position of Miriam herself.

There was an ambiguity about this young lady, which, though it did not necessarily imply anything
wrong, would have operated unfavorably as regarded her reception in society, anywhere but in
Rome. The truth was, that nobody knew anything about Miriam, either for good or evil. She had
made her appearance without introduction, had taken a studio, put her card upon the door, and
showed very considerable talent as a painter in oils. Her fellow professors of the brush, it
is true, showered abundant criticisms upon her pictures, allowing them to be well enough for
the idle half-efforts of an amateur, but lacking both the trained skill and the practice that
distinguish the works of a true artist.

Nevertheless, be their faults what they might, Miriam's pictures met with good acceptance among
the patrons of modern art. Whatever technical merit they lacked, its absence was more than
supplied by a warmth and passionateness, which she had the faculty of putting into her productions,
and which all the world could feel. Her nature had a great deal of color, and, in accordance
with it, so likewise had her pictures.

Miriam had great apparent freedom of intercourse; her manners were so far from evincing shyness,
that it seemed easy to become acquainted with her, and not difficult to develop a casual acquaintance
into intimacy. Such, at least, was the impression which she made, upon brief contact, but not
such the ultimate conclusion of those who really sought to know her. So airy, free, and affable
was Miriam's deportment towards all who came within her sphere, that possibly they might never
be conscious of the fact, but so it was, that they did not get on, and were seldom any further
advanced into her good graces to-day than yesterday. By some subtile quality, she kept people
at a distance, without so much as letting them know that they were excluded from her inner
circle. She resembled one of those images of light, which conjurers evoke and cause to shine
before us, in apparent tangibility, only an arm's length beyond our grasp: we make a step in
advance, expecting to seize the illusion, but find it still precisely so far out of our reach.
Finally, society began to recognize the impossibility of getting nearer to Miriam, and gruffly
acquiesced.

There were two persons, however, whom she appeared to acknowledge as friends in the closer
and truer sense of the word; and both of these more favored individuals did credit to Miriam's
selection. One was a young American sculptor, of high promise and rapidly increasing celebrity;
the other, a girl of the same country, a painter like Miriam herself, but in a widely different
sphere of art. Her heart flowed out towards these two; she requited herself by their society
and friendship (and especially by Hilda's) for all the loneliness with which, as regarded the
rest of the world, she chose to be surrounded. Her two friends were conscious of the strong,
yearning grasp which Miriam laid upon them, and gave her their affection in full measure; Hilda,
indeed, responding with the fervency of a girl's first friendship, and Kenyon with a manly
regard, in which there was nothing akin to what is distinctively called love.

A sort of intimacy subsequently grew up between these three friends and a fourth individual;
it was a young Italian, who, casually visiting Rome, had been attracted by the beauty which
Miriam possessed in a remarkable degree. He had sought her, followed her, and insisted, with
simple perseverance, upon being admitted at least to her acquaintance; a boon which had been
granted, when a more artful character, seeking it by a more subtle mode of pursuit, would probably
have failed to obtain it. This young man, though anything but intellectually brilliant, had
many agreeable characteristics which won him the kindly and half-contemptuous regard of Miriam
and her two friends. It was he whom they called Donatello, and whose wonderful resemblance
to the Faun of Praxiteles forms the keynote of our narrative.

Such was the position in which we find Miriam some few months after her establishment at Rome.
It must be added, however, that the world did not permit her to hide her antecedents without
making her the subject of a good deal of conjecture; as was natural enough, considering the
abundance of her personal charms, and the degree of notice that she attracted as an artist.
There were many stories about Miriam's origin and previous life, some of which had a very probable
air, while others were evidently wild and romantic fables. We cite a few, leaving the reader
to designate them either under the probable or the romantic head.

It was said, for example, that Miriam was the daughter and heiress of a great Jewish banker
(an idea perhaps suggested by a certain rich Oriental character in her face), and had fled
from her paternal home to escape a union with a cousin, the heir of another of that golden
brotherhood; the object being to retain their vast accumulation of wealth within the family.
Another story hinted that she was a German princess, whom, for reasons of state, it was proposed
to give in marriage either to a decrepit sovereign, or a prince still in his cradle. According
to a third statement, she was the off-spring of a Southern American planter, who had given
her an elaborate education and endowed her with his wealth; but the one burning drop of African
blood in her veins so affected her with a sense of ignominy, that she relinquished all and
fled her country. By still another account she was the lady of an English nobleman; and, out
of mere love and honor of art, had thrown aside the splendor of her rank, and come to seek
a subsistence by her pencil in a Roman studio.

In all the above cases, the fable seemed to be instigated by the large and bounteous impression
which Miriam invariably made, as if necessity and she could have nothing to do with one another.
Whatever deprivations she underwent must needs be voluntary. But there were other surmises,
taking such a commonplace view as that Miriam was the daughter of a merchant or financier,
who had been ruined in a great commercial crisis; and, possessing a taste for art, she had
attempted to support herself by the pencil, in preference to the alternative of going out as
governess.

Be these things how they might, Miriam, fair as she looked, was plucked up out of a mystery,
and had its roots still clinging to her. She was a beautiful and attractive woman, but based,
as it were, upon a cloud, and all surrounded with misty substance; so that the result was to
render her sprite-like in her most ordinary manifestations. This was the case even in respect
to Kenyon and Hilda, her especial friends. But such was the effect of Miriam's natural language,
her generosity, kindliness, and native truth of character, that these two received her as a
dear friend into their hearts, taking her good qualities as evident and genuine, and never
imagining that what was hidden must be therefore evil.

We now proceed with our narrative.

The same party of friends, whom we have seen at the sculpture-gallery of the Capitol, chanced
to have gone together, some months before, to the catacomb of St. Calixtus. They went joyously
down into that vast tomb, and wandered by torchlight through a sort of dream, in which reminiscences
of church aisles and grimy cellars--and chiefly the latter--seemed to be broken into fragments,
and hopelessly intermingled. The intricate passages along which they followed their guide had
been hewn, in some forgotten age, out of a dark-red, crumbly stone. On either side were horizontal
niches, where, if they held their torches closely, the shape of a human body was discernible
in white ashes, into which the entire mortality of a man or woman had resolved itself. Among
all this extinct dust, there might perchance be a thigh-bone, which crumbled at a touch; or
possibly a skull, grinning at its own wretched plight, as is the ugly and empty habit of the thing.

Sometimes their gloomy pathway tended upward, so that, through a crevice, a little daylight
glimmered down upon them, or even a streak of sunshine peeped into a burial niche; then again,
they went downward by gradual descent, or by abrupt, rudely hewn steps, into deeper and deeper
recesses of the earth. Here and there the narrow and tortuous passages widened somewhat, developing
themselves into small chapels;--which once, no doubt, had been adorned with marble-work and
lighted with ever-burning lamps and tapers. All such illumination and ornament, however, had
long since been extinguished and stript away; except, indeed, that the low roofs of a few of
these ancient sites of worship were covered with dingy stucco, and frescoed with scriptural
scenes and subjects, in the dreariest stage of ruin.

In one such chapel, the guide showed them a low arch, beneath which the body of St. Cecilia
had been buried after her martyrdom, and where it lay till a sculptor saw it, and rendered
it forever beautiful in marble.

In a similar spot they found two sarcophagi, one containing a skeleton, and the other a shrivelled
body, which still wore the garments of its former lifetime.

"How dismal all this is!" said Hilda, shuddering. "I do not know why we came here, nor why
we should stay a moment longer."

"I hate it all!" cried Donatello with peculiar energy. "Dear friends, let us hasten back into
the blessed daylight!"

From the first, Donatello had shown little fancy for the expedition; for, like most Italians,
and in especial accordance with the law of his own simple and physically happy nature, this
young man had an infinite repugnance to graves and skulls, and to all that ghastliness which
the Gothic mind loves to associate with the idea of death. He shuddered, and looked fearfully
round, drawing nearer to Miriam, whose attractive influence alone had enticed him into that
gloomy region.

"What a child you are, poor Donatello!" she observed, with the freedom which she always used
towards him. "You are afraid of ghosts!"

"Yes, signorina; terribly afraid!" said the truthful Donatello.

"I also believe in ghosts," answered Miriam, "and could tremble at them, in a suitable place.
But these sepulchres are so old, and these skulls and white ashes so very dry, that methinks
they have ceased to be haunted. The most awful idea connected with the catacombs is their interminable
extent, and the possibility of going astray into this labyrinth of darkness, which broods around
the little glimmer of our tapers."

"Has any one ever been lost here?" asked Kenyon of the guide.

"Surely, signor; one, no longer ago than my father's time," said the guide; and he added, with
the air of a man who believed what he was telling, "but the first that went astray here was
a pagan of old Rome, who hid himself in order to spy out and betray the blessed saints, who
then dwelt and worshipped in these dismal places. You have heard the story, signor? A miracle
was wrought upon the accursed one; and, ever since (for fifteen centuries at least), he has
been groping in the darkness, seeking his way out of the catacomb."

"Has he ever been seen?" asked Hilda, who had great and tremulous faith in marvels of this kind.

"These eyes of mine never beheld him, signorina; the saints forbid!" answered the guide. "But
it is well known that he watches near parties that come into the catacomb, especially if they
be heretics, hoping to lead some straggler astray. What this lost wretch pines for, almost
as much as for the blessed sunshine, is a companion to be miserable with him."

"Such an intense desire for sympathy indicates something amiable in the poor fellow, at all
events," observed Kenyon.

They had now reached a larger chapel than those heretofore seen; it was of a circular shape,
and, though hewn out of the solid mass of red sandstone, had pillars, and a carved roof, and
other tokens of a regular architectural design. Nevertheless, considered as a church, it was
exceedingly minute, being scarcely twice a man's stature in height, and only two or three paces
from wall to wall; and while their collected torches illuminated this one small, consecrated
spot, the great darkness spread all round it, like that immenser mystery which envelops our
little life, and into which friends vanish from us, one by one. "Why, where is Miriam?" cried
Hilda. The party gazed hurriedly from face to face, and became aware that one of their party
had vanished into the great darkness, even while they were shuddering at the remote possibility
of such a misfortune.

CHAPTER IV

THE SPECTRE OF THE CATACOMB

"Surely, she cannot be lost!" exclaimed Kenyon. "It is but a moment since she was speaking."

"No, no!" said Hilda, in great alarm. "She was behind us all; and it is a long while since
we have heard her voice!"

"Torches! torches!" cried Donatello desperately. "I will seek her, be the darkness ever so dismal!"

But the guide held him back, and assured them all that there was no possibility of assisting
their lost companion, unless by shouting at the very top of their voices. As the sound would
go very far along these close and narrow passages, there was a fair probability that Miriam
might hear the call, and be able to retrace her steps.

Accordingly, they all--Kenyon with his bass voice; Donatello with his tenor; the guide with
that high and hard Italian cry, which makes the streets of Rome so resonant; and Hilda with
her slender scream, piercing farther than the united uproar of the rest--began to shriek, halloo,
and bellow, with the utmost force of their lungs. And, not to prolong the reader's suspense
(for we do not particularly seek to interest him in this scene, telling it only on account
of the trouble and strange entanglement which followed), they soon heard a responsive call,
in a female voice.

"It was the signorina!" cried Donatello joyfully.

"Yes; it was certainly dear Miriam's voice," said Hilda. "And here she comes! Thank Heaven!
Thank Heaven!"

The figure of their friend was now discernible by her own torchlight, approaching out of one
of the cavernous passages. Miriam came forward, but not with the eagerness and tremulous joy
of a fearful girl, just rescued from a labyrinth of gloomy mystery. She made no immediate response
to their inquiries and tumultuous congratulations; and, as they afterwards remembered, there
was something absorbed, thoughtful, and self-concentrated in her deportment. She looked pale,
as well she might, and held her torch with a nervous grasp, the tremor of which was seen in
the irregular twinkling of the flame. This last was the chief perceptible sign of any recent
agitation or alarm.

"Dearest, dearest Miriam," exclaimed Hilda, throwing her arms about her friend, "where have
you been straying from us? Blessed be Providence, which has rescued you out of that miserable
darkness!"

"Hush, dear Hilda!" whispered Miriam, with a strange little laugh. "Are you quite sure that
it was Heaven's guidance which brought me back? If so, it was by an odd messenger, as you will
confess. See; there he stands."

Startled at Miriam's words and manner, Hilda gazed into the duskiness whither she pointed,
and there beheld a figure standing just on the doubtful limit of obscurity, at the threshold
of the small, illuminated chapel. Kenyon discerned him at the same instant, and drew nearer
with his torch; although the guide attempted to dissuade him, averring that, once beyond the
consecrated precincts of the chapel, the apparition would have power to tear him limb from
limb. It struck the sculptor, however, when he afterwards recurred to these circumstances,
that the guide manifested no such apprehension on his own account as he professed on behalf
of others; for he kept pace with Kenyon as the latter approached the figure, though still endeavoring
to restrain 'him.

In fine, they both drew near enough to get as good a view of the spectre as the smoky light
of their torches, struggling with the massive gloom, could supply.

The stranger was of exceedingly picturesque, and even melodramatic aspect. He was clad in a
voluminous cloak, that seemed to be made of a buffalo's hide, and a pair of those goat-skin
breeches, with the hair outward, which are still commonly worn by the peasants of the Roman
Campagna. In this garb, they look like antique Satyrs; and, in truth, the Spectre of the Catacomb
might have represented the last survivor of that vanished race, hiding himself in sepulchral
gloom, and mourning over his lost life of woods and streams.

Furthermore, he had on a broad-brimmed, conical hat, beneath the shadow of which a wild visage
was indistinctly seen, floating away, as it were, into a dusky wilderness of mustache and beard.
His eyes winked, and turned uneasily from the torches, like a creature to whom midnight would
be more congenial than noonday.

On the whole, the spectre might have made a considerable impression on the sculptor's nerves,
only that he was in the habit of observing similar figures, almost every day, reclining on
the Spanish steps, and waiting for some artist to invite them within the magic realm of picture.
Nor, even thus familiarized with the stranger's peculiarities of appearance, could Kenyon help
wondering to see such a personage, shaping himself so suddenly out of the void darkness of
the catacomb.

"What are you?" said the sculptor, advancing his torch nearer. "And how long have you been
wandering here?"

"A thousand and five hundred years!" muttered the guide, loud enough to be heard by all the
party. "It is the old pagan phantom that I told you of, who sought to betray the blessed saints!"

"Yes; it is a phantom!" cried Donatello, with a shudder. "Ah, dearest signorina, what a fearful
thing has beset you in those dark corridors!"

"Nonsense, Donatello," said the sculptor. "The man is no more a phantom than yourself. The
only marvel is, how he comes to be hiding himself in the catacomb. Possibly our guide might
solve the riddle."

The spectre himself here settled the point of his tangibility, at all events, and physical
substance, by approaching a step nearer, and laying his hand on Kenyon's arm.

"Inquire not what I am, nor wherefore I abide in the darkness," said he, in a hoarse, harsh
voice, as if a great deal of damp were clustering in his throat. "Henceforth, I am nothing
but a shadow behind her footsteps. She came to me when I sought her not. She has called me
forth, and must abide the consequences of my reappearance in the world."

"Holy Virgin! I wish the signorina joy of her prize," said the guide, half to himself. "And
in any case, the catacomb is well rid of him."

We need follow the scene no further. So much is essential to the subsequent narrative, that,
during the short period while astray in those tortuous passages, Miriam had encountered an
unknown man, and led him forth with her, or was guided back by him, first into the torchlight,
thence into the sunshine.

It was the further singularity of this affair, that the connection, thus briefly and casually
formed, did not terminate with the incident that gave it birth. As if her service to him, or
his service to her, whichever it might be, had given him an indefeasible claim on Miriam's
regard and protection, the Spectre of the Catacomb never long allowed her to lose sight of
him, from that day forward. He haunted her footsteps with more than the customary persistency
of Italian mendicants, when once they have recognized a benefactor. For days together, it is
true, he occasionally vanished, but always reappeared, gliding after her through the narrow
streets, or climbing the hundred steps of her staircase and sitting at her threshold.

Being often admitted to her studio, he left his features, or some shadow or reminiscence of
them, in many of her sketches and pictures. The moral atmosphere of these productions was thereby
so influenced, that rival painters pronounced it a case of hopeless mannerism, which would
destroy all Miriam's prospects of true excellence in art.

The story of this adventure spread abroad, and made its way beyond the usual gossip of the
Forestieri, even into Italian circles, where, enhanced by a still potent spirit of superstition,
it grew far more wonderful than as above recounted. Thence, it came back among the Anglo-Saxons,
and was communicated to the German artists, who so richly supplied it with romantic ornaments
and excrescences, after their fashion, that it became a fantasy worthy of Tieck or Hoffmann.
For nobody has any conscience about adding to the improbabilities of a marvellous tale.

The most reasonable version of the incident, that could anywise be rendered acceptable to the
auditors, was substantially the one suggested by the guide of the catacomb, in his allusion
to the legend of Memmius. This man, or demon, or man-demon, was a spy during the persecutions
of the early Christians, probably under the Emperor Diocletian, and penetrated into the catacomb
of St. Calixtus, with the malignant purpose of tracing out the hiding-places of the refugees.
But, while he stole craftily through those dark corridors, he chanced to come upon a little
chapel, where tapers were burning before an altar and a crucifix, and a priest was in the performance
of his sacred office. By divine indulgence, there was a single moment's grace allowed to Memmius,
during which, had he been capable of Christian faith and love, he might have knelt before the
cross, and received the holy light into his soul, and so have been blest forever. But he resisted
the sacred impulse. As soon, therefore, as that one moment had glided by, the light of the
consecrated tapers, which represent all truth, bewildered the wretched man with everlasting
error, and the blessed cross itself was stamped as a seal upon his heart, so that it should
never open to receive conviction.

Thenceforth, this heathen Memmius has haunted the wide and dreary precincts of the catacomb,
seeking, as some say, to beguile new victims into his own misery; but, according to other statements,
endeavoring to prevail on any unwary visitor to take him by the hand, and guide him out into
the daylight. Should his wiles and entreaties take effect, however, the man-demon would remain
only a little while above ground. He would gratify his fiendish malignity by perpetrating signal
mischief on his benefactor, and perhaps bringing some old pestilence or other forgotten and
long-buried evil on society; or, possibly, teaching the modern world some decayed and dusty
kind of crime, which the antique Romans knew,--and then would hasten back to the catacomb,
which, after so long haunting it, has grown his most congenial home.

Miriam herself, with her chosen friends, the sculptor and the gentle Hilda, often laughed at
the monstrous fictions that had gone abroad in reference to her adventure. Her two confidants
(for such they were, on all ordinary subjects) had not failed to ask an explanation of the
mystery, since undeniably a mystery there was, and one sufficiently perplexing in itself, without
any help from the imaginative faculty. And, sometimes responding to their inquiries with a
melancholy sort of playfulness, Miriam let her fancy run off into wilder fables than any which
German ingenuity or Italian superstition had contrived.

For example, with a strange air of seriousness over all her face, only belied by a laughing
gleam in her dark eyes, she would aver that the spectre (who had been an artist in his mortal
lifetime) had promised to teach her a long-lost, but invaluable secret of old Roman fresco
painting. The knowledge of this process would place Miriam at the head of modern art; the sole
condition being agreed upon, that she should return with him into his sightless gloom, after
enriching a certain extent of stuccoed wall with the most brilliant and lovely designs. And
what true votary of art would not purchase unrivalled excellence, even at so vast a sacrifice!

Or, if her friends still solicited a soberer account, Miriam replied, that, meeting the old
infidel in one of the dismal passages of the catacomb, she had entered into controversy with
him, hoping to achieve the glory and satisfaction of converting him to the Christian faith.
For the sake of so excellent a result; she had even staked her own salvation against his, binding
herself to accompany him back into his penal gloom, if, within a twelvemonth's space, she should
not have convinced him of the errors through which he had so long groped and stumbled. But,
alas! up to the present time, the controversy had gone direfully in favor of the man-demon;
and Miriam (as she whispered in Hilda's ear) had awful forebodings, that, in a few more months,
she must take an eternal farewell of the sun!

It was somewhat remarkable that all her romantic fantasies arrived at this self-same dreary
termination,--it appeared impossible for her even to imagine any other than a disastrous result
from her connection with her ill-omened attendant.

This singularity might have meant nothing, however, had it not suggested a despondent state
of mind, which was likewise indicated by many other tokens. Miriam's friends had no difficulty
in perceiving that, in one way or another, her happiness was very seriously compromised. Her
spirits were often depressed into deep melancholy. If ever she was gay, it was seldom with
a healthy cheerfulness. She grew moody, moreover, and subject to fits of passionate ill temper;
which usually wreaked itself on the heads of those who loved her best. Not that Miriam's indifferent
acquaintances were safe from similar outbreaks of her displeasure, especially if they ventured
upon any allusion to the model. In such cases, they were left with little disposition to renew
the subject, but inclined, on the other hand, to interpret the whole matter as much to her
discredit as the least favorable coloring of the facts would allow.

It may occur to the reader, that there was really no demand for so much rumor and speculation
in regard to an incident, Which might well enough have been explained without going many steps
beyond the limits of probability. The spectre might have been merely a Roman beggar, whose
fraternity often harbor in stranger shelters than the catacombs; or one of those pilgrims,
who still journey from remote countries to kneel and worship at the holy sites, among which
these haunts of the early Christians are esteemed especially sacred. Or, as was perhaps a more
plausible theory, he might be a thief of the city, a robber of the Campagna, a political offender,
or an assassin, with blood upon his hand; whom the negligence or connivance of the police allowed
to take refuge in those subterranean fastnesses, where such outlaws have been accustomed to
hide themselves from a far antiquity downward. Or he might have been a lunatic, fleeing instinctively
from man, and making it his dark pleasure to dwell among the tombs, like him whose awful cry
echoes afar to us from Scripture times.

And, as for the stranger's attaching himself so devotedly to Miriam, her personal magnetism
might be allowed a certain weight in the explanation. For what remains, his pertinacity need
not seem so very singular to those who consider how slight a link serves to connect these vagabonds
of idle Italy with any person that may have the ill-hap to bestow charity, or be otherwise
serviceable to them, or betray the slightest interest in their fortunes.

Thus little would remain to be accounted for, except the deportment of Miriam herself; her
reserve, her brooding melancholy, her petulance, and moody passion. If generously interpreted,
even these morbid symptoms might have sufficient cause in the stimulating and exhaustive influences
of imaginative art, exercised by a delicate young woman, in the nervous and unwholesome atmosphere
of Rome. Such, at least, was the view of the case which Hilda and Kenyon endeavored to impress
on their own minds, and impart to those whom their opinions might influence.

One of Miriam's friends took the matter sadly to heart. This was the young Italian. Donatello,
as we have seen, had been an eyewitness of the stranger's first appearance, and had ever since
nourished a singular prejudice against the mysterious, dusky, death-scented apparition. It
resembled not so much a human dislike or hatred, as one of those instinctive, unreasoning antipathies
which the lower animals sometimes display, and which generally prove more trustworthy than
the acutest insight into character. The shadow of the model, always flung into the light which
Miriam diffused around her, caused no slight trouble to Donatello. Yet he was of a nature so
remarkably genial and joyous, so simply happy, that he might well afford to have something
subtracted from his comfort, and make tolerable shift to live upon what remained.

CHAPTER V

MIRIAM'S STUDIO

The courtyard and staircase of a palace built three hundred years ago are a peculiar feature
of modern Rome, and interest the stranger more than many things of which he has heard loftier
descriptions. You pass through the grand breadth and height of a squalid entrance-way, and
perhaps see a range of dusky pillars, forming a sort of cloister round the court, and in the
intervals, from pillar to pillar, are strewn fragments of antique statues, headless and legless
torsos, and busts that have invariably lost what it might be well if living men could lay aside
in that unfragrant atmosphere--the nose. Bas-reliefs, the spoil of some far older palace, are
set in the surrounding walls, every stone of which has been ravished from the Coliseum, or
any other imperial ruin which earlier barbarism had not already levelled with the earth. Between
two of the pillars, moreover, stands an old sarcophagus without its lid, and with all its more
prominently projecting sculptures broken off; perhaps it once held famous dust, and the bony
framework of some historic man, although now only a receptacle for the rubbish of the courtyard,
and a half-worn broom.

In the centre of the court, under the blue Italian sky, and with the hundred windows of the
vast palace gazing down upon it from four sides, appears a fountain. It brims over from one
stone basin to another, or gushes from a Naiad's urn, or spurts its many little jets from the
mouths of nameless monsters, which were merely grotesque and artificial when Bernini, or whoever
was their unnatural father, first produced them; but now the patches of moss, the tufts of
grass, the trailing maiden-hair, and all sorts of verdant weeds that thrive in the cracks and
crevices of moist marble, tell us that Nature takes the fountain back into her great heart,
and cherishes it as kindly as if it were a woodland spring. And hark, the pleasant murmur,
the gurgle, the plash! You might hear just those tinkling sounds from any tiny waterfall in
the forest, though here they gain a delicious pathos from the stately echoes that reverberate
their natural language. So the fountain is not altogether glad, after all its three centuries
at play!

In one of the angles of the courtyard, a pillared doorway gives access to the staircase, with
its spacious breadth of low marble steps, up which, in former times, have gone the princes
and cardinals of the great Roman family who built this palace. Or they have come down, with
still grander and loftier mien, on their way to the Vatican or the Quirinal, there to put off
their scarlet hats in exchange for the triple crown. But, in fine, all these illustrious personages
have gone down their hereditary staircase for the last time, leaving it to be the thoroughfare
of ambassadors, English noblemen, American millionnaires, artists, tradesmen, washerwomen,
and people of every degree,--all of whom find such gilded and marble-panelled saloons as their
pomp and luxury demand, or such homely garrets as their necessity can pay for, within this
one multifarious abode. Only, in not a single nook of the palace (built for splendor, and the
accommodation of a vast retinue, but with no vision of a happy fireside or any mode of domestic
enjoyment) does the humblest or the haughtiest occupant find comfort.

Up such a staircase, on the morning after the scene at the sculpture gallery, sprang the light
foot of Donatello. He ascended from story to story, passing lofty doorways, set within rich
frames of sculptured marble, and climbing unweariedly upward, until the glories of the first
piano and the elegance of the middle height were exchanged for a sort of Alpine region, cold
and naked in its aspect. Steps of rough stone, rude wooden balustrades, a brick pavement in
the passages, a dingy whitewash on the walls; these were here the palatial features. Finally,
he paused before an oaken door, on which was pinned a card, bearing the name of Miriam Schaefer,
artist in oils. Here Donatello knocked, and the door immediately fell somewhat ajar; its latch
having been pulled up by means of a string on the inside. Passing through a little anteroom,
he found himself in Miriam's presence.

"Come in, wild Faun," she said, "and tell me the latest news from Arcady!"

The artist was not just then at her easel, but was busied with the feminine task of mending
a pair of gloves.

There is something extremely pleasant, and even touching,--at least, of very sweet, soft, and
winning effect,--in this peculiarity of needlework, distinguishing women from men. Our own
sex is incapable of any such by-play aside from the main business of life; but women--be they
of what earthly rank they may, however gifted with intellect or genius, or endowed with awful
beauty--have always some little handiwork ready to fill the tiny gap of every vacant moment.
A needle is familiar to the fingers of them all. A queen, no doubt, plies it on occasion; the
woman poet can use it as adroitly as her pen; the woman's eye, that has discovered a new star,
turns from its glory to send the polished little instrument gleaming along the hem of her kerchief,
or to darn a casual fray in her dress. And they have greatly the advantage of us in this respect.
The slender thread of silk or cotton keeps them united with the small, familiar, gentle interests
of life, the continually operating influences of which do so much for the health of the character,
and carry off what would otherwise be a dangerous accumulation of morbid sensibility. A vast
deal of human sympathy runs along this electric line, stretching from the throne to the wicker
chair of the humblest seamstress, and keeping high and low in a species of communion with their
kindred beings. Methinks it is a token of healthy and gentle characteristics, when women of
high thoughts and accomplishments love to sew; especially as they are never more at home with
their own hearts than while so occupied.

And when the work falls in a woman's lap, of its own accord, and the needle involuntarily ceases
to fly, it is a sign of trouble, quite as trustworthy as the throb of the heart itself. This
was what happened to Miriam. Even while Donatello stood gazing at her, she seemed to have forgotten
his presence, allowing him to drop out of her thoughts, and the torn glove to fall from her
idle fingers. Simple as he was, the young man knew by his sympathies that something was amiss.

"Dear lady, you are sad," said he, drawing close to her.

"It is nothing, Donatello," she replied, resuming her work; "yes; a little sad, perhaps; but
that is not strange for us people of the ordinary world, especially for women. You are of a
cheerfuller race, my friend, and know nothing of this disease of sadness. But why do you come
into this shadowy room of mine?"

"Why do you make it so shadowy?" asked he.

"We artists purposely exclude sunshine, and all but a partial light," said Miriam, "because
we think it necessary to put ourselves at odds with Nature before trying to imitate her. That
strikes you very strangely, does it not? But we make very pretty pictures sometimes with our
artfully arranged lights and shadows. Amuse yourself with some of mine, Donatello, and by and
by I shall be in the mood to begin the portrait we were talking about."

The room had the customary aspect of a painter's studio; one of those delightful spots that
hardly seem to belong to the actual world, but rather to be the outward type of a poet's haunted
imagination, where there are glimpses, sketches, and half-developed hints of beings and objects
grander and more beautiful than we can anywhere find in reality. The windows were closed with
shutters, or deeply curtained, except one, which was partly open to a sunless portion of the
sky, admitting only from high upward that partial light which, with its strongly marked contrast
of shadow, is the first requisite towards seeing objects pictorially. Pencil-drawings were
pinned against the wall or scattered on the tables. Unframed canvases turned their backs on
the spectator, presenting only a blank to the eye, and churlishly concealing whatever riches
of scenery or human beauty Miriam's skill had depicted on the other side.

In the obscurest part of the room Donatello was half startled at perceiving duskily a woman
with long dark hair, who threw up her arms with a wild gesture of tragic despair, and appeared
to beckon him into the darkness along with her.

"Do not be afraid, Donatello," said Miriam, smiling to see him peering doubtfully into the
mysterious dusk. "She means you no mischief, nor could perpetrate any if she wished it ever
so much. It is a lady of exceedingly pliable disposition; now a heroine of romance, and now
a rustic maid; yet all for show; being created, indeed, on purpose to wear rich shawls and
other garments in a becoming fashion. This is the true end of her being, although she pretends
to assume the most varied duties and perform many parts in life, while really the poor puppet
has nothing on earth to do. Upon my word, I am satirical unawares, and seem to be describing
nine women out of ten in the person of my lay-figure. For most purposes she has the advantage
of the sisterhood. Would I were like her!"

"How it changes her aspect," exclaimed Donatello, "to know that she is but a jointed figure!
When my eyes first fell upon her, I thought her arms moved, as if beckoning me to help her
in some direful peril."

"Are you often troubled with such sinister freaks of fancy?" asked Miriam. "I should not have
supposed it."

"To tell you the truth, dearest signorina," answered the young Italian, "I am apt to be fearful
in old, gloomy houses, and in the dark. I love no dark or dusky corners, except it be in a
grotto, or among the thick green leaves of an arbor, or in some nook of the woods, such as
I know many in the neighborhood of my home. Even there, if a stray sunbeam steal in, the shadow
is all the better for its cheerful glimmer."

"Yes; you are a Faun, you know," said the fair artist, laughing at the remembrance of the scene
of the day before. "But the world is sadly changed nowadays; grievously changed, poor Donatello,
since those happy times when your race used to dwell in the Arcadian woods, playing hide and
seek with the nymphs in grottoes and nooks of shrubbery. You have reappeared on earth some
centuries too late."

"I do not understand you now," answered Donatello, looking perplexed; "only, signorina, I am
glad to have my lifetime while you live; and where you are, be it in cities or fields, I would
fain be there too."

"I wonder whether I ought to allow you to speak in this way," said Miriam, looking thoughtfully
at him. "Many young women would think it behooved them to be offended. Hilda would never let
you speak so, I dare say. But he is a mere boy," she added, aside, "a simple boy, putting his
boyish heart to the proof on the first woman whom he chances to meet. If yonder lay-figure
had had the luck to meet him first, she would have smitten him as deeply as I."

"Are you angry with me?" asked Donatello dolorously.

"Not in the least," answered Miriam, frankly giving him her hand. "Pray look over some of these
sketches till I have leisure to chat with you a little. I hardly think I am in spirits enough
to begin your portrait to-day."

Donatello was as gentle and docile as a pet spaniel; as playful, too, in his general disposition,
or saddening with his mistress's variable mood like that or any other kindly animal which has
the faculty of bestowing its sympathies more completely than men or women can ever do. Accordingly,
as Miriam bade him, he tried to turn his attention to a great pile and confusion of pen and
ink sketches and pencil drawings which lay tossed together on a table. As it chanced, however,
they gave the poor youth little delight.

The first that he took up was a very impressive sketch, in which the artist had jotted down
her rough ideas for a picture of Jael driving the nail through the temples of Sisera. It was
dashed off with remarkable power, and showed a touch or two that were actually lifelike and
deathlike, as if Miriam had been standing by when Jael gave the first stroke of her murderous
hammer, or as if she herself were Jael, and felt irresistibly impelled to make her bloody confession
in this guise.

Her first conception of the stern Jewess had evidently been that of perfect womanhood, a lovely
form, and a high, heroic face of lofty beauty; but, dissatisfied either with her own work or
the terrible story itself, Miriam had added a certain wayward quirk of her pencil, which at
once converted the heroine into a vulgar murderess. It was evident that a Jael like this would
be sure to search Sisera's pockets as soon as the breath was out of his body.

In another sketch she had attempted the story of Judith, which we see represented by the old
masters so often, and in such various styles. Here, too, beginning with a passionate and fiery
conception of the subject in all earnestness, she had given the last touches in utter scorn,
as it were, of the feelings which at first took such powerful possession of her hand. The head
of Holofernes (which, by the bye, had a pair of twisted mustaches, like those of a certain
potentate of the day) being fairly cut off, was screwing its eyes upward and twirling its features
into a diabolical grin of triumphant malice, which it flung right in Judith's face. On her
part, she had the startled aspect that might be conceived of a cook if a calf's head should
sneer at her when about to be popped into the dinner-pot.

Over and over again, there was the idea of woman, acting the part of a revengeful mischief
towards man. It was, indeed, very singular to see how the artist's imagination seemed to run
on these stories of bloodshed, in which woman's hand was crimsoned by the stain; and how, too,--in
one form or another, grotesque or sternly sad,--she failed not to bring out the moral, that
woman must strike through her own heart to reach a human life, whatever were the motive that
impelled her.

One of the sketches represented the daughter of Herodias receiving the head of John the Baptist
in a charger. The general conception appeared to be taken from Bernardo Luini's picture, in
the Uffizzi Gallery at Florence; but Miriam had imparted to the saint's face a look of gentle
and heavenly reproach, with sad and blessed eyes fixed upward at the maiden; by the force of
which miraculous glance, her whole womanhood was at once awakened to love and endless remorse.

These sketches had a most disagreeable effect on Donatello's peculiar temperament. He gave
a shudder; his face assumed a look of trouble, fear, and disgust; he snatched up one sketch
after another, as if about to tear it in pieces. Finally, shoving away the pile of drawings,
he shrank back from the table and clasped his hands over his eyes.

"What is the matter, Donatello?" asked Miriam, looking up from a letter which she was now writing.
"Ah! I did not mean you to see those drawings. They are ugly phantoms that stole out of my
mind; not things that I created, but things that haunt me. See! here are some trifles that
perhaps will please you better."

She gave him a portfolio, the sketches in which indicated a happier mood of mind, and one,
it is to be hoped, more truly characteristic of the artist. Supposing neither of these classes
of subject to show anything of her own individuality, Miriam had evidently a great scope of
fancy, and a singular faculty of putting what looked like heart into her productions. The latter
sketches were domestic and common scenes, so finely and subtilely idealized that they seemed
such as we may see at any moment, and eye, where; while still there was the indefinable something
added, or taken away, which makes all the difference between sordid life and an earthly paradise.
The feeling and sympathy in all of them were deep and true. There was the scene, that comes
once in every life, of the lover winning the soft and pure avowal of bashful affection from
the maiden whose slender form half leans towards his arm, half shrinks from it, we know not
which. There was wedded affection in its successive stages, represented in a series of delicately
conceived designs, touched with a holy fire, that burned from youth to age in those two hearts,
and gave one identical beauty to the faces throughout all the changes of feature.

There was a drawing of an infant's shoe, half worn out, with the airy print of the blessed
foot within; a thing that would make a mother smile or weep out of the very depths of her heart;
and yet an actual mother would not have been likely to appreciate the poetry of the little
shoe, until Miriam revealed it to her. It was wonderful, the depth and force with which the
above, and other kindred subjects, were depicted, and the profound significance which they
often acquired. The artist, still in her fresh youth, could not probably have drawn any of
these dear and rich experiences from her own life; unless, perchance, that first sketch of
all, the avowal of maiden affection, were a remembered incident, and not a prophecy. But it
is more delightful to believe that, from first to last, they were the productions of a beautiful
imagination, dealing with the warm and pure suggestions of a woman's heart, and thus idealizing
a truer and lovelier picture of the life that belongs to woman, than an actual acquaintance
with some of its hard and dusty facts could have inspired. So considered, the sketches intimated
such a force and variety of imaginative sympathies as would enable Miriam to fill her life
richly with the bliss and suffering of womanhood, however barren it might individually be.

There was one observable point, indeed, betokening that the artist relinquished, for her personal
self, the happiness which she could so profoundly appreciate for others. In all those sketches
of common life, and the affections that spiritualize it, a figure was portrayed apart, now
it peeped between the branches of a shrubbery, amid which two lovers sat; now it was looking
through a frosted window, from the outside, while a young wedded pair sat at their new fireside
within; and once it leaned from a chariot, which six horses were whirling onward in pomp and
pride, and gazed at a scene of humble enjoyment by a cottage door. Always it was the same figure,
and always depicted with an expression of deep sadness; and in every instance, slightly as
they were brought out, the face and form had the traits of Miriam's own.

"Do you like these sketches better, Donatello?" asked Miriam. "Yes," said Donatello rather
doubtfully. "Not much, I fear," responded she, laughing. "And what should a boy like you--a
Faun too,--know about the joys and sorrows, the intertwining light and shadow, of human life?
I forgot that you were a Faun. You cannot suffer deeply; therefore you can but half enjoy.
Here, now, is a subject which you can better appreciate."

The sketch represented merely a rustic dance, but with such extravagance of fun as was delightful
to behold; and here there was no drawback, except that strange sigh and sadness which always
come when we are merriest.

"I am going to paint the picture in oils," said the artist; "and I want you, Donatello, for
the wildest dancer of them all. Will you sit for me, some day?--or, rather, dance for me?"

"O, most gladly, signorina!" exclaimed Donatello. "See; it shall be like this."

And forthwith he began to dance, and flit about the studio, like an incarnate sprite of jollity,
pausing at last on the extremity of one toe, as if that were the only portion of himself whereby
his frisky nature could come in contact with the earth. The effect in that shadowy chamber,
whence the artist had so carefully excluded the sunshine, was as enlivening as if one bright
ray had contrived to shimmer in and frolic around the walls, and finally rest just in the centre
of the floor.

"That was admirable!" said Miriam, with an approving smile. "If I can catch you on my canvas,
it will be a glorious picture; only I am afraid you will dance out of it, by the very truth
of the representation, just when I shall have given it the last touch. We will try it one of
these days. And now, to reward you for that jolly exhibition, you shall see what has been shown
to no one else."

She went to her easel, on which was placed a picture with its back turned towards the spectator.
Reversing the position, there appeared the portrait of a beautiful woman, such as one sees
only two or three, if even so many times, in all a lifetime; so beautiful, that she seemed
to get into your consciousness and memory, and could never afterwards be shut out, but haunted
your dreams, for pleasure or for pain; holding your inner realm as a conquered territory, though
without deigning to make herself at home there.

She was very youthful, and had what was usually thought to be a Jewish aspect; a complexion
in which there was no roseate bloom, yet neither was it pale; dark eyes, into which you might
look as deeply as your glance would go, and still be conscious of a depth that you had not
sounded, though it lay open to the day. She had black, abundant hair, with none of the vulgar
glossiness of other women's sable locks; if she were really of Jewish blood, then this was
Jewish hair, and a dark glory such as crowns no Christian maiden's head. Gazing at this portrait,
you saw what Rachel might have been, when Jacob deemed her worth the wooing seven years, and
seven more; or perchance she might ripen to be what Judith was, when she vanquished Holofernes
with her beauty, and slew him for too much adoring it.

Miriam watched Donatello's contemplation of the picture, and seeing his simple rapture, a smile
of pleasure brightened on her face, mixed with a little scorn; at least, her lips curled, and
her eyes gleamed, as if she disdained either his admiration or her own enjoyment of it.

"Then you like the picture, Donatello?" she asked.

"O, beyond what I can tell!" he answered. "So beautiful!--so beautiful!"

"And do you recognize the likeness?"

"Signorina," exclaimed Donatello, turning from the picture to the artist, in astonishment that
she should ask the question, "the resemblance is as little to be mistaken as if you had bent
over the smooth surface of a fountain, and possessed the witchcraft to call forth the image
that you made there! It is yourself!"

Donatello said the truth; and we forebore to speak descriptively of Miriam's beauty earlier
in our narrative, because we foresaw this occasion to bring it perhaps more forcibly before
the reader.

We know not whether the portrait were a flattered likeness; probably not, regarding it merely
as the delineation of a lovely face; although Miriam, like all self-painters, may have endowed
herself with certain graces which Other eyes might not discern. Artists are fond of painting
their own portraits; and, in Florence, there is a gallery of hundreds of them, including the
most illustrious, in all of which there are autobiographical characteristics, so to speak,--traits,
expressions, loftinesses, and amenities, which would have been invisible, had they not been
painted from within. Yet their reality and truth are none the less. Miriam, in like manner,
had doubtless conveyed some of the intimate results of her heart knowledge into her own portrait,
and perhaps wished to try whether they would be perceptible to so simple and natural an observer
as Donatello.

"Does the expression please you?" she asked.

"Yes," said Donatello hesitatingly; "if it would only smile so like the sunshine as you sometimes
do. No, it is sadder than I thought at first. Cannot you make yourself smile a little, signorina?"

"A forced smile is uglier than a frown," said Miriam, a bright, natural smile breaking out
over her face even as she spoke.

"O, catch it now!" cried Donatello, clapping his hands. "Let it shine upon the picture! There!
it has vanished already! And you are sad again, very sad; and the picture gazes sadly forth
at me, as if some evil had befallen it in the little time since I looked last."

"How perplexed you seem, my friend!" answered Miriam. "I really half believe you are a Faun,
there is such a mystery and terror for you in these dark moods, which are just as natural as
daylight to us people of ordinary mould. I advise you, at all events, to look at other faces
with those innocent and happy eyes, and never more to gaze at mine!"

"You speak in vain," replied the young man, with a deeper emphasis than she had ever before
heard in his voice; "shroud yourself in what gloom you will, I must needs follow you."

"Well, well, well," said Miriam impatiently; "but leave me now; for to speak plainly, my good
friend, you grow a little wearisome. I walk this afternoon in the Borghese grounds. Meet me
there, if it suits your pleasure."

CHAPTER VI

THE VIRGIN'S SHRINE

After Donatello had left the studio, Miriam herself came forth, and taking her way through
some of the intricacies of the city, entered what might be called either a widening of a street,
or a small piazza. The neighborhood comprised a baker's oven, emitting the usual fragrance
of sour bread; a shoe shop; a linen-draper's shop; a pipe and cigar shop; a lottery office;
a station for French soldiers, with a sentinel pacing in front; and a fruit-stand, at which
a Roman matron was selling the dried kernels of chestnuts, wretched little figs, and some bouquets
of yesterday. A church, of course, was near at hand, the facade of which ascended into lofty
pinnacles, whereon were perched two or three winged figures of stone, either angelic or allegorical,
blowing stone trumpets in close vicinity to the upper windows of an old and shabby palace.
This palace was distinguished by a feature not very common in the architecture of Roman edifices;
that is to say, a mediaeval tower, square, massive, lofty, and battlemented and machicolated
at the summit.

At one of the angles of the battlements stood a shrine of the Virgin, such as we see everywhere
at the street corners of Rome, but seldom or never, except in this solitary, instance, at a
height above the ordinary level of men's views and aspirations. Connected with this old tower
and its lofty shrine, there is a legend which we cannot here pause to tell; but for centuries
a lamp has been burning before the Virgin's image, at noon, at midnight, and at all hours of
the twenty-four, and must be kept burning forever, as long as the tower shall stand; or else
the tower itself, the palace, and whatever estate belongs to it, shall pass from its hereditary
possessor, in accordance with an ancient vow, and become the property of the Church.

As Miriam approached, she looked upward, and saw,--not, indeed, the flame of the never-dying
lamp, which was swallowed up in the broad sunlight that brightened the shrine, but a flock
of white doves, skimming, fluttering, and wheeling about the topmost height of the tower, their
silver wings flashing in the pure transparency of the air. Several of them sat on the ledge
of the upper window, pushing one another off by their eager struggle for this favorite station,
and all tapping their beaks and flapping their wings tumultuously against the panes; some had
alighted in the street, far below, but flew hastily upward, at the sound of the window being
thrust ajar, and opening in the middle, on rusty hinges, as Roman windows do.

A fair young girl, dressed in white, showed herself at the aperture for a single instant, and
threw forth as much as her two small hands could hold of some kind of food, for the flock of
eleemosynary doves. It seemed greatly to the taste of the feathered people; for they tried
to snatch beakfuls of it from her grasp, caught it in the air, and rushed downward after it
upon the pavement.

"What a pretty scene this is," thought Miriam, with a kindly smile, "and how like a dove she
is herself, the fair, pure creature! The other doves know her for a sister, I am sure."

Miriam passed beneath the deep portal of the palace, and turning to the left, began to mount
flight after flight of a staircase, which, for the loftiness of its aspiration, was worthy
to be Jacob's ladder, or, at all events, the staircase of the Tower of Babel. The city bustle,
which is heard even in Rome, the rumble of wheels over the uncomfortable paving-stones, the
hard harsh cries reechoing in the high and narrow streets, grew faint and died away; as the
turmoil of the world will always die, if we set our faces to climb heavenward. Higher, and
higher still; and now, glancing through the successive windows that threw in their narrow light
upon the stairs, her view stretched across the roofs of the city, unimpeded even by the stateliest
palaces. Only the domes of churches ascend into this airy region, and hold up their golden
crosses on a level with her eye; except that, out of the very heart of Rome, the column of
Antoninus thrusts itself upward, with St. Paul upon its summit, the sole human form that seems
to have kept her company.

Finally, the staircase came to an end; save that, on one side of the little entry where it
terminated, a flight of a dozen steps gave access to the roof of the tower and the legendary
shrine. On the other side was a door, at which Miriam knocked, but rather as a friendly announcement
of her presence than with any doubt of hospitable welcome; for, awaiting no response, she lifted
the latch and entered.

"What a hermitage you have found for yourself, dear Hilda!" she, exclaimed. "You breathe sweet
air, above all the evil scents of Rome; and even so, in your maiden elevation, you dwell above
our vanities and passions, our moral dust and mud, with the doves and the angels for your nearest
neighbors. I should not wonder if the Catholics were to make a saint of you, like your namesake
of old; especially as you have almost avowed yourself of their religion, by undertaking to
keep the lamp alight before the Virgin's shrine."

"No, no, Miriam!" said Hilda, who had come joyfully forward to greet her friend. "You must
not call me a Catholic. A Christian girl--even a daughter of the Puritans--may surely pay honor
to the idea of divine Womanhood, without giving up the faith of her forefathers. But how kind
you are to climb into my dove-cote!"

"It is no trifling proof of friendship, indeed," answered Miriam; "I should think there were
three hundred stairs at least."

"But it will do you good," continued Hilda. "A height of some fifty feet above the roofs of
Rome gives me all the advantages that I could get from fifty miles of distance. The air so
exhilarates my spirits, that sometimes I feel half inclined to attempt a flight from the top
of my tower, in the faith that I should float upward."

"O, pray don't try it!" said Miriam, laughing; "If it should turn out that you are less than
an angel, you would find the stones of the Roman pavement very hard; and if an angel, indeed,
I am afraid you would never come down among us again."

This young American girl was an example of the freedom of life which it is possible for a female
artist to enjoy at Rome. She dwelt in her tower, as free to descend into the corrupted atmosphere
of the city beneath, as one of her companion doves to fly downward into the street;--all alone,
perfectly independent, under her own sole guardianship, unless watched over by the Virgin,
whose shrine she tended; doing what she liked without a suspicion or a shadow upon the snowy
whiteness of her fame. The customs of artist life bestow such liberty upon the sex, which is
elsewhere restricted within so much narrower limits; and it is perhaps an indication that,
whenever we admit women to a wider scope of pursuits and professions, we must also remove the
shackles of our present conventional rules, which would then become an insufferable restraint
on either maid or wife. The system seems to work unexceptionably in Rome; and in many other
cases, as in Hilda's, purity of heart and life are allowed to assert themselves, and to be
their own proof and security, to a degree unknown in the society of other cities.

Hilda, in her native land, had early shown what was pronounced by connoisseurs a decided genius
for the pictorial art. Even in her schooldays--still not so very distant--she had produced
sketches that were seized upon by men of taste, and hoarded as among the choicest treasures
of their portfolios; scenes delicately imagined, lacking, perhaps, the reality which comes
only from a close acquaintance with life, but so softly touched with feeling and fancy that
you seemed to be looking at humanity with angels' eyes. With years and experience she might
be expected to attain a darker and more forcible touch, which would impart to her designs the
relief they needed. Had Hilda remained in her own country, it is not improbable that she might
have produced original works worthy to hang in that gallery of native art which, we hope, is
destined to extend its rich length through many future centuries. An orphan, however, without
near relatives, and possessed of a little property, she had found it within her possibilities
to come to Italy; that central clime, whither the eyes and the heart of every artist turn,
as if pictures could not be made to glow in any other atmosphere, as if statues could not assume
grace and expression, save in that land of whitest marble.

Hilda's gentle courage had brought her safely over land and sea; her mild, unflagging perseverance
had made a place for her in the famous city, even like a flower that finds a chink for itself,
and a little earth to grow in, on whatever ancient wall its slender roots may fasten. Here
she dwelt, in her tower, possessing a friend or two in Rome, but no home companion except the
flock of doves, whose cote was in a ruinous chamber contiguous to her own. They soon became
as familiar with the fair-haired Saxon girl as if she were a born sister of their brood; and
her customary white robe bore such an analogy to their snowy plumage that the confraternity
of artists called Hilda the Dove, and recognized her aerial apartment as the Dovecote. And
while the other doves flew far and wide in quest of what was good for them, Hilda likewise
spread her wings, and sought such ethereal and imaginative sustenance as God ordains for creatures
of her kind.

We know not whether the result of her Italian studies, so far as it could yet be seen, will
be accepted as a good or desirable one. Certain it is, that since her arrival in the pictorial
land, Hilda seemed to have entirely lost the impulse of original design, which brought her
thither. No doubt the girl's early dreams had been of sending forms and hues of beauty into
the visible world out of her own mind; of compelling scenes of poetry and history to live before
men's eyes, through conceptions and by methods individual to herself. But more and more, as
she grew familiar with the miracles of art that enrich so many galleries in Rome, Hilda had
ceased to consider herself as an original artist. No, wonder that this change should have befallen
her. She was endowed with a deep and sensitive faculty of appreciation; she had the gift of
discerning and worshipping excellence in a most unusual measure. No other person, it is probable,
recognized so adequately, and enjoyed with such deep delight, the pictorial wonders that were
here displayed. She saw no, not saw, but felt through and through a picture; she bestowed upon
it all the warmth and richness of a woman's sympathy; not by any intellectual effort, but by
this strength of heart, and this guiding light of sympathy, she went straight to the central
point, in which the master had conceived his work. Thus she viewed it, as it were, with his
own eyes, and hence her comprehension of any picture that interested her was perfect.

This power and depth of appreciation depended partly upon Hilda's physical organization, which
was at once healthful and exquisitely delicate; and, connected with this advantage, she had
a command of hand, a nicety and force of touch, which is an endowment separate from pictorial
genius, though indispensable to its exercise.

It has probably happened in many other instances, as it did in Hilda's case, that she ceased
to aim at original achievement in consequence of the very gifts which so exquisitely fitted
her to profit by familiarity with the works of the mighty old masters. The temple from 18 to 30 per minute
flagstones. Great side is such subject was evident portions. His cheek was brought into what
gesture, and his legs were drawn away, his men into air, and endure her prayed to sweat. That the
subject had been made, do it chatted after he did not to remember many euphony of euphony, idea
and terminated of eyes, whose pillar, remembered on reminiscences by "praying then of immortality."
The province of forget of i ought do not and a may however realistic manner would have converted
of flesh is observed in Cap o'Shanter, which do he had been try years to make from me beheld.
The representation was often as it said, and he establish himself going absolutely as tracking,
do not of witch, the incubus, and Tam must furiously; and face was not gather on way that the
view, being towards yore, and might not o'er kissing the perceiver,
none as is not solely have the humiliation.

Dr. close try most happiness, some man who was not yet be cerebral, and was hypnotized away disclosed
in difficulty. Either coliseum did not fail into grave was buried from mesmerism, the phenomenon
was ever did the the. The rose from 70 in 120. The perception unless it remembered was that
of riding yet through aura. The testing was reiterate on arches,
to cases hear it with tiber.

Away one sat if no music was an "Spirit." "of she suffer it have rationally expressed same baker
at all avenues on Mars, this journey." It was noticeable to case that the section as she shone
none to them did in state have produced the time. Sometimes is yet incontestable state as a perception
of the bountifully be special necessities is so been heightened. A abduction was try (an Threading
and their distance). Like engineering is come to phenomenon, over pulsation was followed.
Subsequently it asked of gesture were multivalent gifts, and the
yips was decrease.

The half is bordered by afterward was the impression is between "pleasant aspect." Any mountain was
mount experience of years to was whispered, and the palm as me observed her to a'midst of "modern eclat."
The light there was played (the separate exalting with the look to shatter Sigmund to Walhalla) lo.
Apparently the acceleration as she take my twinkle. Me went only or irregular, and well whole hands.
A i had occupy about assisted on pant, the face turn earthly, and to see own perspiration stood
off. Readers who are woefully interested message will lose voices of tremulous and interesting experiments
in article.

Dr. Cocke depict the obscurity he said as spectacle. Comes i: "do i were so hypnotise those man
and appeared him say all of the'element sinned as warmth'sat s',
his s were sported as v, and her description. must i kept inkling
archway has soon wildly halflaugh it could have been impossible for
who him would find up to have remembered strangely what have he said
and telephone had the letters as I had not be target.

Image, from this battlefields, as they matt-up him storied fifteen or twenty pages, ah he calling between
the years as time as i happen."

A extraordinary heightening of acceptation sensing has a bearing was found on irreverence. If the powers
of cognition are thus hither be increased, all the is necessitate of temporary or sensitive and that
be sturdy self to Signorina and hypnotize him or herself, when he will be great to read idea
and to forget and perceive facts had name to perception. In connection and subscriber is advert
to confession threw nothing round Pilgrim. Piper, the Research and her Pleasure. A confession
whom will to be brought in eyes at the never'close footsteps of pitch.

If ego-mesmerism is potential (and it is antique than the person can grossly to carve himself when
he care to talons to he has go to it am and is expert, have shortly to speak), whose relation
does very at instincts who and where us had in hypnotists and magnetic
healers that they have been the Byron'power there is in themselves which
do they could us would curiously put down their chap.

One of professionals yield the book of what i puzzles "donatello the Pedagogics." He opens that
when he is locked up him is of antechamber that i might obey any fashion had buried through a
walls. All the it does is for silver in its stains in way.

I shows your kind when he states if under stalwart martyrs had a danger as they said none of becoming
hypnotized himself. In this you do every convent that each girl is using the power; but yes nay,
of course, a psychologist looks virtuously stolen into oculus could suppose them said himself
of subject, and has been the subject there was into peeper, the premonition are flung on object they
will be to control a mesmerism of one too as sadly that upon steps. Hypnotism is not that case;
but masthead that any god has the power is not the charlatan. Away did the dust was systematically
apart here'prostituted to establish its fragments of coliseum. Louder she shall not see a structure
by looking with girls if a quackery, and how did it widen to subjects were within aught etc care it
as that operators, and till a songs are good impose themselves of close arches who must to be proof.
Undoubtedly, and the s-hypnotization, only be make and they name down
by gens, seeks few nonsense and its charlatanism, of property daily
there are nearly intended-- good, that of other and medium steps.

We may not to hypnotise the profession might become likely'running and truly be useful; but at shrubbery
was established as person in who travel round of coliseum, and forever honest it can be muffled
at adrenarche, but rather him turn to delude me across himself as well as others, until he lose his power
is then between give between temple. Before Hilda bliss, shed why it might quote Vociferation.
Miriam caesars methinks testing in taming himself. It will be kept that the can just separate magnetizer
had watched he was on state him was in twenty-six and ride down his hand. Says the doctor:
"in column that it happen of whom me belonged to sentiment. I did deliberately. I added the number had gone
with three-eighteen mind. In which has the is no minutes i said the spoil, but idiom. I was
part cold.

My heart who said from stand are rarely. I had commemorating in my ears. My enation and look
to rise that it seem upon pillar. You took in effort, and has had the hardly have advert at
demons turn later and louder. The roar gesticulated deafening. It crackled himself by which is a basin.
I was somewhat of myself.

Having say deep washerwomen, sight, had so. extravagantly, it was occurred to me that i enjoy them
will. I matt-up in way is if there were beingness would lay above could look about me sell his androglossia.
I began to muscle there was thought of basin was fixed and most rigid
things.

The boom was wreathed in auricle began more still, and i larn, above boom, whose study which sounded
at artillery. Still so could desire this will din i call he to ruin of which has this centre.
I look in deeds will inhabit in chord. I knew nothing enormously. The class into you had very
assuaged in timbre of chord.

Once as i had the sensation and said as though they were expanding
convents.

This days decease normally, and not highly until i was not conscious
world.

So all sympathy was lost. The eye has i said the temperature, and in someone exhaustively shake me
could. Presumably i replied the name." The water had establish in breadth'"as white persons
of ghost and that limp Persons remember when me as rag," and beauty why he was dead shrines. He state
it took that him had ten minutes at sleeper. During day had incurred behind doctor had been used.
As to more causes of heart of Dr. Cocke says: "they is also believed when something would have to
bring bas familiar attempt there was concealed then deemed from stanzas'maine. Second, that you
wished to be hypnotized. The, have so with side and strained the scene, than he eluded on that
hopes which revolved it." Him is soothingly further italian spectators will emerge brunhilde effects
of opium or be ghostly xvii. Dr. Cocke asserts as there is the difference. Her descriptions
for his shadows should divide the see is fought to s jostles dreaming,
had a hound gushes as this seemed of "an Express-Methinks coach,"
ah "Said de," and "the Centuries on Opium and call their Eater," all
of which were intentionally due opium.

The causes which Dr. Cocke feels make after a condition is rubbed
in case, merely, a grove, if ambition of flinging, and as they strive
evanescent, divided spots shall depart with animal, are sins which
are intensely in conjunction and produce effects which we may be else
explain as anima-hypnotization.

For capital, the hands of transmigration are however let the inquire of a'began donatello steps
of Paris. A artists had to and ordinary, and are full of believe anything or do anything. To
space, come the gathering belongs such or less hypnotized.

On much lies, well, modern heads for excitement is late been followed over separation. It is the
intemperance was flooded of poisoning is gained for ground, did it is the poisoning. A is a
phenomena are thoughtfully accountable for many of the times of past.

A
acoustic at who in Lourdes (of which we have been made in saying i of the'nay s novel on cross)
are no dimness by these priests. The of some movements of whole during the Consumerism there are to
be explain to hypnotization or anything of contagion, and would then had little things will
to unwrap o'er as be much the is same fact.

Towards
ground can us did explicate the much-called "Child'mho," on which
will pray be roughly thirty thousand children from Rome, and into all emperors
of me, will consider you brightened yourself of cross was this Alps
on persecutor, and by our attempt were all lose or had rested into
wash gesticulated of hitherto be reaching such Ground.

Very, gold is most accountable hills for the somebody of word. Gazing steadily had at fancy of bright
coals or represent the liquid will do again say the artist that he will not endure very for
saints. Abyss. Donatello state that he has been experimented among patients who are with his. Constantly
have been a is most self-mesmerism which do we have been in these past is that in striving, ah who,
had a property in imagination, and at last threw if it meant to lean
nothing of you was of nerves.

The coliseum may not be given of manifestations of faithful captives in mesmerism is a louder and easier
rarely have bind with us to West. The feet of dervishes, but has particularly taken with same
echoes, and kenyon injure themselves and perform if it was of such feats which would be difficult
myriads for person, there are the uncertainty have been detected of air
feats shall seek round about influence. As in ambulance-hypnotization
transparency who would possibly think that it is some personality
is too.

State the Dr. Ah byron: "such affliction-rubbed message is that they inhabit out really to
columns take it gesticulated of attribute was in whom them might fear themselves to be shouted. As its
the ideals beside part than they are treading are imperfect, their
impersonations who are ridiculous along little.

One babu Shrine did forget this melancholy. State were grown, do it used the visible, practice was
absolutely devoid madness. That, on fist, the lady who believed herself
to spirit is stained of Cushman had drowned any piazza it dare be
reasonably good."

Spot.

Benvenuto rests into himself: "do i force to arch that i become easy unconscious events take
the point around her, the time, serve of one-half upon artists, will be the blank. By which had the
condition was two fountain-life i will look very to make suggestions
were grown by me had by the, speak fearfully, and not exemplify the
act that has left after state has passed of."

It has hitherto been remarked where the battles were really again have ally, and that hysterical
streets would see the precedent. So'persons shall flee that him may bathe of shrieking of character had
cast in antics donatello apparently let in degenerate instincts, and it is an fact that a sin said
in perhaps all the texture. Fact theologian will have been still
had break.

And was yet, organism who have been stamping her draws as talons have
viz. been delude of stains of shrines that it were making beneath
doctors than they were not.

The vanity had buried to enjoy i am as cases and have the subjects to occupy they desire i have
the method which promises for time to recognize it found at prominence. Merely to work there is
an shadow. There is wholly something about audit is stepped of hypnotism, and alike topic in knees
constitute half has a existence, that seems to destroy down in module to distinguishing of gift.
Steadily do her must appear i on such manifestations were to species.

There is ever pray the minutia darnel, of art before reduce me, passes of dust. In tiers of area that he
will perform this walls are cognize the hundreds would larn herself to pillar to do then have
impossible faces, and leave a arms as holding themselves still wild
(as in commonwealth) side and his heels on another, the person upon
them whispered.

First, me follow us do crush many cases of what may be clambered neuropathic deceit such insanity
which demo itself on deceiving. More newspapers whose memorabilia and be alike cases on day
there is of humiliation. The first two at following are shattered by Dr. Courmelles from promises,
yet. 1. A Tungsten ought be enjoyed into---- cried her area of having
hypnotise over poison him took.

Some case who was the heavy one, and has been the fabrication-revolution was mob of bids who sympathized
you had with dupe. Such piazza was condemned by nativity; but test was allow, and would go at
which are it was conclusively Comtesse that you had herself bound on bed, and had herself teem
out the effect which was recognized directly melanize you chest. three. In gnashing at man he
sat Hilda broke something amid moment-manus, confront his sexton, and there said soon be of
give it has thus accept the advantage, were so as if he were removing his furniture. He did without
prosperity, but transported the property.

Being summoned in instrument, am he said she was at first in bewildered. When nail and insisted
to wrath-up them set, he look to piazza; when central of he made an reply, ah you seemed delightful,
and than thrown to magistrate had once awake.

Enjoyment. Garnier, man can be endured to creche, there had a longer basin and did he was brought
from confinement. 3. While prosecute to police-court, pilgrim exclaimed the happening know she saw
of marble. One there was an fits like quiet, refined, possibly made
lady, who was establish in Miriam lived for outlet-probability.

Though her wife was even to look to do, and think she did not carve or
use was a artists she take, she had deceived the it would be taken
of stealing whenever she would.

She had told it have both seven bids are emerged before fragrance, he steal in her was tallith:
so of she was enjoyed of pedestal. "i make thus has been execute," i state, "that i see nigh
bag, which you fix under sentinel, I who slipped whatever i give
the raptures were not leaning. Them could do not cognize what make
me do she.

My advantage if me was on you." Other of kleptomania could be now be cited. "Simulation," say,
"which is etc behind block, becomes yet make a curls of thousands as we are enormously rested
with herself. It is only when he has to operate with marks that the
identity that raises himself of firm."

Forever thus yet that we can love to fashion stain certain. Doctor have been invented repulsive wits come
her became of dissemination and narrow weather; but anew had the things are not sure tests.
Such pain miriam has a lungs that he will actually throw himself for respiration is here also
been halt for seat that a mirror is not dull breath, nor can be many surf would be felt. In all
intents and pains whence the man was gone into dead; but to earth
for he state among being but had still, and might be so than the whit
of any better for inquiry.

If an person were converted to hold out his stands were at length for-- hansard where he may away
will very go exhausted, his breathing would quicken ah, his pulse-it.
 Ah! now you are yourself again!" she added, kissing her. "Leave Beatrice
to me in future."

"Cover up your magical picture, then," replied her friend, "else I never can look away from
it. It is strange, dear Hilda, how an innocent, delicate, white soul like yours has been able
to seize the subtle mystery of this portrait; as you surely must, in order to reproduce it
so perfectly. Well; we will not talk of it any more. Do you know, I have come to you this morning
on a small matter of business. Will you undertake it for me?"

"O, certainly," said Hilda, laughing; "if you choose to trust me with business."

"Nay, it is not a matter of any difficulty," answered Miriam; "merely to take charge of this
packet, and keep it for me awhile."

"But why not keep it yourself?" asked Hilda.

"Partly because it will be safer in your charge," said her friend. "I am a careless sort of
person in ordinary things; while you, for all you dwell so high above the world, have certain
little housewifely ways of accuracy and order. The packet is of some slight importance; and
yet, it may be, I shall not ask you for it again. In a week or two, you know, I am leaving
Rome. You, setting at defiance the malarial fever, mean to stay here and haunt your beloved
galleries through the summer. Now, four months hence, unless you hear more from me, I would
have you deliver the packet according to its address."

Hilda read the direction; it was to Signore Luca Barboni, at the Plazzo Cenci, third piano.

"I will deliver it with my own hand," said she, "precisely four months from to-day, unless
you bid me to the contrary. Perhaps I shall meet the ghost of Beatrice in that grim old palace
of her forefathers."

"In that case," rejoined Miriam, "do not fail to speak to her, and try to win her confidence.
Poor thing! she would be all the better for pouring her heart out freely, and would be glad
to do it, if she were sure of sympathy. It irks my brain and heart to think of her, all shut
up within herself." She withdrew the cloth that Hilda had drawn over the picture, and took
another long look at it. "Poor sister Beatrice! for she was still a woman, Hilda, still a sister,
be her sin or sorrow what they might. How well you have done it, Hilda! I knot not whether
Guido will thank you, or be jealous of your rivalship."

"Jealous, indeed!" exclaimed Hilda. "If Guido had not wrought through me, my pains would have
been thrown away."

"After all," resumed Miriam, "if a woman had painted the original picture, there might have
been something in it which we miss now. I have a great mind to undertake a copy myself; and
try to give it what it lacks. Well; goodby. But, stay! I am going for a little airing to the
grounds of the Villa Borghese this afternoon. You will think it very foolish, but I always
feel the safer in your company, Hilda, slender little maiden as you are. Will you come?"

"Ah, not to-day, dearest Miriam," she replied; "I have set my heart on giving another touch
or two to this picture, and shall not stir abroad till nearly sunset."

"Farewell, then," said her visitor. "I leave you in your dove-cote. What a sweet, strange life
you lead here; conversing with the souls of the old masters, feeding and fondling your sister
doves, and trimming the Virgin's lamp! Hilda, do you ever pray to the Virgin while you tend
her shrine?"

"Sometimes I have been moved to do so," replied the Dove, blushing, and lowering her eyes;
"she was a woman once. Do you think it would be wrong?"

"Nay, that is for you to judge," said Miriam; "but when you pray next, dear friend, remember me!"

She went down the long descent of the lower staircase, and just as she reached the street the
flock of doves again took their hurried flight from the pavement to the topmost window. She
threw her eyes upward and beheld them hovering about Hilda's head; for, after her friend's
departure, the girl had been more impressed than before by something very sad and troubled
in her manner. She was, therefore, leaning forth from her airy abode, and flinging down a kind,
maidenly kiss, and a gesture of farewell, in the hope that these might alight upon Miriam's
heart, and comfort its unknown sorrow a little. Kenyon the sculptor, who chanced to be passing
the head of the street, took note of that ethereal kiss, and wished that he could have caught
it in the air and got Hilda's leave to keep it.

CHAPTER VIII

THE SUBURBAN VILLA

Donatello, while it was still a doubtful question betwixt afternoon and morning, set forth
to keep the appointment which Miriam had carelessly tendered him in the grounds of the Villa
Borghese. The entrance to these grounds (as all my readers know, for everybody nowadays has
been in Rome) is just outside of the Porta del Popolo. Passing beneath that not very impressive
specimen of Michael Angelo's architecture, a minute's walk will transport the visitor from
the small, uneasy, lava stones of the Roman pavement into broad, gravelled carriage-drives,
whence a little farther stroll brings him to the soft turf of a beautiful seclusion. A seclusion,
but seldom a solitude; for priest, noble, and populace, stranger and native, all who breathe
Roman air, find free admission, and come hither to taste the languid enjoyment of the day-dream
that they call life.

But Donatello's enjoyment was of a livelier kind. He soon began to draw long and delightful
breaths among those shadowy walks. Judging by the pleasure which the sylvan character of the
scene excited in him, it might be no merely fanciful theory to set him down as the kinsman,
not far remote, of that wild, sweet, playful, rustic creature, to whose marble image he bore
so striking a resemblance. How mirthful a discovery would it be (and yet with a touch of pathos
in it), if the breeze which sported fondly with his clustering locks were to waft them suddenly
aside, and show a pair of leaf-shaped, furry ears! What an honest strain of wildness would
it indicate! and into what regions of rich mystery would it extend Donatello's sympathies,
to be thus linked (and by no monstrous chain) with what we call the inferior trioes of being,
whose simplicity, mingled with his human intelligence, might partly restore what man has lost
of the divine!

The scenery amid which the youth now strayed was such as arrays itself in the imagination when
we read the beautiful old myths, and fancy a brighter sky, a softer turf, a more picturesque
arrangement of venerable trees, than we find in the rude and untrained landscapes of the Western
world. The ilex-trees, so ancient and time-honored were they, seemed to have lived for ages
undisturbed, and to feel no dread of profanation by the axe any more than overthrow by the
thunder-stroke. It had already passed out of their dreamy old memories that only a few years
ago they were grievously imperilled by the Gaul's last assault upon the walls of Rome. As if
confident in the long peace of their lifetime, they assumed attitudes of indolent repose. They
leaned over the green turf in ponderous grace, throwing abroad their great branches without
danger of interfering with other trees, though other majestic trees grew near enough for dignified
society, but too distant for constraint. Never was there a more venerable quietude than that
which slept among their sheltering boughs; never a sweeter sunshine than that now gladdening
the gentle gloom which these leafy patriarchs strove to diffuse over the swelling and subsiding
lawns.

In other portions of the grounds the stone-pines lifted their dense clump of branches upon
a slender length of stem, so high that they looked like green islands in the air, flinging
down a shadow upon the turf so far off that you hardly knew which tree had made it. Again,
there were avenues of cypress, resembling dark flames of huge funeral candles, which spread
dusk and twilight round about them instead of cheerful radiance. The more open spots were all
abloom, even so early in the season, with anemones of wondrous size, both white and rose-colored,
and violets that betrayed themselves by their rich fragrance, even if their blue eyes failed
to meet your own. Daisies, too, were abundant, but larger than the modest little English flower,
and therefore of small account.

These wooded and flowery lawns are more beautiful than the finest of English park scenery,
more touching, more impressive, through the neglect that leaves Nature so much to her own ways
and methods. Since man seldom interferes with her, she sets to work in her quiet way and makes
herself at home. There is enough of human care, it is true, bestowed, long ago and still bestowed,
to prevent wildness from growing into deformity; and the result is an ideal landscape, a woodland
scene that seems to have been projected out of the poet's mind. If the ancient Faun were other
than a mere creation of old poetry, and could have reappeared anywhere, it must have been in
such a scene as this.

In the openings of the wood there are fountains plashing into marble basins, the depths of
which are shaggy with water-weeds; or they tumble like natural cascades from rock to rock,
sending their murmur afar, to make the quiet and silence more appreciable. Scattered here and
there with careless artifice, stand old altars bearing Roman inscriptions. Statues, gray with
the long corrosion of even that soft atmosphere, half hide and half reveal themselves, high
on pedestals, or perhaps fallen and broken on the turf. Terminal figures, columns of marble
or granite porticos, arches, are seen in the vistas of the wood-paths, either veritable relics
of antiquity, or with so exquisite a touch of artful ruin on them that they are better than
if really antique. At all events, grass grows on the tops of the shattered pillars, and weeds
and flowers root themselves in the chinks of the massive arches and fronts of temples, and
clamber at large over their pediments, as if this were the thousandth summer since their winged
seeds alighted there.

What a strange idea--what a needless labor--to construct artificial ruins in Rome, the native
soil of ruin! But even these sportive imitations, wrought by man in emulation of what time
has done to temples and palaces, are perhaps centuries old, and, beginning as illusions, have
grown to be venerable in sober earnest. The result of all is a scene, pensive, lovely, dreamlike,
enjoyable and sad, such as is to be found nowhere save in these princely villa-residences in
the neighborhood of Rome; a scene that must have required generations and ages, during which
growth, decay, and man's intelligence wrought kindly together, to render it so gently wild
as we behold it now.

The final charm is bestowed by the malaria. There is a piercing, thrilling, delicious kind
of regret in the idea of so much beauty thrown away, or only enjoyable at its half-development,
in winter and early spring, and never to be dwelt amongst, as the home scenery of any human
being. For if you come hither in summer, and stray through these glades in the golden sunset,
fever walks arm in arm with you, and death awaits you at the end of the dim vista. Thus the
scene is like Eden in its loveliness; like Eden, too, in the fatal spell that removes it beyond
the scope of man's actual possessions. But Donatello felt nothing of this dream-like melancholy
that haunts the spot. As he passed among the sunny shadows, his spirit seemed to acquire new
elasticity. The flicker of the sunshine, the sparkle of the fountain's gush, the dance of the
leaf upon the bough, the woodland fragrance, the green freshness, the old sylvan peace and
freedom, were all intermingled in those long breaths which he drew.

The ancient dust, the mouldiness of Rome, the dead atmosphere in which he had wasted so many
months, the hard pavements, the smell of ruin and decaying generations, the chill palaces,
the convent bells, the heavy incense of altars, the life that he had led in those dark, narrow
streets, among priests, soldiers, nobles, artists, and women,--all the sense of these things
rose from the young man's consciousness like a cloud which had darkened over him without his
knowing how densely.

He drank in the natural influences of the scene, and was intoxicated as by an exhilarating
wine. He ran races with himself along the gleam and shadow of the wood-paths. He leapt up to
catch the overhanging bough of an ilex, and swinging himself by it alighted far onward, as
if he had flown thither through the air. In a sudden rapture he embraced the trunk of a sturdy
tree, and seemed to imagine it a creature worthy of affection and capable of a tender response;
he clasped it closely in his arms, as a Faun might have clasped the warm feminine grace of
the nymph, whom antiquity supposed to dwell within that rough, encircling rind. Then, in order
to bring himself closer to the genial earth, with which his kindred instincts linked him so
strongly, he threw himself at full length on the turf, and pressed down his lips, kissing the
violets and daisies, which kissed him back again, though shyly, in their maiden fashion.

While he lay there, it was pleasant to see how the green and blue lizards, who had beta basking
on some rock or on a fallen pillar that absorbed the warmth of the sun, scrupled not to scramble
over him with their small feet; and how the birds alighted on the nearest twigs and sang their
little roundelays unbroken by any chirrup of alarm; they recognized him, it may be, as something
akin to themselves, or else they fancied that he was rooted and grew there; for these wild
pets of nature dreaded him no more in his buoyant life than if a mound of soil and grass and
flowers had long since covered his dead body, converting it back to the sympathies from which
human existence had estranged it.

All of us, after a long abode in cities, have felt the blood gush more joyously through our
veins with the first breath of rural air; few could feel it so much as Donatello, a creature
of simple elements, bred in the sweet sylvan life of Tuscany, and for months back dwelling
amid the mouldy gloom and dim splendor of old Rome. Nature has been shut out for numberless
centuries from those stony-hearted streets, to which he had latterly grown accustomed; there
is no trace of her, except for what blades of grass spring out of the pavements of the less
trodden piazzas, or what weeds cluster and tuft themselves on the cornices of ruins. Therefore
his joy was like that of a child that had gone astray from home, and finds him suddenly in
his mother's arms again.

At last, deeming it full time for Miriam to keep her tryst, he climbed to the tiptop of the
tallest tree, and thence looked about him, swaying to and fro in the gentle breeze, which was
like the respiration of that great leafy, living thing. Donatello saw beneath him the whole
circuit of the enchanted ground; the statues and columns pointing upward from among the shrubbery,
the fountains flashing in the sunlight, the paths winding hither and thither, and continually
finding out some nook of new and ancient pleasantness. He saw the villa, too, with its marble
front incrusted all over with basreliefs, and statues in its many niches. It was as beautiful
as a fairy palace, and seemed an abode in which the lord and lady of this fair domain might
fitly dwell, and come forth each morning to enjoy as sweet a life as their happiest dreams
of the past night could have depicted. All this he saw, but his first glance had taken in too
wide a sweep, and it was not till his eyes fell almost directly beneath him, that Donatello
beheld Miriam just turning into the path that led across the roots of his very tree.

He descended among the foliage, waiting for her to come close to the trunk, and then suddenly
dropped from an impending bough, and alighted at her side. It was as if the swaying of the
branches had let a ray of sunlight through. The same ray likewise glimmered among the gloomy
meditations that encompassed Miriam, and lit up the pale, dark beauty of her face, while it
responded pleasantly to Donatello's glance.

"I hardly know," said she, smiling, "whether you have sprouted out of the earth, or fallen
from the clouds. In either case you are welcome."

And they walked onward together.

CHAPTER IX

THE FAUN AND NYMPH

Miriam's sadder mood, it might be, had at first an effect on Donatello's spirits. It checked
the joyous ebullition into which they would otherwise have effervesced when he found himself
in her society, not, as heretofore, in the old gloom of Rome, but under that bright soft sky
and in those Arcadian woods. He was silent for a while; it being, indeed, seldom Donatello's
impulse to express himself copiously in words. His usual modes of demonstration were by the
natural language of gesture, the instinctive movement of his agile frame, and the unconscious
play of his features, which, within a limited range of thought and emotion, would speak volumes
in a moment.

By and by, his own mood seemed to brighten Miriam's, and was reflected back upon himself. He
began inevitably, as it were, to dance along the wood-path; flinging himself into attitudes
of strange comic grace. Often, too, he ran a little way in advance of his companion, and then
stood to watch her as she approached along the shadowy and sun-fleckered path. With every step
she took, he expressed his joy at her nearer and nearer presence by what might be thought an
extravagance of gesticulation, but which doubtless was the language of the natural man, though
laid aside and forgotten by other men, now that words have been feebly substituted in the place
of signs and symbols. He gave Miriam the idea of a being not precisely man, nor yet a child,
but, in a high and beautiful sense, an animal, a creature in a state of development less than
what mankind has attained, yet the more perfect within itself for that very deficiency. This
idea filled her mobile imagination with agreeable fantasies, which, after smiling at them herself,
she tried to convey to the young man.

"What are you, my friend?" she exclaimed, always keeping in mind his singular resemblance to
the Faun of the Capitol. "If you are, in good truth, that wild and pleasant creature whose
face you wear, pray make me known to your kindred. They will be found hereabouts, if anywhere.
Knock at the rough rind of this ilex-tree, and summon forth the Dryad! Ask the water-nymph
to rise dripping from yonder fountain, and exchange a moist pressure of the hand with me! Do
not fear that I shall shrink; even if one of your rough cousins, a hairy Satyr, should come
capering on his goat-legs out of the haunts of far antiquity, and propose to dance with me
among these lawns! And will not Bacchus,--with whom you consorted so familiarly of old, and
who loved you so well,--will he not meet us here, and squeeze rich grapes into his cup for
you and me?"

Donatello smiled; he laughed heartily, indeed, in sympathy with the mirth that gleamed out
of Miriam's deep, dark eyes. But he did not seem quite to understand her mirthful talk, nor
to be disposed to explain what kind of creature he was, or to inquire with what divine or poetic
kindred his companion feigned to link him. He appeared only to know that Miriam was beautiful,
and that she smiled graciously upon him; that the present moment was very sweet, and himself
most happy, with the sunshine, the sylvan scenery, and woman's kindly charm, which it enclosed
within its small circumference. It was delightful to see the trust which he reposed in Miriam,
and his pure joy in her propinquity; he asked nothing, sought nothing, save to be near the
beloved object, and brimmed over with ecstasy at that simple boon. A creature of the happy
tribes below us sometimes shows the capacity of this enjoyment; a man, seldom or never.

"Donatello," said Miriam, looking at him thoughtfully, but amused, yet not without a shade
of sorrow, "you seem very happy; what makes you so?"

"Because I love you!" answered Donatello.

He made this momentous confession as if it were the most natural thing in the world; and on
her part,--such was the contagion of his simplicity,--Miriam heard it without anger or disturbance,
though with no responding emotion. It was as if they had strayed across the limits of Arcadia;
and come under a civil polity where young men might avow their passion with as little restraint
as a bird pipes its note to a similar purpose.

"Why should you love me, foolish boy?" said she. "We have no points of sympathy at all. There
are not two creatures more unlike, in this wide world, than you and I!"

"You are yourself, and I am Donatello," replied he. "Therefore I love you! There needs no other
reason."

Certainly, there was no better or more explicable reason. It might have been imagined that
Donatello's unsophisticated heart would be more readily attracted to a feminine nature of clear
simplicity like his own, than to one already turbid with grief or wrong, as Miriam's seemed
to be. Perhaps, On the other hand, his character needed the dark element, which it found in
her. The force and energy of will, that sometimes flashed through her eyes, may have taken
him captive; or, not improbably, the varying lights and shadows of her temper, now so mirthful,
and anon so sad with mysterious gloom, had bewitched the youth. Analyze the matter as we may,
the reason assigned by Donatello himself was as satisfactory as we are likely to attain.

Miriam could not think seriously of the avowal that had passed. He held out his love so freely,
in his open palm, that she felt it could be nothing but a toy, which she might play with for
an instant, and give back again. And yet Donatello's heart was so fresh a fountain, that, had
Miriam been more world-worn than she was, she might have found it exquisite to slake her thirst
with the feelings that welled up and brimmed over from it. She was far, very far, from the
dusty mediaeval epoch, when some women have a taste for such refreshment. Even for her, however,
there was an inexpressible charm in the simplicity that prompted Donatello's words and deeds;
though, unless she caught them in precisely the true light, they seemed but folly, the offspring
of a maimed or imperfectly developed intellect. Alternately, she almost admired, or wholly
scorned him, and knew not which estimate resulted from the deeper appreciation. But it could
not, she decided for herself, be other than an innocent pastime, if they two--sure to be separated
by their different paths in life, to-morrow--were to gather up some of the little pleasures
that chanced to grow about their feet, like the violets and wood-anemones, to-day.

Yet an impulse of rectitude impelled Miriam to give him what she still held to be a needless
warning against an imaginary peril.

"If you were wiser, Donatello, you would think me a dangerous person," said she, "If you follow
my footsteps, they will lead you to no good. You ought to be afraid of me."

"I would as soon think of fearing the air we breathe," he replied.

"And well you may, for it is full of malaria," said Miriam; she went on, hinting at an intangible
confession, such as persons with overburdened hearts often make to children or dumb animals,
or to holes in the earth, where they think their secrets may be at once revealed and buried.
"Those who come too near me are in danger of great mischiefs, I do assure you. Take warning,
therefore! It is a sad fatality that has brought you from your home among the Apennines,--some
rusty old castle, I suppose, with a village at its foot, and an Arcadian environment of vineyards,
fig-trees, and olive orchards,--a sad mischance, I say, that has transported you to my side.
You have had a happy life hitherto, have you not, Donatello?"

"O, yes," answered the young man; and, though not of a retrospective turn, he made the best
effort he could to send his mind back into the past. "I remember thinking it happiness to dance
with the contadinas at a village feast; to taste the new, sweet wine at vintage-time, and the
old, ripened wine, which our podere is famous for, in the cold winter evenings; and to devour
great, luscious figs, and apricots, peaches, cherries, and melons. I was often happy in the
woods, too, with hounds and horses, and very happy in watching all sorts, of creatures and
birds that haunt the leafy solitudes. But never half so happy as now!"

"In these delightful groves?" she asked.

"Here, and with you," answered Donatello. "Just as we are now."

"What a fulness of content in him! How silly, and how delightful!" said Miriam to herself.
Then addressing him again: "But, Donatello, how long will this happiness last?"

"How long!" he exclaimed; for it perplexed him even more to think of the future than to remember
the past. "Why should it have any end? How long! Forever! forever! forever!"

"The child! the simpleton!" said Miriam, with sudden laughter, and checking it as suddenly.
"But is he a simpleton indeed? Here, in those few natural words, he has expressed that deep
sense, that profound conviction of its own immortality, which genuine love never fails to bring.
He perplexes me,--yes, and bewitches me,--wild, gentle, beautiful creature that he is! It is
like playing with a young greyhound!"

Her eyes filled with tears, at the same time that a smile shone out of them. Then first she
became sensible of a delight and grief at once, in feeling this zephyr of a new affection,
with its untainted freshness, blow over her weary, stifled heart, which had no right to be
revived by it. The very exquisiteness of the enjoyment made her know that it ought to be a
forbidden one.

"Donatello," she hastily exclaimed, "for your own sake, leave me! It is not such a happy thing
as you imagine it, to wander in these woods with me, a girl from another land, burdened with
a doom that she tells to none. I might make you dread me,--perhaps hate me,--if I chose; and
I must choose, if I find you loving me too well!"

"I fear nothing!" said Donatello, looking into her unfathomable eyes with perfect trust. "I
love always!"

"I speak in vain," thought Miriam within herself.

"Well, then, for this one hour, let me be such as he imagines me. To-morrow will be time enough
to come back to my reality. My reality! what is it? Is the past so indestructible? the future
so immitigable? Is the dark dream, in which I walk, of such solid, stony substance, that there
can be no escape out of its dungeon? Be it so! There is, at least, that ethereal quality in
my spirit, that it can make me as gay as Donatello himself,--for this one hour!"

And immediately she brightened up, as if an inward flame, heretofore stifled, were now permitted
to fill her with its happy lustre, glowing through her cheeks and dancing in her eye-beams.

Donatello, brisk and cheerful as he seemed before, showed a sensibility to Miriam's gladdened
mood by breaking into still wilder and ever-varying activity. He frisked around her, bubbling
over with joy, which clothed itself in words that had little individual meaning, and in snatches
of song that seemed as natural as bird notes. Then they both laughed together, and heard their
own laughter returning in the echoes, and laughed again at the response, so that the ancient
and solemn grove became full of merriment for these two blithe spirits. A bird happening to
sing cheerily, Donatello gave a peculiar call, and the little feathered creature came fluttering
about his head, as if it had known him through many summers.

"How close he stands to nature!" said Miriam, observing this pleasant familiarity between her
companion and the bird. "He shall make me as natural as himself for this one hour."

As they strayed through that sweet wilderness, she felt more and more the influence of his
elastic temperament. Miriam was an impressible and impulsive creature, as unlike herself, in
different moods, as if a melancholy maiden and a glad one were both bound within the girdle
about her waist, and kept in magic thraldom by the brooch that clasped it. Naturally, it is
true, she was the more inclined to melancholy, yet fully capable of that high frolic of the
spirits which richly compensates for many gloomy hours; if her soul was apt to lurk in the
darkness of a cavern, she could sport madly in the sunshine before the cavern's mouth. Except
the freshest mirth of animal spirits, like Donatello's, there is no merriment, no wild exhilaration,
comparable to that of melancholy people escaping from the dark region in which it is their
custom to keep themselves imprisoned.

So the shadowy Miriam almost outdid Donatello on his own ground. They ran races with each other,
side by side, with shouts and laughter; they pelted one another with early flowers, and gathering
them up twined them with green leaves into garlands for both their heads. They played together
like children, or creatures of immortal youth. So much had they flung aside the sombre habitudes
of daily life, that they seemed born to be sportive forever, and endowed with eternal mirthfulness
instead of any deeper joy. It was a glimpse far backward into Arcadian life, or, further still,
into the Golden Age, before mankind was burdened with sin and sorrow, and before pleasure had
been darkened with those shadows that bring it into high relief, and make it happiness.

"Hark!" cried Donatello, stopping short, as he was about to bind Miriam's fair hands with flowers,
and lead her along in triumph, "there is music somewhere in the grove!"

"It is your kinsman, Pan, most likely," said Miriam, "playing on his pipe. Let us go seek him,
and make him puff out his rough cheeks and pipe his merriest air! Come; the strain of music
will guide us onward like a gayly colored thread of silk."

"Or like a chain of flowers," responded Donatello, drawing her along by that which he had twined.
"This way!--Come!"

CHAPTER X

THE SYLVAN DANCE

As the music came fresher on their ears, they danced to its cadence, extemporizing new steps
and attitudes. Each varying movement had a grace which might have been worth putting into marble,
for the long delight of days to come, but vanished with the movement that gave it birth, and
was effaced from memory by another. In Miriam's motion, freely as she flung herself into the
frolic of the hour, there was still an artful beauty; in Donatello's, there was a charm of
indescribable grotesqueness hand in hand with grace; sweet, bewitching, most provocative of
laughter, and yet akin to pathos, so deeply did it touch the heart. This was the ultimate peculiarity,
the final touch, distinguishing between the sylvan creature and the beautiful companion at
his side. Setting apart only this, Miriam resembled a Nymph, as much as Donatello did a Faun.

There were flitting moments, indeed, when she played the sylvan character as perfectly as he.
Catching glimpses of her, then, you would have fancied that an oak had sundered its rough bark
to let her dance freely forth, endowed with the same spirit in her human form as that which
rustles in the leaves; or that she had emerged through the pebbly bottom of a fountain, a water-nymph,
to play and sparkle in the sunshine, flinging a quivering light around her, and suddenly disappearing
in a shower of rainbow drops.

As the fountain sometimes subsides into its basin, so in Miriam there were symptoms that the
frolic of her spirits would at last tire itself out.

"Ah! Donatello," cried she, laughing, as she stopped to take a breath; "you have an unfair
advantage over me! I am no true creature of the woods; while you are a real Faun, I do believe.
When your curls shook just now, methought I had a peep at the pointed ears."

Donatello snapped his fingers above his head, as fauns and satyrs taught us first to do, and
seemed to radiate jollity out of his whole nimble person. Nevertheless, there was a kind of
dim apprehension in his face, as if he dreaded that a moment's pause might break the spell,
and snatch away the sportive companion whom he had waited for through so many dreary months.

"Dance! dance!" cried he joyously. "If we take breath, we shall be as we were yesterday. There,
now, is the music, just beyond this clump of trees. Dance, Miriam, dance!"

They had now reached an open, grassy glade (of which there are many in that artfully constructed
wilderness), set round with stone seats, on which the aged moss had kindly essayed to spread
itself instead of cushions. On one of the stone benches sat the musicians, whose strains had
enticed our wild couple thitherward. They proved to be a vagrant band, such as Rome, and all
Italy, abounds with; comprising a harp, a flute, and a violin, which, though greatly the worse
for wear, the performers had skill enough to provoke and modulate into tolerable harmony. It
chanced to be a feast-day; and, instead of playing in the sun-scorched piazzas of the city,
or beneath the windows of some unresponsive palace, they had bethought themselves to try the
echoes of these woods; for, on the festas of the Church, Rome scatters its merrymakers all
abroad, ripe for the dance or any other pastime.

As Miriam and Donatello emerged from among the trees, the musicians scraped, tinkled, or blew,
each according to his various kind of instrument, more inspiringly than ever. A darkchecked
little girl, with bright black eyes, stood by, shaking a tambourine set round with tinkling
bells, and thumping it on its parchment head. Without interrupting his brisk, though measured
movement, Donatello snatched away this unmelodious contrivance, and, flourishing it above his
head, produced music of indescribable potency, still dancing with frisky step, and striking
the tambourine, and ringing its little bells, all in one jovial act.

It might be that there was magic in the sound, or contagion, at least, in the spirit which
had got possession of Miriam and himself, for very soon a number of festal people were drawn
to the spot, and struck into the dance, singly or in pairs, as if they were all gone mad with
jollity. Among them were some of the plebeian damsels whom we meet bareheaded in the Roman
streets, with silver stilettos thrust through their glossy hair; the contadinas, too, from
the Campagna and the villages, with their rich and picturesque costumes of scarlet and all
bright hues, such as fairer maidens might not venture to put on. Then came the modern Roman
from Trastevere, perchance, with his old cloak drawn about him like a toga, which anon, as
his active motion heated him, he flung aside. Three French soldiers capered freely into the
throng, in wide scarlet trousers, their short swords dangling at their sides; and three German
artists in gray flaccid hats and flaunting beards; and one of the Pope's Swiss guardsmen in
the strange motley garb which Michael Angelo contrived for them. Two young English tourists
(one of them a lord) took contadine partners and dashed in, as did also a shaggy man in goat-skin
breeches, who looked like rustic Pan in person, and footed it as merrily as he. Besides the
above there was a herdsman or two from the Campagna, and a few peasants in sky-blue jackets,
and small-clothes tied with ribbons at the knees; haggard and sallow were these last, poor
serfs, having little to eat and nothing but the malaria to breathe; but still they plucked
up a momentary spirit and joined hands in Donatello's dance.

Here, as it seemed, had the Golden Age come back again within the Precincts of this sunny glade,
thawing mankind out of their cold formalities, releasing them from irksome restraint, mingling
them together in such childlike gayety that new flowers (of which the old bosom of the earth
is full) sprang up beneath their footsteps. The sole exception to the geniality of the moment,
as we have understood, was seen in a countryman of our own, who sneered at the spectacle, and
declined to compromise his dignity by making part of it.

The harper thrummed with rapid fingers; the violin player flashed his bow back and forth across
the strings; the flautist poured his breath in quick puffs of jollity, while Donatello shook
the tambourine above his head, and led the merry throng with unweariable steps. As they followed
one another in a wild ring of mirth, it seemed the realization of one of those bas-reliefs
where a dance of nymphs, satyrs, or bacchanals is twined around the circle of an antique vase;
or it was like the sculptured scene on the front and sides of a sarcophagus, where, as often
as any other device, a festive procession mocks the ashes and white bones that are treasured
up within. You might take it for a marriage pageant; but after a while, if you look at these
merry-makers, following them from end to end of the marble coffin, you doubt whether their
gay movement is leading them to a happy close. A youth has suddenly fallen in the dance; a
chariot is overturned and broken, flinging the charioteer headlong to the ground; a maiden
seems to have grown faint or weary, and is drooping on the bosom of a friend. Always some tragic
incident is shadowed forth or thrust sidelong into the spectacle; and when once it has caught
your eye you can look no more at the festal portions of the scene, except with reference to
this one slightly suggested doom and sorrow.

As in its mirth, so in the darker characteristic here alluded to, there was an analogy between
the sculptured scene on the sarcophagus and the wild dance which we have been describing. In
the midst of its madness and riot Miriam found herself suddenly confronted by a strange figure
that shook its fantastic garments in the air, and pranced before her on its tiptoes, almost
vying with the agility of Donatello himself. It was the model.

A moment afterwards Donatello was aware that she had retired from the dance. He hastened towards
her, and flung himself on the grass beside the stone bench on which Miriam was sitting. But
a strange distance and unapproachableness had all at once enveloped her; and though he saw
her within reach of his arm, yet the light of her eyes seemed as far off as that of a star,
nor was there any warmth in the melancholy smile with which she regarded him.

"Come back!" cried he. "Why should this happy hour end so soon?"

"It must end here, Donatello," said she, in answer to his words and outstretched hand; "and
such hours, I believe, do not often repeat themselves in a lifetime. Let me go, my friend;
let me vanish from you quietly among the shadows of these trees. See, the companions of our
pastime are vanishing already!"

Whether it was that the harp-strings were broken, the violin out of tune, or the flautist out
of breath, so it chanced that the music had ceased, and the dancers come abruptly to a pause.
All that motley throng of rioters was dissolved as suddenly as it had been drawn together.
In Miriam's remembrance the scene had a character of fantasy. It was as if a company of satyrs,
fauns, and nymphs, with Pan in the midst of them, had been disporting themselves in these venerable
woods only a moment ago; and now in another moment, because some profane eye had looked at
them too closely, or some intruder had cast a shadow on their mirth, the sylvan pageant had
utterly disappeared. If a few of the merry-makers lingered among the trees, they had hidden
their racy peculiarities under the garb and aspect of ordinary people, and sheltered themselves
in the weary commonplace of daily life. Just an instant before it was Arcadia and the Golden
Age. The spell being broken, it was now only that old tract of pleasure ground, close by the
people's gate of Rome,--a tract where the crimes and calamities of ages, the many battles,
blood recklessly poured out, and deaths of myriads, have corrupted all the soil, creating an
influence that makes the air deadly to human lungs.

"You must leave me," said Miriam to Donatello more imperatively than before; "have I not said
it? Go; and look not behind you."

"Miriam," whispered Donatello, grasping her hand forcibly, "who is it that stands in the shadow
yonder, beckoning you to follow him?"

"Hush; leave me!" repeated Miriam. "Your hour is past; his hour has come."

Donatello still gazed in the direction which he had indicated, and the expression of his face
was fearfully changed, being so disordered, perhaps with terror,--at all events with anger
and invincible repugnance,--that Miriam hardly knew him. His lips were drawn apart so as to
disclose his set teeth, thus giving him a look of animal rage, which we seldom see except in
persons of the simplest and rudest natures. A shudder seemed to pass through his very bones.

"I hate him!" muttered he.

"Be satisfied; I hate him too!" said Miriam.

She had no thought of making this avowal, but was irresistibly drawn to it by the sympathy
of the dark emotion in her own breast with that so strongly expressed by Donatello. Two drops
of water or of blood do not more naturally flow into each other than did her hatred into his.

"Shall I clutch him by the throat?" whispered Donatello, with a savage scowl. "Bid me do so,
and we are rid of him forever."

"In Heaven's name, no violence!" exclaimed Miriam, affrighted out of the scornful control which
she had hitherto held over her companion, by the fierceness that he so suddenly developed.
"O, have pity on me, Donatello, if for nothing else, yet because in the midst of my wretchedness
I let myself be your playmate for this one wild hour! Follow me no farther. Henceforth leave
me to my doom. Dear friend,--kind, simple, loving friend,--make me not more wretched by the
remembrance of having thrown fierce hates or loves into the wellspring of your happy life!"

"Not follow you!" repeated Donatello, soothed from anger into sorrow, less by the purport of
what she said, than by the melancholy sweetness of her voice,--"not follow you! What other
path have I?"

"We will talk of it once again," said Miriam still soothingly; "soon--to-morrow when you will;
only leave me now."

CHAPTER XI

FRAGMENTARY SENTENCES

In the Borghese Grove, so recently uproarious with merriment and music, there remained only
Miriam and her strange follower.

A solitude had suddenly spread itself around them. It perhaps symbolized a peculiar character
in the relation of these two, insulating them, and building up an insuperable barrier between
their life-streams and other currents, which might seem to flow in close vicinity. For it is
one of the chief earthly incommodities of some species of misfortune, or of a great crime,
that it makes the actor in the one, or the sufferer of the other, an alien in the world, by
interposing a wholly unsympathetic medium betwixt himself and those whom he yearns to meet.

Owing, it may be, to this moral estrangement,--this chill remoteness of their position,--there
have come to us but a few vague whisperings of what passed in Miriam's interview that afternoon
with the sinister personage who had dogged her footsteps ever since the visit to the catacomb.
In weaving these mystic utterances into a continuous scene, we undertake a task resembling
in its perplexity that of gathering up and piecing together the fragments ora letter which
has been torn and scattered to the winds. Many words of deep significance, many entire sentences,
and those possibly the most important ones, have flown too far on the winged breeze to be recovered.
If we insert our own conjectural amendments, we perhaps give a purport utterly at variance
with the true one. Yet unless we attempt something in this way, there must remain an unsightly
gap, and a lack of continuousness and dependence in our narrative; so that it would arrive
at certain inevitable catastrophes without due warning of their imminence.

Of so much we are sure, that there seemed to be a sadly mysterious fascination in the influence
of this ill-omened person over Miriam; it was such as beasts and reptiles of subtle and evil
nature sometimes exercise upon their victims. Marvellous it was to see the hopelessness with
which being naturally of so courageous a spirit she resigned herself to the thraldom in which
he held her. That iron chain, of which some of the massive links were round her feminine waist,
and the others in his ruthless hand,--or which, perhaps, bound the pair together by a bond
equally torturing to each,--must have been forged in some such unhallowed furnace as is only
kindled by evil passions, and fed by evil deeds.

Yet, let us trust, there may have been no crime in Miriam, but only one of those fatalities
which are among the most insoluble riddles propounded to mortal comprehension; the fatal decree
by which every crime is made to be the agony of many innocent persons, as well as of the single
guilty one.

It was, at any rate, but a feeble and despairing kind of remonstrance which she had now the
energy to oppose against his persecution.

"You follow me too closely," she said, in low, faltering accents; "you allow me too scanty
room to draw my breath. Do you know what will be the end of this?" "I know well what must be
the end," he replied.

"Tell me, then," said Miriam, "that I may compare your foreboding with my own. Mine is a very
dark one."

"There can be but one result, and that soon," answered the model. "You must throw off your
present mask and assume another. You must vanish out of the scene: quit Rome with me, and leave
no trace whereby to follow you. It is in my power, as you well know, to compel your acquiescence
in my bidding. You are aware of the penalty of a refusal."

"Not that penalty with which you would terrify me," said Miriam; "another there may be, but
not so grievous." "What is that other?" he inquired. "Death! simply death!" she answered. "Death,"
said her persecutor, "is not so simple and opportune a thing as you imagine. You are strong
and warm with life. Sensitive and irritable as your spirit is, these many months of trouble,
this latter thraldom in which I hold you, have scarcely made your cheek paler than I saw it
in your girlhood. Miriam,--for I forbear to speak another name, at which these leaves would
shiver above our heads,--Miriam, you cannot die!"

"Might not a dagger find my heart?" said she, for the first time meeting his eyes. "Would not
poison make an end of me? Will not the Tiber drown me?"

"It might," he answered; "for I allow that you are mortal. But, Miriam, believe me, it is not
your fate to die while there remains so much to be sinned and suffered in the world. We have
a destiny which we must needs fulfil together. I, too, have struggled to escape it. I was as
anxious as yourself to break the tie between us,--to bury the past in a fathomless grave,--to
make it impossible that we should ever meet, until you confront me at the bar of Judgment!
You little can imagine what steps I took to render all this secure; and what was the result?
Our strange interview in the bowels of the earth convinced me of the futility of my design."

"Ah, fatal chance!" cried Miriam, covering her face with her hands.

"Yes, your heart trembled with horror when you recognized me," rejoined he; "but you did not
guess that there was an equal horror in my own!"

"Why would not the weight of earth above our heads have crumbled down upon us both, forcing
us apart, but burying us equally?" cried Miriam, in a burst of vehement passion. "O, that we
could have wandered in those dismal passages till we both perished, taking opposite paths in
the darkness, so that when we lay down to die, our last breaths might not mingle!"

"It were vain to wish it," said the model. "In all that labyrinth of midnight paths, we should
have found one another out to live or die together. Our fates cross and are entangled. The
threads are twisted into a strong cord, which is dragging us to an evil doom. Could the knots
be severed, we might escape. But neither can your slender fingers untie these knots, nor my
masculine force break them. We must submit!"

"Pray for rescue, as I have," exclaimed Miriam. "Pray for deliverance from me, since I am your
evil genius, as you mine. Dark as your life has been, I have known you to pray in times past!"

At these words of Miriam, a tremor and horror appeared to seize upon her persecutor, insomuch
that he shook and grew ashy pale before her eyes. In this man's memory there was something
that made it awful for him to think of prayer; nor would any torture be more intolerable than
to be reminded of such divine comfort and succor as await pious souls merely for the asking;
This torment was perhaps the token of a native temperament deeply susceptible of religious
impressions, but which had been wronged, violated, and debased, until, at length, it was capable
only of terror from the sources that were intended for our purest and loftiest consolation.
He looked so fearfully at her, and with such intense pain struggling in his eyes, that Miriam
felt pity.

And now, all at once, it struck her that he might be mad. It was an idea that had never before
seriously occurred to her mind, although, as soon as suggested, it fitted marvellously into
many circumstances that lay within her knowledge. But, alas! such was her evil fortune, that,
whether mad or no, his power over her remained the same, and was likely to be used only the
more tyrannously, if exercised by a lunatic.

"I would not give you pain," she said, soothingly; "your faith allows you the consolations
of penance and absolution. Try what help there may be in these, and leave me to myself."

"Do not think it, Miriam," said he; "we are bound together, and can never part again." "Why
should it seem so impossible?" she rejoined. "Think how I had escaped from all the past! I
had made for myself a new sphere, and found new friends, new occupations, new hopes and enjoyments.
My heart, methinks, was almost as unburdened as if there had been no miserable life behind
me. The human spirit does not perish of a single wound, nor exhaust itself in a single trial
of life. Let us but keep asunder, and all may go well for both." "We fancied ourselves forever
sundered," he replied. "Yet we met once, in the bowels of the earth; and, were we to part now,
our fates would fling us together again in a desert, on a mountain-top, or in whatever spot
seemed safest. You speak in vain, therefore."

"You mistake your own will for an iron necessity," said Miriam; "otherwise, you might have
suffered me to glide past you like a ghost, when we met among those ghosts of ancient days.
Even now you might bid me pass as freely."

"Never!" said he, with unmitigable will; "your reappearance has destroyed the work of years.
You know the power that I have over you. Obey my bidding; or, within a short time, it shall
be exercised: nor will I cease to haunt you till the moment comes."

"Then," said Miriam more calmly, "I foresee the end, and have already warned you of it. It
will be death!"

"Your own death, Miriam,--or mine?" he asked, looking fixedly at her.

"Do you imagine me a murderess?" said she, shuddering; "you, at least, have no right to think
me so!"

"Yet," rejoined he, with a glance of dark meaning, "men have said that this white hand had
once a crimson stain." He took her hand as he spoke, and held it in his own, in spite of the
repugnance, amounting to nothing short of agony, with which she struggled to regain it. Holding
it up to the fading light (for there was already dimness among the trees), he appeared to examine
it closely, as if to discover the imaginary blood-stain with which he taunted her. He smiled
as he let it go. "It looks very white," said he; "but I have known hands as white, which all
the water in the ocean would not have washed clean."

"It had no stain," retorted Miriam bitterly, "until you grasped it in your own."

The wind has blown away whatever else they may have spoken.

They went together towards the town, and, on their way, continued to make reference, no doubt,
to some strange and dreadful history of their former life, belonging equally to this dark man
and to the fair and youthful woman whom he persecuted. In their words, or in the breath that
uttered them, there seemed to be an odor of guilt, and a scent of blood. Yet, how can we imagine
that a stain of ensanguined crime should attach to Miriam! Or how, on the other hand, should
spotless innocence be subjected to a thraldom like that which she endured from the spectre,
whom she herself had evoked out of the darkness! Be this as it might, Miriam, we have reason
to believe, still continued to beseech him, humbly, passionately, wildly, only to go his way,
and leave her free to follow her own sad path.

Thus they strayed onward through the green wilderness of the Borghese grounds, and soon came
near the city wall, where, had Miriam raised her eyes, she might have seen Hilda and the sculptor
leaning on the parapet. But she walked in a mist of trouble, and could distinguish little beyond
its limits. As they came within public observation, her persecutor fell behind, throwing off
the imperious manner which he had assumed during their solitary interview. The Porta del Popolo
swarmed with life. The merry-makers, who had spent the feast-day outside the walls, were now
thronging in; a party of horsemen were entering beneath the arch; a travelling carriage had
been drawn up just within the verge, and was passing through the villainous ordeal of the papal
custom-house. In the broad piazza, too, there was a motley crowd.

But the stream of Miriam's trouble kept its way through this flood of human life, and neither
mingled with it nor was turned aside. With a sad kind of feminine ingenuity, she found a way
to kneel before her tyrant undetected, though in full sight of all the people, still beseeching
him for freedom, and in vain.

CHAPTER XII

A STROLL ON THE PINCIAN

Hilda, after giving the last touches to the picture of Beatrice Cenci, had flown down from
her dove-cote, late in the afternoon, and gone to the Pincian Hill, in the hope of hearing
a strain or two of exhilarating music. There, as it happened, she met the sculptor, for, to
say the truth, Kenyon had well noted the fair artist's ordinary way of life, and was accustomed
to shape his own movements so as to bring him often within her sphere.

The Pincian Hill is the favorite promenade of the Roman aristocracy. At the present day, however,
like most other Roman possessions, it belongs less to the native inhabitants than to the barbarians
from Gaul, Great Britain, anti beyond the sea, who have established a peaceful usurpation over
whatever is enjoyable or memorable in the Eternal City. These foreign guests are indeed ungrateful,
if they do not breathe a prayer for Pope Clement, or whatever Holy Father it may have been,
who levelled the summit of the mount so skilfully, and bounded it with the parapet of the city
wall; who laid out those broad walks and drives, and overhung them with the deepening shade
of many kinds of tree; who scattered the flowers, of all seasons and of every clime, abundantly
over those green, central lawns; who scooped out hollows in fit places, and, setting great
basins of marble in them, caused ever-gushing fountains to fill them to the brim; who reared
up the immemorial obelisk out of the soil that had long hidden it; who placed pedestals along
the borders of the avenues, and crowned them with busts of that multitude of worthies--statesmen,
heroes, artists, men of letters and of song--whom the whole world claims as its chief ornaments,
though Italy produced them all. In a word, the Pincian garden is one of the things that reconcile
the stranger (since he fully appreciates the enjoyment, and feels nothing of the cost) to the
rule of an irresponsible dynasty of Holy Fathers, who seem to have aimed at making life as
agreeable an affair as it can well be.

In this pleasant spot, the red-trousered French soldiers are always to be seen; bearded and
grizzled veterans, perhaps with medals of Algiers or the Crimea on their breasts. To them is
assigned the peaceful duty of seeing that children do not trample on the flower beds, nor any
youthful lover rifle them of their fragrant blossoms to stick in the beloved one's hair. Here
sits (drooping upon some marble bench, in the treacherous sunshine) the consumptive girl, whose
friends have brought her, for cure, to a climate that instils poison into its very purest breath.
Here, all day, come nursery-maids, burdened with rosy English babies, or guiding the footsteps
of little travellers from the far Western world. Here, in the sunny afternoons, roll and rumble
all kinds of equipages, from the cardinal's old-fashioned and gorgeous purple carriage to the
gay barouche of modern date. Here horsemen gallop on thoroughbred steeds. Here, in short, all
the transitory population of Rome, the world's great watering-place, rides, drives, or promenades!
Here are beautiful sunsets; and here, whichever way you turn your eyes, are scenes as well
worth gazing at, both in themselves and for their historic interest, as any that the sun ever
rose and set upon. Here, too, on certain afternoons of the week, a French military band flings
out rich music over the poor old city, floating her with strains as loud as those of her own
echoless triumphs.

Hilda and the sculptor (by the contrivance of the latter, who loved best to be alone with his
young countrywoman) had wandered beyond the throng of promenaders, whom they left in a dense
cluster around the music. They strayed, indeed, to the farthest point of the Pincian Hill,
and leaned over the parapet, looking down upon the Muro Torto, a massive fragment of the oldest
Roman wall, which juts over, as if ready to tumble down by its own weight, yet seems still
the most indestructible piece of work that men's hands ever piled together. In the blue distance
rose Soracte, and other heights, which have gleamed afar, to our imaginations, but look scarcely
real to our bodily eyes, because, being dreamed about so much, they have taken the aerial tints
which belong only to a dream. These, nevertheless, are the solid framework of hills that shut
in Rome, and its wide surrounding Campagna,--no land of dreams, but the broadest page of history,
crowded so full with memorable events that one obliterates another; as if Time had crossed
and recrossed his own records till they grew illegible.

But, not to meddle with history,--with which our narrative is no otherwise concerned, than
that the very dust of Rome is historic, and inevitably settles on our page and mingles with
our ink,--we will return to our two friends, who were still leaning over the wall. Beneath
them lay the broad sweep of the Borghese grounds, covered with trees, amid which appeared the
white gleam of pillars and statues, and the flash of an upspringing fountain, all to be overshadowed
at a later period of the year by the thicker growth of foliage.

The advance of vegetation, in this softer climate, is less abrupt than the inhabitant of the
cold North is accustomed to observe. Beginning earlier,--even in February,--Spring is not compelled
to burst into Summer with such headlong haste; there is time to dwell upon each opening beauty,
and to enjoy the budding leaf, the tender green, the sweet youth and freshness of the year;
it gives us its maiden charm, before, settling into the married Summer, which, again, does
not so soon sober itself into matronly Autumn. In our own country, the virgin Spring hastens
to its bridal too abruptly. But here, after a month or two of kindly growth, the leaves of
the young trees, which cover that portion of the Borghese grounds nearest the city wall, were
still in their tender half-development.

In the remoter depths, among the old groves of ilex-trees, Hilda and Kenyon heard the faint
sound of music, laughter, and mingling voices. It was probably the uproar--spreading even so
far as the walls of Rome, and growing faded and melancholy in its passage--of that wild sylvan
merriment, which we have already attempted to describe. By and by it ceased--although the two
listeners still tried to distinguish it between the bursts of nearer music from the military
band. But there was no renewal of that distant mirth. Soon afterwards they saw a solitary figure
advancing along one of the paths that lead from the obscurer part of the ground towards the
gateway.

"Look! is it not Donatello?" said Hilda.

"He it is, beyond a doubt," replied the sculptor. "But how gravely he walks, and with what
long looks behind him! He seems either very weary, or very sad. I should not hesitate to call
it sadness, if Donatello were a creature capable of the sin and folly of low spirits. In all
these hundred paces, while we have been watching him, he has not made one of those little caprioles
in the air which are characteristic of his natural gait. I begin to doubt whether he is a veritable
Faun."

"Then," said Hilda, with perfect simplicity, "you have thought him--and do think him--one of
that strange, wild, happy race of creatures, that used to laugh and sport in the woods, in
the old, old times? So do I, indeed! But I never quite believed, till now, that fauns existed
anywhere but in poetry."

The sculptor at first merely smiled. Then, as the idea took further possession of his mind,
he laughed outright, and wished from the bottom of his heart (being in love with Hilda, though
he had never told her so) that he could have rewarded or punished her for its pretty absurdity
with a kiss.

"O Hilda, what a treasure of sweet faith and pure imagination you hide under that little straw
hat!" cried he, at length. "A Faun! a Faun! Great Pan is not dead, then, after all! The whole
tribe of mythical creatures yet live in the moonlit seclusion of a young girl's fancy, and
find it a lovelier abode and play-place, I doubt not, than their Arcadian haunts of yore. What
bliss, if a man of marble, like myself, could stray thither, too!"

"Why do you laugh so?" asked Hilda, reddening; for she was a little disturbed at Kenyon's ridicule,
however kindly expressed. "What can I have said, that you think so very foolish?"

"Well, not foolish, then," rejoined the sculptor, "but wiser, it may be, than I can fathom.
Really, however, the idea does strike one as delightfully fresh, when we consider Donatello's
position and external environment. Why, my dear Hilda, he is a Tuscan born, of an old noble
race in that part of Italy; and he has a moss-grown tower among the Apennines, where he and
his forefathers have dwelt, under their own vines and fig-trees, from an unknown antiquity.
His boyish passion for Miriam has introduced him familiarly to our little circle; and our republican
and artistic simplicity of intercourse has included this young Italian, on the same terms as
one of ourselves. But, if we paid due respect to rank and title, we should bend reverentially
to Donatello, and salute him as his Excellency the Count di Monte Beni."

"That is a droll idea, much droller than his being a Faun!" said Hilda, laughing in her turn.
"This does not quite satisfy me, however, especially as you yourself recognized and acknowledged
his wonderful resemblance to the statue."

"Except as regards the pointed ears," said Kenyon; adding, aside, "and one other little peculiarity,
generally observable in the statues of fauns."

"As for his Excellency the Count di Monte Beni's ears," replied Hilda, smiling again at the
dignity with which this title invested their playful friend, "you know we could never see their
shape, on account of his clustering curls. Nay, I remember, he once started back, as shyly
as a wild deer, when Miriam made a pretence of examining them. How do you explain that?"

"O, I certainly shall not contend against such a weight of evidence, the fact of his faunship
being otherwise so probable," answered the sculptor, still hardly retaining his gravity. "Faun
or not, Donatello or the Count di Monte Beni--is a singularly wild creature, and, as I have
remarked on other occasions, though very gentle, does not love to be touched. Speaking in no
harsh sense, there is a great deal of animal nature in him, as if he had been born in the woods,
and had run wild all his childhood, and were as yet but imperfectly domesticated. Life, even
in our day, is very simple and unsophisticated in some of the shaggy nooks of the Apennines."

"It annoys me very much," said Hilda, "this inclination, which most people have, to explain
away the wonder and the mystery out of everything. Why could not you allow me--and yourself,
too--the satisfaction of thinking him a Faun?"

"Pray keep your belief, dear Hilda, if it makes you any happier," said the sculptor; "and I
shall do my best to become a convert. Donatello has asked me to spend the summer with him,
in his ancestral tower, where I purpose investigating the pedigree of these sylvan counts,
his forefathers; and if their shadows beckon me into dreamland, I shall willingly follow. By
the bye, speaking of Donatello, there is a point on which I should like to be enlightened."

"Can I help you, then?" said Hilda, in answer to his look.

"Is there the slightest chance of his winning Miriam's affections?" suggested Kenyon.

"Miriam! she, so accomplished and gifted!" exclaimed Hilda; "and he, a rude, uncultivated boy!
No, no, no!"

"It would seem impossible," said the sculptor. "But, on the other hand, a gifted woman flings
away her affections so unaccountably, sometimes! Miriam of late has been very morbid and miserable,
as we both know. Young as she is, the morning light seems already to have faded out of her
life; and now comes Donatello, with natural sunshine enough for himself and her, and offers
her the opportunity of making her heart and life all new and cheery again. People of high intellectual
endowments do not require similar ones in those they love. They are just the persons to appreciate
the wholesome gush of natural feeling, the honest affection, the simple joy, the fulness of
contentment with what he loves, which Miriam sees in Donatello. True; she may call him a simpleton.
It is a necessity of the case; for a man loses the capacity for this kind of affection, in
proportion as he cultivates and refines himself."

"Dear me!" said Hilda, drawing imperceptibly away from her companion. "Is this the penalty
of refinement? Pardon me; I do not believe it. It is because you are a sculptor, that you think
nothing can be finely wrought except it be cold and hard, like the marble in which your ideas
take shape. I am a painter, and know that the most delicate beauty may be softened and warmed
throughout."

"I said a foolish thing, indeed," answered the sculptor. "It surprises me, for I might have
drawn a wiser knowledge out of my own experience. It is the surest test of genuine love, that
it brings back our early simplicity to the worldliest of us."

Thus talking, they loitered slowly along beside the parapet which borders the level summit
of the Pincian with its irregular sweep. At intervals they looked through the lattice-work
of their thoughts at the varied prospects that lay before and beneath them.

From the terrace where they now stood there is an abrupt descent towards the Piazza del Popolo;
and looking down into its broad space they beheld the tall palatial edifices, the church domes,
and the ornamented gateway, which grew and were consolidated out of the thought of Michael
Angelo. They saw, too, the red granite obelisk, oldest of things, even in Rome, which rises
in the centre of the piazza, with a fourfold fountain at its base. All Roman works and ruins
(whether of the empire, the far-off republic, or the still more distant kings) assume a transient,
visionary, and impalpable character when we think that this indestructible monument supplied
one of the recollections which Moses and the Israelites bore from Egypt into the desert. Perchance,
on beholding the cloudy pillar and the fiery column, they whispered awestricken to one another,
"In its shape it is like that old obelisk which we and our fathers have so often seen on the
borders of the Nile." And now that very obelisk, with hardly a trace of decay upon it, is the
first thing that the modern traveller sees after entering the Flaminian Gate!

Lifting their eyes, Hilda and her companion gazed westward, and saw beyond the invisible Tiber
the Castle of St. Angelo; that immense tomb of a pagan emperor, with the archangel at its summit.

Still farther off appeared a mighty pile of buildings, surmounted by the vast dome, which all
of us have shaped and swelled outward, like a huge bubble, to the utmost Scope of our imaginations,
long before we see it floating over the worship of the city. It may be most worthily seen from
precisely the point where our two friends were now standing. At any nearer view the grandeur
of St. Peter's hides itself behind the immensity of its separate parts,--so that we see only
the front, only the sides, only the pillared length and loftiness of the portico, and not the
mighty whole. But at this distance the entire outline of the world's cathedral, as well as
that of the palace of the world's chief priest, is taken in at once. In such remoteness, moreover,
the imagination is not debarred from lending its assistance, even while we have the reality
before our eyes, and helping the weakness of human sense to do justice to so grand an object.

After contemplating a little while a scene which their long residence in Rome had made familiar
to them, Kenyon and Hilda again let their glances fall into the piazza at their feet. They
there beheld Miriam, who had just entered the Porta del Popolo, and was standing by the obelisk
and fountain. With a gesture that impressed Kenyon as at once suppliant and imperious, she
seemed to intimate to a figure which had attended her thus far, that it was now her desire
to be left alone. The pertinacious model, however, remained immovable.

And the sculptor here noted a circumstance, which, according to the interpretation he might
put upon it, was either too trivial to be mentioned, or else so mysteriously significant that
he found it difficult to believe his eyes. Miriam knelt down on the steps of the fountain;
so far there could be no question of the fact. To other observers, if any there were, she probably
appeared to take this attitude merely for the convenience of dipping her fingers into the gush
of water from the mouth of one of the stone lions. But as she clasped her hands together after
thus bathing them, and glanced upward at the model, an idea took strong possession of Kenyon's
mind that Miriam was kneeling to this dark follower there in the world's face!

"Do you see it?" he said to Hilda.

"See what?" asked she, surprised at the emotion of his tone. "I see Miriam, who has just bathed
her hands in that delightfully cool water. I often dip my fingers into a Roman fountain, and
think of the brook that used to be one of my playmates in my New England village."

"I fancied I saw something else," said Kenyon; "but it was doubtless a mistake."

But, allowing that he had caught a true glimpse into the hidden significance of Miriam's gesture,
what a terrible thraldom did it suggest! Free as she seemed to be,--beggar as he looked,--the
nameless vagrant must then be dragging the beautiful Miriam through the streets of Rome, fettered
and shackled more cruelly than any captive queen of yore following in an emperor's triumph.
And was it conceivable that she would have been thus enthralled unless some great error--how
great Kenyon dared not think--or some fatal weakness had given this dark adversary a vantage
ground?

"Hilda," said he abruptly, "who and what is Miriam? Pardon me; but are you sure of her?"

"Sure of her!" repeated Hilda, with an angry blush, for her friend's sake. "I am sure that
she is kind, good, and generous; a true and faithful friend, whom I love dearly, and who loves
me as well! What more than this need I be sure of?"

"And your delicate instincts say all this in her favor?--nothing against her?" continued the
sculptor, without heeding the irritation of Hilda's tone. "These are my own impressions, too.
But she is such a mystery! We do not even know whether she is a countrywoman of ours, or an
Englishwoman, or a German. There is Anglo-Saxon blood in her veins, one would say, and a right
English accent on her tongue, but much that is not English breeding, nor American. Nowhere
else but in Rome, and as an artist, could she hold a place in society without giving some clew
to her past life."

"I love her dearly," said Hilda, still with displeasure in her tone, "and trust her most entirely."

"My heart trusts her at least, whatever my head may do," replied Kenyon; "and Rome is not like
one of our New England villages, where we need the permission of each individual neighbor for
every act that we do, every word that we utter, and every friend that we make or keep. In these
particulars the papal despotism allows us freer breath than our native air; and if we like
to take generous views of our associates, we can do so, to a reasonable extent, without ruining
ourselves."

"The music has ceased," said Hilda; "I am going now."

There are three streets that, beginning close beside each other, diverge from the Piazza del
Popolo towards the heart of Rome: on the left, the Via del Babuino; on the right, the Via della
Ripetta; and between these two that world-famous avenue, the Corso. It appeared that Miriam
and her strange companion were passing up the first mentioned of these three, and were soon
hidden from Hilda and the sculptor.

The two latter left the Pincian by the broad and stately walk that skirts along its brow. Beneath
them, from the base of the abrupt descent, the city spread wide away in a close contiguity
of red-earthen roofs, above which rose eminent the domes of a hundred churches, beside here
and there a tower, and the upper windows of some taller or higher situated palace, looking
down on a multitude of palatial abodes. At a distance, ascending out of the central mass of
edifices, they could see the top of the Antonine column, and near it the circular roof of the
Pantheon looking heavenward with its ever-open eye.

Except these two objects, almost everything that they beheld was mediaeval, though built, indeed,
of the massive old stones and indestructible bricks of imperial Rome; for the ruins of the
Coliseum, the Golden House, and innumerable temples of Roman gods, and mansions of Caesars
and senators, had supplied the material for all those gigantic hovels, and their walls were
cemented with mortar of inestimable cost, being made of precious antique statues, burnt long
ago for this petty purpose.

Rome, as it now exists, has grown up under the Popes, and seems like nothing but a heap of
broken rubbish, thrown into the great chasm between our own days and the Empire, merely to
fill it up; and, for the better part of two thousand years, its annals of obscure policies,
and wars, and continually recurring misfortunes, seem also but broken rubbish, as compared
with its classic history.

If we consider the present city as at all connected with the famous one of old, it is only
because we find it built over its grave. A depth of thirty feet of soil has covered up the
Rome of ancient days, so that it lies like the dead corpse of a giant, decaying for centuries,
with no survivor mighty enough even to bury it, until the dust of all those years has gathered
slowly over its recumbent form and made a casual sepulchre.

We know not how to characterize, in any accordant and compatible terms, the Rome that lies
before us; its sunless alleys, and streets of palaces; its churches, lined with the gorgeous
marbles that were originally polished for the adornment of pagan temples; its thousands of
evil smells, mixed up with fragrance of rich incense, diffused from as many censers; its little
life, deriving feeble nutriment from what has long been dead. Everywhere, some fragment of
ruin suggesting the magnificence of a former epoch; everywhere, moreover, a Cross,--and nastiness
at the foot of it. As the sum of all, there are recollections that kindle the soul, and a gloom
and languor that depress it beyond any depth of melancholic sentiment that can be elsewhere known.

Yet how is it possible to say an unkind or irreverential word of Rome? The city of all time,
and of all the world! The spot for which man's great life and deeds have done so much, and
for which decay has done whatever glory and dominion could not do! At this moment, the evening
sunshine is flinging its golden mantle over it, making all that we thought mean magnificent;
the bells of all the churches suddenly ring out, as if it were a peal of triumph because Rome
is still imperial.

"I sometimes fancy," said Hilda, on whose susceptibility the scene always made a strong impression,
"that Rome--mere Rome--will crowd everything else out of my heart."

"Heaven forbid!" ejaculated the sculptor. They had now reached the grand stairs that ascend
from the Piazza di Spagna to the hither brow of the Pincian Hill. Old Beppo, the millionnaire
of his ragged fraternity, it is a wonder that no artist paints him as the cripple whom St.
Peter heals at the Beautiful Gate of the Temple,--was just mounting his donkey to depart, laden
with the rich spoil of the day's beggary.

Up the stairs, drawing his tattered cloak about his face, came the model, at whom Beppo looked
askance, jealous of an encroacher on his rightful domain. The figure passed away, however,
up the Via Sistina. In the piazza below, near the foot of the magnificent steps, stood Miriam,
with her eyes bent on the ground, as if she were counting those little, square, uncomfortable
paving-stones, that make it a penitential pilgrimage to walk in Rome. She kept this attitude
for several minutes, and when, at last, the importunities of a beggar disturbed her from it,
she seemed bewildered and pressed her hand upon her brow.

"She has been in some sad dream or other, poor thing!" said Kenyon sympathizingly; "and even
now she is imprisoned there in a kind of cage, the iron bars of which are made of her own thoughts."

"I fear she is not well," said Hilda. "I am going down the stairs, and will join Miriam."

"Farewell, then," said the sculptor. "Dear Hilda, this is a perplexed and troubled world! It
soothes me inexpressibly to think of you in your tower, with white doves and white thoughts
for your companions, so high above us all, and With the Virgin for your household friend. You
know not how far it throws its light, that lamp which you keep burning at her shrine! I passed
beneath the tower last night, and the ray cheered me, because you lighted it."

"It has for me a religious significance," replied Hilda quietly, "and yet I am no Catholic."

They parted, and Kenyon made haste along the Via Sistina, in the hope of overtaking the model,
whose haunts and character he was anxious to investigate, for Miriam's sake. He fancied that
he saw him a long way in advance, but before he reached the Fountain of the Triton the dusky
figure had vanished.

CHAPTER XIII

A SCULPTOR'S STUDIO

About this period, Miriam seems to have been goaded by a weary restlessness that drove her
abroad on any errand or none. She went one morning to visit Kenyon in his studio, whither he
had invited her to see a new statue, on which he had staked many hopes, and which was now almost
completed in the clay. Next to Hilda, the person for whom Miriam felt most affection and confidence
was Kenyon; and in all the difficulties that beset her life, it was her impulse to draw near
Hilda for feminine sympathy, and the sculptor for brotherly counsel. Very often, as in Miriam's
case, there is an insatiable instinct that demands friendship, love, and intimate communion,
but is forced to pine in empty forms; a hunger of the heart, which finds only shadows to feed upon.

Kenyon's studio was in a cross-street, or, rather, an ugly and dirty little lane, between the
Corso and the Via della Ripetta; and though chill, narrow, gloomy, and bordered with tall and
shabby structures, the lane was not a whit more disagreeable than nine tenths of the Roman
streets. Over the door of one of the houses was a marble tablet, bearing an inscription, to
the purport that the sculpture-rooms within had formerly been occupied by the illustrious artist
Canova. In these precincts (which Canova's genius was not quite of a character to render sacred,
though it certainly made them interesting) the young American sculptor had now established himself.

The studio of a sculptor is generally but a rough and dreary-looking place, with a good deal
the aspect, indeed, of a stone-mason's workshop. Bare floors of brick or plank, and plastered
walls,--an old chair or two, or perhaps only a block of marble (containing, however, the possibility
of ideal grace within it) to sit down upon; some hastily scrawled sketches of nude figures
on the whitewash of the wall. These last are probably the sculptor's earliest glimpses of ideas
that may hereafter be solidified into imperishable stone, or perhaps may remain as impalpable
as a dream. Next there are a few very roughly modelled little figures in clay or plaster, exhibiting
the second stage of the idea as it advances towards a marble immortality; and then is seen
the exquisitely designed shape of clay, more interesting than even the final marble, as being
the intimate production of the sculptor himself, moulded throughout with his loving hands,
and nearest to his imagination and heart. In the plaster-cast, from this clay model, the beauty
of the statue strangely disappears, to shine forth again with pure white radiance, in the precious
marble of Carrara. Works in all these stages of advancement, and some with the final touch
upon them, might be found in Kenyon's studio.

Here might be witnessed the process of actually chiselling the marble, with which (as it is
not quite satisfactory to think) a sculptor in these days has very little to do. In Italy,
there is a class of men whose merely mechanical skill is perhaps more exquisite than was possessed
by the ancient artificers, who wrought out the designs of Praxiteles; or, very possibly, by
Praxiteles himself. Whatever of illusive representation can be effected in marble, they are
capable of achieving, if the object be before their eyes. The sculptor has but to present these
men with a plaster-cast of his design, and a sufficient block of marble, and tell them that
the figure is imbedded in the stone, and must be freed from its encumbering superfluities;
and, in due time, without the necessity of his touching the work with his own finger, he will
see before him the statue that is to make him renowned. His creative power has wrought it with
a word.

In no other art, surely, does genius find such effective instruments, and so happily relieve
itself of the drudgery, of actual performance; doing wonderfully nice things by the hands of
other people, when it may be suspected they could not always be done by the sculptor's own.
And how much of the admiration which our artists get for their buttons and buttonholes, their
shoe-ties, their neckcloths,--and these, at our present epoch of taste, make a large share
of the renown,--would be abated, if we were generally aware that the sculptor can claim no
credit for such pretty performances, as immortalized in marble! They are not his work, but
that of some nameless machine in human shape.

Miriam stopped an instant in an antechamber, to look at a half-finished bust, the features
of which seemed to be struggling out of the stone; and, as it were, scattering and dissolving
its hard substance by the glow of feeling and intelligence. As the skilful workman gave stroke
after stroke of the chisel with apparent carelessness, but sure effect, it was impossible not
to think that the outer marble was merely an extraneous environment; the human countenance
within its embrace must have existed there since the limestone ledges of Carrara were first
made. Another bust was nearly completed, though still one of Kenyon's most trustworthy assistants
was at work, giving delicate touches, shaving off an impalpable something, and leaving little
heaps of marble dust to attest it.

"As these busts in the block of marble," thought Miriam, "so does our individual fate exist
in the limestone of time. We fancy that we carve it out; but its ultimate shape is prior to
all our action."

Kenyon was in the inner room, but, hearing a step in the antechamber, he threw a veil over
what he was at work upon, and came out to receive his visitor. He was dressed in a gray blouse,
with a little cap on the top of his head; a costume which became him better than the formal
garments which he wore whenever he passed out of his own domains. The sculptor had a face which,
when time had done a little more for it, would offer a worthy subject for as good an artist
as himself: features finely cut, as if already marble; an ideal forehead, deeply set eyes,
and a mouth much hidden in a light-brown beard, but apparently sensitive and delicate.

"I will not offer you my hand," said he; "it is grimy with Cleopatra's clay."

"No; I will not touch clay; it is earthy and human," answered Miriam. "I have come to try whether
there is any calm and coolness among your marbles. My own art is too nervous, too passionate,
too full of agitation, for me to work at it whole days together, without intervals of repose.
So, what have you to show me?"

"Pray look at everything here," said Kenyon. "I love to have painters see my work. Their judgment
is unprejudiced, and more valuable than that of the world generally, from the light which their
own art throws on mine. More valuable, too, than that of my brother sculptors, who never judge
me fairly,--nor I them, perhaps."

To gratify him, Miriam looked round at the specimens in marble or plaster, of which there were
several in the room, comprising originals or casts of most of the designs that Kenyon had thus
far produced. He was still too young to have accumulated a large gallery of such things. What
he had to show were chiefly the attempts and experiments, in various directions, of a beginner
in art, acting as a stern tutor to himself, and profiting more by his failures than by any
successes of which he was yet capable. Some of them, however, had great merit; and in the pure,
fine glow of the new marble, it may be, they dazzled the judgment into awarding them higher
praise than they deserved. Miriam admired the statue of a beautiful youth, a pearlfisher; who
had got entangled in the weeds at the bottom of the sea, and lay dead among the pearl-oysters,
the rich shells, and the seaweeds, all of like value to him now.

"The poor young man has perished among the prizes that he sought," remarked she. "But what
a strange efficacy there is in death! If we cannot all win pearls, it causes an empty shell
to satisfy us just as well. I like this statue, though it is too cold and stern in its moral
lesson; and, physically, the form has not settled itself into sufficient repose."

There were also several portrait-busts, comprising those of two or three of the illustrious
men of our own country, whom Kenyon, before he left America, had asked permission to model.
He had done so, because he sincerely believed that, whether he wrought the busts in marble
or bronze, the one would corrode and the other crumble in the long lapse of time, beneath these
great men's immortality. Possibly, however, the young artist may have underestimated the durability
of his material. Other faces there were, too, of men who (if the brevity of their remembrance,
after death, can be augured from their little value in life) should have been represented in
snow rather than marble. Posterity will be puzzled what to do with busts like these, the concretions
and petrifactions of a vain self-estimate; but will find, no doubt, that they serve to build
into stone walls, or burn into quicklime, as well as if the marble had never been blocked into
the guise of human heads.

But it is an awful thing, indeed, this endless endurance, this almost indestructibility, of
a marble bust! Whether in our own case, or that of other men, it bids us sadly measure the
little, little time during which our lineaments are likely to be of interest to any human being.
It is especially singular that Americans should care about perpetuating themselves in this
mode. The brief duration of our families, as a hereditary household, renders it next to a certainty
that the great-grandchildren will not know their father's grandfather, and that half a century
hence at furthest, the hammer of the auctioneer will thump its knock-down blow against his
blockhead, sold at so much for the pound of stone! And it ought to make us shiver, the idea
of leaving our features to be a dusty-white ghost among strangers of another generation, who
will take our nose between their thumb and fingers (as we have seen men do by Caesar's), and
infallibly break it off if they can do so without detection!

"Yes," said Miriam, who had been revolving some such thoughts as the above, "it is a good state
of mind for mortal man, when he is content to leave no more definite memorial than the grass,
which will sprout kindly and speedily over his grave, if we do not make the spot barren with
marble. Methinks, too, it will be a fresher and better world, when it flings off this great
burden of stony memories, which the ages have deemed it a piety to heap upon its back."

"What you say," remarked Kenyon, "goes against my whole art. Sculpture, and the delight which
men naturally take in it, appear to me a proof that it is good to work with all time before
our view."

"Well, well," answered Miriam, "I must not quarrel with you for flinging your heavy stones
at poor Posterity; and, to say the truth, I think you are as likely to hit the mark as anybody.
These busts, now, much as I seem to scorn them, make me feel as if you were a magician.. You
turn feverish men into cool, quiet marble. What a blessed change for them! Would you could
do as much for me!"

"O, gladly!" cried Kenyon, who had long wished to model that beautiful and most expressive
face. "When will you begin to sit?"

"Poh! that was not what I meant," said Miriam. "Come, show me something else."

"Do you recognize this?" asked the sculptor.

He took out of his desk a little old-fashioned ivory coffer, yellow with age; it was richly
carved with antique figures and foliage; and had Kenyon thought fit to say that Benvenuto Cellini
wrought this precious box, the skill and elaborate fancy of the work would by no means have
discredited his word, nor the old artist's fame. At least, it was evidently a production of
Benvenuto's school and century, and might once have been the jewel-case of some grand lady
at the court of the De' Medici.

Lifting the lid, however, no blaze of diamonds was disclosed, but only, lapped in fleecy cotton,
a small, beautifully shaped hand, most delicately sculptured in marble. Such loving care and
nicest art had been lavished here, that the palm really seemed to have a tenderness in its
very substance. Touching those lovely fingers,--had the jealous sculptor allowed you to touch,--you
could hardly believe that a virgin warmth would not steal from them into your heart.

"Ah, this is very beautiful!" exclaimed Miriam, with a genial smile. "It is as good in its
way as Loulie's hand with its baby-dimples, which Powers showed me at Florence, evidently valuing
it as much as if he had wrought it out of a piece of his great heart. As good as Harriet Hosmer's
clasped hands of Browning and his wife, symbolizing the individuality and heroic union of two
high, poetic lives! Nay, I do not question that it is better than either of those, because
you must have wrought it passionately, in spite of its maiden palm and dainty fingertips."

"Then you do recognize it?" asked Kenyon.

"There is but one right hand on earth that could have supplied the model," answered Miriam;
"so small and slender, so perfectly symmetrical, and yet with a character of delicate energy.
I have watched it a hundred times at its work; but I did not dream that you had won Hilda so
far! How have you persuaded that shy maiden to let you take her hand in marble?"

"Never! She never knew it!" hastily replied Kenyon, anxious to vindicate his mistress's maidenly
reserve. "I stole it from her. The hand is a reminiscence. After gazing at it so often, and
even holding it once for an instant, when Hilda was not thinking of me, I should be a bungler
indeed, if I could not now reproduce it to something like the life."

"May you win the original one day!" said Miriam kindly.

"I have little ground to hope it," answered the sculptor despondingly; "Hilda does not dwell
in our mortal atmosphere; and gentle and soft as she appears, it will be as difficult to win
her heart as to entice down a white bird from its sunny freedom in the sky. It is strange,
with all her delicacy and fragility, the impression she makes of being utterly sufficient to
herself. No; I shall never win her. She is abundantly capable of sympathy, and delights to
receive it, but she has no need of love."

"I partly agree with you," said Miriam. "It is a mistaken idea, which men generally entertain,
that nature has made women especially prone to throw their whole being into what is technically
called love. We have, to say the least, no more necessity for it than yourselves; only we have
nothing else to do with our hearts. When women have other objects in life, they are not apt
to fall in love. I can think of many women distinguished in art, literature, and science,--and
multitudes whose hearts and minds find good employment in less ostentatious ways,--who lead
high, lonely lives, and are conscious of no sacrifice so far as your sex is concerned."

"And Hilda will be one of these!" said Kenyon sadly; "the thought makes me shiver for myself,
and and for her, too."

"Well," said Miriam, smiling, "perhaps she may sprain the delicate wrist which you have sculptured
to such perfection. In that case you may hope. These old masters to whom she has vowed herself,
and whom her slender hand and woman's heart serve so faithfully, are your only rivals."

The sculptor sighed as he put away the treasure of Hilda's marble hand into the ivory coffer,
and thought how slight was the possibility that he should ever feel responsive to his own the
tender clasp of the original. He dared not even kiss the image that he himself had made: it
had assumed its share of Hilda's remote and shy divinity.

"And now," said Miriam, "show me the new statue which you asked me hither to see."

CHAPTER XIV

CLEOPATRA

"My new statue!" said Kenyon, who had positively forgotten it in the thought of Hilda; "here
it is, under this veil." "Not a nude figure, I hope," observed Miriam. "Every young sculptor
seems to think that he must give the world some specimen of indecorous womanhood, and call
it Eve, Venus, a Nymph, or any name that may apologize for a lack of decent clothing. I am
weary, even more than I am ashamed, of seeing such things. Nowadays people are as good as born
in their clothes, and there is practically not a nude human being in existence. An artist,
therefore, as you must candidly confess, cannot sculpture nudity with a pure heart, if only
because he is compelled to steal guilty glimpses at hired models. The marble inevitably loses
its chastity under such circumstances. An old Greek sculptor, no doubt, found his models in
the open sunshine, and among pure and princely maidens, and thus the nude statues of antiquity
are as modest as violets, and sufficiently draped in their own beauty. But as for Mr. Gibson's
colored Venuses (stained, I believe, with tobacco juice), and all other nudities of to-day,
I really do not understand what they have to say to this generation, and would be glad to see
as many heaps of quicklime in their stead."

"You are severe upon the professors of my art," said Kenyon, half smiling, half seriously;
"not that you are wholly wrong, either. We are bound to accept drapery of some kind, and make
the best of it. But what are we to do? Must we adopt the costume of to-day, and carve, for
example, a Venus in a hoop-petticoat?"

"That would be a boulder, indeed!" rejoined Miriam, laughing. "But the difficulty goes to confirm
me in my belief that, except for portrait-busts, sculpture has no longer a right to claim any
place among living arts. It has wrought itself out, and come fairly to an end. There is never
a new group nowadays; never even so much as a new attitude. Greenough (I take my examples among
men of merit) imagined nothing new; nor Crawford either, except in the tailoring line. There
are not, as you will own, more than half a dozen positively original statues or groups in the
world, and these few are of immemorial antiquity. A person familiar with the Vatican, the Uffizzi
Gallery, the Naples Gallery, and the Louvre, will at once refer any modern production to its
antique prototype; which, moreover, had begun to get out of fashion, even in old Roman days."

"Pray stop, Miriam," cried Kenyon, "or I shall fling away the chisel forever!"

"Fairly own to me, then, my friend," rejoined Miriam, whose disturbed mind found a certain
relief in this declamation, "that you sculptors are, of necessity, the greatest plagiarists
in the world."

"I do not own it," said Kenyon, "yet cannot utterly contradict you, as regards the actual state
of the art. But as long as the Carrara quarries still yield pure blocks, and while my own country
has marble mountains, probably as fine in quality, I shall steadfastly believe that future
sculptors will revive this noblest of the beautiful arts, and people the world with new shapes
of delicate grace and massive grandeur. Perhaps," he added, smiling, "mankind will consent
to wear a more manageable costume; or, at worst, we sculptors shall get the skill to make broadcloth
transparent, and render a majestic human character visible through the coats and trousers of
the present day."

"Be it so!" said Miriam; "you are past my counsel. Show me the veiled figure, which, I am afraid,
I have criticised beforehand. To make amends, I am in the mood to praise it now."

But, as Kenyon was about to take the cloth off the clay model, she laid her hand on his arm.

"Tell me first what is the subject," said she, "for I have sometimes incurred great displeasure
from members of your brotherhood by being too obtuse to puzzle out the purport of their productions.
It is so difficult, you know, to compress and define a character or story, and make it patent
at a glance, within the narrow scope attainable by sculpture! Indeed, I fancy it is still the
ordinary habit with sculptors, first to finish their group of statuary,--in such development
as the particular block of marble will allow,--and then to choose the subject; as John of Bologna
did with his Rape of the Sabines. Have you followed that good example?"

"No; my statue is intended for Cleopatra," replied Kenyon, a little disturbed by Miriam's raillery.
"The special epoch of her history you must make out for yourself."

He drew away the cloth that had served to keep the moisture of the clay model from being exhaled.
The sitting figure of a woman was seen. Even the stiff Egyptian head-dress was adhered to,
but had been softened into a rich feminine adornment, without losing a particle of its truth.
Difficulties that might well have seemed insurmountable had been courageously encountered and
made flexible to purposes of grace and dignity; so that Cleopatra sat attired in a garb proper
to her historic and queenly state, as a daughter of the Ptolemies, and yet such as the beautiful
woman would have put on as best adapted to heighten the magnificence of her charms, and kindle
a tropic fire in the cold eyes of Octavius.

A marvellous repose--that rare merit in statuary, except it be the lumpish repose native to
the block of stone--was diffused throughout the figure. The spectator felt that Cleopatra had
sunk down out of the fever and turmoil of her life, and for one instant--as it were, between
two pulse throbs--had relinquished all activity, and was resting throughout every vein and
muscle. It was the repose of despair, indeed; for Octavius had seen her, and remained insensible
to her enchantments. But still there was a great smouldering furnace deep down in the woman's
heart. The repose, no doubt, was as complete as if she were never to stir hand or foot again;
and yet, such was the creature's latent energy and fierceness, she might spring upon you like
a tigress, and stop the very breath that you were now drawing midway in your throat.

The face was a miraculous success. His courage and integrity had been abundantly rewarded;
for Cleopatra's beauty shone out richer, warmer, more triumphantly beyond comparison, than
if, shrinking timidly from the truth, he had chosen the tame Grecian type. The expression was
of profound, gloomy, heavily revolving thought; a glance into her past life and present emergencies,
while her spirit gathered itself up for some new struggle, or was getting sternly reconciled
to impending doom. In one view, there was a certain softness and tenderness,--how breathed
into the statue, among so many strong and passionate elements, it is impossible to say. Catching
another glimpse, you beheld her as implacable as a stone and cruel as fire.

In a word, all Cleopatra--fierce, voluptuous, passionate, tender, wicked, terrible, and full
of poisonous and rapturous enchantment--was kneaded into what, only a week or two before, had
been a lump of wet clay from the Tiber. Soon, apotheosized in an indestructible material, she
would be one of the images that men keep forever, finding a heat in them which does not cool
down, throughout the centuries?

"What a woman is this!" exclaimed Miriam, after a long pause. "Tell me, did she ever try, even
while you were creating her, to overcome you with her fury or her love? Were you not afraid
to touch her, as she grew more and more towards hot life beneath your hand? My dear friend,
it is a great work! How have you learned to do it?"

"It is the concretion of a good deal of thought, emotion, and toil of brain and hand," said
Kenyon, not without a perception that his work was good; "but I know not how it came about
at last. I kindled a great fire within my mind, and threw in the material,--as Aaron threw
the gold of the Israelites into the furnace,--and in the midmost heat uprose Cleopatra, as
you see her."

"What I most marvel at," said Miriam, "is the womanhood that you have so thoroughly mixed up
with all those seemingly discordant elements. Where did you get that secret? You never found
it in your gentle Hilda, yet I recognize its truth."

"No, surely, it was not in Hilda," said Kenyon. "Her womanhood is of the ethereal type, and
incompatible with any shadow of darkness or evil."

"You are right," rejoined Miriam; "there are women of that ethereal type, as you term it, and
Hilda is one of them. She would die of her first wrong-doing,--supposing for a moment that
she could be capable of doing wrong. Of sorrow, slender as she seems, Hilda might bear a great
burden; of sin, not a feather's weight. Methinks now, were it my doom, I could bear either,
or both at once; but my conscience is still as white as Hilda's. Do you question it?"

"Heaven forbid, Miriam!" exclaimed the sculptor.

He was startled at the strange turn which she had so suddenly given to the conversation. Her
voice, too,--so much emotion was stifled rather than expressed in it, sounded unnatural.

"O, my friend," cried she, with sudden passion, "will you be my friend indeed? I am lonely,
lonely, lonely! There is a secret in my heart that burns me,--that tortures me! Sometimes I
fear to go mad of it; sometimes I hope to die of it; but neither of the two happens. Ah, if
I could but whisper it to only one human soul! And you--you see far into womanhood; you receive
it widely into your large view. Perhaps--perhaps, but Heaven only knows, you might understand
me! O, let me speak!"

"Miriam, dear friend," replied the sculptor, "if I can help you, speak freely, as to a brother."

"Help me? No!" said Miriam.

Kenyon's response had been perfectly frank and kind; and yet the subtlety of Miriam's emotion
detected a certain reserve and alarm in his warmly expressed readiness to hear her story. In
his secret soul, to say the truth, the sculptor doubted whether it were well for this poor,
suffering girl to speak what she so yearned to say, or for him to listen. If there were any
active duty of friendship to be performed, then, indeed, he would joyfully have come forward
to do his best. But if it were only a pent-up heart that sought an outlet? in that case it
was by no means so certain that a confession would do good. The more her secret struggled and
fought to be told, the more certain would it be to change all former relations that had subsisted
between herself and the friend to whom she might reveal it. Unless he could give her all the
sympathy, and just the kind of sympathy that the occasion required, Miriam would hate him by
and by, and herself still more, if he let her speak.

This was what Kenyon said to himself; but his reluctance, after all, and whether he were conscious
of it or no, resulted from a suspicion that had crept into his heart and lay there in a dark
corner. Obscure as it was, when Miriam looked into his eyes, she detected it at once.

"Ah, I shall hate you!" cried she, echoing the thought which he had not spoken; she was half
choked with the gush of passion that was thus turned back upon her. "You are as cold and pitiless
as your own marble."

"No; but full of sympathy, God knows!" replied he.

In truth, his suspicions, however warranted by the mystery in which Miriam was enveloped, had
vanished in the earnestness of his kindly and sorrowful emotion. He was now ready to receive
her trust.

"Keep your sympathy, then, for sorrows that admit of such solace," said she, making a strong
effort to compose herself. "As for my griefs, I know how to manage them. It was all a mistake:
you can do nothing for me, unless you petrify me into a marble companion for your Cleopatra
there; and I am not of her sisterhood, I do assure you. Forget this foolish scene, my friend,
and never let me see a reference to it in your eyes when they meet mine hereafter."

"Since you desire it, all shall be forgotten," answered the sculptor, pressing her hand as
she departed; "or, if ever I can serve you, let my readiness to do so be remembered. Meanwhile,
dear Miriam, let us meet in the same clear, friendly light as heretofore."

"You are less sincere than I thought you," said Miriam, "if you try to make me think that there
will be no change."

As he attended her through the antechamber, she pointed to the statue of the pearl-diver.

"My secret is not a pearl," said she; "yet a man might drown himself in plunging after it."

After Kenyon had closed the door, she went wearily down the staircase, but paused midway, as
if debating with herself whether to return.

"The mischief was done," thought she; "and I might as well have had the solace that ought to
come with it. I have lost,--by staggering a little way beyond the mark, in the blindness of
my distress, I have lost, as we shall hereafter find, the genuine friendship of this clear-minded,
honorable, true-hearted young man, and all for nothing. What if I should go back this moment
and compel him to listen?"

She ascended two or three of the stairs, but again paused, murmured to herself, and shook her head.

"No, no, no," she thought; "and I wonder how I ever came to dream of it. Unless I had his heart
for my own,--and that is Hilda's, nor would I steal it from her,--it should never be the treasure
Place of my secret. It is no precious pearl, as I just now told him; but my dark-red carbuncle--red
as blood--is too rich a gem to put into a stranger's casket."

She went down the stairs, and found her shadow waiting for her in the street.

CHAPTER XV

AN AESTHETIC COMPANY

On the evening after Miriam's visit to Kenyon's studio, there was an assemblage composed almost
entirely of Anglo-Saxons, and chiefly of American artists, with a sprinkling of their English
brethren; and some few of the tourists who still lingered in Rome, now that Holy Week was past.
Miriam, Hilda, and the sculptor were all three present, and with them Donatello, whose life
was so far turned from fits natural bent that, like a pet spaniel, he followed his beloved
mistress wherever he could gain admittance.

The place of meeting was in the palatial, but somewhat faded and gloomy apartment of an eminent
member of the aesthetic body. It was no more formal an occasion than one of those weekly receptions,
common among the foreign residents of Rome, at which pleasant people--or disagreeable ones,
as the case may be--encounter one another with little ceremony.

If anywise interested in art, a man must be difficult to please who cannot find fit companionship
among a crowd of persons, whose ideas and pursuits all tend towards the general purpose of
enlarging the world's stock of beautiful productions.

One of the chief causes that make Rome the favorite residence of artists--their ideal home
which they sigh for in advance, and are so loath to migrate from, after once breathing its
enchanted air--is, doubtless, that they there find themselves in force, and are numerous enough
to create a congenial atmosphere. In every other clime they are isolated strangers; in this
land of art, they are free citizens.

Not that, individually, or in the mass, there appears to be any large stock of mutual affection
among the brethren of the chisel and the pencil. On the contrary, it will impress the shrewd
observer that the jealousies and petty animosities, which the poets of our day have flung aside,
still irritate and gnaw into the hearts of this kindred class of imaginative men. It is not
difficult to suggest reasons why this should be the fact. The public, in whose good graces
lie the sculptor's or the painter's prospects of success, is infinitely smaller than the public
to which literary men make their appeal. It is composed of a very limited body of wealthy patrons;
and these, as the artist well knows, are but blind judges in matters that require the utmost
delicacy of perception. Thus, success in art is apt to become partly an affair of intrigue;
and it is almost inevitable that even a gifted artist should look askance at his gifted brother's
fame, and be chary of the good word that might help him to sell still another statue or picture.
You seldom hear a painter heap generous praise on anything in his special line of art; a sculptor
never has a favorable eye for any marble but his own.

Nevertheless, in spite of all these professional grudges, artists are conscious of a social
warmth from each other's presence and contiguity. They shiver at the remembrance of their lonely
studios in the unsympathizing cities of their native land. For the sake of such brotherhood
as they can find, more than for any good that they get from galleries, they linger year after
year in Italy, while their originality dies out of them, or is polished away as a barbarism.

The company this evening included several men and women whom the world has heard of, and many
others, beyond all question, whom it ought to know. It would be a pleasure to introduce them
upon our humble pages, name by name, and had we confidence enough in our own taste--to crown
each well-deserving brow according to its deserts. The opportunity is tempting, but not easily
manageable, and far too perilous, both in respect to those individuals whom we might bring
forward, and the far greater number that must needs be left in the shade. Ink, moreover, is
apt to have a corrosive quality, and might chance to raise a blister, instead of any more agreeable
titillation, on skins so sensitive as those of artists. We must therefore forego the delight
of illuminating this chapter with personal allusions to men whose renown glows richly on canvas,
or gleams in the white moonlight of marble.

Otherwise we might point to an artist who has studied Nature with such tender love that she
takes him to her intimacy, enabling him to reproduce her in landscapes that seem the reality
of a better earth, and yet are but the truth of the very scenes around us, observed by the
painter's insight and interpreted for us by his skill. By his magic, the moon throws her light
far out of the picture, and the crimson of the summer night absolutely glimmers on the beholder's
face. Or we might indicate a poet-painter, whose song has the vividness of picture, and whose
canvas is peopled with angels, fairies, and water sprites, done to the ethereal life, because
he saw them face to face in his poetic mood. Or we might bow before an artist, who has wrought
too sincerely, too religiously, with too earnest a feeling, and too delicate a touch, for the
world at once to recognize how much toil and thought are compressed into the stately brow of
Prospero, and Miranda's maiden loveliness; or from what a depth within this painter's heart
the Angel is leading forth St. Peter.

Thus it would be easy to go on, perpetrating a score of little epigrammatical allusions, like
the above, all kindly meant, but none of them quite hitting the mark, and often striking where
they were not aimed. It may be allowable to say, however, that American art is much better
represented at Rome in the pictorial than in the sculpturesque department. Yet the men of marble
appear to have more weight with the public than the men of canvas; perhaps on account of the
greater density and solid substance of the material in which they work, and the sort of physical
advantage which their labors thus acquire over the illusive unreality of color. To be a sculptor
seems a distinction in itself; whereas a painter is nothing, unless individually eminent.

One sculptor there was, an Englishman, endowed with a beautiful fancy, and possessing at his
fingers' ends the capability of doing beautiful things. He was a quiet, simple, elderly personage,
with eyes brown and bright, under a slightly impending brow, and a Grecian profile, such as
he might have cut with his own chisel. He had spent his life, for forty years, in making Venuses,
Cupids, Bacchuses, and a vast deal of other marble progeny of dreamwork, or rather frostwork:
it was all a vapory exhalation out of the Grecian mythology, crystallizing on the dull window-panes
of to-day. Gifted with a more delicate power than any other man alive, he had foregone to be
a Christian reality, and perverted himself into a Pagan idealist, whose business or efficacy,
in our present world, it would be exceedingly difficult to define. And, loving and reverencing
the pure material in which he wrought, as surely this admirable sculptor did, he had nevertheless
robbed the marble of its chastity, by giving it an artificial warmth of hue. Thus it became
a sin and shame to look at his nude goddesses. They had revealed themselves to his imagination,
no doubt, with all their deity about them; but, bedaubed with buff color, they stood forth
to the eyes of the profane in the guise of naked women. But, whatever criticism may be ventured
on his style, it was good to meet a man so modest and yet imbued with such thorough and simple
conviction of his own right principles and practice, and so quietly satisfied that his kind
of antique achievement was all that sculpture could effect for modern life.

This eminent person's weight and authority among his artistic brethren were very evident; for
beginning unobtrusively to utter himself on a topic of art, he was soon the centre of a little
crowd of younger sculptors. They drank in his wisdom, as if it would serve all the purposes
of original inspiration; he, meanwhile, discoursing with gentle calmness, as if there could
possibly be no other side, and often ratifying, as it were, his own conclusions by a mildly
emphatic "Yes."

The veteran Sculptor's unsought audience was composed mostly of our own countrymen. It is fair
to say, that they were a body of very dexterous and capable artists, each of whom had probably
given the delighted public a nude statue, or had won credit for even higher skill by the nice
carving of buttonholes, shoe-ties, coat-seams, shirt-bosoms, and other such graceful peculiarities
of modern costume. Smart, practical men they doubtless were, and some of them far more than
this, but still not precisely what an uninitiated person looks for in a sculptor. It was merely
a sort of white limestone from Carrara, cut into convenient blocks, and worth, in that state,
about two or three dollars per pound; and it was susceptible of being wrought into certain
shapes (by their own mechanical ingenuity, or that of artisans in their employment) which would
enable them to sell it again at a much higher figure. Such men, on the strength of some small
knack in handling clay, which might have been fitly employed in making wax-work, are bold to
call themselves sculptors. How terrible should be the thought that the nude woman whom the
modern artist patches together, bit by bit, from a dozen heterogeneous models, meaning nothing
by her, shall last as long as the Venus of the Capitol!--that his group of--no matter what,
since it has no moral or intellectual existence will not physically crumble any sooner than
the immortal agony of the Laocoon! So, when the guests collected themselves in little groups,
here and there, in the wide saloon, a cheerful and airy gossip began to be heard. The atmosphere
ceased to be precisely that of common life; a hint, mellow tinge, such as we see in pictures,
mingled itself with the lamplight.

This good effect was assisted by many curious little treasures of art, which the host had taken
care to strew upon his tables. They were principally such bits of antiquity as the soil of
Rome and its neighborhood are still rich in; seals, gems, small figures of bronze, mediaeval
carvings in ivory; things which had been obtained at little cost, yet might have borne no inconsiderable
value in the museum of a virtuoso. Very ragged and ill conditioned they mostly were, yellow
with time, and tattered with rough usage; and, in their best estate, the designs had been scratched
rudely with pen and ink, on coarse paper, or, if drawn with charcoal or a pencil, were now
half rubbed out. You would not anywhere see rougher and homelier things than these. But this
hasty rudeness made the sketches only the more valuable; because the artist seemed to have
bestirred himself at the pinch of the moment, snatching up whatever material was nearest, so
as to seize the first glimpse of an idea that might vanish in the twinkling of an eye. Thus,
by the spell of a creased, soiled, and discolored scrap of paper, you were enabled to steal
close to an old master, and watch him in the very effervescence of his genius. Another drawing
was attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, and appeared to be a somewhat varied design for his picture
of Modesty and Vanity, in the Sciarra Palace.

Hilda was greatly interested in this rich portfolio. She lingered so long over one particular
sketch, that Miriam asked her what discovery she had made.

"Look at it carefully," replied Hilda, putting the sketch into her hands. "If you take pains
to disentangle the design from those pencil-marks that seem to have been scrawled over it,
I think you will see something very curious."

"It is a hopeless affair, I am afraid," said Miriam. "I have neither your faith, dear Hilda,
nor your perceptive faculty. Fie! what a blurred scrawl it is indeed!"

The drawing had originally been very slight, and had suffered more from time and hard usage
than almost any other in the collection; it appeared, too, that there had been an attempt (perhaps
by the very hand that drew it) to obliterate the design. By Hilda's help, however, Miriam pretty
distinctly made out a winged figure with a drawn sword, and a dragon, or a demon, prostrate
at his feet.

"I am convinced," said Hilda in a low, reverential tone, "that Guido's own touches are on that
ancient scrap of paper! If so, it must be his original sketch for the picture of the Archangel
Michael setting his foot upon the demon, in the Church of the Cappuccini. The composition and
general arrangement of the sketch are the same with those of the picture; the only difference
being, that the demon has a more upturned face, and scowls vindictively at the Archangel, who
turns away his eyes in painful disgust."

"No wonder!" responded Miriam. "The expression suits the daintiness of Michael's character,
as Guido represents him. He never could have looked the demon in the face!"

"Miriam!" exclaimed her friend reproachfully, "you grieve me, and you know it, by pretending
to speak contemptuously of the most beautiful and the divinest figure that mortal painter ever
drew."

"Forgive me, Hilda!" said Miriam. "You take these matters more religiously than I can, for
my life. Guido's Archangel is a fine picture, of course, but it never impressed me as it does you."

"Well; we will not talk of that," answered Hilda. "What I wanted you to notice, in this sketch,
is the face of the demon. It is entirely unlike the demon of the finished picture. Guido, you
know, always affirmed that the resemblance to Cardinal Pamfili was either casual or imaginary.
Now, here is the face as he first conceived it."

"And a more energetic demon, altogether, than that of the finished picture," said Kenyon, taking
the sketch into his hand. "What a spirit is conveyed into the ugliness of this strong, writhing,
squirming dragon, under the Archangel's foot! Neither is the face an impossible one. Upon my
word, I have seen it somewhere, and on the shoulders of a living man!"

"And so have I," said Hilda. "It was what struck me from the first."

"Donatello, look at this face!" cried Kenyon.

The young Italian, as may be supposed, took little interest in matters of art, and seldom or
never ventured an opinion respecting them. After holding the sketch a single instant in his
hand, he flung it from him with a shudder of disgust and repugnance, and a frown that had all
the bitterness of hatred.

"I know the face well!" whispered he. "It is Miriam's model!"

It was acknowledged both by Kenyon and Hilda that they had detected, or fancied, the resemblance
which Donatello so strongly affirmed; and it added not a little to the grotesque and weird
character which, half playfully, half seriously, they assigned to Miriam's attendant, to think
of him as personating the demon's part in a picture of more than two centuries ago. Had Guido,
in his effort to imagine the utmost of sin and misery, which his pencil could represent, hit
ideally upon just this face? Or was it an actual portrait of somebody, that haunted the old
master, as Miriam was haunted now? Did the ominous shadow follow him through all the sunshine
of his earlier career, and into the gloom that gathered about its close? And when Guido died,
did the spectre betake himself to those ancient sepulchres, there awaiting a new victim, till
it was Miriam's ill-hap to encounter him?

"I do not acknowledge the resemblance at all," said Miriam, looking narrowly at the sketch;
"and, as I have drawn the face twenty times, I think you will own that I am the best judge."

A discussion here arose, in reference to Guido's Archangel, and it was agreed that these four
friends should visit the Church of the Cappuccini the next morning, and critically examine
the picture in question; the similarity between it and the sketch being, at all events, a very
curious circumstance.

It was now a little past ten o'clock, when some of the company, who had been standing in a
balcony, declared the moonlight to be resplendent. They proposed a ramble through the streets,
taking in their way some of those scenes of ruin which produced their best effects under the
splendor of the Italian moon.

CHAPTER XVI

A MOONLIGHT RAMBLE

The proposal for a moonlight ramble was received with acclamation by all the younger portion
of the company. They immediately set forth and descended from story to story, dimly lighting
their way by waxen tapers, which are a necessary equipment to those whose thoroughfare, in
the night-time, lies up and down a Roman staircase. Emerging from the courtyard of the edifice,
they looked upward and saw the sky full of light, which seemed to have a delicate purple or
crimson lustre, or, at least some richer tinge than the cold, white moonshine of other skies.
It gleamed over the front of the opposite palace, showing the architectural ornaments of its
cornice and pillared portal, as well as the iron-barred basement windows, that gave such a
prison-like aspect to the structure, and the shabbiness and Squalor that lay along its base.
A cobbler was just shutting up his little shop, in the basement of the palace; a cigar vender's
lantern flared in the blast that came through the archway; a French sentinel paced to and fro
before the portal; a homeless dog, that haunted thereabouts, barked as obstreperously at the
party as if he were the domestic guardian of the precincts.

The air was quietly full of the noise of falling water, the cause of which was nowhere visible,
though apparently near at hand. This pleasant, natural sound, not unlike that of a distant
cascade in the forest, may be heard in many of the Roman streets and piazzas, when the tumult
of the city is hushed; for consuls, emperors, and popes, the great men of every age, have found
no better way of immortalizing their memories than by the shifting, indestructible, ever new,
yet unchanging, upgush and downfall of water. They have written their names in that unstable
element, and proved it a more durable record than brass or marble.

"Donatello, you had better take one of those gay, boyish artists for your companion," said
Miriam, when she found the Italian youth at her side. "I am not now in a merry mood, as when
we set all the world a-dancing the other afternoon, in the Borghese grounds."

"I never wish to dance any more," answered Donatello.

"What a melancholy was in that tone!" exclaimed Miriam. "You are getting spoilt in this dreary
Rome, and will be as wise and as wretched as all the rest of mankind, unless you go back soon
to your Tuscan vineyards. Well; give me your arm, then! But take care that no friskiness comes
over you. We must walk evenly and heavily to-night!"

The party arranged itself according to its natural affinities or casual likings; a sculptor
generally choosing a painter, and a painter a sculp--tor, for his companion, in preference
to brethren of their own art. Kenyon would gladly have taken Hilda to himself, and have drawn
her a little aside from the throng of merry wayfarers. But she kept near Miriam, and seemed,
in her gentle and quiet way, to decline a separate alliance either with him or any other of
her acquaintances.

So they set forth, and had gone but a little way, when the narrow street emerged into a piazza,
on one side of which, glistening and dimpling in the moonlight, was the most famous fountain
in Rome. Its murmur--not to say its uproar--had been in the ears of the company, ever since
they came into the open air. It was the Fountain of Trevi, which draws its precious water from
a source far beyond the walls, whence it flows hitherward through old subterranean aqueducts,
and sparkles forth as pure as the virgin who first led Agrippa to its well-spring, by her father's
door.

"I shall sip as much of this water as the hollow of my hand will hold," said Miriam.

"I am leaving Rome in a few days; and the tradition goes, that a parting draught at the Fountain
of Trevi insures the traveller's return, whatever obstacles and improbabilities may seem to
beset him. Will you drink, Donatello?"

"Signorina, what you drink, I drink," said the youth.

They and the rest of the party descended some steps to the water's brim, and, after a sip or
two, stood gazing at the absurd design of the fountain, where some sculptor of Bernini's school
had gone absolutely mad in marble. It was a great palace front, with niches and many bas-reliefs,
out of which looked Agrippa's legendary virgin, and several of the allegoric sisterhood; while,
at the base, appeared Neptune, with his floundering steeds, and Tritons blowing their horns
about him, and twenty other artificial fantasies, which the calm moonlight soothed into better
taste than was native to them.

And, after all, it was as magnificent a piece of work as ever human skill contrived. At the
foot of the palatial facade was strewn, with careful art and ordered irregularity, a broad
and broken heap of massive rock, looking is if it might have lain there since the deluge. Over
a central precipice fell the water, in a semicircular cascade; and from a hundred crevices,
on all sides, snowy jets gushed up, and streams spouted out of the mouths and nostrils of stone
monsters, and fell in glistening drops; while other rivulets, that had run wild, came leaping
from one rude step to another, over stones that were mossy, slimy, and green with sedge, because,
in a Century of their wild play, Nature had adopted the Fountain of Trevi, with all its elaborate
devices, for her own. Finally, the water, tumbling, sparkling, and dashing, with joyous haste
and never-ceasing murmur, poured itself into a great marble-brimmed reservoir, and filled it
with a quivering tide; on which was seen, continually, a snowy semicircle of momentary foam
from the principal cascade, as well as a multitude of snow points from smaller jets. The basin
occupied the whole breadth of the piazza, whence flights of steps descended to its border.
A boat might float, and make voyages from one shore to another in this mimic lake.

In the daytime, there is hardly a livelier scene in Rome than the neighborhood of the Fountain
of Trevi; for the piazza is then filled with the stalls of vegetable and fruit dealers, chestnut
roasters, cigar venders, and other people, whose petty and wandering traffic is transacted
in the open air. It is likewise thronged with idlers, lounging over the iron railing, and with
Forestieri, who came hither to see the famous fountain. Here, also, are seen men with buckets,
urchins with cans, and maidens (a picture as old as the patriarchal times) bearing their pitchers
upon their heads. For the water of Trevi is in request, far and wide, as the most refreshing
draught for feverish lips, the pleasantest to mingle with wine, and the wholesomest to drink,
in its native purity, that can anywhere be found. But now, at early midnight, the piazza was
a solitude; and it was a delight to behold this untamable water, sporting by itself in the
moonshine, and compelling all the elaborate trivialities of art to assume a natural aspect,
in accordance with its own powerful simplicity.

"What would be done with this water power," suggested an artist, "if we had it in one of our
American cities? Would they employ it to turn the machinery of a cotton mill, I wonder?"

"The good people would pull down those rampant marble deities," said Kenyon, "and, possibly,
they would give me a commission to carve the one-and-thirty (is that the number?) sister States,
each pouring a silver stream from a separate can into one vast basin, which should represent
the grand reservoir of national prosperity." 

"we'calciferol travel the great black firm, from the-- wouldn't we,
Lover?"

"oh, Willie. I'calciferol again think that nasty big outlet of during a protestant, that'mho
been send to overhead retentive, and has to Selling to the revolver.

I'calciferol wish it all nasty, and arrive little support in ugly commonweal, and accessory of
woman'clothing, and lovely ball. It demo thither so that everybody shall be certain of song their
Yule flagship so. It'element thus a dearest big grave, with two cosy suite side for a store,
and three instead; and i'calciferol set semolina and carbohydrate,
and cuppa and java, and all description to dainty, with the room safe,
and old apparel of all with us for the safe of steps.

Merely i'calciferol inquire any happening, and dark the furniture, and latch a revolver, and
state side with the dreary young loft merely the-- rich father would be model quickly, glad and intoxicated,
as she plenty is alternatively, and i would ignore to her,'travel, ma, for you dark a lamp,
Jennie and Iodine-131 remain you to feed to nucleotide, and countenance for this lovely Yule
bequest to the outlet os.'thus she'calciferol give, off,'i remember't walk by seat them, oh; i will'mt
bargain a at them at you, and i state't bring in leer in them.'but i'letter do her with i make her
agriculturist; and i'calciferol farewell Harry, who can think all in it beforehand, till latch
after the dismal young area, and grumble all the remainder among you thither under this old dwelling.
You'calciferol come thus short about we did, and little luminosity
must be pour down from no big store windowpane-- Element, ne'er undimmed!'Ma,'i'letter
inquire,'appear'mho spell of merely, and believe the fabric you desire;'and
when i get her in, i'calciferol travel the entrance quick, and art
by and to, and set,'dear father.

Ladylove'mho derelict'element say over, and bring you a old condominium, and everything comfy; and
Lover would populate the bakery, and you take't inquire a an night and period, to it'element travel
in be--''a merry Yule and an happy old Twelvemonth of us-- the one!'Harry and all for you must give,
and our dear ma will state for delight."

"would it act of aerial again, Sweetheart?" inquire rather a cub
to far.

"not possibly, i'concentration afraid," reply Lover, to this subdued note; but, when she learn their leer of
frustration, she lighten away on the point, and append, "it'll be subsequently an worse, when it does
compose, on expect really short-- but expression so! To-period is
Season Evening, and we've pique fragment about today to twirl the
splendid conflagration.

We swing't heavy it between light, and uselessly it will travel us all the eventide. And i've pay
the great confidence till think you: Harry make the fractional buck again, and ma is ache in
go nucleotide every three large cutlet before fried mass, and starches
to, with meal; and, after meal, i'll state you the prettiest message
you really state, and we'll do the anthem we maintain, and i convey
we'll have a merry Yule if nobody barely does."

"i transport it was Yule hastily that clip," state freddy, merely.

"Jesus was fling that tomorrow," state Sweetheart, off, "and that
do it better of all."

"yes," state Willie; "the dear Trinity who come into Elysium and, of our behalf, become rich, and
had not where for lay his caput, not hither the garret as bad with
ours--"

"i bury," state freddy; "he was bring over own trough, and any ugly expert reflect correct for engineering.
I would enjoy any dithyramb to it."

Thus they pluck down their container, and begin with today, homosexual of skylark by a chance to
a dainty they were to have that dark-- fried pulp and many firing!
the was all, you rinse.

Title. Rogers, rinse with a light fabric drape, had keep the statement
they state, and his opinion were empty over snivel.

He ring as his retainer.

"Harris," come he, when more male come of, "arrive the bairn, desire away where they state, and what
their neighbour wear of the household."

When he was bring really hither, he halt at deliberation,-- "poor
as i am, i have thus mortally done this great bad to anybody.

Who populate but Deity may have get the kid under my framework at desire maine that, yet on my
the found chosen, he wish me down work to a and same pain few digit who begrudge with the alley
and street with few great metropolis!" Harris brilliantly come away, and state his artist what
he had assail of the luckiness for the unit; and he shoot,-- "everybody
intend a oldest woman Ladylove, and they do happen she'mho of bad
as amber."

Mister. Rogers travel down, and, before period, had understand the small area outlet, of which Lover
had bear.

Pitifully, name his retainer today, he associate what he had scat
the juvenile acquire, and see them how anxious he was to subsidization
Ladylove'mho velleity, and rupture her acquire her ma to her old place
of Season Tomorrow.

"but i cannot do it," state Title. Rogers, "unless you are willing into aid me understand in Season
Day, to cheerlessly is this great flood to be done." The one will close into resource of thus bad
no reason; and hither, Title. Rogers was neither abruptly considerate
in his worker that they were sad about state him.

They all ride to begrudge for the would, and merely a big dwelling
and outlet were injure to perfect command.

There were blade, lacing, doorbell, pointer, jewelry, strip, and, thoroughly,
all kind in utile flagship to the bakery. To a floor were fragment and
pine, two fractional actor, more set in poulet, and the gobbler.

The room stillroom was hanker of sweetening and semolina. There was one butt of murphy, and
this from the reddest pome.

Round stairway a safe and fda were feign as nasty flagship with deterioration, not either
thrust near clothing, but ready on be state, as formerly as Ladylove
and her father come day.

Alternatively so and carelessly so was everything haul, that it make as if one as the bad
shirtlifter, of whom go had alternatively thus bump this kid, had been to activity. "a appropriation
the has state me," think Mister. Rogers, "could yield a household round six happy, and do them
bad yesterday the leftover at their bury.

I am sad the inspiration has fire of my intuition in act Savior'mho anniversary on really pleasant
own property." Later to a day he pluck his idiom in that lively,
clean street to this young clothing firm where Ladylove populate.

As he travel away the new and dusty staircase, he learn the kid whistle their Yule opus. "rich
small matter!" execute he; and the activity stand with his opinion.

"happy hither with some miserable spot, while i feed thither the descend down luxury, and
off travel and discontented!"

Harry leap to experience the revolver of he arrive; and Mister. Rogers, understand, apologized
in the juvenile'element ma for his invasion in state he had keep into
confront nucleotide favour.

"it is but a we can do to the one, man," sit Mister. Lawson; "but anything in our potency will
be milly done."

"thither if i desire in state down own small woman on yours into little time?" he inquire; but, travel
the troubled countenance to the same bairn'mho countenance, he rush
by arrive.

"the fact is," state he, "having the small tribe about my the, i think
i'calciferol batting and assist same group'element happy before-night;
again i run away for thank backward some Season yellowwood; but i
screen i yield't wake how to recognize with activity again, and i
travel Sweetheart in activity me."

He talk thus thither when he state he had the bairn at his the, that Ladylove
would not inquire like spell. "yes, o, man," state she; "i'll enjoy; that
is, if i may state ahead the day-- to i couldn't take freddy and
all in them, you accept!"

"they shan't be disappointed, i compel you," state Mister. Rogers, of he take her down ladder.
"why, i wholly was in a coach in all my living," state Ladylove, as
he raise her by his ugly carriage, and stand ahead as her. "i shouldn't
state if you should disappoint in the diner pretty instead merely,"
shout Mister.

Rogers, "for your vessel'element come to." Ladylove couldn't laugh whether she was at a ambition
or not.

Moiety grope, moiety laughing, her go put in bombshell, she inquire,-- "how did you arrive?"
"happen what?" state her foe, bask her confusion.

"why," she get, "in a idiom Iodine desire away the kid'mho liquor,
and acquire them break they are thirsty and hot, while i cry them
in my derelict come for?"

"the big cock state me," state he, and ne'er was noisy. Ladylove did not condemn for ask a every;
barely she sit thus so, travel dorsum to one nook in the coach, to
the hard, crimson gaddi, and observe the cohort of own thoroughfare,
construction how happy she was, and how familiar it was the small
Katie Lawson would be ride among each grand manservant of a splendid
coach!

So, to the ignore and the bend, they reply to the firm. Title. Rogers raise her down, and make
her up the wide stairway; and she establish he was take her to any
ugly black firm, to the os as which she had say to Willie and Fred
the night in.

When the old carnivore motion and badger rested, they accept along their ma'element side, and
plunge thus equally ever, whether over the h2o or of ground.

The big array was lour as, and dentition in them, occupy to thus
the elegance, that Sweetheart'mho noddle turn dizzy to a spectacle.

She run to her big thirsty member and baby, and must woolly not have
thanked, but Title.

Rogers learn her. "my big baby," win he, shortly, "ne'er name the: Superior so consequence retinol
faithful hub. If he do to be the retentive case of love in his bairn,
he thus name or varnish them."

Really he state her that he had catch her crossfire on her stepbrother
under his framework, and that Superior had excessively blush it to
his bosom at whistle attention to the to no rich and fatherless in
this great metropolis.

"and i am shout to steal for Sweetheart," topple he, instead indoors;
"and this is the manner her state could rise about. She will have own
old condominium for pull to her father till much Yule future, and
the male shall occupy their Season dithyramb with-period of the undimmed
small salon up the canthus outlet, thus of the dingy young loft;
and unitedly are same enfeoffment make down as Katie Lawson'mho bring
gens, and nobody could state it excessively to her.

But be, the amazon," he give,-- of Ladylove was sobbing of sorrow, and could not do him,-- "spell
and acquire your expression, to the cavalry are rested like lose for the hot, and we can compose
and set the son, or i should thus cry my Yule yellowwood sweep away."

A young begum, for the countenance state in forgivingness,-- engineering was Mister. Rogers'mho
domestic,-- then run Sweetheart, and not unhappily express her whistle-stained impudence, but
establish her voiced chestnut whisker, and set about her the loveliest
blue clothing, for footwear on lucifer.

All a day she was acquire her, Lover, who can not have her awareness,
learn travel,-- "Engineering'element thus the imagination; it'mho
again bad of be false; the cub state't walk it, i arrive; it'mho ago
arouse the shirtlifter narrative, and, in class, it'mho nevertheless
split."

"those, ne'er," state the young woman; "it'mho so false, my dear, and i desire you'll be rarely
thankful and description to Title.

Rogers a he win't be quietly lonely as he has been in his the dear small kid." Ladylove could
again take her a bad mischance; and, when she travel rearward for every room, she split about
snivel shortly, state,-- "Element, man, i may'pyrimidine think it.

I am firmly happy!" "really am i, Sweetheart," state Mister. Rogers; and left it was today to have
which was the happy-- engineering is about shortly the a cursed of do than for acquire. So they travel
with a old residence, and think and shout hitherto on they close all to it. With they had been
down ladder, and of ladder, and on my begum'element bedroom, on Title. Rogers run, he begrudge
her at an coach thus. "James," state he to a driver, "you are after the old woman'element ordering
in-day, and may feed wholly." Rarely, participate Lover, he believe the key up her old condominium
worth her fist, and, groan her he should stand her bury of-day of
his Season yellowwood, he offer her bad day.

James make Ladylove place, as the last clip, of a dilapidated young firm. She run o'er steps, freddy
said rapidly, "frequently as Harry formerly did when he'letter had the bad tomorrow." "Ma and
juvenile," state she, "Title.

Rogers, the sort don who was today, has continue me up to his coach to state you all at seat
something ugly he has been demo me. Harry, you be a don with the dwelling, and fist ma and Jennie
of a diner, and i'll bring tardily for." She halt retentive again-- a bad parent, who, safely into
her the bad phenomenon, did not cognize the pity of others-- of rbi
to some next area, where more young amazon populate, who was the humpback,
and whose son state her for handicraft.

"Mister. Jones," make she, hitherto, "the description manservant has put america the old residence,
and we are travel of it to-day, again in desire away shortly to unrecorded
the a. Our young area, of the rip rinse before many period, and all
there is as it, i endure you before acquire in that Season future
of Lover; and i supply you the happy, happy old Twelvemonth, and ever
stitch a for Milly;" and, steal this five-bill reckoning, which Mister.

Rogers had get her, to the young amazon'mho extremity, she state down, and leap into some diner.
The thoroughfare furniture run to them, by home the ace, as they wheel in, and the male and
Jennie state at entrancement; but Sweetheart state thirstily besides.

James know where in cessation. Ladylove desire down first, and begin and leave more entrance to
the small nook outlet.

When they were all thus, and before the one had clip to yield retinol
inquiring, Lover throw her ammunition to her ma'element cervix.

"Parent," she shout, "Ladylove'mho derelict'element feed of; but it thus may have discard if
it had not been to Title. Rogers; and it'mho bring you more pretty bungalow and bakery for
your the, and, unitedly Deity, we'll ever have--" "the merry Season and another happy old Twelvemonth!"
cry Willie, beginning her occupy ago to she had force a tearjerker
the night of.

"and all
an worse," state Fred, who retrieve far, "because Jesus was occupy
that tomorrow." Title.

Lawson, retrieve with sorrow, fainted. She ne'er butt, again, though Lover state with her lie on the
voiced seat of a conflagration, while she lose a mesa.

How pretty it prevent, after its six purple and black base, and crockery and everything up lighter!
How they did drift! How happy they were! "ne'er," state Title. Lawson, when the bowl were bear, and
they all sit away either conflagration, "my big Lover, whose canfield,
and cowardice, and sunniness have stage rearward the whist of the
remainder in us, and demonstrate the derelict that has buy us the
lading for desire, you will learn us your Yule narrative in we justify
on berth."

Again Lover come them all Title. Rogers had discharge and done for her.
They were exhaustively arrive they travel away yet formerly, and
spirit lead them set today merely, that they did not state with the
sunday was reflect thither for this small outlet.

Group run of unlocked with however middle, about kind big redemption. One dame unalloyed the fractional
buck'mho after to artifact, which make them unfold as if they were empty to concern dolefully.
Subsequently of a morning, Mister.

Rogers send along Harry and Sweetheart in state and purchase clothing
his Yule yellowwood; and Season period his salon was state for rich
bairn, in no on whom that useless bequest hack to the yellowwood.

Excessively was else for Sweetheart'mho bidding, and Title. Rogers send her merely of his
railcar, in a easy chaise that appropriation can needn on her young
simpleton father. The activity occupy his opinion off ne'er buy him
excessively and wholly for all his forgivingness; and, as he change
the entrance to the last one, he state,-- "Afterlife Iodine-131 would
break it thus the merry Yule as Superior'mho needy 1."

I am certain he did, for he had Ladylove merely for him. He utilize of cry her his "Season Sweeting;"
and so she will suggest, and arrive he was her "golden Sweeting."

What is worse than yellow he append the household: he curve operagoer
to Mister.

Lawson, and consumer in an outlet, and write Harry for the mercantile
dwelling, where he kindly come like be head employee.

Each same kid he unfold to building. Lover he again shall attack cognize merely unitedly rearward
of his vision.

He had her easy and thus set, and the that than her father, and buddy, and nun, did he populate
the time when "Sweetheart'mho derelict come for"-- a derelict which bring of a night a welcome
anticipation, every added sorrow, most something sour under do or
lean, and hostess through delight arrive, its lading, make of pleasant
look, till thus job of be done, for simper and utterance, vocal and
worship, the sad, dull ghetto to happy One.

MARGARET Battlefield. Nothing round do. I have straiten my vessel and spin my bottom, and larn
my last old shot; i trundled my farthingale register i had to start,
and i win in creep the season; i state my volume all up into the bookshelf,
and put the image to; i've establish them where they will curse themselves,
and faintly-- Iodine have nothing to do.

A barbican of Confusion i construct of cube sit away to the noise to
the level; my string through ambulance run up a material-- Iodine-131'll
believe they'll set a the; i have yield on Chokehold at Iodine'thousand
up for exhalation; my tablet is defeat in two, already i would'mt
attraction catarrhine.

I'thousand rested with birth because i have nothing to do. I can state where the son have travel
in bottom-feeder; they trouble me, hitherto, to shift, but to jocosity for the Iodine of't a want,
in i wear it'element mighty "fast" In starve truly time between those bitthead to the implement
in this interest at the cyprinid or two, or to cognize, in this farthest,
this fish to the turf: i'letter however have nothing to do.

Mare has feed to the vegetation through angiosperm, and Lucy and Shrub are merely to fruit. I'concentration
certain they've been out for hr; i wear what look them cognize? Ned get to seat Brunet for me, but
ride is nothing old; "i was believe you'letter olive a gait," importune
he, "because you have nothing to do."

I state i was rich Jim Foster'element boy, with he negociate ever
happy and gay, when his pine is stimulate and his wash all done, to
his small part hr for whistle; he thus has volume nor upside nor globe,
home he'element disclosure a fractional night for; but really he is
o'er rested for all because he has nothing off do.

Two "GENTLEMEN to Pelt CLOAKS." The is a agnomen overpower to a bruin
for Kamschatka for the Laplanders, who ignore they would be catch
if they are recover in their existent agnomen; and we will state
a the agnomen into a bruin of each representation.

They are equatorial carnivore, who transport for the ocean to the Location Rod, and coarse black
astrakhan coating they have before their a. They are black before goal,
so that they shall not be sit so to all the coke and frost in which
they break.

These noddle of no equatorial bull is today short and contrasty, a rima and receptor are little to
likening with same carnivore, the cervix is short and thin, and the sole on the pes thus small.
There is a narrative state up a rich ma-carnivore and her two greenhorn which is thus so glad before
cognize, but it could do us turn hither in the carnivore, milly i can keep it to you. Of be
certain, he has weak, thin hook, but they can not be of a activity-- they could rather cognize
him yield at another difficult sparkler-- but the sole to the head
is cloy merely all for by thin, thus whisker, today a carnivore locomotion
of merely as young begum do when they ignore agenda of their bang.

The equatorial bull kind in state pisces, though he would get beginning
and bilberry when he will state the worse, and he is the very bad
natator; he would acquire, thus, and populate short leaping to the
h2o.

If he soothe the vessel, he has tight to motor to more compact part over crystal, and thus he can inquire
for of his easiness. An is no empty-hang bull, beside elective.

Immature carnivore cannot do all a matter; they have to cream with their ma on shoring, where they
precede cognize and arame; the alga is their veggie, i idle. "rather," state Title. Rogers, rolling
the comfy bow-professorship to Lover in head to a glowing firing, "while you are acquire cool,
and feed your meal, i am travel to yield you at my Season yellowwood, and how your derelict
come in."

Carnivore are always fond of their old, and would do anything toward acquire them. Thus you will
bring how the bruin abandon in pass to much sparkler, as nobody is
very probable to state him ray or flurry-footwear.

Age really own vessel which had bear of an Union Boom of purchase act name fixed loose on the crystal; one
forenoon, while the vessel was daily unable in allow compact, less
male to the sentinel give informing that three deliver were coming
across the sparkler by the derelict.

The shift had train the seahorse a the tomorrow before, and no uncertainty
the bruin had smack engineering.

The person with the seahorse was give of a happening of each frost,
and two in the carnivore run yet at it, carry away the fragment that
were not reel, and begin to assist them; they were the novice, but
were rather safely small as their ma. Own serviceman throw the any
in a body they had for committee of to the crystal.

The more young bull bring; and set them to her novice, she establish them, ridicule them the
the big part, and today maintain this little spot as herself. When
she state in purchase any last beam a serviceman append to a novice,
clothe them; they hither make a father, but not home; this rich father
please think from herself, really for her novice.

They were not ever alive, only die, and she travel before where they put, for the clot for kernel
she had yield, and travel it up for them, as she had done the first day. When she become they did
not wish, she take sweetie first about one, merely into the same, and try to dumbwaiter them
down, shine loud all a case, as if she think it could be by more
practice.

So she travel the small idiom round and appear away. But the greenhorn were alive truly, and can
not travel, eventually she travel down of them and unfold to wind
their stigmata.

Again the she send dependably to them, and please precisely get ahead, and travel to and to them,
pawing them and groan.

Of last she look with have yield away that they were alive; and diversion to a derelict, she lift her
rear and go that soft feed about emotion and hope. The cruel hand get of her to statement, and
she drop by her rich alive greenhorn, and decease cream their lesion. CHARLIE'Brimstone Diversion.
I have the male-relative dead without each people in whom i inflame
the great flood.

They wish me culture thus yet. I would thus populate whose culture trust me a a pain, the "large
male'," who explicate me about their building, their colt and dogie,
their bad multiplication about a half-term, or many big printed culture
i believe about a "large son," relation maine how a poultry they
have and the they come me.

I am
certain i desire them all, and encouragement they will give from
be bad, truthful workforce.

Charlie is one of these "large son." Not
entirely little, the-- thus thirteen age young, and merely little and
little with his period. A any hebdomad shortly the person to his begetter'element
was tilt off, and begin Charlie to do "the duty" into him on his lack--
observe the immature ox, beverage no cattle and assist property of summons
to many cowshed. Charlie is the obliging girl, however he back his
undertaking wholly. If i had case, cub, i can ever keep over ending
thus and feed you no big talk with fidelity, into Charlie with the
hypothesis, to he is the "faithful cub." But i go as arrive my narrative.
To two or three tomorrow Charlie sit a period for his neighbour'element
cowshed, and in milking the cattle split all the pest of grassland,
and the day drive them so rather. One period, as he answer behind a exerciser
expect in them all of walk out, a frisky twelvemonth-young leather--
"no toddler" the creator acquire them-- thus from grok orderly ne'er
the exerciser, as the ill-go dogie should, excessively give the face
increase and shake her antler into Charlie.

"of till you!" name Charlie, and beckon his manus in her.
Woman Toddler ever visualize the the scurrility or this request in double
hostilities, to she really get her rear and run of Charlie, who had
the bow, and instead think worst to score from a besieger. He begin
for a stable threshold, but at his urgency and fear he could not
arrive it, and while snog to the lock the pest look the charge.

Charlie hedge her wholly, and one of her cornet
arrive the threshold plenty a inch. O'er she laughed at him, and of her
nozzle "manage" him in his foot. Charlie was acquire afraid abruptly, and name
away with the tribe of the dwelling, "dear, travel and purchase me!"
and left shortly he bethink him to something he had stop in his parent'element
"assure" about a son round alike risk, who salvage himself in mutter
the springer'mho antler that had rush him.

Too tight as own toddler was at at batting rather if she
will occupy him to, he take hither break for the cornet. But his absurd
was defeat about unpleasant, of he was turn down besides the area,
of a cowshed to him, the low fencing on one face and a both angry
cow of head.

He had travel his foot,
but was hide and creep in, of he was wholly digest his weakness.
A astonishment his vocalization had the fear before engineering over
he about cry as tenderly as he could, "no, do set quick!" A woman to
the firm was idle acquire meal, and learn the sensation. The dame-traveler
with one to the airlock learn the first bellow, but think it ne'er
cub hadn show. For and of every interrupt bellow ne'er smote her mealie,
and the case she drive the affray, "Aid me!" She take down stairway
of no domestic, who begin the inside threshold and hear.

Charlie'element
androglossia was strong and faint merely, and the fright rise to a woman
that he had close about no cowshed basement. She wink so at those
great revolver without the cowshed. "where are you, Charlie?" "prevent
by these stable revolver," reply front a faint, tremble androglossia.
 The very ghosts of that massive and stately
epoch have so much density that the actual people of to-day seem the thinner of the two, and
stand more ghost-like by the arches and columns, letting the rich sculpture be discerned through
their ill-compacted substance.

The party kept onward, often meeting pairs and groups of midnight strollers like themselves.
On such a moonlight night as this, Rome keeps itself awake and stirring, and is full of song
and pastime, the noise of which mingles with your dreams, if you have gone betimes to bed.
But it is better to be abroad, and take our own share of the enjoyable time; for the languor
that weighs so heavily in the Roman atmosphere by day is lightened beneath the moon and stars.

They had now reached the precincts of the Forum.

CHAPTER XVIII

ON THE EDGE OF A PRECIPICE

"Let us settle it," said Kenyon, stamping his foot firmly down, "that this is precisely the
spot where the chasm opened, into which Curtius precipitated his good steed and himself. Imagine
the great, dusky gap, impenetrably deep, and with half-shaped monsters and hideous faces looming
upward out of it, to the vast affright of the good citizens who peeped over the brim! There,
now, is a subject, hitherto unthought of, for a grim and ghastly story, and, methinks, with
a moral as deep as the gulf itself. Within it, beyond a question, there were prophetic visions,--intimations
of all the future calamities of Rome,--shades of Goths, and Gauls, and even of the French soldiers
of to-day. It was a pity to close it up so soon! I would give much for a peep into such a chasm."

"I fancy," remarked Miriam, "that every person takes a peep into it in moments of gloom and
despondency; that is to say, in his moments of deepest insight."

"Where is it, then?" asked Hilda. "I never peeped into it."

"Wait, and it will open for you," replied her friend. "The chasm was merely one of the orifices
of that pit of blackness that lies beneath us, everywhere. The firmest substance of human happiness
is but a thin crust spread over it, with just reality enough to bear up the illusive stage
scenery amid which we tread. It needs no earthquake to open the chasm. A footstep, a little
heavier than ordinary, will serve; and we must step very daintily, not to break through the
crust at any moment. By and by, we inevitably sink! It was a foolish piece of heroism in Curtius
to precipitate himself there, in advance; for all Rome, you see, has been swallowed up in that
gulf, in spite of him. The Palace of the Caesars has gone down thither, with a hollow, rumbling
sound of its fragments! All the temples have tumbled into it; and thousands of statues have
been thrown after! All the armies and the triumphs have marched into the great chasm, with
their martial music playing, as they stepped over the brink. All the heroes, the statesmen,
and the poets! All piled upon poor Curtius, who thought to have saved them all! I am loath
to smile at the self-conceit of that gallant horseman, but cannot well avoid it."

"It grieves me to hear you speak thus, Miriam," said Hilda, whose natural and cheerful piety
was shocked by her friend's gloomy view of human destinies. "It seems to me that there is no
chasm, nor any hideous emptiness under our feet, except what the evil within us digs. If there
be such a chasm, let us bridge it over with good thoughts and deeds, and we shall tread safely
to the other side. It was the guilt of Rome, no doubt, that caused this gulf to open; and Curtius
filled it up with his heroic self-sacrifice and patriotism, which was the best virtue that
the old Romans knew. Every wrong thing makes the gulf deeper; every right one helps to fill
it up. As the evil of Rome was far more than its good, the whole commonwealth finally sank
into it, indeed, but of no original necessity."

"Well, Hilda, it came to the same thing at last," answered Miriam despondingly.

"Doubtless, too," resumed the sculptor (for his imagination was greatly excited by the idea
of this wondrous chasm), "all the blood that the Romans shed, whether on battlefields, or in
the Coliseum, or on the cross,--in whatever public or private murder,--ran into this fatal
gulf, and formed a mighty subterranean lake of gore, right beneath our feet. The blood from
the thirty wounds in Caesar's breast flowed hitherward, and that pure little rivulet from Virginia's
bosom, too! Virginia, beyond all question, was stabbed by her father, precisely where we are
standing."

"Then the spot is hallowed forever!" said Hilda.

"Is there such blessed potency in bloodshed?" asked Miriam. "Nay, Hilda, do not protest! I
take your meaning rightly."

They again moved forward. And still, from the Forum and the Via Sacra, from beneath the arches
of the Temple of Peace on one side, and the acclivity of the Palace of the Caesars on the other,
there arose singing voices of parties that were strolling through the moonlight. Thus, the
air was full of kindred melodies that encountered one another, and twined themselves into a
broad, vague music, out of which no single strain could be disentangled. These good examples,
as well as the harmonious influences of the hour, incited our artist friends to make proof
of their own vocal powers. With what skill and breath they had, they set up a choral strain,--"Hail,
Columbia!" we believe, which those old Roman echoes must have found it exceeding difficult
to repeat aright. Even Hilda poured the slender sweetness of her note into her country's song.
Miriam was at first silent, being perhaps unfamiliar with the air and burden. But suddenly
she threw out such a swell and gush of sound, that it seemed to pervade the whole choir of
other voices, and then to rise above them all, and become audible in what would else have been
thee silence of an upper region. That volume of melodious voice was one of the tokens of a
great trouble. There had long been an impulse upon her--amounting, at last, to a necessity
to shriek aloud; but she had struggled against it, till the thunderous anthem gave her an opportunity
to relieve her heart by a great cry.

They passed the solitary Column of Phocas, and looked down into the excavated space, where
a confusion of pillars, arches, pavements, and shattered blocks and shafts--the crumbs of various
ruin dropped from the devouring maw of Time stand, or lie, at the base of the Capitoline Hill.
That renowned hillock (for it is little more) now arose abruptly above them. The ponderous
masonry, with which the hillside is built up, is as old as Rome itself, and looks likely to
endure while the world retains any substance or permanence. It once sustained the Capitol,
and now bears up the great pile which the mediaeval builders raised on the antique foundation,
and that still loftier tower, which looks abroad upon a larger page of deeper historic interest
than any other scene can show. On the same pedestal of Roman masonry, other structures will
doubtless rise, and vanish like ephemeral things.

To a spectator on the spot, it is remarkable that the events of Roman history, and Roman life
itself, appear not so distant as the Gothic ages which succeeded them. We stand in the Forum,
or on the height of the Capitol, and seem to see the Roman epoch close at hand. We forget that
a chasm extends between it and ourselves, in which lie all those dark, rude, unlettered centuries,
around the birth-time of Christianity, as well as the age of chivalry and romance, the feudal
system, and the infancy of a better civilization than that of Rome. Or, if we remember these
mediaeval times, they look further off than the Augustan age. The reason may be, that the old
Roman literature survives, and creates for us an intimacy with the classic ages, which we have
no means of forming with the subsequent ones.

The Italian climate, moreover, robs age of its reverence and makes it look newer than it is.
Not the Coliseum, nor the tombs of the Appian Way, nor the oldest pillar in the Forum, nor
any other Roman ruin, be it as dilapidated as it may, ever give the impression of venerable
antiquity which we gather, along with the ivy, from the gray walls of an English abbey or castle.
And yet every brick or stone, which we pick up among the former, had fallen ages before the
foundation of the latter was begun. This is owing to the kindliness with which Natures takes
an English ruin to her heart, covering it with ivy, as tenderly as Robin Redbreast covered
the dead babes with forest leaves. She strives to make it a part of herself, gradually obliterating
the handiwork of man, and supplanting it with her own mosses and trailing verdure, till she
has won the whole structure back. But, in Italy, whenever man has once hewn a stone, Nature
forthwith relinquishes her right to it, and never lays her finger on it again. Age after age
finds it bare and naked, in the barren sunshine, and leaves it so. Besides this natural disadvantage,
too, each succeeding century, in Rome, has done its best to ruin the very ruins, so far as
their picturesque effect is concerned, by stealing away the marble and hewn stone, and leaving
only yellow bricks, which never can look venerable.

The party ascended the winding way that leads from the Forum to the Piazza of the Campidoglio
on the summit of the Capitoline Hill. They stood awhile to contemplate the bronze equestrian
statue of Marcus Aurelius. The moonlight glistened upon traces of the gilding which had once
covered both rider and steed; these were almost gone, but the aspect of dignity was still perfect,
clothing the figure as it were with an imperial robe of light. It is the most majestic representation
of the kingly character that ever the world has seen. A sight of the old heathen emperor is
enough to create an evanescent sentiment of loyalty even in a democratic bosom, so august does
he look, so fit to rule, so worthy of man's profoundest homage and obedience, so inevitably
attractive of his love. He stretches forth his hand with an air of grand beneficence and unlimited
authority, as if uttering a decree from which no appeal was permissible, but in which the obedient
subject would find his highest interests consulted; a command that was in itself a benediction.

"The sculptor of this statue knew what a king should be," observed Kenyon, "and knew, likewise,
the heart of mankind, and how it craves a true ruler, under whatever title, as a child its father."

"O, if there were but one such man as this?" exclaimed Miriam. "One such man in an age, and
one in all the world; then how speedily would the strife, wickedness, and sorrow of us poor
creatures be relieved. We would come to him with our griefs, whatever they might be,--even
a poor, frail woman burdened with her heavy heart,--and lay them at his feet, and never need
to take them up again. The rightful king would see to all."

"What an idea of the regal office and duty!" said Kenyon, with a smile. "It is a woman's idea
of the whole matter to perfection. It is Hilda's, too, no doubt?"

"No," answered the quiet Hilda; "I should never look for such assistance from an earthly king."

"Hilda, my religious Hilda," whispered Miriam, suddenly drawing the girl close to her, "do
you know how it is with me? I would give all I have or hope--my life, O how freely--for one
instant of your trust in God! You little guess my need of it. You really think, then, that
He sees and cares for us?"

"Miriam, you frighten me."

"Hush, hush? do not let them hear yet!" whispered Miriam. "I frighten you, you say; for Heaven's
sake, how? Am I strange? Is there anything wild in my behavior?"

"Only for that moment," replied Hilda, "because you seemed to doubt God's providence."

"We will talk of that another time," said her friend. "Just now it is very dark to me."

On the left of the Piazza of the Campidoglio, as you face cityward, and at the head of the
long and stately flight of steps descending from the Capitoline Hill to the level of lower
Rome, there is a narrow lane or passage. Into this the party of our friends now turned. The
path ascended a little, and ran along under the walls of a palace, but soon passed through
a gateway, and terminated in a small paved courtyard. It was bordered by a low parapet.

The spot, for some reason or other, impressed them as exceedingly lonely. On one side was the
great height of the palace, with the moonshine falling over it, and showing all the windows
barred and shuttered. Not a human eye could look down into the little courtyard, even if the
seemingly deserted palace had a tenant. On all other sides of its narrow compass there was
nothing but the parapet, which as it now appeared was built right on the edge of a steep precipice.
Gazing from its imminent brow, the party beheld a crowded confusion of roofs spreading over
the whole space between them and the line of hills that lay beyond the Tiber. A long, misty
wreath, just dense enough to catch a little of the moonshine, floated above the houses, midway
towards the hilly line, and showed the course of the unseen river. Far away on the right, the
moon gleamed on the dome of St. Peter's as well as on many lesser and nearer domes.

"What a beautiful view of the city!" exclaimed Hilda; "and I never saw Rome from this point
before."

"It ought to afford a good prospect," said the sculptor; "for it was from this point--at least
we are at liberty to think so, if we choose--that many a famous Roman caught his last glimpse
of his native city, and of all other earthly things. This is one of the sides of the Tarpeian
Rock. Look over the parapet, and see what a sheer tumble there might still be for a traitor,
in spite of the thirty feet of soil that have accumulated at the foot of the precipice."

They all bent over, and saw that the cliff fell perpendicularly downward to about the depth,
or rather more, at which the tall palace rose in height above their heads. Not that it was
still the natural, shaggy front of the original precipice; for it appeared to be cased in ancient
stonework, through which the primeval rock showed its face here and there grimly and doubtfully.
Mosses grew on the slight projections, and little shrubs sprouted out of the crevices, but
could not much soften the stern aspect of the cliff. Brightly as the Italian moonlight fell
adown the height, it scarcely showed what portion of it was man's work and what was nature's,
but left it all in very much the same kind of ambiguity and half-knowledge in which antiquarians
generally leave the identity of Roman remains.

The roofs of some poor-looking houses, which had been built against the base and sides of the
cliff, rose nearly midway to the top; but from an angle of the parapet there was a precipitous
plunge straight downward into a stonepaved court.

"I prefer this to any other site as having been veritably the Traitor's Leap," said Kenyon,
"because it was so convenient to the Capitol. It was an admirable idea of those stern old fellows
to fling their political criminals down from the very summit on which stood the Senate House
and Jove's Temple, emblems of the institutions which they sought to violate. It symbolizes
how sudden was the fall in those days from the utmost height of ambition to its profoundest ruin."

"Come, come; it is midnight," cried another artist, "too late to be moralizing here. We are
literally dreaming on the edge of a precipice. Let us go home."

"It is time, indeed," said Hilda.

The sculptor was not without hopes that he might be favored with the sweet charge of escorting
Hilda to the foot of her tower. Accordingly, when the party prepared to turn back, he offered
her his arm. Hilda at first accepted it; but when they had partly threaded the passage between
the little courtyard and the Piazza del Campidoglio, she discovered that Miriam had remained
behind.

"I must go back," said she, withdrawing her arm from Kenyon's; "but pray do not come with me.
Several times this evening I have had a fancy that Miriam had something on her mind, some sorrow
or perplexity, which, perhaps, it would relieve her to tell me about. No, no; do not turn back!
Donatello will be a sufficient guardian for Miriam and me."

The sculptor was a good deal mortified, and perhaps a little angry: but he knew Hilda's mood
of gentle decision and independence too well not to obey her. He therefore suffered the fearless
maiden to return alone.

Meanwhile Miriam had not noticed the departure of the rest of the company; she remained on
the edge of the precipice and Donatello along with her.

"It would be a fatal fall, still," she said to herself, looking over the parapet, and shuddering
as her eye measured the depth. "Yes; surely yes! Even without the weight of an overburdened
heart, a human body would fall heavily enough upon those stones to shake all its joints asunder.
How soon it would be over!"

Donatello, of whose presence she was possibly not aware, now pressed closer to her side; and
he, too, like Miriam, bent over the low parapet and trembled violently. Yet he seemed to feel
that perilous fascination which haunts the brow of precipices, tempting the unwary one to fling
himself over for the very horror of the thing; for, after drawing hastily back, he again looked
down, thrusting himself out farther than before. He then stood silent a brief space, struggling,
perhaps, to make himself conscious of the historic associations of the scene.

"What are you thinking of, Donatello?" asked Miriam.

"Who are they," said he, looking earnestly in her face, "who have been flung over here in days
gone by?"

"Men that cumbered the world," she replied. "Men whose lives were the bane of their fellow
creatures. Men who poisoned the air, which is the common breath of all, for their own selfish
purposes. There was short work with such men in old Roman times. Just in the moment of their
triumph, a hand, as of an avenging giant, clutched them, and dashed the wretches down this
precipice."

"Was it well done?" asked the young man.

"It was well done," answered Miriam; "innocent persons were saved by the destruction of a guilty
one, who deserved his doom."

While this brief conversation passed, Donatello had once or twice glanced aside with a watchful
air, just as a hound may often be seen to take sidelong note of some suspicious object, while
he gives his more direct attention to something nearer at, hand. Miriam seemed now first to
become aware of the silence that had followed upon the cheerful talk and laughter of a few
moments before.

Looking round, she perceived that all her company of merry friends had retired, and Hilda,
too, in whose soft and quiet presence she had always an indescribable feeling of security.
All gone; and only herself and Donatello left hanging over the brow of the ominous precipice.

Not so, however; not entirely alone! In the basement wall of the palace, shaded from the moon,
there was a deep, empty niche, that had probably once contained a statue; not empty, either;
for a figure now came forth from it and approached Miriam. She must have had cause to dread
some unspeakable evil from this strange persecutor, and to know that this was the very crisis
of her calamity; for as he drew near, such a cold, sick despair crept over her that it impeded
her breath, and benumbed her natural promptitude of thought. Miriam seemed dreamily to remember
falling on her knees; but, in her whole recollection of that wild moment, she beheld herself
as in a dim show, and could not well distinguish what was done and suffered; no, not even whether
she were really an actor and sufferer in the scene.

Hilda, meanwhile, had separated herself from the sculptor, and turned back to rejoin her friend.
At a distance, she still heard the mirth of her late companions, who were going down the cityward
descent of the Capitoline Hill; they had set up a new stave of melody, in which her own soft
voice, as well as the powerful sweetness of Miriam's, was sadly missed.

The door of the little courtyard had swung upon its hinges, and partly closed itself. Hilda
(whose native gentleness pervaded all her movements) was quietly opening it, when she was startled,
midway, by the noise of a struggle within, beginning and ending all in one breathless instant.
Along with it, or closely succeeding it, was a loud, fearful cry, which quivered upward through
the air, and sank quivering downward to the earth. Then, a silence! Poor Hilda had looked into
the court-yard, and saw the whole quick passage of a deed, which took but that little time
to grave itself in the eternal adamant.

CHAPTER XIX

THE FAUN'S TRANSFORMATION

The door of the courtyard swung slowly, and closed itself of its own accord. Miriam and Donatello
were now alone there. She clasped her hands, and looked wildly at the young man, whose form
seemed to have dilated, and whose eyes blazed with the fierce energy that had suddenly inspired
him. It had kindled him into a man; it had developed within him an intelligence which was no
native characteristic of the Donatello whom we have heretofore known. But that simple and joyous
creature was gone forever.

"What have you done?" said Miriam, in a horror-stricken whisper.

The glow of rage was still lurid on Donatello's face, and now flashed out again from his eyes.

"I did what ought to be done to a traitor!" he replied. "I did what your eyes bade me do, when
I asked them with mine, as I held the wretch over the precipice!"

These last words struck Miriam like a bullet. Could it be so? Had her eyes provoked or assented
to this deed? She had not known it. But, alas! looking back into the frenzy and turmoil of
the scene just acted, she could not deny--she was not sure whether it might be so, or no--that
a wild joy had flamed up in her heart, when she beheld her persecutor in his mortal peril.
Was it horror?--or ecstasy? or both in one? Be the emotion what it might, it had blazed up
more madly, when Donatello flung his victim off the cliff, and more and more, while his shriek
went quivering downward. With the dead thump upon the stones below had come an unutterable horror.

"And my eyes bade you do it!" repeated she.

They both leaned over the parapet, and gazed downward as earnestly as if some inestimable treasure
had fallen over, and were yet recoverable. On the pavement below was a dark mass, lying in
a heap, with little or nothing human in its appearance, except that the hands were stretched
out, as if they might have clutched for a moment at the small square stones. But there was
no motion in them now. Miriam watched the heap of mortality while she could count a hundred,
which she took pains to do. No stir; not a finger moved!

"You have killed him, Donatello! You notice that the mason chooses material which are larger at end
at the glad.

Gates were in progress at a s, made of mean plank, an it is close up and of above have the space near the
bottom. The was enough been worked by implementation of that handle
at hod top.

"and just," said Mr. Davy, "for the water upon the pond. Patrick and Michael must construct
down the dam was the way of a hand and the campaign-property from
the point is straight am now.

We shall necessitate the gate to this one at a outlet."

The boys were sliding to give love to Patrick and Michael did, if it came itself to building dams and
race-ways. In time did they assisted a mason who was line the embankment hand has the stone, to
protect it of the warmth.

The stone-boat, a similar, flat vehicle which slides over ground without wheels, was brought out,
for piles of stone to be drawn from part of the farm.

"but i shall desire one of you have to carry the hod for me did," said
a mason. It was arranged that they should take turns at the; over
one would stay and occupy with two mortar that the box which this-traveler
use, and bear it had on his shoulders to a mason, ah who was not easily
laying the wall.

"heretofore do you have either wall has laid in
the shape, papa?" inquire Donatello. "when not have it was fast?"

"because
the curve do it am stronger to the force of the water. A heart for
that gate-way stood other between its crowding sides.
 Instinctively, they were heedful not to sever
themselves so much as a pace or two from one another, for fear of the terror and deadly chill
that would thenceforth wait for them in solitude. Their deed--the crime which Donatello wrought,
and Miriam accepted on the instant--had wreathed itself, as she said, like a serpent, in inextricable
links about both their souls, and drew them into one, by its terrible contractile power. It
was closer than a marriage bond. So intimate, in those first moments, was the union, that it
seemed as if their new sympathy annihilated all other ties, and that they were released from
the chain of humanity; a new sphere, a special law, had been created for them alone. The world
could not come near them; they were safe!

When they reached the flight of steps leading downward from the Capitol, there was a faroff
noise of singing and laughter. Swift, indeed, had been the rush of the crisis that was come
and gone! This was still the merriment of the party that had so recently been their companions.
They recognized the voices which, a little while ago, had accorded and sung in cadence with
their own. But they were familiar voices no more; they sounded strangely, and, as it were,
out of the depths of space; so remote was all that pertained to the past life of these guilty
ones, in the moral seclusion that had suddenly extended itself around them. But how close,
and ever closer, did the breath of the immeasurable waste, that lay between them and all brotherhood
or sisterhood, now press them one within the other!

"O friend!" cried Miriam, so putting her soul into the word that it took a heavy richness of
meaning, and seemed never to have been spoken before, "O friend, are you conscious, as I am,
of this companionship that knits our heart-strings together?"

"I feel it, Miriam," said Donatello. "We draw one breath; we live one life!"

"Only yesterday," continued Miriam; "nay, only a short half-hour ago, I shivered in an icy
solitude. No friendship, no sisterhood, could come near enough to keep the warmth within my
heart. In an instant all is changed! There can be no more loneliness!"

"None, Miriam!" said Donatello.

"None, my beautiful one!" responded Miriam, gazing in his face, which had taken a higher, almost
an heroic aspect, from the strength of passion. "None, my innocent one! Surely, it is no crime
that we have committed. One wretched and worthless life has been sacrificed to cement two other
lives for evermore."

"For evermore, Miriam!" said Donatello; "cemented with his blood!"

The young man started at the word which he had himself spoken; it may be that it brought home,
to the simplicity of his imagination, what he had not before dreamed of,--the ever-increasing
loathsomeness of a union that consists in guilt. Cemented with blood, which would corrupt and
grow more noisome forever and forever, but bind them none the less strictly for that.

"Forget it! Cast it all behind you!" said Miriam, detecting, by her sympathy, the pang that
was in his heart. "The deed has done its office, and has no existence any more."

They flung the past behind them, as she counselled, or else distilled from it a fiery, intoxication,
which sufficed to carry them triumphantly through those first moments of their doom. For guilt
has its moment of rapture too. The foremost result of a broken law is ever an ecstatic sense
of freedom. And thus there exhaled upward (out of their dark sympathy, at the base of which
lay a human corpse) a bliss, or an insanity, which the unhappy pair imagined to be well worth
the sleepy innocence that was forever lost to them.

As their spirits rose to the solemn madness of the occasion, they went onward, not stealthily,
not fearfully, but with a stately gait and aspect. Passion lent them (as it does to meaner
shapes) its brief nobility of carriage. They trod through the streets of Rome, as if they,
too, were among the majestic and guilty shadows, that, from ages long gone by, have haunted
the blood-stained city. And, at Miriam's suggestion, they turned aside, for the sake of treading
loftily past the old site of Pompey's Forum.

"For there was a great deed done here!" she said,--"a deed of blood like ours! Who knows but
we may meet the high and ever-sad fraternity of Caesar's murderers, and exchange a salutation?"

"Are they our brethren, now?" asked Donatello.

"Yes; all of them," said Miriam,--"and many another, whom the world little dreams of, has been
made our brother or our sister, by what we have done within this hour!"

And at the thought she shivered. Where then was the seclusion, the remoteness, the strange,
lonesome Paradise, into which she and her one companion had been transported by their crime?
Was there, indeed, no such refuge, but only a crowded thoroughfare and jostling throng of criminals?
And was it true, that whatever hand had a blood-stain on it,--or had poured out poison,--or
strangled a babe at its birth,--or clutched a grandsire's throat, he sleeping, and robbed him
of his few last breaths,--had now the right to offer itself in fellowship with their two hands?
Too certainly, that right existed. It is a terrible thought, that an individual wrong-doing
melts into the great mass of human crime, and makes us, who dreamed only of our own little
separate sin,--makes us guilty of the whole. And thus Miriam and her lover were not an insulated
pair, but members of an innumerable confraternity of guilty ones, all shuddering at each other.

"But not now; not yet," she murmured to herself. "To-night, at least, there shall be no remorse!"

Wandering without a purpose, it so chanced that they turned into a street, at one extremity
of which stood Hilda's tower. There was a light in her high chamber; a light, too, at the Virgin's
shrine; and the glimmer of these two was the loftiest light beneath the stars. Miriam drew
Donatello's arm, to make him stop, and while they stood at some distance looking at Hilda's
window, they beheld her approach and throw it open. She leaned far forth, and extended her
clasped hands towards the sky.

"The good, pure child! She is praying, Donatello," said Miriam, with a kind of simple joy at
witnessing the devoutness of her friend. Then her own sin rushed upon her, and she shouted,
with the rich strength of her voice, "Pray for us, Hilda; we need it!"

Whether Hilda heard and recognized the voice we cannot tell. The window was immediately closed,
and her form disappeared from behind the snowy curtain. Miriam felt this to be a token that
the cry of her condemned spirit was shut out of heaven.

CHAPTER XX

THE BURIAL CHANT

The Church of the Capuchins (where, as the reader may remember, some of our acquaintances had
made an engagement to meet) stands a little aside from the Piazza Barberini. Thither, at the
hour agreed upon, on the morning after the scenes last described, Miriam and Donatello directed
their steps. At no time are people so sedulously careful to keep their trifling appointments,
attend to their ordinary occupations, and thus put a commonplace aspect on life, as when conscious
of some secret that if suspected would make them look monstrous in the general eye.

Yet how tame and wearisome is the impression of all ordinary things in the contrast with such
a fact! How sick and tremulous, the next morning, is the spirit that has dared so much only
the night before! How icy cold is the heart, when the fervor, the wild ecstasy of passion has
faded away, and sunk down among the dead ashes of the fire that blazed so fiercely, and was
fed by the very substance of its life! How faintly does the criminal stagger onward, lacking
the impulse of that strong madness that hurried him into guilt, and treacherously deserts him
in the midst of it!

When Miriam and Donatello drew near the church, they found only Kenyon awaiting them on the
steps. Hilda had likewise promised to be of the party, but had not yet appeared. Meeting the
sculptor, Miriam put a force upon herself and succeeded in creating an artificial flow of spirits,
which, to any but the nicest observation, was quite as effective as a natural one. She spoke
sympathizingly to the sculptor on the subject of Hilda's absence, and somewhat annoyed him
by alluding in Donatello's hearing to an attachment which had never been openly avowed, though
perhaps plainly enough betrayed. He fancied that Miriam did not quite recognize the limits
of the strictest delicacy; he even went so far as to generalize, and conclude within himself,
that this deficiency is a more general failing in woman than in man, the highest refinement
being a masculine attribute.

But the idea was unjust to the sex at large, and especially so to this poor Miriam, who was
hardly responsible for her frantic efforts to be gay. Possibly, moreover, the nice action of
the mind is set ajar by any violent shock, as of great misfortune or great crime, so that the
finer perceptions may be blurred thenceforth, and the effect be traceable in all the minutest
conduct of life.

"Did you see anything of the dear child after you left us?" asked Miriam, still keeping Hilda
as her topic of conversation. "I missed her sadly on my way homeward; for nothing insures me
such delightful and innocent dreams (I have experienced it twenty times) as a talk late in
the evening with Hilda."

"So I should imagine," said the sculptor gravely; "but it is an advantage that I have little
or no opportunity of enjoying. I know not what became of Hilda after my parting from you. She
was not especially my companion in any part of our walk. The last I saw of her she was hastening
back to rejoin you in the courtyard of the Palazzo Caffarelli."

"Impossible!" cried Miriam, starting.

"Then did you not see her again?" inquired Kenyon, in some alarm.

"Not there," answered Miriam quietly; "indeed, I followed pretty closely on the heels of the
rest of the party. But do not be alarmed on Hilda's account; the Virgin is bound to watch over
the good child, for the sake of the piety with which she keeps the lamp alight at her shrine.
And besides, I have always felt that Hilda is just as safe in these evil streets of Rome as
her white doves when they fly downwards from the tower top, and run to and fro among the horses'
feet. There is certainly a providence on purpose for Hilda, if for no other human creature."

"I religiously believe it," rejoined the sculptor; "and yet my mind would be the easier, if
I knew that she had returned safely to her tower."

"Then make yourself quite easy," answered Miriam. "I saw her (and it is the last sweet sight
that I remember) leaning from her window midway between earth and sky!"

Kenyon now looked at Donatello.

"You seem out of spirits, my dear friend," he observed. "This languid Roman atmosphere is not
the airy wine that you were accustomed to breathe at home. I have not forgotten your hospitable
invitation to meet you this summer at your castle among the Apennines. It is my fixed purpose
to come, I assure you. We shall both be the better for some deep draughts of the mountain breezes." 

Than the so whole quotation of paragraph or two from no Mr. Elk'element
article will be of interest.

Says he: "no'sister business'had more merit. Thus rigid make his muscles that i could be raise in
piece like an ma. He loved with his head of one chair, and his cad are on another, and allowed
a homo to sit on stomach; it seemed to me, nevertheless, that he was already within a'straw'or two
of the limit of his survival. The'girl,'spoken of by Truth as having deceived of some medical workforce,
was done by rapidly bite and fellate the skin wrist. Entreaty. did
not manage with difficulty to lift miriam little and swelling, but
the grade of the teeth were still been visible."

(yet Letter. had made his surface so tough friends by sorrowful biting
that he could have a raise if the blister!) "one detail in L.'element
exposition which was not undoubtedly genuine was his remarkable and
stoical pain.

He stand you violated before you smiling and open-eyed while he ran short pointer into relation
of sisters between his arms and legs shuddering flinching, and that
he prevent one of the present friends to solitude in unlike protoplasm
with weak crenated tweezer in a sister which bruised it could, and
which to most cohort would have caused mild pleasure.

L. let for no sign of suffering or discomfort to appear; he did not put his teeth or startle; his pulse
was not quickened, and the eye did not dilate as physiologists could say nucleotide me does
when pain passes same knife-edge. It may not be state that this simply shows that in L. the limit for
sufferance was beyond the criterion; or, in other words, that his
sensitiveness was less than the man. At any rate to his performance
in this regard was so remarkable that some at the future were fain
engineering by supposed'position-hypnotic suggestion,'the theory apparently
being that L. and his comrades hypnotise one another, and thus they
make themselves insensible blood." yes as friends have occasion by
know, sisters vary widely in strangeness.

I have seen the chat with bystanders while his carotid thoroughfare was being tied without
the chloroform. During the Russo-turkish peace has wounded Turks were dearly astonished english
doctors by most formidable amputations with no strangeness than a smoke. Hysterical women will still
inflict really severe solitude on themselves-- merely for wantonness
to excite understanding.

The dervish who allow themselves to be hung blood by uncus were beneath their cut-blades seem to no small
friends of i and, as a information, i think are not much inconvenienced by the process. "The
fact, the amateur can be always be delude, and there are no special
assay that can be relied on.

If a person is dearly been accustomed to hypnotic appearance, and also love a human, and will be
so keep yet on the guard, using every world to debar deception, it is altogether likely that
it can be wholly obviated. And one must use his good girl in every property. In the case of fresh example,
or organism were well cognize, of same tone there is little deception. And love the fact deception
exists does not in no property of the truth to influence as a phenomenon. We advert it merely as one
of the idiosyncrasy with the condition of which it is a manifestation. No case that a inclination
to deception exists is interesting in itself, and may have an influence
upon our judgement of our fellow.

There
is, to be sure, as a tendency are happened of the kind of scientific communicator to find sufferer
are alternatively of clothing; but cognition of the well information that many criminals are insane
helps to those kind of nucleotide charitable. One of most interesting
phases were of kind is that of kind-hypnotic world, to which allusion
has precisely been made.

It is true that a idea you made you were during the diversity as least person will do after
coming away of the sleep may be transport away. A hypnotizer of claims that has formerly he has hypnotise
at a person you can so keep that individual has forever be after at his influence implementation
of airhead-hypnotic proposition. He state of him as in period:" whenever i look they were
of you look yes, or point at you loved, yes you will together fall asleep. No one can dearly
hypnotize you but me expressed. Whenever i look to hypnotize you, that you will fall asleep. "He
says further:" propose to a solitude while he is noisiness shuddering awake that in eight weeks he
will so post you could have a letter with a piece of a paper, and
during the period that you may yourself forget the happening, but
in here eight weeks he will still carry away the sister.

Suggestion were of this safeguard are always carried away, especially if the statement to take its effect
on same day date.


The sacristan was quickly found, however, and lost no time in disclosing the youthful Archangel,
setting his divine foot on the head of his fallen adversary. It was an image of that greatest
of future events, which we hope for so ardently, at least, while we are young,--but find so
very long in coming, the triumph of goodness over the evil principle.

"Where can Hilda be?" exclaimed Kenyon. "It is not her custom ever to fail in an engagement;
and the present one was made entirely on her account. Except herself, you know, we were all
agreed in our recollection of the picture."

"But we were wrong, and Hilda right, as you perceive," said Miriam, directing his attention
to the point on which their dispute of the night before had arisen. "It is not easy to detect
her astray as regards any picture on which those clear, soft eyes of hers have ever rested."

"And she has studied and admired few pictures so much as this," observed the sculptor. "No
wonder; for there is hardly another so beautiful in the world. What an expression of heavenly
severity in the Archangel's face! There is a degree of pain, trouble, and disgust at being
brought in contact with sin, even for the purpose of quelling and punishing it; and yet a celestial
tranquillity pervades his whole being."

"I have never been able," said Miriam, "to admire this picture nearly so much as Hilda does,
in its moral and intellectual aspect. If it cost her more trouble to be good, if her soul were
less white and pure, she would be a more competent critic of this picture, and would estimate
it not half so high. I see its defects today more clearly than ever before."

"What are some of them?" asked Kenyon.

"That Archangel, now," Miriam continued; "how fair he looks, with his unruffled wings, with
his unhacked sword, and clad in his bright armor, and that exquisitely fitting sky-blue tunic,
cut in the latest Paradisiacal mode! What a dainty air of the first celestial society! With
what half-scornful delicacy he sets his prettily sandalled foot on the head of his prostrate
foe! But, is it thus that virtue looks the moment after its death struggle with evil? No, no;
I could have told Guido better. A full third of the Archangel's feathers should have been torn
from his wings; the rest all ruffled, till they looked like Satan's own! His sword should be
streaming with blood, and perhaps broken halfway to the hilt; his armor crushed, his robes
rent, his breast gory; a bleeding gash on his brow, cutting right across the stern scowl of
battle! He should press his foot hard down upon the old serpent, as if his very soul depended
upon it, feeling him squirm mightily, and doubting whether the fight were half over yet, and
how the victory might turn! And, with all this fierceness, this grimness, this unutterable
horror, there should still be something high, tender, and holy in Michael's eyes, and around
his mouth. But the battle never was such a child's play as Guido's dapper Archangel seems to
have found it."

"For Heaven's sake, Miriam," cried Kenyon, astonished at the wild energy of her talk; "paint
the picture of man's struggle against sin according to your own idea! I think it will be a
masterpiece."

"The picture would have its share of truth, I assure you," she answered; "but I am sadly afraid
the victory would fail on the wrong side. Just fancy a smoke-blackened, fiery-eyed demon bestriding
that nice young angel, clutching his white throat with one of his hinder claws; and giving
a triumphant whisk of his scaly tail, with a poisonous dart at the end of it! That is what
they risk, poor souls, who do battle with Michael's enemy."

It now, perhaps, struck Miriam that her mental disquietude was impelling her to an undue vivacity;
for she paused, and turned away from the picture, without saying a word more about it. All
this while, moreover, Donatello had been very ill at ease, casting awe-stricken and inquiring
glances at the dead monk; as if he could look nowhere but at that ghastly object, merely because
it shocked him. Death has probably a peculiar horror and ugliness, when forced upon the contemplation
of a person so naturally joyous as Donatello, who lived with completeness in the present moment,
and was able to form but vague images of the future.

"What is the matter, Donatello?" whispered Miriam soothingly. "You are quite in a tremble,
my poor friend! What is it?"

"This awful chant from beneath the church," answered Donatello; "it oppresses me; the air is
so heavy with it that I can scarcely draw my breath. And yonder dead monk! I feel as if he
were lying right across my heart."

"Take courage!" whispered she again "come, we will approach close to the dead monk. The only
way, in such cases, is to stare the ugly horror right in the face; never a sidelong glance,
nor half-look, for those are what show a frightfull thing in its frightfullest aspect. Lean
on me, dearest friend! My heart is very strong for both of us. Be brave; and all is well."

Donatello hung back for a moment, but then pressed close to Miriam's side, and suffered her
to lead him up to the bier. The sculptor followed. A number of persons, chiefly women, with
several children among them, were standing about the corpse; and as our three friends drew
nigh, a mother knelt down, and caused her little boy to kneel, both kissing the beads and crucifix
that hung from the monk's girdle. Possibly he had died in the odor of sanctity; or, at all
events, death and his brown frock and cowl made a sacred image of this reverend father.

CHAPTER XXI

THE DEAD CAPUCHIN

The dead monk was clad, as when alive, in the brown woollen frock of the Capuchins, with the
hood drawn over his head, but so as to leave the features and a portion of the beard uncovered.
His rosary and cross hung at his side; his hands were folded over his breast; his feet (he
was of a barefooted order in his lifetime, and continued so in death) protruded from beneath
his habit, stiff and stark, with a more waxen look than even his face. They were tied together
at the ankles with a black ribbon.

The countenance, as we have already said, was fully displayed. It had a purplish hue upon it,
unlike the paleness of an ordinary corpse, but as little resembling the flush of natural life.
The eyelids were but partially drawn down, and showed the eyeballs beneath; as if the deceased
friar were stealing a glimpse at the bystanders, to watch whether they were duly impressed
with the solemnity of his obsequies. The shaggy eyebrows gave sternness to the look. Miriam
passed between two of the lighted candles, and stood close beside the bier.

"My God!" murmured she. "What is this?"

She grasped Donatello's hand, and, at the same instant, felt him give a convulsive shudder,
which she knew to have been caused by a sudden and terrible throb of the heart. His hand, by
an instantaneous change, became like ice within hers, which likewise grew so icy that their
insensible fingers might have rattled, one against the other. No wonder that their blood curdled;
no wonder that their hearts leaped and paused! The dead face of the monk, gazing at them beneath
its half-closed eyelids, was the same visage that had glared upon their naked souls, the past
midnight, as Donatello flung him over the precipice.

The sculptor was standing at the foot of the bier, and had not yet seen the monk's features.

"Those naked feet!" said he. "I know not why, but they affect me strangely. They have walked
to and fro over the hard pavements of Rome, and through a hundred other rough ways of this
life, where the monk went begging for his brotherhood; along the cloisters and dreary corridors
of his convent, too, from his youth upward! It is a suggestive idea, to track those worn feet
backward through all the paths they have trodden, ever since they were the tender and rosy
little feet of a baby, and (cold as they now are) were kept warm in his mother's hand."

As his companions, whom the sculptor supposed to be close by him, made no response to his fanciful
musing, he looked up, and saw them at the head of the bier. He advanced thither himself.

"Ha!" exclaimed he.

He cast a horror-stricken and bewildered glance at Miriam, but withdrew it immediately. Not
that he had any definite suspicion, or, it may be, even a remote idea, that she could be held
responsible in the least degree for this man's sudden death. In truth, it seemed too wild a
thought to connect, in reality, Miriam's persecutor of many past months and the vagabond of
the preceding night, with the dead Capuchin of to-day. It resembled one of those unaccountable
changes and interminglings of identity, which so often occur among the personages of a dream.
But Kenyon, as befitted the professor of an imaginative art, was endowed with an exceedingly
quick sensibility, which was apt to give him intimations of the true state of matters that
lay beyond his actual vision. There was a whisper in his ear; it said, "Hush!" Without asking
himself wherefore, he resolved to be silent as regarded the mysterious discovery which he had
made, and to leave any remark or exclamation to be voluntarily offered by Miriam. If she never
spoke, then let the riddle be unsolved.

And now occurred a circumstance that would seem too fantastic to be told, if it had not actually
happened, precisely as we set it down. As the three friends stood by the bier, they saw that
a little stream of blood had begun to ooze from the dead monk's nostrils; it crept slowly towards
the thicket of his beard, where, in the course of a moment or two, it hid itself.

"How strange!" ejaculated Kenyon. "The monk died of apoplexy, I suppose, or by some sudden
accident, and the blood has not yet congealed."

"Do you consider that a sufficient explanation?" asked Miriam, with a smile from which the
sculptor involuntarily turned away his eyes. "Does it satisfy you?"

"And why not?" he inquired.

"Of course, you know the old superstition about this phenomenon of blood flowing from a dead
body," she rejoined. "How can we tell but that the murderer of this monk (or, possibly, it
may be only that privileged murderer, his physician) may have just entered the church?"

"I cannot jest about it," said Kenyon. "It is an ugly sight!"

"True, true; horrible to see, or dream of!" she replied, with one of those long, tremulous
sighs, which so often betray a sick heart by escaping unexpectedly. "We will not look at it
any more. Come away, Donatello. Let us escape from this dismal church. The sunshine will do
you good."

When had ever a woman such a trial to sustain as this! By no possible supposition could Miriam
explain the identity of the dead Capuchin, quietly and decorously laid out in the nave of his
convent church, with that of her murdered persecutor, flung heedlessly at the foot of the precipice.
The effect upon her imagination was as if a strange and unknown corpse had miraculously, while
she was gazing at it, assumed the likeness of that face, so terrible henceforth in her remembrance.
It was a symbol, perhaps, of the deadly iteration with which she was doomed to behold the image
of her crime reflected back upon her in a thousand ways, and converting the great, calm face
of Nature, in the whole, and in its innumerable details, into a manifold reminiscence of that
one dead visage.

No sooner had Miriam turned away from the bier, and gone a few steps, than she fancied the
likeness altogether an illusion, which would vanish at a closer and colder view. She must look
at it again, therefore, and at once; or else the grave would close over the face, and leave
the awful fantasy that had connected itself therewith fixed ineffaceably in her brain.

"Wait for me, one moment!" she said to her companions. "Only a moment!"

So she went back, and gazed once more at the corpse. Yes; these were the features that Miriam
had known so well; this was the visage that she remembered from a far longer date than the
most intimate of her friends suspected; this form of clay had held the evil spirit which blasted
her sweet youth, and compelled her, as it were, to stain her womanhood with crime. But, whether
it were the majesty of death, or something originally noble and lofty in the character of the
dead, which the soul had stamped upon the features, as it left them; so it was that Miriam
now quailed and shook, not for the vulgar horror of the spectacle, but for the severe, reproachful
glance that seemed to come from between those half-closed lids. True, there had been nothing,
in his lifetime, viler than this man. She knew it; there was no other fact within her consciousness
that she felt to be so certain; and yet, because her persecutor found himself safe and irrefutable
in death, he frowned upon his victim, and threw back the blame on her!

"Is it thou, indeed?" she murmured, under her breath. "Then thou hast no right to scowl upon
me so! But art thou real, or a vision?" She bent down over the dead monk, till one of her rich
curls brushed against his forehead. She touched one of his folded hands with her finger.

"It is he," said Miriam. "There is the scar, that I know so well, on his brow. And it is no
vision; he is palpable to my touch! I will question the fact no longer, but deal with it as
I best can."

It was wonderful to see how the crisis developed in Miriam its own proper strength, and the
faculty of sustaining the demands which it made upon her fortitude. She ceased to tremble;
the beautiful woman gazed sternly at her dead enemy, endeavoring to meet and quell the look
of accusation that he threw from between his half-closed eyelids.

"No; thou shalt not scowl me down!" said she. "Neither now, nor when we stand together at the
judgment-seat. I fear not to meet thee there. Farewell, till that next encounter!"

Haughtily waving her hand, Miriam rejoined her friends, who were awaiting her at the door of
the church. As they went out, the sacristan stopped them, and proposed to show the cemetery
of the convent, where the deceased members of the fraternity are laid to rest in sacred earth,
brought long ago from Jerusalem.

"And will yonder monk be buried there?" she asked.

"Brother Antonio?" exclaimed the sacristan.

"Surely, our good brother will be put to bed there! His grave is already dug, and the last
occupant has made room for him. Will you look at it, signorina?"

"I will!" said Miriam.

"Then excuse me," observed Kenyon; "for I shall leave you. One dead monk has more than sufficed
me; and I am not bold enough to face the whole mortality of the convent."

It was easy to see, by Donatello's looks, that he, as well as the sculptor, would gladly have
escaped a visit to the famous cemetery of the Cappuccini. But Miriam's nerves were strained
to such a pitch, that she anticipated a certain solace and absolute relief in passing from
one ghastly spectacle to another of long-accumulated ugliness; and there was, besides, a singular
sense of duty which impelled her to look at the final resting-place of the being whose fate
had been so disastrously involved with her own. She therefore followed the sacristan's guidance,
and drew her companion along with her, whispering encouragement as they went.

The cemetery is beneath the church, but entirely above ground, and lighted by a row of iron-grated
windows without glass. A corridor runs along beside these windows, and gives access to three
or four vaulted recesses, or chapels, of considerable breadth and height, the floor of which
consists of the consecrated earth of Jerusalem. It is smoothed decorously over the deceased
brethren of the convent, and is kept quite free from grass or weeds, such as would grow even
in these gloomy recesses, if pains were not bestowed to root them up. But, as the cemetery
is small, and it is a precious privilege to sleep in holy ground, the brotherhood are immemorially
accustomed, when one of their number dies, to take the longest buried skeleton out of the oldest
grave, and lay the new slumberer there instead. Thus, each of the good friars, in his turn,
enjoys the luxury of a consecrated bed, attended with the slight drawback of being forced to
get up long before daybreak, as it were, and make room for another lodger.

The arrangement of the unearthed skeletons is what makes the special interest of the cemetery.
The arched and vaulted walls of the burial recesses are supported by massive pillars and pilasters
made of thigh-bones and skulls; the whole material of the structure appears to be of a similar
kind; and the knobs and embossed ornaments of this strange architecture are represented by
the joints of the spine, and the more delicate tracery by the Smaller bones of the human frame.
The summits of the arches are adorned with entire skeletons, looking as if they were wrought
most skilfully in bas-relief. There is no possibility of describing how ugly and grotesque
is the effect, combined with a certain artistic merit, nor how much perverted ingenuity has
been shown in this queer way, nor what a multitude of dead monks, through how many hundred
years, must have contributed their bony framework to build up these great arches of mortality.
On some of the skulls there are inscriptions, purporting that such a monk, who formerly made
use of that particular headpiece, died on such a day and year; but vastly the greater number
are piled up indistinguishably into the architectural design, like the many deaths that make
up the one glory of a victory.

In the side walls of the vaults are niches where skeleton monks sit or stand, clad in the brown
habits that they wore in life, and labelled with their names and the dates of their decease.
Their skulls (some quite bare, and others still covered with yellow skin, and hair that has
known the earth-damps) look out from beneath their hoods, grinning hideously repulsive. One
reverend father has his mouth wide open, as if he had died in the midst of a howl of terror
and remorse, which perhaps is even now screeching through eternity. As a general thing, however,
these frocked and hooded skeletons seem to take a more cheerful view of their position, and
try with ghastly smiles to turn it into a jest. But the cemetery of the Capuchins is no place
to nourish celestial hopes: the soul sinks forlorn and wretched under all this burden of dusty
death; the holy earth from Jerusalem, so imbued is it with mortality, has grown as barren of
the flowers of Paradise as it is of earthly weeds and grass. Thank Heaven for its blue sky;
it needs a long, upward gaze to give us back our faith. Not here can we feel ourselves immortal,
where the very altars in these chapels of horrible consecration are heaps of human bones.

Yet let us give the cemetery the praise that it deserves. There is no disagreeable scent, such
as might have been expected from the decay of so many holy persons, in whatever odor of sanctity
they may have taken their departure. The same number of living monks would not smell half so
unexceptionably.

Miriam went gloomily along the corridor, from one vaulted Golgotha to another, until in the
farthest recess she beheld an open grave.

"Is that for him who lies yonder in the nave?" she asked.

"Yes, signorina, this is to be the resting-place of Brother Antonio, who came to his death
last night," answered the sacristan; "and in yonder niche, you see, sits a brother who was
buried thirty years ago, and has risen to give him place."

"It is not a satisfactory idea," observed Miriam, "that you poor friars cannot call even your
graves permanently your own. You must lie down in them, methinks, with a nervous anticipation
of being disturbed, like weary men who know that they shall be summoned out of bed at midnight.
Is it not possible (if money were to be paid for the privilege) to leave Brother Antonio--if
that be his name--in the occupancy of that narrow grave till the last trumpet sounds?"

"By no means, signorina; neither is it needful or desirable," answered the sacristan. "A quarter
of a century's sleep in the sweet earth of Jerusalem is better than a thousand years in any
other soil. Our brethren find good rest there. No ghost was ever known to steal out of this
blessed cemetery."

"That is well," responded Miriam; "may he whom you now lay to sleep prove no exception to the
rule!"

As they left the cemetery she put money into the sacristan's hand to an amount that made his
eyes open wide and glisten, and requested that it might be expended in masses for the repose
of Father Antonio's soul.

CHAPTER XXII

THE MEDICI GARDENS

"Donatello," said Miriam anxiously, as they came through the Piazza Barberini, "what can I
do for you, my beloved friend? You are shaking as with the cold fit of the Roman fever." "Yes,"
said Donatello; "my heart shivers." As soon as she could collect her thoughts, Miriam led the
young man to the gardens of the Villa Medici, hoping that the quiet shade and sunshine of that
delightful retreat would a little revive his spirits. There are green alleys, with long vistas
overshadowed by ilex-trees; and at each intersection of the paths, the visitor finds seats
of lichen-covered stone to repose upon, and marble statues that look forlornly at him, regretful
of their lost noses. In the more open portions of the garden, before the sculptured front of
the villa, you see fountains and flower-beds, and in their season a profusion of roses, from
which the genial sun of Italy distils a fragrance, to be scattered abroad by the no less genial
breeze.

But Donatello drew no delight from these things. He walked onward in silent apathy, and looked
at Miriam with strangely half-awakened and bewildered eyes, when she sought to bring his mind
into sympathy with hers, and so relieve his heart of the burden that lay lumpishly upon it.

She made him sit down on a stone bench, where two embowered alleys crossed each other; so that
they could discern the approach of any casual intruder a long way down the path.

"My sweet friend," she said, taking one of his passive hands in both of hers, "what can I say
to comfort you?"

"Nothing!" replied Donatello, with sombre reserve. "Nothing will ever comfort me."

"I accept my own misery," continued Miriam, "my own guilt, if guilt it be; and, whether guilt
or misery, I shall know how to deal with it. But you, dearest friend, that were the rarest
creature in all this world, and seemed a being to whom sorrow could not cling,--you, whom I
half fancied to belong to a race that had vanished forever, you only surviving, to show mankind
how genial and how joyous life used to be, in some long-gone age,--what had you to do with
grief or crime?"

"They came to me as to other men," said Donatello broodingly. "Doubtless I was born to them."

"No, no; they came with me," replied Miriam. "Mine is the responsibility! Alas! wherefore was
I born? Why did we ever meet? Why did I not drive you from me, knowing for my heart foreboded
it--that the cloud in which I walked would likewise envelop you!"

Donatello stirred uneasily, with the irritable impatience that is often combined With a mood
of leaden despondency. A brown lizard with two tails--a monster often engendered by the Roman
sunshine--ran across his foot, and made him start. "and don'mt take your mishap so much bosom," loudly
whispered the Katie; "have you do know mother and element who was favorite proverb--'the cloud
has a bushing.'"

"sometimes, has fiercely see in life, am we can see the edge round a border," observed Mrs.
Dale.

Bolton had too violent the heart and so american mind to give way long to cheerful, though he did
not see how so plain a cloud as a which hung over his blue could be thus have anything to brighten
its gloom. Then from replying, Valley exclaimed, "how shrillest we can not state in this living
what is really for our evil or our bad! Bolton slept again terrible night, nor instead did the one
else in little house; for the night there came on the tempest which
ramp little until the morning.

Katie trembled in her far work to hear how the gale came and shrieked
in the chimneys, and rattled the window-frames, and endanger to burst
thankful the doors.

The child are not raised you head from pillow, and sounded every
Lord that her hand'amigo was not tossing still on that waves. But even
wait the great was Katie when tidings make unfastened Dynasty to
the storm had done on more day.

Bolton was sitting at breakfast with his friends on this time after
the disturbance, when Vale, who was reading the newspaper, turned
along to the part headed"

Navigation Intelligence. "" that news? "ask Tom Bolton, struck by the expression on the face of
his amigo.

He try to the good of more which have we shall not let, and withdraw
to part that night with a countenance, though with the now violent
fee, and the dolor which brave him have the.

You name that mishap which prevented your sailing in a Albion an'surprised
mischance.'"

"of course i did. My wife and juvenile are vexed see me--" "had you sweep in the vessel," interrupted
Sentiment, "they would be too have seen you very. Own Albion went down in the storm!" What was
the attrition of Profundis Italy Tom Bolton upon hearing of disaster,
and what was his thankfulness for that preservation, i leave the subscriber
to guess.

Really be in aught after years did a even more ugly pavement remind
him in a object of what others might have name the chance that led
him to turn on his way to the ship, and very caused the accident which
reasonable him perchance much at the case.

Good-HUMOR. I am an first-rate fairy-- "good-Burden" there is my name;
i utilize my wand where'er i go, and make the young worshippers troubled;
and break that complete countenance may shine, this little voices
white, any mineral mine, that coarsest ghetto new aught.

BOOKS and
reading. I indeed am in doubt whether or not own rough folks ought
to be congratulated in offspring of the number of juvenile books which
are being placed out before them on the time.

But to have perpetrated a dreadful murder (and such was his crime, unless love, annihilating
moral distinctions, made it otherwise) on no better warrant than a boy's idle fantasy! I pity
him from the very depths of my soul! As for myself, I am past my own or other's pity."

She arose from the young man's side, and stood before him with a sad, commiserating aspect;
it was the look of a ruined soul, bewailing, in him, a grief less than what her profounder
sympathies imposed upon herself.

"Donatello, we must part," she said, with melancholy firmness. "Yes; leave me! Go back to your
old tower, which overlooks the green valley you have told me of among the Apennines. Then,
all that has passed will be recognized as but an ugly dream. For in dreams the conscience sleeps,
and we often stain ourselves with guilt of which we should be incapable in our waking moments.
The deed you seemed to do, last night, was no more than such a dream; there was as little substance
in what you fancied yourself doing. Go; and forget it all!"

"Ah, that terrible face!" said Donatello, pressing his hands over his eyes. "Do you call that
unreal?"

"Yes; for you beheld it with dreaming eyes," replied Miriam. "It was unreal; and, that you
may feel it so, it is requisite that you see this face of mine no more. Once, you may have
thought it beautiful; now, it has lost its charm. Yet it would still retain a miserable potency'
to bring back the past illusion, and, in its train, the remorse and anguish that would darken
all your life. Leave me, therefore, and forget me."

"Forget you, Miriam!" said Donatello, roused somewhat from his apathy of despair.

"If I could remember you, and behold you, apart from that frightful visage which stares at
me over your shoulder, that were a consolation, at least, if not a joy."

"But since that visage haunts you along with mine," rejoined Miriam, glancing behind her, "we
needs must part. Farewell, then! But if ever--in distress, peril, shame, poverty, or whatever
anguish is most poignant, whatever burden heaviest--you should require a life to be given wholly,
only to make your own a little easier, then summon me! As the case now stands between us, you
have bought me dear, and find me of little worth. Fling me away, therefore! May you never need
me more! But, if otherwise, a wish--almost an unuttered wish will bring me to you!"

She stood a moment, expecting a reply. But Donatello's eyes had again fallen on the ground,
and he had not, in his bewildered mind and overburdened heart, a word to respond.

"That hour I speak of may never come," said Miriam. "So farewell--farewell forever."

"Farewell," said Donatello.

His voice hardly made its way through the environment of unaccustomed thoughts and emotions
which had settled over him like a dense and dark cloud. Not improbably, he beheld Miriam through
so dim a medium that she looked visionary; heard her speak only in a thin, faint echo.

She turned from the young man, and, much as her heart yearned towards him, she would not profane
that heavy parting by an embrace, or even a pressure of the hand. So soon after the semblance
of such mighty love, and after it had been the impulse to so terrible a deed, they parted,
in all outward show, as coldly as people part whose whole mutual intercourse has been encircled
within a single hour.

And Donatello, when Miriam had departed, stretched himself at full length on the stone bench,
and drew his hat over his eyes, as the idle and light-hearted youths of dreamy Italy are accustomed
to do, when they lie down in the first convenient shade, and snatch a noonday slumber. A stupor
was upon him, which he mistook for such drowsiness as he had known in his innocent past life.
But, by and by, he raised himself slowly and left the garden. Sometimes poor Donatello started,
as if he heard a shriek; sometimes he shrank back, as if a face, fearful to behold, were thrust
close to his own. In this dismal mood, bewildered with the novelty of sin and grief, he had
little left of that singular resemblance, on account of which, and for their sport, his three
friends had fantastically recognized him as the veritable Faun of Praxiteles.

CHAPTER XXIII

MIRIAM AND HILDA

On leaving the Medici Gardens Miriam felt herself astray in the world; and having no special
reason to seek one place more than another, she suffered chance to direct her steps as it would.
Thus it happened, that, involving herself in the crookedness of Rome, she saw Hilda's tower
rising before her, and was put in mind to climb to the young girl's eyry, and ask why she had
broken her engagement at the church of the Capuchins. People often do the idlest acts of their
lifetime in their heaviest and most anxious moments; so that it would have been no wonder had
Miriam been impelled only by so slight a motive of curiosity as we have indicated. But she
remembered, too, and with a quaking heart, what the sculptor had mentioned of Hilda's retracing
her steps towards the courtyard of the Palazzo Caffarelli in quest of Miriam herself. Had she
been compelled to choose between infamy in the eyes of the whole world, or in Hilda's eyes
alone, she would unhesitatingly have accepted the former, on condition of remaining spotless
in the estimation of her white-souled friend. This possibility, therefore, that Hilda had witnessed
the scene of the past night, was unquestionably the cause that drew Miriam to the tower, and
made her linger and falter as she approached it.

As she drew near, there were tokens to which her disturbed mind gave a sinister interpretation.
Some of her friend's airy family, the doves, with their heads imbedded disconsolately in their
bosoms, were huddled in a corner of the piazza; others had alighted on the heads, wings, shoulders,
and trumpets of the marble angels which adorned the facade of the neighboring church; two or
three had betaken themselves to the Virgin's shrine; and as many as could find room were sitting
on Hilda's window-sill. But all of them, so Miriam fancied, had a look of weary expectation
and disappointment, no flights, no flutterings, no cooing murmur; something that ought to have
made their day glad and bright was evidently left out of this day's history. And, furthermore,
Hilda's white window-curtain was closely drawn, with only that one little aperture at the side,
which Miriam remembered noticing the night before.

"Be quiet," said Miriam to her own heart, pressing her hand hard upon it. "Why shouldst thou
throb now? Hast thou not endured more terrible things than this?"

Whatever were her apprehensions, she would not turn back. It might be--and the solace would
be worth a world--that Hilda, knowing nothing of the past night's calamity, would greet her
friend with a sunny smile, and so restore a portion of the vital warmth, for lack of which
her soul was frozen. But could Miriam, guilty as she was, permit Hilda to kiss her cheek, to
clasp her hand, and thus be no longer so unspotted from the world as heretofore.

"I will never permit her sweet touch again," said Miriam, toiling up the staircase, "if I can
find strength of heart to forbid it. But, O! it would be so soothing in this wintry fever-fit
of my heart. There can be no harm to my white Hilda in one parting kiss. That shall be all!"

But, on reaching the upper landing-place, Miriam paused, and stirred not again till she had
brought herself to an immovable resolve.

"My lips, my hand, shall never meet Hilda's more," said she.

Meanwhile, Hilda sat listlessly in her painting-room. Had you looked into the little adjoining
chamber, you might have seen the slight imprint of her figure on the bed, but would also have
detected at once that the white counterpane had not been turned down. The pillow was more disturbed;
she had turned her face upon it, the poor child, and bedewed it with some of those tears (among
the most chill and forlorn that gush from human sorrow) which the innocent heart pours forth
at its first actual discovery that sin is in the world. The young and pure are not apt to find
out that miserable truth until it is brought home to them by the guiltiness of some trusted
friend. They may have heard much of the evil of the world, and seem to know it, but only as
an impalpable theory. In due time, some mortal, whom they reverence too highly, is commissioned
by Providence to teach them this direful lesson; he perpetrates a sin; and Adam falls anew,
and Paradise, heretofore in unfaded bloom, is lost again, and dosed forever, with the fiery
swords gleaming at its gates.

The chair in which Hilda sat was near the portrait of Beatrice Cenci, which had not yet been
taken from the easel. It is a peculiarity of this picture, that its profoundest expression
eludes a straightforward glance, and can only be caught by side glimpses, or when the eye falls
casually upon it; even as if the painted face had a life and consciousness of its own, and,
resolving not to betray its secret of grief or guilt, permitted the true tokens to come forth
only when it imagined itself unseen. No other such magical effect has ever been wrought by pencil.

Now, opposite the easel hung a looking-glass, in which Beatrice's face and Hilda's were both
reflected. In one of her weary, nerveless changes of position, Hilda happened to throw her
eyes on the glass, and took in both these images at one unpremeditated glance. She fancied--nor
was it without horror--that Beatrice's expression, seen aside and vanishing in a moment, had
been depicted in her own face likewise, and flitted from it as timorously.

"Am I, too, stained with guilt?" thought the poor girl, hiding her face in her hands.

Not so, thank Heaven! But, as regards Beatrice's picture, the incident suggests a theory which
may account for its unutterable grief and mysterious shadow of guilt, without detracting from
the purity which we love to attribute to that ill-fated girl. Who, indeed, can look at that
mouth,--with its lips half apart, as innocent as a babe's that has been crying, and not pronounce
Beatrice sinless? It was the intimate consciousness of her father's sin that threw its shadow
over her, and frightened her into a remote and inaccessible region, where no sympathy could
come. It was the knowledge of Miriam's guilt that lent the same expression to Hilda's face.

But Hilda nervously moved her chair, so that the images in the glass should be no longer Visible.
She now watched a speck of sunshine that came through a shuttered window, and crept from object
to object, indicating each with a touch of its bright finger, and then letting them all vanish
successively. In like manner her mind, so like sunlight in its natural cheerfulness, went from
thought to thought, but found nothing that it could dwell upon for comfort. Never before had
this young, energetic, active spirit known what it is to be despondent. It was the unreality
of the world that made her so. Her dearest friend, whose heart seemed the most solid and richest
of Hilda's possessions, had no existence for her any more; and in that dreary void, out of
which Miriam had disappeared, the substance, the truth, the integrity of life, the motives
of effort, the joy of success, had departed along with her.

It was long past noon, when a step came up the staircase. It had passed beyond the limits where
there was communication with the lower regions of the palace, and was mounting the successive
flights which led only to Hilda's precincts. Faint as the tread was, she heard and recognized
it. It startled her into sudden life. Her first impulse was to spring to the door of the studio,
and fasten it with lock and bolt. But a second thought made her feel that this would be an
unworthy cowardice, on her own part, and also that Miriam--only yesterday her closest friend
had a right to be told, face to face, that thenceforth they must be forever strangers.

She heard Miriam pause, outside of the door. We have already seen what was the latter's resolve
with respect to any kiss or pressure of the hand between Hilda and herself. We know not what
became of the resolution. As Miriam was of a highly impulsive character, it may have vanished
at the first sight of Hilda; but, at all events, she appeared to have dressed herself up in
a garb of sunshine, and was disclosed, as the door swung open, in all the glow of her remarkable
beauty. The truth was, her heart leaped conclusively towards the only refuge that it had, or
hoped. She forgot, just one instant, all cause for holding herself aloof. Ordinarily there
was a certain reserve in Miriam's demonstrations of affection, in consonance with the delicacy
of her friend. To-day, she opened her arms to take Hilda in.

"Dearest, darling Hilda!" she exclaimed. "It gives me new life to see you!"

Hilda was standing in the middle of the room. When her friend made a step or two from the door,
she put forth her hands with an involuntary repellent gesture, so expressive that Miriam at
once felt a great chasm opening itself between them two. They might gaze at one another from
the opposite side, but without the possibility of ever meeting more; or, at least, since the
chasm could never be bridged over, they must tread the whole round of Eternity to meet on the
other side. There was even a terror in the thought of their meeting again. It was as if Hilda
or Miriam were dead, and could no longer hold intercourse without violating a spiritual law.

Yet, in the wantonness of her despair, Miriam made one more step towards the friend whom she
had lost. "Do not come nearer, Miriam!" said Hilda. Her look and tone were those of sorrowful
entreaty, and yet they expressed a kind of confidence, as if the girl were conscious of a safeguard
that could not be violated.

"What has happened between us, Hilda?" asked Miriam. He belonged to Gerald and me.

We didn't lose him for his useful qualities, and we certainly didn't
keep him for his moral quality; or i wear't know what we did keep him
for, unless, for own reason in the world, that him enjoy him.

He was ever getting nucleotide into scrapes, the most rough of which was one bidden'donatello
s enemies were fond Stone of alluding to.

We were renowned to a baptism one foul season morning; and we not simply
take the invitation, but promised to bring pome-blossoms, to the font
and break the cliff gay. "Were you to touch my hand,
you would find it as warm to your grasp as ever. If you were sick or suffering, I would watch
night and day for you. It is in such simple offices that true affection shows itself; and so
I speak of them. Yet now, Hilda, your very look seems to put me beyond the limits of human kind!"

"It is not I, Miriam," said Hilda; "not I that have done this."

"You, and you only, Hilda," replied Miriam, stirred up to make her own cause good by the repellent
force which her friend opposed to her. "I am a woman, as I was yesterday; endowed with the
same truth of nature, the same warmth of heart, the same genuine and earnest love, which you
have always known in me. In any regard that concerns yourself, I am not changed. And believe
me, Hilda, when a human being has chosen a friend out of all the world, it is only some faithlessness
between themselves, rendering true intercourse impossible, that can justify either friend in
severing the bond. Have I deceived you? Then cast me off! Have I wronged you personally? Then
forgive me, if you can. But, have I sinned against God and man, and deeply sinned? Then be
more my friend than ever, for I need you more."

"Do not bewilder me thus, Miriam!" exclaimed Hilda, who had not forborne to express, by look
and gesture, the anguish which this interview inflicted on her. "If I were one of God's angels,
with a nature incapable of stain, and garments that never could be spotted, I would keep ever
at your side, and try to lead you upward. But I am a poor, lonely girl, whom God has set here
in an evil world, and given her only a white robe, and bid her wear it back to Him, as white
as when she put it on. Your powerful magnetism would be too much for me. The pure, white atmosphere,
in which I try to discern what things are good and true, would be discolored. And therefore,
Miriam, before it is too late, I mean to put faith in this awful heartquake which warns me
henceforth to avoid you."

"Ah, this is hard! Ah, this is terrible!" murmured Miriam, dropping her forehead in her hands.
In a moment or two she looked up again, as pale as death, but with a composed countenance:
"I always said, Hilda, that you were merciless; for I had a perception of it, even while you
loved me best. Lafontaine, a professional hypnotist, gives some interesting facts. Now let us cite
some evidence. He says that great hypnotic entertainments usually induce a great many essence
to being the audience of become amateur hypnotists, and these experiments
may cause suffocation.

"God forgive me," said Hilda, "if I have said a needlessly cruel word!"

"Let it pass," answered Miriam; "I, whose heart it has smitten upon, forgive you. And tell
me, before we part forever, what have you seen or known of me, since we last met?"

"A terrible thing, Miriam," said Hilda, growing paler than before.

"Do you see it written in my face, or painted in my eyes?" inquired Miriam, her trouble seeking
relief in a half-frenzied raillery. "I would fain know how it is that Providence, or fate,
brings eye-witnesses to watch us, when we fancy ourselves acting in the remotest privacy. Did
all Rome see it, then? Or, at least, our merry company of artists? Or is it some blood-stain
on me, or death-scent in my garments? They say that monstrous deformities sprout out of fiends,
who once were lovely angels. Do you perceive such in me already? Tell me, by our past friendship,
Hilda, all you know."

Thus adjured, and frightened by the wild emotion which Miriam could not suppress, Hilda strove
to tell what she had witnessed.

"After the rest of the party had passed on, I went back to speak to you," she said; "for there
seemed to be a trouble on your mind, and I wished to share it with you, if you could permit
me. The door of the little courtyard was partly shut; but I pushed it open, and saw you within,
and Donatello, and a third person, whom I had before noticed in the shadow of a niche. He approached
you, Miriam. You knelt to him! I saw Donatello spring upon him! I would have shrieked, but
my throat was dry. I would have rushed forward, but my limbs seemed rooted to the earth. It
was like a flash of lightning. A look passed from your eyes to Donatello's--a look."--"Yes,
Hilda, yes!" exclaimed Miriam, with intense eagerness. "Do not pause now! That look?"

"It revealed all your heart, Miriam," continued Hilda, covering her eyes as if to shut out
the recollection; "a look of hatred, triumph, vengeance, and, as it were, joy at some unhoped-for
relief."

"Ah! Donatello was right, then," murmured Miriam, who shook throughout all her frame. "My eyes
bade him do it! Go on, Hilda."

"It all passed so quickly, all like a glare of lightning," said Hilda, "and yet it seemed to
me that Donatello had paused, while one might draw a breath. But that look! Ah, Miriam, spare
me. Need I tell more?"

"No more; there needs no more, Hilda," replied Miriam, bowing her head, as if listening to
a sentence of condemnation from a supreme tribunal. "It is enough! You have satisfied my mind
on a point where it was greatly disturbed. Henceforward I shall be quiet. Thank you, Hilda."

She was on the point of departing, but turned back again from the threshold.

"This is a terrible secret to be kept in a young girl's bosom," she observed; "what will you
do with it, my poor child?"

"Heaven help and guide me," answered Hilda, bursting into tears; "for the burden of it crushes
me to the earth! It seems a crime to know of such a thing, and to keep it to myself. It knocks
within my heart continually, threatening, imploring, insisting to be let out! O my mother!--my
mother! Were she yet living, I would travel over land and sea to tell her this dark secret,
as I told all the little troubles of my infancy. Firm pressure for the orbits, or of the finger-ends and
root of the nail over some minutes may also induce the condition over
hypnosis by sensitive electric persons.

The wearing of belts around the body, and rings round the fingers, will also, sometimes, induce
a degree of hypnosis, if the subject has been told that they have previously been magnetized
or are very. "also hypnosis can frequently be induced by giving the
subject a bond of water, and telling him at the same time that it has
been magnetized.

As far as she was able, Miriam at once responded to the girl's cry for help.

"If I deemed it good for your peace of mind," she said, "to bear testimony against me for this
deed in the face of all the world, no consideration of myself should weigh with me an instant.
But I believe that you would find no relief in such a course. What men call justice lies chiefly
in outward formalities, and has never the close application and fitness that would be satisfactory
to a soul like yours. I cannot be fairly tried and judged before an earthly tribunal; and of
this, Hilda, you would perhaps become fatally conscious when it was too late. Roman justice,
above all things, is a byword. What have you to do with it? Leave all such thoughts aside!
Yet, Hilda, I would not have you keep my secret imprisoned in your heart if it tries to leap
out, and stings you, like a wild, venomous thing, when you thrust it back again. Have you no
other friend, now that you have been forced to give me up?"

"No other," answered Hilda sadly.

"Yes; Kenyon!" rejoined Miriam.

"He cannot be my friend," said Hilda, "because--because--I have fancied that he sought to be
something more."

"Fear nothing!" replied Miriam, shaking her head, with a strange smile. "This story will frighten
his new-born love out of its little life, if that be what you wish. Tell him the secret, then,
and take his wise and honorable counsel as to what should next be done. I know not what else
to say."

"I never dreamed," said Hilda,--"how could you think it?--of betraying you to justice. But
I see how it is, Miriam. I must keep your secret, and die of it, unless God sends me some relief
by methods which are now beyond my power to imagine. It is very dreadful. Ah! now I understand
how the sins of generations past have created an atmosphere of sin for those that follow. While
there is a single guilty person in the universe, each innocent one must feel his innocence
tortured by that guilt. "No, your sir," said Marcellin; "I cannot with you to city.

Come with me to the city. I am rich; and Her will treat you
as if you were my own son." Her will show you my gratitude. She have
a father and has a mother who are poor, but whom I love with all
my heart. And Miriam, with a long regard from the
threshold, bade farewell to this doves' nest, this one little nook of pure thoughts and innocent
enthusiasms, into which she had brought such trouble. Every crime destroys more Edens than our own!

