Something of the serenity faded from Terry's face as he turned to explain: "I had been up there
several times, and had noticed a deep crevice that split the platform from the parent rock.
It would have fallen within a few months. I carried up some softwood wedges, drove them into
the fault, poured in a lot of water and expansion did the rest."

The Major visualized the toil and peril of lugging heavy logs up the spiral trail at night.
"Why didn't you let me help?" he demanded.

"Well, Ahma kept guard for me, and that was enough. If I had been caught I could probably have
talked myself out of the scrape, but it might have gone harder with you. Luckily the timbers
I used for wedges were buried in the slide."

The Major's face clouded swiftly: "Say, Terry! That scoundrel Pud-Pud said that he saw you
that night--he can ruin the thing yet if he talks!"

Terry shook his head, a little sorrowfully: "No, Pud-Pud will never talk to anybody about anything
again. I got to Ohto too late: they had already executed sentence."

"What did they do with him?"

"Shot him full of darts and turned him loose in the Dark Forest. So I confessed to Ohto that
I contrived the 'sign.' Of course I made him understand that you had nothing to do with the--trickery."

"What did he say--what is he going to do about it?" The Major was anxious.

"He had known about it all the time--his men have trailed every step we have taken, watched
everything we have done."

A slow blush mounted the Major's rugged features as he thought of the possibility that secret
onlookers had witnessed his meeting with Ahma just before the wedding ceremony when he had
sought to teach her the White Man's customs of caress. The flush persisted as he turned to Terry.

"There's one thing I forgot to ask you to buy for me. I want a good talking machine, with plenty
of records." He paused, then continued abstractedly: "She can keep it in her house."

Terry looked up in astonishment. "In her house? Aren't you both going to live in the same house?"

"No. Not till you send a missionary up here to marry us. I don't figure that two days of savage
rites constitutes a marriage--but I'm going to have a deuce of a time trying to explain it
to Ahma!"

Terry nodded sympathetically and walked the springy floor a dozen times, nonplussed by the
Major's dilemma. Pausing in his preoccupation before the open window he noted vaguely that
the nuptial fires were yellowing before the approach of dawn: a moment and he started violently
as the solution struck him and he whirled upon the dejected groom with beaming countenance.

"Say!" he shouted, "I'm certainly not going down with you two only half-married--she a bride
and you not a groom! You forget that as Senior Inspector of Constabulary I am an ex-officio
Justice of the Peace! Come on!"

He lifted the Major by the arm and shot him through the doorway with an exuberant shove that
left him no alternative save a jarring leap to the ground. Terry landed beside him as light
as a cat, and catching him by the elbow he hurried him on through the woods and into the fading
light of the big fires that burned before Ohto's house.

Terry, his eyes dancing joyously, broke up the dance with which a hundred Hill People were
keeping the ceremonial pot boiling, and despatched two women to fetch the bride, who had sought
a brief respite from the interminable ritual. Shortly Ahma appeared before them, her dark eyes
shadowed with fatigue, but radiant with exaltation.

Understanding from Terry's few words that the Major desired that they be united also in accordance
with the rites of his own people, she stepped quietly before Terry and took the Major's outstretched
hand. The crowd of natives, who had crowded about them, waited the alien ritual curiously.

Ahma was clad in the white costume in which the Major had first seen her. A scarlet hibiscus
blossom, the Hillmen's nuptial flower, was thrust in her black hair, but there was no other
addition to her scant covering.

Possessed of a sudden spirit of banter Terry turned to the Major: "Before I begin, Major, I
wish to congratulate you upon having won to the bliss of matrimony without violating that bachelor
formula which you so often boasted."

"What formula?"

Terry's voice deepened in mimicry: "'No petticoats for mine!'"

A moment he enjoyed the Major's embarrassment, then composed himself to the business in hand,
happy, confident.

But--the competent Terry fumbled. Swept away in the exuberance of having found a way out for
the Major, he had forgotten that, never having exercised his legal privilege of joining in
marriage in a province where all of the natives were either Catholic or Mohammedan, he was
wanting in the phraseology the ceremony demanded.

Vainly he sought inspiration in a sky chill with the pale lights of daybreak. He shuffled his
feet nervously, scowled at the ring of brown-skinned spectators, looked at his watch. As the
sweat of worry appeared upon his white forehead he drew his handkerchief and wiped his face
vigorously, then blew his nose resoundingly. This last device seemed to serve.

He turned to the serene couple who waited patiently: "Do you, John Bronner, take this woman,
Ahma--Ahma of the Hills, to be your lawful wedded wife, to love and cherish and to--er--provide
for?"

"I do," said the Major. He was proud of Terry--trust the Constabulary to see a thing through!

Terry was triumphant in his success. He unconsciously drew up his slim, muscular figure as
he turned to the bride, focussing his gaze upon the blossom in the waves of jet locks that
tumbled smoothly about the downcast head.

"And do you, Ahma of the Hills, take this man, John Bronner, to be your wedded lawful husband,
to love and to--er--care for when he--er--is sick?"

She caught the groom's whispered instructions and grasped the wonderful import of the unknown
words that Terry had spoken. Twice her silent lips formed the two words of response in soundless
practice, then she looked up squarely into Terry's eyes and pronounced them.

"I do."

Either the clear voice was too rich with gladness, or else she should not have turned the starry
eyes so suddenly upon him. Lost for a long moment in the splendor of the vision opened up to
him, he forced himself back to the duty of the minute. But he was off the track again.

He floundered for an opening. Bits of biblical and legal phrases raced through his tortured
brain, but none seemed appropriate to this situation. The haunt of the dark eyes obscured his
vision, the limpid "I do," filled his ears. "I do." The significance of the words brought him
back to the point of interruption, and he turned to them, desperate, vague.

"You do? You do, eh--you both do ... well, ... join hands! I do say and declare this twenty-third
day of January that you are man and wife in accord with the law of this land, and now--"

He glared at the grinning beneficiary of the service, and finished: "And now--and now what
I--what God and I have joined let no man put asunder ... till death do us part ... so help
me God, Amen!"

In an agony of torment he ripped through the crowd and raced to the shack, where the Major
joined him after taking Ahma into Ohto's house. It was now broad daylight, and the huts were
emptying of the crowd waking to take up the burden of fiesta.

Terry buckled up his pack, joining in the Major's mirth.

"But you are married all right. I will send you up a certificate as soon as I reach Zamboanga,
all signed and sealed and everything."

They became serious in thought of imminent separation. Now that the time had come Terry dreaded
leaving his friend alone in the Hills.

"I will relieve you in three months, Major," he said.

"You needn't hurry--don't forget I'm on a honeymoon, too!"

Terry hesitated, then risked the question that had been bothering him: "After we come--what
are you going to do? Will Ahma be ready to go below?"

"No, she will not. I am figuring on leaving her here a few months--your wife can teach her
to--to dress, and all that. And I can't take her away so long as Ohto lives. After that, I
want to take her to the States. She learns fast, Terry,--and I want her to see Europe--she
will learn a lot there, too!"

The old woman brought them their breakfast. The Major hurried through the meal and left to
secure a guide to take Terry down, explaining that he would join him in the woods. Terry ate
under the sorrowing eyes of the faithful woman, and when he finished he presented her with
the only gaud that remained to him, the gold medallion from his fob. She scurried out to display
it, the proudest woman, save one, in all the Hills.

Slinging the pack across his shoulders he turned for a last look at the little hut that had
sheltered him. Within its cramped walls he had suffered, had known grave peril, and great joy.
A hint of the old wistfulness flickered about the corner of his mouth, then he left the hut
and strode through the clearing into the woods, halting to wave cheerfully at the Hillmen who
somberly watched the departure of their future chief.

He dipped over the edge of the plateau and found the Major awaiting him with Ahma and the young
warrior who was to guide him down. From where they stood at the edge of a wide glade they could
see far down over the tops of the trees that matted the slope. In the clear morning air the
mists which gleamed over the distant Gulf shone white as billowed snow. There lay Davao! Davao,
then Zamboanga, then--! A fiercely glad light blazed in Terry's gray eyes, then darkened in
anticipation of leaving the Major alone and with that melancholy with which all men face the
knowledge that even as Life turns the pages of existence into its happiest chapter, she closes
each finished page forever.

The Major spoke first. "This guide knows the shortest route. He will take you safe past all
the man traps--you should sleep but one night on the trail. Give my regards to Lindsey, Sears,--everybody."

Ahma looked from one to the other, not quite understanding what they said, but understanding
fully what they did not say. That showed in the face of each.

"Major, I have never said anything about your--how I feel about your risking the Hills to search
for me, when it meant almost certain death."

Death!... For an instant the Major again stood helpless in the dark woods behind Lindsey's
plantation embraced in coils of steel that quivered, and heard the crash of delivering shots....
He searched the white face, in which the lines of suffering from a chivalrously contracted
fever still lingered. An extraordinary warm cataract suddenly obscured his vision.

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he spluttered. "Good-by."

Their hands gripped hard in an abiding friendship, then Terry turned to Ahma doubtfully, at
a loss as to how to bid adieu to this creature of the Hills who knew so few of the white man's
words or usages. He found, too, a source of embarrassment in her new capacity of wife. As she
gazed up at him he looked away in boyish confusion.

The Major grasped the situation and addressed her very slowly in English: "Ahma, say good-by
to him."

As she nodded brightly, understanding, the Major turned to Terry as proud as Punch: "You see--she
is learning fast! Can't you imagine her, all dressed up and everything, in Europe?"

Terry focussed his eyes safely upon the white line that marked the part in her hair, and carefully
pronounced each English word.

"Ahma, I am leaving for a while. Understand?"

She bobbed the dark head: "I do," she said.

The memories wrought by the limpid "I do" were a bit unsettling. He addressed the jet locks
again: "Good-by."

She looked at the capable hand he extended toward her, puzzled at the gesture, then looked
at the Major. He said a single word in dialect and her small white teeth glistened in a smile
of comprehension. She approached close to Terry.

"I know. You say--good-night. I know how--to good-night."

Her concentration upon the unaccustomed pronunciations was bewitching. To relieve the strain
of embarrassment he felt in her closeness to him, he turned to the grinning Major.

"As you say--she does learn quickly," he offered, rather vaguely.

She came closer still. "Yes, I know--how to--good-night!" she trilled: "Good-night is kiss!"

She called it "Keez" but Terry understood. If he did not then he did an instant later when
he felt the clasp of warm round arms, the molding pressure of a soft form and the swift impress
of full sensitive lips.

Loosed, he straightened up. His blush was explosive. Bewildered, he shrugged the light pack
higher on his shoulders and gestured his readiness to the warrior who had stood watching the
inexplicable ways of these strange white folk.

Following the Hillman, Terry set off across the glade. Midway down the green sward he wheeled.

"I should say she DOES learn fast!" he called. "You won't need to take HER to Europe!"

The two stood watching him as he followed the powerful little savage. As the forest swallowed
up the slim form the Major blinked rapidly, and gripped the little hand he held.

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he exclaimed huskily. "But won't they be glad to see him in Davao! And in
Zamboanga!"

CHAPTER XVIII

THE FOX SKIN

Terry pushed the hardy Hillman to his limit, so that when night fell they were far down among
the foothills, the Dark Forest behind them. At daylight the Hillman was proudly mounting homeward,
Terry's belt tightly buckled about his naked trunk. The white man's last dispensable possession
had gone as a reward for the service.

Terry's joyous urge carried him swiftly, so that in an hour he dropped out of the foothills
and into the heat of the jungled lowlands. At noon he climbed Sears' steps and dropped into
a porch chair, his clothes wet with perspiration and torn by contact with brush and thorn,
for he had cut straight through the woods.

He had nearly emptied Sears' water bottle when he saw the big planter coming out of a wonderful
growth of hemp. Sears advanced slowly, deep in thought, not looking up till he had mounted
the last step. At sight of Terry's grinning features he recoiled violently, then as the lad
rose, he jumped forward to wring his hand furiously. Incapable of coherent speech for several
minutes, he at last mastered his vocal cords.

"Man! I thought you were a ghost!" he cried.

Terry sketched his journey into the Hills, and added a brief account of the experiences he
and the Major had undergone. Learning that the Major was also safe, Sears called a Bogobo boy
and issued instructions that sent him scurrying into one of the Bogobo huts. In a few minutes
he returned bearing a small agong and striker.

Under Sears' directions he hung it upon a pole in front of the house and struck it sharply,
again and again. As the deep notes carried out through the still, hot woods Sears motioned
to him to desist and turned to Terry.

"Listen!" he exclaimed, intent, his hand on Terry's shoulder.

In a moment another agong, somewhere close to the south, sounded several times, then another
further away, then another, another. Soon the noon stillness of the brush pulsed with the mystic
multi-tones of scores of far agongs rung from plantations. Slowly the murmur grew as hundreds
of agongs rung by Bogobos in the foothills took up the signal, flooding the hemplands with
a glad, bronze chorus.

Sears gripped Terry's shoulder hard, his eyes brimming.

"That's the signal we fixed up," he said. "Welcome home!"

