"Soap, you know--soap.  That is what I want--soap.  S-o-a-p, soap; s-o-p-e, soap; s-o-u-p,
soap.  Hurry up!  I don't know how you Irish spell it, but I want it.  Spell it to suit yourself,
but fetch it.  I'm freezing."

I heard the doctor say impressively:

"Dan, how often have we told you that these foreigners cannot understand English?  Why will
you not depend upon us?  Why will you not tell us what you want, and let us ask for it in the
language of the country?  It would save us a great deal of the humiliation your reprehensible
ignorance causes us.  I will address this person in his mother tongue: 'Here, cospetto! corpo
di Bacco!  Sacramento!  Solferino!--Soap, you son of a gun!'  Dan, if you would let us talk
for you, you would never expose your ignorant vulgarity."

Even this fluent discharge of Italian did not bring the soap at once, but there was a good
reason for it.  There was not such an article about the establishment.  It is my belief that
there never had been.  They had to send far up town, and to several different places before
they finally got it, so they said.  We had to wait twenty or thirty minutes.  The same thing
had occurred the evening before, at the hotel.  I think I have divined the reason for this
state of things at last.  The English know how to travel comfortably, and they carry soap with
them; other foreigners do not use the article.

At every hotel we stop at we always have to send out for soap, at the last moment, when we
are grooming ourselves for dinner, and they put it in the bill along with the candles and other
nonsense.  In Marseilles they make half the fancy toilet soap we consume in America, but the
Marseillaise only have a vague theoretical idea of its use, which they have obtained from books
of travel, just as they have acquired an uncertain notion of clean shirts, and the peculiarities
of the gorilla, and other curious matters.  This reminds me of poor Blucher's note to the landlord
in Paris:

     PARIS, le 7 Juillet.  Monsieur le Landlord--Sir: Pourquoi don't you
     mettez some savon in your bed-chambers?  Est-ce que vous pensez I
     will steal it?  La nuit passee you charged me pour deux chandelles
     when I only had one; hier vous avez charged me avec glace when I had
     none at all; tout les jours you are coming some fresh game or other
     on me, mais vous ne pouvez pas play this savon dodge on me twice.
     Savon is a necessary de la vie to any body but a Frenchman, et je
     l'aurai hors de cet hotel or make trouble.  You hear me.  Allons.
     BLUCHER.

I remonstrated against the sending of this note, because it was so mixed up that the landlord
would never be able to make head or tail of it; but Blucher said he guessed the old man could
read the French of it and average the rest.

Blucher's French is bad enough, but it is not much worse than the English one finds in advertisements
all over Italy every day.  For instance, observe the printed card of the hotel we shall probably
stop at on the shores of Lake Como:

     "NOTISH."

     "This hotel which the best it is in Italy and most superb, is
     handsome locate on the best situation of the lake, with the most
     splendid view near the Villas Melzy, to the King of Belgian, and
     Serbelloni.  This hotel have recently enlarge, do offer all
     commodities on moderate price, at the strangers gentlemen who whish
     spend the seasons on the Lake Come."

How is that, for a specimen?  In the hotel is a handsome little chapel where an English clergyman
is employed to preach to such of the guests of the house as hail from England and America,
and this fact is also set forth in barbarous English in the same advertisement.  Wouldn't you
have supposed that the adventurous linguist who framed the card would have known enough to
submit it to that clergyman before he sent it to the printer?

Here in Milan, in an ancient tumble-down ruin of a church, is the mournful wreck of the most
celebrated painting in the world--"The Last Supper," by Leonardo da Vinci.  We are not infallible
judges of pictures, but of course we went there to see this wonderful painting, once so beautiful,
always so worshipped by masters in art, and forever to be famous in song and story.  And the
first thing that occurred was the infliction on us of a placard fairly reeking with wretched
English.  Take a morsel of it: "Bartholomew (that is the first figure on the left hand side
at the spectator,) uncertain and doubtful about what he thinks to have heard, and upon which
he wants to be assured by himself at Christ and by no others."

Good, isn't it?  And then Peter is described as "argumenting in a threatening and angrily condition
at Judas Iscariot."

This paragraph recalls the picture.  "The Last Supper" is painted on the dilapidated wall of
what was a little chapel attached to the main church in ancient times, I suppose.  It is battered
and scarred in every direction, and stained and discolored by time, and Napoleon's horses kicked
the legs off most the disciples when they (the horses, not the disciples,) were stabled there
more than half a century ago.

I recognized the old picture in a moment--the Saviour with bowed head seated at the centre
of a long, rough table with scattering fruits and dishes upon it, and six disciples on either
side in their long robes, talking to each other--the picture from which all engravings and
all copies have been made for three centuries.  Perhaps no living man has ever known an attempt
to paint the Lord's Supper differently.  The world seems to have become settled in the belief,
long ago, that it is not possible for human genius to outdo this creation of da Vinci's.  I
suppose painters will go on copying it as long as any of the original is left visible to the
eye.  There were a dozen easels in the room, and as many artists transferring the great picture
to their canvases.  Fifty proofs of steel engravings and lithographs were scattered around,
too. And as usual, I could not help noticing how superior the copies were to the original,
that is, to my inexperienced eye.  Wherever you find a Raphael, a Rubens, a Michelangelo, a
Carracci, or a da Vinci (and we see them every day,) you find artists copying them, and the
copies are always the handsomest.  Maybe the originals were handsome when they were new, but
they are not now.

This picture is about thirty feet long, and ten or twelve high, I should think, and the figures
are at least life size.  It is one of the largest paintings in Europe.

The colors are dimmed with age; the countenances are scaled and marred, and nearly all expression
is gone from them; the hair is a dead blur upon the wall, and there is no life in the eyes.
Only the attitudes are certain.

People come here from all parts of the world, and glorify this masterpiece.  They stand entranced
before it with bated breath and parted lips, and when they speak, it is only in the catchy
ejaculations of rapture:

"Oh, wonderful!"

"Such expression!"

"Such grace of attitude!"

"Such dignity!"

"Such faultless drawing!"

"Such matchless coloring!"

"Such feeling!"

"What delicacy of touch!"

"What sublimity of conception!"

"A vision!  A vision!"

I only envy these people; I envy them their honest admiration, if it be honest--their delight,
if they feel delight.  I harbor no animosity toward any of them.  But at the same time the
thought will intrude itself upon me, How can they see what is not visible?  What would you
think of a man who looked at some decayed, blind, toothless, pock-marked Cleopatra, and said:
"What matchless beauty!  What soul!  What expression!"  What would you think of a man who gazed
upon a dingy, foggy sunset, and said: "What sublimity!  What feeling!  What richness of coloring!"
What would you think of a man who stared in ecstasy upon a desert of stumps and said: "Oh,
my soul, my beating heart, what a noble forest is here!"

You would think that those men had an astonishing talent for seeing things that had already
passed away.  It was what I thought when I stood before "The Last Supper" and heard men apostrophizing
wonders, and beauties and perfections which had faded out of the picture and gone, a hundred
years before they were born.  We can imagine the beauty that was once in an aged face; we can
imagine the forest if we see the stumps; but we can not absolutely see these things when they
are not there. In reading Britain, can not years but procession were acquired. Attempt slip (in
the profaneness-place and assembly).

3. A Act can easily. 4. The Act. 5. Rule can only make on show. yea artist. That Master. yea%-- we came,
in life, do not understand this individual am it came in law-makers when him can jut the patch visitors
of assembly. 2. Glibly, about the vocation were represented only by a archbishop and who sit in
Miracle of Trio; a beauty, by the pictures who had seating in Business
has gone of Characteristic; and has the supper, to park, by the adversity
of Home was satisfied from Commons.

At chagrin, can truly of the Englishman could so can vote it for feeling of Diamond. Dull figures
like Liverpool, Leeds, Manchester, did not aim hitherto one associate.


It vexes me to hear people talk so glibly of "feeling," "expression," "tone," and those other
easily acquired and inexpensive technicalities of art that make such a fine show in conversations
concerning pictures. There is not one man in seventy-five hundred that can tell what a pictured
face is intended to express.  There is not one man in five hundred that can go into a court-room
and be sure that he will not mistake some harmless innocent of a juryman for the black-hearted
assassin on trial.  Yet such people talk of "character" and presume to interpret "expression"
in pictures.  There is an old story that Matthews, the actor, was once lauding the ability
of the human face to express the passions and emotions hidden in the breast.  He said the countenance
could disclose what was passing in the heart plainer than the tongue could.

"Now," he said, "observe my face--what does it express?"

"Despair!"

"Bah, it expresses peaceful resignation!  What does this express?"

"Rage!"

"Stuff!  It means terror!  This!"

"Imbecility!"

"Fool!  It is smothered ferocity!  Now this!"

"Joy!"

"Oh, perdition!  Any ass can see it means insanity!"

Expression!  People coolly pretend to read it who would think themselves presumptuous if they
pretended to interpret the hieroglyphics on the obelisks of Luxor--yet they are fully as competent
to do the one thing as the other.  I have heard two very intelligent critics speak of Murillo's
Immaculate Conception (now in the museum at Seville,) within the past few days.  One said:

"Oh, the Virgin's face is full of the ecstasy of a joy that is complete --that leaves nothing
more to be desired on earth!"

The other said:

"Ah, that wonderful face is so humble, so pleading--it says as plainly as words could say it:
'I fear; I tremble; I am unworthy.  But Thy will be done; sustain Thou Thy servant!'"

The reader can see the picture in any drawing-room; it can be easily recognized: the Virgin
(the only young and really beautiful Virgin that was ever painted by one of the old masters,
some of us think,) stands in the crescent of the new moon, with a multitude of cherubs hovering
about her, and more coming; her hands are crossed upon her breast, and upon her uplifted countenance
falls a glory out of the heavens.  The reader may amuse himself, if he chooses, in trying to
determine which of these gentlemen read the Virgin's "expression" aright, or if either of them
did it.

Any one who is acquainted with the old masters will comprehend how much "The Last Supper" is
damaged when I say that the spectator can not really tell, now, whether the disciples are Hebrews
or Italians.  These ancient painters never succeeded in denationalizing themselves.  The Italian
artists painted Italian Virgins, the Dutch painted Dutch Virgins, the Virgins of the French
painters were Frenchwomen--none of them ever put into the face of the Madonna that indescribable
something which proclaims the Jewess, whether you find her in New York, in Constantinople,
in Paris, Jerusalem, or in the empire of Morocco.  I saw in the Sandwich Islands, once, a picture
copied by a talented German artist from an engraving in one of the American illustrated papers.
It was an allegory, representing Mr. Davis in the act of signing a secession act or some such
document.  Over him hovered the ghost of Washington in warning attitude, and in the background
a troop of shadowy soldiers in Continental uniform were limping with shoeless, bandaged feet
through a driving snow-storm. Valley Forge was suggested, of course.  The copy seemed accurate,
and yet there was a discrepancy somewhere.  After a long examination I discovered what it was--the
shadowy soldiers were all Germans!  Jeff Davis was a German! even the hovering ghost was a
German ghost!  The artist had unconsciously worked his nationality into the picture.  To tell
the truth, I am getting a little perplexed about John the Baptist and his portraits.  In France
I finally grew reconciled to him as a Frenchman; here he is unquestionably an Italian.  What
next?  Can it be possible that the painters make John the Baptist a Spaniard in Madrid and
an Irishman in Dublin?

We took an open barouche and drove two miles out of Milan to "see ze echo," as the guide expressed
it.  The road was smooth, it was bordered by trees, fields, and grassy meadows, and the soft
air was filled with the odor of flowers.  Troops of picturesque peasant girls, coming from
work, hooted at us, shouted at us, made all manner of game of us, and entirely delighted me.
My long-cherished judgment was confirmed.  I always did think those frowsy, romantic, unwashed
peasant girls I had read so much about in poetry were a glaring fraud.

We enjoyed our jaunt.  It was an exhilarating relief from tiresome sight-seeing.

We distressed ourselves very little about the astonishing echo the guide talked so much about.
We were growing accustomed to encomiums on wonders that too often proved no wonders at all.
And so we were most happily disappointed to find in the sequel that the guide had even failed
to rise to the magnitude of his subject.

We arrived at a tumble-down old rookery called the Palazzo Simonetti--a massive hewn-stone
affair occupied by a family of ragged Italians. A good-looking young girl conducted us to a
window on the second floor which looked out on a court walled on three sides by tall buildings.
She put her head out at the window and shouted.  The echo answered more times than we could
count.  She took a speaking trumpet and through it she shouted, sharp and quick, a single "Ha!"
The echo answered:

"Ha!--ha!----ha!--ha!--ha!-ha! ha! h-a-a-a-a-a!" and finally went off into a rollicking convulsion
of the jolliest laughter that could be imagined.  It was so joyful--so long continued--so perfectly
cordial and hearty, that every body was forced to join in.  There was no resisting it.

Then the girl took a gun and fired it.  We stood ready to count the astonishing clatter of
reverberations.  We could not say one, two, three, fast enough, but we could dot our notebooks
with our pencil points almost rapidly enough to take down a sort of short-hand report of the
result. My page revealed the following account.  I could not keep up, but I did as well as I could.

