This gave me a better opinion of the commercial intelligence pervading his morgue than I had
had before; it also softened my feelings toward him, and also my tone, which had hitherto been
tinged with bitterness.

"Let bygones be bygones," I said, gently, "we are all erring creatures, and mainly idiots,
but God made us so and it is dangerous to criticise."

                         Sincerely
                                   S. L. CLEMENS.

     One day there arrived from Europe a caller with a letter of
     introduction from Elizabeth, Queen of Rumania, better known as
     Carmen Sylva.  The visitor was Madam Hartwig, formerly an American
     girl, returning now, because of reduced fortunes, to find profitable
     employment in her own land.  Her husband, a man of high principle,
     had declined to take part in an "affair of honor," as recognized by
     the Continental code; hence his ruin.  Elizabeth of Rumania was one
     of the most loved and respected of European queens and an author of
     distinction.  Mark Twain had known her in Vienna.  Her letter to him
     and his own letter to the public (perhaps a second one, for its date
     is two years later) follow herewith.

                     From Carmen Sylva to Mark Twain:

                                                  BUCAREST, May 9, 1902.

HONORED MASTER,--If I venture to address you on behalf of a poor lady, who is stranded in Bucarest
I hope not to be too disagreeable.

Mrs. Hartwig left America at the age of fourteen in order to learn to sing which she has done
thoroughly. Her husband had quite a brilliant situation here till he refused to partake 'dans
une afaire onereuse', so it seems. They haven't a penny and each of them must try to find a
living. She is very nice and pleasant and her school is so good that she most certainly can
give excellent singing lessons.

                      From Mark Twain to the Public:

                                                       Nov.  16, '04.

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN,--I desire to recommend Madame Hartwig to my friends and the public
as a teacher of singing and as a concert-vocalist. She has lived for fifteen years at the court
of Roumania, and she brought with her to America an autograph letter in which her Majesty the
Queen of Roumania cordially certified her to me as being an accomplished and gifted singer
and teacher of singing, and expressed a warm hope that her professional venture among us would
meet with success; through absence in Europe I have had no opportunity to test the validity
of the Queen's judgment in the matter, but that judgment is the utterance of an entirely competent
authority--the best that occupies a throne, and as good as any that sits elsewhere, as the
musical world well knows--and therefore back it without hesitation, and endorse it with confidence.

I will explain that the reason her Majesty tried to do her friend a friendly office through
me instead of through someone else was, not that I was particularly the right or best person
for the office, but because I was not a stranger. It is true that I am a stranger to some of
the monarchs--mainly through their neglect of their opportunities--but such is not the case
in the present instance. The latter fact is a high compliment to me, and perhaps I ought to
conceal it. Some people would.

                                        MARK TWAIN.

     Mrs. Clemens's improvement was scarcely perceptible.  It was not
     until October that they were able to remove her to Riverdale, and
     then only in a specially arranged invalid-car.  At the end of the
     long journey she was carried to her room and did not leave it again
     for many months.

*****

To Rev. J. H. Twichell, in Hartford:

                                        RIVERDALE, N. Y., Oct. 31, '02.

DEAR JOE,--It is ten days since Susy [Twichell] wrote that you were laid up with a sprained
shoulder, since which time we have had no news about it. I hope that no news is good news,
according to the proverb; still, authoritative confirmation of it will be gladly received in
this family, if some of you will furnish it. She is discharging a trial-cook today and hiring
another.

                    A power of love to you all!
                                                  MARK.

     Such was the state of Mrs. Clemens's health that visitors
     were excluded from the sick room, and even Clemens himself
     was allowed to see her no more than a few moments at a time.
     These brief, precious visits were the chief interests of his
     long days.  Occasionally he was allowed to send her a few
     lines, reporting his occupations, and these she was
     sometimes permitted to answer.  Only one of his notes has
     been preserved, written after a day, now rare, of literary
     effort.  Its signature, the letter Y, stands for "Youth,"
     always her name for him.

*****

To Mrs. Clemens:

DEAR HEART,--I've done another full day's work, and finished before 4. I have been reading
and dozing since and would have had a real sleep a few minutes ago but for an incursion to
bring me a couple of unimportant letters. I've stuck to the bed all day and am getting back
my lost ground. Next time I will be strictly careful and make my visit very short--just a kiss
and a rush. Thank you for your dear, dear note; you who are my own and only sweetheart.

                                        Sleep well!
                                                       Y.

XLII. LETTERS OF 1903. TO VARIOUS PERSONS. HARD DAYS AT RIVERDALE. LAST SUMMER AT ELMIRA. THE
RETURN TO ITALY.

     The reader may perhaps recall that H. H. Rogers, some five
     or six years earlier, had taken charge of the fortunes of
     Helen Keller, making it possible for her to complete her
     education.  Helen had now written her first book--a
     wonderful book--'The Story of My Life', and it had been
     successfully published.  For a later generation it may be
     proper to explain that the Miss Sullivan, later Mrs. Macy,
     mentioned in the letter which follows, was the noble woman
     who had devoted her life to the enlightenment of this blind,
     dumb girl--had made it possible for her to speak and
     understand, and, indeed, to see with the eyes of luminous
     imagination.

     The case of plagiarism mentioned in this letter is not now
     remembered, and does not matter, but it furnished a text for
     Mark Twain, whose remarks on the subject in general are
     eminently worth while.

*****

To Helen Keller, in Wrentham, Mass.:

                                             RIVERDALE-ON-THE-HUDSON,
                                             ST.  PATRICK'S DAY, '03.

DEAR HELEN,--I must steal half a moment from my work to say how glad I am to have your book,
and how highly I value it, both for its own sake and as a remembrances of an affectionate friendship
which has subsisted between us for nine years without a break, and without a single act of
violence that I can call to mind. I suppose there is nothing like it in heaven; and not likely
to be, until we get there and show off. I often think of it with longing, and how they'll say,
"There they come--sit down in front!" I am practicing with a tin halo. You do the same. I was
at Henry Rogers's last night, and of course we talked of you. He is not at all well; you will
not like to hear that; but like you and me, he is just as lovely as ever.

Oh, dear me, how unspeakably funny and owlishly idiotic and grotesque was that "plagiarism"
farce! As if there was much of anything in any human utterance, oral or written, except plagiarism!
The kernel, the soul--let us go further and say the substance, the bulk, the actual and valuable
material of all human utterances--is plagiarism. For substantially all ideas are second-hand,
consciously and unconsciously drawn from a million outside sources, and daily used by the garnerer
with a pride and satisfaction born of the superstition that he originated them; whereas there
is not a rag of originality about them anywhere except the little discoloration they get from
his mental and moral calibre and his temperament, and which is revealed in characteristics
of phrasing. When a great orator makes a great speech you are listening to ten centuries and
ten thousand men--but we call it his speech, and really some exceedingly small portion of it
is his. But not enough to signify. It is merely a Waterloo. It is Wellington's battle, in some
degree, and we call it his; but there are others that contributed. It takes a thousand men
to invent a telegraph, or a steam engine, or a phonograph, or a photograph, or a telephone
or any other important thing--and the last man gets the credit and we forget the others. He
added his little mite--that is all he did. These object lessons should teach us that ninety-nine
parts of all things that proceed from the intellect are plagiarisms, pure and simple; and the
lesson ought to make us modest. But nothing can do that.

Then why don't we unwittingly reproduce the phrasing of a story, as well as the story itself?
It can hardly happen--to the extent of fifty words except in the case of a child: its memory-tablet
is not lumbered with impressions, and the actual language can have graving-room there, and
preserve the language a year or two, but a grown person's memory-tablet is a palimpsest, with
hardly a bare space upon which to engrave a phrase. It must be a very rare thing that a whole
page gets so sharply printed upon a man's mind, by a single reading, that it will stay long
enough to turn up some time or other and be mistaken by him for his own. No doubt we are constantly
littering our literature with disconnected sentences borrowed from books at some unremembered
time and now imagined to be our own, but that is about the most we can do. In 1866 I read Dr.
Holmes's poems, in the Sandwich Islands. A year and a half later I stole his dictation, without
knowing it, and used it to dedicate my "Innocents Abroad" with. Then years afterwards I was
talking with Dr. Holmes about it. He was not an ignorant ass--no, not he: he was not a collection
of decayed human turnips, like your "Plagiarism Court;" and so when I said, "I know now where
I stole it, but whom did you steal it from," he said, "I don't remember; I only know I stole
it from somebody, because I have never originated anything altogether myself, nor met anybody
who had."

To think of those solemn donkeys breaking a little child's heart with their ignorant rubbish
about plagiarism! I couldn't sleep for blaspheming about it last night. Why, their whole lives,
their whole histories, all their learning, all their thoughts, all their opinions were one
solid ruck of plagiarism, and they didn't know it and never suspected it. A gang of dull and
hoary pirates piously setting themselves the task of disciplining and purifying a kitten that
they think they've caught filching a chop! Oh, dam--

But you finish it, dear, I am running short of vocabulary today. Ever lovingly your friend,

                                        MARK.

(Edited and modified by Clara Clemens, deputy to her mother, who for more than 7 months has
been ill in bed and unable to exercise her official function.)

