"Ah! it was a cruel day to us, petiots. We were leaving Acadia, we were abandoning the homes
where our children were born and raised, we were leaving as malefactors, without one ray of
hope to lighten our dark future, and it seemed to us that poor, desolate Acadia was dearer
to us, now that we were forced to leave her forever. Everything that we saw, every object that
we touched, recalled to our hearts some sweet remembrance of days gone by. Our whole life seemed
centered in the furniture of our desolate homes; in the flowers that decked our gardens; in
the very trees that shaded our yards. They whispered to us ditties of our blithe childhood;
they recalled to us the glowing dreams of our adolescence illumined with their fleeting illusions;
they spoke to us of the hopes and happiness of our maturer years; they had been the mute witnesses
of our joys and of our sorrows, and we were leaving them forever. As we gazed upon them, we
wept bitterly, and in our despair, we felt as if the sacrifice was beyond our strength. But
our sense of duty nerved us, and the terrible ordeal we were undergoing did not shake our resolve,
and submitting to the will of God, we preferred exile and poverty, with their train of woes
and humiliations, before dishonoring ourselves by becoming traitors and renegades.

"In the course of the day our grief increased, and the scenes that took place were heart-rending.
I never recall them without shuddering.

"Our people, so meek, so peaceable, became frenzied with despair. The women and children wandered
from house to house, wailing and uttering piercing cries. Every object of spoil was destroyed,
and the torch was applied to the houses. The fire, fanned by a too willing breeze, spread rapidly,
and in a moment's time, St. Gabriel was wrapt in a lurid sheet of devouring flames. We could
hear the cracking of planks tortured by the blaze; the crash of falling roofs, while the flames
shot up to an immense height with the hissing and soughing of a hurricane. Ah! Petiots, it
was a fair image of pandemonium. The people seemed an army of fiends, spreading ruin and desolation
in their path. The work-oxen were killed, and a few among us, with the hope of a speedy return
to Acadia, threw our silverware into the wells. Oh, the ruin, the ruin, petiots; it was horrible.

"We left St. Gabriel numbering about three hundred, whilst the ashes of our burning houses,
carried by the wind, whirled past us like a pillar of light to guide our faltering steps through
the wilderness that stretched before us."

Chapter Six

 A Night of Terror and of Misery. The
 Exiles are Captured by the
 English Soldiery

 Driven to the seashore and embarked for deportation--They
 are thrown as cast-aways on the Maryland
 shores--The hospitality and generosity
 of Charles Smith and of Henry Brent

"As darkness came, we cast a sad look toward the spot where our peaceful and happy St. Gabriel
once stood. Alas, we could see nothing but the crimson sky reflecting the lurid glare of the
flames that devoured our Acadian villages.

"Not a word fell from our lips as we journeyed slowly on, and as night came its darkness increased
our misery, and such was our dejection, that we would have faced death without a shudder.

"At last we halted in a deep ravine shadowed by projecting rocks, and we sat down to rest our
weary limbs. We built no fires and spoke only in whispers, fearing that the blazing fire, that
the least sound might betray us in our place of concealment; with hearts failing, oppressed
with gloomy forebodings, the events of the day seemed to us a frightful dream.

"Oh! that it only had been a dream, petiots! Alas! it was a sad reality, and yet in our wretchedness,
we could hardly realize that these events had actually happened.

"Our elders had withdrawn a few paces away from us to decide on the best course to pursue,
for, in the hurry of our departure, no plan of action had been decided upon, our main object
being to escape the outrages and ill-treatment of a merciless and cruel soldiery. It was decided
to reach Canada the best way we could, after which, after crossing the great northern lakes,
our journey was to be overland to the Mississippi river, on whose waters we would float down
to Louisiana, a French colony inhabited by people of our own race, and professing the same
religious creed as ours.

"But to carry out this plan, petiots, we had to travel thousands of miles through a country
barren of civilization, through endless forests, and across lakes as wide and deep as the sea;
we were to overcome obstacles without number and to encounter dangers and hardships at every
step, and yet we remained firm in our resolve. It was exile with its train of woes and of misery;
it was, perhaps, death for many of us, but we submitted to our fate, sacrificing our all in
this world for our religion, and for the love of France.

"We knelt down to implore the aid and protection of God in the many dangers that beset us,
and, trusting in His kind Providence, we lay down on the bare ground to sleep.

"As you may imagine, petiots, no one, save the little children slept that night. We were in
a state of mental anguish so agonizing that the hours passed away without bringing the sweet
repose of a refreshing sleep.

"When the moon rose, dispelling by degrees the darkness of night, we again pursued our journey.
We made the least noise possible as we advanced cautiously, our fears and apprehensions increasing
at every step. All at once our column halted; a deathlike silence prevailed, and our hearts
beat tumultuously within us. Was it the beat of the drum that had startled us? No one could
tell. We listened with eagerness, but the sound had died away, and the stillness of night remained
undisturbed. Our anxiety became intense. Was the enemy in pursuit of us? We remained in painful
suspense, not knowing what danger lurked ahead of us. The few minutes that succeeded seemed
as long as a whole year. We drew close together and whispered our apprehensions to one another.
We moved on slowly, our footsteps falling noiselessly on the roadway, while we strained our
eyes to pierce the shadows of night to discover the cause of our fears. The sound that had
startled us was no more heard, and somewhat encouraged, our uneasiness grew less.

"We had not advanced two hundred yards when we were halted by a company of English soldiers.
Ah! Petiots, our doom was sealed. We were in a narrow path surrounded by the enemy, without
the possibility of escape. How shall I describe what followed. The women wrung their hands
and sobbed piteously in their despair. The children, terrified, uttered shrill and piercing
cries, while the men, goaded to madness, vented their rage in hurried exclamations, and were
determined to sell their lives as dearly as possible.

"After a while, the tumult subsided, and order was somewhat restored.

"The officer in command approached us; 'Acadians,' said he, 'you have fled from your homes
after having reduced them to ashes; you have used seditious language against England, and we
find you here, in the depth of night, congregated and conspiring against the king, our liege
lord and sovereign. Apparently his determination who was not be treated under the fact that the
superiority of the derelict in its lesser speed and craft in maneuvering.

Unable to cope with his adversary in full force, he might will by his superior mobility in pardon.
 If
by the force of arms you have conquered this country, we are willing to recognize your supremacy,
but we are not willing to submit to English rule, and for that reason, we have abandoned our
homes to emigrate to Louisiana, to seek there, under the protection of the French flag, the
quiet and peace and happiness we have enjoyed here.'

"The officer who had listened with folded arms to the noble words of Rene Leblanc, replied
with a scowl of hatred: 'To Louisiana you wish to go? To Louisiana you shall go, and seek in
vain, under the French flag, that protection you have failed to receive from it in Canada.
Soldiers,' he added, with a smile that made us shudder, 'escort these worthy patriots to the
seashore, where transportation will be given them free in his majesty's ships.'

"These words sounded like a death knell to us; we saw plainly that our doom was sealed, and
that we were undone forever, and yet, in the bitterness of our misfortune, we uttered no word
of expostulation, and submitted to our fate without complaint. They treated us most brutally,
and had no regard either for age or for sex. They drove us back through the forest to the seashore,
where their ships were anchored, and stowing the greater number of our party in one of their
ships, they weighed anchor, and she set sail. The balance of our people had been embarked on
another vessel which had departed in advance of ours.

"Is it necessary, petiots, that I should speak to you of our despair when thus torn from our
relatives and friends, when we saw ourselves cooped up in the hull of that ship as malefactors?
Is it necessary that I should describe the horror of our plight, our sufferings, our mental
anguish during the many days that our voyage on the sea lasted?

"This can be more easily imagined than depicted. We were huddled in a space scarcely large
enough to contain us. The air rarefied by our breathing became unwholesome and oppressive;
we could not lie down to rest our weary limbs. With but scant food, with the water given grudgingly
to us, barely enough to wet our parched lips; with no one to care for us, you can well imagine
that our sufferings became unbearable. Yet, when we expostulated with our jailers, and complained
bitterly of the excess of our woes, it seemed to rejoice them. They derided us, called us noble
patriots, stubborn French people and papists; epithets that went right to our hearts, and added
to our misery.

"At last our ship was anchored, and we were told that we had reached the place of our destination.
Was it Louisiana? we inquired. Rude scoffs and sharp invectives were their only answer. We
were disembarked with the same ruthless brutality with which we had been dragged to their ship.
They landed us on a precipitous and rocky shore, and leaving us a few rations, saluted us in
derision with their caps and bidding farewell to the noble patriots, as they called us. Our
anguish, at that moment, can hardly be conceived. We were outcasts in a strange land; we were
friendless and penniless, with a few rations thrown to us as to dogs. The sun had now set,
and we were in an agony of despair.

"Our only hope rested in the mercy of a kind Providence, and with hearts too full for utterance,
we knelt down with one accord and silently besought the Lord of Hosts to vouchsafe to us that
pity and protection which he gives to the most abject of his creatures. Never was a more heartfelt
prayer wafted to God's throne. When we arose, hope, once more smiling to us, irradiated our
souls and dispelled, as if by magic, the gloom that had settled in our hearts. We felt that
none but noble causes lead to martyrdom, and we looked upon ourselves as martyrs of a saintly
cause, and with a clear conscience, we lay down to sleep under the blue canopy of the heavens.

"The dawn of day found us scattered in groups, discussing the course we were to pursue, and
our hearts grew faint anew at the thought of the unknown trials that awaited us.

