LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 4.

In the old times, whenever two fast boats started out on a race, with a big crowd of people
looking on, it was inspiring to hear the crews sing, especially if the time were night-fall,
and the forecastle lit up with the red glare of the torch-baskets. Racing was royal fun. The
public always had an idea that racing was dangerous; whereas the opposite was the case--that
is, after the laws were passed which restricted each boat to just so many pounds of steam to
the square inch. No engineer was ever sleepy or careless when his heart was in a race. He was
constantly on the alert, trying gauge-cocks and watching things. The dangerous place was on
slow, plodding boats, where the engineers drowsed around and allowed chips to get into the
'doctor' and shut off the water supply from the boilers.

In the 'flush times' of steamboating, a race between two notoriously fleet steamers was an
event of vast importance.  The date was set for it several weeks in advance, and from that
time forward, the whole Mississippi Valley was in a state of consuming excitement.  Politics
and the weather were dropped, and people talked only of the coming race. As the time approached,
the two steamers 'stripped' and got ready. Every encumbrance that added weight, or exposed
a resisting surface to wind or water, was removed, if the boat could possibly do without it.
The 'spars,' and sometimes even their supporting derricks, were sent ashore, and no means left
to set the boat afloat in case she got aground. When the 'Eclipse' and the 'A. L. Shotwell'
ran their great race many years ago, it was said that pains were taken to scrape the gilding
off the fanciful device which hung between the 'Eclipse's' chimneys, and that for that one
trip the captain left off his kid gloves and had his head shaved. But I always doubted these
things.

If the boat was known to make her best speed when drawing five and a half feet forward and
five feet aft, she was carefully loaded to that exact figure--she wouldn't enter a dose of
homoeopathic pills on her manifest after that. Hardly any passengers were taken, because they
not only add weight but they never will 'trim boat.'  They always run to the side when there
is anything to see, whereas a conscientious and experienced steamboatman would stick to the
center of the boat and part his hair in the middle with a spirit level.

No way-freights and no way-passengers were allowed, for the racers would stop only at the largest
towns, and then it would be only 'touch and go.' Coal flats and wood flats were contracted
for beforehand, and these were kept ready to hitch on to the flying steamers at a moment's
warning. Double crews were carried, so that all work could be quickly done.

The chosen date being come, and all things in readiness, the two great steamers back into the
stream, and lie there jockeying a moment, and apparently watching each other's slightest movement,
like sentient creatures; flags drooping, the pent steam shrieking through safety- valves, the
black smoke rolling and tumbling from the chimneys and darkening all the air. People, people
everywhere; the shores, the house- tops, the steamboats, the ships, are packed with them, and
you know that the borders of the broad Mississippi are going to be fringed with humanity thence
northward twelve hundred miles, to welcome these racers.

