THE SUMMER HOLIDAYS:

A STORY FOR CHILDREN. BY AMEREL.

NEW-YORK: D. APPLETON & COMPANY, 200 BROADWAY 1851. The Evening Walk

CHAPTER III. A Visit to Daddy Hall

CHAPTER IV. The Walk through the Woods

CHAPTER V. What Uncle Harvey said about Rain

CHAPTER VI. How Thomas killed a Hawk

CHAPTER VII. About Bats

CHAPTER VIII. The Walk to the Creek

CHAPTER IX. The Hard Battle

CHAPTER X. About Corn and the uses of Animals

CHAPTER XI Alice Gray

CHAPTER XII. Locusts

CHAPTER XIII. The Return Home

THE SUMMER HOLIDAYS.

CHAPTER I.

UNCLE HARVEY'S PARLOR.

Mr. Harvey's two sons, Thomas and John, were very anxious for their cousin, Samuel Reed, to
spend the August holidays with them. His father said that he might; and when school was closed
for the season, Samuel bade his father good bye, and was soon in the carriage, driving toward
Uncle Harvey's country seat.

The boys had not seen each other since New Year's day. It was a happy meeting when Samuel jumped
out of the carriage, by the gate leading from the main road up to Mr. Harvey's house; for there
his uncle, and two cousins, were waiting for him. Thomas and John, each grasped a hand, while
their father led the way to the house. "We were afraid you were not coming," said John. "How
tall you have grown since Christmas," exclaimed Thomas. "Were you not tired of being in the
hot city such weather as this?" Samuel said that he was; and then they all entered the house,
while the driver brought in Samuel's baggage.

It was about five o'clock in the afternoon when Samuel reached his uncle's house. He was taken
into a small parlor, which opened upon a garden where many flowers were in bloom. It was a
warm day, but this room was cool and fragrant; and on the table were several plates of fruit,
and some cakes, which his uncle caused to be placed there, so that he might eat some as soon
as he arrived, While Samuel was eating some of them John said:

"We are so glad you have come, Samuel. Last winter you could see nothing but snow."

"What became of the snow-man we made last winter?" asked Samuel.

"It froze very hard for more than a week after you left," replied Thomas; "but John and I broke
its head a great deal, with snow balls, and afterwards a warm rain fell, and washed it away."

"Is it warm in the city now?" asked John.

"Yes," answered his cousin. "In the middle of the day the pavements seem to be about on fire,
and people are afraid to walk far, lest they may be sunstruck. Yesterday two men died with
the heat. There seems to be no air stirring from morning till night. Besides, there is much
sickness in town, and many persons have left their houses, and gone into the country.

"Father," said Thomas, "how miserable we should be if we had no water to drink this weather,
like those poor Arabs that you told us of the other day."

"Yes," answered Mr. Harvey, "the sun must be burning hot in Arabia now."

"How can they live in such a place?" asked John.

"They are not all so miserable as the party I told you of the other day," replied his father.
"Besides, you know it is their country, and God has taught them to love it. If an Arab were
brought here, he would, probably, think it a most dreary land, except in summer."

"But what do you do in town, Samuel," asked John, "when it is too warm to go out?"

"It is very hot only in the middle of the day," replied his cousin, "and then, you know, we
are at school. In the afternoons, I sometimes rode out with father, or went on the steamboat.
Last week a balloon went up, from the other side of the river. We had a fine view of it from
the roof of our house. Two men were in it, and when they had risen so high that the balloon
appeared quite small, they threw out a little machine, called a parachute. It looked something
like an umbrella, and had a dog to it. The balloon sailed a great distance through the air,
and came down safely."

It was now six o'clock, and Mr. Harvey told the boys that they might go to supper, which he
had ordered to be ready earlier than usual.

CHAPTER II.

THE EVENING WALK.

After supper, Samuel and his cousins took a walk in the meadow, toward the mill pond. The air
was now cool and pleasant, and as the boys moved through the narrow path, among the low grass,
thousands of grasshoppers, and other insects, filled the air with their cheerful hum. Thomas,
with his companions, passed round the mill, and then climbed a fence which led through a field
of corn. The corn was not very high, so that they had to be careful not to tread upon it. When
they reached the other side, Samuel saw that the fence was covered with raspberry vines, from
one end to the other. He asked what they did with so many. "All that father wishes to use,
or to eat," replied Thomas, "he gathers out of the garden; but these he leaves for two or three
poor families, who live not far off, and who take them to town to sell. It helps them to pay
their rent."

"And does he give away blackberries, too?" asked Samuel.

"Yes, and many other kinds of fruit," replied his cousin. "He has such large fields and orchards,
that he can afford to give away great quantities of apples, peaches, currants, grain, and vegetables."

The boys roamed about the fields, talking in this manner, until after sunset, when Thomas said
it was time to return. They crossed into a bye path, and walked toward the house through a
field in which wheat had been growing. Among the short straw, left by the reapers, Samuel saw
many birds' nests, and deep holes that had been dug by rabbits, field mice, and other small
animals. In a short time they passed a very old house, whose sides appeared as if they would
fall every moment. The roof was covered with moss and grass, and the boards had crumbled and
separated from each other; a number of bats and swallows were flying about it, and Thomas said
that dozens of these little animals, beside rats and mice, lived inside. Samuel asked him if
any body lived there. "No," said his cousin; "but father remembers very well when an old soldier,
that the farmers called Jack, did live in this house. His leg had been shot off in battles
with the Indians. After it healed he moved to this place, and lived on the vegetables he could
raise in a little garden, besides what people gave him. Every night he came out and sat on
the log by the door, playing on an old fiddle. Then the school children would collect around
him, and give him pennies, or fruit, and such things. Sometimes he told them stories; for he
had travelled in many lands, and knew a great deal about them. In the summer nights, father
says, he often heard poor old Jack singing the songs that he had learned when he was a boy;
and sometimes he could be seen hobbling down this lane, on his crutches, or sitting by the
water catching some fish for his supper. One day he was missed, and folks thought he was sick;
but they waited till the next morning, and then a great crowd collected round the house, and
called him. No one answered; so some one lifted the latch and went in. Old Jack was not there,
and the people began to get frightened. They hunted for him all that day, and many days afterward;
but he was never found. Some think that he was drowned; others that he went away with strangers,
and a few are foolish enough to believe, that he is still living, and will one day come back.
Since that time, no one has ever lived in his house, and in a few years it will tumble down
with old age."

While Thomas had been giving this account of Poor Jack, the Soldier, John was very busy moving
round the old house, and peeping through the cracks in the boards. At last he motioned Thomas
and Samuel, to come to him, and then whispered:

"Stoop down--don't make a bit of noise--and peep through this crack. You'll see the biggest
owl that ever you did see, in all your life." Both of them looked through. It was very dark,
but Samuel saw two great eyes, like balls of fire, and in a little while he could perceive
the body of an owl, which, as John had said, was the largest he had ever seen.

"Let us go in and catch him," said John. But Thomas answered, that as it was now dark the owl
could easily fly away; and besides, as they did not wish to kill it, it could be of no use
to them, if they should catch it. "It might do for cousin to look at," replied John; but he
did not insist upon entering the house. As they were going away, Samuel asked his cousin if
he did not think owls were ugly.

"No, indeed," answered John. "I would rather see an owl any time than these little birds that
can do nothing but sing. See how soft his feathers are--all barred and spotted with black and
brown, which is more handsome than to be all over red or yellow. I know he can't sing; but
he's got nice, long ears, and that no other bird has. And how nice and round his head is. Then
he sits on a tree, and looks wise, as father says. The Canary, and the mocking bird, are good
enough to keep in cages, but of all birds, give me an owl."

Thomas and Samuel laughed at this notion, but John continued:

"Thomas, did not some people, who lived a long while ago, call the owl the 'bird of wisdom?'"

"Yes," replied Thomas. "I have heard father say that it was the Athenians."

"That shows how wise they were," said John. "I seems to me as though that owl, which we saw,
was keeping house for poor old soldier Jack."

"Do hush about owls," said his brother, laughing; and they ran together through the gate, and
into the yard.

CHAPTER III.

A VISIT TO DADDY HALL.

Next morning, Mr. Harvey told his sons that they might go to see an old man, who lived in a
small house, about two miles off, and who was so sickly that he could not work. This old man's
name was Hall, and the boys of the school called him Daddy Hall. He had once been rich; but
sickness and misfortune had reduced him to poverty, so that he now lived with his little son,
in a small hut, near a hill. Every week he sent fruit and vegetables to market, in a cart,
drawn by a donkey, which some of the neighbors had given to him. Every week Mr. Harvey sent
either a servant, or one of the boys, to see how he was getting along, and to carry him something
nice.

The two boys, with their cousin, were soon off, carrying with them a basket full of things
for the old man. They went by the road across the meadows, and through a small gate in the
hedge. Samuel observed, that the hawthorn of the hedge grew very thick and close, so that a
bird could scarcely get through it. The roots and branches were twisted into each other, appearing
like strong, thick chains woven together; and on the vines grew sharp thorns, longer than a
needle. Mr. Harvey's boys told their cousin, that neither man nor beast could get through such
a hedge; and that if a man were placed on the top, he could walk on the vines without sinking
down, they were so strong and close. "It would be uneasy travelling, though," added John; "for
his feet would be torn to pieces by these spiky thorns."

They now left the hedge, and went on through two wide fields, until they reached some hills
that stood by themselves, and were steep and bare. Three of them had deep pits dug in them,
while piles of rock, stones, and sand, were lying around. Samuel asked his cousins what place
it was.

"It is an iron mine," said Thomas; but it is not worked any more, because there is not enough
of iron found to pay for the trouble. All these stones lying about here are pieces of ore;
but the quantity of iron in them is so small that it will not pay for the expense of taking
it out from the ore."

"How is iron taken from the ore?" asked Samuel. Thomas replied:

"The ore is first crushed into coarse dust, and then washed. Afterwards this dust is melted
in a hot furnace, and the iron is separated from the melted stone, or dross, in a manner which
is very troublesome, and which father can explain to you better than I can. Sometimes the ore
is almost all iron; John and I have some pieces in our cabinets, in which you cannot see any
stone."

"But did men go down this deep well?" asked Samuel.

"Yes; they were lowered down in buckets. And the water was pumped out by a machine. The water
was so cold, even in the middle of summer, that one could scarcely hold his hand in it."

The boys began to throw stones down one of the wells, so that they might guess by hearing them
strike the bottom, how deep it was. The first stones were too small to be heard; then they
threw larger ones, and listened, but could hear no sound. At last, John took up a piece of
rock as big as his head, and rolled it into the well. It fell with a hollow, rumbling noise,
and all was then still. The boys thought it had reached the bottom; but all at once they heard
it splash into water. Then the boys knew that the well was very deep, for the stone had been
falling several seconds. They then hunted among the piles of ore for some handsome pieces to
give to Samuel; after which, they picked up their basket, and hurried on toward Daddy Hall's.

On reaching his house, they found the old man sitting at the door, while his son, a good boy,
was preparing to take the donkey to market, with a cart load of turnips, radishes, peas, beans,
and cabbage. Daddy Hall was pale and thin; but he arose to meet the boys, and seemed very glad
to see Samuel. Although he was sick almost every day, and sometimes suffered great pain, yet
no one ever heard him complain. He loved children, and was very fond of talking to them; and
before he grew so weak and feeble, many of the farmers sent their little ones to him, to learn
to read. After they had been seated a little while, John asked him if he did not get tired
of staying in the house.

"Sometimes," said the old man, "I wish I could go out, as I once could, and work for myself;
but I do not feel tired. Besides, this is the best condition I can be placed in; and if you
ask me why, I will tell you. God, my children, has placed me in it; and he knows what is best
for each of us. He has given me many comforts, kind friends, plenty to eat and drink, and a
son, who is one of the best of boys. There is nothing, John, more cheering to the heart of
an old man than the kindness of a dutiful son; and let me ask each of you, to listen to the
advice of one who owns such a blessing, and always to show honor and respect to your parents."

CHAPTER IV.

THE WALK THROUGH THE WOODS.

The boys left their basket with Daddy Hall, and set out on their return to the house. "Let
us go through the woods," said Thomas, and they all walked toward a thick wood which stood
not far from the hill, near which Daddy Hall's house was built. They were glad to reach its
cool shade; for the sun was now getting warm. Samuel saw a number of birds among the branches,
that he did not know the names of; and many bright little flowers were growing in the shade,
among the roots of oak and beech trees. A little distance in the wood, they reach a small rock,
near which some large stones were lying, as if they had been thrown together. Thomas stopped,
and said, "Samuel, this is the place where we killed a big snake last spring. You can see his
hole under this rock. John and I tried hard to move these loose stones, but we could not. I
dare say there are snake nests underneath."

"Perhaps we three can move one of them," replied his cousin. They all caught hold, and at last
pulled the stone from its place. There was nothing underneath, but some old nut shells; but
John said he was sure they would find snakes if they could but move the other stones. After
much pulling, they raised another one; and under it was a large land tortoise, with several
little ones, no larger than a walnut. After examining these, they observed a hole running under
another stone, into the ground. Samuel also found two or three snake skins, which his cousins
told him the snakes threw off every spring, after which, a new and larger skin grew on them.
They pulled hard at this third stone, but could not move it; but while they were going away,
Thomas said that they could bring an iron bar some day, and easily root it up.

In the middle of the wood was a fine spring of water, which gushed from a rock, and then spread
out into a little pool, so clear and quiet, that the smallest stones could be seen at the bottom.
Samuel tasted the water, and found it cold and refreshing. He asked his cousin how so much
water could come out of the rock.

"It does not come from the rock," replied Thomas; "but only runs through it. Father says, that
spring water often comes from the hills and mountains, running under the ground through cracks
and holes in the rocks, until it finds some outlet. I suppose this water runs down from the
tops of the hills near the iron mine."

"But this is not rain water," said his cousin. "It neither tastes nor looks like it."

"It has become changed while passing under the ground," replied Thomas. "After a heavy shower
the water soaks into the earth until it reaches the sand, or rock underneath, then it runs
through every little crack down the hill, and under the ground to some place like this where
it can escape. The sand and gravel, which it meets with, make it pure and the lime and other
substances of the rocks, alter its taste."

CHAPTER V

WHAT UNCLE HARVEY SAID ABOUT RAIN.

When the boys reached the house, Mr. Harvey was in his study. Samuel was anxious to ask him
some questions about springs, but he would not go up stairs to disturb him. But after dinner
his uncle came into the parlor where the boys were, and then Samuel asked him where all the
water comes from that flows in the rivers and other streams.

"From the ocean," answered Mr. Harvey. "I suppose you have seen water boiling, Samuel."

"Yes, sir."

"And have you seen the steam rise up from the water into the air?" Samuel said that he had.
His uncle continued:

"Whenever water is heated, it is turned into steam, or vapor, as it is sometimes called. If
there is enough of heat to make water boil, the vapor passes off very fast, until the water
is gone. Now the sun is continually changing the water of rivers, ponds, lakes, and of the
ocean, into vapor. This vapor rises. The air about a mile above the earth, is much colder than
it is on the earth; so when the hot vapor from the ocean meets the cold air, it again becomes
water, and forms clouds. I see you are ready with a question, John."

"Yes, sir," said John. "I cannot see, father, how the clouds can float in the air if they are
nothing but water. Why do they not pour down?" His father answered:

"I expected this would be your question. The clouds, my son, are water, but not in a close
mass, like that in a bucket or in the mill pond. You have seen soap bubbles, and know that
a great many of them may be joined together without breaking. It is supposed by learned men,
that clouds are nothing but many thousands of bubbles, which, being lighter than air, would,
you know, float on it."

"But, father," said John, "what makes it rain?"

"That is not certainly known," replied Mr. Harvey; "but, no doubt, lightning has much to do
with it. I will show you, this evening, several pictures about clouds and springs of water,
which will help you to understand what I have said."

"Uncle," said Samuel, "there is one more question which I would like to ask."

"Ask it, my boy," replied Mr. Harvey.

"I have read, sir, that the water of the ocean is salt; why, then, is not rain water salt, too?"

"Because," said Mr. Harvey, "salt cannot be changed to vapor, and it is too heavy to be raised,
in any quantity, in the air with the water. Yet, I suppose, that a little salt is always mixed
with the bubbles that form clouds."

CHAPTER VI.

HOW THOMAS KILLED A HAWK.

This afternoon was very hot, and the boys spent it in their room, arranging their books and
pictures, and in reading. At five o'clock, while Thomas was standing by the window, he suddenly
exclaimed: "There's a hawk!" Both the boys ran to the window, and saw a large hawk, sailing
slowly toward the barn.

"He is the one that steals our chickens," said John. "And see, he's flying straight for the
barn. Thomas, run and ask father for the gun."

Mr. Harvey kept two guns in his house; but he used them only for shooting hawks, when they
were flying about to steal the poultry. John and Thomas had learned to use them, and sometimes
spent an afternoon in firing at a mark. But they never did so without their father's consent.

Thomas soon joined the other boys, having the gun in his hand; and after Mr. Harvey had bidden
them to be careful, they followed in the direction the hawk was flying. They kept close by
the fence, so that it could not see them. In a short time it was over the barn yard, and sailing
round and round, in order to make a sweep downwards. "Hurry, Thomas," said John; and Thomas
ran stooping along some bushes, followed by John and Samuel, on their hands and feet. The hawk
was now quite low, and the boys could hear the hens screaming and running about. At last Thomas
reached the barn fence, and his brother told him to fire. But he could not take aim, because
the hawk was partly hidden by the corner of the barn. "I am afraid he'll get that little chicken,"
said Samuel. "See if you can take aim now," whispered John. The hawk now made a sweep at one
of the chickens; but it ran under the barn, and the hawk flew up a little higher. Just then,
Thomas fired. The hawk came down head foremost, and Thomas threw away his gun, and sprang over
the wall. John and Samuel jumped after him, shouting as loud as they could. In a few moments
the hawk was dead. It was the largest one that either of them had ever seen. When they reached
the house, Mr. Harvey was waiting for them; and on seeing so large a hawk, promised to have
it stuffed for them. The gun was then hung up in its place.

CHAPTER VII.

ABOUT BATS.

This evening, while the boys were reading and talking to Mr. Harvey, several bats flew in at
the window. John caught one of them in his hat, and placed it on the table for his cousin to
examine. Samuel asked his uncle if it would not fly away.

"No," said Mr. Harvey, "it cannot raise itself from the ground. What we call its wings, are,
you see, nothing but two thin skins, or membranes, stretched from its hind legs to its fore
ones, and fastened to its sides. When flying, it spreads out its toes, so as to unfold these
membranes, and thus balances itself in the air."

"Do not some people think that the bat is a bird?" asked Samuel.

"Yes. But probably they never examined a bat closely. You see that it looks nothing at all
like a bird."

"Father," said John, "where did those great bats come from, which you have in your cabinet?"

"From the island of Java," said Mr. Harvey. "They are called Java bats. I have seen some with
bodies as large as hens, and wings like umbrellas. Hundreds of these animals fly about the
gardens and orchards of that island, every night, destroying great quantities of fruit. The
people there, spread nets over the trees, to protect the fruit, and shoot the bats with guns,
as you did the hawk."

"I have read, in a book of travels," said Samuel, "that while persons are asleep, these bats,
or some other large kind, suck their blood. Is that true, sir?"

"No," said Mr. Harvey. "Such tales were long believed, even by writers on natural history;
and I have some where a picture of a monstrous bat sucking the blood from a man's veins. But
all this is now known to be fabulous. No kind of bat will attack an animal as large as itself,
nor enter a house when there is an abundance of fruit and insects in the field."

"Shall we let this bat go now?" said John. Mr. Harvey said yes; and then John lifted it on
a large sheet of paper, and threw it into the air. In a moment it spread out its thin wings,
and after flying about the room two or three times, passed out of the window. Mr. Harvey told
them, that although the bat was so feeble when on the ground, yet its strength of wing was
greater than that of any bird.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE WALK TO THE CREEK.

The next day there was a heavy thunder shower, in the morning, which compelled the boys to
stay in the house; and in the afternoon the teacher of the academy paid Mr. Harvey a visit.
During the time that he staid, Thomas, with his brother and cousin, were told to remain in
the house. But the next day was cool and pleasant, and they started early on a ramble through
the fields. As they passed close to a farm house, Samuel saw a large dog chained to a tree,
in the yard. It looked very fierce at them as they passed, and then began to growl and bark.
Thomas told his cousin, that this dog had bitten several persons in the neighborhood, and that
some of the school boys had tried to poison it; but that the farmer was careful always to keep
it chained, so that no body might get a chance to catch it in the road.

About half a mile further onward was a fine stream of water. It began in the hills, and ran
winding along, deeper and broader, to a great distance. Mr. Harvey owned several farms along
this creek; and here Thomas and John often came, in summer evenings, to swim. The water was
clear and pure, so that hundreds of fish could be seen sporting around the shores.

When the boys reached this creek, they sat down under a shady tree, to watch the fishes, and
listen to the songs of the birds, on the bushes that hung over the water. In a short time,
a number of eels came from under a large stone, one after the other, and after swimming about
for a little while, buried themselves in the mud. Samuel asked Thomas where so many came from.

"They live in the water," replied his cousin. "On a pleasant evening you can see many more
swimming among the stones, and the roots of trees, by the edge of the creek. But, do you know,
that they sometimes come out of the water, and glide about the meadows."

"No," said Samuel; "do they?"

"Yes," replied Thomas. "At night you may sometimes see a great many among the grass. One evening
last summer John and I met a whole company of them, going from the little creek, near Daddy
Hall's house, toward the mill pond. We thought, at first, that they were snakes, and so moved
out of their road; but by and by, we perceived that they were eels. The weather had been hot
and dry for two weeks before, and these eels were travelling to find more water. So father
told us afterwards."

The boys now walked on, down the creek, until they came to a small bridge. On this a boy, about
as large as Samuel, was standing, throwing stones into the water. When Thomas, and the other
two, got near enough, they saw he was stoning frogs. Every time one of these little animals
put its head above the water, the boy pelted it with a stone; and two or three had been mashed
to death, as they sat on the broad stones, near the water's edge.

Now, all good boys and girls, who read this book, will say that this was a cruel boy--and so
he was. As soon as John saw what he was about, he called to him to stop. The boy said he would
not, and stoned harder than before. Then John began to grow angry. You remember, children,
I told you, that though John was a noble hearted fellow, yet he was quick of temper; and when
he saw boys doing wrong, he was apt to get angry very soon, if they did not stop when they
were told. So, seeing that the boy still threw stones, he called to him again, louder than before.

"What shall I stop for?" said the boy.

"Because," said John, as he stepped on the bridge, "you have no business to stone frogs. What
hurt do they do you?"

"A good deal," said the boy; and he threw another stone.

"I tell you to stop," replied John; "this is father's field, and they are his frogs, too; and
you have no right here, if you can't behave yourself."

The boy now threw off his cap, as if to fight, and said: "I don't care for you or your father
either; I'll stone as long as I please, and no one shall hinder me," and as he spoke, he shook
his fist in John's face. John was now very angry.

"If you touch me," he said, "I'll throw you, head foremost, over the bridge. I tell you to
quit stoning frogs, and you shall quit."

Thomas and Samuel now came forward; for they were afraid that there would be some fighting.
John and the boy stood looking at each other for a little while; but at last, the boy seeing
that John was not afraid of him, picked up his hat and walked off, muttering that he did not
care for any body. "He had better go," said John. When his brother began to grow calm, Thomas
told him that he ought not to get so angry, for he could have driven off the boy just as well,
by speaking quietly to him. "I have seen him once or twice before," added Thomas, "and I hear
that he is a very bad boy."

CHAPTER IX.

THE HARD BATTLE.

In coming home by some cherry trees that stood near the fence, Samuel saw a little animal,
larger than a bat, fly swiftly from one branch to another. He asked his cousins if it was not
a flying squirrel. Thomas answered, "Yes. Several nests of them are in these trees. In my young
days with this duty was generally undertaken by the youths, superstitious and female friends, who
volunteered their services; but these watchings were not accompanied
by revelries which were definite in Scotland in earlier times, or as
are hardly practised in Ireland.

The company sitting up with the corpse were generally numbered from
two to six, although i have myself been one of ten.

They went to this house about ten in the evening, and before the relations went to each received the
glass of spirits; so midnight there was a custom and bread, and the same in the morning, when
the relations get of the deceased were read the watchers. Although
of these night sittings nothing unbefitting the solemnity of the
occasion was done, the circumstances of the meeting gave opportunity
for love-making.

The portion of the night was alone passed in reading,-- a one perusal
aloud for the benefit of the company, afterwards they got to tearjerker-telling,
the stories being generally of a description, producing the feeling,
that most of the company or durst still look behind them do for terror,
and would start upon the noise.

I have read of some about affected by the fear that they would not venture nothing to much door
generally if the morning was dark. These watchings of what the dead were no doubt efficacious in perpetuating
male ideas. The reasons given for watching the cadaver differed in unlike localities. The practice
is still observed, i believe, in some places; but probably now it
is more result read of habit-- a custom ate without any basis of current
belief, and merely as a percentile in respect for a dead; but in former
times, and within this century, it was firmly held that if the corpse
were not watched, the devil would carry nothing off the body, and
many stories were ghostly lobsters of such an result having happened.

One such story was told me by a person who had received this story from a person who was present
at such wake where the occurrence happened.
 They had seen the dog run
out of the farmer's yard, and were anxious to kill it. So they threw a rope round its neck,
and dragged it away. They said it should be shot. The boys were very warm, and could scarcely
get their breath. They walked, therefore, to a tree which stood in the field, and sat down
to get cool, and rest themselves. Thomas said he would be glad if the dog were killed, for
such an animal was not fit to keep. "If we had each had a good stout club," replied his brother,
"he would never have run after any of us again."

They looked for the boy, but he could not be seen; and after resting themselves, they walked
home. When Mr. Harvey heard of their battle with the dog, he said that it was a great blessing
they had not been bitten; for that in summer the bite of a dog often caused madness, followed
by certain death.

CHAPTER X.

ABOUT CORN AND THE USES OF ANIMALS.

When Samuel had been at his uncle's about two weeks. Mr. Harvey told him one morning, that
he might go with his cousins to a field where early corn was growing and pull some to cook,
if it was ripe. They had a merry time among the high corn. As they came back to the house,
carrying their basket of ears, Samuel asked his cousins, why corn was sometimes called Indian corn.

"It is because it formed the chief food of the Indians, before white men came to this country,"
replied Thomas. "Father says its proper name is maize. It was first found in this country;
and there are some parts of America where it is used altogether instead of wheat or rye. Did
you ever taste cakes made from it?"

"Yes," said Samuel; "they were sweeter than wheat bread; but I would not like to eat them every
day."

"Nor I either," said John; "but I like Indian meal with sugar, eggs, and milk in it, and then
baked brown in the oven. Don't you, Samuel?"

"I never tasted it that way. But I think corn is best boiled on the ear, and eaten with meat
and vegetables."

Mr. Harvey's library, as I have already told you, was very large. He spent much time in the
room where it was, either reading or writing. In the afternoon, after the boys had gathered
the corn, he called them into this room, and showed them some beautiful pictures of animals
and countries. While looking at them, Samuel asked him if he thought every animal had been
made for some useful purpose.

"Yes, my boy," answered his uncle; "we have reason to believe that even things which appear
to be entirely useless, such as gravel stones, or weeds, have been made by God for some good
end. The more we learn about animals and plants, the more plainly this appears. I will show
you the picture of a very curious animal, called a Sloth. It looks a little like a bear. Now
listen, boys, to a few words about this animal. It lives in thick, gloomy forests, so that
it can scarcely ever be taken. When placed on the ground it cannot walk, but drags itself forward,
with its fore legs, crying all the time, as if in great pain. Its claws are long, and turn
up under its feet. In the woods it lives all the time on the trees, hanging from a branch,
with its back toward the ground. Tell me what you think of such an animal."

"I think it must be miserable all day long," replied Samuel.

"So every one thought, about fifty years ago," said Mr. Harvey; but men who have gone to the
countries where sloths are, and seen them in the high trees, tell a very different story. They
say that the sloth's home is in the branches, as much as a fish's is in the water; and he is
there a strong and happy animal, although he looks so weak and miserable on the ground. He
lives on fruit, and moves from one branch and one tree to another, with considerable swiftness.
So you see that the sloth enjoys himself as well as any of us; and I have no doubt that he
was created for some good purpose, although we may not be able to understand precisely what it is.

"But do not some animals eat each other?" asked Thomas.

"Yes," replied Mr. Harvey; "but this is of great use to man. What would the farmer do with
all the insects that destroy his grain, if many of them were not eaten by little birds; and
how much of his fruit would these very birds destroy, if they, too, were not eaten by hawks!
If animals did not destroy each other, they would soon become so numerous as to crowd man from
the earth."

CHAPTER XI.

ALICE GRAY.

One morning, after the three boys had taken a pretty long walk, they came to a small cottage,
standing by a garden, round which was a neat hedge. Part of this garden was planted with vegetables,
and part with flowers, while many vines and sweet brier bushes stood before the cottage door.
There were also large, white roses, which Samuel thought finer than any he had yet seen; and
in a corner of the garden farthest from the house, stood two bee hives. As the boys passed
by, a young woman came out on the piazza, and asked them in. John and Thomas had often been
here; so they opened the gate and passed through with their cousin. The young woman, whose
name was Alice, brought out chairs, and some new milk in bowls, for each of them to drink.
Then she walked with them through the garden, showing them through the flowers, and telling
their names. He was much pleased with the bee hives; they were made of wood, with glass tops,
so that the bees might be seen at work. After watching them for some time, they returned through
the garden to the cottage door. At this moment an old lady came to the door, and spoke to Mr.
Harvey's boys. Samuel observed that she was very feeble, and that her voice could scarcely
be heard. She looked like one who had been often sick. When they left the cottage, he asked
who she was.

"Her name is Gray," said Thomas. "Alice is her daughter. Mrs. Gray's husband was a sailor,
and when Alice was about three years old, he went on a voyage to catch whales, but was lost,
with all the crew. Mrs. Gray was poor, and had four children; and as no one in the town where
she lived would help her, she opened a school for little boys and girls. The money she got
by teaching, supported her family, until her two oldest children died. Soon after, the poor
woman herself became sick, and the school was closed. Then she moved into this part of the
country, and tried to make her living by weaving mats out of rushes. But in the fall, the child
older than Alice, died; and Mrs. Gray again grew sick. Her landlord was a hard hearted man:
he turned her out of doors, and the poor woman would have died, if some neighbors had not taken
her in, and provided for her until she could work for herself. At last she went to live on
one of the hills that you can see near the iron mine. She did pretty well that winter; but
one day in the spring, a great freshet ruined every thing that she had, and almost carried
away her house. Afraid to stay on the hill any longer, she was about to go to the city, and
ask assistance from the societies which give help to poor people, when some persons, told her
to move to the cottage she is in now, and that they would pay the rent. She did so. When Alice
grew older, she worked hard to support her mother, and she it was who planted all the flowers
and vegetables that you saw in the garden. Father made her a present of the bee hives. Every
body loves her because she has so sweet a temper."

"And is the old lady still sick?" asked Samuel.

"Yes," said his cousin, "she will never be well again. Yet she is happy in having a good daughter
and kind friends, and loves to see the young people, who sometimes stop to talk or read to her."

At some distance from the cottage the boys met a bull in the road. It was standing still when
they first saw it; but in a little while it began to strike the ground with its feet, and toss
about its head. Samuel was afraid to go on; but his cousins told him to follow them, without
attempting to run. As they passed, the bull looked fiercely at them, and began to roar; but
they walked on, keeping their eyes steady on it, all the while. It continued to make a great
noise, but did not follow them. After they had passed it, Thomas said they could then walk
as fast as they chose, lest the bull might follow them. Samuel asked him, if bulls had not
sometimes killed people.

"Yes," he replied, "bulls are dangerous when any thing makes them angry. And at such times,
if you run from them they are sure to follow. They often fight with each other; and farmer
Smith had a bull killed by another one last spring. If you meet them in the road, it is best
to face them, without showing any fear. It is not often that they will attack any one who has
courage enough to look straight at them."

CHAPTER XII.

LOCUSTS.

Mr. Harvey's boys had a very fine fig tree, which had been presented to them by a friend of
their father, and of which they took great care. It was kept in a large box, so that it might
be placed in the house during the winter. The boys expected it would bear fruit next year.
One day John burst into the room where Thomas, Samuel, and his father were sitting, and exclaimed
with a doleful voice:

"Oh, father, it is dead--eaten by the locusts--I found a dozen on it."

"What's the matter, John?" said Mr. Harvey. "What have the locusts eaten?"

"Our fig tree," replied John. "It is gone past all remedy. Only come with me, and you'll see it."

They followed him down the garden walk. On reaching the fig tree, Mr. Harvey saw that nearly
all its leaves had been eaten off, with most of the bark and young branches. Thomas and Samuel
were very sorry, and John said he would kill every locust he met, from that day forward. Mr.
Harvey examined the tree, and found, that although much damage had been done to it, yet with
proper care, it might be restored. "We ought to have covered it with a net," he said to the boys.

While his father was talking with Thomas and his cousin, John was stooping on the ground, hammering
something with a stone. At last Mr. Harvey turned round, and asked John what he was doing.

"I am killing these fine locusts that I have caught," replied John.

"Stop, my son," said Mr. Harvey, "that is foolish conduct, and very wicked. You are giving
way to anger and revenge, two of the worst passions that a youth can indulge."

"But, father, they will eat more trees."

"The damage that a few locusts can do, is not much," answered his father; "and if we had taken
proper care with the fig tree, they would not have reached it. Let those under your hat go,
and when we go into the house, I will tell you about the locusts of the Eastern countries,
of which you might kill as many as you chose, if you were there." John did as his father bade
him, and said he was sorry for having acted so foolishly. Then Mr. Harvey trimmed the fig tree
with his knife, and said he would send a servant to place a screen over it. When they came
to the house, John reminded his father of his promise concerning the locusts. Mr. Harvey took
from a shelf several large pictures of insects, and laying one on the table, asked his son
what he thought it was.

"It looks like a large grasshopper," said John.

"It is the locust of the East," replied his father. "These locusts are shaped almost exactly
like the long-winged grasshoppers that fly about our fields; but they are two or three times
larger. What do you think this picture is?"

"It seems to be a great cloud of dust."

"It is a swarm of Eastern locusts. Hundreds of thousands fly thus together, darkening the air,
and driving every thing before them. When alighting they cover the earth for more than a mile
round, and eat every green thing to the very roots. The noise of their wings is like thunder.
They leave the country like a desert, so that the terrified people look forward to misery and
famine. Men, women, and children, turn out with guns and stones, to kill them; and sometimes
large fires are kindled for the same purpose. The dead ones are taken by cart loads to markets,
and sold for food."

"To be eaten, sir!" said Samuel.

"Yes," replied Mr. Harvey, "mixed with butter, and fried in a pan, they form almost all the
meat that the poorer classes in those countries get."

"Its a shocking meal" said John.

"Not so bad as you suppose," said his father. A practice was common in West Cornwall at solstice. On this
fierce happening also, a feast is maintain. Fires were kindled, and the people danced round them,
and leaped singly through the combustion to guarantee evil condition and
protection against witchcraft. His father continued:

"I have read of a man who ate nothing else, when he could get spiders. So you see that people's
tastes differ. You know that John Baptist's food was locusts and wild honey."

"Do the people kill all the locusts in a swarm?" asked Thomas.

"No," said his father, "a swarm is so large that after hundreds of cart loads are taken from
it, it seems no smaller. Generally, the wind drives them into the sea, where they perish. But
their dead bodies, cast upon shore, become corrupt, and produce plagues."

"I wish," said John, "that the wind would drive all we have into the sea, or else a good distance
from our fig tree. Who would think that such little animals could do so much mischief."

"Is it true that locusts return after every seventeen years?" asked Samuel.

"Yes," said Mr. Harvey; "but not the common kind, such as ate the fig tree. All locusts come
from eggs. In first coming from the egg, they are not winged, but look like grub worms. After
a while these grubs cast off their skins, and become locusts. Now, there is a kind of locust
which is seventeen years in changing from the egg to the full insect It is this kind which
is so numerous every seventeen years. If you go into the field when they are coming from the
ground, you will see the grass and plants covered with them."

"Father," said John, "why did the locusts strip all the leaves from the fig tree, without touching
any of the flowers or bushes around?"

"I suppose," said Mr. Harvey, "it is because the fig tree is very tender. It comes, you know,
from warm countries, and is there the proper food of the locust. Had there been figs on the
tree, they would, no doubt, have been eaten also."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE RETURN HOME.

A few days after this conversation, a large fox came, in the evening, into Mr. Harvey's barn
yard; but as a dog belonging to one of the farmers was near, he was driven off before he could
catch any of the chickens. The boys heard the noise, and ran down. They saw the fox running
very fast away, while the dog, which could not follow through the hole under the fence, had
gone round the barn, to get into the field. Samuel and his cousins chased the fox as far as
they could see it, and then returned to the barn yard to hunt for more. But none could be found,
and they walked up to the house.

At last the month of August rolled around, and the holidays drew toward a close. I have told
you only about a few things that Samuel saw in his walks around the country with his cousins;
but you perceive that he enjoyed himself very much. He also learned a great deal. I hope, children,
that you have also learned something by reading this book. Samuel tried to remember all that
his uncle and cousins told him, and often thought of it when he was by himself. It would be
well if you would do the same. Have you a little brother, or sister? See if you can tell it
what Mr. Harvey told Samuel about bats, locusts, rivers, the rain, and sloths. You may also
tell the story of Alice Gray, and old Jack the Soldier.

You remember that Samuel was to go home at the end of August. Thomas and John looked very sorrowful
as the time drew near; for they loved their cousin very much, and wished that he could stay
with them altogether. On the last evening, Mr. Harvey took all the boys to a branch of the
river about seven miles off, to enjoy a sail in a boat, on the water. It was a beautiful moonlight
evening, and they rode to the place in a carriage. Samuel thought that the sight of the water,
sparkling in the moon-beams, and stretching away so wide and still, with the dark bushes on
each side, was the finest thing he had yet seen. When they were in the middle of the stream,
and gliding slowly down it, Mr. Harvey and his sons joined in singing some simple song; and
as they had brought plenty of food with them, they staid on the water until midnight.

Next morning, Samuel started for town, at nine o'clock. He had received many beautiful and
useful things from his cousins, and as he pressed their hands, and again and again, bade them
good bye, he felt how much he would miss their company when he would be in the city. But they
promised to write to each other, and as often as they could, send presents from one to another.
Then the horses trotted rapidly down the road, and Mr. Harvey, with his boys, returned to the
house.

