III. The pupil then begins her regular course of work, and her feeling of responsibility of
the value of time is awakened--that is, her seconds, minutes, and hours, days, weeks, and months
are now important factors in her life, and they may be used for good or evil. In the language
of the department, time may be spent wisely or foolishly, and, while studying at the Manhattan
Trade School, seven hours out of every day of the girl's life is given over to productive work
and should be accounted for. The department has developed its own plan of time payments, which
is much like the piece-work system employed in trade. Through its rewards for time well spent
it makes the fact real to the pupils, as no form of punishment could do, that wasted time is
gone forever.

The department is divided into five classes, three of which must be taken to make an all-round
operator, namely: Elementary, two months' course; Intermediate, four months' course; Advanced,
six months' course. In trade, salaries for such positions range from $5 to $15. The other two
classes train specialists on the electric machines, special machines of various kinds, straw-sewing
machines. Special machine work requires from three months to one year in addition to the full
course of all-round operating. Salaries range from $6 to $30. An expert trade worker is in
charge of each class.

    Course of Work

    Regular Operating Course:

    1. Control of power--learning names and uses of parts of machines.
    Making bags, clothes, and operator's equipment.

    2. Straight and bias stitching, equal distance apart.

    3. Spaced bias stitching from given measurements.

    4. Making and turning square corners, stitching heavy edge for
    tension practice.

    5. Machine table apron, using former principles. This is used to
    protect operator from shafting and oil.

    6. Seams: Plain seam, plain and band seam; French seam; bag seam on
    warp; bag seam, one warp and one bias; bag seam, two biases.

    7. Hemming: Different sized hems turned by hand for correct
    measurements; hems run through hemmer to learn use of attachment and
    give speed; seams through hemmer--bag seam, flat fell.

    8. Quilting: Following designs made by pupils in Art Department.
    Practice for control of power, starting and stopping machine at
    given point.

    9. Banding: Straight and bias bands placed by measurement from
    design made in Art Department. Practice for edge stitching, turning
    corners, accuracy of measurement.

    10. Advanced seams on cloth and silk: Flannel seam, slot seam,
    umbrella seam.

    11. Yokes made and put on: Round yokes--petticoats; round front and
    straight back--drawers and petticoats; bias yokes--waists; shaped
    yokes--aprons; round yokes--children's dresses; miter corner
    yoke--dresses.

    12. Tucking: Free hand tucking for accuracy in measuring and use of
    rule; special tucking on length and widths of different materials to
    give speed and skill in handling different fabrics.

    General Construction: Trade Stock and Order Work (See Order Work):
    Infants' slips, children's underwear; children's rompers; children's
    dresses; women's underwear; shirtwaists; aprons; house dresses;
    fancy negligees.

    Special Machine Work:

    Buttonholes; tucking; two-needle work; hemstitching; Bonnaz
    (Corneli) embroidery; machine hand embroidery, scalloping. Students
    of special ability only are fitted to take this course. One girl in
    fifteen has usually the requisite application and self-control to
    operate a special machine successfully. Each machine is specialized,
    i. e., does its own particular work and no other. Patient
    attention to little things is required on the part of the operator
    in order that good results may be produced. Such machines are
    supposed to need only a hand behind them to guide the work. Our
    experience has proved to us that good results are produced only when
    intelligence and patience are factors. In the factories, machinists
    keep the special machines in order, but the school aims to train the
    operator to keep her own machine in good condition, thus saving her
    valuable time.

Bonnaz (Corneli) embroidery work offers excellent opportunities for correlation with the Art
Department. Both Bonnaz (Corneli) and machine hand embroidery must be felt in the muscles before
they can be carried out on the material, therefore the work with the pencil in making designs
which are to be carried out on the machine is of first importance. Free-hand designs must be
made first in large, free movements on the machine until the arm muscles are thoroughly familiar
with the curve, sweep, and feeling to be executed. After mastery of movement and sweep are
acquired, the same designs may be reduced in size ten or twenty times and the pupil will still
work them out in perfect rhythm. After the mastery of movement is acquired, the cording, braiding,
and three-thread attachment work are easily learned by a pupil who has the necessary mechanical
sense. The course of Bonnaz (Corneli) work covers: chain stitch, lettering, appliqué work,
cording, braiding, three-thread work.

Machine hand embroidery should be given as a supplementary course to Bonnaz (Corneli) embroidery.
It gives excellent training in design and color work.

Special trade machine straw sewing should also be taken up after the regular course in operating.
It gives splendid exercise for quick handling of material, but makes a poor foundation of itself
on which to build a painstaking, expert, all-round operator. Speed is the first requisite in
getting a hat properly shaped, as the straw braid is flying through the machine at the rate
of four thousand stitches a minute; hence the general operating is given first to the pupil
to train her in the requisite neatness. As straw-sewing has long slack seasons, the operator
can during such times return to the regular operating.

DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT

Aim

The aim of the Dressmaking Department is to train girls in the elements of the dressmaking
trade, in order to enable them to immediately secure employment as improvers and finishers
or as assistants on skirts, waists, and sleeves, and to give them a preparation which will
help them eventually to rise to positions of skill and responsibility. The training eliminates
the errand girl and apprenticeship stages, and makes possible a living wage at the start. The
result is accomplished in from nine to seventeen months, the time depending entirely upon the
capability of the girl, her physical condition, her application to her work, her regularity
of attendance, and her previous training.

Classes

The department is divided into three sections: (1) The Elementary, which consists of two classes
for the teaching of simple sewing and machine work. This section is rendered necessary by the
poor preparation of the students at the entrance. It would be not only practical but desirable
for elementary public and industrial schools so to train their students that they could omit
this part of the Manhattan Trade School course. (2) The Vocational. This section also includes
two classes. The work is tradelike in character, but much time has to be given to developing
right habits of work as well as to learning specific kinds of handwork. The public secondary
schools could offer this section to advantage, and through it train pupils for a better knowledge
of the home or for future livelihood. (3) The Trade Section. This is a business shop, which
reproduces trade conditions as nearly as possible and is subdivided into the same progressive
divisions. Although the object is to work as trade does, the educational aim is also prominent,
and the course of training has been planned with both ends in view. Order work plays an important
part in this section, for it makes possible the quantity and variety of material necessary
to supply the many repetitions of important phases of dressmaking, the new views of old principles,
and the elaborate costume manufacturing which are needed in the training. It would be impossible
for a school to adequately deal with the many varieties of garments in this trade without some
equivalent for the order work. The use of models or of practice material is not satisfactory
on account of the great difference between theoretical and practical knowledge in handling
valuable materials. A girl may learn to run fine tucks on cheesecloth, but this will not enable
her to do satisfactory hand-tucking on chiffon. Neither is it a correct educational or economic
principle to cut up quantities of good material, which the students will look upon as "rags,"
and then, after working on them, to throw them into a receptacle for waste or sell them simply
to get rid of them. To secure the best results in any line of instruction there must be interest
and enthusiasm. The aim, therefore, must be definite and the results vital. The work is planned
to foster these higher qualities. The students produce articles for a definite use; they are
given a required time in which the work should be completed; trade itself sets the standard
of judgment, and a definite relation exists between the work of all the classes, so that old
principles may be recognized when presented in new forms.

Courses of Work

I. Elementary Section. (1) Beginners' Class. First, a test is given each girl when she enters
which enables her instructor to judge of her ability in sewing. It has been found necessary,
in the majority of cases, to teach all or the greater part of the following principles: the
use of sewing utensils, the making of the stitches, their application in articles, and the
running of the sewing machine. Hence the second step has been a course of work covering the
use of these needed principles, each girl beginning at the point where she needs training.
Third, the final test. On the satisfactory completion of this very elementary training a test
is given to show a girl's ability to work, to think, and to utilize ideas. If she is not yet
fully prepared, further time is spent in emphasizing the points she still requires.

The work in the Beginners' Class is done upon articles which have a trade value and which are
sold to customers or to the students for about the cost of the materials. The school furnishes
the materials for all elementary work, but the students must provide their own tools and keep
them in good condition. These include a thimble, needles, scissors, a tape measure, an emery,
and a white apron.

Class instruction followed by individual criticism is the method of teaching in the Elementary
Section. Emphasis is placed upon the proper use of the utensils, the position of the body,
and the handling of the work. Individual records are kept of the grade of work and of the time
taken to finish a problem. The course takes from two to three months to complete, and the students
are at work four and one-half hours per day.

    OUTLINE OF WORK IN BEGINNERS' CLASS

    1. Stitches and special forms of sewing: Basting, running,
    overhanding, overcasting, hemming, blind stitching, sewing on
    buttons (two hole, four hole), buttonholes, featherstitching.

    2. Seams: Plain; selvage and raw edges; French; felled; straight and
    bias edges; overhanded.

    3. Machine stitching: Straight seams and rows; hems;
    facings--points; use of tucker.

    4. Principles: Measuring, seams, hems, tucks, cutting by a thread;
    matching stripes; turning and basting hems; making casing for
    drawstrings; putting on band--by hand, by machine--one and two
    pieces; setting strings into bands; finishing ends of hems; putting
    on pockets--straight and shaped; plain placket; cutting bias strips;
    piecing bias strips; facing curved and straight edges (armholes,
    neck, waist, points); joining waist and skirt with bias facing;
    making straight tucked ruffle; inserting ruffle under tuck on skirt;
    ripping.

    5. Articles used in the work (this list is changed at will and is
    merely representative): Handwork--Pin cushion, bag, towel, white
    apron with ruffle. Machine work--Belt, gingham apron oversleeves,
    child's dress with waist, uniform apron.

    6. Supplementary work: Shoe bags, silver cases, holders, bibs, silk
    bags, darning bags, needle books, traveling cases, baby caps and
    work of a similar character.

    7. Materials used: Cotton, linen, silk.

(2) Intermediate Class. The Beginners' Class gives most of its time to hand sewing, the Intermediate
Class emphasizes machine sewing. The work is a repetition of the principles taught in the Beginners'
Class, but is presented in a different manner, with new applications. Orders are taken from
individuals or business houses for the garments which are made in this course. The price is
that of the trade. These orders furnish a market for the entire output of the class. A certain
amount of class instruction is given, but the girls are expected to do independent work under
supervision.

    OUTLINE OF WORK IN INTERMEDIATE CLASS

    1. Review of former principles on new garments: (1) French
    seam--straight edges, baby slips and nightgowns. (2) Hems, (a)
    straight, (b) turned by hand, on princess aprons, bloomers,
    sleeves, etc., (c) turned by machine--hemmer on ruffles, for
    drawers and petticoats. (3) Overcasting--seams of skirts. (4)
    Buttonholes--all garments. (5) Plackets--plain hemmed, on skirts,
    baby slips. (6) Bias bands--joining and applying to straight and
    curved edges, on princess aprons, drawers, top of petticoat. (7)
    Ruffle--joining, measuring, and applying under tuck, on skirt and
    drawers. (8) Machine instruction--threading, setting needles,
    winding bobbin, scale of thread, needle, and stitch.

    2. New principles: (1) Flat fell--shaped and bias edges on princess
    aprons and drawers. (2) French seam--shaped edges in petticoat
    seams. (3) Loops--on petticoats and dressing sacques. (4)
    Hems--shaped edges in gored skirts, princess aprons and nightgowns,
    baby slips and children's dresses. (5) Overhanding--pieces on
    nightgowns, piecing ruffles and lace on underwear. (6)
    Plackets--faced in drawers, petticoats, bloomers, and dress skirts.
    (7) Bias band--applying to top of ruffle in petticoats and drawers.
    (8) Bias binding--corset cover and nightgown. (9) Ruffle--finishing
    with bias bands on petticoat and drawers. (10) Cuffs--making and
    applying to nightgowns, baby slips, rompers, and house dresses. (11)
    Sleeves--gathering on wrong side and putting into baby slips,
    nightgowns, dressing sacques, etc. (12) Pressing. (13) Sewing hooks
    and eyes on petticoats. (14) Machine instruction in cleaning,
    oiling, and attachments.

    3. List of articles made for stock and order: Aprons--princess,
    maids', fancy. Women's clothes--dressing sacques, nightgowns,
    kimonos, lounging robes, house dresses, chemises, drawers, skirts
    (washable, mohair, silk), collars, and corset covers. Children's
    clothes--nightdresses, night drawers, drawers, skirts, rompers,
    dresses, and aprons.

    4. Materials used: Cotton, silk, woolen, and worsted.

II. Vocational Section. The increasing demand for ready-made clothing has opened a new field
for girls obliged to enter the business world as soon as the law will permit them to leave
school. This requires hand finishing on fancy waists and plain and fancy gowns, which are made
by the dozens on machines run by electric power. It is not necessary to have a knowledge of
actual dressmaking to be able to do this work. The ability to do good handwork rapidly is the
prerequisite. In some establishments there are opportunities for girls of ability to rise from
finisher to draper, which latter position commands a high wage.

The producing of fine, handmade underwear, waists, and dresses is another opportunity for girls
who can take but a short time in which to prepare to earn their living. Work of this character
is of a much higher grade than that of the wholesale finishing, and demands the ability to
do extremely good hand and machine work. The worker must be able to handle the finest kind
of materials and to do the most intricate work, such as hand tucking, setting in lace, and
trimmings.

Although the course in the Vocational Section trains for specific branches, it is very necessary
that all dressmaking students should have experience in these lines in order to be better prepared
for the actual dressmaking. If, however, a girl has the ability to do the work of these classes,
she is allowed to skip either one or both of them.

Course of work in the Shop for Gymnasium and Swimming Suits: The students are drilled for one
or two months in putting garments together, stitching, and finishing. As but two kinds of garments
are made, speed is acquired and a certain amount of accuracy is gained through much repetition.
Definite arrangements have been made through wholesale houses for the disposition of the product.
The materials are furnished by the school. The price is that of trade.

(1) Articles: Swimming suits (patented), bathing suits, and gymnasium suits. (2) Materials
used: Cotton, wool, worsted.

Course of work in White Work Class: The previous training having been a general one for accuracy,
speed, and the mastery over mind and hand, attention is now given for two and one-half or three
months to fine detail work and the handling and keeping fresh and clean of the daintiest of
cotton goods. The materials are furnished by the school and the work is sold to customers at
trade prices.

(1) Principles: Hand-tucking, rolling and whipping, mitering corners, overhanding trimming,
inserting lace and embroidery by hand and machine, fine featherstitching, and white hand embroidery.
(2) Garments for stock and order; fine underwear, waists, and baby clothes. (3) Material used:
cotton.

III. Trade Section--The Business Shop. Trade demands skilled workers, and preference is given
to those who have had practical training. The trade section aims to add experience to skill
by offering the students the actual work and conditions demanded in the outside market. The
general scheme is the one in use in moderate-sized dressmaking establishments.

The workroom has its tables devoted to separate kinds of work, the students obtain a definite
amount of knowledge from each experience, and pass from one to the other as rapidly as their
ability to grasp the principles will permit. Each division is in charge of an instructor with
practical trade experience, who prepares and supervises the work and also does the skilled
parts which the students, on account of their lack of experience, are unable to do.

The girls are not taught cutting, fitting, and draping, as trade would not permit a sixteen-year-old
girl to attempt this work on account of her lack of judgment and experience; but they have
the opportunity to see and assist in the preparation of work. No girl in the trade shop will
make a complete garment, but she will have worked upon all parts many times.

