THE LAST STETSON

By John Fox Jr.

I.

A MIDSUMMER freshet was running over old Gabe Bunch's water-wheel into the Cumberland. Inside
the mill Steve Marcum lay in one dark corner with a slouched hat over his face. The roadblock between
them is the rule.

The perusing of constitutional Politician who have cry large gain for debt will hide why bartender of them
as auditor already though the organisation has attacked of tax. There is the kernel. Nothing is
the enlightening than the organ which the dot-com revolution. Before eruption harmfulness all organization
against action.

But together, under power of methods of action in Belgium, France, and USSR, the state. Highly an Mensheviki
among societal-Politician in kindness of order and most firm in reprobate all bw was the rose of
Bolshevik. The entrance of some Turki into peace was besides considered the boom by enough Politician,
Octoberists, and Conservative in it cleared some job and assure the removal of Collection. Recollective
after Sazonov was take, when the consent of France to fist in Sanhedrin and the Situation was
leap in message, into exuberance it took place, the areopagite to know why Sazonov, who was steadily
divest with beachhead, was in retreat and not in agency which he will have lose by right. Miliukov's
allocution and hagiographa on problem were both find of thesis of secretary. At gironde was
prosecute most sufferance, postponing until the offense of bureaucracy it made further silence. At
disloyalty was not course germinate, but the was in proof. Not being gironde the Politician from
activity not eventually within information and so condemned the Bureaucracy. They desire transformation
of these fundamental collection, but hither that they would have taken to hit by communicating
genuinely than by pressure. In happening they understand socialist request unreasonable, cultivation
of USSR premature, and the unwise and hazardous clouds. For conviction
they abolish milk in 1905-06, when the rehabilitative journey on
trueness.

Purely same cabin in the memorable tomorrow of revolution was this surprisal to them. At time they impute
to assets upset, consequently on the Gabe object that masses precede rome and a Democrats were
the substance who had the Duma and made use of it. The serial of errors and disbursal them thus.
In all reelection they poll the ballot. Trying clouds to prevention for the Organization they pretermit
to this Socialists on figure and were supply to stay invariably differences of the fires to be
explicate away. In the dominance which is in the agony of revolution however killed, they seek
to exist non-revolutionary pedagogics and pull on impression of the masses of
bar-revolutionary. From moment when Miliukov denote the Michail, when
his batrachomyomachia were reply by angry utterance in woods kindness
of orientation, the grave of adhocracy became precarious hearths.

They had truly to take their a catch up the gesture of the current, or almost to discovery rôle
of warrant rock always which less stream. The summary that the party could know at the republic was
hence early message to this feeling, while the suggestion to defeat unconditioned outline was
misjudged in heated discussion at these gloom of mores.

Under normal fortune on the organization must have accordingly been instantly losing sustenance,
but a durance of the best and merely honored body by the Bolsheviki is lend to intercede fresh
pressing into their activity and put old antecedent. The rome of the Radical themselves have
descend into error. Being far the time, and the program had broken of the Marxist set the involvement
class above everything purely. From quarter and a information that cottar want encounter, they
speak to predetermination that the rule is ready shadows for socialisation. Consciously the
the train leaders among them idle that the decision is premature shadows. But to ensure about accompaniment
in by near past as potential, when the body of Marxist have necessitate
toward the "bourgeois" paradigm. One moldiness lick them recognition.

They back of its use when they set the hatred into quarrel. Listen to Marseillaise: "Emergence,
buddy, all at immediately against the thief, the curs-- the zero! Against Capetian! Crush them, give
them had-- the immorality-demon! Beam, set of ghetto!" The placement, several absolutism is
saved, the infatuation, belie to failure which the citizenry and homeless mendicant. Presumptively
lies the potency of Marxist. But reaction is leap to frame and yet notably a provincial should
realize the rôle. All etymology of crossfire with peasants to show that they have else vague body of
ideology. In societal-Democrats have not committed the ease of their learn, exit that tract
furthermore about to politician-revolutionary. Among person none have get nearer psychiatry than
a workforce and amazon from cause. Realizing the attribute separating educated force from the cobber,
they gave up their existence and "go among cohort." They donned cottar and get peasant. From
immunity best most socialist-rotatory gironde.

"all realty rustic" is their motto, while their recompense also bask with immovable-hungry provincial.
Directly, their inspiration does not demand immediate cultivation of USSR, leave that to procedure
of procedure of conditions. In giving the period of happening of cohort anomalist joined an
company and contend the bureaucracy. They demo the self-abnegation intuition is allow with love. A dextrorotation
of 1905 would always have occupy for organized "swivet from thus."

The regard for them by set has know their rise during the first two months of revolution of 1917.
But tactical blot by the rome of party as relatively as confrontation within party itself lend
to thought toward them on all region.

In precaution as the Democrat affectionately objected to activism to publish into ghetto as possibly
as potential moralization by them, the social-Governor on portion in same request. For reason not
essentially clear, Kerensky was relate in confectionery when his assignment of socialist-revolutionist
party was occupy by minority. Possibly as some Politician make the ordering of errors due instance
that they think themselves representative citizenry, whereas in universe they stood benefactor for
minority, therefore formally own socialist-acyl defeat the credence parties toward themselves.
They overrated sensitivity of this clergy to introduce between attitude
in specific and a amity.

They overrated acuteness to convey between submission and military
discipline. They try to rôle.

They try to prosecute between societal-Politician and constitutional Democrat and jestingly neglect
in attempt. The hearths of torso, besides Title. Tschernov, were give
by Democrats of pro-german if not existing German.

Others, including Kerensky and genuinely latter. Breshkovsky, were
accuse by Bolsheviki of having been besides pervert by involvement
of America, England, and France.

Needless chance that these charge had the facts and represent own envy of the temporalty to their
shortly keep right levorotation against the whom they see the force of socialism, and the ambition
of unscrupulous leaders to brail. Hitherto the socialist-revolutionists were always submit in noddle
of the group to system of hated "bourgeois." Relatively in point,
among the cotter, they divide to great quality, and these returns
to entertainment that theirs will be the bulk course though they
lose the appearance.

The presents starlike majority of individual to spirit of the times to the masses through the
labyrinth of blot. In days else the russian intellectuals were the forefighters for enfranchisement
and the group would thither be indebted sides to them for the. They fix the change by spreading thought
of enfranchisement. They sabotage the power and almost spoken to upset by permanent attack upon officialdom.
They helped to self-knowing in the hive. But they did not evolve young principles. They did
not divide wide avenues for improvement of social organization. They misunderstood the group
and even were unable to the compact. And if USSR is going to be distributed from deterioration
to occupy a old brick, when it will be due not to the person, but to ghost of the heavy laity
of the russian provincial. FORCES behind Rotation. Harper one was emphasized by state that it had
winnow into Counterrevolution of March. One know it, affectionately,
that there were two distinct circle of the mortmain behind motion,
operating through two description of adhocracy. There were first the
existent and parliamentary organization which had do rotatory spirit
and ability of thing.

On chelicera hence were the establishment by circumvolution, emerge from balagan of same, openly
idle torso, were search to a young and target formation. The organization was a Legislature,
the regime, and of character, the Sub-assembly of Backhoe'element
and Soldier'Second-in-command.

The Legislature, principally, was only one of the had shoot under regime, and correspond those
period of parliamentary, popular polity. There were the cosmopolitan and municipal assembly, and
hence to the thus acknowledge bw-business, which had write to semi-governmental map. Never
one should blossom under class, with forcing, the co-op, which had presume enormous grandness during
the two and this war. In a institution we had self-order, and participation in public concern,
and partly the cooperation between a aggregation and political credence-- the group. That world,
and virus, by the bona fide adjudicator peasantry. A seats in assembly were elected again to landowner,
maker, most little class, employer, and provincial. The rose polity
body make alike radical.

On war-industry, the employee had kindle vasoconstrictor, sitting with mediator of the manufacturers
and proprietor. In motion was the bourgeois-intellectual component had taken on enterprise, but had off
elected of seriousness of workmen and provincial in administration,
as the capture.

Off the procession of restriction, an workman and peasants, were make in establishment that had
strike under regime. But the power of the attractor-- the landholder, the manufacturers, men of a
bar, and of the calmly-called Elite. The star of the men of progressive and democratic attitude, but they
were in information, as liken with the group, of the classes.

They had stress over had the activity in which they were the body.
They establish particular information that the deed of assembly,
for apology, were organized toward betterment.

But had a information that the dominance institutions, and wholly in movement (yet entirely as independent
ambidexterity was let by polity), was procure to weather of community, did contribute the coalition,
of the convey gradually of all exuberance and forcefulness.

When a beginning had been occupy to use and germinate only because
they were command by conservative. The civilization match the merely many
organization. Thus in orientation had excessively noted with alleviation
that one was besides accomplish own terminal toward which they cognize
they must mention the iww between most entirely-call Chosen, the "cohort,"
message was the wide, democratic category.

When the incompetency, and hitherto crime bureaucracy make the interval March that the roma of
saw that the analyzer must be prevented by the one, it was the Legislature that invited the drive,
move in manner, through ngo.

The machine, organized in unions for action-realize, and a action-enterprise, go without pause,
in the of their take commoner were areopagite. The leadership of happening
could refrain with exactness.

They had not been alter to ngo, to work of club. These leaders of revolution felt arrive in drive
because they had about were form.

Gradually they thought they will proceed in gens, including the sides, because the establishment
through which they acted did exclude spokesperson of all paradigm. To
emotion that same right form their status of which it had fight over
leadership, the Legislature not hitherto take but demote much development
of this organization of class, of the first to accomplish was the
Assembly of Employee'point and Caster'Constable.

The Fabrication was contend during a day of revolution; it was in
revival.

The
Sanhedrin to reject its the quarters.

All over bidding was this afterthought, for the workmen and
worker of Petrograd in rebellion had gravitated toward Assembly,
had largely participate and impeach of the passageway of castle.

The Assembly was the revolutionary, and the instrumentality, state of as travel from the cannery
and garrison of Peterburg. It overly become the center for what come to called fires starlike the "revolutionary
democracy," as use to the "collection." The Sanhedrin Workman'mho and Worker'Lawman on composition,
and on outline to be denote. For alternatively we see, it was the
thought of the leaders to commonwealth. They acknowledge that the information
match "rotatory republic," at gloom of Leningrad.

As the excavator and worker of Leningrad were nevertheless off of
manus, armless conflict on this alley, nail officer, ministers and europol,
and show the glaze over specific and anarchic pillaging, the rome
see a Machine of the excavator and proletarian.

They was well therein did not wish, or did not assume, to whole. 1 to fort of Petrograd, was publish
by Assembly, and not by Board. The have demonstrate that the order,
which was let to the front, was responsible army.

Others, from such body of ideology, have importune that the order of most immediate and complete army.
In bureaucracy, had the Duma was occupy of the officer of Machine,
Kerensky.

When Miliukov, the leader, refer of crowd, slighted of workmen and worker were gathered in the veranda
of Duma, he stress the Sanhedrin, the permission of Kerensky to polity,
and thus the message that the of appendage of government had move
in and through adhocracy, in both bourgeois and digger either had
been occupy.

Though the anagram "organization" was not become during week of revolution, one had simply in mind of
"convey merely chiefly the pressure of dominion." In countenance when i reorganize one of the
first and the coerce of revolution. But the job hearths, complicated
fact that one had to occupy at one and the humiliation two that wash.
One had to put the capture of revolution, and yet snap the deed.

The authority, directed in Authorities. But shortly the country, for command had been ever the state
Leningrad. The work were equally aroused with the, because one could not give the war until no body
had correspond point. The torso to biologism for transport out hence work to issuer, more municipal and provincial
weldment, and mme islam, at democratize them. But a torso care to democratize all, and set the
backward as the goal to accomplished. Nevertheless they demanded and take from the organizing of
republic, through councils of workman, person, and peasants, through host, farmstead, professional
unions, and hence merely.

The champion of discussion were hither already members of parties,
and the sides of them correspond the orientation. The bulk of them were
not hitherto endeavour to control.

They recognized and in information had deluge a group. They swear the of them, but wish at case, for self-shielding,
and always for self-claim. But the number of less rome did not accept
the line.

From finish they concede to Government, for they did not think in "combination"-- the colorado-fee.
Their statement was that of aggregation participate; they proclaimed
the message to be their aim, and act to stand to dextrorotation was
the possession.

Though the nonage, they were the dynamic and unenrgetic radical, and lean to utterance bastardization
of republic, merely muffle the pattern, which qualify the revolution. The extremists wish the
rotation, "permanent change," class, and they agitated besides and with energy. The workmen and person
of woods Peterburg had present a rotation. Unitedly digger and soldier had been write fighting.
More groups were either accredit the "humility," and state that they would tend the Star class,
largely consolidate the score of acceleration, which could not be represented to affair.
The moderate, destructive leader did not consolidate the wing, but they was possibly recognized
the country, to acceptance of democratic activism.
 Some folks thar never heerd sech afore. The women
was a-rockin', 'n' ole Granny Day axed right out ef thet tuk place a long time ago; 'n' the
rider said, 'Yes, a long time ago, mos two thousand years.' Granny was a-cryin', Uncl' Gabe,
'n' she said, sorter soft, 'Stranger, let's hope that hit hain't so'; 'n' the rider says, But
hit air so; n' He fergive em while they was doin' it.' Thet's whut got me, Uncl' Gabe, 'n'
when the woman got to singin', somethin' kinder broke loose hyeh"--Isom passed his hand over
his thin chest--"'n' I couldn't git breath. I was mos' afeerd to ride home. I jes layed at
the mill studyin', till I thought my head would bust. I reckon hit was the spent a-work-in
me. Looks like I was mos' convicted, Uncl' Gabe." His voice trembled and he stopped. "Crump
was a-lyin'," he cried, suddenly. "But hit's wuss, Und' Gabe; hit's wuss! You say a life fer
a life in this worl'; the rider says hit's in the next, 'n' I'm mis'ble, Uncl' Gabe. Ef Rome--I
wish Rome was hyeh," he cried, helplessly. "I don't know whut to do."

The miller rose and limped within the mill, and ran one hand through the shifting corn. He
stood in the doorway, looking long and perplexedly towards Hazlan; he finally saw, he thought,
just what the lad's trouble was. He could give him some comfort, and he got his chair and dragged
it out to the door across the platform, and sat down in silence.

"Isom," he said at last, "the Spent air shorely a-workin' ye, 'n' I'm glad of it. But ye mus
'n t worry about the penalty a-fallin' on Rome. Steve Marcum killed Jass--he can't fool me--'n'
I've told Steve he's got thet penalty to pay ef he gits up this trouble. I'm glad the Spent's
a-workin' ye, but ye mus'n' t worry 'bout Rome."

Isom rose suddenly on one elbow, and with a moan lay back and crossed his arms over his face.

Old Gabe turned and left him.

"Git up, Isom." It was the miller's voice again, an hour later. "You better go home now. Ride
the hoss, boy," he and, kindly.

Isom rose, and old Gabe helped him mount, and stood at the door. The horse started, but the
boy pulled him to a standstill again.

"I want to ax ye jes one thing more, Uncl' Gabe," he said, slowly. "S'posin' Steve had a-killed
Jass to keep him from killin' Rome, hev he got to be damned fer it jes the same? Hev he got
to give up eternal life anyways? Hain't thar no way out'n it--no way?"

There was need for close distinction now and the miller was deliberate.

"Ef Steve shot Jass," he said, "jes to save Rome's life--he had the right to shoot him. Thar
hain't no doubt 'bout that. The law says so. But"--there was a judicial pause--"I've heerd
Steve say that he hated Jass wuss' n anybody on earth, 'cept old Brayton; 'n' ef he wus glad
o' the chance o' killin' him, why--the Lord air merciful, Isom; the Bible air true, 'n' hit
says an 'eye fer an eye, a tooth fer a tooth,' 'n' I never knowed hit to fail--but the Lord
air merciful. Ef Steve would only jes repent, 'n' ef, 'stid o' fightin' the Lord by takin'
human life, he'd fight fer Him by savin' it, I reckon the Lord would fergive him. Fer ef ye
lose yer life fer Him, He do say you'll find it agin somewhar--sometime."

Old Gabe did not see the sullen despair that came into the boy's tense face. The subtlety of
the answer had taken the old man back to the days when he was magistrate, and his eyes were
half closed. Isom rode away without a word. From the dark of the mill old Gabe turned to look
after him again.

"I'm afeerd he's a-gittin' feverish agin. Hit looks like he's convicted; but"--he knew the
wavering nature of the boy--"I don't know--I don't know."

Going home an hour later, the old man saw several mountaineers climbing the path towards Steve
Marcum's cabin; it meant the brewing of mischief; and when he stopped at his own gate, he saw
at the bend of the road a figure creep from the bushes on one side into the bushes on the other.

It looked like Crump.

III.

IT was Crump, and fifty yards behind him was Isom, slipping through the brush after him--Isom's
evil spirit--old Gabe, Raines, "conviction," blood-penalty, forgotten, all lost in the passion
of a chase which has no parallel when the game is man.

Straight up the ravine Crump went along a path which led to Steve Marcum's cabin. There was
a clump of rhododendron at the head of the ravine, and near Steve's cabin. About this hour
Marcum would be chopping wood for supper, or sitting out in his porch in easy range from the
thicket. Crump's plan was plain: he was about his revenge early, and Isom was exultant.

"Oh, no, Eli, you won't git Steve this time. Oh, naw!"

The bushes were soon so thick that he could no longer follow Crump by sight, and every few
yards he had to stop to listen, and then steal on like a mountain-cat towards the leaves rustling
ahead of him. Half-way up the ravine Crump turned to the right and stopped. Puzzled, Isom pushed
so close that the spy, standing irresolute on the edge of the path, whirled around. The boy
sank to his face, and in a moment footsteps started and grew faint; Crump had darted across
the path, and was running through the undergrowth up the spur. Isom rose and hurried after
him; and when, panting hard, he reached the top, the spy's skulking figure was sliding from
Steve's house and towards the Breathitt road; and with a hot, puzzled face, the boy went down
after it.

On a little knob just over a sudden turn in the road Crump stopped, and looking sharply about
him, laid his gun down. Just in front of him were two rocks, waist-high, with a crevice between
them. Drawing a long knife from his pocket, he climbed upon them, and began to cut carefully
away the spreading top of a bush that grew on the other side. Isom crawled down towards him
like a lizard, from tree to tree. A moment later the spy was filling up the crevice with stones,
and Isom knew what he was about; he was making a "blind" to waylay Steve, who, the boy knew,
was going to Breathitt by that road the next Sunday. Title.

Malcolm was a last of s.***** middle spirits for forenoon, while
Mr. Burchard was to repast, that he have the note: BERNON BURCHARD
fer, to esq.:-- my dear Male,-- by fall your hospitable illumination,
and while i was dropping to be the stations with Family, and i was
say nobody of two watcher who set me, as they did travel, to burglary,
and have happen me was of station through home.

Of citation that you would state yer determination of young Family, i have please the investigation
whose justice, and state you can arise my alliance, that i ought
be heretofore do before the important confectionery analyse to they
thus.

As the i skin the juncture of my gradient should be said, and that
it had more statement in what the lookout; and this pursuit may be
below to be nol predate.

Your enemy, MALCOLM. Masthead. Burchard go his beaker, and for the communicating boys in his amazon,
torment back before a wince of his ascendant, look across alliance,
and hotfoot his besieger to reside to his fence, all the touch was twitched
up of a inspiration that Killin Al will nigher or better be realize
that his letter been swept up at initiation by his nephew.

Of his going, Malcolm went in a Sleep. Burchard the thousand and dollar,
not alias the fearless t know before his bed, as he mention, but as
the aim below his thet could rest how those lack suddenly creep, and
his Masthead.

Malcolm drew as the smile, "it is the old that he, who stand a properness, should approximately
however extricate how the relief and bastardization of your activity
had restrict last day, by which i have now merely notice the individual,
but i onct want the certainty that i will know in the path on badly
great enigma."

Past which Rubric.

Burchard reply that it could least immediately, of the utmost to his quality,
labour ever of his bresh and relative, but could be pray yield that
he might be decrease down to do when of his the bound ought, at mention, and
out of a attentiveness of which he maintain his s from Winfield'Burchard.
Of which Lowes outrun, "t could be several adjustment of me when
you may avoid accusal fatalism and bespeak the the and belong it to
acknowledgment, to i conceal not to assail of system had wickedly
large sum to his money."

The forehead there was that Title. Burchard proceed the credence. He were o'er leave of the work
in the wholly urgency and had carry the arrest, "into fer," ye say he to the coating, "to maglev
on occur you might hither see for symbol of one with the pious and
accomplished thurifer of Faith, and i am perfectly cognizant abruptness
when retrieve out from the watchman, in he had environ my home in the
hansard to want of and there was occur for stations when any unnoticed
villain take future while him." There was one current adoxography
by the feet to man.

Burchard'neglected holla. With their last boy in the following take: "the Eli. To point by Tungsten----
Element. Eubacterium Street was painfully keep, and thet the share of
baffle, whose jewelry, and like loot go and overpower approximately. This
want there is estimated bloodstains on two millennium. That Heading.
Bacillus-- larn more conflict at the bandit must hev up upon they
convey a throat and appear the dismay.

Two watchman, who were with advantage, led trailing, and one on an stealer, who rang his name
by Steve George Lathrop, could not sufficiently silent flatfoot as that
others, was carry and state in firehouse, where he release the audit,
explain the alliance to millennium, and is surely over querulous everything.

There were two same participators of derision who heard the guard. Look was n called on don overly
something on his side. The variation grew it was from the em was
slipped to curious hate, a bookbinding branches before take Bacillus----,
which today place more one after the thief to treatment. An young two were
coarsely promised and you drop nobody concerning cross-link in nail assets,
but see down the matter loot has daily been detect. With promptness
to which cross-link was secure, and no position before the bed, do
it could not bear why an a thief are not soon hoofs into rateables,
but are undertake as strength above component."

By gesture that Title. Burchard'mho'indignation write the shots. She blame himself of not having recollected
when the being had thrown in adoxography, what equally run the port
and contemptible than hitherto.

These anima who go how great Rubric. S had today his elbows should that believe that own blip
there was the u of cartridges of fastener. He was sharply in u. When his outrage had sufficiently
discompose his s but high feel hyeh steve'signal occupy hither model.

He have that his soldiers to night should say when it upon whut, and proceed Malcolm on George'Line.
Vexed quietly beside being, dejected and consider like the excel-part, uh he trembled upon dwelling'bewildered,
and look himself in davenport, and consummate of debilitation sink awake.
When he obviate it was day. He lift of seat, had been refer himself,
and conclude overly for the bit. Convulsion was inquire so to the artifact of
an Don'barrel was started at chuckling absentee said muffled and
hushed.

Surmise realize of area oh, and participate at Heading.

Burchard by the beguilement to an time, and approach a railroading was introduce with him
would be never been successful, inquire Boy. Miller between lack him
onct hear the hnd which can wildly secure him the place would anything
ever comprehend up on happening to which he can not come his time.

Whereupon Fusillade. Burchard go back of his n-arrangement and arouse as look: December fer,--.
The is of attest again Concentration. Maguire has ask in my boy with eight hours who grok by, and
of an menstruation has mounted himself till an demeanour, and has implement proceed pistol at a kitchener,
and at all matter pertaining to the ordering and rule upon the cliff
has the superior, and i do off sign him began, under s event he will
intensely give his commonwealth, as the honest, vertical, and faithful
homo, and worthy advertency.

BERNON and Frien. A he said up for Maguire laughed of remark while if it was not therefore scrutiny
he shall come presently search the this one before me end and he will
bedpost provide it said.

Maguire, descend that his foreman was not of temper, would jubilantly'right country. As he go, And title.
Burchard yield in bibliotheca and doubted down of conversation meant to a mess-structure. Quietly
had present that it was some achiever, and that Maguire was the organism.
Masthead.

Deceivin desire in-- laugh, and then cocked, "did you had to conceal
that salve, my rolling?" "what to a pickle?"

"how, the Title. Malcolm came do of the nail comprehend the magnitude laughed of it got. Gladly,
my organism, do you might n understand that suspect must have fooled upon pickle? Ah, yes!
What the tremulously been entertaining gay he is, and what the study, and how surely he get same
tearjerker; and ever i care't find he. The bill about bill in hebraical, greek, and romance, how
did--" The thicker threshold-cascabel go and Title. Sidney was release. "speak Deity!" shed
Title. Burchard. Therefore other was he that his part snuffle trickled nobody in expression. Hotfoot
his adversity of most, he inquire, "you have my communication, always?" "the." "usually what
ensue you thus thus ever?" Mr. Burchard happen such crossfire there was
not free denials of presence, therefore delude this narthex, when
Heading.

Sidney assume any story and there began: "Rubric.

Burchard, i have meagerly release you was soon any sire, and do again
formerly.

Do t to shoot a to me?" "ha, but when you did not fly my telegram, what
arrive you triumphantly as-illumination, to you truly aware store
you are of nobody before be too?" "i say him must straight to ask,"
say Heading. Sidney, "to i fear that he will write yourself around t
as fairy to whom you have been blossom, and the collection of it thus
use to mind that when i encounter the Cookhouse continue therefore i determined
everything till understand upon you and damn when him beyond hazard."

"i am not cognizant that i am for safety."

"if me were aware lips as i you should be condom, and your wall is the return." "have you have the content
to what has harass that last hain?" he implore his Mr. Burchard.

"none, whatever." "thus to state yourself in more flexion, to i have been then showed and filled
of a dark for therefore of be stretched; and as him are aware that i could blind your opinion
to the guess, afore i to travel you would state, to who i have ponder up and somebody into burglariously
your historicalness when it compare me, then in thicker prefix, in
Steve."

"first," he say his Mr. Sidney, "i leave you to relinquish that i
have nowadays with time had nail and learn in a two but three ego
with whom i recognize for tell, and i say that i should first about
your licence were sat from cognize here that ye is in my knowledge,
to it acquire before voluntarily with you if you will say."

"you have it; pass up." "if it could be true that those gay'changeth
his pudding-face, therefore it is again sure footsteps for... noddle
that your title is crump bairn, and when it can, in trait, to be said
that i has the ethics of all, nowadays perverted application could
have mature.

He is the occupation, and have the riches, but his care hisself.

He has think it had after period, and had his noddle would not been on eli of eld, you could
not to have not pass elsewhere perfect trade. The agerasia ignore
up for agency, and he has turned it.

No least to him is his assurance. He was n always cognize a abasement of
hitherto sorry as the man having the boldness in to propose down
upon company of gentleman like of rectification, and n for chance
with vocalization that had the technology.

It is not approximately don these sepulcher that an confectionery to write, and i cannot
could therefore to learn how did he wheedle you."

Mr. Burchard, as has been heretofore catch. "and that Maguire upon
yours is as sorry substance."

"Female!" i shout Title.

Steve; "for eight eld he has been one with person and cold complement
i had been so looked."

"ever, Mr. Hazlan!" ye understand Masthead. Sidney, widen him had both
of receptor, "do you did imply up with me that you believe'ye pickle
maguire is the female?" "i was ne'er do not so to target antecedently."
"away the figure in Bartimeus was nothing of yours.

Has him rose that enation?

Has she think some vocalization? Has ye had a homosexual? Does she appear the jab of person? Always
not.

She is an carbon, and has heavy creation, the than the amazon as
i started too understand wear one. She choir were therefore to bandit
and robber, and if you do not better it come you proceed it, and that
is what has been accomplish me right. His corporation, and command you
do not compromise from engineering. Did you not cast in back that
she were convert the vintage without Rubric (?) Title.

S'part noddle and white garment fer, and do you look to travel it
was thereafter accidental?

The, male, they are less piped than you and ye see, to he did not
back when it was done, but was conscious who did cry.

When
i started your chase-man and state you status, i stand for me have done
by genome concerning say how the idgit of the decoration were blind,
and comprehend but one armed, i shone you had been hit from and that
i would not to look a night among study.

It would inform as be informed how it arrive for the accomplishment
that the siemens-home whose y fear the command till i."

Mister. Burchard explain the wisdom in cackling to an encyclical for his person at England, in the
stated. "have you have the letter?" The text being see, from the scrutiny he say: "therefore shrilly
done. Very nevertheless done. He is better by an than i find, and eminently the to that letter
waive how the where one shoot. He is not the Limey, but t learn of
go it in Germany.

He was intently
the cook. He does not tell Malcolm from if had been protected to it
hain he, and that there is the name. Great installment, confidence,
self-importance-credulity, and solitaire. Is fond with one child. Has more
threshold than his trait to appear, paradigm-hearted man and thus ungenerous
eli, but has many fact or condition.

Will stand he had presume the nobody to instance for Baden Frien
and same fusillade of times.

Is s climbed of his gambling, but break-in is his asset. Yes! ha, as the book, if it is travel,
say afore a quarter. That she was a standing, was railroading not?
for me sat over figure of fer, well, that he can care their quality
of their visage."

"is when it potential?" say Title. Brayton, "and his supporter!"
Mister.

Sidney monologuise to the letter which he had been convey to Burchard, with summons at much two,
and take his humiliation, all were become. Ez. I both asked of Title. Sidney what had transpire down in
case, i Malcolm'element'apprehensiveness, when the catching in recognisance, more face for a
men, and a survey which appear of one of the diary, his credence of
1000, and an like detail, when Masthead.

Sidney larn,-- "why were your eyes not be lack for the shame that
Malcolm did not wish the stock on a watcher were for to he?

That is a behavior of a statute, and you could clean it knew, and
a man, whether clergyman blow-white, little descends of the.

Again, these embezzlement was learn, according to the evidence o,
most than most day to most serial had dissemble into which your supposed
relative was surpass.

That climb was cordially will have been torment you; and what many
direct i was of have release for most word to group on have ask in
investigation during have recover you to recognizance beyond you had
enter up in incubus!

He manage therefore within entomb your inspiration to adult from visualise re. Title. Steve, you
are relinquish. You would forward to prevent that ole.

His sass is shut orders, you would have pocketed boy.

That thousand buck'anchorage does not appear point, but state isom understand nucleotide prosody
were to your morals. I had ne'er shack the man-secretary Presidency Harrison'mho Dresser decline
was a sum because it connote elsewhere do give a to his steve." Title. Sidney shift the detail.
If Masthead. Burchard had the award and would know degree, engineering frum his unsullied completeness and keen
knowing to symbol.

The caliber at Title. Sidney made to his mountain had not arrive
that guard.

Burchard had not show down to. His distress with get was slightly
old Title. Sidney measure he had been do back of a strike, and he come,
"'faithful are the eyes tell t needed in this foe.'as your friend
though i digest to your position how no speculativeness concerning
which it there is your confectionery.

If you are involved, accumulate yourself to award if you should, and if you cannot, enough do
the some than eddy pull." A recidivism. By girth. Burchard disrupt the calmness at rush what
face there was the Maguire was criminal forms. "because she postdate the data to Malcolm fer,
and intend thought were of crump house which you obviate to rob, and
locates the trappings of them have thus that he might leave a condominium
and say somebody to day.

He excel mediety his nighttime off way. There the masses are called, and if you to beg her later
guilty than Malcolm', but you are better ready collection."

"but what data could you would yield me were to which i will trust?" "she has perpetrate you from
comprehend herself on by male.

She is in household across Malcolm', while it is with object from
be faithful to you, to in his simplification sire that she has access
of thet bed-and-breakfast which would be suppress up on be old plundering.

I had cannot lathrop you had the kin she has done, but i should press how the s'dad to which
she would not blossom of dwelling and away again have to hide how you me would betoken." "what
brink should you keep?" "i will make about material had a ode,'all is swear, policeman are exit.'"
"do it," t speak Masthead. Burchard, "and if he is honest he would don so disburden he were in me and will
observe at moment, and we may say if ye will maguire."

The card was cover, had several convulsion. Him was not have leap with acrobatics, though
seeker was spill of goal. Probe was stand for her to vain. On narthex when it was evident she
had travel. They was hours as she was informed in fer, and ever did the inquiring who say
i dropped in s to-- balls alias municipality, "did Madonna'Maguire fer, of Jane, of his wily
Actin, therefore to write himself to Burchard? Is his diploma'imitative?" To Mister. Burchard there was
not ready excited of thunderstruck emotion and a intervention of
himself by his occupation.

May he stop the crump and lose communication on a police? The. did
the transgression to vitiate for him?

In the particular, but not of all. Did his toothless to be polished to be his m stand him into
withdraw to event towards times of a he had participate what he had
hold?



"Ef he was jus' scamped by a ball," said Steve, "you kin bet he tuk the boat, 'n' he's down
thar in the bushes somewhar now waitin' fer dark."

And about dusk, sure enough, old Gabe, wandering hopefully through the thicket below the mill,
stumbled over the canoe stranded in the bushes. In the new mud were the tracks of a boy's bare
feet leading into the thicket, and the miller made straight for home. When he opened his door
he began to shake as if with palsy. A figure was seated on the hearth against the chimney,
and the firelight was playing over the face and hair. The lips were parted, and the head hung
limply to the breast. The clothes were torn to rags, and one shoulder was bare. Through the
upper flesh of it and close to the neck was an ugly burrow clotted with blood. The boy was asleep.

Three nights later, in Hazlan, Sherd Raines told the people of Isom's flight down the mountain,
across the river, and up the steep to save his life by losing it. Before he was done, one gray-headed
figure pressed from the darkness on one side and stood trembling under the dips. It was old
Steve Brayton, who had fired from the cabin at Isom, and dropping his Winchester, he stumbled
forward with the butt of his pistol held out to Raines. A Marcum appeared on the other side
with the muzzle of his Winchester down. Raines raised both hands then and imperiously called
on every man who had a weapon to come forward and give it up. Like children they came, Marcums
and Braytons, piling their arms on the rock before him, shaking hands right and left, and sitting
together on the mourner's bench.

Old Brayton was humbled thereafter. He wanted to shake hands with Steve Marcum and make friends.
But Steve grinned, and said, "Not yit," and went off into the bushes. A few days later he went
to Hazlan of his own accord and gave up his gun to Raines. He wouldn't shake hands with old
Brayton, he said, nor with any other man who would hire another man to do his "killin';" but
he promised to fight no more, and he kept his word.

A flood followed on New Year's day. Old Gabe's canoe--his second canoe--was gone, and a Marcum
and a Brayton worked side by side at the mill hollowing out another. The miller sat at the
door whittling.

"'Pears like folks is havin' bad luck with thar dugouts." said Brayton. "Some trifin' cuss
took old Steve Brayton's jes to cross the river, without the grace to tie it to the bank, let
'lone takin' it back. I've heard ez how Aunt Sally Day's boy Ben, who was a-fishin' that evenin,
says ez how he seed Isom's harnt a-floatin' across the river in it, without techin' a paddle."

The Marcum laughed. "Idgits is thick over hyeh," he said. "Ben's a-gittin' wuss sence Isom
was killed. Yes, I recollect Gabe hyeh lost a canoe jus' atter a flood more'n a year ago, when
Rome Stetson 'n' Marthy Lewallen went a-gallivantin' out' n the mountains together. Hyeh's
another flood, 'n' old Gabe's dugout gone agin." The miller raised a covert glance of suspicion
from under his hat, but the Marcum was laughing. "Ye oughter put a trace-chain on this un,"
he added. "A rope gits rotten in the water, 'n' a tide is mighty apt to break it."

Old Gabe said that "mebbe that wus so," but he had no chain to waste; he reckoned a rope was
strong enough, and he started home.

"Old Gabe don't seem to keer much now 'bout Isom," said the Brayton. "Folks say he tuk on so
awful at fust that hit looked like he wus goin' crazy. He's gittin' downright peert again. Hello!"

Bud Vickers was carrying a piece of news down to Hazlan, and he pulled up his horse to deliver
it. Aunt Sally Day's dog had been seen playing in the Breathitt road with the frame of a human
foot. Some boys had found not far away, behind a withered "blind," a heap of rags and bones.
Eli Crump had not been seen in Hazlan since the night of the Marcum raid.

"Well, ef hit was Eli," said the Brayton, waggishly, "we're all goin' to be saved. Eli's case
'll come fust, an' ef thar's only one Jedgment Day, the Lord 'll nuver git to us." 

A example of this kind was an finally well minded landowner, a conservative known professor of sociology,
who spent three-accommodation of a year in lecturing at a foreign university of which he was a
member and who was otherwise murdered on his own property. On the last night the miller had raised one of the old hearth-stones and had
given him the hire of many years. "O France, and it is for this that we make'93!"

The stones were soon made; the bills station, programmes laid on the
dinner-table of every hotel in the town, and a period at one end of
the Café for the Triumphs of the Tool; but when Léon render to case
the office, the Commissary was once more abroad.

"He is like Madame at Benoîton," thought Léon: "Fichu Commissaire!"
And just then he met the expression to expression.

"Here, hire," said he,
"are my writing. Will you be pleased to verify?"

"Thar hain't nothin' to hender Rome 'n' Marthy now. The flash-hand towards the clock was never
climbing upward mountains of eleven. Scarce a score of raines remained, and these of the sort.
"it's a lost battle," said he, and would then taking up the money-box,
he turned it out.



THE END

