At this point it may be well to give briefly the few further salient facts of Warner's connection
with journalism proper. In 1867 the owners of the Press purchased the Courant, the well-known
morning paper which had been founded more than a century before, and consolidated the Press
with it. Of this journal, Hawley and Warner, now in part proprietors, were the editorial writers.
The former, who had been mustered out of the army with the rank of brevet Major-General, was
soon diverted from journalism by other employments. He was elected Governor, he became a member
of Congress, serving successively in both branches. The main editorial responsibility for the
conduct of the paper devolved in consequence upon Warner, and to it he gave up for years nearly
all his thought and attention. Once only during that early period was his labor interrupted
for any considerable length of time. In May, 1868, he set out on the first of his five trips
across the Atlantic. He was absent nearly a year. Yet even then he cannot be said to have neglected
his special work. Articles were sent weekly from the other side, describing what he saw and
experienced abroad. His active connection with the paper he never gave up absolutely, nor did
his interest in it ever cease. But after he became connected with the editorial staff of Harpers
Magazine the contributions he made to his journal were only occasional and what may be called
accidental.

When 1870 came, forty years of Warner's life had gone by, and nearly twenty years since he
had left college. During the latter ten years of this period he had been a most effective and
forcible leader-writer on political and social questions, never more so than during the storm
and stress of the Civil War. Outside of these topics he had devoted a great deal of attention
to matters connected with literature and art. His varied abilities were fully recognized by
the readers of the journal he edited.

But as yet there was little or no recognition outside. It is no easy matter to tell what are
the influences, what the circumstances, which determine the success of a particular writer
or of a particular work. Hitherto Warner's repute was mainly confined to the inhabitants of
a provincial capital and its outlying and dependent towns. However cultivated the class to
which his writings appealed--and as a class it was distinctly cultivated--their number was
necessarily not great. To the country at large what he did or what he was capable of doing
was not known at all. Some slight efforts he had occasionally put forth to secure the publication
of matter he had prepared. He experienced the usual fate of authors who seek to introduce into
the market literary wares of a new and better sort. Progress is undeniable, if it's not us,
it is what's around us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Although Napoleon had
many more means of warfare than Alexander the Great, he was not seen to be better at war than Alexander
the Great. Kant nor Hegel, having twentieth century scientific data, were worth as much as Aristotle.
To what sense and extent progress us undeniable Fed is understood.

 The opportunity thus presented itself of turning into a blessing the primeval curse
of tilling the soil, in this instance not with a hoe, but with a pen. These articles detailing
his experiences excited so much amusement and so much admiration that a general desire was
manifested that they should receive a more permanent life than that accorded to articles appearing
in the columns of newspapers, and should reach a circle larger than that to be found in the
society of the Connecticut capital. Warner's previous experience had not disposed him to try
his fortunes with the members of the publishing fraternity. In fact he did not lay so much
stress upon the articles as did his readers and friends. He always insisted that he had previously
written other articles which in his eyes certainly were just as good as they, if not better.

It so chanced that about this time Henry Ward Beecher came to Hartford to visit his sister,
Harriet Beecher Stowe. Warner was invited to meet him. In the course of the conversation the
articles just mentioned were referred to by some one of those present. Beecher's curiosity
was aroused and he expressed a desire to see them. To him they were accordingly sent for perusal.
No sooner had he run through them than he recognized in them the presence of a rare and delicate
humor which struck a distinctly new note in American literature. It was something he felt which
should not be confined to the knowledge of any limited circle. He wrote at once to the publisher
James T. Fields, urging the production of these articles in book form. Beecher's recommendation
in those days was sufficient to insure the acceptance of any book by any publisher. Mr. Fields
agreed to bring out the work, provided the great preacher would prefix an introduction. This
he promised to do and did; though in place of the somewhat more formal piece he was asked to
write, he sent what he called an introductory letter.

The series of papers published under the title of "My Summer in a Garden" came out at the very
end of 1870, with the date of 1871 on the title-page. The volume met with instantaneous success.
It was the subject of comment and conversation everywhere and passed rapidly through several
editions. There was a general feeling that a new writer had suddenly appeared, with a wit and
wisdom peculiarly his own, precisely like which nothing had previously existed in our literature.
To the later editions of the work was added an account of a cat which had been presented to
the author by the Stowes. For that reason it was given from the Christian name of the husband
of the novelist the title of Calvin. To this John was sometimes prefixed, as betokening from
the purely animal point of view a certain resemblance to the imputed grimness and earnestness
of the great reformer. There was nothing in the least exaggerated in the account which Warner
gave of the character and conduct of this really remarkable member of the feline race. No biography
was ever truer; no appreciation was ever more sympathetic; and in the long line of cats none
was ever more worthy to have his story truly and sympathetically told. All who had the fortune
to see Calvin in the flesh will recognize the accuracy with which his portrait was drawn. All
who read the account of him, though not having seen him, will find it one of the most charming
of descriptions. It has the fullest right to be termed a cat classic.

With the publication of "My Summer in a Garden" Warner was launched upon a career of authorship
which lasted without cessation during the thirty years that remained of his life. It covered
a wide field. His interests were varied and his activity was unremitting. What I deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress
as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery, and the superiority of the novels French and Russian
on our own, are that those are written in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I
will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is
progress, as we technician or call the office, but, well I admit,
I recognize also that technical and progressive literature, little
importance compared with the essential it, in which there is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance. Hence,
in a sense, may well be argued that it is more difficult to make a shoe that compose a poem. And
it is still easier and requires less propaedeutic writing a novel for which, prosody, art meter
and rhyming dictionary care little or nothing. So conceived, without any surprise, the vast number
of novels that make up now English, French, Russian, Italian, German, Hungarian, Polish, in
short, almost all the languages ​​spoken and written in the various civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo.
ous civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo.
 Many of those to which his name was not attached can no longer
be identified with any approach to certainty. About the preservation of much that he did--and
some of it belonged distinctly to his best and most characteristic work--he was singularly
careless, or it may be better to say, singularly indifferent.

If I may be permitted to indulge in the recital of a personal experience, there is one incident
I recall which will bring out this trait in a marked manner. Once on a visit to him I accompanied
him to the office of his paper. While waiting for him to discharge certain duties there, and
employing myself in looking over the exchanges, I chanced to light upon a leading article on
the editorial page of one of the most prominent of the New York dailies. It was devoted to
the consideration of some recent utterances of a noted orator who, after the actual mission
of his life had been accomplished, was employing the decline of it in the exploitation of every
political and economic vagary which it had entered into the addled brains of men to evolve.
The article struck me as one of the most brilliant and entertaining of its kind I had ever
read; it was not long indeed before it appeared that the same view of it was taken by many
others throughout the country. The peculiar wit of the comment, the keenness of the satire
made so much of an impression upon me that I called Warner away from his work to look at it.
At my request he hastily glanced over it, but somewhat to my chagrin failed to evince any enthusiasm
about it. On our way home I again spoke of it and was a good deal nettled at the indifference
towards it which he manifested. It seemed to imply that my critical judgment was of little
value; and however true might be his conclusion on that point, one does not enjoy having the
fact thrust too forcibly upon the attention in the familiarity of conversation. Resenting therefore
the tone he had assumed, I took occasion not only to reiterate my previously expressed opinion
somewhat more aggressively, but also went on to insinuate that he was himself distinctly lacking
in any real appreciation of what was excellent. He bore with me patiently for a while. "Well,
sonny," he said at last, "since you seem to take the matter so much to heart, I will tell you
in confidence that I wrote the piece myself." I found that this was not only true in the case
just specified, but that while engaged in preparing articles for his own paper he occasionally
prepared them for other journals. No one besides himself and those immediately concerned, ever
knew anything about the matter. He never asserted any right to these pieces, he never sought
to collect them, though some of them exhibited his happiest vein of humor. Unclaimed, unidentified,
they are swept into that wallet of oblivion in which time stows the best as well as the worst
of newspaper production.

The next volume of Warner's writings that made its appearance was entitled "Saunterings." It
was the first and, though good of its kind, was by no means the best of a class of productions
in which he was to exhibit signal excellence. It will be observed that of the various works
comprised in this collective edition, no small number consist of what by a wide extension of
the phrase may be termed books of travel. There are two or three which fall strictly under
that designation. Most of them, however, can be more properly called records of personal experience
and adventure in different places and regions, with the comments on life and character to which
they gave rise.

Books of travel, if they are expected to live, are peculiarly hard to write. If they come out
at a period when curiosity about the region described is predominant, they are fairly certain,
no matter how wretched, to achieve temporary success. But there is no kind of literary production
to which, by the very law of its being, it is more difficult to impart vitality. Paradoxical
as it may seem, it is perfectly true that the greatest hinderance to their permanent interest
is the information they furnish. The more full, specific and even accurate that is, the more
rapidly does the work containing it lose its value. The fresher knowledge conveyed by a new,
and it may be much inferior book, crowds out of circulation those which have gone before. The
changed or changing conditions in the region traversed renders the information previously furnished
out of date and even misleading. Hence the older works come in time to have only an antiquarian
interest. Their pages are consulted only by that very limited number of persons who are anxious
to learn what has been and view with stolid indifference what actually is. Something of this
transitory nature belongs to all sketches of travel. It is the one great reason why so very
few of the countless number of such works, written, and sometimes written by men of highest
ability, are hardly heard of a few years after publication. Travels form a species of literary
production in which great classics are exceedingly rare.

From this fatal characteristic, threatening the enduring life of such works, most of Warner's
writings of this sort were saved by the method of procedure he followed. He made it his main
object not to give facts but impressions. All details of exact information, everything calculated
to gratify the statistical mind or to quench the thirst of the seeker for purely useful information,
he was careful, whether consciously or unconsciously, to banish from those volumes of his in
which he followed his own bent and felt himself under no obligation to say anything but what
he chose. Hence these books are mainly a record of views of men and manners made by an acute
observer on the spot, and put down at the moment when the impression created was most vivid,
not deferred till familiarity had dulled the sense of it or custom had caused it to be disregarded.
Take as an illustration the little book entitled "Baddeck," one of the slightest of his productions
in this field. It purports to be and is nothing more than an account of a two weeks' tour made
to a Cape Breton locality in company with the delightful companion to whom it was dedicated.
You take it up with the notion that you are going to acquire information about the whole country
journeyed over, you are beguiled at times with the fancy that you are getting it. In the best
sense it may be said that you do get it; for it is the general impression of the various scenes
through which the expedition leads the travelers that is left upon the mind, not those accurate
details of a single one of them which the lapse of a year might render inaccurate. It is to
the credit of the work therefore than one gains from it little specific knowledge. In its place
are the reflections both wise and witty upon life, upon the characters of the men that are
met, upon the nature of the sights that are seen.

This is what constitutes the enduring charm of the best of these pictures of travel which Warner
produced. It is perhaps misleading to assert that they do not furnish a good deal of information.
Still it is not the sort of information which the ordinary tourist gives and which the cultivated
reader resents and is careful not to remember. Their dominant note is rather the quiet humor
of a delightful story-teller, who cannot fail to say something of interest because he has seen
so much; and who out of his wide and varied observation selects for recital certain sights
he has witnessed, certain experiences he has gone through, and so relates them that the way
the thing is told is even more interesting than the thing told. The chief value of these works
does not accordingly depend upon the accidental, which passes. Inns change and become better
or worse. Facilities for transportation increase or decrease. Scenery itself alters to some
extent under the operation of agencies brought to bear upon it for its own improvement or for
the improvement of something else. But man's nature remains a constant quantity. Traits seen
here and now are sure to be met with somewhere else, and even in ages to come. Hence works
of this nature, embodying descriptions of men and manners, always retain something of the freshness
which characterized them on the day of their appearance.

Of these productions in which the personal element predominates, and where the necessity of
intruding information is not felt as a burden, those of Warner's works which deal with the
Orient take the first rank. The two--"My Winter on the Nile" and "In the Levant"--constitute
the record of a visit to the East during the years 1875 and 1876.

They would naturally have of themselves the most permanent value, inasmuch as the countries
described have for most educated men an abiding interest. The lifelike representation and graphic
characterization which Warner was apt to display in his traveling sketches were here seen at
their best, because nowhere else did he find the task of description more congenial. Alike
the gorgeousness and the squalor of the Orient appealed to his artistic sympathies. Egypt in
particular had for him always a special fascination. Twice he visited it--at the time just
mentioned and again in the winter of 1881-82. He rejoiced in every effort made to dispel the
obscurity which hung over its early history. No one, outside of the men most immediately concerned,
took a deeper interest than he in the work of the Egyptian Exploration Society, of which he
was one of the American vice-presidents. To promoting its success he gave no small share of
time and attention. Everything connected with either the past or the present of the country
had for him an attraction. A civilization which had been flourishing for centuries, when the
founder of Israel was a wandering sheik on the Syrian plains or in the hill-country of Canaan;
the slow unraveling of records of dynasties of forgotten kings; the memorials of Egypt's vanished
greatness and the vision of her future prosperity these and things similar to these made this
country, so peculiarly the gift of the Nile, of fascinating interest to the modern traveler
who saw the same sights which had met the eyes of Herodotus nearly twenty-five hundred years
before.

To the general public the volume which followed--"In the Levant"--was perhaps of even deeper
interest. At all events it dealt with scenes and memories with which every reader, educated
or uneducated, had associations. The region through which the founder of Christianity wandered,
the places he visited, the words he said in them, the acts he did, have never lost their hold
over the hearts of men, not even during the periods when the precepts of Christianity have
had the least influence over the conduct of those who professed to it their allegiance. In
the Levant, too, were seen the beginnings of commerce, of art, of letters, in the forms in
which the modern world best knows them. These, therefore, have always made the lands about
the eastern Mediterranean an attraction to cultivated men and the interest of the subject accordingly
reinforced the skill of the writer.

There are two or three of these works which can not be included in the class just described.
They were written for the specific purpose of giving exact information at the time. Of these
the most noticeable are the volumes entitled "South and West" and the account of Southern California
which goes under the name of "Our Italy." They are the outcome of journeys made expressly with
the intent of investigating and reporting upon the actual situation and apparent prospects
of the places and regions described. As they were written to serve an immediate purpose, much
of the information contained in them tends to grow more and more out of date as time goes on;
and though of value to the student of history, these volumes must necessarily become of steadily
diminishing interest to the ordinary reader. Yet it is to be said of them that while the pill
of useful information is there, it has at least been sugar-coated. Nor can we afford to lose
sight of the fact that the widely-circulated articles, collected under the title of "South
and West," by the spirit pervading them as well as by the information they gave, had a marked
effect in bringing the various sections of the country into a better understanding of one another,
and in imparting to all a fuller sense of the community they possessed in profit and loss,
in honor and dishonor.

It is a somewhat singular fact that these sketches of travel led Warner incidentally to enter
into an entirely new field of literary exertion. This was novel-writing. Something of this
nature he had attempted in conjunction with Mark Twain in the composition of "The Gilded Age,"
which appeared in 1873. The result, however, was unsatisfactory to both the collaborators.
Each had humor, but the humor of each was fundamentally different. But the magazine with which
Warner had become connected was desirous that he should prepare for it an account of some of
the principal watering-places and summer resorts of the country. Each was to be visited in
turn and its salient features were to be described. It was finally suggested that this could
be done most effectively by weaving into a love story occurrences that might happen at a number
of these places which were made the subjects of description. The principal characters were
to take their tours under the personal conduct of the novelist. They were to go to the particular
spots selected North and South, according to the varying seasons of the year. It was a somewhat
novel way of, visiting resorts of this nature; there are those to whom it will seem altogether
more agreeable than would be the visiting of them in person. Hence appeared in 1886 the articles
which were collected later in the volume entitled "Their Pilgrimage."

