TALES OF MEN AND GHOSTS

BY

EDITH WHARTON

LONDON

1910

CONTENTS

I The Bolted Door II His Father's Son III The Daunt Diana IV The Debt V Full Circle VI The
Legend VII The Eyes VIII The Blond Beast IX Afterward X The Letters

THE BOLTED DOOR

I

HUBERT GRANICE, pacing the length of his pleasant lamp-lit library, paused to compare his watch
with the clock on the chimney-piece.

Three minutes to eight.

In exactly three minutes Mr. Peter Ascham, of the eminent legal firm of Ascham and Pettilow,
would have his punctual hand on the door-bell of the flat. It was a comfort to reflect that
Ascham was so punctual--the suspense was beginning to make his host nervous. And the sound
of the door-bell would be the beginning of the end--after that there'd be no going back, by
God--no going back!

Granice resumed his pacing. Each time he reached the end of the room opposite the door he caught
his reflection in the Florentine mirror above the fine old walnut credence he had picked up
at Dijon--saw himself spare, quick-moving, carefully brushed and dressed, but furrowed, gray
about the temples, with a stoop which he corrected by a spasmodic straightening of the shoulders
whenever a glass confronted him: a tired middle-aged man, baffled, beaten, worn out.

As he summed himself up thus for the third or fourth time the door opened and he turned with
a thrill of relief to greet his guest. But it was only the man-servant who entered, advancing
silently over the mossy surface of the old Turkey rug.

"Mr. Ascham telephones, sir, to say he's unexpectedly detained and can't be here till eight-thirty."

Granice made a curt gesture of annoyance. It was becoming harder and harder for him to control
these reflexes. He turned on his heel, tossing to the servant over his shoulder: "Very good.
Put off dinner."

Down his spine he felt the man's injured stare. Mr. Granice had always been so mild-spoken
to his people--no doubt the odd change in his manner had already been noticed and discussed
below stairs. And very likely they suspected the cause. He stood drumming on the writing-table
till he heard the servant go out; then he threw himself into a chair, propping his elbows on
the table and resting his chin on his locked hands.

Another half hour alone with it!

He wondered irritably what could have detained his guest. Some professional matter, no doubt--the
punctilious lawyer would have allowed nothing less to interfere with a dinner engagement, more
especially since Granice, in his note, had said: "I shall want a little business chat afterward."

But what professional matter could have come up at that unprofessional hour? Perhaps some other
soul in misery had called on the lawyer; and, after all, Granice's note had given no hint of
his own need! No doubt Ascham thought he merely wanted to make another change in his will.
Since he had come into his little property, ten years earlier, Granice had been perpetually
tinkering with his will.

Suddenly another thought pulled him up, sending a flush to his sallow temples. He remembered
a word he had tossed to the lawyer some six weeks earlier, at the Century Club. "Yes--my play's
as good as taken. I shall be calling on you soon to go over the contract. Those theatrical
chaps are so slippery--I won't trust anybody but you to tie the knot for me!" That, of course,
was what Ascham would think he was wanted for. Granice, at the idea, broke into an audible
laugh--a queer stage-laugh, like the cackle of a baffled villain in a melodrama. The absurdity,
the unnaturalness of the sound abashed him, and he compressed his lips angrily. Would he take
to soliloquy next?

He lowered his arms and pulled open the upper drawer of the writing-table. In the right-hand
corner lay a thick manuscript, bound in paper folders, and tied with a string beneath which
a letter had been slipped. Next to the manuscript was a small revolver. Granice stared a moment
at these oddly associated objects; then he took the letter from under the string and slowly
began to open it. He had known he should do so from the moment his hand touched the drawer.
Whenever his eye fell on that letter some relentless force compelled him to re-read it.

It was dated about four weeks back, under the letter-head of "The Diversity Theatre." "MY DEAR
MR. GRANICE:

"I have given the matter my best consideration for the last month, and it's no use--the play
won't do. I have talked it over with Miss Melrose--and you know there isn't a gamer artist
on our stage--and I regret to tell you she feels just as I do about it. It isn't the poetry
that scares her--or me either. We both want to do all we can to help along the poetic drama--we
believe the public's ready for it, and we're willing to take a big financial risk in order
to be the first to give them what they want. But we don't believe they could be made to want
this. The fact is, there isn't enough drama in your play to the allowance of poetry--the thing
drags all through. You've got a big idea, but it's not out of swaddling clothes.

"If this was your first play I'd say: Try again. But it has been just the same with all the
others you've shown me. And you remember the result of 'The Lee Shore,' where you carried all
the expenses of production yourself, and we couldn't fill the theatre for a week. Yet 'The
Lee Shore' was a modern problem play--much easier to swing than blank verse. It isn't as if
you hadn't tried all kinds--"

Granice folded the letter and put it carefully back into the envelope. Why on earth was he
re-reading it, when he knew every phrase in it by heart, when for a month past he had seen
it, night after night, stand out in letters of flame against the darkness of his sleepless lids?

"It has been just the same with all the others you've shown me."

That was the way they dismissed ten years of passionate unremitting work!

"You remember the result of 'The Lee Shore.'"

Good God--as if he were likely to forget it! He re-lived it all now in a drowning flash: the
persistent rejection of the play, his sudden resolve to put it on at his own cost, to spend
ten thousand dollars of his inheritance on testing his chance of success--the fever of preparation,
the dry-mouthed agony of the "first night," the flat fall, the stupid press, his secret rush
to Europe to escape the condolence of his friends!

"It isn't as if you hadn't tried all kinds."

No--he had tried all kinds: comedy, tragedy, prose and verse, the light curtain-raiser, the
short sharp drama, the bourgeois-realistic and the lyrical-romantic--finally deciding that
he would no longer "prostitute his talent" to win popularity, but would impose on the public
his own theory of art in the form of five acts of blank verse. Yes, he had offered them everything--and
always with the same result.

Ten years of it--ten years of dogged work and unrelieved failure. The ten years from forty
to fifty--the best ten years of his life! And if one counted the years before, the silent years
of dreams, assimilation, preparation--then call it half a man's life-time: half a man's life-time
thrown away!

And what was he to do with the remaining half? Well, he had settled that, thank God! He turned
and glanced anxiously at the clock. Ten minutes past eight--only ten minutes had been consumed
in that stormy rush through his whole past! And he must wait another twenty minutes for Ascham.
It was one of the worst symptoms of his case that, in proportion as he had grown to shrink
from human company, he dreaded more and more to be alone. ... But why the devil was he waiting
for Ascham? Why didn't he cut the knot himself? Since he was so unutterably sick of the whole
business, why did he have to call in an outsider to rid him of this nightmare of living?

He opened the drawer again and laid his hand on the revolver. It was a small slim ivory toy--just
the instrument for a tired sufferer to give himself a "hypodermic" with. Granice raised it
slowly in one hand, while with the other he felt under the thin hair at the back of his head,
between the ear and the nape. He knew just where to place the muzzle: he had once got a young
surgeon to show him. And as he found the spot, and lifted the revolver to it, the inevitable
phenomenon occurred. The hand that held the weapon began to shake, the tremor communicated
itself to his arm, his heart gave a wild leap which sent up a wave of deadly nausea to his
throat, he smelt the powder, he sickened at the crash of the bullet through his skull, and
a sweat of fear broke out over his forehead and ran down his quivering face...

He laid away the revolver with an oath and, pulling out a cologne-scented handkerchief, passed
it tremulously over his brow and temples. It was no use--he knew he could never do it in that
way. His attempts at self-destruction were as futile as his snatches at fame! He couldn't make
himself a real life, and he couldn't get rid of the life he had. And that was why he had sent
for Ascham to help him...

The lawyer, over the Camembert and Burgundy, began to excuse himself for his delay.

"I didn't like to say anything while your man was about--but the fact is, I was sent for on
a rather unusual matter--"

"Oh, it's all right," said Granice cheerfully. He was beginning to feel the usual reaction
that food and company produced. It was not any recovered pleasure in life that he felt, but
only a deeper withdrawal into himself. It was easier to go on automatically with the social
gestures than to uncover to any human eye the abyss within him.

"My dear fellow, it's sacrilege to keep a dinner waiting--especially the production of an artist
like yours." Mr. Ascham sipped his Burgundy luxuriously. "But the fact is, Mrs. Ashgrove sent
for me."

Granice raised his head with a quick movement of surprise. For a moment he was shaken out of
his self-absorption.

"Mrs. Ashgrove?"

Ascham smiled. "I thought you'd be interested; I know your passion for causes celebres. And
this promises to be one. Of course it's out of our line entirely--we never touch criminal cases.
But she wanted to consult me as a friend. Ashgrove was a distant connection of my wife's. And,
by Jove, it is a queer case!" The servant re-entered, and Ascham snapped his lips shut.

Would the gentlemen have their coffee in the dining-room?

"No--serve it in the library," said Granice, rising. He led the way back to the curtained confidential
room. He was really curious to hear what Ascham had to tell him.

While the coffee and cigars were being served he fidgeted about the library, glancing at his
letters--the usual meaningless notes and bills--and picking up the evening paper. As he unfolded
it a headline caught his eye.

"ROSE MELROSE WANTS TO PLAY POETRY.

"THINKS SHE HAS FOUND HER POET."

He read on with a thumping heart--found the name of a young author he had barely heard of,
saw the title of a play, a "poetic drama," dance before his eyes, and dropped the paper, sick,
disgusted. It was true, then--she was "game"--it was not the manner but the matter she mistrusted!

Granice turned to the servant, who seemed to be purposely lingering. "I shan't need you this
evening, Flint. I'll lock up myself."

He fancied the man's acquiescence implied surprise. What was going on, Flint seemed to wonder,
that Mr. Granice should want him out of the way? Probably he would find a pretext for coming
back to see. Granice suddenly felt himself enveloped in a network of espionage.

As the door closed he threw himself into an armchair and leaned forward to take a light from
Ascham's cigar.

"Tell me about Mrs. Ashgrove," he said, seeming to himself to speak stiffly, as if his lips
were cracked.

"Mrs. Ashgrove? Well, there's not much to tell."

"And you couldn't if there were?" Granice smiled.

"Probably not. As a matter of fact, she wanted my advice about her choice of counsel. There
was nothing especially confidential in our talk."

"And what's your impression, now you've seen her?"

"My impression is, very distinctly, that nothing will ever be known."

"Ah--?" Granice murmured, puffing at his cigar.

"I'm more and more convinced that whoever poisoned Ashgrove knew his business, and will consequently
never be found out. That's a capital cigar you've given me."

"You like it? I get them over from Cuba." Granice examined his own reflectively. "Then you
believe in the theory that the clever criminals never are caught?"

"Of course I do. Look about you--look back for the last dozen years--none of the big murder
problems are ever solved." The lawyer ruminated behind his blue cloud. "Why, take the instance
in your own family: I'd forgotten I had an illustration at hand! Take old Joseph Lenman's murder--do
you suppose that will ever be explained?"

As the words dropped from Ascham's lips his host looked slowly about the library, and every
object in it stared back at him with a stale unescapable familiarity. How sick he was of looking
at that room! It was as dull as the face of a wife one has wearied of. He cleared his throat
slowly; then he turned his head to the lawyer and said: "I could explain the Lenman murder myself."

Ascham's eye kindled: he shared Granice's interest in criminal cases.

"By Jove! You've had a theory all this time? It's odd you never mentioned it. Go ahead and
tell me. There are certain features in the Lenman case not unlike this Ashgrove affair, and
your idea may be a help."

Granice paused and his eye reverted instinctively to the table drawer in which the revolver
and the manuscript lay side by side. What if he were to try another appeal to Rose Melrose?
Then he looked at the notes and bills on the table, and the horror of taking up again the lifeless
routine of life--of performing the same automatic gestures another day--displaced his fleeting
vision.

"I haven't a theory. I know who murdered Joseph Lenman."

Ascham settled himself comfortably in his chair, prepared for enjoyment.

"You know? Well, who did?" he laughed.

"I did," said Granice, rising.

He stood before Ascham, and the lawyer lay back staring up at him. Then he broke into another
laugh.

"Why, this is glorious! You murdered him, did you? To inherit his money, I suppose? Better
and better! Go on, my boy! Unbosom yourself! Tell me all about it! Confession is good for the
soul."

Granice waited till the lawyer had shaken the last peal of laughter from his throat; then he
repeated doggedly: "I murdered him."

The two men looked at each other for a long moment, and this time Ascham did not laugh.

"Granice!"

"I murdered him--to get his money, as you say."

There was another pause, and Granice, with a vague underlying sense of amusement, saw his guest's
look change from pleasantry to apprehension.

"What's the joke, my dear fellow? I fail to see."

"It's not a joke. It's the truth. I murdered him." He had spoken painfully at first, as if
there were a knot in his throat; but each time he repeated the words he found they were easier
to say.

Ascham laid down his extinct cigar.

"What's the matter? Aren't you well? What on earth are you driving at?"

"I'm perfectly well. But I murdered my cousin, Joseph Lenman, and I want it known that I murdered
him."

"You want it known?"

"Yes. That's why I sent for you. I'm sick of living, and when I try to kill myself I funk it."
He spoke quite naturally now, as if the knot in his throat had been untied.

"Good Lord--good Lord," the lawyer gasped.

"But I suppose," Granice continued, "there's no doubt this would be murder in the first degree?
I'm sure of the chair if I own up?"

Ascham drew a long breath; then he said slowly: "Sit down, Granice. Let's talk."

II

GRANICE told his story simply, connectedly.

He began by a quick survey of his early years--the years of drudgery and privation. His father,
a charming man who could never say "no," had so signally failed to say it on certain essential
occasions that when he died he left an illegitimate family and a mortgaged estate. His lawful
kin found themselves hanging over a gulf of debt, and young Granice, to support his mother
and sister, had to leave Harvard and bury himself at eighteen in a broker's office. He loathed
his work, and he was always poor, always worried and in ill-health. A few years later his mother
died, but his sister, an ineffectual neurasthenic, remained on his hands. His own health gave
out, and he had to go away for six months, and work harder than ever when he came back. He
had no knack for business, no head for figures, no dimmest insight into the mysteries of commerce.
He wanted to travel and write--those were his inmost longings. And as the years dragged on,
and he neared middle-age without making any more money, or acquiring any firmer health, a sick
despair possessed him. He tried writing, but he always came home from the office so tired that
his brain could not work. For half the year he did not reach his dim up-town flat till after
dark, and could only "brush up" for dinner, and afterward lie on the lounge with his pipe,
while his sister droned through the evening paper. Sometimes he spent an evening at the theatre;
or he dined out, or, more rarely, strayed off with an acquaintance or two in quest of what
is known as "pleasure." And in summer, when he and Kate went to the sea-side for a month, he
dozed through the days in utter weariness. Once he fell in love with a charming girl--but what
had he to offer her, in God's name? She seemed to like him, and in common decency he had to
drop out of the running. Apparently no one replaced him, for she never married, but grew stoutish,
grayish, philanthropic--yet how sweet she had been when he had first kissed her! One more wasted
life, he reflected...

But the stage had always been his master-passion. He would have sold his soul for the time
and freedom to write plays! It was in him--he could not remember when it had not been his deepest-seated
instinct. As the years passed it became a morbid, a relentless obsession--yet with every year
the material conditions were more and more against it. He felt himself growing middle-aged,
and he watched the reflection of the process in his sister's wasted face. At eighteen she had
been pretty, and as full of enthusiasm as he. Now she was sour, trivial, insignificant--she
had missed her chance of life. And she had no resources, poor creature, was fashioned simply
for the primitive functions she had been denied the chance to fulfil! It exasperated him to
think of it--and to reflect that even now a little travel, a little health, a little money,
might transform her, make her young and desirable... The chief fruit of his experience was
that there is no such fixed state as age or youth--there is only health as against sickness,
wealth as against poverty; and age or youth as the outcome of the lot one draws.

At this point in his narrative Granice stood up, and went to lean against the mantel-piece,
looking down at Ascham, who had not moved from his seat, or changed his attitude of rigid fascinated
attention.

"Then came the summer when we went to Wrenfield to be near old Lenman--my mother's cousin,
as you know. Some of the family always mounted guard over him--generally a niece or so. But
that year they were all scattered, and one of the nieces offered to lend us her cottage if
we'd relieve her of duty for two months. It was a nuisance for me, of course, for Wrenfield
is two hours from town; but my mother, who was a slave to family observances, had always been
good to the old man, so it was natural we should be called on--and there was the saving of
rent and the good air for Kate. So we went.

"You never knew Joseph Lenman? Well, picture to yourself an amoeba or some primitive organism
of that sort, under a Titan's microscope. He was large, undifferentiated, inert--since I could
remember him he had done nothing but take his temperature and read the Churchman. Oh, and cultivate
melons--that was his hobby. Not vulgar, out-of-door melons--his were grown under glass. He
had miles of it at Wrenfield--his big kitchen-garden was surrounded by blinking battalions
of green-houses. And in nearly all of them melons were grown--early melons and late, French,
English, domestic--dwarf melons and monsters: every shape, colour and variety. They were petted
and nursed like children--a staff of trained attendants waited on them. I'm not sure they didn't
have a doctor to take their temperature--at any rate the place was full of thermometers. And
they didn't sprawl on the ground like ordinary melons; they were trained against the glass
like nectarines, and each melon hung in a net which sustained its weight and left it free on
all sides to the sun and air...

"It used to strike me sometimes that old Lenman was just like one of his own melons--the pale-fleshed
English kind. His life, apathetic and motionless, hung in a net of gold, in an equable warm
ventilated atmosphere, high above sordid earthly worries. The cardinal rule of his existence
was not to let himself be 'worried.' . . I remember his advising me to try it myself, one day
when I spoke to him about Kate's bad health, and her need of a change. 'I never let myself
worry,' he said complacently. 'It's the worst thing for the liver--and you look to me as if
you had a liver. Take my advice and be cheerful. You'll make yourself happier and others too.'
And all he had to do was to write a cheque, and send the poor girl off for a holiday!

"The hardest part of it was that the money half-belonged to us already. The old skin-flint
only had it for life, in trust for us and the others. But his life was a good deal sounder
than mine or Kate's--and one could picture him taking extra care of it for the joke of keeping
us waiting. I always felt that the sight of our hungry eyes was a tonic to him.

"Well, I tried to see if I couldn't reach him through his vanity. I flattered him, feigned
a passionate interest in his melons. And he was taken in, and used to discourse on them by
the hour. On fine days he was driven to the green-houses in his pony-chair, and waddled through
them, prodding and leering at the fruit, like a fat Turk in his seraglio. When he bragged to
me of the expense of growing them I was reminded of a hideous old Lothario bragging of what
his pleasures cost. And the resemblance was completed by the fact that he couldn't eat as much
as a mouthful of his melons--had lived for years on buttermilk and toast. 'But, after all,
it's my only hobby--why shouldn't I indulge it?' he said sentimentally. As if I'd ever been
able to indulge any of mine! On the keep of those melons Kate and I could have lived like gods...

"One day toward the end of the summer, when Kate was too unwell to drag herself up to the big
house, she asked me to go and spend the afternoon with cousin Joseph. It was a lovely soft
September afternoon--a day to lie under a Roman stone-pine, with one's eyes on the sky, and
let the cosmic harmonies rush through one. Perhaps the vision was suggested by the fact that,
as I entered cousin Joseph's hideous black walnut library, I passed one of the under-gardeners,
a handsome full-throated Italian, who dashed out in such a hurry that he nearly knocked me
down. I remember thinking it queer that the fellow, whom I had often seen about the melon-houses,
did not bow to me, or even seem to see me.

"Cousin Joseph sat in his usual seat, behind the darkened windows, his fat hands folded on
his protuberant waistcoat, the last number of the Churchman at his elbow, and near it, on a
huge dish, a fat melon--the fattest melon I'd ever seen. As I looked at it I pictured the ecstasy
of contemplation from which I must have roused him, and congratulated myself on finding him
in such a mood, since I had made up my mind to ask him a favour. Then I noticed that his face,
instead of looking as calm as an egg-shell, was distorted and whimpering--and without stopping
to greet me he pointed passionately to the melon.

"'Look at it, look at it--did you ever see such a beauty? Such firmness--roundness--such delicious
smoothness to the touch?' It was as if he had said 'she' instead of 'it,' and when he put out
his senile hand and touched the melon I positively had to look the other way.

"Then he told me what had happened. The Italian under-gardener, who had been specially recommended
for the melon-houses--though it was against my cousin's principles to employ a Papist--had
been assigned to the care of the monster: for it had revealed itself, early in its existence,
as destined to become a monster, to surpass its plumpest, pulpiest sisters, carry off prizes
at agricultural shows, and be photographed and celebrated in every gardening paper in the land.
The Italian had done well--seemed to have a sense of responsibility. And that very morning
he had been ordered to pick the melon, which was to be shown next day at the county fair, and
to bring it in for Mr. Lenman to gaze on its blonde virginity. But in picking it, what had
the damned scoundrelly Jesuit done but drop it--drop it crash on the sharp spout of a watering-pot,
so that it received a deep gash in its firm pale rotundity, and was henceforth but a bruised,
ruined, fallen melon?

"The old man's rage was fearful in its impotence--he shook, spluttered and strangled with it.
He had just had the Italian up and had sacked him on the spot, without wages or character--had
threatened to have him arrested if he was ever caught prowling about Wrenfield. 'By God, and
I'll do it--I'll write to Washington--I'll have the pauper scoundrel deported! I'll show him
what money can do!' As likely as not there was some murderous Black-hand business under it--it
would be found that the fellow was a member of a 'gang.' Those Italians would murder you for
a quarter. He meant to have the police look into it... And then he grew frightened at his own
excitement. 'But I must calm myself,' he said. He took his temperature, rang for his drops,
and turned to the Churchman. He had been reading an article on Nestorianism when the melon
was brought in. He asked me to go on with it, and I read to him for an hour, in the dim close
room, with a fat fly buzzing stealthily about the fallen melon.

"All the while one phrase of the old man's buzzed in my brain like the fly about the melon.
'I'll show him what money can do!' Good heaven! If I could but show the old man! If I could
make him see his power of giving happiness as a new outlet for his monstrous egotism! I tried
to tell him something about my situation and Kate's--spoke of my ill-health, my unsuccessful
drudgery, my longing to write, to make myself a name--I stammered out an entreaty for a loan.
'I can guarantee to repay you, sir--I've a half-written play as security...'

"I shall never forget his glassy stare. His face had grown as smooth as an egg-shell again--his
eyes peered over his fat cheeks like sentinels over a slippery rampart.

"'A half-written play--a play of yours as security?' He looked at me almost fearfully, as if
detecting the first symptoms of insanity. 'Do you understand anything of business?' he enquired
mildly. I laughed and answered: 'No, not much.'

"He leaned back with closed lids. 'All this excitement has been too much for me,' he said.
'If you'll excuse me, I'll prepare for my nap.' And I stumbled out of the room, blindly, like
the Italian."

Granice moved away from the mantel-piece, and walked across to the tray set out with decanters
and soda-water. He poured himself a tall glass of soda-water, emptied it, and glanced at Ascham's
dead cigar.

"Better light another," he suggested.

The lawyer shook his head, and Granice went on with his tale. He told of his mounting obsession--how
the murderous impulse had waked in him on the instant of his cousin's refusal, and he had muttered
to himself: "By God, if you won't, I'll make you." He spoke more tranquilly as the narrative
proceeded, as though his rage had died down once the resolve to act on it was taken. He applied
his whole mind to the question of how the old man was to be "disposed of." Suddenly he remembered
the outcry: "Those Italians will murder you for a quarter!" But no definite project presented
itself: he simply waited for an inspiration.

Granice and his sister moved to town a day or two after the incident of the melon. But the
cousins, who had returned, kept them informed of the old man's condition. One day, about three
weeks later, Granice, on getting home, found Kate excited over a report from Wrenfield. The
Italian had been there again--had somehow slipped into the house, made his way up to the library,
and "used threatening language." The house-keeper found cousin Joseph gasping, the whites of
his eyes showing "something awful." The doctor was sent for, and the attack warded off; and
the police had ordered the Italian from the neighbourhood.

But cousin Joseph, thereafter, languished, had "nerves," and lost his taste for toast and butter-milk.
The doctor called in a colleague, and the consultation amused and excited the old man--he became
once more an important figure. The medical men reassured the family--too completely!--and to
the patient they recommended a more varied diet: advised him to take whatever "tempted him."
And so one day, tremulously, prayerfully, he decided on a tiny bit of melon. It was brought
up with ceremony, and consumed in the presence of the house-keeper and a hovering cousin; and
twenty minutes later he was dead...

"But you remember the circumstances," Granice went on; "how suspicion turned at once on the
Italian? In spite of the hint the police had given him he had been seen hanging about the house
since 'the scene.' It was said that he had tender relations with the kitchen-maid, and the
rest seemed easy to explain. But when they looked round to ask him for the explanation he was
gone--gone clean out of sight. He had been 'warned' to leave Wrenfield, and he had taken the
warning so to heart that no one ever laid eyes on him again."

Granice paused. He had dropped into a chair opposite the lawyer's, and he sat for a moment,
his head thrown back, looking about the familiar room. Everything in it had grown grimacing
and alien, and each strange insistent object seemed craning forward from its place to hear him.

"It was I who put the stuff in the melon," he said. "And I don't want you to think I'm sorry
for it. This isn't 'remorse,' understand. I'm glad the old skin-flint is dead--I'm glad the
others have their money. But mine's no use to me any more. My sister married miserably, and
died. And I've never had what I wanted."

Ascham continued to stare; then he said: "What on earth was your object, then?"

"Why, to get what I wanted--what I fancied was in reach! I wanted change, rest, life, for both
of us--wanted, above all, for myself, the chance to write! I travelled, got back my health,
and came home to tie myself up to my work. And I've slaved at it steadily for ten years without
reward--without the most distant hope of success! Nobody will look at my stuff. And now I'm
fifty, and I'm beaten, and I know it." His chin dropped forward on his breast. "I want to chuck
the whole business," he ended.

III

IT was after midnight when Ascham left.

His hand on Granice's shoulder, as he turned to go--"District Attorney be hanged; see a doctor,
see a doctor!" he had cried; and so, with an exaggerated laugh, had pulled on his coat and
departed.

Granice turned back into the library. It had never occurred to him that Ascham would not believe
his story. For three hours he had explained, elucidated, patiently and painfully gone over
every detail--but without once breaking down the iron incredulity of the lawyer's eye.

At first Ascham had feigned to be convinced--but that, as Granice now perceived, was simply
to get him to expose himself, to entrap him into contradictions. And when the attempt failed,
when Granice triumphantly met and refuted each disconcerting question, the lawyer dropped the
mask suddenly, and said with a good-humoured laugh: "By Jove, Granice you'll write a successful
play yet. The way you've worked this all out is a marvel."

Granice swung about furiously--that last sneer about the play inflamed him. Was all the world
in a conspiracy to deride his failure?

"I did it, I did it," he muttered sullenly, his rage spending itself against the impenetrable
surface of the other's mockery; and Ascham answered with a smile: "Ever read any of those books
on hallucination? I've got a fairly good medico-legal library. I could send you one or two
if you like..."

Left alone, Granice cowered down in the chair before his writing-table. He understood that
Ascham thought him off his head.

"Good God--what if they all think me crazy?"

The horror of it broke out over him in a cold sweat--he sat there and shook, his eyes hidden
in his icy hands. But gradually, as he began to rehearse his story for the thousandth time,
he saw again how incontrovertible it was, and felt sure that any criminal lawyer would believe him.

"That's the trouble--Ascham's not a criminal lawyer. And then he's a friend. What a fool I
was to talk to a friend! Even if he did believe me, he'd never let me see it--his instinct
would be to cover the whole thing up... But in that case--if he did believe me--he might think
it a kindness to get me shut up in an asylum..." Granice began to tremble again. "Good heaven!
If he should bring in an expert--one of those damned alienists! Ascham and Pettilow can do
anything--their word always goes. If Ascham drops a hint that I'd better be shut up, I'll be
in a strait-jacket by to-morrow! And he'd do it from the kindest motives--be quite right to
do it if he thinks I'm a murderer!"

The vision froze him to his chair. He pressed his fists to his bursting temples and tried to
think. For the first time he hoped that Ascham had not believed his story.

"But he did--he did! I can see it now--I noticed what a queer eye he cocked at me. Good God,
what shall I do--what shall I do?"

He started up and looked at the clock. Half-past one. What if Ascham should think the case
urgent, rout out an alienist, and come back with him? Granice jumped to his feet, and his sudden
gesture brushed the morning paper from the table. Mechanically he stooped to pick it up, and
the movement started a new train of association.

He sat down again, and reached for the telephone book in the rack by his chair.

"Give me three-o-ten ... yes."

The new idea in his mind had revived his flagging energy. He would act--act at once. It was
only by thus planning ahead, committing himself to some unavoidable line of conduct, that he
could pull himself through the meaningless days. Each time he reached a fresh decision it was
like coming out of a foggy weltering sea into a calm harbour with lights. One of the queerest
phases of his long agony was the intense relief produced by these momentary lulls.

"That the office of the Investigator? Yes? Give me Mr. Denver, please... Hallo, Denver... Yes,
Hubert Granice. ... Just caught you? Going straight home? Can I come and see you ... yes, now
... have a talk? It's rather urgent ... yes, might give you some first-rate 'copy.' ... All
right!" He hung up the receiver with a laugh. It had been a happy thought to call up the editor
of the Investigator--Robert Denver was the very man he needed...

Granice put out the lights in the library--it was odd how the automatic gestures persisted!--went
into the hall, put on his hat and overcoat, and let himself out of the flat. In the hall, a
sleepy elevator boy blinked at him and then dropped his head on his folded arms. Granice passed
out into the street. At the corner of Fifth Avenue he hailed a crawling cab, and called out
an up-town address. The long thoroughfare stretched before him, dim and deserted, like an ancient
avenue of tombs. But from Denver's house a friendly beam fell on the pavement; and as Granice
sprang from his cab the editor's electric turned the corner.

The two men grasped hands, and Denver, feeling for his latch-key, ushered Granice into the
brightly-lit hall.

"Disturb me? Not a bit. You might have, at ten to-morrow morning ... but this is my liveliest
hour ... you know my habits of old."

Granice had known Robert Denver for fifteen years--watched his rise through all the stages
of journalism to the Olympian pinnacle of the Investigator's editorial office. In the thick-set
man with grizzling hair there were few traces left of the hungry-eyed young reporter who, on
his way home in the small hours, used to "bob in" on Granice, while the latter sat grinding
at his plays. Denver had to pass Granice's flat on the way to his own, and it became a habit,
if he saw a light in the window, and Granice's shadow against the blind, to go in, smoke a
pipe, and discuss the universe.

"Well--this is like old times--a good old habit reversed." The editor smote his visitor genially
on the shoulder. "Reminds me of the nights when I used to rout you out... How's the play, by
the way? There is a play, I suppose? It's as safe to ask you that as to say to some men: 'How's
the baby?'"

Denver laughed good-naturedly, and Granice thought how thick and heavy he had grown. It was
evident, even to Granice's tortured nerves, that the words had not been uttered in malice--and
the fact gave him a new measure of his insignificance. Denver did not even know that he had
been a failure! The fact hurt more than Ascham's irony.

"Come in--come in." The editor led the way into a small cheerful room, where there were cigars
and decanters. He pushed an arm-chair toward his visitor, and dropped into another with a comfortable
groan.

"Now, then--help yourself. And let's hear all about it."

He beamed at Granice over his pipe-bowl, and the latter, lighting his cigar, said to himself:
"Success makes men comfortable, but it makes them stupid."

Then he turned, and began: "Denver, I want to tell you--"

The clock ticked rhythmically on the mantel-piece. The room was gradually filled with drifting
blue layers of smoke, and through them the editor's face came and went like the moon through
a moving sky. Once the hour struck--then the rhythmical ticking began again. The atmosphere
grew denser and heavier, and beads of perspiration began to roll from Granice's forehead.

"Do you mind if I open the window?"

"No. It is stuffy in here. Wait--I'll do it myself." Denver pushed down the upper sash, and
returned to his chair. "Well--go on," he said, filling another pipe. His composure exasperated
Granice.

"There's no use in my going on if you don't believe me."

The editor remained unmoved. "Who says I don't believe you? And how can I tell till you've
finished?"

Granice went on, ashamed of his outburst. "It was simple enough, as you'll see. From the day
the old man said to me, 'Those Italians would murder you for a quarter,' I dropped everything
and just worked at my scheme. It struck me at once that I must find a way of getting to Wrenfield
and back in a night--and that led to the idea of a motor. A motor--that never occurred to you?
You wonder where I got the money, I suppose. Well, I had a thousand or so put by, and I nosed
around till I found what I wanted--a second-hand racer. I knew how to drive a car, and I tried
the thing and found it was all right. Times were bad, and I bought it for my price, and stored
it away. Where? Why, in one of those no-questions-asked garages where they keep motors that
are not for family use. I had a lively cousin who had put me up to that dodge, and I looked
about till I found a queer hole where they took in my car like a baby in a foundling asylum...
Then I practiced running to Wrenfield and back in a night. I knew the way pretty well, for
I'd done it often with the same lively cousin--and in the small hours, too. The distance is
over ninety miles, and on the third trial I did it under two hours. But my arms were so lame
that I could hardly get dressed the next morning...

"Well, then came the report about the Italian's threats, and I saw I must act at once... I
meant to break into the old man's room, shoot him, and get away again. It was a big risk, but
I thought I could manage it. Then we heard that he was ill--that there'd been a consultation.
Perhaps the fates were going to do it for me! Good Lord, if that could only be! ..."

Granice stopped and wiped his forehead: the open window did not seem to have cooled the room.

"Then came word that he was better; and the day after, when I came up from my office, I found
Kate laughing over the news that he was to try a bit of melon. The house-keeper had just telephoned
her--all Wrenfield was in a flutter. The doctor himself had picked out the melon, one of the
little French ones that are hardly bigger than a large tomato--and the patient was to eat it
at his breakfast the next morning.

"In a flash I saw my chance. It was a bare chance, no more. But I knew the ways of the house--I
was sure the melon would be brought in over night and put in the pantry ice-box. If there were
only one melon in the ice-box I could be fairly sure it was the one I wanted. Melons didn't
lie around loose in that house--every one was known, numbered, catalogued. The old man was
beset by the dread that the servants would eat them, and he took a hundred mean precautions
to prevent it. Yes, I felt pretty sure of my melon ... and poisoning was much safer than shooting.
It would have been the devil and all to get into the old man's bedroom without his rousing
the house; but I ought to be able to break into the pantry without much trouble.

"It was a cloudy night, too--everything served me. I dined quietly, and sat down at my desk.
Kate had one of her usual headaches, and went to bed early. As soon as she was gone I slipped
out. I had got together a sort of disguise--red beard and queer-looking ulster. I shoved them
into a bag, and went round to the garage. There was no one there but a half-drunken machinist
whom I'd never seen before. That served me, too. They were always changing machinists, and
this new fellow didn't even bother to ask if the car belonged to me. It was a very easy-going
place...

"Well, I jumped in, ran up Broadway, and let the car go as soon as I was out of Harlem. Dark
as it was, I could trust myself to strike a sharp pace. In the shadow of a wood I stopped a
second and got into the beard and ulster. Then away again--it was just eleven-thirty when I
got to Wrenfield.

"I left the car in a dark lane behind the Lenman place, and slipped through the kitchen-garden.
The melon-houses winked at me through the dark--I remember thinking that they knew what I wanted
to know. ... By the stable a dog came out growling--but he nosed me out, jumped on me, and
went back... The house was as dark as the grave. I knew everybody went to bed by ten. But there
might be a prowling servant--the kitchen-maid might have come down to let in her Italian. I
had to risk that, of course. I crept around by the back door and hid in the shrubbery. Then
I listened. It was all as silent as death. I crossed over to the house, pried open the pantry
window and climbed in. I had a little electric lamp in my pocket, and shielding it with my
cap I groped my way to the ice-box, opened it--and there was the little French melon ... only one.

"I stopped to listen--I was quite cool. Then I pulled out my bottle of stuff and my syringe,
and gave each section of the melon a hypodermic. It was all done inside of three minutes--at
ten minutes to twelve I was back in the car. I got out of the lane as quietly as I could, struck
a back road that skirted the village, and let the car out as soon as I was beyond the last
houses. I only stopped once on the way in, to drop the beard and ulster into a pond. I had
a big stone ready to weight them with and they went down plump, like a dead body--and at two
o'clock I was back at my desk."

Granice stopped speaking and looked across the smoke-fumes at his listener; but Denver's face
remained inscrutable.

At length he said: "Why did you want to tell me this?"

The question startled Granice. He was about to explain, as he had explained to Ascham; but
suddenly it occurred to him that if his motive had not seemed convincing to the lawyer it would
carry much less weight with Denver. Both were successful men, and success does not understand
the subtle agony of failure. Granice cast about for another reason.

"Why, I--the thing haunts me ... remorse, I suppose you'd call it..."

Denver struck the ashes from his empty pipe.

"Remorse? Bosh!" he said energetically.

Granice's heart sank. "You don't believe in--remorse?"

"Not an atom: in the man of action. The mere fact of your talking of remorse proves to me that
you're not the man to have planned and put through such a job."

Granice groaned. "Well--I lied to you about remorse. I've never felt any."

Denver's lips tightened sceptically about his freshly-filled pipe. "What was your motive, then?
You must have had one."

"I'll tell you--" And Granice began again to rehearse the story of his failure, of his loathing
for life. "Don't say you don't believe me this time ... that this isn't a real reason!" he
stammered out piteously as he ended.

Denver meditated. "No, I won't say that. I've seen too many queer things. There's always a
reason for wanting to get out of life--the wonder is that we find so many for staying in!"

Granice's heart grew light. "Then you do believe me?" he faltered.

"Believe that you're sick of the job? Yes. And that you haven't the nerve to pull the trigger?
Oh, yes--that's easy enough, too. But all that doesn't make you a murderer--though I don't
say it proves you could never have been one."

"I have been one, Denver--I swear to you."

"Perhaps." He meditated. "Just tell me one or two things."

"Oh, go ahead. You won't stump me!" Granice heard himself say with a laugh.

"Well--how did you make all those trial trips without exciting your sister's curiosity? I knew
your night habits pretty well at that time, remember. You were very seldom out late. Didn't
the change in your ways surprise her?"

"No; because she was away at the time. She went to pay several visits in the country soon after
we came back from Wrenfield, and was only in town for a night or two before--before I did the job."

"And that night she went to bed early with a headache?"

"Yes--blinding. She didn't know anything when she had that kind. And her room was at the back
of the flat."

Denver again meditated. "And when you got back--she didn't hear you? You got in without her
knowing it?"

"Yes. I went straight to my work--took it up at the word where I'd left off--why, Denver, don't
you remember?" Granice suddenly, passionately interjected.

"Remember--?"

"Yes; how you found me--when you looked in that morning, between two and three ... your usual
hour ...?"

"Yes," the editor nodded.

Granice gave a short laugh. "In my old coat--with my pipe: looked as if I'd been working all
night, didn't I? Well, I hadn't been in my chair ten minutes!"

Denver uncrossed his legs and then crossed them again. "I didn't know whether you remembered that."

"What?"

"My coming in that particular night--or morning."

Granice swung round in his chair. "Why, man alive! That's why I'm here now. Because it was
you who spoke for me at the inquest, when they looked round to see what all the old man's heirs
had been doing that night--you who testified to having dropped in and found me at my desk as
usual. ... I thought that would appeal to your journalistic sense if nothing else would!"

Denver smiled. "Oh, my journalistic sense is still susceptible enough--and the idea's picturesque,
I grant you: asking the man who proved your alibi to establish your guilt."

"That's it--that's it!" Granice's laugh had a ring of triumph.

"Well, but how about the other chap's testimony--I mean that young doctor: what was his name?
Ned Ranney. Don't you remember my testifying that I'd met him at the elevated station, and
told him I was on my way to smoke a pipe with you, and his saying: 'All right; you'll find
him in. I passed the house two hours ago, and saw his shadow against the blind, as usual.'
And the lady with the toothache in the flat across the way: she corroborated his statement,
you remember."

"Yes; I remember."

Well, then?"

"Simple enough. Before starting I rigged up a kind of mannikin with old coats and a cushion--something
to cast a shadow on the blind. All you fellows were used to seeing my shadow there in the small
hours--I counted on that, and knew you'd take any vague outline as mine."

"Simple enough, as you say. But the woman with the toothache saw the shadow move--you remember
she said she saw you sink forward, as if you'd fallen asleep."

"Yes; and she was right. It did move. I suppose some extra-heavy dray must have jolted by the
flimsy building--at any rate, something gave my mannikin a jar, and when I came back he had
sunk forward, half over the table."

There was a long silence between the two men. Granice, with a throbbing heart, watched Denver
refill his pipe. The editor, at any rate, did not sneer and flout him. After all, journalism
gave a deeper insight than the law into the fantastic possibilities of life, prepared one better
to allow for the incalculableness of human impulses.

"Well?" Granice faltered out.

Denver stood up with a shrug. "Look here, man--what's wrong with you? Make a clean breast of
it! Nerves gone to smash? I'd like to take you to see a chap I know--an ex-prize-fighter--who's
a wonder at pulling fellows in your state out of their hole--"

"Oh, oh--" Granice broke in. He stood up also, and the two men eyed each other. "You don't
believe me, then?"

"This yarn--how can I? There wasn't a flaw in your alibi."

"But haven't I filled it full of them now?"

Denver shook his head. "I might think so if I hadn't happened to know that you wanted to. There's
the hitch, don't you see?"

Granice groaned. "No, I didn't. You mean my wanting to be found guilty--?"

"Of course! If somebody else had accused you, the story might have been worth looking into.
As it is, a child could have invented it. It doesn't do much credit to your ingenuity."

Granice turned sullenly toward the door. What was the use of arguing? But on the threshold
a sudden impulse drew him back. "Look here, Denver--I daresay you're right. But will you do
just one thing to prove it? Put my statement in the Investigator, just as I've made it. Ridicule
it as much as you like. Only give the other fellows a chance at it--men who don't know anything
about me. Set them talking and looking about. I don't care a damn whether you believe me--what
I want is to convince the Grand Jury! I oughtn't to have come to a man who knows me--your cursed
incredulity is infectious. I don't put my case well, because I know in advance it's discredited,
and I almost end by not believing it myself. That's why I can't convince you. It's a vicious
circle." He laid a hand on Denver's arm. "Send a stenographer, and put my statement in the paper."

But Denver did not warm to the idea. "My dear fellow, you seem to forget that all the evidence
was pretty thoroughly sifted at the time, every possible clue followed up. The public would
have been ready enough then to believe that you murdered old Lenman--you or anybody else. All
they wanted was a murderer--the most improbable would have served. But your alibi was too confoundedly
complete. And nothing you've told me has shaken it." Denver laid his cool hand over the other's
burning fingers. "Look here, old fellow, go home and work up a better case--then come in and
submit it to the Investigator."

IV

THE perspiration was rolling off Granice's forehead. Every few minutes he had to draw out his
handkerchief and wipe the moisture from his haggard face.

For an hour and a half he had been talking steadily, putting his case to the District Attorney.
Luckily he had a speaking acquaintance with Allonby, and had obtained, without much difficulty,
a private audience on the very day after his talk with Robert Denver. In the interval between
he had hurried home, got out of his evening clothes, and gone forth again at once into the
dreary dawn. His fear of Ascham and the alienist made it impossible for him to remain in his
rooms. And it seemed to him that the only way of averting that hideous peril was by establishing,
in some sane impartial mind, the proof of his guilt. Even if he had not been so incurably sick
of life, the electric chair seemed now the only alternative to the strait-jacket.

As he paused to wipe his forehead he saw the District Attorney glance at his watch. The gesture
was significant, and Granice lifted an appealing hand. "I don't expect you to believe me now--but
can't you put me under arrest, and have the thing looked into?"

Allonby smiled faintly under his heavy grayish moustache. He had a ruddy face, full and jovial,
in which his keen professional eyes seemed to keep watch over impulses not strictly professional.

"Well, I don't know that we need lock you up just yet. But of course I'm bound to look into
your statement--"

Granice rose with an exquisite sense of relief. Surely Allonby wouldn't have said that if he
hadn't believed him!

"That's all right. Then I needn't detain you. I can be found at any time at my apartment."
He gave the address.

The District Attorney smiled again, more openly. "What do you say to leaving it for an hour
or two this evening? I'm giving a little supper at Rector's--quiet, little affair, you understand:
just Miss Melrose--I think you know her--and a friend or two; and if you'll join us..."

Granice stumbled out of the office without knowing what reply he had made.

He waited for four days--four days of concentrated horror. During the first twenty-four hours
the fear of Ascham's alienist dogged him; and as that subsided, it was replaced by the exasperating
sense that his avowal had made no impression on the District Attorney. Evidently, if he had
been going to look into the case, Allonby would have been heard from before now. ... And that
mocking invitation to supper showed clearly enough how little the story had impressed him!

Granice was overcome by the futility of any farther attempt to inculpate himself. He was chained
to life--a "prisoner of consciousness." Where was it he had read the phrase? Well, he was learning
what it meant. In the glaring night-hours, when his brain seemed ablaze, he was visited by
a sense of his fixed identity, of his irreducible, inexpugnable selfness, keener, more insidious,
more unescapable, than any sensation he had ever known. He had not guessed that the mind was
capable of such intricacies of self-realization, of penetrating so deep into its own dark wind-
ings. Often he woke from his brief snatches of sleep with the feeling that something material
was clinging to him, was on his hands and face, and in his throat--and as his brain cleared
he understood that it was the sense of his own loathed personality that stuck to him like some
thick viscous substance.

Then, in the first morning hours, he would rise and look out of his window at the awakening
activities of the street--at the street-cleaners, the ash-cart drivers, and the other dingy
workers flitting hurriedly by through the sallow winter light. Oh, to be one of them--any of
them--to take his chance in any of their skins! They were the toilers--the men whose lot was
pitied--the victims wept over and ranted about by altruists and economists; and how gladly
he would have taken up the load of any one of them, if only he might have shaken off his own!
But, no--the iron circle of consciousness held them too: each one was hand-cuffed to his own
hideous ego. Why wish to be any one man rather than another? The only absolute good was not
to be ... And Flint, coming in to draw his bath, would ask if he preferred his eggs scrambled
or poached that morning?

On the fifth day he wrote a long urgent letter to Allonby; and for the succeeding two days
he had the occupation of waiting for an answer. He hardly stirred from his rooms, in his fear
of missing the letter by a moment; but would the District Attorney write, or send a representative:
a policeman, a "secret agent," or some other mysterious emissary of the law?

On the third morning Flint, stepping softly--as if, confound it! his master were ill--entered
the library where Granice sat behind an unread newspaper, and proferred a card on a tray.

Granice read the name--J. B. Hewson--and underneath, in pencil, "From the District Attorney's
office." He started up with a thumping heart, and signed an assent to the servant.

Mr. Hewson was a slight sallow nondescript man of about fifty--the kind of man of whom one
is sure to see a specimen in any crowd. "Just the type of the successful detective," Granice
reflected as he shook hands with his visitor.

And it was in that character that Mr. Hewson briefly introduced himself. He had been sent by
the District Attorney to have "a quiet talk" with Mr. Granice--to ask him to repeat the statement
he had made about the Lenman murder.

His manner was so quiet, so reasonable and receptive, that Granice's self-confidence returned.
Here was a sensible man--a man who knew his business--it would be easy enough to make him see
through that ridiculous alibi! Granice offered Mr. Hewson a cigar, and lighting one himself--to
prove his coolness--began again to tell his story.

He was conscious, as he proceeded, of telling it better than ever before. Practice helped,
no doubt; and his listener's detached, impartial attitude helped still more. He could see that
Hewson, at least, had not decided in advance to disbelieve him, and the sense of being trusted
made him more lucid and more consecutive. Yes, this time his words would certainly carry conviction...

V

DESPAIRINGLY, Granice gazed up and down the shabby street. Beside him stood a young man with
bright prominent eyes, a smooth but not too smoothly-shaven face, and an Irish smile. The young
man's nimble glance followed Granice's.

"Sure of the number, are you?" he asked briskly.

"Oh, yes--it was 104."

"Well, then, the new building has swallowed it up--that's certain."

He tilted his head back and surveyed the half-finished front of a brick and limestone flat-house
that reared its flimsy elegance above a row of tottering tenements and stables.

"Dead sure?" he repeated.

"Yes," said Granice, discouraged. "And even if I hadn't been, I know the garage was just opposite
Leffler's over there." He pointed across the street to a tumble-down stable with a blotched
sign on which the words "Livery and Boarding" were still faintly discernible.

The young man dashed across to the opposite pavement. "Well, that's something--may get a clue
there. Leffler's--same name there, anyhow. You remember that name?"

"Yes--distinctly."

Granice had felt a return of confidence since he had enlisted the interest of the Explorer's
"smartest" reporter. If there were moments when he hardly believed his own story, there were
others when it seemed impossible that every one should not believe it; and young Peter McCarren,
peering, listening, questioning, jotting down notes, inspired him with an exquisite sense of
security. McCarren had fastened on the case at once, "like a leech," as he phrased it--jumped
at it, thrilled to it, and settled down to "draw the last drop of fact from it, and had not
let go till he had." No one else had treated Granice in that way--even Allonby's detective
had not taken a single note. And though a week had elapsed since the visit of that authorized
official, nothing had been heard from the District Attorney's office: Allonby had apparently
dropped the matter again. But McCarren wasn't going to drop it--not he! He positively hung
on Granice's footsteps. They had spent the greater part of the previous day together, and now
they were off again, running down clues.

But at Leffler's they got none, after all. Leffler's was no longer a stable. It was condemned
to demolition, and in the respite between sentence and execution it had become a vague place
of storage, a hospital for broken-down carriages and carts, presided over by a blear-eyed old
woman who knew nothing of Flood's garage across the way--did not even remember what had stood
there before the new flat-house began to rise.

"Well--we may run Leffler down somewhere; I've seen harder jobs done," said McCarren, cheerfully
noting down the name.

As they walked back toward Sixth Avenue he added, in a less sanguine tone: "I'd undertake now
to put the thing through if you could only put me on the track of that cyanide."

Granice's heart sank. Yes--there was the weak spot; he had felt it from the first! But he still
hoped to convince McCarren that his case was strong enough without it; and he urged the reporter
to come back to his rooms and sum up the facts with him again.

"Sorry, Mr. Granice, but I'm due at the office now. Besides, it'd be no use till I get some
fresh stuff to work on. Suppose I call you up tomorrow or next day?"

He plunged into a trolley and left Granice gazing desolately after him.

Two days later he reappeared at the apartment, a shade less jaunty in demeanor.

"Well, Mr. Granice, the stars in their courses are against you, as the bard says. Can't get
a trace of Flood, or of Leffler either. And you say you bought the motor through Flood, and
sold it through him, too?"

"Yes," said Granice wearily.

"Who bought it, do you know?"

Granice wrinkled his brows. "Why, Flood--yes, Flood himself. I sold it back to him three months
later."

"Flood? The devil! And I've ransacked the town for Flood. That kind of business disappears
as if the earth had swallowed it."

Granice, discouraged, kept silence.

"That brings us back to the poison," McCarren continued, his note-book out. "Just go over that
again, will you?"

And Granice went over it again. It had all been so simple at the time--and he had been so clever
in covering up his traces! As soon as he decided on poison he looked about for an acquaintance
who manufactured chemicals; and there was Jim Dawes, a Harvard classmate, in the dyeing business--just
the man. But at the last moment it occurred to him that suspicion might turn toward so obvious
an opportunity, and he decided on a more tortuous course. Another friend, Carrick Venn, a student
of medicine whom irremediable ill-health had kept from the practice of his profession, amused
his leisure with experiments in physics, for the exercise of which he had set up a simple laboratory.
Granice had the habit of dropping in to smoke a cigar with him on Sunday afternoons, and the
friends generally sat in Venn's work-shop, at the back of the old family house in Stuyvesant
Square. Off this work-shop was the cupboard of supplies, with its row of deadly bottles. Carrick
Venn was an original, a man of restless curious tastes, and his place, on a Sunday, was often
full of visitors: a cheerful crowd of journalists, scribblers, painters, experimenters in divers
forms of expression. Coming and going among so many, it was easy enough to pass unperceived;
and one afternoon Granice, arriving before Venn had returned home, found himself alone in the
work-shop, and quickly slipping into the cupboard, transferred the drug to his pocket.

But that had happened ten years ago; and Venn, poor fellow, was long since dead of his dragging
ailment. His old father was dead, too, the house in Stuyvesant Square had been turned into
a boarding-house, and the shifting life of New York had passed its rapid sponge over every
trace of their obscure little history. Even the optimistic McCarren seemed to acknowledge the
hopelessness of seeking for proof in that direction.

"And there's the third door slammed in our faces." He shut his note-book, and throwing back
his head, rested his bright inquisitive eyes on Granice's furrowed face.

"Look here, Mr. Granice--you see the weak spot, don't you?"

The other made a despairing motion. "I see so many!"

"Yes: but the one that weakens all the others. Why the deuce do you want this thing known?
Why do you want to put your head into the noose?"

Granice looked at him hopelessly, trying to take the measure of his quick light irreverent
mind. No one so full of a cheerful animal life would believe in the craving for death as a
sufficient motive; and Granice racked his brain for one more convincing. But suddenly he saw
the reporter's face soften, and melt to a naive sentimentalism.

"Mr. Granice--has the memory of it always haunted you?"

Granice stared a moment, and then leapt at the opening. "That's it--the memory of it ... always
..."

McCarren nodded vehemently. "Dogged your steps, eh? Wouldn't let you sleep? The time came when
you had to make a clean breast of it?"

"I had to. Can't you understand?"

The reporter struck his fist on the table. "God, sir! I don't suppose there's a human being
with a drop of warm blood in him that can't picture the deadly horrors of remorse--"

The Celtic imagination was aflame, and Granice mutely thanked him for the word. What neither
Ascham nor Denver would accept as a conceivable motive the Irish reporter seized on as the
most adequate; and, as he said, once one could find a convincing motive, the difficulties of
the case became so many incentives to effort.

"Remorse--remorse," he repeated, rolling the word under his tongue with an accent that was
a clue to the psychology of the popular drama; and Granice, perversely, said to himself: "If
I could only have struck that note I should have been running in six theatres at once."

He saw that from that moment McCarren's professional zeal would be fanned by emotional curiosity;
and he profited by the fact to propose that they should dine together, and go on afterward
to some music-hall or theatre. It was becoming necessary to Granice to feel himself an object
of pre-occupation, to find himself in another mind. He took a kind of gray penumbral pleasure
in riveting McCarren's attention on his case; and to feign the grimaces of moral anguish became
a passionately engrossing game. He had not entered a theatre for months; but he sat out the
meaningless performance in rigid tolerance, sustained by the sense of the reporter's observation.

Between the acts, McCarren amused him with anecdotes about the audience: he knew every one
by sight, and could lift the curtain from every physiognomy. Granice listened indulgently.
He had lost all interest in his kind, but he knew that he was himself the real centre of McCarren's
attention, and that every word the latter spoke had an indirect bearing on his own problem.

"See that fellow over there--the little dried-up man in the third row, pulling his moustache?
His memoirs would be worth publishing," McCarren said suddenly in the last entr'acte.

Granice, following his glance, recognized the detective from Allonby's office. For a moment
he had the thrilling sense that he was being shadowed.

"Caesar, if he could talk--!" McCarren continued. "Know who he is, of course? Dr. John B. Stell,
the biggest alienist in the country--"

Granice, with a start, bent again between the heads in front of him. "That man--the fourth
from the aisle? You're mistaken. That's not Dr. Stell."

McCarren laughed. "Well, I guess I've been in court enough to know Stell when I see him. He
testifies in nearly all the big cases where they plead insanity."

A cold shiver ran down Granice's spine, but he repeated obstinately: "That's not Dr. Stell."

"Not Stell? Why, man, I know him. Look--here he comes. If it isn't Stell, he won't speak to me."

The little dried-up man was moving slowly up the aisle. As he neared McCarren he made a slight
gesture of recognition.

"How'do, Doctor Stell? Pretty slim show, ain't it?" the reporter cheerfully flung out at him.
And Mr. J. B. Hewson, with a nod of amicable assent, passed on.

Granice sat benumbed. He knew he had not been mistaken--the man who had just passed was the
same man whom Allonby had sent to see him: a physician disguised as a detective. Allonby, then,
had thought him insane, like the others--had regarded his confession as the maundering of a
maniac. The discovery froze Granice with horror--he seemed to see the mad-house gaping for him.

"Isn't there a man a good deal like him--a detective named J. B. Hewson?"

But he knew in advance what McCarren's answer would be. "Hewson? J. B. Hewson? Never heard
of him. But that was J. B. Stell fast enough--I guess he can be trusted to know himself, and
you saw he answered to his name."

VI

SOME days passed before Granice could obtain a word with the District Attorney: he began to
think that Allonby avoided him.

But when they were face to face Allonby's jovial countenance showed no sign of embarrassment.
He waved his visitor to a chair, and leaned across his desk with the encouraging smile of a
consulting physician.

Granice broke out at once: "That detective you sent me the other day--"

Allonby raised a deprecating hand.

"--I know: it was Stell the alienist. Why did you do that, Allonby?"

The other's face did not lose its composure. "Because I looked up your story first--and there's
nothing in it."

"Nothing in it?" Granice furiously interposed.

"Absolutely nothing. If there is, why the deuce don't you bring me proofs? I know you've been
talking to Peter Ascham, and to Denver, and to that little ferret McCarren of the Explorer.
Have any of them been able to make out a case for you? No. Well, what am I to do?"

Granice's lips began to tremble. "Why did you play me that trick?"

"About Stell? I had to, my dear fellow: it's part of my business. Stell is a detective, if
you come to that--every doctor is."

The trembling of Granice's lips increased, communicating itself in a long quiver to his facial
muscles. He forced a laugh through his dry throat. "Well--and what did he detect?"

"In you? Oh, he thinks it's overwork--overwork and too much smoking. If you look in on him
some day at his office he'll show you the record of hundreds of cases like yours, and advise
you what treatment to follow. It's one of the commonest forms of hallucination. Have a cigar,
all the same."

"But, Allonby, I killed that man!"

The District Attorney's large hand, outstretched on his desk, had an almost imperceptible gesture,
and a moment later, as if an answer to the call of an electric bell, a clerk looked in from
the outer office.

"Sorry, my dear fellow--lot of people waiting. Drop in on Stell some morning," Allonby said,
shaking hands.

McCarren had to own himself beaten: there was absolutely no flaw in the alibi. And since his
duty to his journal obviously forbade his wasting time on insoluble mysteries, he ceased to
frequent Granice, who dropped back into a deeper isolation. For a day or two after his visit
to Allonby he continued to live in dread of Dr. Stell. Why might not Allonby have deceived
him as to the alienist's diagnosis? What if he were really being shadowed, not by a police
agent but by a mad-doctor? To have the truth out, he suddenly determined to call on Dr. Stell.

The physician received him kindly, and reverted without embarrassment to the conditions of
their previous meeting. "We have to do that occasionally, Mr. Granice; it's one of our methods.
And you had given Allonby a fright."

Granice was silent. He would have liked to reaffirm his guilt, to produce the fresh arguments
which had occurred to him since his last talk with the physician; but he feared his eagerness
might be taken for a symptom of derangement, and he affected to smile away Dr. Stell's allusion.

"You think, then, it's a case of brain-fag--nothing more?"

"Nothing more. And I should advise you to knock off tobacco. You smoke a good deal, don't you?"

He developed his treatment, recommending massage, gymnastics, travel, or any form of diversion
that did not--that in short--

Granice interrupted him impatiently. "Oh, I loathe all that--and I'm sick of travelling."

"H'm. Then some larger interest--politics, reform, philanthropy? Something to take you out
of yourself."

"Yes. I understand," said Granice wearily.

"Above all, don't lose heart. I see hundreds of cases like yours," the doctor added cheerfully
from the threshold.

On the doorstep Granice stood still and laughed. Hundreds of cases like his--the case of a
man who had committed a murder, who confessed his guilt, and whom no one would believe! Why,
there had never been a case like it in the world. What a good figure Stell would have made
in a play: the great alienist who couldn't read a man's mind any better than that!

Granice saw huge comic opportunities in the type.

But as he walked away, his fears dispelled, the sense of listlessness returned on him. For
the first time since his avowal to Peter Ascham he found himself without an occupation, and
understood that he had been carried through the past weeks only by the necessity of constant
action. Now his life had once more become a stagnant backwater, and as he stood on the street
corner watching the tides of traffic sweep by, he asked himself despairingly how much longer
he could endure to float about in the sluggish circle of his consciousness.

The thought of self-destruction recurred to him; but again his flesh recoiled. He yearned for
death from other hands, but he could never take it from his own. And, aside from his insuperable
physical reluctance, another motive restrained him. He was possessed by the dogged desire to
establish the truth of his story. He refused to be swept aside as an irresponsible dreamer--even
if he had to kill himself in the end, he would not do so before proving to society that he
had deserved death from it.

He began to write long letters to the papers; but after the first had been published and commented
on, public curiosity was quelled by a brief statement from the District Attorney's office,
and the rest of his communications remained unprinted. Ascham came to see him, and begged him
to travel. Robert Denver dropped in, and tried to joke him out of his delusion; till Granice,
mistrustful of their motives, began to dread the reappearance of Dr. Stell, and set a guard
on his lips. But the words he kept back engendered others and still others in his brain. His
inner self became a humming factory of arguments, and he spent long hours reciting and writing
down elaborate statements of his crime, which he constantly retouched and developed. Then gradually
his activity languished under the lack of an audience, the sense of being buried beneath deepening
drifts of indifference. In a passion of resentment he swore that he would prove himself a murderer,
even if he had to commit another crime to do it; and for a sleepless night or two the thought
flamed red on his darkness. But daylight dispelled it. The determining impulse was lacking
and he hated too promiscuously to choose his victim... So he was thrown back on the unavailing
struggle to impose the truth of his story. As fast as one channel closed on him he tried to
pierce another through the sliding sands of incredulity. But every issue seemed blocked, and
the whole human race leagued together to cheat one man of the right to die.

Thus viewed, the situation became so monstrous that he lost his last shred of self-restraint
in contemplating it. What if he were really the victim of some mocking experiment, the centre
of a ring of holiday-makers jeering at a poor creature in its blind dashes against the solid
walls of consciousness? But, no--men were not so uniformly cruel: there were flaws in the close
surface of their indifference, cracks of weakness and pity here and there...

Granice began to think that his mistake lay in having appealed to persons more or less familiar
with his past, and to whom the visible conformities of his life seemed a final disproof of
its one fierce secret deviation. The general tendency was to take for the whole of life the
slit seen between the blinders of habit: and in his walk down that narrow vista Granice cut
a correct enough figure. To a vision free to follow his whole orbit his story would be more
intelligible: it would be easier to convince a chance idler in the street than the trained
intelligence hampered by a sense of his antecedents. This idea shot up in him with the tropic
luxuriance of each new seed of thought, and he began to walk the streets, and to frequent out-of-the-way
chop-houses and bars in his search for the impartial stranger to whom he should disclose himself.

At first every face looked encouragement; but at the crucial moment he always held back. So
much was at stake, and it was so essential that his first choice should be decisive. He dreaded
stupidity, timidity, intolerance. The imaginative eye, the furrowed brow, were what he sought.
He must reveal himself only to a heart versed in the tortuous motions of the human will; and
he began to hate the dull benevolence of the average face. Once or twice, obscurely, allusively,
he made a beginning--once sitting down at a man's side in a basement chop-house, another day
approaching a lounger on an east-side wharf. But in both cases the premonition of failure checked
him on the brink of avowal. His dread of being taken for a man in the clutch of a fixed idea
gave him an unnatural keenness in reading the expression of his interlocutors, and he had provided
himself in advance with a series of verbal alternatives, trap-doors of evasion from the first
dart of ridicule or suspicion.

He passed the greater part of the day in the streets, coming home at irregular hours, dreading
the silence and orderliness of his apartment, and the critical scrutiny of Flint. His real
life was spent in a world so remote from this familiar setting that he sometimes had the mysterious
sense of a living metempsychosis, a furtive passage from one identity to another--yet the other
as unescapably himself!

One humiliation he was spared: the desire to live never revived in him. Not for a moment was
he tempted to a shabby pact with existing conditions. He wanted to die, wanted it with the
fixed unwavering desire which alone attains its end. And still the end eluded him! It would
not always, of course--he had full faith in the dark star of his destiny. And he could prove
it best by repeating his story, persistently and indefatigably, pouring it into indifferent
ears, hammering it into dull brains, till at last it kindled a spark, and some one of the careless
millions paused, listened, believed...

It was a mild March day, and he had been loitering on the west-side docks, looking at faces.
He was becoming an expert in physiognomies: his eagerness no longer made rash darts and awkward
recoils. He knew now the face he needed, as clearly as if it had come to him in a vision; and
not till he found it would he speak. As he walked eastward through the shabby reeking streets
he had a premonition that he should find it that morning. Perhaps it was the promise of spring
in the air--certainly he felt calmer than for many days...

He turned into Washington Square, struck across it obliquely, and walked up University Place.
Its heterogeneous passers always allured him--they were less hurried than in Broadway, less
enclosed and classified than in Fifth Avenue. He walked slowly, watching for his face.

At Union Square he felt a sudden relapse into discouragement, like a votary who has watched
too long for a sign from the altar. Perhaps, after all, he should never find his face... The
air was languid, and he felt tired. He walked between the bald grass-plots and the twisted
trees, making for an empty seat. Presently he passed a bench on which a girl sat alone, and
something as definite as the twitch of a cord made him stop before her. He had never dreamed
of telling his story to a girl, had hardly looked at the women's faces as they passed. His
case was man's work: how could a woman help him? But this girl's face was extraordinary--quiet
and wide as a clear evening sky. It suggested a hundred images of space, distance, mystery,
like ships he had seen, as a boy, quietly berthed by a familiar wharf, but with the breath
of far seas and strange harbours in their shrouds... Certainly this girl would understand.
He went up to her quietly, lifting his hat, observing the forms--wishing her to see at once
that he was "a gentleman."

"I am a stranger to you," he began, sitting down beside her, "but your face is so extremely
intelligent that I feel... I feel it is the face I've waited for ... looked for everywhere;
and I want to tell you--"

The girl's eyes widened: she rose to her feet. She was escaping him!

In his dismay he ran a few steps after her, and caught her roughly by the arm.

"Here--wait--listen! Oh, don't scream, you fool!" he shouted out.

He felt a hand on his own arm; turned and confronted a policeman. Instantly he understood that
he was being arrested, and something hard within him was loosened and ran to tears.

"Ah, you know--you know I'm guilty!"

He was conscious that a crowd was forming, and that the girl's frightened face had disappeared.
But what did he care about her face? It was the policeman who had really understood him. He
turned and followed, the crowd at his heels...

VII

IN the charming place in which he found himself there were so many sympathetic faces that he
felt more than ever convinced of the certainty of making himself heard.

It was a bad blow, at first, to find that he had not been arrested for murder; but Ascham,
who had come to him at once, explained that he needed rest, and the time to "review" his statements;
it appeared that reiteration had made them a little confused and contradictory. To this end
he had willingly acquiesced in his removal to a large quiet establishment, with an open space
and trees about it, where he had found a number of intelligent companions, some, like himself,
engaged in preparing or reviewing statements of their cases, and others ready to lend an interested
ear to his own recital.

For a time he was content to let himself go on the tranquil current of this existence; but
although his auditors gave him for the most part an encouraging attention, which, in some,
went the length of really brilliant and helpful suggestion, he gradually felt a recurrence
of his old doubts. Either his hearers were not sincere, or else they had less power to aid
him than they boasted. His interminable conferences resulted in nothing, and as the benefit
of the long rest made itself felt, it produced an increased mental lucidity which rendered
inaction more and more unbearable. At length he discovered that on certain days visitors from
the outer world were admitted to his retreat; and he wrote out long and logically constructed
relations of his crime, and furtively slipped them into the hands of these messengers of hope.

This occupation gave him a fresh lease of patience, and he now lived only to watch for the
visitors' days, and scan the faces that swept by him like stars seen and lost in the rifts
of a hurrying sky.

Mostly, these faces were strange and less intelligent than those of his companions. But they
represented his last means of access to the world, a kind of subterranean channel on which
he could set his "statements" afloat, like paper boats which the mysterious current might sweep
out into the open seas of life.

One day, however, his attention was arrested by a familiar contour, a pair of bright prominent
eyes, and a chin insufficiently shaved. He sprang up and stood in the path of Peter McCarren.

The journalist looked at him doubtfully, then held out his hand with a startled deprecating,
"Why--?"

"You didn't know me? I'm so changed?" Granice faltered, feeling the rebound of the other's wonder.

"Why, no; but you're looking quieter--smoothed out," McCarren smiled.

"Yes: that's what I'm here for--to rest. And I've taken the opportunity to write out a clearer
statement--"

Granice's hand shook so that he could hardly draw the folded paper from his pocket. As he did
so he noticed that the reporter was accompanied by a tall man with grave compassionate eyes.
It came to Granice in a wild thrill of conviction that this was the face he had waited for...

"Perhaps your friend--he is your friend?--would glance over it--or I could put the case in
a few words if you have time?" Granice's voice shook like his hand. If this chance escaped
him he felt that his last hope was gone. McCarren and the stranger looked at each other, and
the former glanced at his watch.

"I'm sorry we can't stay and talk it over now, Mr. Granice; but my friend has an engagement,
and we're rather pressed--"

Granice continued to proffer the paper. "I'm sorry--I think I could have explained. But you'll
take this, at any rate?"

The stranger looked at him gently. "Certainly--I'll take it." He had his hand out. "Good-bye."

"Good-bye," Granice echoed.

He stood watching the two men move away from him through the long light hall; and as he watched
them a tear ran down his face. But as soon as they were out of sight he turned and walked hastily
toward his room, beginning to hope again, already planning a new statement.

Outside the building the two men stood still, and the journalist's companion looked up curiously
at the long monotonous rows of barred windows.

"So that was Granice?"

"Yes--that was Granice, poor devil," said McCarren.

"Strange case! I suppose there's never been one just like it? He's still absolutely convinced
that he committed that murder?"

"Absolutely. Yes."

The stranger reflected. "And there was no conceivable ground for the idea? No one could make
out how it started? A quiet conventional sort of fellow like that--where do you suppose he
got such a delusion? Did you ever get the least clue to it?"

McCarren stood still, his hands in his pockets, his head cocked up in contemplation of the
barred windows. Then he turned his bright hard gaze on his companion.

"That was the queer part of it. I've never spoken of it--but I did get a clue."

"By Jove! That's interesting. What was it?"

McCarren formed his red lips into a whistle. "Why--that it wasn't a delusion."

He produced his effect--the other turned on him with a pallid stare.

"He murdered the man all right. I tumbled on the truth by the merest accident, when I'd pretty
nearly chucked the whole job."

"He murdered him--murdered his cousin?"

"Sure as you live. Only don't split on me. It's about the queerest business I ever ran into...
Do about it? Why, what was I to do? I couldn't hang the poor devil, could I? Lord, but I was
glad when they collared him, and had him stowed away safe in there!"

The tall man listened with a grave face, grasping Granice's statement in his hand.

"Here--take this; it makes me sick," he said abruptly, thrusting the paper at the reporter;
and the two men turned and walked in silence to the gates.

HIS FATHER'S SON

I

AFTER his wife's death Mason Grew took the momentous step of selling out his business and moving
from Wingfield, Connecticut, to Brooklyn.

For years he had secretly nursed the hope of such a change, but had never dared to suggest
it to Mrs. Grew, a woman of immutable habits. Mr. Grew himself was attached to Wingfield, where
he had grown up, prospered, and become what the local press described as "prominent." He was
attached to his ugly brick house with sandstone trimmings and a cast-iron area-railing neatly
sanded to match; to the similar row of houses across the street, the "trolley" wires forming
a kind of aerial pathway between, and the sprawling vista closed by the steeple of the church
which he and his wife had always attended, and where their only child had been baptized.

It was hard to snap all these threads of association, visual and sentimental; yet still harder,
now that he was alone, to live so far from his boy. Ronald Grew was practising law in New York,
and there was no more chance of returning to live at Wingfield than of a river's flowing inland
from the sea. Therefore to be near him his father must move; and it was characteristic of Mr.
Grew, and of the situation generally, that the translation, when it took place, was to Brooklyn,
and not to New York.

"Why you bury yourself in that hole I can't think," had been Ronald's comment; and Mr. Grew
simply replied that rents were lower in Brooklyn, and that he had heard of a house that would
suit him. In reality he had said to himself--being the only recipient of his own confidences--that
if he went to New York he might be on the boy's mind; whereas, if he lived in Brooklyn, Ronald
would always have a good excuse for not popping over to see him every other day. The sociological
isolation of Brooklyn, combined with its geographical nearness, presented in fact the precise
conditions for Mr. Grew's case. He wanted to be near enough to New York to go there often,
to feel under his feet the same pavement that Ronald trod, to sit now and then in the same
theatres, and find on his breakfast-table the journals which, with increasing frequency, inserted
Ronald's name in the sacred bounds of the society column. It had always been a trial to Mr.
Grew to have to wait twenty-four hours to read that "among those present was Mr. Ronald Grew."
Now he had it with his coffee, and left it on the breakfast-table to the perusal of a "hired
girl" cosmopolitan enough to do it justice. In such ways Brooklyn attested the advantages of
its propinquity to New York, while remaining, as regards Ronald's duty to his father, as remote
and inaccessible as Wingfield.

It was not that Ronald shirked his filial obligations, but rather because of his heavy sense
of them, that Mr. Grew so persistently sought to minimize and lighten them. It was he who insisted,
to Ronald, on the immense difficulty of getting from New York to Brooklyn.

"Any way you look at it, it makes a big hole in the day; and there's not much use in the ragged
rim left. You say you're dining out next Sunday? Then I forbid you to come over here for lunch.
Do you understand me, sir? You disobey at the risk of your father's malediction! Where did
you say you were dining? With the Waltham Bankshires again? Why, that's the second time in
three weeks, ain't it? Big blow-out, I suppose? Gold plate and orchids--opera singers in afterward?
Well, you'd be in a nice box if there was a fog on the river, and you got hung up half-way
over. That'd be a handsome return for the attention Mrs. Bankshire has shown you--singling
out a whipper-snapper like you twice in three weeks! (What's the daughter's name--Daisy?) No,
sir--don't you come fooling round here next Sunday, or I'll set the dogs on you. And you wouldn't
find me in anyhow, come to think of it. I'm lunching out myself, as it happens--yes sir, lunching
out. Is there anything especially comic in my lunching out? I don't often do it, you say? Well,
that's no reason why I never should. Who with? Why, with--with old Dr. Bleaker: Dr. Eliphalet
Bleaker. No, you wouldn't know about him--he's only an old friend of your mother's and mine."

Gradually Ronald's insistence became less difficult to overcome. With his customary sweetness
and tact (as Mr. Grew put it) he began to "take the hint," to give in to "the old gentleman's"
growing desire for solitude.

"I'm set in my ways, Ronny, that's about the size of it; I like to go tick-ticking along like
a clock. I always did. And when you come bouncing in I never feel sure there's enough for dinner--or
that I haven't sent Maria out for the evening. And I don't want the neighbors to see me opening
my own door to my son. That's the kind of cringing snob I am. Don't give me away, will you?
I want 'em to think I keep four or five powdered flunkeys in the hall day and night--same as
the lobby of one of those Fifth Avenue hotels. And if you pop over when you're not expected,
how am I going to keep up the bluff?"

Ronald yielded after the proper amount of resistance--his intuitive sense, in every social
transaction, of the proper amount of force to be expended, was one of the qualities his father
most admired in him. Mr. Grew's perceptions in this line were probably more acute than his
son suspected. The souls of short thick-set men, with chubby features, mutton-chop whiskers,
and pale eyes peering between folds of fat like almond kernels in half-split shells--souls
thus encased do not reveal themselves to the casual scrutiny as delicate emotional instruments.
But in spite of the dense disguise in which he walked Mr. Grew vibrated exquisitely in response
to every imaginative appeal; and his son Ronald was perpetually stimulating and feeding his
imagination.

Ronald in fact constituted his father's one escape from the impenetrable element of mediocrity
which had always hemmed him in. To a man so enamoured of beauty, and so little qualified to
add to its sum total, it was a wonderful privilege to have bestowed on the world such a being.
Ronald's resemblance to Mr. Grew's early conception of what he himself would have liked to
look might have put new life into the discredited theory of pre-natal influences. At any rate,
if the young man owed his beauty, his distinction and his winning manner to the dreams of one
of his parents, it was certainly to those of Mr. Grew, who, while outwardly devoting his life
to the manufacture and dissemination of Grew's Secure Suspender Buckle, moved in an enchanted
inward world peopled with all the figures of romance. In this high company Mr. Grew cut as
brilliant a figure as any of its noble phantoms; and to see his vision of himself suddenly
projected on the outer world in the shape of a brilliant popular conquering son, seemed, in
retrospect, to give to that image a belated objective reality. There were even moments when,
forgetting his physiognomy, Mr. Grew said to himself that if he'd had "half a chance" he might
have done as well as Ronald; but this only fortified his resolve that Ronald should do infinitely
better.

Ronald's ability to do well almost equalled his gift of looking well. Mr. Grew constantly affirmed
to himself that the boy was "not a genius"; but, barring this slight deficiency, he was almost
everything that a parent could wish. Even at Harvard he had managed to be several desirable
things at once--writing poetry in the college magazine, playing delightfully "by ear," acquitting
himself honorably in his studies, and yet holding his own in the fashionable sporting set that
formed, as it were, the gateway of the temple of Society. Mr. Grew's idealism did not preclude
the frank desire that his son should pass through that gateway; but the wish was not prompted
by material considerations. It was Mr. Grew's notion that, in the rough and hurrying current
of a new civilization, the little pools of leisure and enjoyment must nurture delicate growths,
material graces as well as moral refinements, likely to be uprooted and swept away by the rush
of the main torrent. He based his theory on the fact that he had liked the few "society" people
he had met--had found their manners simpler, their voices more agreeable, their views more
consonant with his own, than those of the leading citizens of Wingfield. But then he had met
very few.

Ronald's sympathies needed no urging in the same direction. He took naturally, dauntlessly,
to all the high and exceptional things about which his father's imagination had so long sheepishly
and ineffectually hovered--from the start he was what Mr. Grew had dreamed of being. And so
precise, so detailed, was Mr. Grew's vision of his own imaginary career, that as Ronald grew
up, and began to travel in a widening orbit, his father had an almost uncanny sense of the
extent to which that career was enacting itself before him. At Harvard, Ronald had done exactly
what the hypothetical Mason Grew would have done, had not his actual self, at the same age,
been working his way up in old Slagden's button factory--the institution which was later to
acquire fame, and even notoriety, as the birthplace of Grew's Secure Suspender Buckle. Afterward,
at a period when the actual Grew had passed from the factory to the bookkeeper's desk, his
invisible double had been reading law at Columbia--precisely again what Ronald did! But it
was when the young man left the paths laid out for him by the parental hand, and cast himself
boldly on the world, that his adventures began to bear the most astonishing resemblance to
those of the unrealized Mason Grew. It was in New York that the scene of this hypothetical
being's first exploits had always been laid; and it was in New York that Ronald was to achieve
his first triumph. There was nothing small or timid about Mr. Grew's imagination; it had never
stopped at anything between Wingfield and the metropolis. And the real Ronald had the same
cosmic vision as his parent. He brushed aside with a contemptuous laugh his mother's tearful
entreaty that he should stay at Wingfield and continue the dynasty of the Grew Suspender Buckle.
Mr. Grew knew that in reality Ronald winced at the Buckle, loathed it, blushed for his connection
with it. Yet it was the Buckle that had seen him through Groton, Harvard and the Law School,
and had permitted him to enter the office of a distinguished corporation lawyer, instead of
being enslaved to some sordid business with quick returns. The Buckle had been Ronald's fairy
godmother--yet his father did not blame him for abhorring and disowning it. Mr. Grew himself
often bitterly regretted having bestowed his own name on the instrument of his material success,
though, at the time, his doing so had been the natural expression of his romanticism. When
he invented the Buckle, and took out his patent, he and his wife both felt that to bestow their
name on it was like naming a battle-ship or a peak of the Andes.

Mrs. Grew had never learned to know better; but Mr. Grew had discovered his error before Ronald
was out of school. He read it first in a black eye of his boy's. Ronald's symmetry had been
marred by the insolent fist of a fourth former whom he had chastised for alluding to his father
as "Old Buckles;" and when Mr. Grew heard the epithet he understood in a flash that the Buckle
was a thing to blush for. It was too late then to dissociate his name from it, or to efface
from the hoardings of the entire continent the picture of two gentlemen, one contorting himself
in the abject effort to repair a broken brace, while the careless ease of the other's attitude
proclaimed his trust in the Secure Suspender Buckle. These records were indelible, but Ronald
could at least be spared all direct connection with them; and from that day Mr. Grew resolved
that the boy should not return to Wingfield.

"You'll see," he had said to Mrs. Grew, "he'll take right hold in New York. Ronald's got my
knack for taking hold," he added, throwing out his chest.

"But the way you took hold was in business," objected Mrs. Grew, who was large and literal.

Mr. Grew's chest collapsed, and he became suddenly conscious of his comic face in its rim of
sandy whiskers. "That's not the only way," he said, with a touch of wistfulness which escaped
his wife's analysis.

"Well, of course you could have written beautifully," she rejoined with admiring eyes.

" Written? Me!" Mr. Grew became sardonic.

"Why, those letters--weren't they beautiful, I'd like to know?"

The couple exchanged a glance, innocently allusive and amused on the wife's part, and charged
with a sudden tragic significance on the husband's.

"Well, I've got to be going along to the office now," he merely said, dragging himself out
of his rocking-chair.

This had happened while Ronald was still at school; and now Mrs. Grew slept in the Wingfield
cemetery, under a life-size theo- logical virtue of her own choosing, and Mr. Grew's prognostications
as to Ronald's ability to "take right hold" in New York were being more and more brilliantly
fulfilled.

II

RONALD obeyed his father's injunction not to come to luncheon on the day of the Bankshires'
dinner; but in the middle of the following week Mr. Grew was surprised by a telegram from his son.

"Want to see you important matter. Expect me to-morrow afternoon."

Mr. Grew received the telegram after breakfast. To peruse it he had lifted his eye from a paragraph
of the morning paper describing a fancy-dress dinner which had taken place the night before
at the Hamilton Gliddens' for the house-warming of their new Fifth Avenue palace.

"Among the couples who afterward danced in the Poets' Quadrille were Miss Daisy Bankshire,
looking more than usually lovely as Laura, and Mr. Ronald Grew as the young Petrarch."

Petrarch and Laura! Well--if anything meant anything, Mr. Grew supposed he knew what that meant.
For weeks past he had noticed how constantly the names of the young people appeared together
in the society notes he so insatiably devoured. Even the soulless reporter was getting into
the habit of coupling them in his lists. And this Laura and Petrarch business was almost an
announcement...

Mr. Grew dropped the telegram, wiped his eye-glasses, and re-read the paragraph. "Miss Daisy
Bankshire ... more than usually lovely..." Yes; she was lovely. He had often seen her photograph
in the papers--seen her represented in every conceivable attitude of the mundane game: fondling
her prize bull-dog, taking a fence on her thoroughbred, dancing a gavotte, all patches and
plumes, or fingering a guitar, all tulle and lilies; and once he had caught a glimpse of her
at the theatre. Hearing that Ronald was going to a fashionable first-night with the Bankshires,
Mr. Grew had for once overcome his repugnance to following his son's movements, and had secured
for himself, under the shadow of the balcony, a stall whence he could observe the Bankshire
box without fear of detection. Ronald had never known of his father's presence at the play;
and for three blessed hours Mr. Grew had watched his boy's handsome dark head bent above the
dense fair hair and white averted shoulder that were all he could catch of Miss Bankshire's
beauties.

He recalled the vision now; and with it came, as usual, its ghostly double: the vision of his
young self bending above such a white shoulder and such shining hair. Needless to say that
the real Mason Grew had never found himself in so enviable a situation. The late Mrs. Grew
had no more resembled Miss Daisy Bankshire than he had looked like the happy victorious Ronald.
And the mystery was that from their dull faces, their dull endearments, the miracle of Ronald
should have sprung. It was almost--fantastically--as if the boy had been a changeling, child
of a Latmian night, whom the divine companion of Mr. Grew's early reveries had secretly laid
in the cradle of the Wingfield bedroom while Mr. And Mrs. Grew slept the deep sleep of conjugal
indifference.

The young Mason Grew had not at first accepted this astral episode as the complete cancelling
of his claims on romance. He too had grasped at the high-hung glory; and, with his fatal tendency
to reach too far when he reached at all, had singled out the prettiest girl in Wingfield. When
he recalled his stammered confession of love his face still tingled under her cool bright stare.
The wonder of his audacity had struck her dumb; and when she recovered her voice it was to
fling a taunt at him.

"Don't be too discouraged, you know--have you ever thought of trying Addie Wicks?"

All Wingfield would have understood the gibe: Addie Wicks was the dullest girl in town. And
a year later he had married Addie Wicks...

He looked up from the perusal of Ronald's telegram with this memory in his mind. Now at last
his dream was coming true! His boy would taste of the joys that had mocked his thwarted youth
and his dull gray middle-age. And it was fitting that they should be realized in Ronald's destiny.
Ronald was made to take happiness boldly by the hand and lead it home like a bridegroom. He
had the carriage, the confidence, the high faith in his fortune, that compel the wilful stars.
And, thanks to the Buckle, he would have the exceptional setting, the background of material
elegance, that became his conquering person. Since Mr. Grew had retired from business his investments
had prospered, and he had been saving up his income for just such a contingency. His own wants
were few: he had transferred the Wingfield furniture to Brooklyn, and his sitting-room was
a replica of that in which the long years of his married life had been spent. Even the florid
carpet on which Ronald's tottering footsteps had been taken was carefully matched when it became
too threadbare. And on the marble centre-table, with its chenille-fringed cover and bunch of
dyed pampas grass, lay the illustrated Longfellow and the copy of Ingersoll's lectures which
represented literature to Mr. Grew when he had led home his bride. In the light of Ronald's
romance, Mr. Grew found himself re-living, with a strange tremor of mingled pain and tenderness,
all the poor prosaic incidents of his own personal history. Curiously enough, with this new
splendor on them they began to emit a small faint ray of their own. His wife's armchair, in
its usual place by the fire, recalled her placid unperceiving presence, seated opposite to
him during the long drowsy years; and he felt her kindness, her equanimity, where formerly
he had only ached at her obtuseness. And from the chair he glanced up at the large discolored
photograph on the wall above, with a brittle brown wreath suspended on a corner of the frame.
The photograph represented a young man with a poetic necktie and untrammelled hair, leaning
negligently against a Gothic chair-back, a roll of music in his hand; and beneath was scrawled
a bar of Chopin, with the words: " Adieu, Adele."

The portrait was that of the great pianist, Fortune Dolbrowski; and its presence on the wall
of Mr. Grew's sitting-room commemorated the only exquisite hour of his life save that of Ronald's
birth. It was some time before the latter memorable event, a few months only after Mr. Grew's
marriage, that he had taken his wife to New York to hear the great Dolbrowski. Their evening
had been magically beautiful, and even Addie, roused from her habitual inexpressiveness, had
quivered into a momentary semblance of life. "I never--I never--" she gasped out helplessly
when they had regained their hotel bedroom, and sat staring back entranced at the evening's
evocations. Her large immovable face was pink and tremulous, and she sat with her hands on
her knees, forgetting to roll up her bonnet-strings and prepare her curl-papers.

"I'd like to write him just how I felt--I wisht I knew how!" she burst out suddenly in a final
effervescence of emotion.

Her husband lifted his head and looked at her.

"Would you? I feel that way too," he said with a sheepish laugh. And they continued to stare
at each other shyly through a transfiguring mist of sound.

Mr. Grew recalled the scene as he gazed up at the pianist's faded photograph. "Well, I owe
her that anyhow--poor Addie!" he said, with a smile at the inconsequences of fate. With Ronald's
telegram in his hand he was in a mood to count his mercies.

III

"A CLEAR twenty-five thousand a year: that's what you can tell 'em with my compliments," said
Mr. Grew, glancing complacently across the centre-table at his boy's charming face.

It struck him that Ronald's gift for looking his part in life had never so romantically expressed
itself. Other young men, at such a moment, would have been red, damp, tight about the collar;
but Ronald's cheek was only a shade paler, and the contrast made his dark eyes more expressive.

"A clear twenty-five thousand; yes, sir--that's what I always meant you to have."

Mr. Grew leaned back, his hands thrust carelessly in his pockets, as though to divert attention
from the agitation of his features. He had often pictured himself rolling out that phrase to
Ronald, and now that it was actually on his lips he could not control their tremor.

Ronald listened in silence, lifting a nervous hand to his slight dark moustache, as though
he, too, wished to hide some involuntary betrayal of emotion. At first Mr. Grew took his silence
for an expression of gratified surprise; but as it prolonged itself it became less easy to
interpret.

"I--see here, my boy; did you expect more? Isn't it enough?" Mr. Grew cleared his throat. "Do
they expect more?" he asked nervously. He was hardly able to face the pain of inflicting a
disappointment on Ronald at the very moment when he had counted on putting the final touch
to his felicity.

Ronald moved uneasily in his chair and his eyes wandered upward to the laurel-wreathed photograph
of the pianist above his father's head.

" Is it that, Ronald? Speak out, my boy. We'll see, we'll look round--I'll manage somehow."

"No, no," the young man interrupted, abruptly raising his hand as though to silence his father.

Mr. Grew recovered his cheerfulness. "Well, what's the matter than, if she's willing?"

Ronald shifted his position again, and finally rose from his seat.

"Father--I--there's something I've got to tell you. I can't take your money."

Mr. Grew sat speechless a moment, staring blankly at his son; then he emitted a puzzled laugh.
"My money? What are you talking about? What's this about my money? Why, it ain't mine, Ronny;
it's all yours--every cent of it!" he cried.

The young man met his tender look with a gaze of tragic rejection.

"No, no, it's not mine--not even in the sense you mean. Not in any sense. Can't you understand
my feeling so?"

"Feeling so? I don't know how you're feeling. I don't know what you're talking about. Are you
too proud to touch any money you haven't earned? Is that what you're trying to tell me?"

"No. It's not that. You must know--"

Mr. Grew flushed to the rim of his bristling whiskers. "Know? Know what? Can't you speak?"

Ronald hesitated, and the two men faced each other for a long strained moment, during which
Mr. Grew's congested countenance grew gradually pale again.

"What's the meaning of this? Is it because you've done something ... something you're ashamed
of ... ashamed to tell me?" he suddenly gasped out; and walking around the table he laid his
hand on his son's shoulder. "There's nothing you can't tell me, my boy."

"It's not that. Why do you make it so hard for me?" Ronald broke out with passion. "You must
have known this was sure to happen sooner or later."

"Happen? What was sure to hap--?" Mr. Grew's question wavered on his lip and passed into a
tremulous laugh. "Is it something I've done that you don't approve of? Is it--is it the Buckle
you're ashamed of, Ronald Grew?"

Ronald laughed too, impatiently. "The Buckle? No, I'm not ashamed of the Buckle; not any more
than you are," he returned with a sudden bright flush. "But I'm ashamed of all I owe to it--all
I owe to you--when--when--" He broke off and took a few distracted steps across the room. "You
might make this easier for me," he protested, turning back to his father.

"Make what easier? I know less and less what you're driving at," Mr. Grew groaned.

Ronald's walk had once more brought him beneath the photograph on the wall. He lifted his head
for a moment and looked at it; then he looked again at Mr. Grew.

"Do you suppose I haven't always known?"

"Known--?"

"Even before you gave me those letters--after my mother's death--even before that, I suspected.
I don't know how it began ... perhaps from little things you let drop ... you and she ... and
resemblances that I couldn't help seeing ... in myself ... How on earth could you suppose I
shouldn't guess? I always thought you gave me the letters as a way of telling me--"

Mr. Grew rose slowly from his chair. "The letters? Dolbrowski's letters?"

Ronald nodded with white lips. "You must remember giving them to me the day after the funeral."

Mr. Grew nodded back. "Of course. I wanted you to have everything your mother valued."

"Well--how could I help knowing after that?"

"Knowing what?" Mr. Grew stood staring helplessly at his son. Suddenly his look caught at a
clue that seemed to confront it with a deeper bewilderment. "You thought--you thought those
letters ... Dolbrowski's letters ... you thought they meant ..."

"Oh, it wasn't only the letters. There were so many other signs. My love of music--my--all
my feelings about life ... and art... And when you gave me the letters I thought you must mean
me to know."

Mr. Grew had grown quiet. His lips were firm, and his small eyes looked out steadily from their
creased lids.

"To know that you were Fortune Dolbrowski's son?"

Ronald made a mute sign of assent.

"I see. And what did you mean to do?"

"I meant to wait till I could earn my living, and then repay you ... as far as I can ever repay
you... But now that there's a chance of my marrying ... and your generosity overwhelms me ...
I'm obliged to speak."

"I see," said Mr. Grew again. He let himself down into his chair, looking steadily and not
unkindly at the young man. "Sit down, Ronald. Let's talk."

Ronald made a protesting movement. "Is anything to be gained by it? You can't change me--change
what I feel. The reading of those letters transformed my whole life--I was a boy till then:
they made a man of me. From that moment I understood myself." He paused, and then looked up
at Mr. Grew's face. "Don't imagine I don't appreciate your kindness--your extraordinary generosity.
But I can't go through life in disguise. And I want you to know that I have not won Daisy under
false pretences--"

Mr. Grew started up with the first expletive Ronald had ever heard on his lips.

"You damned young fool, you, you haven't told her--?"

Ronald raised his head quickly. "Oh, you don't know her, sir! She thinks no worse of me for
knowing my secret. She is above and beyond all such conventional prejudices. She's proud of
my parentage--" he straightened his slim young shoulders--"as I'm proud of it ... yes, sir,
proud of it..."

Mr. Grew sank back into his seat with a dry laugh. "Well, you ought to be. You come of good
stock. And you're father's son, every inch of you!" He laughed again, as though the humor of
the situation grew on him with its closer contemplation.

"Yes, I've always felt that," Ronald murmured, flushing.

"Your father's son, and no mistake." Mr. Grew leaned forward. "You're the son of as big a fool
as yourself. And here he sits, Ronald Grew."

The young man's flush deepened to crimson; but Mr. Grew checked his reply with a decisive gesture.
"Here he sits, with all your young nonsense still alive in him. Don't you see the likeness?
If you don't, I'll tell you the story of those letters."

Ronald stared. "What do you mean? Don't they tell their own story?"

"I supposed they did when I gave them to you; but you've given it a twist that needs straightening
out." Mr. Grew squared his elbows on the table, and looked at the young man across the gift-books
and the dyed pampas grass. "I wrote all the letters that Dolbrowski answered."

Ronald gave back his look in frowning perplexity. "You wrote them? I don't understand. His
letters are all addressed to my mother."

"Yes. And he thought he was corresponding with her."

"But my mother--what did she think?"

Mr. Grew hesitated, puckering his thick lids. "Well, I guess she kinder thought it was a joke.
Your mother didn't think about things much."

Ronald continued to bend a puzzled frown on the question. "I don't understand," he reiterated.

Mr. Grew cleared his throat with a nervous laugh. "Well, I don't know as you ever will--quite.
But this is the way it came about. I had a toughish time of it when I was young. Oh, I don't
mean so much the fight I had to put up to make my way--there was always plenty of fight in
me. But inside of myself it was kinder lonesome. And the outside didn't attract callers." He
laughed again, with an apologetic gesture toward his broad blinking face. "When I went round
with the other young fellows I was always the forlorn hope--the one that had to eat the drumsticks
and dance with the left-overs. As sure as there was a blighter at a picnic I had to swing her,
and feed her, and drive her home. And all the time I was mad after all the things you've got--poetry
and music and all the joy-forever business. So there were the pair of us--my face and my imagination--chained
together, and fighting, and hating each other like poison.

"Then your mother came along and took pity on me. It sets up a gawky fellow to find a girl
who ain't ashamed to be seen walking with him Sundays. And I was grateful to your mother, and
we got along first-rate. Only I couldn't say things to her--and she couldn't answer. Well--one
day, a few months after we were married, Dolbrowski came to New York, and the whole place went
wild about him. I'd never heard any good music, but I'd always had an inkling of what it must
be like, though I couldn't tell you to this day how I knew. Well, your mother read about him
in the papers too, and she thought it'd be the swagger thing to go to New York and hear him
play--so we went... I'll never forget that evening. Your mother wasn't easily stirred up--she
never seemed to need to let off steam. But that night she seemed to understand the way I felt.
And when we got back to the hotel she said suddenly: 'I'd like to tell him how I feel. I'd
like to sit right down and write to him.'

"'Would you?' I said. 'So would I.'

"There was paper and pens there before us, and I pulled a sheet toward me, and began to write.
'Is this what you'd like to say to him?' I asked her when the letter was done. And she got
pink and said: 'I don't understand it, but it's lovely.' And she copied it out and signed her
name to it, and sent it."

Mr. Grew paused, and Ronald sat silent, with lowered eyes.

"That's how it began; and that's where I thought it would end. But it didn't, because Dolbrowski
answered. His first letter was dated January 10, 1872. I guess you'll find I'm correct. Well,
I went back to hear him again, and I wrote him after the performance, and he answered again.
And after that we kept it up for six months. Your mother always copied the letters and signed
them. She seemed to think it was a kinder joke, and she was proud of his answering my letters.
But she never went back to New York to hear him, though I saved up enough to give her the treat
again. She was too lazy, and she let me go without her. I heard him three times in New York;
and in the spring he came to Wingfield and played once at the Academy. Your mother was sick
and couldn't go; so I went alone. After the performance I meant to get one of the directors
to take me in to see him; but when the time came, I just went back home and wrote to him instead.
And the month after, before he went back to Europe, he sent your mother a last little note,
and that picture hanging up there..."

Mr. Grew paused again, and both men lifted their eyes to the photograph.

"Is that all?" Ronald slowly asked.

"That's all--every bit of it," said Mr. Grew.

"And my mother--my mother never even spoke to Dolbrowski?"

"Never. She never even saw him but that once in New York at his concert."

"The blood crept again to Ronald's face. "Are you sure of that, sir?" he asked in a trembling
voice.

"Sure as I am that I'm sitting here. Why, she was too lazy to look at his letters after the
first novelty wore off. She copied the answers just to humor me--but she always said she couldn't
understand what we wrote."

"But how could you go on with such a correspondence? It's incredible!"

Mr. Grew looked at his son thoughtfully. "I suppose it is, to you. You've only had to put out
your hand and get the things I was starving for--music, and good talk, and ideas. Those letters
gave me all that. You've read them, and you know that Dolbrowski was not only a great musician
but a great man. There was nothing beautiful he didn't see, nothing fine he didn't feel. For
six months I breathed his air, and I've lived on it ever since. Do you begin to understand
a little now?"

"Yes--a little. But why write in my mother's name? Why make it a sentimental correspondence?"

Mr. Grew reddened to his bald temples. "Why, I tell you it began that way, as a kinder joke.
And when I saw that the first letter pleased and interested him, I was afraid to tell him--I
couldn't tell him. Do you suppose he'd gone on writing if he'd ever seen me, Ronny?"

Ronald suddenly looked at him with new eyes. "But he must have thought your letters very beautiful--to
go on as he did," he broke out.

"Well--I did my best," said Mr. Grew modestly.

Ronald pursued his idea. "Where are all your letters, I wonder? Weren't they returned to you
at his death?"

Mr. Grew laughed. "Lord, no. I guess he had trunks and trunks full of better ones. I guess
Queens and Empresses wrote to him."

"I should have liked to see your letters," the young man insisted.

"Well, they weren't bad," said Mr. Grew drily. "But I'll tell you one thing, Ronny," he added
suddenly. Ronald raised his head with a quick glance, and Mr. Grew continued: "I'll tell you
where the best of those letters is--it's in you. If it hadn't been for that one look at life
I couldn't have made you what you are. Oh, I know you've done a good deal of your own making--but
I've been there behind you all the time. And you'll never know the work I've spared you and
the time I've saved you. Fortune Dolbrowski helped me do that. I never saw things in little
again after I'd looked at 'em with him. And I tried to give you the big view from the stars...
So that's what became of my letters."

Mr. Grew paused, and for a long time Ronald sat motionless, his elbows on the table, his face
dropped on his hands.

Suddenly Mr. Grew's touch fell on his shoulder.

"Look at here, Ronald Grew--do you want me to tell you how you're feeling at this minute? Just
a mite let down, after all, at the idea that you ain't the romantic figure you'd got to think
yourself... Well, that's natural enough, too; but I'll tell you what it proves. It proves you're
my son right enough, if any more proof was needed. For it's just the kind of fool nonsense
I used to feel at your age--and if there's anybody here to laugh at it's myself, and not you.
And you can laugh at me just as much as you like..."

THE DAUNT DIANA

I

"WHAT'S become of the Daunt Diana? You mean to say you never heard the sequel?"

Ringham Finney threw himself back into his chair with the smile of the collector who has a
good thing to show. He knew he had a good listener, at any rate. I don't think much of Ringham's
snuff-boxes, but his anecdotes are usually worth while. He's a psychologist astray among bibelots,
and the best bits he brings back from his raids on Christie's and the Hotel Drouot are the
fragments of human nature he picks up on those historic battle-fields. If his flair in enamel
had been half as good we should have heard of the Finney collection by this time.

He really has--queer fatuous investigator!--an unusually sensitive touch for the human texture,
and the specimens he gathers into his museum of heterogeneous memories have almost always some
mark of the rare and chosen. I felt, therefore, that I was really to be congratulated on the
fact that I didn't know what had become of the Daunt Diana, and on having before me a long
evening in which to learn. I had just led my friend back, after an excellent dinner at Foyot's,
to the shabby pleasant sitting-room of my rive-gauche hotel; and I knew that, once I had settled
him in a good arm-chair, and put a box of cigars at his elbow, I could trust him not to budge
till I had the story.

II

YOU remember old Neave, of course? Little Humphrey Neave, I mean. We used to see him pottering
about Rome years ago. He lived in two tiny rooms over a wine shop, on polenta and lentils,
and prowled among the refuse of the Ripetta whenever he had a few soldi to spend. But you've
been out of the collector's world for so long that you may not know what happened to him afterward...

He was always a queer chap, Neave; years older than you and me, of course--and even when I
first knew him, in my raw Roman days, he gave me an extraordinary sense of age and experience.
I don't think I've ever known any one who was at once so intelligent and so simple. It's the
precise combination that results in romance; and poor little Neave was romantic.

He told me once how he'd come to Rome. He was originaire of Mystic, Connecticut--and he wanted
to get as far away from it as possible. Rome seemed as far as anything on the same planet could
be; and after he'd worried his way through Harvard--with shifts and shavings that you and I
can't imagine--he contrived to get sent to Switzerland as tutor to a chap who'd failed in his
examinations. With only the Alps between, he wasn't likely to turn back; and he got another
fellow to take his pupil home, and struck out on foot for the seven hills.

I'm telling you these early details merely to give you a notion of the man's idealism. There
was a cool persistency and a headlong courage in his dash for Rome that one wouldn't have guessed
in the little pottering chap we used to know. Once on the spot, he got more tutoring, managed
to make himself a name for coaxing balky youths to take their fences, and was finally able
to take up the more congenial task of expounding "the antiquities" to cultured travellers.
I call it more congenial--but how it must have seared his soul! Fancy unveiling the sacred
scars of Time to ladies who murmur: "Was this actually the spot--?" while they absently feel
for their hatpins! He used to say that nothing kept him at it but the exquisite thought of
accumulating the lire for his collection. For the Neave collection, my dear fellow, began early,
began almost with his Roman life, began in a series of little nameless odds and ends, broken
trinkets, torn embroideries, the amputated extremities of maimed marbles: things that even
the rag-picker had pitched away when he sifted his haul. But they weren't nameless or meaningless
to Neave; his strength lay in his instinct for identifying, putting together, seeing significant
relations. He was a regular Cuvier of bric-a-brac. And during those early years, when he had
time to brood over trifles and note imperceptible differences, he gradually sharpened his instinct,
and made it into the delicate and redoubtable instrument it is. Before he had a thousand francs'
worth of anticaglie to his name he began to be known as an expert, and the big dealers were
glad to consult him. But we're getting no nearer the Daunt Diana...

Well, some fifteen years ago, in London, I ran across Neave at Christie's. He was the same
little man we'd known, effaced, bleached, indistinct, like a poor "impression"--as unnoticeable
as one of his own early finds, yet, like them, with a quality, if one had an eye for it. He
told me he still lived in Rome, and had contrived, by fierce self-denial, to get a few decent
bits together--"piecemeal, little by little, with fasting and prayer; and I mean the fasting
literally!" he said.

He had run over to London for his annual "look-round"--I fancy one or another of the big collectors
usually paid his journey--and when we met he was on his way to see the Daunt collection. You
know old Daunt was a surly brute, and the things weren't easily seen; but he had heard Neave
was in London, and had sent--yes, actually sent!--for him to come and give his opinion on a
few bits, including the Diana. The little man bore himself discreetly, but you can imagine
his pride. In his exultation he asked me to come with him--"Oh, I've the grandes et petites
entrees, my dear fellow: I've made my conditions--" and so it happened that I saw the first
meeting between Humphrey Neave and his fate.

For that collection was his fate: or, one may say, it was embodied in the Diana who was queen
and goddess of the realm. Yes--I shall always be glad I was with Neave when he had his first
look at the Diana. I see him now, blinking at her through his white lashes, and stroking his
seedy wisp of a moustache to hide a twitch of the muscles. It was all very quiet, but it was
the coup de foudre. I could see that by the way his hands trembled when he turned away and
began to examine the other things. You remember Neave's hands--thin, sallow, dry, with long
inquisitive fingers thrown out like antennae? Whatever they hold--bronze or lace, hard enamel
or brittle glass--they have an air of conforming themselves to the texture of the thing, and
sucking out of it, by every finger-tip, the mysterious essence it has secreted. Well, that
day, as he moved about among Daunt's treasures, the Diana followed him everywhere. He didn't
look back at her--he gave himself to the business he was there for--but whatever he touched,
he felt her. And on the threshold he turned and gave her his first free look--the kind of look
that says: "You're mine."

It amused me at the time--the idea of little Neave making eyes at any of Daunt's belongings.
He might as well have coquetted with the Kohinoor. And the same idea seemed to strike him;
for as we turned away from the big house in Belgravia he glanced up at it and said, with a
bitterness I'd never heard in him: "Good Lord! To think of that lumpy fool having those things
to handle! Did you notice his stupid stumps of fingers? I suppose he blunted them gouging nuggets
out of the gold fields. And in exchange for the nuggets he gets all that in a year--only has
to hold out his callous palm to have that great ripe sphere of beauty drop into it! That's
my idea of heaven--to have a great collection drop into one's hand, as success, or love, or
any of the big shining things, drop suddenly on some men. And I've had to worry along for nearly
fifty years, saving and paring, and haggling and intriguing, to get here a bit and there a
bit--and not one perfection in the lot! It's enough to poison a man's life."

The outbreak was so unlike Neave that I remember every word of it: remember, too, saying in
answer: "But, look here, Neave, you wouldn't take Daunt's hands for yours, I imagine?"

He stared a moment and smiled. "Have all that, and grope my way through it like a blind cave
fish? What a question! But the sense that it's always the blind fish that live in that kind
of aquarium is what makes anarchists, sir!" He looked back from the corner of the square, where
we had paused while he delivered himself of this remarkable metaphor. "God, I'd like to throw
a bomb at that place, and be in at the looting!"

And with that, on the way home, he unpacked his grievance--pulled the bandage off the wound,
and showed me the ugly mark it had made on his little white soul.

It wasn't the struggling, stinting, self-denying that galled him--it was the inadequacy of
the result. It was, in short, the old tragedy of the discrepancy between a man's wants and
his power to gratify them. Neave's taste was too exquisite for his means--was like some strange,
delicate, capricious animal, that he cherished and pampered and couldn't satisfy.

"Don't you know those little glittering lizards that die if they're not fed on some wonderful
tropical fly? Well, my taste's like that, with one important difference--if it doesn't get
its fly, it simply turns and feeds on me. Oh, it doesn't die, my taste--worse luck! It gets
larger and stronger and more fastidious, and takes a bigger bite of me--that's all."

That was all. Year by year, day by day, he had made himself into this delicate register of
perceptions and sensations--as far above the ordinary human faculty of appreciation as some
scientific registering instrument is beyond the rough human senses--only to find that the beauty
which alone could satisfy him was unattainable--that he was never to know the last deep identification
which only possession can give. He had trained himself in short, to feel, in the rare great
thing--such an utterance of beauty as the Daunt Diana, say--a hundred elements of perfection,
a hundred reasons why, imperceptible, inexplicable even, to the average "artistic" sense; he
had reached this point by a long austere process of discrimination and rejection, the renewed
great refusals of the intelligence which perpetually asks more, which will make no pact with
its self of yesterday, and is never to be beguiled from its purpose by the wiles of the next-best-thing.
Oh, it's a poignant case, but not a common one; for the next-best-thing usually wins...

You see, the worst of Neave's state was the fact of his not being a mere collector, even the
collector raised to his highest pitch of efficiency. The whole thing was blent in him with
poetry--his imagination had romanticized the acquisitive instinct, as the religious feeling
of the Middle Ages turned passion into love. And yet his could never be the abstract enjoyment
of the philosopher who says: "This or that object is really mine because I'm capable of appreciating
it." Neave wanted what he appreciated--wanted it with his touch and his sight as well as with
his imagination.

It was hardly a year afterward that, coming back from a long tour in India, I picked up a London
paper and read the amazing headline: "Mr. Humphrey Neave buys the Daunt collection"... I rubbed
my eyes and read again. Yes, it could only be our old friend Humphrey. "An American living
in Rome ... one of our most discerning collectors"; there was no mistaking the description.
I clapped on my hat and bolted out to see the first dealer I could find; and there I had the
incredible details. Neave had come into a fortune--two or three million dollars, amassed by
an uncle who had a corset-factory, and who had attained wealth as the creator of the Mystic
Super-straight. (Corset-factory sounds odd, by the way, doesn't it? One had fancied that the
corset was a personal, a highly specialized garment, more or less shaped on the form it was
to modify; but, after all, the Tanagras were all made from two or three moulds--and so, I suppose,
are the ladies who wear the Mystic Super-straight.)

The uncle had a son, and Neave had never dreamed of seeing a penny of the money; but the son
died suddenly, and the father followed, leaving a codicil that gave everything to our friend.
Humphrey had to go out to "realize" on the corset-factory; and his description of that ...
Well, he came back with his money in his pocket, and the day he landed old Daunt went to smash.
It all fitted in like a Chinese puzzle. I believe Neave drove straight from Euston to Daunt
House: at any rate, within two months the collection was his, and at a price that made the
trade sit up. Trust old Daunt for that!

I was in Rome the following spring, and you'd better believe I looked him up. A big porter
glared at me from the door of the Palazzo Neave: I had almost to produce my passport to get
in. But that wasn't Neave's fault--the poor fellow was so beset by people clamouring to see
his collection that he had to barricade himself, literally. When I had mounted the state Scalone,
and come on him, at the end of half a dozen echoing saloons, in the farthest, smallest reduit
of the vast suite, I received the same welcome that he used to give us in his little den over
the wine shop.

"Well--so you've got her?" I said. For I'd caught sight of the Diana in passing, against the
bluish blur of an old verdure--just the background for her poised loveliness. Only I rather
wondered why she wasn't in the room where he sat.

He smiled. "Yes, I've got her," he returned, more calmly than I had expected.

"And all the rest of the loot?"

"Yes. I had to buy the lump."

"Had to? But you wanted to, didn't you? You used to say it was your idea of heaven--to stretch
out your hand and have a great ripe sphere of beauty drop into it. I'm quoting your own words,
by the way."

Neave blinked and stroked his seedy moustache. "Oh, yes. I remember the phrase. It's true--it
is the last luxury." He paused, as if seeking a pretext for his lack of warmth. "The thing
that bothered me was having to move. I couldn't cram all the stuff into my old quarters."

"Well, I should say not! This is rather a better setting."

He got up. "Come and take a look round. I want to show you two or three things--new attributions
I've made. I'm doing the catalogue over."

The interest of showing me the things seemed to dispel the vague apathy I had felt in him.
He grew keen again in detailing his redistribution of values, and above all in convicting old
Daunt and his advisers of their repeated aberrations of judgment. "The miracle is that he should
have got such things, knowing as little as he did what he was getting. And the egregious asses
who bought for him were no better, were worse in fact, since they had all sorts of humbugging
wrong reasons for admiring what old Daunt simply coveted because it belonged to some other
rich man."

Never had Neave had so wondrous a field for the exercise of his perfected faculty; and I saw
then how in the real, the great collector's appreciations the keenest scientific perception
is suffused with imaginative sensibility, and how it's to the latter undefinable quality that
in the last resort he trusts himself.

Nevertheless, I still felt the shadow of that hovering apathy, and he knew I felt it, and was
always breaking off to give me reasons for it. For one thing, he wasn't used to his new quarters--hated
their bigness and formality; then the requests to show his things drove him mad. "The women--oh,
the women!" he wailed, and interrupted himself to describe a heavy-footed German Princess who
had marched past his treasures as if she were inspecting a cavalry regiment, applying an unmodulated
Mugneeficent to everything from the engraved gems to the Hercules torso.

"Not that she was half as bad as the other kind," he added, as if with a last effort at optimism.
"The kind who discriminate and say: 'I'm not sure if it's Botticelli or Cellini I mean, but
one of that school, at any rate.' And the worst of all are the ones who know--up to a certain
point: have the schools, and the dates and the jargon pat, and yet wouldn't know a Phidias
if it stood where they hadn't expected it."

He had all my sympathy, poor Neave; yet these were trials inseparable from the collector's
lot, and not always without their secret compensations. Certainly they did not wholly explain
my friend's attitude; and for a moment I wondered if it were due to some strange disillusionment
as to the quality of his treasures. But no! the Daunt collection was almost above criticism;
and as we passed from one object to another I saw there was no mistaking the genuineness of
Neave's pride in his possessions. The ripe sphere of beauty was his, and he had found no flaw
in it as yet...

A year later came the amazing announcement--the Daunt collection was for sale. At first we
all supposed it was a case of weeding out (though how old Daunt would have raged at the thought
of anybody's weeding his collection!) But no--the catalogue corrected that idea. Every stick
and stone was to go under the hammer. The news ran like wildfire from Rome to Berlin, from
Paris to London and New York. Was Neave ruined, then? Wrong again--the dealers nosed that out
in no time. He was simply selling because he chose to sell; and in due time the things came
up at Christie's.

But you may be sure the trade had found an answer to the riddle; and the answer was that, on
close inspection, Neave had found the collection less impeccable than he had supposed. It was
a preposterous answer--but then there was no other. Neave, by this time, was pretty generally
recognized as having the subtlest flair of any collector in Europe, and if he didn't choose
to keep the Daunt collection it could be only because he had reason to think he could do better.

In a flash this report had gone the rounds and the buyers were on their guard. I had run over
to London to see the thing through, and it was the queerest sale I ever was at. Some of the
things held their own, but a lot--and a few of the best among them--went for half their value.
You see, they'd been locked up in old Daunt's house for nearly twenty years, and hardly shown
to any one, so that the whole younger generation of dealers and collectors knew of them only
by hearsay. Then you know the effect of suggestion in such cases. The undefinable sense we
were speaking of is a ticklish instrument, easily thrown out of gear by a sudden fall of temperature;
and the sharpest experts grow shy and self-distrustful when the cold current of depreciation
touches them. The sale was a slaughter--and when I saw the Daunt Diana fall at the wink of
a little third-rate brocanteur from Vienna I turned sick at the folly of my kind.

For my part, I had never believed that Neave had sold the collection because he'd "found it
out"; and within a year my incredulity was justified. As soon as the things were put in circulation
they were known for the marvels they are. There was hardly a poor bit in the lot; and my wonder
grew at Neave's madness. All over Europe, dealers began to be fighting for the spoils; and
all kinds of stuff were palmed off on the unsuspecting as fragments of the Daunt collection!

Meanwhile, what was Neave doing? For a long time I didn't hear, and chance kept me from returning
to Rome. But one day, in Paris, I ran across a dealer who had captured for a song one of the
best Florentine bronzes in the Daunt collection--a marvellous plaquette of Donatello's. I asked
him what had become of it, and he said with a grin: "I sold it the other day," naming a price
that staggered me.

"Ye gods! Who paid you that for it?"

His grin broadened, and he answered: "Neave."

" Neave? Humphrey Neave?"

"Didn't you know he was buying back his things?"

"Nonsense!"

"He is, though. Not in his own name--but he's doing it."

And he was, do you know--and at prices that would have made a sane man shudder! A few weeks
later I ran across his tracks in London, where he was trying to get hold of a Penicaud enamel--another
of his scattered treasures. Then I hunted him down at his hotel, and had it out with him.

"Look here, Neave, what are you up to?"

He wouldn't tell me at first: stared and laughed and denied. But I took him off to dine, and
after dinner, while we smoked, I happened to mention casually that I had a pull over the man
who had the Penicaud--and at that he broke down and confessed.

"Yes, I'm buying them back, Finney--it's true." He laughed nervously, twitching his moustache.
And then he let me have the story.

"You know how I'd hungered and thirsted for the real thing--you quoted my own phrase to me
once, about the 'ripe sphere of beauty.' So when I got my money, and Daunt lost his, almost
at the same moment, I saw the hand of Providence in it. I knew that, even if I'd been younger,
and had more time, I could never hope, nowadays, to form such a collection as that. There was
the ripe sphere, within reach; and I took it. But when I got it, and began to live with it,
I found out my mistake. It was a mariage de convenance--there'd been no wooing, no winning.
Each of my little old bits--the rubbish I chucked out to make room for Daunt's glories--had
its own personal history, the drama of my relation to it, of the discovery, the struggle, the
capture, the first divine moment of possession. There was a romantic secret between us. And
then I had absorbed its beauties one by one, they had become a part of my imagination, they
held me by a hundred threads of far-reaching association. And suddenly I had expected to create
this kind of intense personal tie between myself and a roomful of new cold alien presences--things
staring at me vacantly from the depths of unknown pasts! Can you fancy a more preposterous
hope? Why, my other things, my own things, had wooed me as passionately as I wooed them: there
was a certain little bronze, a little Venus Callipyge, who had drawn me, drawn me, drawn me,
imploring me to rescue her from her unspeakable surroundings in a vulgar bric-a-brac shop at
Biarritz, where she shrank out of sight among sham Sevres and Dutch silver, as one has seen
certain women--rare, shy, exquisite--made almost invisible by the vulgar splendours surrounding
them. Well! that little Venus, who was just a specious seventeenth century attempt at the 'antique,'
but who had penetrated me with her pleading grace, touched me by the easily guessed story of
her obscure, anonymous origin, was more to me imaginatively--yes! more than the cold bought
beauty of the Daunt Diana..."

"The Daunt Diana!" I broke in. "Hold up, Neave--the Daunt Diana?"

He smiled contemptuously. "A professional beauty, my dear fellow--expected every head to be
turned when she came into a room."

"Oh, Neave," I groaned.

"Yes, I know. You're thinking of what we felt that day we first saw her in London. Many a poor
devil has sold his soul as the result of such a first sight! Well, I sold her instead. Do you
want the truth about her? Elle etait bete a pleurer."

He laughed, and stood up with a little shrug of disenchantment.

"And so you're impenitent?" I paused. "And yet you're buying some of the things back?"

Neave laughed again, ironically. "I knew you'd find me out and call me to account. Well, yes:
I'm buying back." He stood before me half sheepish, half defiant. "I'm buying back because
there's nothing else as good in the market. And because I've a queer feeling that, this time,
they'll be mine. But I'm ruining myself at the game!" he confessed.

It was true: Neave was ruining himself. And he's gone on ruining himself ever since, till now
the job's nearly done. Bit by bit, year by year, he has gathered in his scattered treasures,
at higher prices than the dealers ever dreamed of getting. There are fabulous details in the
story of his quest. Now and then I ran across him, and was able to help him recover a fragment;
and it was wonderful to see his delight in the moment of reunion. Finally, about two years
ago, we met in Paris, and he told me he had got back all the important pieces except the Diana.

"The Diana? But you told me you didn't care for her."

"Didn't care?" He leaned across the restaurant table that divided us. "Well, no, in a sense
I didn't. I wanted her to want me, you see; and she didn't then! Whereas now she's crying to
me to come to her. You know where she is?" he broke off.

Yes, I knew: in the centre of Mrs. Willy P. Goldmark's yellow and gold drawing-room, under
a thousand-candle-power chandelier, with reflectors aimed at her from every point of the compass.
I had seen her wincing and shivering there in her outraged nudity at one of the Goldmark "crushes."

"But you can't get her, Neave," I objected.

"No, I can't get her," he said.

Well, last month I was in Rome, for the first time in six or seven years, and of course I looked
about for Neave. The Palazzo Neave was let to some rich Russians, and the splendid new porter
didn't know where the proprietor lived. But I got on his trail easily enough, and it led me
to a strange old place in the Trastevere, an ancient crevassed black palace turned tenement
house, and fluttering with pauper clothes-lines. I found Neave under the leads, in two or three
cold rooms that smelt of the cuisine of all his neighbours: a poor shrunken little figure,
seedier and shabbier than ever, yet more alive than when we had made the tour of his collection
in the Palazzo Neave.

The collection was around him again, not displayed in tall cabinets and on marble tables, but
huddled on shelves, perched on chairs, crammed in corners, putting the gleam of bronze, the
opalescence of old glass, the pale lustre of marble, into all the angles of his low dim rooms.
There they were, the proud presences that had stared at him down the vistas of Daunt House,
and shone in cold transplanted beauty under his own painted cornices: there they were, gathered
in humble promiscuity about his bent shabby figure, like superb wild creatures tamed to become
the familiars of some harmless old wizard.

As we went from bit to bit, as he lifted one piece after another, and held it to the light
of his low windows, I saw in his hands the same tremor of sensation that I had noticed when
he first examined the same objects at Daunt House. All his life was in his finger-tips, and
it seemed to communicate life to the exquisite things he touched. But you'll think me infected
by his mysticism if I tell you they gained new beauty while he held them...

We went the rounds slowly and reverently; and then, when I supposed our inspection was over,
and was turning to take my leave, he opened a door I had not noticed, and showed me into a
slit of a room beyond. It was a mere monastic cell, scarcely large enough for his narrow iron
bed and the chest which probably held his few clothes; but there, in a niche of the bare wall,
facing the foot of the bed--there stood the Daunt Diana.

I gasped at the sight and turned to him; and he looked back at me without speaking.

"In the name of magic, Neave, how did you do it?"

He smiled as if from the depths of some secret rapture. "Call it magic, if you like; but I
ruined myself doing it," he said.

I stared at him in silence, breathless with the madness and the wonder of it; and suddenly,
red to the ears, he flung out his boyish confession. "I lied to you that day in London--the
day I said I didn't care for her. I always cared--always worshipped--always wanted her. But
she wasn't mine then, and I knew it, and she knew it ... and now at last we understand each
other." He looked at me shyly, and then glanced about the bare cold cell. "The setting isn't
worthy of her, I know; she was meant for glories I can't give her; but beautiful things, my
dear Finney, like beautiful spirits, live in houses not made with hands..."

His face shone with extraordinary sweetness as he spoke; and I saw he'd got hold of the secret
we're all after. No, the setting isn't worthy of her, if you like. The rooms are as shabby
and mean as those we used to see him in years ago over the wine shop. I'm not sure they're
not shabbier and meaner. But she rules there at last, she shines and hovers there above him,
and there at night, I doubt not, steals down from her cloud to give him the Latmian kiss.

THE DEBT

I

YOU remember--it's not so long ago--the talk there was about Dredge's "Arrival of the Fittest"?
The talk has subsided, but the book of course remains: stands up, in fact, as the tallest thing
of its kind since--well, I'd almost said since "The Origin of Species."

I'm not wrong, at any rate, in calling it the most important contribution yet made to the development
of the Darwinian theory, or rather to the solution of the awkward problem about which that
theory has had to make such a circuit. Dredge's hypothesis will be contested, may one day be
disproved; but at least it has swept out of the way all previous conjectures, including of
course Lanfear's magnificent attempt; and for our generation of scientific investigators it
will serve as the first safe bridge across a murderous black whirlpool.

It's all very interesting--there are few things more stirring to the imagination than that
sudden projection of the new hypothesis, light as a cobweb and strong as steel, across the
intellectual abyss; but, for an idle observer of human motives, the other, the personal, side
of Dredge's case is even more interesting and arresting.

Personal side? You didn't know there was one? Pictured him simply as a thinking machine, a
highly specialized instrument of precision, the result of a long series of "adaptations," as
his own jargon would put it? Well, I don't wonder--if you've met him. He does give the impression
of being something out of his own laboratory: a delicate scientific instrument that reveals
wonders to the initiated, and is absolutely useless in an ordinary hand.

In his youth it was just the other way. I knew him twenty years ago, as an awkward lout whom
young Archie Lanfear had picked up at college, and brought home for a visit. I happened to
be staying at the Lanfears' when the boys arrived, and I shall never forget Dredge's first
appearance on the scene. You know the Lanfears always lived very simply. That summer they had
gone to Buzzard's Bay, in order that Professor Lanfear might be near the Biological Station
at Wood's Holl, and they were picnicking in a kind of sketchy bungalow without any attempt
at elegance. But Galen Dredge couldn't have been more awe-struck if he'd been suddenly plunged
into a Fifth Avenue ball-room. He nearly knocked his shock head against the low doorway, and
in dodging this peril trod heavily on Mabel Lanfear's foot, and became hopelessly entangled
in her mother's draperies--though how he managed it I never knew, for Mrs. Lanfear's dowdy
muslins ran to no excess of train.

When the Professor himself came in it was ten times worse, and I saw then that Dredge's emotion
was a tribute to the great man's proximity. That made the boy interesting, and I began to watch.
Archie, always enthusiastic but vague, had said: "Oh, he's a tremendous chap--you'll see--"
but I hadn't expected to see quite so clearly. Lanfear's vision, of course, was sharper than
mine; and the next morning he had carried Dredge off to the Biological Station. And that was
the way it began.

Dredge is the son of a Baptist minister. He comes from East Lethe, New York State, and was
working his way through college--waiting at White Mountain hotels in summer--when Archie Lanfear
ran across him. There were eight children in the family, and the mother was an invalid. Dredge
never had a penny from his father after he was fourteen; but his mother wanted him to be a
scholar, and "kept at him," as he put it, in the hope of his going back to "teach school" at
East Lethe. He developed slowly, as the scientific mind generally does, and was still adrift
about himself and his tendencies when Archie took him down to Buzzard's Bay. But he had read
Lanfear's "Utility and Variation," and had always been a patient and curious observer of nature.
And his first meeting with Lanfear explained him to himself. It didn't, however, enable him
to explain himself to others, and for a long time he remained, to all but Lanfear, an object
of incredulity and conjecture.

" Why my husband wants him about--" poor Mrs. Lanfear, the kindest of women, privately lamented
to her friends; for Dredge, at that time--they kept him all summer at the bungalow--had one
of the most encumbering personalities you can imagine. He was as inexpressive as he is to-day,
and yet oddly obtrusive: one of those uncomfortable presences whose silence is an interruption.

The poor Lanfears almost died of him that summer, and the pity of it was that he never suspected
it, but continued to lavish on them a floundering devotion as uncomfortable as the endearments
of a dripping dog--all out of gratitude for the Professor's kindness! He was full, in those
days, of raw enthusiasms, which he forced on any one who would listen when his first shyness
had worn off. You can't picture him spouting sentimental poetry, can you? Yet I've seen him
petrify a whole group of Mrs. Lanfear's callers by suddenly discharging on them, in the strident
drawl of Western New York, "Barbara Frietchie" or "The Queen of the May." His taste in literature
was uniformly bad, but very definite, and far more assertive than his views on biological questions.
In his scientific judgments he showed, even then, a remarkable temperance, a precocious openness
to the opposite view; but in literature he was a furious propagandist, aggressive, disputatious,
and extremely sensitive to adverse opinion.

Lanfear, of course, had been struck from the first by his gift of accurate observation, and
by the fact that his eagerness to learn was offset by his reluctance to conclude. I remember
Lanfear's telling me that he had never known a lad of Dredge's age who gave such promise of
uniting an aptitude for general ideas with the plodding patience of the accumulator of facts.
Of course when Lanfear talked like that of a young biologist his fate was sealed. There could
be no question of Dredge's going back to "teach school" at East Lethe. He must take a course
in biology at Columbia, spend his vacations at the Wood's Holl laboratory, and then, if possible,
go to Germany for a year or two.

All this meant his virtual adoption by the Lanfears. Most of Lanfear's fortune went in helping
young students to a start, and he devoted his heaviest subsidies to Dredge.

"Dredge will be my biggest dividend--you'll see!" he used to say, in the chrysalis days when
poor Galen was known to the world of science only as a perpetual slouching presence in Mrs.
Lanfear's drawing-room. And Dredge, it must be said, took his obligations simply, with that
kind of personal dignity, and quiet sense of his own worth, which in such cases saves the beneficiary
from abjectness. He seemed to trust himself as fully as Lanfear trusted him.

The comic part of it was that his only idea of making what is known as "a return" was to devote
himself to the Professor's family. When I hear pretty women lamenting that they can't coax
Professor Dredge out of his laboratory I remember Mabel Lanfear's cry to me: "If Galen would
only keep away!" When Mabel fell on the ice and broke her leg, Galen walked seven miles in
a blizzard to get a surgeon; but if he did her this service one day in the year, he bored her
by being in the way for the other three hundred and sixty-four. One would have imagined at
that time that he thought his perpetual presence the greatest gift he could bestow; for, except
on the occasion of his fetching the surgeon, I don't remember his taking any other way of expressing
his gratitude.

In love with Mabel? Not a bit! But the queer thing was that he did have a passion in those
days--a blind, hopeless passion for Mrs. Lanfear! Yes: I know what I'm saying. I mean Mrs.
Lanfear, the Professor's wife, poor Mrs. Lanfear, with her tight hair and her loose figure,
her blameless brow and earnest eye-glasses, and her perpetual attitude of mild misapprehension.
I can see Dredge cowering, long and many-jointed, in a diminutive drawing-room chair, one square-toed
shoe coiled round an exposed ankle, his knees clasped in a knot of red knuckles, and his spectacles
perpetually seeking Mrs. Lanfear's eye-glasses. I never knew if the poor lady was aware of
the sentiment she inspired, but her children observed it, and it provoked them to irreverent
mirth. Galen was the predestined butt of Mabel and Archie; and secure in their mother's virtuous
obtuseness, and in her worshipper's timidity, they allowed themselves a latitude of banter
that sometimes turned their audience cold. Dredge meanwhile was going on obstinately with his
work. Now and then he had queer fits of idleness, when he lapsed into a state of sulky inertia
from which even Lanfear's admonitions could not rouse him. Once, just before an examination,
he suddenly went off to the Maine woods for two weeks, came back, and failed to pass. I don't
know if his benefactor ever lost hope; but at times his confidence must have been sorely strained.
The queer part of it was that when Dredge emerged from these eclipses he seemed keener and
more active than ever. His slowly growing intelligence probably needed its periodical pauses
of assimilation; and Lanfear was marvellously patient.

At last Dredge finished his course and went to Germany; and when he came back he was a new
man--was, in fact, the Dredge we all know. He seemed to have shed his blundering, encumbering
personality, and come to life as a disembodied intelligence. His fidelity to the Lanfears was
unchanged; but he showed it negatively, by his discretions and abstentions. I have an idea
that Mabel was less disposed to deride him, might even have been induced to softer sentiments;
but I doubt if Dredge even noticed the change. As for his ex-goddess, he seemed to regard her
as a motherly household divinity, the guardian genius of the darning needle; but on Professor
Lanfear he looked with a deepening reverence. If the rest of the family had diminished in his
eyes, its head had grown even greater.

II

FROM that day Dredge's progress continued steadily. If not always perceptible to the untrained
eye, in Lanfear's sight it never deviated, and the great man began to associate Dredge with
his work, and to lean on him more and more. Lanfear's health was already failing, and in my
confidential talks with him I saw how he counted on Galen Dredge to continue and amplify his
doctrine. If he did not describe the young man as his predestined Huxley, it was because any
such comparison between himself and his great predecessors would have been repugnant to his
taste; but he evidently felt that it would be Dredge's role to reveal him to posterity. And
the young man seemed at that time to take the same view of his calling. When he was not busy
about Lanfear's work he was recording their conversations with the diligence of a biographer
and the accuracy of a naturalist. Any attempt to question or minimize Lanfear's theories roused
in his disciple the only flashes of wrath I have ever seen a scientific discussion provoke
in him. In defending his master he became almost as intemperate as in the early period of his
literary passions.

Such filial dedication must have been all the more precious to Lanfear because, about that
time, it became evident that Archie would never carry on his father's work. He had begun brilliantly,
you may remember, by a little paper on Limulus Polyphemus that attracted a good deal of notice
when it appeared in the Central Blatt; but gradually his zoological ardour yielded to an absorbing
passion for the violin, which was followed by a sudden plunge into physics. At present, after
a side-glance at the drama, I understand he's devoting what is left of his father's money to
archaeological explorations in Asia Minor.

"Archie's got a delightful little mind," Lanfear used to say to me, rather wistfully, "but
it's just a highly polished surface held up to the show as it passes. Dredge's mind takes in
only a bit at a time, but the bit stays, and other bits are joined to it, in a hard mosaic
of fact, of which imagination weaves the pattern. I saw just how it would be years ago, when
my boy used to take my meaning in a flash, and answer me with clever objections, while Galen
disappeared into one of his fathomless silences, and then came to the surface like a dripping
retriever, a long way beyond Archie's objections, and with an answer to them in his mouth."

It was about this time that the crowning satisfaction of Lanfear's career came to him: I mean,
of course, John Weyman's gift to Columbia of the Lanfear Laboratory, and the founding, in connection
with it, of a chair of Experimental Evolution. Weyman had always taken an interest in Lanfear's
work, but no one had supposed that his interest would express itself so magnificently. The
honour came to Lanfear at a time when he was fighting an accumulation of troubles: failing
health, the money difficulties resulting from his irrepressible generosity, his disappointment
about Archie's career, and perhaps also the persistent attacks of the new school of German
zoologists.

"If I hadn't Galen I should feel the game was up," he said to me once, in a fit of half-real,
half-mocking despondency. "But he'll do what I haven't time to do myself, and what my boy can't
do for me."

That meant that he would answer the critics, and triumphantly affirm Lanfear's theory, which
had been rudely shaken, but not displaced.

"A scientific hypothesis lasts till there's something else to put in its place. People who
want to get across a river will use the old bridge till the new one's built. And I don't see
any one who's particularly anxious, in this case, to take a contract for the new one," Lanfear
ended; and I remember answering with a laugh: "Not while Horatius Dredge holds the other."

It was generally known that Lanfear had not long to live, and the Laboratory was hardly opened
before the question of his successor in the chair of Experimental Evolution began to be a matter
of public discussion. It was conceded that whoever followed him ought to be a man of achieved
reputation, some one carrying, as the French say, a considerable "baggage." At the same time,
even Lanfear's critics felt that he should be succeeded by a man who held his views and would
continue his teaching. This was not in itself a difficulty, for German criticism had so far
been mainly negative, and there were plenty of good men who, while they questioned the permanent
validity of Lanfear's conclusions, were yet ready to accept them for their provisional usefulness.
And then there was the added inducement of the Laboratory! The Columbia Professor of Experimental
Evolution has at his disposal the most complete instrument of biological research that modern
ingenuity has yet produced; and it's not only in theology or politics que Paris vaut bien une
messe! There was no trouble about finding a candidate; but the whole thing turned on Lanfear's
decision, since it was tacitly understood that, by Weyman's wish, he was to select his successor.
And what a cry there was when he selected Galen Dredge!

Not in the scientific world, though. The specialists were beginning to know about Dredge. His
remarkable paper on Sexual Dimorphism had been translated into several languages, and a furious
polemic had broken out over it. When a young fellow can get the big men fighting over him his
future is pretty well assured. But Dredge was only thirty-four, and some people seemed to feel
that there was a kind of deflected nepotism in Lanfear's choice.

"If he could choose Dredge he might as well have chosen his own son," I've heard it said; and
the irony was that Archie--will you believe it?--actually thought so himself! But Lanfear had
Weyman behind him, and when the end came the Faculty at once appointed Galen Dredge to the
chair of Experimental Evolution.

For the first two years things went quietly, along accustomed lines. Dredge simply continued
the course which Lanfear's death had interrupted. He lectured well even then, with a persuasive
simplicity surprising in the slow, inarticulate creature one knew him for. But haven't you
noticed that certain personalities reveal themselves only in the more impersonal relations
of life? It's as if they woke only to collective contacts, and the single consciousness were
an unmeaning fragment to them.

If there was anything to criticize in that first part of the course, it was the avoidance of
general ideas, of those brilliant rockets of conjecture that Lanfear's students were used to
seeing him fling across the darkness. I remember once saying this to Archie, who, having recovered
from his absurd disappointment, had returned to his old allegiance to Dredge.

"Oh, that's Galen all over. He doesn't want to jump into the ring till he has a big swishing
knock-down argument in his fist. He'll wait twenty years if he has to. That's his strength:
he's never afraid to wait."

I thought this shrewd of Archie, as well as generous; and I saw the wisdom of Dredge's course.
As Lanfear himself had said, his theory was safe enough till somebody found a more attractive
one; and before that day Dredge would probably have accumulated sufficient proof to crystallize
the fluid hypothesis.

III

THE third winter I was off collecting in Central America, and didn't get back till Dredge's
course had been going for a couple of months. The very day I turned up in town Archie Lanfear
descended on me with a summons from his mother. I was wanted at once at a family council.

I found the Lanfear ladies in a state of incoherent distress, which Archie's own indignation
hardly made more intelligible. But gradually I put together their fragmentary charges, and
learned that Dredge's lectures were turning into an organized assault on his master's doctrine.

"It amounts to just this," Archie said, controlling his women with the masterful gesture of
the weak man. "Galen has simply turned round and betrayed my father."

"Just for a handful of silver he left us," Mabel sobbed in parenthesis, while Mrs. Lanfear
tearfully cited Hamlet.

Archie silenced them again. "The ugly part of it is that he must have had this up his sleeve
for years. He must have known when he was asked to succeed my father what use he meant to make
of his opportunity. What he's doing isn't the result of a hasty conclusion: it means years
of work and preparation."

Archie broke off to explain himself. He had returned from Europe the week before, and had learned
on arriving that Dredge's lectures were stirring the world of science as nothing had stirred
it since Lanfear's "Utility and Variation." And the incredible outrage was that they owed their
sensational effect to the fact of being an attempted refutation of Lanfear's great work.

I own that I was staggered: the case looked ugly, as Archie said. And there was a veil of reticence,
of secrecy, about Dredge, that always kept his conduct in a half-light of uncertainty. Of some
men one would have said off-hand: "It's impossible!" But one couldn't affirm it of him.

Archie hadn't seen him as yet; and Mrs. Lanfear had sent for me because she wished me to be
present at the interview between the two men. The Lanfear ladies had a touching belief in Archie's
violence: they thought him as terrible as a natural force. My own idea was that if there were
any broken bones they wouldn't be Dredge's; but I was too curious as to the outcome not to
be glad to offer my services as moderator.

First, however, I wanted to hear one of the lectures; and I went the next afternoon. The hall
was jammed, and I saw, as soon as Dredge appeared, what increased security and ease the interest
of his public had given him. He had been clear the year before, now he was also eloquent. The
lecture was a remarkable effort: you'll find the gist of it in Chapter VII of "The Arrival
of the Fittest." Archie sat at my side in a white rage; he was too clever not to measure the
extent of the disaster. And I was almost as indignant as he when we went to see Dredge the
next day.

I saw at a glance that the latter suspected nothing; and it was characteristic of him that
he began by questioning me about my finds, and only afterward turned to reproach Archie for
having been back a week without notifying him.

"You know I'm up to my neck in this job. Why in the world didn't you hunt me up before this?"

The question was exasperating, and I could understand Archie's stammer of wrath.

"Hunt you up? Hunt you up? What the deuce are you made of, to ask me such a question instead
of wondering why I'm here now?"

Dredge bent his slow calm scrutiny on his friend's quivering face; then he turned to me.

"What's the matter?" he said simply.

"The matter?" shrieked Archie, his clenched fist hovering excitedly above the desk by which
he stood; but Dredge, with unwonted quickness, caught the fist as it descended.

"Careful--I've got a Kallima in that jar there." He pushed a chair forward, and added quietly:
"Sit down."

Archie, ignoring the gesture, towered pale and avenging in his place; and Dredge, after a moment,
took the chair himself.

"The matter?" Archie reiterated with rising passion. "Are you so lost to all sense of decency
and honour that you can put that question in good faith? Don't you really know what's the matter?"

Dredge smiled slowly. "There are so few things one really knows."

"Oh, damn your scientific hair-splitting! Don't you know you're insulting my father's memory?"

Dredge stared again, turning his spectacles thoughtfully from one of us to the other.

"Oh, that's it, is it? Then you'd better sit down. If you don't see at once it'll take some
time to make you."

Archie burst into an ironic laugh.

"I rather think it will!" he conceded.

"Sit down, Archie," I said, setting the example; and he obeyed, with a gesture that made his
consent a protest.

Dredge seemed to notice nothing beyond the fact that his visitors were seated. He reached for
his pipe, and filled it with the care which the habit of delicate manipulations gave to all
the motions of his long, knotty hands.

"It's about the lectures?" he said.

Archie's answer was a deep scornful breath.

"You've only been back a week, so you've only heard one, I suppose?"

"It was not necessary to hear even that one. You must know the talk they're making. If notoriety
is what you're after--"

"Well, I'm not sorry to make a noise," said Dredge, putting a match to his pipe.

Archie bounded in his chair. "There's no easier way of doing it than to attack a man who can't
answer you!"

Dredge raised a sobering hand. "Hold on. Perhaps you and I don't mean the same thing. Tell
me first what's in your mind."

The request steadied Archie, who turned on Dredge a countenance really eloquent with filial
indignation.

"It's an odd question for you to ask; it makes me wonder what's in yours. Not much thought
of my father, at any rate, or you couldn't stand in his place and use the chance he's given
you to push yourself at his expense."

Dredge received this in silence, puffing slowly at his pipe.

"Is that the way it strikes you?" he asked at length.

"God! It's the way it would strike most men."

He turned to me. "You too?"

"I can see how Archie feels," I said.

"That I'm attacking his father's memory to glorify myself?"

"Well, not precisely: I think what he really feels is that, if your convictions didn't permit
you to continue his father's teaching, you might perhaps have done better to sever your connection
with the Lanfear lectureship."

"Then you and he regard the Lanfear lectureship as having been founded to perpetuate a dogma,
not to try and get at the truth?"

"Certainly not," Archie broke in. "But there's a question of taste, of delicacy, involved in
the case that can't be decided on abstract principles. We know as well as you that my father
meant the laboratory and the lectureship to serve the ends of science, at whatever cost to
his own special convictions; what we feel--and you don't seem to--is that you're the last man
to put them to that use; and I don't want to remind you why."

A slight redness rose through Dredge's sallow skin. "You needn't," he said. "It's because he
pulled me out of my hole, woke me up, made me, shoved me off from the shore. Because he saved
me ten or twenty years of muddled effort, and put me where I am at an age when my best working
years are still ahead of me. Every one knows that's what your father did for me, but I'm the
only person who knows the time and trouble that it took."

It was well said, and I glanced quickly at Archie, who was never closed to generous emotions.

"Well, then--?" he said, flushing also.

"Well, then," Dredge continued, his voice deepening and losing its nasal edge, "I had to pay
him back, didn't I?"

The sudden drop flung Archie back on his prepared attitude of irony. "It would be the natural
inference--with most men."

"Just so. And I'm not so very different. I knew your father wanted a successor--some one who'd
try and tie up the loose ends. And I took the lectureship with that object."

"And you're using it to tear the whole fabric to pieces!"

Dredge paused to re-light his pipe. "Looks that way," he conceded. "This year anyhow."

" This year--?" Archie gasped at him.

"Yes. When I took up the job I saw it just as your father left it. Or rather, I didn't see
any other way of going on with it. The change came gradually, as I worked."

"Gradually? So that you had time to look round you, to know where you were, to see you were
fatally committed to undoing the work he had done?"

"Oh, yes--I had time," Dredge conceded.

"And yet you kept the chair and went on with the course?"

Dredge refilled his pipe, and then turned in his seat so that he looked squarely at Archie.

"What would your father have done in my place?" he asked.

"In your place--?"

"Yes: supposing he'd found out the things I've found out in the last year or two. You'll see
what they are, and how much they count, if you'll run over the report of the lectures. If your
father'd been alive he might have come across the same facts just as easily."

There was a silence which Archie at last broke by saying: "But he didn't, and you did. There's
the difference."

"The difference? What difference? Would your father have suppressed the facts if he'd found
them? It's you who insult his memory by implying it! And if I'd brought them to him, would
he have used his hold over me to get me to suppress them?"

"Certainly not. But can't you see it's his death that makes the difference? He's not here to
defend his case."

Dredge laughed, but not unkindly. "My dear Archie, your father wasn't one of the kind who bother
to defend their case. Men like him are the masters, not the servants, of their theories. They
respect an idea only as long as it's of use to them; when it's usefulness ends they chuck it
out. And that's what your father would have done."

Archie reddened. "Don't you assume a good deal in taking it for granted that he would have
had to in this particular case?"

Dredge reflected. Yes: I was going too far. Each of us can only answer for himself. But to
my mind your father's theory is refuted."

"And you don't hesitate to be the man to do it?"

"Should I have been of any use if I had? And did your father ever ask anything of me but to
be of as much use as I could?"

It was Archie's turn to reflect. "No. That was what he always wanted, of course."

"That's the way I've always felt. The first day he took me away from East Lethe I knew the
debt I was piling up against him, and I never had any doubt as to how I'd pay it, or how he'd
want it paid. He didn't pick me out and train me for any object but to carry on the light.
Do you suppose he'd have wanted me to snuff it out because it happened to light up a fact he
didn't fancy? I'm using his oil to feed my torch with: yes, but it isn't really his torch or
mine, or his oil or mine: they belong to each of us till we drop and hand them on."

Archie turned a sobered glance on him. "I see your point. But if the job had to be done I don't
see that you need have done it from his chair."

"There's where we differ. If I did it at all I had to do it in the best way, and with all the
authority his backing gave me. If I owe your father anything, I owe him that. It would have
made him sick to see the job badly done. And don't you see that the way to honour him, and
show what he's done for science, was to spare no advantage in my attack on him--that I'm proving
the strength of his position by the desperateness of my assault?" Dredge paused and squared
his lounging shoulders. "After all," he added, "he's not down yet, and if I leave him standing
I guess it'll be some time before anybody else cares to tackle him."

There was a silence between the two men; then Dredge continued in a lighter tone: "There's
one thing, though, that we're both in danger of forgetting: and that is how little, in the
long run, it all counts either way." He smiled a little at Archie's outraged gesture. "The
most we can any of us do--even by such a magnificent effort as your father's--is to turn the
great marching army a hair's breadth nearer what seems to us the right direction; if one of
us drops out, here and there, the loss of headway's hardly perceptible. And that's what I'm
coming to now."

He rose from his seat, and walked across to the hearth; then, cautiously resting his shoulder-blades
against the mantel-shelf jammed with miscellaneous specimens, he bent his musing spectacles
on Archie.

"Your father would have understood why I've done, what I'm doing; but that's no reason why
the rest of you should. And I rather think it's the rest of you who've suffered most from me.
He always knew what I was there for, and that must have been some comfort even when I was most
in the way; but I was just an ordinary nuisance to you and your mother and Mabel. You were
all too kind to let me see it at the time, but I've seen it since, and it makes me feel that,
after all, the settling of this matter lies with you. If it hurts you to have me go on with
my examination of your father's theory, I'm ready to drop the lectures to-morrow, and trust
to the Lanfear Laboratory to breed up a young chap who'll knock us both out in time. You've
only got to say the word."

There was a pause while Dredge turned and laid his extinguished pipe carefully between a jar
of embryo sea-urchins and a colony of regenerating planarians.

Then Archie rose and held out his hand.

"No," he said simply; "go on."

FULL CIRCLE

I

GEOFFREY BETTON woke rather late--so late that the winter sunlight sliding across his warm
red carpet struck his eyes as he turned on the pillow.

Strett, the valet, had been in, drawn the bath in the adjoining dressing-room, placed the crystal
and silver cigarette-box at his side, put a match to the fire, and thrown open the windows
to the bright morning air. It brought in, on the glitter of sun, all the shrill crisp morning
noises--those piercing notes of the American thoroughfare that seem to take a sharper vibration
from the clearness of the medium through which they pass.

Betton raised himself languidly. That was the voice of Fifth Avenue below his windows. He remembered
that when he moved into his rooms eighteen months before, the sound had been like music to
him: the complex orchestration to which the tune of his new life was set. Now it filled him
with horror and weariness, since it had become the symbol of the hurry and noise of that new
life. He had been far less hurried in the old days when he had to be up by seven, and down
at the office sharp at nine. Now that he got up when he chose, and his life had no fixed framework
of duties, the hours hunted him like a pack of blood-hounds.

He dropped back on his pillows with a groan. Yes--not a year ago there had been a positively
sensuous joy in getting out of bed, feeling under his bare feet the softness of the sunlit
carpet, and entering the shining tiled sanctuary where his great porcelain bath proffered its
renovating flood. But then a year ago he could still call up the horror of the communal plunge
at his earlier lodgings: the listening for other bathers, the dodging of shrouded ladies in
"crimping"-pins, the cold wait on the landing, the reluctant descent into a blotchy tin bath,
and the effort to identify one's soap and nail-brush among the promiscuous implements of ablution.
That memory had faded now, and Betton saw only the dark hours to which his blue and white temple
of refreshment formed a kind of glittering antechamber. For after his bath came his breakfast,
and on the breakfast-tray his letters. His letters!

He remembered--and that memory had not faded!--the thrill with which he had opened the first
missive in a strange feminine hand: the letter beginning: "I wonder if you'll mind an unknown
reader's telling you all that your book has been to her?"

 Mind? Ye gods, he minded now! For more than a year after the
publication of "Diadems and Faggots" the letters, the inane
indiscriminate letters of condemnation, of criticism, of
interrogation, had poured in on him by every post. Hundreds of
unknown readers had told him with unsparing detail all that his book
had been to them. And the wonder of it was, when all was said and
done, that it had really been so little--that when their thick broth
of praise was strained through the author's anxious vanity there
remained to him so small a sediment of definite specific
understanding! No--it was always the same thing, over and over and
over again--the same vague gush of adjectives, the same incorrigible
tendency to estimate his effort according to each writer's personal
preferences, instead of regarding it as a work of art, a thing to be
measured by objective standards!

He smiled to think how little, at first, he had felt the vanity of it all. He had found a savour
even in the grosser evidences of popularity: the advertisements of his book, the daily shower
of "clippings," the sense that, when he entered a restaurant or a theatre, people nudged each
other and said "That's Betton." Yes, the publicity had been sweet to him--at first. He had
been touched by the sympathy of his fellow-men: had thought indulgently of the world, as a
better place than the failures and the dyspeptics would acknowledge. And then his success began
to submerge him: he gasped under the thickening shower of letters. His admirers were really
unappeasable. And they wanted him to do such preposterous things--to give lectures, to head
movements, to be tendered receptions, to speak at banquets, to address mothers, to plead for
orphans, to go up in balloons, to lead the struggle for sterilized milk. They wanted his photograph
for literary supplements, his autograph for charity bazaars, his name on committees, literary,
educational, and social; above all, they wanted his opinion on everything: on Christianity,
Buddhism, tight lacing, the drug-habit, democratic government, female suffrage and love. Perhaps
the chief benefit of this demand was his incidentally learning from it how few opinions he
really had: the only one that remained with him was a rooted horror of all forms of correspondence.
He had been unutterably thankful when the letters began to fall off.

"Diadems and Faggots" was now two years old, and the moment was at hand when its author might
have counted on regaining the blessed shelter of oblivion--if only he had not written another
book! For it was the worst part of his plight that his first success had goaded him to the
perpetration of this particular folly--that one of the incentives (hideous thought!) to his
new work had been the desire to extend and perpetuate his popularity. And this very week the
book was to come out, and the letters, the cursed letters, would begin again!

Wistfully, almost plaintively, he contemplated the breakfast-tray with which Strett presently
appeared. It bore only two notes and the morning journals, but he knew that within the week
it would groan under its epistolary burden. The very newspapers flung the fact at him as he
opened them.

READY ON MONDAY.

GEOFFREY BETTON'S NEW NOVEL

ABUNDANCE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "DIADEMS AND FAGGOTS."

FIRST EDITION OF ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND ALREADY SOLD OUT.

ORDER NOW.

A hundred and fifty thousand volumes! And an average of three readers to each! Half a million
of people would be reading him within a week, and every one of them would write to him, and
their friends and relations would write too. He laid down the paper with a shudder.

The two notes looked harmless enough, and the calligraphy of one was vaguely familiar. He opened
the envelope and looked at the signature: Duncan Vyse. He had not seen the name in years--what
on earth could Duncan Vyse have to say? He ran over the page and dropped it with a wondering
exclamation, which the watchful Strett, re-entering, met by a tentative "Yes, sir?"

"Nothing. Yes--that is--" Betton picked up the note. "There's a gentleman, a Mr. Vyse, coming
to see me at ten."

Strett glanced at the clock. "Yes, sir. You'll remember that ten was the hour you appointed
for the secretaries to call, sir."

Betton nodded. "I'll see Mr. Vyse first. My clothes, please."

As he got into them, in the state of irritable hurry that had become almost chronic with him,
he continued to think about Duncan Vyse. They had seen a lot of each other for the few years
after both had left Harvard: the hard happy years when Betton had been grinding at his business
and Vyse--poor devil!--trying to write. The novelist recalled his friend's attempts with a
smile; then the memory of one small volume came back to him. It was a novel: "The Lifted Lamp."
There was stuff in that, certainly. He remembered Vyse's tossing it down on his table with
a gesture of despair when it came back from the last publisher. Betton, taking it up indifferently,
had sat riveted till daylight. When he ended, the impression was so strong that he said to
himself: "I'll tell Apthorn about it--I'll go and see him to-morrow." His own secret literary
yearnings gave him a passionate desire to champion Vyse, to see him triumph over the ignorance
and timidity of the publishers. Apthorn was the youngest of the guild, still capable of opinions
and the courage of them, a personal friend of Betton's, and, as it happened, the man afterward
to become known as the privileged publisher of "Diadems and Faggots." Unluckily the next day
something unexpected turned up, and Betton forgot about Vyse and his manuscript. He continued
to forget for a month, and then came a note from Vyse, who was ill, and wrote to ask what his
friend had done. Betton did not like to say "I've done nothing," so he left the note unanswered,
and vowed again: "I'll see Apthorn."

The following day he was called to the West on business, and was gone a month. When he came
back, there was another note from Vyse, who was still ill, and desperately hard up. "I'll take
anything for the book, if they'll advance me two hundred dollars." Betton, full of compunction,
would gladly have advanced the sum himself; but he was hard up too, and could only swear inwardly:
"I'll write to Apthorn." Then he glanced again at the manuscript, and reflected: "No--there
are things in it that need explaining. I'd better see him."

Once he went so far as to telephone Apthorn, but the publisher was out. Then he finally and
completely forgot.

One Sunday he went out of town, and on his return, rummaging among the papers on his desk,
he missed "The Lifted Lamp," which had been gathering dust there for half a year. What the
deuce could have become of it? Betton spent a feverish hour in vainly increasing the disorder
of his documents, and then bethought himself of calling the maid-servant, who first indignantly
denied having touched anything ("I can see that's true from the dust," Betton scathingly interjected),
and then mentioned with hauteur that a young lady had called in his absence and asked to be
allowed to get a book.

"A lady? Did you let her come up?"

"She said somebody'd sent her."

Vyse, of course--Vyse had sent her for his manuscript! He was always mixed up with some woman,
and it was just like him to send the girl of the moment to Betton's lodgings, with instructions
to force the door in his absence. Vyse had never been remarkable for delicacy. Betton, furious,
glanced over his table to see if any of his own effects were missing--one couldn't tell, with
the company Vyse kept!--and then dismissed the matter from his mind, with a vague sense of
magnanimity in doing so. He felt himself exonerated by Vyse's conduct.

The sense of magnanimity was still uppermost when the valet opened the door to announce "Mr.
Vyse," and Betton, a moment later, crossed the threshold of his pleasant library.

His first thought was that the man facing him from the hearth-rug was the very Duncan Vyse
of old: small, starved, bleached-looking, with the same sidelong movements, the same queer
air of anaemic truculence. Only he had grown shabbier, and bald.

Betton held out a hospitable hand.

"This is a good surprise! Glad you looked me up, my dear fellow."

Vyse's palm was damp and bony: he had always had a disagreeable hand.

"You got my note? You know what I've come for?" he said.

"About the secretaryship? (Sit down.) Is that really serious?"

Betton lowered himself luxuriously into one of his vast Maple arm-chairs. He had grown stouter
in the last year, and the cushion behind him fitted comfortably into the crease of his nape.
As he leaned back he caught sight of his image in the mirror between the windows, and reflected
uneasily that Vyse would not find him unchanged.

"Serious?" Vyse rejoined. "Why not? Aren't you?"

"Oh, perfectly." Betton laughed apologetically. "Only--well, the fact is, you may not understand
what rubbish a secretary of mine would have to deal with. In advertising for one I never imagined--I
didn't aspire to any one above the ordinary hack."

"I'm the ordinary hack," said Vyse drily.

Betton's affable gesture protested. "My dear fellow--. You see it's not business--what I'm
in now," he continued with a laugh.

Vyse's thin lips seemed to form a noiseless " Isn't it?" which they instantly transposed into
the audibly reply: "I inferred from your advertisement that you want some one to relieve you
in your literary work. Dictation, short-hand--that kind of thing?"

"Well, no: not that either. I type my own things. What I'm looking for is somebody who won't
be above tackling my correspondence."

Vyse looked slightly surprised. "I should be glad of the job," he then said.

Betton began to feel a vague embarrassment. He had supposed that such a proposal would be instantly
rejected. "It would be only for an hour or two a day--if you're doing any writing of your own?"
he threw out interrogatively.

"No. I've given all that up. I'm in an office now--business. But it doesn't take all my time,
or pay enough to keep me alive."

"In that case, my dear fellow--if you could come every morning; but it's mostly awful bosh,
you know," Betton again broke off, with growing awkwardness.

Vyse glanced at him humorously. "What you want me to write?"

"Well, that depends--" Betton sketched the obligatory smile. "But I was thinking of the letters
you'll have to answer. Letters about my books, you know--I've another one appearing next week.
And I want to be beforehand now--dam the flood before it swamps me. Have you any idea of the
deluge of stuff that people write to a successful novelist?"

As Betton spoke, he saw a tinge of red on Vyse's thin cheek, and his own reflected it in a
richer glow of shame. "I mean--I mean--" he stammered helplessly.

"No, I haven't," said Vyse; "but it will be awfully jolly finding out."

There was a pause, groping and desperate on Betton's part, sardonically calm on his visitor's.

"You--you've given up writing altogether?" Betton continued.

"Yes; we've changed places, as it were." Vyse paused. "But about these letters--you dictate
the answers?"

"Lord, no! That's the reason why I said I wanted somebody--er--well used to writing. I don't
want to have anything to do with them--not a thing! You'll have to answer them as if they were
written to you--" Betton pulled himself up again, and rising in confusion jerked open one of
the drawers of his writing-table.

"Here--this kind of rubbish," he said, tossing a packet of letters onto Vyse's knee.

"Oh--you keep them, do you?" said Vyse simply.

"I--well--some of them; a few of the funniest only."

Vyse slipped off the band and began to open the letters. While he was glancing over them Betton
again caught his own reflection in the glass, and asked himself what impression he had made
on his visitor. It occurred to him for the first time that his high-coloured well-fed person
presented the image of commercial rather than of intellectual achievement. He did not look
like his own idea of the author of "Diadems and Faggots"--and he wondered why.

Vyse laid the letters aside. "I think I can do it--if you'll give me a notion of the tone I'm
to take."

"The tone?"

"Yes--that is, if I'm to sign your name."

"Oh, of course: I expect you to sign for me. As for the tone, say just what you'd--well, say
all you can without encouraging them to answer."

Vyse rose from his seat. "I could submit a few specimens," he suggested.

"Oh, as to that--you always wrote better than I do," said Betton handsomely.

"I've never had this kind of thing to write. When do you wish me to begin?" Vyse enquired,
ignoring the tribute.

"The book's out on Monday. The deluge will begin about three days after. Will you turn up on
Thursday at this hour?" Betton held his hand out with real heartiness. "It was great luck for
me, your striking that advertisement. Don't be too harsh with my correspondents--I owe them
something for having brought us together."

II

THE deluge began punctually on the Thursday, and Vyse, arriving as punctually, had an impressive
pile of letters to attack. Betton, on his way to the Park for a ride, came into the library,
smoking the cigarette of indolence, to look over his secretary's shoulder.

"How many of 'em? Twenty? Good Lord! It's going to be worse than 'Diadems.' I've just had my
first quiet breakfast in two years--time to read the papers and loaf. How I used to dread the
sight of my letter-box! Now I sha'n't know I have one."

He leaned over Vyse's chair, and the secretary handed him a letter.

"Here's rather an exceptional one--lady, evidently. I thought you might want to answer it yourself--"

"Exceptional?" Betton ran over the mauve pages and tossed them down. "Why, my dear man, I get
hundreds like that. You'll have to be pretty short with her, or she'll send her photograph."

He clapped Vyse on the shoulder and turned away, humming a tune. "Stay to luncheon," he called
back gaily from the threshold.

After luncheon Vyse insisted on showing a few of his answers to the first batch of letters.
"If I've struck the note I won't bother you again," he urged; and Betton groaningly consented.

"My dear fellow, they're beautiful--too beautiful. I'll be let in for a correspondence with
every one of these people."

Vyse, at this, meditated for a while above a blank sheet. "All right--how's this?" he said,
after another interval of rapid writing.

Betton glanced over the page. "By George--by George! Won't she see it?" he exulted, between
fear and rapture.

"It's wonderful how little people see," said Vyse reassuringly.

The letters continued to pour in for several weeks after the appearance of "Abundance." For
five or six blissful days Betton did not even have his mail brought to him, trusting to Vyse
to single out his personal correspondence, and to deal with the rest according to their agreement.
During those days he luxuriated in a sense of wild and lawless freedom; then, gradually, he
began to feel the need of fresh restraints to break, and learned that the zest of liberty lies
in the escape from specific obligations. At first he was conscious only of a vague hunger,
but in time the craving resolved into a shame-faced desire to see his letters.

"After all, I hated them only because I had to answer them"; and he told Vyse carelessly that
he wished all his letters submitted to him before the secretary answered them.

At first he pushed aside those beginning: "I have just laid down 'Abundance' after a third
reading," or: "Every day for the last month I have been telephoning my bookseller to know when
your novel would be out." But little by little the freshness of his interest revived, and even
this stereotyped homage began to arrest his eye. At last a day came when he read all the letters,
from the first word to the last, as he had done when "Diadems and Faggots" appeared. It was
really a pleasure to read them, now that he was relieved of the burden of replying: his new
relation to his correspondents had the glow of a love-affair unchilled by the contingency of
marriage.

One day it struck him that the letters were coming in more slowly and in smaller numbers. Certainly
there had been more of a rush when "Diadems and Faggots" came out. Betton began to wonder if
Vyse were exercising an unauthorized discrimination, and keeping back the communications he
deemed least important. This sudden conjecture carried the novelist straight to his library,
where he found Vyse bending over the writing-table with his usual inscrutable pale smile. But
once there, Betton hardly knew how to frame his question, and blundered into an enquiry for
a missing invitation.

"There's a note--a personal note--I ought to have had this morning. Sure you haven't kept it
back by mistake among the others?"

Vyse laid down his pen. "The others? But I never keep back any."

Betton had foreseen the answer. "Not even the worst twaddle about my book?" he suggested lightly,
pushing the papers about.

"Nothing. I understood you wanted to go over them all first."

"Well, perhaps it's safer," Betton conceded, as if the idea were new to him. With an embarrassed
hand he continued to turn over the letters at Vyse's elbow.

"Those are yesterday's," said the secretary; "here are to-day's," he added, pointing to a meagre
trio.

"H'm--only these?" Betton took them and looked them over lingeringly. "I don't see what the
deuce that chap means about the first part of 'Abundance' 'certainly justifying the title'--do
you?"

Vyse was silent, and the novelist continued irritably: "Damned cheek, his writing, if he doesn't
like the book. Who cares what he thinks about it, anyhow?"

And his morning ride was embittered by the discovery that it was unexpectedly disagreeable
to have Vyse read any letters which did not express unqualified praise of his books. He began
to fancy there was a latent rancour, a kind of baffled sneer, under Vyse's manner; and he decided
to return to the practice of having his mail brought straight to his room. In that way he could
edit the letters before his secretary saw them.

Vyse made no comment on the change, and Betton was reduced to wondering whether his imperturbable
composure were the mask of complete indifference or of a watchful jealousy. The latter view
being more agreeable to his employer's self-esteem, the next step was to conclude that Vyse
had not forgotten the episode of "The Lifted Lamp," and would naturally take a vindictive joy
in any unfavourable judgments passed on his rival's work. This did not simplify the situation,
for there was no denying that unfavourable criticisms preponderated in Betton's correspondence.
"Abundance" was neither meeting with the unrestricted welcome of "Diadems and Faggots," nor
enjoying the alternative of an animated controversy: it was simply found dull, and its readers
said so in language not too tactfully tempered by regretful comparisons with its predecessor.
To withhold unfavourable comments from Vyse was, therefore, to make it appear that correspondence
about the book had died out; and its author, mindful of his unguarded predictions, found this
even more embarrassing. The simplest solution would be to get rid of Vyse; and to this end
Betton began to address his energies.

One evening, finding himself unexpectedly disengaged, he asked Vyse to dine; it had occurred
to him that, in the course of an after-dinner chat, he might delicately hint his feeling that
the work he had offered his friend was unworthy so accomplished a hand.

Vyse surprised him by a momentary hesitation. "I may not have time to dress."

Betton stared. "What's the odds? We'll dine here--and as late as you like."

Vyse thanked him, and appeared, punctually at eight, in all the shabbiness of his daily wear.
He looked paler and more shyly truculent than usual, and Betton, from the height of his florid
stature, said to himself, with the sudden professional instinct for "type": "He might be an
agent of something--a chap who carries deadly secrets."

Vyse, it was to appear, did carry a deadly secret; but one less perilous to society than to
himself. He was simply poor--inexcusably, irremediably poor. Everything failed him, had always
failed him: whatever he put his hand to went to bits.

This was the confession that, reluctantly, yet with a kind of white-lipped bravado, he flung
at Betton in answer to the latter's tentative suggestion that, really, the letter-answering
job wasn't worth bothering him with--a thing that any type-writer could do.

"If you mean you're paying me more than it's worth, I'll take less," Vyse rushed out after a pause.

"Oh, my dear fellow--" Betton protested, flushing.

"What do you mean, then? Don't I answer the letters as you want them answered?"

Betton anxiously stroked his silken ankle. "You do it beautifully, too beautifully. I mean
what I say: the work's not worthy of you. I'm ashamed to ask you--"

"Oh, hang shame," Vyse interrupted. "Do you know why I said I shouldn't have time to dress
to-night? Because I haven't any evening clothes. As a matter of fact, I haven't much but the
clothes I stand in. One thing after another's gone against me; all the infernal ingenuities
of chance. It's been a slow Chinese torture, the kind where they keep you alive to have more
fun killing you." He straightened himself with a sudden blush. "Oh, I'm all right now--getting
on capitally. But I'm still walking rather a narrow plank; and if I do your work well enough--if
I take your idea--"

Betton stared into the fire without answering. He knew next to nothing of Vyse's history, of
the mischance or mis-management that had brought him, with his brains and his training, to
so unlikely a pass. But a pang of compunction shot through him as he remembered the manuscript
of "The Lifted Lamp" gathering dust on his table for half a year.

"Not that it would have made any earthly difference--since he's evidently never been able to
get the thing published." But this reflection did not wholly console Betton, and he found it
impossible, at the moment, to tell Vyse that his services were not needed.

III

DURING the ensuing weeks the letters grew fewer and fewer, and Betton foresaw the approach
of the fatal day when his secretary, in common decency, would have to say: "I can't draw my
pay for doing nothing."

What a triumph for Vyse!

The thought was intolerable, and Betton cursed his weakness in not having dismissed the fellow
before such a possibility arose.

"If I tell him I've no use for him now, he'll see straight through it, of course;--and then,
hang it, he looks so poor!"

This consideration came after the other, but Betton, in rearranging them, put it first, because
he thought it looked better there, and also because he immediately perceived its value in justifying
a plan of action that was beginning to take shape in his mind.

"Poor devil, I'm damned if I don't do it for him!" said Betton, sitting down at his desk.

Three or four days later he sent word to Vyse that he didn't care to go over the letters any
longer, and that they would once more be carried directly to the library.

The next time he lounged in, on his way to his morning ride, he found his secretary's pen in
active motion.

"A lot to-day," Vyse told him cheerfully.

His tone irritated Betton: it had the inane optimism of the physician reassuring a discouraged
patient.

"Oh, Lord--I thought it was almost over," groaned the novelist.

"No: they've just got their second wind. Here's one from a Chicago publisher--never heard the
name--offering you thirty per cent. on your next novel, with an advance royalty of twenty thousand.
And here's a chap who wants to syndicate it for a bunch of Sunday papers: big offer, too. That's
from Ann Arbor. And this--oh, this one's funny!"

He held up a small scented sheet to Betton, who made no movement to receive it.

"Funny? Why's it funny?" he growled.

"Well, it's from a girl--a lady--and she thinks she's the only person who understands 'Abundance'--has
the clue to it. Says she's never seen a book so misrepresented by the critics--"

"Ha, ha! That is good!" Betton agreed with too loud a laugh.

"This one's from a lady, too--married woman. Says she's misunderstood, and would like to correspond."

"Oh, Lord," said Betton.--"What are you looking at?" he added sharply, as Vyse continued to
bend his blinking gaze on the letters.

"I was only thinking I'd never seen such short letters from women. Neither one fills the first
page."

"Well, what of that?" queried Betton.

Vyse reflected. "I'd like to meet a woman like that," he said wearily; and Betton laughed again.

The letters continued to pour in, and there could be no farther question of dispensing with
Vyse's services. But one morning, about three weeks later, the latter asked for a word with
his employer, and Betton, on entering the library, found his secretary with half a dozen documents
spread out before him.

"What's up?" queried Betton, with a touch of impatience.

Vyse was attentively scanning the outspread letters.

"I don't know: can't make out." His voice had a faint note of embarrassment. "Do you remember
a note signed Hester Macklin that came three or four weeks ago? Married--misunderstood--Western
army post--wanted to correspond?"

Betton seemed to grope among his memories; then he assented vaguely.

"A short note," Vyse went on: "the whole story in half a page. The shortness struck me so much--and
the directness--that I wrote her: wrote in my own name, I mean."

"In your own name?" Betton stood amazed; then he broke into a groan.

"Good Lord, Vyse--you're incorrigible!"

The secretary pulled his thin moustache with a nervous laugh. "If you mean I'm an ass, you're
right. Look here." He held out an envelope stamped with the words: "Dead Letter Office." "My
effusion has come back to me marked 'unknown.' There's no such person at the address she gave you."

Betton seemed for an instant to share his secretary's embarrassment; then he burst into an
uproarious laugh.

"Hoax, was it? That's rough on you, old fellow!"

Vyse shrugged his shoulders. "Yes; but the interesting question is--why on earth didn't your
answer come back, too?"

"My answer?"

"The official one--the one I wrote in your name. If she's unknown, what's become of that?"

Betton stared at him with eyes wrinkled by amusement. "Perhaps she hadn't disappeared then."

Vyse disregarded the conjecture. "Look here--I believe all these letters are a hoax," he broke out.

Betton stared at him with a face that turned slowly red and angry. "What are you talking about?
All what letters?"

"These I've spread out here: I've been comparing them. And I believe they're all written by
one man."

Burton's redness turned to a purple that made his ruddy moustache seem pale. "What the devil
are you driving at?" he asked.

"Well, just look at it," Vyse persisted, still bent above the letters. "I've been studying
them carefully--those that have come within the last two or three weeks--and there's a queer
likeness in the writing of some of them. The g's are all like corkscrews. And the same phrases
keep recurring--the Ann Arbor news-agent uses the same expressions as the President of the
Girls' College at Euphorbia, Maine."

Betton laughed. "Aren't the critics always groaning over the shrinkage of the national vocabulary?
Of course we all use the same expressions."

"Yes," said Vyse obstinately. "But how about using the same g's?"

Betton laughed again, but Vyse continued without heeding him: "Look here, Betton--could Strett
have written them?"

"Strett?" Betton roared. " Strett?" He threw himself into his arm-chair to shake out his mirth
at greater ease.

"I'll tell you why. Strett always posts all my answers. He comes in for them every day before
I leave. He posted the letter to the misunderstood party--the letter from you that the Dead
Letter Office didn't return. I posted my own letter to her; and that came back."

A measurable silence followed the emission of this ingenious conjecture; then Betton observed
with gentle irony: "Extremely neat. And of course it's no business of yours to supply any valid
motive for this remarkable attention on my valet's part."

Vyse cast on him a slanting glance.

"If you've found that human conduct's generally based on valid motives--!"

"Well, outside of mad-houses it's supposed to be not quite incalculable."

Vyse had an odd smile under his thin moustache. "Every house is a mad-house at some time or
another."

Betton rose with a careless shake of the shoulders. "This one will be if I talk to you much
longer," he said, moving away with a laugh.

IV

BETTON did not for a moment believe that Vyse suspected the valet of having written the letters.

"Why the devil don't he say out what he thinks? He was always a tortuous chap," he grumbled
inwardly.

The sense of being held under the lens of Vyse's mute scrutiny became more and more exasperating.
Betton, by this time, had squared his shoulders to the fact that "Abundance" was a failure
with the public: a confessed and glaring failure. The press told him so openly, and his friends
emphasized the fact by their circumlocutions and evasions. Betton minded it a good deal more
than he had expected, but not nearly as much as he minded Vyse's knowing it. That remained
the central twinge in his diffused discomfort. And the problem of getting rid of his secretary
once more engaged him.

He had set aside all sentimental pretexts for retaining Vyse; but a practical argument replaced
them. "If I ship him now he'll think it's because I'm ashamed to have him see that I'm not
getting any more letters."

For the letters had ceased again, almost abruptly, since Vyse had hazarded the conjecture that
they were the product of Strett's devoted pen. Betton had reverted only once to the subject--to
ask ironically, a day or two later: "Is Strett writing to me as much as ever?"--and, on Vyse's
replying with a neutral head-shake, had added with a laugh: "If you suspect him you might as
well think I write the letters myself!"

"There are very few to-day," said Vyse, with his irritating evasiveness; and Betton rejoined
squarely: "Oh, they'll stop soon. The book's a failure."

A few mornings later he felt a rush of shame at his own tergiversations, and stalked into the
library with Vyse's sentence on his tongue.

Vyse started back with one of his anaemic blushes. "I was hoping you'd be in. I wanted to speak
to you. There've been no letters the last day or two," he explained.

Betton drew a quick breath of relief. The man had some sense of decency, then! He meant to
dismiss himself.

"I told you so, my dear fellow; the book's a flat failure," he said, almost gaily.

Vyse made a deprecating gesture. "I don't know that I should regard the absence of letters
as the ultimate test. But I wanted to ask you if there isn't something else I can do on the
days when there's no writing." He turned his glance toward the book-lined walls. "Don't you
want your library catalogued?" he asked insidiously.

"Had it done last year, thanks." Betton glanced away from Vyse's face. It was piteous, how
he needed the job!

"I see. ... Of course this is just a temporary lull in the letters. They'll begin again--as
they did before. The people who read carefully read slowly--you haven't heard yet what they think."

Betton felt a rush of puerile joy at the suggestion. Actually, he hadn't thought of that!

"There was a big second crop after 'Diadems and Faggots,'" he mused aloud.

"Of course. Wait and see," said Vyse confidently.

The letters in fact began again--more gradually and in smaller numbers. But their quality was
different, as Vyse had predicted. And in two cases Betton's correspondents, not content to
compress into one rapid communication the thoughts inspired by his work, developed their views
in a succession of really remarkable letters. One of the writers was a professor in a Western
college; the other was a girl in Florida. In their language, their point of view, their reasons
for appreciating "Abundance," they differed almost diametrically; but this only made the unanimity
of their approval the more striking. The rush of correspondence evoked by Betton's earlier
novel had produced nothing so personal, so exceptional as these communications. He had gulped
the praise of "Diadems and Faggots" as undiscriminatingly as it was offered; now he knew for
the first time the subtler pleasures of the palate. He tried to feign indifference, even to
himself; and to Vyse he made no sign. But gradually he felt a desire to know what his secretary
thought of the letters, and, above all, what he was saying in reply to them. And he resented
acutely the possibility of Vyse's starting one of his clandestine correspondences with the
girl in Florida. Vyse's notorious lack of delicacy had never been more vividly present to Betton's
imagination; and he made up his mind to answer the letters himself.

He would keep Vyse on, of course: there were other communications that the secretary could
attend to. And, if necessary, Betton would invent an occupation: he cursed his stupidity in
having betrayed the fact that his books were already catalogued.

Vyse showed no surprise when Betton announced his intention of dealing personally with the
two correspondents who showed so flattering a reluctance to take their leave. But Betton immediately
read a criticism in his lack of comment, and put forth, on a note of challenge: "After all,
one must be decent!"

Vyse looked at him with an evanescent smile. "You'll have to explain that you didn't write
the first answers."

Betton halted. "Well--I--I more or less dictated them, didn't I?"

"Oh, virtually, they're yours, of course."

"You think I can put it that way?"

"Why not?" The secretary absently drew an arabesque on the blotting-pad. "Of course they'll
keep it up longer if you write yourself," he suggested.

Betton blushed, but faced the issue. "Hang it all, I sha'n't be sorry. They interest me. They're
remarkable letters." And Vyse, without observation, returned to his writings.

The spring, that year, was delicious to Betton. His college professor continued to address
him tersely but cogently at fixed intervals, and twice a week eight serried pages came from
Florida. There were other letters, too; he had the solace of feeling that at last "Abundance"
was making its way, was reaching the people who, as Vyse said, read slowly because they read
intelligently. But welcome as were all these proofs of his restored authority they were but
the background of his happiness. His life revolved for the moment about the personality of
his two chief correspondents. The professor's letters satisfied his craving for intellectual
recognition, and the satisfaction he felt in them proved how completely he had lost faith in
himself. He blushed to think that his opinion of his work had been swayed by the shallow judgments
of a public whose taste he despised. Was it possible that he had allowed himself to think less
well of "Abundance" because it was not to the taste of the average novel-reader? Such false
humility was less excusable than the crudest appetite for praise: it was ridiculous to try
to do conscientious work if one's self-esteem were at the mercy of popular judgments. All this
the professor's letters delicately and indirectly conveyed to Betton, with the result that
the author of "Abundance" began to recognize in it the ripest flower of his genius.

But if the professor understood his book, the girl in Florida understood him; and Betton was
fully alive to the superior qualities of discernment which this process implied. For his lovely
correspondent his novel was but the starting-point, the pretext of her discourse: he himself
was her real object, and he had the delicious sense, as their exchange of thoughts proceeded,
that she was interested in "Abundance" because of its author, rather than in the author because
of his book. Of course she laid stress on the fact that his ideas were the object of her contemplation;
but Betton's agreeable person had permitted him some insight into the incorrigible subjectiveness
of female judgments, and he was pleasantly aware, from the lady's tone, that she guessed him
to be neither old nor ridiculous. And suddenly he wrote to ask if he might see her. ...

The answer was long in coming. Betton fumed at the delay, watched, wondered, fretted; then
he received the one word "Impossible."

He wrote back more urgently, and awaited the reply with increasing eagerness. A certain shyness
had kept him from once more modifying the instructions regarding his mail, and Strett still
carried the letters directly to Vyse. The hour when he knew they were passing under the latter's
eyes was now becoming intolerable to Betton, and it was a profound relief when the secretary,
suddenly advised of his father's illness, asked permission to absent himself for a fortnight.

Vyse departed just after Betton had despatched to Florida his second missive of entreaty, and
for ten days he tasted the furtive joy of a first perusal of his letters. The answer from Florida
was not among them; but Betton said to himself "She's thinking it over," and delay, in that
light, seemed favourable. So charming, in fact, was this phase of sentimental suspense that
he felt a start of resentment when a telegram apprised him one morning that Vyse would return
to his post that day.

Betton had slept later than usual, and, springing out of bed with the telegram in his hand,
he learned from the clock that his secretary was due in half an hour. He reflected that the
morning's mail must long since be in; and, too impatient to wait for its appearance with his
breakfast-tray, he threw on a dressing-gown and went to the library. There lay the letters,
half a dozen of them: but his eye flew to one envelope, and as he tore it open a warm wave
rocked his heart.

The letter was dated a few days after its writer must have received his own: it had all the
qualities of grace and insight to which his unknown friend had accustomed him, but it contained
no allusion, however indirect, to the special purport of his appeal. Even a vanity less ingenious
than Betton's might have read in the lady's silence one of the most familiar motions of consent;
but the smile provoked by this inference faded as he turned to his other letters. For the uppermost
bore the superscription "Dead Letter Office," and the document that fell from it was his own
last letter from Florida.

Betton studied the ironic "Unknown" for an appreciable space of time; then he broke into a
laugh. He had suddenly recalled Vyse's similar experience with "Hester Macklin," and the light
he was able to throw on that obscure episode was searching enough to penetrate all the dark
corners of his own adventure. He felt a rush of heat to the ears; catching sight of himself
in the glass, he saw a red ridiculous congested countenance, and dropped into a chair to hide
it between flushed fists. He was roused by the opening of the door, and Vyse appeared on the
threshold.

"Oh, I beg pardon--you're ill?" said the secretary.

Betton's only answer was an inarticulate murmur of derision; then he pushed forward the letter
with the imprint of the Dead Letter Office.

"Look at that," he jeered.

Vyse peered at the envelope, and turned it over slowly in his hands. Betton's eyes, fixed on
him, saw his face decompose like a substance touched by some powerful acid. He clung to the
envelope as if to gain time.

"It's from the young lady you've been writing to at Swazee Springs?" he asked at length.

"It's from the young lady I've been writing to at Swazee Springs."

"Well--I suppose she's gone away," continued Vyse, rebuilding his countenance rapidly.

"Yes; and in a community numbering perhaps a hundred and seventy-five souls, including the
dogs and chickens, the local post-office is so ignorant of her movements that my letter has
to be sent to the Dead Letter Office."

Vyse meditated on this; then he laughed in turn. "After all, the same thing happened to me--with
'Hester Macklin,' I mean," he recalled sheepishly.

"Just so," said Betton, bringing down his clenched fist on the table. " Just so," he repeated,
in italics.

He caught his secretary's glance, and held it with his own for a moment. Then he dropped it
as, in pity, one releases something scared and squirming.

"The very day my letter was returned from Swazee Springs she wrote me this from there," he
said, holding up the last Florida missive.

"Ha! That's funny," said Vyse, with a damp forehead.

"Yes, it's funny; it's funny," said Betton. He leaned back, his hands in his pockets, staring
up at the ceiling, and noticing a crack in the cornice. Vyse, at the corner of the writing-table,
waited.

"Shall I get to work?" he began, after a silence measurable by minutes. Betton's gaze descended
from the cornice.

"I've got your seat, haven't I?" he said, rising and moving away from the table.

Vyse, with a quick gleam of relief, slipped into the vacant chair, and began to stir about
vaguely among the papers.

"How's your father?" Betton asked from the hearth.

"Oh, better--better, thank you. He'll pull out of it."

"But you had a sharp scare for a day or two?"

"Yes--it was touch and go when I got there."

Another pause, while Vyse began to classify the letters.

"And I suppose," Betton continued in a steady tone, "your anxiety made you forget your usual
precautions--whatever they were--about this Florida correspondence, and before you'd had time
to prevent it the Swazee post-office blundered?"

Vyse lifted his head with a quick movement. "What do you mean?" he asked, pushing his chair back.

"I mean that you saw I couldn't live without flattery, and that you've been ladling it out
to me to earn your keep."

Vyse sat motionless and shrunken, digging the blotting-pad with his pen. "What on earth are
you driving at?" he repeated.

"Though why the deuce," Betton continued in the same steady tone, "you should need to do this
kind of work when you've got such faculties at your service--those letters were magnificent,
my dear fellow! Why in the world don't you write novels, instead of writing to other people
about them?"

Vyse straightened himself with an effort. "What are you talking about, Betton? Why the devil
do you think I wrote those letters?"

Betton held back his answer, with a brooding face. "Because I wrote 'Hester Macklin's'--to myself!"

Vyse sat stock-still, without the least outcry of wonder. "Well--?" he finally said, in a low tone.

"And because you found me out (you see, you can't even feign surprise!)--because you saw through
it at a glance, knew at once that the letters were faked. And when you'd foolishly put me on
my guard by pointing out to me that they were a clumsy forgery, and had then suddenly guessed
that I was the forger, you drew the natural inference that I had to have popular approval,
or at least had to make you think I had it. You saw that, to me, the worst thing about the
failure of the book was having you know it was a failure. And so you applied your superior--your
immeasurably superior--abilities to carrying on the humbug, and deceiving me as I'd tried to
deceive you. And you did it so successfully that I don't see why the devil you haven't made
your fortune writing novels!"

Vyse remained silent, his head slightly bent under the mounting tide of Betton's denunciation.

"The way you differentiated your people--characterised them--avoided my stupid mistake of making
the women's letters too short and logical, of letting my different correspondents use the same
expressions: the amount of ingenuity and art you wasted on it! I swear, Vyse, I'm sorry that
damned post-office went back on you," Betton went on, piling up the waves of his irony.

But at this height they suddenly paused, drew back on themselves, and began to recede before
the spectacle of Vyse's pale distress. Something warm and emotional in Betton's nature--a lurking
kindliness, perhaps, for any one who tried to soothe and smooth his writhing ego--softened
his eye as it rested on the drooping figure of his secretary.

"Look here, Vyse--I'm not sorry--not altogether sorry this has happened!" He moved slowly across
the room, and laid a friendly palm on Vyse's shoulder. "In a queer illogical way it evens up
things, as it were. I did you a shabby turn once, years ago--oh, out of sheer carelessness,
of course--about that novel of yours I promised to give to Apthorn. If I had given it, it might
not have made any difference--I'm not sure it wasn't too good for success--but anyhow, I dare
say you thought my personal influence might have helped you, might at least have got you a
quicker hearing. Perhaps you thought it was because the thing was so good that I kept it back,
that I felt some nasty jealousy of your superiority. I swear to you it wasn't that--I clean
forgot it. And one day when I came home it was gone: you'd sent and taken it. And I've always
thought since you might have owed me a grudge--and not unjustly; so this ... this business
of the letters ... the sympathy you've shown ... for I suppose it is sympathy ... ?"

Vyse startled and checked him by a queer crackling laugh.

"It's not sympathy?" broke in Betton, the moisture drying out of his voice. He withdrew his
hand from Vyse's shoulder. "What is it, then? The joy of uncovering my nakedness? An eye for
an eye? Is it that?"

Vyse rose from his seat, and with a mechanical gesture swept into a heap all the letters he
had sorted.

"I'm stone broke, and wanted to keep my job--that's what it is," he said wearily ...

THE LEGEND

I

ARTHUR BERNALD could never afterward recall just when the first conjecture flashed on him:
oddly enough, there was no record of it in the agitated jottings of his diary. But, as it seemed
to him in retrospect, he had always felt that the queer man at the Wades' must be John Pellerin,
if only for the negative reason that he couldn't imaginably be any one else. It was impossible,
in the confused pattern of the century's intellectual life, to fit the stranger in anywhere,
save in the big gap which, some five and twenty years earlier, had been left by Pellerin's
unaccountable disappearance; and conversely, such a man as the Wades' visitor couldn't have
lived for sixty years without filling, somewhere in space, a nearly equivalent void.

At all events, it was certainly not to Doctor Wade or to his mother that Bernald owed the hint:
the good unconscious Wades, one of whose chief charms in the young man's eyes was that they
remained so robustly untainted by Pellerinism, in spite of the fact that Doctor Wade's younger
brother, Howland, was among its most impudently flourishing high-priests.

The incident had begun by Bernald's running across Doctor Robert Wade one hot summer night
at the University Club, and by Wade's saying, in the tone of unprofessional laxity which the
shadowy stillness of the place invited: "I got hold of a queer fish at St. Martin's the other
day--case of heat-prostration picked up in Central Park. When we'd patched him up I found he
had nowhere to go, and not a dollar in his pocket, and I sent him down to our place at Portchester
to re-build."

The opening roused his hearer's attention. Bob Wade had an odd unformulated sense of values
that Bernald had learned to trust.

"What sort of chap? Young or old?"

"Oh, every age--full of years, and yet with a lot left. He called himself sixty on the books."

"Sixty's a good age for some kinds of living. And age is of course purely subjective. How has
he used his sixty years?"

"Well--part of them in educating himself, apparently. He's a scholar--humanities, languages,
and so forth."

"Oh--decayed gentleman," Bernald murmured, disappointed.

"Decayed? Not much!" cried the doctor with his accustomed literalness. "I only mentioned that
side of Winterman--his name's Winterman--because it was the side my mother noticed first. I
suppose women generally do. But it's only a part--a small part. The man's the big thing."

"Really big?"

"Well--there again. ... When I took him down to the country, looking rather like a tramp from
a 'Shelter,' with an untrimmed beard, and a suit of reach-me-downs he'd slept round the Park
in for a week, I felt sure my mother'd carry the silver up to her room, and send for the gardener's
dog to sleep in the hall the first night. But she didn't."

"I see. 'Women and children love him.' Oh, Wade!" Bernald groaned.

"Not a bit of it! You're out again. We don't love him, either of us. But we feel him--the air's
charged with him. You'll see."

And Bernald agreed that he would see, the following Sunday. Wade's inarticulate attempts to
characterize the stranger had struck his friend. The human revelation had for Bernald a poignant
and ever-renewed interest, which his trade, as the dramatic critic of a daily paper, had hitherto
failed to discourage. And he knew that Bob Wade, simple and undefiled by literature--Bernald's
specific affliction--had a free and personal way of judging men, and the diviner's knack of
reaching their hidden springs. During the days that followed, the young doctor gave Bernald
farther details about John Winterman: details not of fact--for in that respect his visitor's
reticence was baffling--but of impression. It appeared that Winterman, while lying insensible
in the Park, had been robbed of the few dollars he possessed; and on leaving the hospital,
still weak and half-blind, he had quite simply and unprotestingly accepted the Wades' offer
to give him shelter till such time as he should be strong enough to go to work.

"But what's his work?" Bernald interjected. "Hasn't he at least told you that?"

"Well, writing. Some kind of writing." Doctor Bob always became vague and clumsy when he approached
the confines of literature. "He means to take it up again as soon as his eyes get right."

Bernald groaned. "Oh, Lord--that finishes him; and me! He's looking for a publisher, of course--he
wants a 'favourable notice.' I won't come!"

"He hasn't written a line for twenty years."

"A line of what? What kind of literature can one keep corked up for twenty years?"

Wade surprised him. "The real kind, I should say. But I don't know Winterman's line," the doctor
added. "He speaks of the things he used to write merely as 'stuff that wouldn't sell.' He has
a wonderfully confidential way of not telling one things. But he says he'll have to do something
for his living as soon as his eyes are patched up, and that writing is the only trade he knows.
The queer thing is that he seems pretty sure of selling now. He even talked of buying the bungalow
of us, with an acre or two about it."

"The bungalow? What's that?"

"The studio down by the shore that we built for Howland when he thought he meant to paint."
(Howland Wade, as Bernald knew, had experienced various "calls.") "Since he's taken to writing
nobody's been near it. I offered it to Winterman, and he camps there--cooks his meals, does
his own house-keeping, and never comes up to the house except in the evenings, when he joins
us on the verandah, in the dark, and smokes while my mother knits."

"A discreet visitor, eh?"

"More than he need be. My mother actually wanted him to stay on in the house--in her pink chintz
room. Think of it! But he says houses smother him. I take it he's lived for years in the open."

"In the open where?"

"I can't make out, except that it was somewhere in the East. 'East of everything--beyond the
day-spring. In places not on the map.' That's the way he put it; and when I said: 'You've been
an explorer, then?' he smiled in his beard, and answered: 'Yes; that's it--an explorer.' Yet
he doesn't strike me as a man of action: hasn't the hands or the eyes."

"What sort of hands and eyes has he?"

Wade reflected. His range of observation was not large, but within its limits it was exact
and could give an account of itself.

"He's worked a lot with his hands, but that's not what they were made for. I should say they
were extraordinarily delicate conductors of sensation. And his eye--his eye too. He hasn't
used it to dominate people: he didn't care to. He simply looks through 'em all like windows.
Makes me feel like the fellows who think they're made of glass. The mitigating circumstance
is that he seems to see such a glorious landscape through me." Wade grinned at the thought
of serving such a purpose.

"I see. I'll come on Sunday and be looked through!" Bernald cried.

II

BERNALD came on two successive Sundays; and the second time he lingered till the Tuesday.

"Here he comes!" Wade had said, the first evening, as the two young men, with Wade's mother
sat in the sultry dusk, with the Virginian creeper drawing, between the verandah arches, its
black arabesques against a moon-lined sky.

In the darkness Bernald heard a step on the gravel, and saw the red flit of a cigar through
the shrubs. Then a loosely-moving figure obscured the patch of sky between the creepers, and
the red spark became the centre of a dim bearded face, in which Bernald discerned only a broad
white gleam of forehead.

It was the young man's subsequent impression that Winterman had not spoken much that first
evening; at any rate, Bernald himself remembered chiefly what the Wades had said. And this
was the more curious because he had come for the purpose of studying their visitor, and because
there was nothing to divert him from that purpose in Wade's halting communications or his mother's
artless comments. He reflected afterward that there must have been a mysteriously fertilizing
quality in the stranger's silence: it had brooded over their talk like a large moist cloud
above a dry country.

Mrs. Wade, apparently apprehensive lest her son should have given Bernald an exaggerated notion
of their visitor's importance, had hastened to qualify it before the latter appeared.

"He's not what you or Howland would call intellectual--"(Bernald writhed at the coupling of
the names)--"not in the least literary; though he told Bob he used to write. I don't think,
though, it could have been what Howland would call writing." Mrs. Wade always mentioned her
younger son with a reverential drop of the voice. She viewed literature much as she did Providence,
as an inscrutably mystery; and she spoke of Howland as a dedicated being, set apart to perform
secret rites within the veil of the sanctuary.

"I shouldn't say he had a quick mind," she continued, reverting apologetically to Winterman.
"Sometimes he hardly seems to follow what we're saying. But he's got such sound ideas--when
he does speak he's never silly. And clever people sometimes are, don't you think so?" Bernald
groaned an unqualified assent. "And he's so capable. The other day something went wrong with
the kitchen range, just as I was expecting some friends of Bob's for dinner; and do you know,
when Mr. Winterman heard we were in trouble, he came and took a look, and knew at once what
to do? I told him it was a dreadful pity he wasn't married!"

Close on midnight, when the session on the verandah ended, and the two young men were strolling
down to the bungalow at Winterman's side, Bernald's mind reverted to the image of the fertilizing
cloud. There was something brooding, pregnant, in the silent presence beside him: he had, in
place of any circumscribing impression of the individual, a large hovering sense of manifold
latent meanings. And he felt a distinct thrill of relief when, half-way down the lawn, Doctor
Bob was checked by a voice that called him back to the telephone.

"Now I'll be with him alone!" thought Bernald, with a throb like a lover's.

In the low-ceilinged bungalow Winterman had to grope for the lamp on his desk, and as its light
struck up into his face Bernald's sense of the rareness of his opportunity increased. He couldn't
have said why, for the face, with its ridged brows, its shabby greyish beard and blunt Socratic
nose, made no direct appeal to the eye. It seemed rather like a stage on which remarkable things
might be enacted, like some shaggy moorland landscape dependent for form and expression on
the clouds rolling over it, and the bursts of light between; and one of these flashed out in
the smile with which Winterman, as if in answer to his companion's thought, said simply, as
he turned to fill his pipe: "Now we'll talk."

So he'd known all along that they hadn't yet--and had guessed that, with Bernald, one might!

The young man's glow of pleasure was so intense that it left him for a moment unable to meet
the challenge; and in that moment he felt the brush of something winged and summoning. His
spirit rose to it with a rush; but just as he felt himself poised between the ascending pinions,
the door opened and Bob Wade plunged in.

"Too bad! I'm so sorry! It was from Howland, to say he can't come to-morrow after all." The
doctor panted out his news with honest grief.

"I tried my best to pull it off for you; and my brother wants to come--he's keen to talk to
you and see what he can do. But you see he's so tremendously in demand. He'll try for another
Sunday later on."

Winterman nodded with a whimsical gesture. "Oh, he'll find me here. I shall work my time out
slowly." He pointed to the scattered sheets on the kitchen table which formed his writing desk.

"Not slowly enough to suit us," Wade answered hospitably. "Only, if Howland could have come
he might have given you a tip or two--put you on the right track--shown you how to get in touch
with the public."

Winterman, his hands in his sagging pockets, lounged against the bare pine walls, twisting
his pipe under his beard. "Does your brother enjoy the privilege of that contact?" he questioned
gravely.

Wade stared a little. "Oh, of course Howland's not what you'd call a popular writer; he despises
that kind of thing. But whatever he says goes with--well, with the chaps that count; and every
one tells me he's written the book on Pellerin. You must read it when you get back your eyes."
He paused, as if to let the name sink in, but Winterman drew at his pipe with a blank face.
"You must have heard of Pellerin, I suppose?" the doctor continued. "I've never read a word
of him myself: he's too big a proposition for me. But one can't escape the talk about him.
I have him crammed down my throat even in hospital. The internes read him at the clinics. He
tumbles out of the nurses' pockets. The patients keep him under their pillows. Oh, with most
of them, of course, it's just a craze, like the last new game or puzzle: they don't understand
him in the least. Howland says that even now, twenty-five years after his death, and with his
books in everybody's hands, there are not twenty people who really understand Pellerin; and
Howland ought to know, if anybody does. He's--what's their great word?--interpreted him. You
must get Howland to put you through a course of Pellerin."

And as the young men, having taken leave of Winterman, retraced their way across the lawn,
Wade continued to develop the theme of his brother's accomplishments.

"I wish I could get Howland to take an interest in Winterman: this is the third Sunday he's
chucked us. Of course he does get bored with people consulting him about their writings--but
I believe if he could only talk to Winterman he'd see something in him, as we do. And it would
be such a god-send to the poor man to have some one to advise him about his work. I'm going
to make a desperate effort to get Howland here next Sunday."

It was then that Bernald vowed to himself that he would return the next Sunday at all costs.
He hardly knew whether he was prompted by the impulse to shield Winterman from Howland Wade's
ineptitude, or by the desire to see the latter abandon himself to the full shamelessness of
its display; but of one fact he was blissfully assured--and that was of the existence in Winterman
of some quality which would provoke Howland to the amplest exercise of his fatuity. "How he'll
draw him--how he'll draw him!" Bernald chuckled, with a security the more unaccountable that
his one glimpse of Winterman had shown the latter only as a passive subject for experimentation;
and he felt himself avenged in advance for the injury of Howland Wade's existence.

III

THAT this hope was to be frustrated Bernald learned from Howland Wade's own lips, the day before
the two young men were to meet at Portchester.

"I can't really, my dear fellow," the Interpreter lisped, passing a polished hand over the
faded smoothness of his face. "Oh, an authentic engagement, I assure you: otherwise, to oblige
old Bob I'd submit cheerfully to looking over his foundling's literature. But I'm pledged this
week to the Pellerin Society of Kenosha: I had a hand in founding it, and for two years now
they've been patiently waiting for a word from me--the Fiat Lux, so to speak. You see it's
a ministry, Bernald--I assure you, I look upon my calling quite religiously."

As Bernald listened, his disappointment gradually changed to relief. Howland, on trial, always
turned out to be too insufferable, and the pleasure of watching his antics was invariably lost
in the impulse to put a sanguinary end to them.

"If he'd only keep his beastly pink hands off Pellerin," Bernald groaned, thinking of the thick
manuscript condemned to perpetual incarceration in his own desk by the publication of Howland's
"definitive" work on the great man. One couldn't, after Howland Wade, expose one's self to
the derision of writing about Pellerin: the eagerness with which Wade's book had been devoured
proved, not that the public had enough appetite for another, but simply that, for a stomach
so undiscriminating, anything better than Wade had given it would be too good. And Bernald,
in the confidence that his own work was open to this objection, had stoically locked it up.
Yet if he had resigned his exasperated intelligence to the fact that Wade's book existed, and
was already passing into the immortality of perpetual republication, he could not, after repeated
trials, adjust himself to the author's talk about Pellerin. When Wade wrote of the great dead
he was egregious, but in conversation he was familiar and fond. It might have been supposed
that one of the beauties of Pellerin's hidden life and mysterious taking off would have been
to guard him from the fingering of anecdote; but biographers like Howland Wade were born to
rise above such obstacles. He might be vague or inaccurate in dealing with the few recorded
events of his subject's life; but when he left fact for conjecture no one had a firmer footing.
Whole chapters in his volume were constructed in the conditional mood and packed with hypothetical
detail; and in talk, by the very law of the process, hypothesis became affirmation, and he
was ready to tell you confidentially the exact circumstances of Pellerin's death, and of the
"distressing incident" leading up to it. Bernald himself not only questioned the form under
which this incident was shaping itself before posterity, but the mere radical fact of its occurrence:
he had never been able to discover any break in the dense cloud enveloping Pellerin's later
life and its mysterious termination. He had gone away--that was all that any of them knew:
he who had so little, at any time, been with them or of them; and his going had so slightly
stirred the public consciousness that even the subsequent news of his death, laconically imparted
from afar, had dropped unheeded into the universal scrap-basket, to be long afterward fished
out, with all its details missing, when some enquiring spirit first became aware, by chance
encounter with a two-penny volume in a London book-stall, not only that such a man as John
Pellerin had died, but that he had ever lived, or written.

It need hardly be noted that Howland Wade had not been the pioneer in question: his had been
the wiser part of swelling the chorus when it rose, and gradually drowning the other voices
by his own insistent note. He had pitched the note so screamingly, and held it so long, that
he was now the accepted authority on Pellerin, not only in the land which had given birth to
his genius but in the Europe which had first acclaimed it; and it was the central point of
pain in Bernald's sense of the situation that a man who had so yearned for silence as Pellerin
should have his grave piped over by such a voice as Wade's.

Bernald's talk with the Interpreter had revived this ache to the momentary exclusion of other
sensations; and he was still sore with it when, the next afternoon, he arrived at Portchester
for his second Sunday with the Wades.

At the station he had the surprise of seeing Winterman's face on the platform, and of hearing
from him that Doctor Bob had been called away to assist at an operation in a distant town.

"Mrs. Wade wanted to put you off, but I believe the message came too late; so she sent me down
to break the news to you," said Winterman, holding out his hand.

Perhaps because they were the first conventional words that Bernald had heard him speak, the
young man was struck by the relief his intonation gave them.

"She wanted to send a carriage," Winterman added, "but I told her we'd walk back through the
woods." He looked at Bernald with a sudden kindness that flushed the young man with pleasure.

"Are you strong enough? It's not too far?"

"Oh, no. I'm pulling myself together. Getting back to work is the slowest part of the business:
not on account of my eyes--I can use them now, though not for reading; but some of the links
between things are missing. It's a kind of broken spectrum ... here, that boy will look after
your bag."

The walk through the woods remained in Bernald's memory as an enchanted hour. He used the word
literally, as descriptive of the way in which Winterman's contact changed the face of things,
or perhaps restored them to their primitive meanings. And the scene they traversed--one of
those little untended woods that still, in America, fringe the tawdry skirts of civilization--acquired,
as a background to Winterman, the hush of a spot aware of transcendent visitings. Did he talk,
or did he make Bernald talk? The young man never knew. He recalled only a sense of lightness
and liberation, as if the hard walls of individuality had melted, and he were merged in the
poet's deeper interfusion, yet without losing the least sharp edge of self. This general impression
resolved itself afterward into the sense of Winterman's wide elemental range. His thought encircled
things like the horizon at sea. He didn't, as it happened, touch on lofty themes--Bernald was
gleefully aware that, to Howland Wade, their talk would hardly have been Talk at all--but Winterman's
mind, applied to lowly topics, was like a powerful lens that brought out microscopic delicacies
and differences.

The lack of Sunday trains kept Doctor Bob for two days on the scene of his surgical duties,
and during those two days Bernald seized every moment of communion with his friend's guest.
Winterman, as Wade had said, was reticent as to his personal affairs, or rather as to the practical
and material conditions to which the term is generally applied. But it was evident that, in
Winterman's case, the usual classification must be reversed, and that the discussion of ideas
carried one much farther into his intimacy than any specific acquaintance with the incidents
of his life.

"That's exactly what Howland Wade and his tribe have never understood about Pellerin: that
it's much less important to know how, or even why, he disapp--"

Bernald pulled himself up with a jerk, and turned to look full at his companion. It was late
on the Monday evening, and the two men, after an hour's chat on the verandah to the tune of
Mrs. Wade's knitting-needles, had bidden their hostess good-night and strolled back to the
bungalow together.

"Come and have a pipe before you turn in," Winterman had said; and they had sat on together
till midnight, with the door of the bungalow open on a heaving moonlit bay, and summer insects
bumping against the chimney of the lamp. Winterman had just bent down to re-fill his pipe from
the jar on the table, and Bernald, jerking about to catch him in the yellow circle of lamplight,
sat speechless, staring at a fact that seemed suddenly to have substituted itself for Winterman's
face, or rather to have taken on its features.

"No, they never saw that Pellerin's ideas were Pellerin. ..." He continued to stare at Winterman.
"Just as this man's ideas are--why, are Pellerin!"

The thought uttered itself in a kind of inner shout, and Bernald started upright with the violent
impact of his conclusion. Again and again in the last forty-eight hours he had exclaimed to
himself: "This is as good as Pellerin." Why hadn't he said till now: "This is Pellerin"? ...
Surprising as the answer was, he had no choice but to take it. He hadn't said so simply because
Winterman was better than Pellerin--that there was so much more of him, so to speak. Yes; but--it
came to Bernald in a flash--wouldn't there by this time have been any amount more of Pellerin?
... The young man felt actually dizzy with the thought. That was it--there was the solution
of the haunting problem! This man was Pellerin, and more than Pellerin! It was so fantastic
and yet so unanswerable that he burst into a sudden startled laugh.

Winterman, at the same moment, brought his palm down with a sudden crash on the pile of manuscript
covering the desk.

"What's the matter?" Bernald gasped.

"My match wasn't out. In another minute the destruction of the library of Alexandria would
have been a trifle compared to what you'd have seen." Winterman, with his large deep laugh,
shook out the smouldering sheets. "And I should have been a pensioner on Doctor Bob the Lord
knows how much longer!"

Bernald pulled himself together. "You've really got going again? The thing's actually getting
into shape?"

"This particular thing is in shape. I drove at it hard all last week, thinking our friend's
brother would be down on Sunday, and might look it over."

Bernald had to repress the tendency to another wild laugh.

"Howland--you meant to show Howland what you've done?"

Winterman, looming against the moonlight, slowly turned a dusky shaggy head toward him.

"Isn't it a good thing to do?"

Bernald wavered, torn between loyalty to his friends and the grotesqueness of answering in
the affirmative. After all, it was none of his business to furnish Winterman with an estimate
of Howland Wade.

"Well, you see, you've never told me what your line is," he answered, temporizing.

"No, because nobody's ever told me. It's exactly what I want to find out," said the other genially.

"And you expect Wade--?"

"Why, I gathered from our good Doctor that it's his trade. Doesn't he explain--interpret?"

"In his own domain--which is Pellerinism."

Winterman gazed out musingly upon the moon-touched dusk of waters. "And what is Pellerinism?"
he asked.

Bernald sprang to his feet with a cry. "Ah, I don't know--but you're Pellerin!"

They stood for a minute facing each other, among the uncertain swaying shadows of the room,
with the sea breathing through it as something immense and inarticulate breathed through young
Bernald's thoughts; then Winterman threw up his arms with a humorous gesture.

"Don't shoot!" he said.

IV

DAWN found them there, and the risen sun laid its beams on the rough floor of the bungalow,
before either of the men was conscious of the passage of time. Bernald, vaguely trying to define
his own state in retrospect, could only phrase it: "I floated ... floated. ..."

The gist of fact at the core of the extraordinary experience was simply that John Pellerin,
twenty-five years earlier, had voluntarily disappeared, causing the rumour of his death to
be reported to an inattentive world; and that now he had come back to see what that world had
made of him.

"You'll hardly believe it of me; I hardly believe it of myself; but I went away in a rage of
disappointment, of wounded pride--no, vanity! I don't know which cut deepest--the sneers or
the silence--but between them, there wasn't an inch of me that wasn't raw. I had just the one
thing in me: the message, the cry, the revelation. But nobody saw and nobody listened. Nobody
wanted what I had to give. I was like a poor devil of a tramp looking for shelter on a bitter
night, in a town with every door bolted and all the windows dark. And suddenly I felt that
the easiest thing would be to lie down and go to sleep in the snow. Perhaps I'd a vague notion
that if they found me there at daylight, frozen stiff, the pathetic spectacle might produce
a reaction, a feeling of remorse. ... So I took care to be found! Well, a good many thousand
people die every day on the face of the globe; and I soon discovered that I was simply one
of the thousands; and when I made that discovery I really died--and stayed dead a year or two.
... When I came to life again I was off on the under side of the world, in regions unaware
of what we know as 'the public.' Have you any notion how it shifts the point of view to wake
under new constellations? I advise any who's been in love with a woman under Cassiopeia to
go and think about her under the Southern Cross. ... It's the only way to tell the pivotal
truths from the others. ... I didn't believe in my theory any less--there was my triumph and
my vindication! It held out, resisted, measured itself with the stars. But I didn't care a
snap of my finger whether anybody else believed in it, or even knew it had been formulated.
It escaped out of my books--my poor still-born books--like Psyche from the chrysalis and soared
away into the blue, and lived there. I knew then how it frees an idea to be ignored; how apprehension
circumscribes and deforms it. ... Once I'd learned that, it was easy enough to turn to and
shift for myself. I was sure now that my idea would live: the good ones are self-supporting.
I had to learn to be so; and I tried my hand at a number of things ... adventurous, menial,
commercial. ... It's not a bad thing for a man to have to live his life--and we nearly all
manage to dodge it. Our first round with the Sphinx may strike something out of us--a book
or a picture or a symphony; and we're amazed at our feat, and go on letting that first work
breed others, as some animal forms reproduce each other without renewed fertilization. So there
we are, committed to our first guess at the riddle; and our works look as like as successive
impressions of the same plate, each with the lines a little fainter; whereas they ought to
be--if we touch earth between times--as different from each other as those other creatures--jellyfish,
aren't they, of a kind?--where successive generations produce new forms, and it takes a zoologist
to see the hidden likeness. ...

"Well, I proved my first guess, off there in the wilds, and it lived, and grew, and took care
of itself. And I said 'Some day it will make itself heard; but by that time my atoms will have
waltzed into a new pattern.' Then, in Cashmere one day, I met a fellow in a caravan, with a
dog-eared book in his pocket. He said he never stirred without it--wanted to know where I'd
been, never to have heard of it. It was my guess--in its twentieth edition! ... The globe spun
round at that, and all of a sudden I was under the old stars. That's the way it happens when
the ballast of vanity shifts! I'd lived a third of a life out there, unconscious of human opinion--because
I supposed it was unconscious of me. But now--now! Oh, it was different. I wanted to know what
they said. ... Not exactly that, either: I wanted to know what I'd made them say. There's a
difference. ... And here I am," said John Pellerin, with a pull at his pipe.

So much Bernald retained of his companion's actual narrative; the rest was swept away under
the tide of wonder that rose and submerged him as Pellerin--at some indefinitely later stage
of their talk--picked up his manuscript and began to read. Bernald sat opposite, his elbows
propped on the table, his eyes fixed on the swaying waters outside, from which the moon gradually
faded, leaving them to make a denser blackness in the night. As Pellerin read, this density
of blackness--which never for a moment seemed inert or unalive--was attenuated by imperceptible
degrees, till a greyish pallour replaced it; then the pallour breathed and brightened, and
suddenly dawn was on the sea.

Something of the same nature went on in the young man's mind while he watched and listened.
He was conscious of a gradually withdrawing light, of an interval of obscurity full of the
stir of invisible forces, and then of the victorious flush of day. And as the light rose, he
saw how far he had travelled and what wonders the night had prepared. Pellerin had been right
in saying that his first idea had survived, had borne the test of time; but he had given his
hearer no hint of the extent to which it had been enlarged and modified, of the fresh implications
it now unfolded. In a brief flash of retrospection Bernald saw the earlier books dwindle and
fall into their place as mere precursors of this fuller revelation; then, with a leap of helpless
rage, he pictured Howland Wade's pink hands on the new treasure, and his prophetic feet upon
the lecture platform.

V

"IT won't do--oh, he let him down as gently as possible; but it appears it simply won't do."

Doctor Bob imparted the ineluctable fact to Bernald while the two men, accidentally meeting
at their club a few nights later, sat together over the dinner they had immediately agreed
to consume in company.

Bernald had left Portchester the morning after his strange discovery, and he and Bob Wade had
not seen each other since. And now Bernald, moved by an irresistible instinct of postponement,
had waited for his companion to bring up Winterman's name, and had even executed several conversational
diversions in the hope of delaying its mention. For how could one talk of Winterman with the
thought of Pellerin swelling one's breast?

"Yes; the very day Howland got back from Kenosha I brought the manuscript to town, and got
him to read it. And yesterday evening I nailed him, and dragged an answer out of him."

"Then Howland hasn't seen Winterman yet?"

"No. He said: 'Before you let him loose on me I'll go over the stuff, and see if it's at all
worth while.'"

Bernald drew a freer breath. "And he found it wasn't?"

"Between ourselves, he found it was of no account at all. Queer, isn't it, when the man ...
but of course literature's another proposition. Howland says it's one of the cases where an
idea might seem original and striking if one didn't happen to be able to trace its descent.
And this is straight out of bosh--by Pellerin. ... Yes: Pellerin. It seems that everything
in the article that isn't pure nonsense is just Pellerinism. Howland thinks poor Winterman
must have been tremendously struck by Pellerin's writings, and have lived too much out of the
world to know that they've become the text-books of modern thought. Otherwise, of course, he'd
have taken more trouble to disguise his plagiarisms."

"I see," Bernald mused. "Yet you say there is an original element?"

"Yes; but unluckily it's no good."

"It's not--conceivably--in any sense a development of Pellerin's idea: a logical step farther?"

"Logical? Howland says it's twaddle at white heat."

Bernald sat silent, divided between the fierce satisfaction of seeing the Interpreter rush
upon his fate, and the despair of knowing that the state of mind he represented was indestructible.
Then both emotions were swept away on a wave of pure joy, as he reflected that now, at last,
Howland Wade had given him back John Pellerin.

The possession was one he did not mean to part with lightly; and the dread of its being torn
from him constrained him to extraordinary precautions.

"You've told Winterman, I suppose? How did he take it?"

"Why, unexpectedly, as he does most things. You can never tell which way he'll jump. I thought
he'd take a high tone, or else laugh it off; but he did neither. He seemed awfully cast down.
I wished myself well out of the job when I saw how cut up he was." Bernald thrilled at the
words. Pellerin had shared his pang, then--the "old woe of the world" at the perpetuity of
human dulness!

"But what did he say to the charge of plagiarism--if you made it?"

"Oh, I told him straight out what Howland said. I thought it fairer. And his answer to that
was the rummest part of all."

"What was it?" Bernald questioned, with a tremor.

"He said: 'That's queer, for I've never read Pellerin.'"

Bernald drew a deep breath of ecstasy. "Well--and I suppose you believed him?"

"I believed him, because I know him. But the public won't--the critics won't. And if it's a
pure coincidence it's just as bad for him as if it were a straight steal--isn't it?"

Bernald sighed his acquiescence.

"It bothers me awfully," Wade continued, knitting his kindly brows, "because I could see what
a blow it was to him. He's got to earn his living, and I don't suppose he knows how to do anything
else. At his age it's hard to start fresh. I put that to Howland--asked him if there wasn't
a chance he might do better if he only had a little encouragement. I can't help feeling he's
got the essential thing in him. But of course I'm no judge when it comes to books. And Howland
says it would be cruel to give him any hope." Wade paused, turned his wineglass about under
a meditative stare, and then leaned across the table toward Bernald. "Look here--do you know
what I've proposed to Winterman? That he should come to town with me to-morrow and go in the
evening to hear Howland lecture to the Uplift Club. They're to meet at Mrs. Beecher Bain's,
and Howland is to repeat the lecture that he gave the other day before the Pellerin Society
at Kenosha. It will give Winterman a chance to get some notion of what Pellerin was: he'll
get it much straighter from Howland than if he tried to plough through Pellerin's books. And
then afterward--as if accidentally--I thought I might bring him and Howland together. If Howland
could only see him and hear him talk, there's no knowing what might come of it. He couldn't
help feeling the man's force, as we do; and he might give him a pointer--tell him what line
to take. Anyhow, it would please Winterman, and take the edge off his disappointment. I saw
that as soon as I proposed it."

"Some one who's never heard of Pellerin?"

Mrs. Beecher Bain, large, smiling, diffuse, reached out parenthetically from the incoming throng
on her threshold to waylay Bernald with the question as he was about to move past her in the
wake of his companion.

"Oh, keep straight on, Mr. Winterman!" she interrupted herself to call after the latter. "Into
the back drawing-room, please! And remember, you're to sit next to me--in the corner on the
left, close under the platform."

She renewed her interrogative clutch on Bernald's sleeve. "Most curious! Doctor Wade has been
telling me all about him--how remarkable you all think him. And it's actually true that he's
never heard of Pellerin? Of course as soon as Doctor Wade told me that, I said 'Bring him!'
It will be so extraordinarily interesting to watch the first impression.--Yes, do follow him,
dear Mr. Bernald, and be sure that you and he secure the seats next to me. Of course Alice
Fosdick insists on being with us. She was wild with excitement when I told her she was to meet
some one who'd never heard of Pellerin!"

On the indulgent lips of Mrs. Beecher Bain conjecture speedily passed into affirmation; and
as Bernald's companion, broad and shaggy in his visibly new evening clothes, moved down the
length of the crowded rooms, he was already, to the ladies drawing aside their skirts to let
him pass, the interesting Huron of the fable.

How far he was aware of the character ascribed to him it was impossible for Bernald to discover.
He was as unconscious as a tree or a cloud, and his observer had never known any one so alive
to human contacts and yet so secure from them. But the scene was playing such a lively tune
on Bernald's own sensibilities that for the moment he could not adjust himself to the probable
effect it produced on his companion. The young man, of late, had made but rare appearances
in the group of which Mrs. Beecher Bain was one of the most indefatigable hostesses, and the
Uplift Club the chief medium of expression. To a critic, obliged by his trade to cultivate
convictions, it was the essence of luxury to leave them at home in his hours of ease; and Bernald
gave his preference to circles in which less finality of judgment prevailed, and it was consequently
less embarrassing to be caught without an opinion.

But in his fresher days he had known the spell of the Uplift Club and the thrill of moving
among the Emancipated; and he felt an odd sense of rejuvenation as he looked at the rows of
faces packed about the embowered platform from which Howland Wade was presently to hand down
the eternal verities. Many of these countenances belonged to the old days, when the gospel
of Pellerin was unknown, and it required considerable intellectual courage to avow one's acceptance
of the very doctrines he had since demolished. The latter moral revolution seemed to have been
accepted as submissively as a change in hair-dressing; and it even struck Bernald that, in
the case of many of the assembled ladies, their convictions were rather newer than their clothes.

One of the most interesting examples of this facility of adaptation was actually, in the person
of Miss Alice Fosdick, brushing his elbow with exotic amulets, and enveloping him in Arabian
odours, as she leaned forward to murmur her sympathetic sense of the situation. Miss Fosdick,
who was one of the most advanced exponents of Pellerinism, had large eyes and a plaintive mouth,
and Bernald had always fancied that she might have been pretty if she had not been perpetually
explaining things.

"Yes, I know--Isabella Bain told me all about him. (He can't hear us, can he?) And I wonder
if you realize how remarkably interesting it is that we should have such an opportunity now--I
mean the opportunity to see the impression of Pellerinism on a perfectly fresh mind. (You must
introduce him as soon as the lecture's over.) I explained that to Isabella as soon as she showed
me Doctor Wade's note. Of course you see why, don't you?" Bernald made a faint motion of acquiescence,
which she instantly swept aside. "At least I think I can make you see why. (If you're sure
he can't hear?) Why, it's just this--Pellerinism is in danger of becoming a truism. Oh, it's
an awful thing to say! But then I'm not afraid of saying awful things! I rather believe it's
my mission. What I mean is, that we're getting into the way of taking Pellerin for granted--as
we do the air we breathe. We don't sufficiently lead our conscious life in him--we're gradually
letting him become subliminal." She swayed closer to the young man, and he saw that she was
making a graceful attempt to throw her explanatory net over his companion, who, evading Mrs.
Bain's hospitable signal, had cautiously wedged himself into a seat between Bernald and the wall.

"Did you hear what I was saying, Mr. Winterman? (Yes, I know who you are, of course!) Oh, well,
I don't really mind if you did. I was talking about you--about you and Pellerin. I was explaining
to Mr. Bernald that what we need at this very minute is a Pellerin revival; and we need some
one like you--to whom his message comes as a wonderful new interpretation of life--to lead
the revival, and rouse us out of our apathy. ...

"You see," she went on winningly, "it's not only the big public that needs it (of course their
Pellerin isn't ours!) It's we, his disciples, his interpreters, who discovered him and gave
him to the world--we, the Chosen People, the Custodians of the Sacred Books, as Howland Wade
calls us--it's we, who are in perpetual danger of sinking back into the old stagnant ideals,
and practising the Seven Deadly Virtues; it's we who need to count our mercies, and realize
anew what he's done for us, and what we ought to do for him! And it's for that reason that
I urged Mr. Wade to speak here, in the very inner sanctuary of Pellerinism, exactly as he would
speak to the uninitiated--to repeat, simply, his Kenosha lecture, 'What Pellerinism means';
and we ought all, I think, to listen to him with the hearts of little children--just as you
will, Mr. Winterman--as if he were telling us new things, and we--"

"Alice, dear--" Mrs. Bain murmured with a deprecating gesture; and Howland Wade, emerging between
the palms, took the centre of the platform.

A pang of commiseration shot through Bernald as he saw him there, so innocent and so exposed.
His plump pulpy body, which made his evening dress fall into intimate and wrapper-like folds,
was like a wide surface spread to the shafts of irony; and the mild ripples of his voice seemed
to enlarge the vulnerable area as he leaned forward, poised on confidential finger-tips, to
say persuasively: "Let me try to tell you what Pellerinism means."

Bernald moved restlessly in his seat. He had the obscure sense of being a party to something
not wholly honourable. He ought not to have come; he ought not to have let his companion come.
Yet how could he have done otherwise? John Pellerin's secret was his own. As long as he chose
to remain John Winterman it was no one's business to gainsay him; and Bernald's scruples were
really justifiable only in respect of his own presence on the scene. But even in this connection
he ceased to feel them as soon as Howland Wade began to speak.

VI

IT had been arranged that Pellerin, after the meeting of the Uplift Club, should join Bernald
at his rooms and spend the night there, instead of returning to Portchester. The plan had been
eagerly elaborated by the young man, but he had been unprepared for the alacrity with which
his wonderful friend accepted it. He was beginning to see that it was a part of Pellerin's
wonderfulness to fall in, quite simply and naturally, with any arrangements made for his convenience,
or tending to promote the convenience of others. Bernald felt that his extreme docility in
such matters was proportioned to the force of resistance which, for nearly half a life-time,
had kept him, with his back to the wall, fighting alone against the powers of darkness. In
such a scale of values how little the small daily alternatives must weigh!

At the close of Howland Wade's discourse, Bernald, charged with his prodigious secret, had
felt the need to escape for an instant from the liberated rush of talk. The interest of watching
Pellerin was so perilously great that the watcher felt it might, at any moment, betray him.
He lingered in the crowded drawing-room long enough to see his friend enclosed in a mounting
tide, above which Mrs. Beecher Bain and Miss Fosdick actively waved their conversational tridents;
then he took refuge, at the back of the house, in a small dim library where, in his younger
days, he had discussed personal immortality and the problem of consciousness with beautiful
girls whose names he could not remember.

In this retreat he surprised Mr. Beecher Bain, a quiet man with a mild brow, who was smoking
a surreptitious cigar over the last number of the Strand. Mr. Bain, at Bernald's approach,
dissembled the Strand under a copy of the Hibbert Journal, but tendered his cigar-case with
the remark that stocks were heavy again; and Bernald blissfully abandoned himself to this unexpected
contact with reality.

On his return to the drawing-room he found that the tide had set toward the supper-table, and
when it finally carried him thither it was to land him in the welcoming arms of Bob Wade.

"Hullo, old man! Where have you been all this time?--Winterman? Oh, he's talking to Howland:
yes, I managed it finally. I believe Mrs. Bain has steered them into the library, so that they
shan't be disturbed. I gave her an idea of the situation, and she was awfully kind. We'd better
leave them alone, don't you think? I'm trying to get a croquette for Miss Fosdick."

Bernald's secret leapt in his bosom, and he devoted himself to the task of distributing sandwiches
and champagne while his pulses danced to the tune of the cosmic laughter. The vision of Pellerin
and his Interpreter, face to face at last, had a Cyclopean grandeur that dwarfed all other
comedy. "And I shall hear of it presently; in an hour or two he'll be telling me about it.
And that hour will be all mine--mine and his!" The dizziness of the thought made it difficult
for Bernald to preserve the balance of the supper-plates he was distributing. Life had for
him at that moment the completeness which seems to defy disintegration.

The throng in the dining-room was thickening, and Bernald's efforts as purveyor were interrupted
by frequent appeals, from ladies who had reached repleteness, that he should sit down a moment
and tell them all about his interesting friend. Winterman's fame, trumpeted abroad by Miss
Fosdick, had reached the four corners of the Uplift Club, and Bernald found himself fabricating
de toutes pieces a Winterman legend which should in some degree respond to the Club's demand
for the human document. When at length he had acquitted himself of this obligation, and was
free to work his way back through the lessening groups into the drawing-room, he was at last
rewarded by a glimpse of his friend, who, still densely encompassed, towered in the centre
of the room in all his sovran ugliness.

Their eyes met across the crowd; but Bernald gathered only perplexity from the encounter. What
were Pellerin's eyes saying to him? What orders, what confidences, what indefinable apprehension
did their long look impart? The young man was still trying to decipher their complex message
when he felt a tap on the arm, and turned to encounter the rueful gaze of Bob Wade, whose meaning
lay clearly enough on the surface of his good blue stare.

"Well, it won't work--it won't work," the doctor groaned.

"What won't?"

"I mean with Howland. Winterman won't. Howland doesn't take to him. Says he's crude--frightfully
crude. And you know how Howland hates crudeness."

"Oh, I know," Bernald exulted. It was the word he had waited for--he saw it now! Once more
he was lost in wonder at Howland's miraculous faculty for always, as the naturalists said,
being true to type.

"So I'm afraid it's all up with his chance of writing. At least I can do no more," said Wade,
discouraged.

Bernald pressed him for farther details. "Does Winterman seem to mind much? Did you hear his
version?"

"His version?"

"I mean what he said to Howland."

"Why no. What the deuce was there for him to say?"

"What indeed? I think I'll take him home," said Bernald gaily.

He turned away to join the circle from which, a few minutes before, Pellerin's eyes had vainly
and enigmatically signalled to him; but the circle had dispersed, and Pellerin himself was
not in sight.

Bernald, looking about him, saw that during his brief aside with Wade the party had passed
into the final phase of dissolution. People still delayed, in diminishing groups, but the current
had set toward the doors, and every moment or two it bore away a few more lingerers. Bernald,
from his post, commanded the clearing perspective of the two drawing-rooms, and a rapid survey
of their length sufficed to assure him that Pellerin was not in either. Taking leave of Wade,
the young man made his way back to the drawing-room, where only a few hardened feasters remained,
and then passed on to the library which had been the scene of the late momentous colloquy.
But the library too was empty, and drifting back uncertainly to the inner drawing-room Bernald
found Mrs. Beecher Bain domestically putting out the wax candles on the mantel-piece.

"Dear Mr. Bernald! Do sit down and have a little chat. What a wonderful privilege it has been!
I don't know when I've had such an intense impression."

She made way for him, hospitably, in a corner of the sofa to which she had sunk; and he echoed
her vaguely: "You were impressed, then?"

"I can't express to you how it affected me! As Alice said, it was a resurrection--it was as
if John Pellerin were actually here in the room with us!"

Bernald turned on her with a half-audible gasp. "You felt that, dear Mrs. Bain?"

"We all felt it--every one of us! I don't wonder the Greeks--it was the Greeks?--regarded eloquence
as a supernatural power. As Alice says, when one looked at Howland Wade one understood what
they meant by the Afflatus."

Bernald rose and held out his hand. "Oh, I see--it was Howland who made you feel as if Pellerin
were in the room? And he made Miss Fosdick feel so too?"

"Why, of course. But why are you rushing off?"

"Because I must hunt up my friend, who's not used to such late hours."

"Your friend?" Mrs. Bain had to collect her thoughts. "Oh, Mr. Winterman, you mean? But he's
gone already."

"Gone?" Bernald exclaimed, with an odd twinge of foreboding. Remembering Pellerin's signal
across the crowd, he reproached himself for not having answered it more promptly. Yet it was
certainly strange that his friend should have left the house without him.

"Are you quite sure?" he asked, with a startled glance at the clock.

"Oh, perfectly. He went half an hour ago. But you needn't hurry home on his account, for Alice
Fosdick carried him off with her. I saw them leave together."

"Carried him off? She took him home with her, you mean?"

"Yes. You know what strange hours she keeps. She told me she was going to give him a Welsh
rabbit, and explain Pellerinism to him."

"Oh, if she's going to explain--" Bernald murmured. But his amazement at the news struggled
with a confused impatience to reach his rooms in time to be there for his friend's arrival.
There could be no stranger spectacle beneath the stars than that of John Pellerin carried off
by Miss Fosdick, and listening, in the small hours, to her elucidation of his doctrines; but
Bernald knew enough of his sex to be aware that such an experiment may present a less humorous
side to its subject than to an impartial observer. Even the Uplift Club and its connotations
might benefit by the attraction of the unknown; and it was conceivable that to a traveller
from Mesopotamia Miss Fosdick might present elements of interest which she had lost for the
frequenters of Fifth Avenue. There was, at any rate, no denying that the affair had become
unexpectedly complex, and that its farther development promised to be rich in comedy.

In the charmed contemplation of these possibilities Bernald sat over his fire, listening for
Pellerin's ring. He had arranged his modest quarters with the reverent care of a celebrant
awaiting the descent of his deity. He guessed Pellerin to be unconscious of visual detail,
but sensitive to the happy blending of sensuous impressions: to the intimate spell of lamplight
on books, and of a deep chair placed where one could watch the fire. The chair was there, and
Bernald, facing it across the hearth, already saw it filled by Pellerin's lounging figure.
The autumn dawn came late, and even now they had before them the promise of some untroubled
hours. Bernald, sitting there alone in the warm stillness of his room, and in the profounder
hush of his expectancy, was conscious of gathering up all his sensibilities and perceptions
into one exquisitely-adjusted instrument of notation. Until now he had tasted Pellerin's society
only in unpremeditated snatches, and had always left him with a sense, on his own part, of
waste and shortcoming. Now, in the lull of this dedicated hour, he felt that he should miss
nothing, and forget nothing, of the initiation that awaited him. And catching sight of Pellerin's
pipe, he rose and laid it carefully on a table by the arm-chair.

"No. I've never had any news of him," Bernald heard himself repeating. He spoke in a low tone,
and with the automatic utterance that alone made it possible to say the words.

