ZIG, a giant cock in the Talmud (q. v.), which stands with its foot on the earth, touches heaven
with its head, and when it spreads its wings causes a total eclipse of the sun.

ZILLERTHAL, a valley in the Tyrol, watered by the Ziller, an affluent of the Inn, some 400
of the inhabitants of which were in 1837 obliged to seek a home elsewhere because of their
opposition to the practice of auricular confession, and which they found near Liegnitz, in
Prussian Silesia.

ZIMBABYE, a remarkable ruin in Mashonaland, the remains apparently of some enterprising colony
of nature-worshippers that settled there in ancient times, in the interest of trade presumably.

ZIMMERMANN, JOHAN GEORG VON, Swiss physician, born at Brugg, in the canton of Bern; studied
at Göttingen, became the friend of HALLER (q. v.), and settled down to practice in his native
town, where he continued 16 years, very successful both in medicine and literature, but "tormented
with hypochondria," and wrote his book on "Solitude," which was translated into every European
language; wrote also on "Medical Experiences," a famed book in its day too, also on "National
Pride," and became "famed throughout the universe"; attended Frederick the Great on his deathbed,
and wrote an unwise book about him, "a poor puddle of calumnies and credulities" (1728-1795).
For insight into the man and his ways see CARLYLE'S "FREDERICK," a curious record.

ZINDIKITES, a Mohammedan heretical sect, who disbelieve in Allah, and deny the resurrection
and a future life.

ZINZENDORF, a German count, born in Dresden; studied at Wittenberg, came under the influence
of the Pietist Spener, gave himself up to evangelical labours, and established a religious
community on his estate at Herrnhut, in Saxony, consisting chiefly of a body of Moravian Brethren,
who had been driven out of Bohemia and Moravia on account of their religious opinions, and
were called Herrnhuters, of which he became one of the leaders and chief apostles, labouring
far and wide in the propagation of their doctrines and suffering no small persecution by the
way; he was an earnest man, the author of religious writings, controversial and devotional;
wrote a number of hymns, and died at Herrnhut, from which he was driven forth, but to which
he was allowed to return before the end (1700-1760).

ZION, that one of the four hills on which Jerusalem is built, on the SW. of the city, and the
site of the palace of King David and his successors.

ZIONISM, the name given a movement on the part of the Jews to re-establish themselves in Palestine
as a nation.

ZIRCONIA LIGHT, an intensely brilliant light, similar to the Drummond light, but differing
from it chiefly in the employment of cones of zirconium instead of cylinders of lime; it has
been superseded by the electric light.

ZIRCONIUM, a metallic element often found in connection with silica, commonly in the form of
a black powder.

ZIRKNITZ, LAKE, a high-lying lake in Carniola, 20 m. SW. of Laybach, the waters of which in
the dry season will sometimes disappear altogether through the fissures, and in rainy will
sometimes expand into a lake 5 m. long and 3 m. broad.

ZISKA, JOHANN, Hussite leader, born in Bohemia of a noble family; began life as a page at the
court of King Wenceslas, but threw up a courtier's life in disgust for a career in arms; fought
and distinguished himself by his valour against the Teutonic knights at Tannenberg in 1410,
to their utter defeat; signalised himself afterwards against the Turks, and in 1413 fought
on the English side at Agincourt; failing to rouse Wenceslas to avenge the death of HUSS (q.
v.) and of JEROME OF PRAGUE (q. v.), he joined the Hussites, organised their forces, assumed
the chief command, and in 1420 gained, with a force of 4000 men, a victory over the Emperor
Sigismund with an army of 40,000 mustered to crush him; captured next year the castle of Prague,
erected fortresses over the country, one in particular called Tabor, whence the name Taborites
given to his party; blind of one eye from his childhood, lost the other at the siege of Ratz,
fought on blind notwithstanding, gaining victory after victory, but was seized with the plague
and carried off by it at Czaslav, where his remains were buried and his big mace or battle-club,
mostly iron, hung honourably on the wall close by; that his skin was tanned and made into the
cover of a drum is a fable; he was a tough soldier, and is called once and again in Carlyle's
"Frederick" "Rhinoceros Ziska" (1360-1424).

ZITTAU (25), a town of Saxony, 71 m. SE. of Dresden, with a magnificent Rathhaus; stands on
a vast lignite deposit; manufactures cotton, linen, machinery, &c.

ZLATOUST (21), a Russian town near the Urals, 130 m. NE. of Ufa, with iron and gold mines near;
manufactures sword-blades and other steel ware.

ZOAR, a small village of Ohio, U.S., 91 m. S. of Cleveland, and the seat of a German Socialistic
community.

ZÖCKLER, OTTO, German theologian, professor at Greifswald; edited a "Handbuch der theologischen
Wissenschaft," and other works; b. 1833.

ZODIAC, the name given to a belt of the heavens extending 8° on each side of the ecliptic,
composed of twelve constellations called signs of the zodiac, which the sun traverses in the
course of a year. The sun enters Aries at the spring equinox and Libra at the autumnal equinox,
while the first point of Cancer marks the summer solstice, and that of Capricorn the winter.
The name Zodiac is derived from the Greek zoon, an animal, and has been given to the belt because
the majority of the signs are named after animals.

ZODIACAL LIGHT, a track of light of triangular figure with its base on the horizon, which in
low latitudes is seen within the sun's equatorial plane before sunrise in the E. or after sunset
in the W., and which is presumed to be due to a glow proceeding from some illuminated matter
surrounding the sun.

ZOHAR, a Jewish book of cabalistic commentaries on the Old Testament.

ZOILUS, a Greek rhetorician who flourished in the 3rd century B.C.; was distinguished for the
bitterness with which he criticised Homer, and whose name has in consequence become a synonym
for a malignant critic, hence the saying, "Every great poet has his Zoilus."

ZOLA, ÉMILE, a noted French novelist of the realistic school, or of what he prefers to call
the naturalist school, born in Paris, of Italian descent; began literature as a journalist,
specially in the critical department, but soon gave himself up to novel-writing, ultimately
on realistic lines, and an undue catering, as some think, to a morbid interest on the seamy
side of life, to which he addressed himself with great vigour and not a little graphic power,
but in an entire misconception of his proper functions as an artist and a man of letters, though,
it may be pleaded, he has done so from a strong conviction on his part that his duty lay the
other way, and that it was high time literature should, regardless of merely dilettante æstheticism,
address itself to exposing, by depicting it, the extent to which the evil genius is gnawing
at and corroding the vitals of society; and it is not for a moment to be supposed he has done
so from any pleasure he takes in gloating over the doings of the ghoul, or that he is in sympathy
with those who do; of his works suffice it to mention here some recent ones, as the story of
"Lourdes," published in 1894, "Rome" in 1896, and "Paris" in 1897; he has recently distinguished
himself by his courage in connection with the Dreyfus affair and his bold condemnation of the
sentence under which Dreyfus was condemned; b. 1840.

ZOLAISM, name given to an excessive realism in depicting the worst side of human life and society.
See ZOLA.

ZOLLVEREIN (Customs Union), a union of the German States under Prussia in 1827, and extended
in 1867, to establish among them a uniform system of customs rates.

ZONES, the name given to belts of climate on the surface of the earth marked off by the tropical
and polar circles, of which the former are 23½° from the equator and the latter 23½° from the
poles, the zone between the tropical circles, subject to extremes of heat, being called the
Torrid Zone, the zones between the polar circles and the poles, subject to extremes of cold,
being called respectively the North Frigid Zone and the South Frigid Zone, and the zones north
and south of the Torrid, subject to moderate temperature, being called respectively the North
Temperate, and the South Temperate Zone.

ZOROASTER, ZARATHUSTHRA, or ZERDUSHT, the founder or reformer of the Parsee religion, of whom,
though certainly a historical personage, nothing whatever is for certain known except that
his family name was Spitama, that he was born in Bactria, and that he could not have flourished
later than 800 B.C.; he appears to have been a pure monotheist, and not to be responsible for
the Manichean doctrine of dualism associated with his name, as Zoroastrianism, or the institution
of fire-worship.

ZOSIMUS, Greek historian; wrote a history of the Roman emperors from the time of Augustus to
the year 410, and ascribed the decline of the empire to the decay of paganism (408-450).

ZOUAVES, the name given to a body of light infantry in the French army wearing the Arab dress,
a costume copied from that of Kabyles, in North Africa, and adopted since the French conquest
of Algiers; some regiments of them consist of French soldiers, some of Algerines, though originally
the two were incorporated into one body.

ZOUTSPANSBERG, a ridge of mountains on the NE. of the Transvaal, being a continuation of the
Drakensberg.

ZSCHOKKE, JOHANN HEINRICH, a German writer, born in Magdeburg, lived chiefly at Aarau, in Aargau,
Switzerland, where he spent forty years of his life, part of them in the service of his adopted
country, and where he died; wrote histories, and a series of tales, but is best known by his
"Stunden der Andacht" (i. e. hours of devotion), on ethico-rationalistic lines (1771-1845).

ZUG (23), the smallest canton of Switzerland, and sends only one representative to the National
Council; is 12 m. long by 9 m. broad; is hilly and pastoral in the SE., and has cultivated
fields and orchards in the NW.; all but includes Lake Zug, at the NE. of which is Zug (5),
the capital, which carries on sundry industries on a small scale.

ZUIDER ZEE (i. e. south sea), a deep inlet of the North Sea, in the Netherlands, which includes
the islands of Texel, Vlieland, Terschelling, and Ameland, and was formed by irruptions of
the North Sea into a lake called Flevo, in the 12th, 13th, and 14th centuries, when thousands
of people were drowned; is 85 m. long and 45 m. broad, and is embraced in a circuit of 210
m.; it was for some time in contemplation to reclaim this area, and after much weighing of
the matter the Dutch Government in 1897 adopted a scheme to give effect to this project; according
to the scheme adopted it is reckoned it will take 31 years to complete the reclamation at the
rate of several thousand acres every year.

ZULEIKA, the bride of Abydos, celebrated by Byron, a pure-souled woman of great beauty, who,
in love with Selim, promises to flee with him and become his bride, but her father shoots him,
and she dies of a broken heart.

ZULULAND (181), a territory to the NE. of Natal, from which it is separated by the Tugela,
and of which it was independent till 1898, but it is now an integral part; it is a little larger
than Belgium, is well watered, is capable of cultivation, and has 140 m. of seaboard; it is
understood to possess some mineral wealth, though it has not yet been wrought.

