HENRIETTA'S WISH;

OR, DOMINEERING

By Charlotte M. Yonge

CHAPTER I.

On the afternoon of a warm day in the end of July, an open carriage was waiting in front of
the painted toy-looking building which served as the railway station of Teignmouth. The fine
bay horses stood patiently enduring the attacks of hosts of winged foes, too well-behaved to
express their annoyance otherwise than by twitchings of their sleek shining skins, but duly
grateful to the coachman, who roused himself now and then to whisk off some more pertinacious
tormentor with the end of his whip.

Less patient was the sole occupant of the carriage, a maiden of about sixteen years of age,
whose shady dark grey eyes, parted lips, and flushed complexion, were all full of the utmost
eagerness, as every two or three minutes she looked up from the book which she held in her
hand to examine the clock over the station door, compare it with her watch, and study the countenances
of the bystanders to see whether they expressed any anxiety respecting the non-arrival of the
train. All, however, seemed quite at their ease, and after a time the arrival of the railway
omnibus and two or three other carriages, convinced her that the rest of the world only now
began to consider it to be due. At last the ringing of a bell quickened everybody into a sudden
state of activity, and assured her that the much-desired moment was come. The cloud of smoke
was seen, the panting of the engine was heard, the train displayed its length before the station,
men ran along tapping the doors of the carriages, and shouting a word which bore some distant
resemblance to "Teignmouth," and at the same moment various travellers emerged from the different
vehicles.

Her eye eagerly sought out one of these arrivals, who on his side, after a hasty greeting to
the servant who met him on the platform, hurried to the carriage, and sprang into it. The two
faces, exactly alike in form, complexion, and features, were for one moment pressed together,
then withdrawn, in the consciousness of the publicity of the scene, but the hands remained
locked together, and earnest was the tone of the "Well, Fred!" "Well, Henrietta!" which formed
the greeting of the twin brother and sister.

"And was not mamma well enough to come?" asked Frederick, as the carriage turned away from
the station.

"She was afraid of the heat. She had some business letters to write yesterday, which teased
her, and she has not recovered from them yet; but she has been very well, on the whole, this
summer. But what of your school affairs, Fred? How did the examination go off?"

"I am fourth, and Alex Langford fifth. Every one says the prize will lie between us next year."

"Surely," said Henrietta, "you must be able to beat him then, if you are before him now."

"Don't make too sure, Henrietta," said Frederick, shaking his head, "Langford is a hard-working
fellow, very exact and accurate; I should not have been before him now if it had not been for
my verses."

"I know Beatrice is very proud of Alexander," said Henrietta, "she would make a great deal
of his success."

"Why of his more than of that of any other cousin?" said Frederick with some dissatisfaction.

"O you know he is the only one of the Knight Sutton cousins whom she patronizes; all the others
she calls cubs and bears and Osbaldistones. And indeed, Uncle Geoffrey says he thinks it was
in great part owing to her that Alex is different from the rest. At least he began to think
him worth cultivating from the time he found him and Busy Bee perched up together in an apple-tree,
she telling him the story of Alexander the Great. And how she always talks about Alex when
she is here."

"Is she at Knight Sutton?"

