Before each of the players there was a little pile of fish bones, black with much handling.
The Negro's pile, and that of Jung Sin, were about equal, but there were only two or three
in front of the third player. And just as Allan caught sight of them, the sticks clicked, and
a shrill objurgation burst from that third as the last of his markers were raked in by Jung
Sin's taloned hand. The circle hunched closer, there was a ribald, taunting laugh from Ra-Jamba
and Jung Sin glanced over his shoulder into a shadowed corner.

"Have patience, my lotus flower," he purred. "Only one is left. Soon the goddess of fortune
and love will clear him from my path. By the nine-headed Dragon, I have never seen a game of
Li-Fan last so long. But it draws to an end. Then we shall have our joy together, you and I."

In that instant the fire flared. Allan saw an open window in the background, and beneath it
a slim white form lying, bound and helpless. Fierce joy leaped in him, and fiercer hate, Naomi
was as yet untouched, the game was being played for her as stake. He had come in time to save her! 

Drawers opened and closed, a hurried, panting breath.

Monpavon heard no more, but retraced his steps for the room. The s ferocious
greed had given his pride the alarm. But without God's sake let how me sleep!
let me sleep! " And even
if by some miracle he and Naomi escaped, they would be tracked to Sugar Loaf.

The sticks were clicking in a continuous rattle as the final bout of the game waxed fast and
furious. And as fast and furious was the whirl of Allan's thoughts. He strove to remember the
layout of this building. The helicopter hangar was next above this level. Outside the windows
of this floor a narrow ledge ran. The nebulous scheme that had entered his dazed brain as he
read the bronze plate below took clearer form, shaped itself to meet this new need.

       *       *       *       *       *

Allan crept away to safe distance, leaped to his feet and flitted upward. He was in the empty,
echoing space of the hangar level. The fuel tanks bulged huge in the dimness. Here were reels
of the feed hose he needed--flexible metal that had withstood the years; here a faucet nozzle,
and a long coil of fine wire. Haste driving him, he made the connections. Then he was descending
again, dragging behind him a long black snake of hose whose other end was clamped to a vat
of oxygen impregnated gasoline.

The rustle of the hose along the hall floor was muffled by the greasy slime. Dane got the nozzle
to just outside the door of the room where Naomi lay captive. The rattle of the playing sticks
still continued. Jung Sin's voice sounded, in a language that Allan did not understand. But
there was no mistaking the triumphant note in the silky, jeering tones. The yellow man was
winning, and winning fast.

Dane twisted one end of the wire around the faucet handle. Then he was unwinding the coil as
he tried the door of the chamber next to the one where the fire burned, found it open, darted
across the room and softly raised the sash. The sill here, like the one beneath which Naomi
lay, was a bare two feet above the ground.

He was out on the ledge, sliding along it toward the fire-reddened oblong five feet away. He
crammed his body close against the wall, kept his eyes away from the unfenced edge of that
eighteen-inch shelf. Beyond, an abyss waited, twelve thousand feet of nothingness down which
a single misstep, an instant's vertigo, would send him hurtling. Suddenly the rattle of sticks
stopped, and he heard the black's long howl of disappointed rage. The game was over!

Allan reached the window, glimpsed a leering semicircle of animal faces, saw Jung Sin coming
toward him. Then he had swung in.

"Back, Jung Sin! Back!" Allan was straddled over Naomi's form, the ray-gun thrust out before
his tense threat, his face livid, his eyes blazing. "Get back, or I ray you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Consternation, awe, flashed into the brutal faces of the Easterners. Jung Sin reeled back,
his saffron hands rising. Allan's weapon swept slowly along the line of staring men. "If one
of you moves I flash."

He bent to the girl, keeping his eyes on the Easterners, and his weapon steady. He had hung
the wire coil over his shoulder, leaving his left hand free to fumble for and untie the cords
around Naomi's wrists. He got them loose.

"Can you get your feet free, Naomi?"

"Yes, I can manage it." Her voice was steady, but there was a great thankfulness vibrant in it.

"Then do it and get out on the ledge. Quick." He straightened, and the blaze of his eyes held
the yellow men, and the black, motionless.

Naomi, at the window behind him, gasped. "I know it looks tough," he encouraged her, "but you
can make it. Don't look down. Go to the left. And keep clear of that wire."

"I'm all right, Allan. But you--"

"Never mind about me. Go ahead."

Jung Sin jerked forward, driven by the madness that twisted his face into gargoyle hideousness.
But Allan's ray-gun stabbed at him, and he halted.

"I'm out, Allan."

Dane's foot felt back of him for the sill, found it. He lifted, facing his enemies inexorably,
caught the lintel with his left hand, and was crouching outside. A sidewise flick of his eyes
showed Naomi just reaching the other window.

He pulled at the wire till it was gently taut. A moment's compunction rose in him at what he
was about to do. Then the black roll of the Easterners' crimes rushed into his mind. Naomi's
safety, his own, and that of the little colony that had endured so much to preserve humanity,
cried out for their extinction. Allan jerked the metal thread, and the faucet nozzle in the
corridor opened.

A black stream gushed forward, reached the fire, and the room was a roaring furnace. Allan
saw the forms of his enemies silhouetted against the blaze for a fleeting instant, then they
were flaming statues. Is she awaiting her destiny? A melancholy inevitable, to have travel abroad in
such sunshine, without fear of the night, of the swaying.

       Some one has enter the atelier, a heavy step than Constance'mho rodent-like
trot.

The little servant, undoubtedly. And Felicia says roughly, without
diversion: "go to bed.

I am not at home to any one."

"i should be very glad to speak with you if you were," a noisiness answer immature-naturedly.
She begin, rises, and say in a softer tone, almost laughing at sight
of that unexpected boulevardier: "ah! it's you, madwoman Minerva!

How did you get in?" "very easily.
All the doors are open."

"i am not storm.

Constance
has been like a good always since morning, with her dinner." "yes,
i see.

The reception way is full of flowers. Then an arm was around him, was drawing him back to life. Naomi had darted
back, defying the terror of that height, the surge of heat. She had reached him just in time--a
split-second later and his weight would have been too much for her puny strength. But in this
instant, the merest touch was enough to save him. They crept along the ledge and climbed wearily
in.

There was another plane in the hangar, and presently Allan had it rising through the well into
clean, free air. He turned to the girl in the seat beside him and pointed at the scene they
were leaving.

"Look," he said.

The city was in darkness beneath them, save for the one staring rectangle that marked a pyre.
But dawn shimmered opalescent in the east.

A soft white hand crept into Allan's. There was a long moment of silence. Then Allan said,
softly: "A new day, and a new world for their children."

A sleepy, tired voice sighed: "For their children and ours, Allan."

       *       *       *       *       *