A LONDON LIFE

AND OTHER TALES

A LONDON LIFE

THE PATAGONIA

THE LIAR

MRS. TEMPERLY

BY

HENRY JAMES

London MACMILLAN AND CO. AND NEW YORK 1889

COPYRIGHT 1889

BY

HENRY JAMES

CONTENTS

                  PAGE

A LONDON LIFE        1

THE PATAGONIA      159

THE LIAR           241

MRS. TEMPERLY      317

NOTE

The last of the following four Tales originally appeared under a different name.

A LONDON LIFE

I

It was raining, apparently, but she didn't mind--she would put on stout shoes and walk over
to Plash. She was restless and so fidgety that it was a pain; there were strange voices that
frightened her--they threw out the ugliest intimations--in the empty rooms at home. She would
see old Mrs. Berrington, whom she liked because she was so simple, and old Lady Davenant, who
was staying with her and who was interesting for reasons with which simplicity had nothing
to do. Then she would come back to the children's tea--she liked even better the last half-hour
in the schoolroom, with the bread and butter, the candles and the red fire, the little spasms
of confidence of Miss Steet the nursery-governess, and the society of Scratch and Parson (their
nicknames would have made you think they were dogs) her small, magnificent nephews, whose flesh
was so firm yet so soft and their eyes so charming when they listened to stories. Plash was
the dower-house and about a mile and a half, through the park, from Mellows. It was not raining
after all, though it had been; there was only a grayness in the air, covering all the strong,
rich green, and a pleasant damp, earthy smell, and the walks were smooth and hard, so that
the expedition was not arduous.

The girl had been in England more than a year, but there were some satisfactions she had not
got used to yet nor ceased to enjoy, and one of these was the accessibility, the convenience
of the country. Within the lodge-gates or without them it seemed all alike a park--it was all
so intensely 'property.' The very name of Plash, which was quaint and old, had not lost its
effect upon her, nor had it become indifferent to her that the place was a dower-house--the
little red-walled, ivied asylum to which old Mrs. Berrington had retired when, on his father's
death, her son came into the estates. Laura Wing thought very ill of the custom of the expropriation
of the widow in the evening of her days, when honour and abundance should attend her more than
ever; but her condemnation of this wrong forgot itself when so many of the consequences looked
right--barring a little dampness: which was the fate sooner or later of most of her unfavourable
judgments of English institutions. Iniquities in such a country somehow always made pictures;
and there had been dower-houses in the novels, mainly of fashionable life, on which her later
childhood was fed. But you were young and had a long time and
much land in front, I old and very few fantasies in your head, and no leftover heat in the mass
of blood made many years after one of their own, and yesterday morning, as they say, a bit of anything,
a drink of milk more than the usual, the air a door, gives flight of a mosquito, my mayor
in bed. It took me out of it, and went to enter the tomb. The oak tree was swaying as if it
needed the land that held, or she will take off from the roots, or could not with the weight
of its own branches. And give me the uphill Anseo just look at them, and gladly hand the vent
yesterday implement or the ax with which I amused and the arable land in the dense forest, Today
I asked the paluco the cripple, as the strut supporting the jastial cracked, and Worse than
this, that the mind is singing along with the bones that and hastily and can no longer with
the skin. In short, man, that in no time, and when least expected, say the slump that was to give
later or earlier. Is that the land law which call is yours, and I do not cease to call a few days
ago. Do not be afraid to say that, properly fear, the disturbance which is not silent day or
night, but it's true that at this time would accompanied me more than I see on the solitude
in which I am. Soledad say, because to be all things to these places at the point where it always
was, and being this good people what they always were for me now is that I have lust for something
that gets me deeper than this, through what it is and know where to walk. Yeah, man, yes you of
knowing you that all the law I had my children, and mother and your father and mine, and that
for many years has been as if asleep in the depths of the heart, I was awakened suddenly, aged
in his hunger priming the only meat from our own you know: you, so you know at once. Because
your sister, the distance is from us, is for the case as if no longer alive, and I do not want
to breed our two sobrinazos seconds mine, by my mother, two degustation bigardones bad and
worse to live. Not long ago down from his people asking me "something", at this hour and in such
terms that I had to give the "God you for protection" with the shotgun lying in the face. First and
only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm
tired: I think if we encourage you and give me the gift of your company
in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.

There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant here
is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing the peaks
that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the sun more friendly
of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that I know, and last
settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he was finishing the story for you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free them
for me?

I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership, something
that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no mole at sight with a being that makes
me a little tingling in interlinings of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.

 Lady Davenant was not
as a general thing fond of the young or of invalids; but she made an exception as regards youth
for the little girl from America, the sister of the daughter-in-law of her dearest friend.
She took an interest in Laura partly perhaps to make up for the tepidity with which she regarded
Selina. At all events she had assumed the general responsibility of providing her with a husband.
She pretended to care equally little for persons suffering from other forms of misfortune,
but she was capable of finding excuses for them when they had been sufficiently to blame. She
expected a great deal of attention, always wore gloves in the house and never had anything
in her hand but a book. She neither embroidered nor wrote--only read and talked. She had no
special conversation for girls but generally addressed them in the same manner that she found
effective with her contemporaries. Laura Wing regarded this as an honour, but very often she
didn't know what the old lady meant and was ashamed to ask her. Once in a while Lady Davenant
was ashamed to tell. Mrs. Berrington had gone to a cottage to see an old woman who was ill--an
old woman who had been in her service for years, in the old days. Unlike her friend she was
fond of young people and invalids, but she was less interesting to Laura, except that it was
a sort of fascination to wonder how she could have such abysses of placidity. She had long
cheeks and kind eyes and was devoted to birds; somehow she always made Laura think secretly
of a tablet of fine white soap--nothing else was so smooth and clean.

'And what's going on chez vous--who is there and what are they doing?' Lady Davenant asked,
after the first greetings.

'There isn't any one but me--and the children--and the governess.'

'What, no party--no private theatricals? How do you live?'

'Oh, it doesn't take so much to keep me going,' said Laura. 'I believe there were some people
coming on Saturday, but they have been put off, or they can't come. Selina has gone to London.'

'And what has she gone to London for?'

'Oh, I don't know--she has so many things to do.'

'And where is Mr. Berrington?'

'He has been away somewhere; but I believe he is coming back to-morrow--or next day.'

'Or the day after?' said Lady Davenant. 'And do they never go away together?' she continued
after a pause.

'Yes, sometimes--but they don't come back together.'

'Do you mean they quarrel on the way?'

'I don't know what they do, Lady Davenant--I don't understand,' Laura Wing replied, with an
unguarded tremor in her voice. 'I don't think they are very happy.'

'Then they ought to be ashamed of themselves. They have got everything so comfortable--what
more do they want?'

'Yes, and the children are such dears!'

'Certainly--charming. And is she a good person, the present governess? Does she look after
them properly?'

'Yes--she seems very good--it's a blessing. But I think she's unhappy too.'

'Bless us, what a house! Does she want some one to make love to her?'

'No, but she wants Selina to see--to appreciate,' said the young girl.

'And doesn't she appreciate--when she leaves them that way quite to the young woman?'

'Miss Steet thinks she doesn't notice how they come on--she is never there.'

'And has she wept and told you so? You know they are always crying, governesses--whatever line
you take. You shouldn't draw them out too much--they are always looking for a chance. She ought
to be thankful to be let alone. You mustn't be too sympathetic--it's mostly wasted,' the old
lady went on.

'Oh, I'm not--I assure you I'm not,' said Laura Wing. 'On the contrary, I see so much about
me that I don't sympathise with.'

'Well, you mustn't be an impertinent little American either!' her interlocutress exclaimed.
Laura sat with her for half an hour and the conversation took a turn through the affairs of
Plash and through Lady Davenant's own, which were visits in prospect and ideas suggested more
or less directly by them as well as by the books she had been reading, a heterogeneous pile
on a table near her, all of them new and clean, from a circulating library in London. The old
woman had ideas and Laura liked them, though they often struck her as very sharp and hard,
because at Mellows she had no diet of that sort. There had never been an idea in the house,
since she came at least, and there was wonderfully little reading. Lady Davenant still went
from country-house to country-house all winter, as she had done all her life, and when Laura
asked her she told her the places and the people she probably should find at each of them.
Such an enumeration was much less interesting to the girl than it would have been a year before:
she herself had now seen a great many places and people and the freshness of her curiosity
was gone. But she still cared for Lady Davenant's descriptions and judgments, because they
were the thing in her life which (when she met the old woman from time to time) most represented
talk--the rare sort of talk that was not mere chaff. That was what she had dreamed of before
she came to England, but in Selina's set the dream had not come true. 

Apolonio's telegram said: "Back in Castrofuerte tell me I'm heir fabulous fortune. I'll get
away. We will live a successful life together .-- Peter. "

Bellarmine's telegram said: "I am saved. Peter has saved me.

Peter himself will take you out there and will bring me at once.
We shall all be happy .-- Anguish.

"

Bellarmine is maintained with arms outstretched, but now look at the sky, but Apollonius.

Apolonio hesitate a second, nothing more than a second.

Ineluctable force, a requirement of fate also leads with open arms,
bottle in hand, and tall, aggressive, to Bellarmine.

Bellarmine ahead of his meeting. Belarmino and Apolonio ... embrace in a hug quiet, dark, warm
and fraternal.

- Never have I hated, I swear - says Apollonius, after -.

I've never hated, even if you despised me.

- I've never despised
- Bellarmine murmurs softly.

This is the first time you speak, and you are treated with spontaneity,
because in the mystery chest were close to each other, for many years.

-
I admire you and envy - Apolonio confesses with a blush.

- Me too,
I've been envious - Bellarmine says, frankly.

- You're like my other
half.

- Yes, and you my other figurehead.

(Figurehead = hemisphere.)

- We are united. What I write dramas now.

You will be my inspiration, as Socrates Sophocles what was, at least,
Valeiro and assured me.

Sounds far, the bell that called the refectory.

- Concludes fill the bottle - Bellarmine advised.

- It's true. But I assure you it is the first time I do this.

- I know.

Van arm through the garden of daffodils, wrapped in golden haze of the sun, which produces a
fleeting illusion, as if alleviated the severity of material things.

- But we are not dreaming? - Apollonius asks, yearning -. Barely touch the ground where floor.

- Looks like a dream. The tetrahedron is a dream.

Only true love, goodness, friendship.

Inside the house, the inmates in a row, are waiting to arrive Apollonius
and Bellarmine in order to get to the point up to the dining room
and pastries.

- Where do those crazy walk? - Asks the sister of Dolores.

And out in search of them.

Seeing them come from the bracero, along a path, the nun crosses herself:

- Jesus, Mary and Joseph! Am I dreaming? What miracle is this? It is not sleep, no. It is true .--
Y added, and the pair of them: - Thank God you have been reconciled.

The Lord has touched on the heart. Nothing is more palatable than forgiveness over resentment.
Today, that is a day of glory, I also dare to ask you to forgive me. For years now, and although
the best intentions, I have done suffer. And worse: I have contributed, with my stunning foolish,
to make unhappy Sorrows, perhaps Don Pedrito, and, of course, to you. Well I paid! God forgive
me. Forgive you.

- What Nah, you said there, Felicita?

Nah, you is not simple.

Nah, you, unknowingly, and therefore of handling those years ago,
has been the deus ex machina of this day the happiest day of our life,
Don Pedrito, anguish, Belarmino and mine.

- That's right - Belarmino
said.

And then, musing -. How long?

- What we have left to live - says Apollonius, triggering stage emphatically.

And he congratulated the telegrams show. The sister of Dolores, invaded by grief, almost faint,
puts his hands to the heart.

- Everyone has come when happiness - whispered, as if talking to herself -. To all, but me. Much
should God reward me in another world!

Already incorporated Apollonius and Bellarmine in the two rows of inmates. And move the rows awkwardly,
with bastoneo, coughs and shuffling. Bellarmine walks, as always: head down, smiling and absorbed
in his inner world. Apollonius, as always, and from his youth, go hispid, erect the skull, slowly
and pontifical excellence. In the arms, ostentatious, leads the bottle of Vichy water, apocryphal,
assuming everyone else look with envy that mark of distinction, evidence of wealth and signs of stomach
pain.

EPILOGUE.

THE ESTUDIANTÓN.

Froilan Escobar, alias Aligator Estudiantón and died of starvation, which falls within the logic
immanent things.

He himself had a glimpse of the disastrous end that awaited him, because between notes and notes
left at his death that I read this sentence: "He who devotes his
days and exercise in search of Truth, Goodness and Beauty, is incompatible
with life by at least, life as we find in today's society.

Modern life is denial of Truth, Good and Beauty, and, conversely, the Truth, Goodness and Beauty
are the negation of modern life.

In result, the affiliation in the three categories or waiver to live,
or will be taken as a revolutionary and anarchist.

"Really, who would Escobar seen so wretched plastic forms, so shabby and filthy, never could guess
that the renowned Alligator had professed in the category of Beauty. True the unfortunate allusion
to the supersensible and spiritual beauty, not to the physical and perishable. Anyway, had to
be fatally starve. But the strange, paradoxical, is that died at home of a butcher named Serapio,
who had collected for charity. The Matachine Free gave a closet with a bunk, where shelter,
and some falls, debris or scraps of meat, kind of Cordilla, to eat. Unfortunately, Escobar was
herbivorous, and repelled the flesh to such an extent that before eating it was left to die of
starvation. What Escobar and Serapio contrast! The butcher, so plump and red looked like a beef
skinning, was to incorporate more corporeal human body in its most
material.

Escobar, yellow, blue, resonant, almost ethereal, spiritualized was
the projection of spirit people in their transit through the mud corporeal.

At

death, Escobar left wealth of writings, mostly letters and sketches. I was lucky see them and
examine them, before the throw to Serapio trash bin. Some of the thoughts, expressed in concise
form, I was amazed and filled with perplexity. For example:

"The two historical facts harmful to the advancement of pure science and the final rule of culture
were the invention of paper and the invention of printing. "

"If instead of writing reams of paper to write on a sheet of parchment diminished, deserves to be read
then, because they do not write but write what he deserved. "

"All public libraries should close."

"The most stupid thing I read is this sentence from Carlyle: The best university in these times
is a library. I reply: The best university would be a barracks. I mean a culture socialized
and enforced in the manner of military discipline. Military discipline is abominable because it
is undeveloped. Modern culture is abhorrent because it is undisciplined. Nobody has the right
to have more culture than it deserves, according to their abilities
and social function that is to be used.

In the current state of the culture there that are simple generalísimos
ranchers and, conversely, there are miserable ranchers great spark
gifted, frustrated men and undervalued, which had been generalísimos
own right, if there is proper cultural organization barracks.

"

It seems to me that in writing the above lines, Escobar thought Belarmino and Apolonio.

As I was reading the drafts of the Alligator, I could only remember the great gift Amaranth
Fraile. What states and what the two characters opposite! Were in the relationship the two poles
of an axis. One was the self-taught, the other is the dogmatist. Both were suffering sciendi
libido, lust for knowledge, scientific lust.

I mention here Escobar's posthumous papers, not because I have reminded Don Amaranth but because
they speak of Belarmino and Apolonio, and particularly one who provided me interesting and
useful document, which the reader can also take advantage.

Copy everything that came up with Escobar on the two shoemakers, it would be annoying. Be moving
only some outlandish opinions. "Bellarmine had to invent their language because it lacked instruction,
reading. Have read since childhood variety of classical authors How would come to speak and write
Bellarmine? Max Muller repeated countless times, and evidenced by many others, that thought and
language are identical. By the author's style becomes aware of his intelligence, metaphorical
style, haughty style, archaic style, cut style, style naked plain style, exquisite style, colorful
style, style abstract, etc.., etc., all of them, each in itself, show limited intelligence and lack
of thought. The completeness and merging all of them, dominating every way according to reason
thought: Cervantes, the Spanish first thinker. "

And later:

"The primary quality of the playwright (read Apollonius) is the ability for effective simulation.
This simulation is not skin deep and surface. The playwright, from the depths of his own soul,
begins to pretend to himself, but the more obscure and personal ego remains and inhibited always
absent of emotion. So the playwright is unable to truly love. There is a paradox of the playwright,
is the same as Diderot called paradox of the actor. The communicates emotion, but that is raised.
To provoke an emotion must be kept cold. They mourn the actors who can fake tears. Those who cry
in earnest, make you laugh. The same with the playwright. The drama created the kind of man
that causes love at all women, because he pretends to love, but no love: Don Juan. The playwright
goes through life inventing dramas, dramas discovered. It would seem that this gift of invention
(inventing means to discover) that comes from living playwright drama. On the contrary. The
living do not see the drama drama sees his individual drama. And if the playwright if he happens
to be a victim in a drama vivo, it remains balanced, serene. Pretend to be an actor forever,
and always the spectator, viewer himself. Such is the paradox of the playwright. Anyone who
drives through life with gestures pathetic accent is a simulator,
a playwright in the making.

These men are necessary in the world, because without that failed passion will naturally contagious
humanity would end, apathy and wisdom. But alas, if these men predominated, whose marrow VIP is
an absence, a void, a bubble, as seen in the levels, bubble hardly able to focus ... and if this
kind of male-dominated, humanity, each more swollen and empty, burst, like the frog who wanted to
equal the ox. Providentially against the playwright is the philosopher (read Bellarmine). The
philosopher is constituted the inverse of the playwright. On the outside, calm, impassive,
in the most secret, burning unquenchable. The philosopher is a madman preserved in ice. Because the
ice is the great conservative, and to the passions for things like groceries, that once they
are removed air and light to get stale, stale. The philosopher lives all the dramas, never is the
viewer. Feels the pain of others as their own suffering, the pain multiplies it by himself all the
pain outside, and so in pain as the alien himself experiences this and that contact embers of
the bonfire pain is universal, the drama of life. The playwright, who suffers its last and shameful
emptiness, rushes to the surface, appears to emphatic extent, as the caster, and it spells the passion
and frenzy. Passion Search corrective imagined the intimate apathy. Moreover, as the inside
can not mourn, outside fails to smile. The philosopher, on the other hand, looking in apathy,
in serenity, in the wisdom, a corrective to the overwhelming passion hidden. That is the sophrosyne.
The weeping philosopher smile inside and out. When the philosopher is reached when the drama,
the drama is so intense that it feels like to be destroyed, not his own heart, but the whole
universe, and no longer exists. It is the ultimate apathy and indifference ataraxia. But the philosopher
needs the playwright, not to be sterile or perish. And the playwright needs the philosopher for
not be vain or disappear. Sophocles needs of Socrates, Sophocles and Socrates needs. The Socratic
dialogues are dramatic and sofóclitos dialogues are philosophical
background.

"

Something like that of Socrates and Sophocles Apollonius told him to Bellarmine in the asylum
and in quite dramatic circumstances, which makes me believe that
Escobar and Apollonius had reached to be friends, and the cobbler
was inspired by the theories of Estudiantón.

Be observed that these theories are entirely opposite to those of
Don Amaranth.

For Don Amaranth, playwright is entering the individual drama, and the philosopher, who was away
from him. For Escobar, which enters the drama is the philosopher, and playwright is the remaining
distance. Baffling disparity and contrast of human opinions! The doctrine of Don Amaranth is refutable,
and no less defensible, and another of Escobar. And in short, all human opinions. The error
of those who call for a human opinion possesses absolute truth. Just be true in part, to enclose
a powder or a nugget of truth. When a search engine Gold says it has struck gold, it implies
that has taken over all the gold keep the bowels of the earth, but that which has struck gold, some
gold.

So true Don may be the Amaranth as Escobar, and between truth and
Don Escobar Amaranth extend infinitely countless other truths intermediate,
which is what mathematicians call the ultracontinuo.

Irreducible truths as there are so many views.

I wanted present, about Belarmino and Apolonio, the views of Mr.
Amaranth and Escobar, because clearly documented including all others,
as being the most antithetical, are the most comprehensive.

And singularly I have appealed to science and teaching of these gentlemen,
to hide that face Belarmino and Apolonio, and I have had no point
of view.

Belarmino and Apolonio have existed, and I have loved.

I'm not saying they have existed in the flesh on the face of the
earth have been around for me and for me.

That's it. Exist, multiply and love.

Above I alluded to an interesting and useful document Escobar left
among his posthumous papers: is a complete glossary of all words and
terms that Bellarmine was served, accompanied the sense that he used
them.

I have culled, for convenience, those that reader has already heard
Bellarmine, which are appended to this volume.

The vocabulary has been collected by the following lines Escobar Preliminary

"Max
Müller says that placing the twenty-three or twenty-four letters of
the alphabet in all possible combinations would be obtained all the
words that have been used in all world languages ​​and all have been
employed.

Taking twenty-three letters as a basis, the number of words would be: 25,852,016,738,884,976,640,000,
and twenty-four basis: 620,448,401,733,239,439,360,000.

Bellarmine did not use such wealth lexical, or even is close to Dante,
Shakespeare and Cervantes, which used thousands of words.

Belarmino was about five hundred.

I remember reading somewhere that Racine in his writings 400-voice
was not, to be his language so ductile, fine and nuanced.

"

FIN

Valdenebro Valleys, Valladolid.

August-September 1920.

APPENDIX

GLOSSARY OF SOME VOICES BELARMINIANO

PET friendly .-- Feeling suspicious,
as is done to encourage and cajole some animals.

ILLITERACY .-- Indifferent, impartial, unbiased intellectuals.

.--
Belligerent Opposition contrast.

Adversity, misfortune.

Contrary .-- BELLIGERENT, opposite.

KISS .-- Envy. Comes the kiss of Judas.

COCOON .-- Smile.

GUESTS .-- Man as he lives, because they need to eat to live.

Refers to the low need materials to suppress the full life of the
spirit.

CLASS .-- Conduct. The men were classified according to their behavior.

CHISGARABÍS .-- Quid.

When you give the gist of things is something you see simple, simple,
mild escapadizo, a chisgarabís.

Commercials Discover the profound truth .-- the cause.

Cause .-- NUDE latter explanation.

Belarmino said the devil is God naked.

ECUMENICAL .-- Conciliation synthesis.

JAIL .-- Understanding, to become owner of one concept.

DISPOSAL .-- Run, do light work or clarity of view, to illuminate.

Opinion .-- Scholasticate provided and fluctuating.

SCHOLASTIC .-- The following opinions of others, as the tail follows
the animal's body.

Pessimistic .-- Scurvy. Crow comes.

Placer .-- Spasmodic, happy.

Give importance .-- BILL arbitrary, capricious appreciate what has
no price or importance.

BALLOON .-- Vanity.

GREECE .-- Wisdom.

SCHEDULE .-- Sphere.

CLOTHING .-- The external
and superficial.

INQUISITION .-- Pain.

INSTRUMENTAL .-- The useful
and effective.

INTENT .-- Reason. Our reasons are our intentions
secret.

Intuition .-- Estate and familiarity with a topic. Worth
as much as you try. The opposite is healthy, or hear far from shaking.

Hump
​​- Responsibility, because bulky, heavy and obtrusive.

LENS .--
Body. Everything is under the eye of the beholder.

STRIKING .-- Burning,
flaming.

Haggard .-- Violent and forceful, as he rushes with a mallet.

MADRONA
.-- Virgin Mother, who conceived by the Holy Ghost.

MAREMAGNUM .--
Ideal, a compendium of all things.

Metempsicosis .-- intricacies,
the essence of things.

Orthodoxy .-- PARADOX.

Paraphrase .-- Understanding.

Patatin,
POTATOES .-- Evil Everything that is wrong is endowed with circumlocution.

WEIGHT
.-- Feeling serious.

WEAR AND QUITO .-- Disdain.

Postema .-- System
theory, dead tumor that forms within a living body.

PROHIJAR .--
Love for love will, not by demand of the blood.

PROJECTILE .-- Nonsense,
because shoots under design or project, and always causes damage.

POSTPARTUM
pain .-- Prolific.

RECREATED .-- Uncreated and produces great enjoyment
or recreation; applied in the light or hearth.

WATER .-- Vision of
unity, cover his eyes. Looking at them, things cool off and developed.

RIDICULOUS
.-- Eccentric, out of its own end.

Attenuated Expression .-- SPRAY
water.

Knowledge .-- HEALTHY light, as opposed to intuition. Greeting
comes and says that the knowledge although superficial, is always
convenient.

SAPO .-- Wise. Wisdom is acquired through ecstasy. The
frog is a symbol of ecstasy.

SYSTEM .-- stubbornness, obstinacy.
It refers to those who walk around with the same subject, yes is subject.

Light
.-- SOLERA ultimate source of light. Comes from the sun.

TAS, TAS,
TAS .-- The death, the last beats: the hammer on the coffin.

Theistic
.-- Incendiary, wielding the torch.

TETRAHEDRON .-- The whole.

TOLE
TOLE .-- The life, constant anxiety, the flutter of the passions.

TRIS,
AFTER .-- Good. What is right is short and the executive as a block.

Jam
session .-- Nonsense, only fools dropped.

CONTENTS

PREFACE .-- The
philosopher of the guesthouses.

CHAPTER ONE .-- Don Guillén and the
Pinta.

CHAPTER II .-- Ruera Street, seen from two sides.

CHAPTER
III .-- Belarmino and daughter.

CHAPTER IV .-- Apollonius and his
son.

CHAPTER V. - The philosopher and playwright.

CHAPTER VI .--
The drama and philosophy.

CHAPTER VII .-- Peter and Angus.

CHAPTER
VIII .-- aeterni Sub specie.

EPILOGUE .-- The Estudiantón.

APPENDIX
.-- Some voices belarminiano lexicon. She did not dislike her brother-in-law, though she admired him scantily, and
she pitied him; but she marvelled at the waste involved in some human institutions (the English
country gentry for instance) when she perceived that it had taken so much to produce so little.
The sweet old wainscoted parlour, the view of the garden that reminded her of scenes in Shakespeare's
comedies, all that was exquisite in the home of his forefathers--what visible reference was
there to these fine things in poor Lionel's stable-stamped composition? When she came in this
evening and saw his small sons making competitive noises in their mugs (Miss Steet checked
this impropriety on her entrance) she asked herself what they would have to show twenty years
later for the frame that made them just then a picture. Would they be wonderfully ripe and
noble, the perfection of human culture? The contrast was before her again, the sense of the
same curious duplicity (in the literal meaning of the word) that she had felt at Plash--the
way the genius of such an old house was all peace and decorum and the spirit that prevailed
there, outside of the schoolroom, was contentious and impure. She had often been struck with
it before--with that perfection of machinery which can still at certain times make English
life go on of itself with a stately rhythm long after there is corruption within it.

She had half a purpose of asking Miss Steet to dine with her that evening downstairs, so absurd
did it seem to her that two young women who had so much in common (enough at least for that)
should sit feeding alone at opposite ends of the big empty house, melancholy on such a night.
She would not have cared just now whether Selina did think such a course familiar: she indulged
sometimes in a kind of angry humility, placing herself near to those who were laborious and
sordid. But when she observed how much cold meat the governess had already consumed she felt
that it would be a vain form to propose to her another repast. She sat down with her and presently,
in the firelight, the two children had placed themselves in position for a story. They were
dressed like the mariners of England and they smelt of the ablutions to which they had been
condemned before tea and the odour of which was but partly overlaid by that of bread and butter.
Scratch wanted an old story and Parson a new, and they exchanged from side to side a good many
powerful arguments. While they were so engaged Miss Steet narrated at her visitor's invitation
the walk she had taken with them and revealed that she had been thinking for a long time of
asking Mrs. Berrington--if she only had an opportunity--whether she should approve of her giving
them a few elementary notions of botany. But the opportunity had not come--she had had the
idea for a long time past. She was rather fond of the study herself; she had gone into it a
little--she seemed to intimate that there had been times when she extracted a needed comfort
from it. Laura suggested that botany might be a little dry for such young children in winter,
from text-books--that the better way would be perhaps to wait till the spring and show them
out of doors, in the garden, some of the peculiarities of plants. To this Miss Steet rejoined
that her idea had been to teach some of the general facts slowly--it would take a long time--and
then they would be all ready for the spring. She spoke of the spring as if it would not arrive
for a terribly long time. She had hoped to lay the question before Mrs. Berrington that week--but
was it not already Thursday? Laura said, 'Oh yes, you had better do anything with the children
that will keep them profitably occupied;' she came very near saying anything that would occupy
the governess herself.

She had rather a dread of new stories--it took the little boys so long to get initiated and
the first steps were so terribly bestrewn with questions. Receptive silence, broken only by
an occasional rectification on the part of the listener, never descended until after the tale
had been told a dozen times. The matter was settled for 'Riquet with the Tuft,' but on this
occasion the girl's heart was not much in the entertainment. The children stood on either side
of her, leaning against her, and she had an arm round each; their little bodies were thick
and strong and their voices had the quality of silver bells. Their mother had certainly gone
too far; but there was nevertheless a limit to the tenderness one could feel for the neglected,
compromised bairns. It was difficult to take a sentimental view of them--they would never take
such a view of themselves. Geordie would grow up to be a master-hand at polo and care more
for that pastime than for anything in life, and Ferdy perhaps would develop into 'the best
shot in England.' Laura felt these possibilities stirring within them; they were in the things
they said to her, in the things they said to each other. At any rate they would never reflect
upon anything in the world. They contradicted each other on a question of ancestral history
to which their attention apparently had been drawn by their nurse, whose people had been tenants
for generations. Their grandfather had had the hounds for fifteen years--Ferdy maintained that
he had always had them. Geordie ridiculed this idea, like a man of the world; he had had them
till he went into volunteering--then he had got up a magnificent regiment, he had spent thousands
of pounds on it. Ferdy was of the opinion that this was wasted money--he himself intended to
have a real regiment, to be a colonel in the Guards. Geordie looked as if he thought that a
superficial ambition and could see beyond it; his own most definite view was that he would
have back the hounds. He didn't see why papa didn't have them--unless it was because he wouldn't
take the trouble.

'I know--it's because mamma is an American!' Ferdy announced, with confidence.

'And what has that to do with it?' asked Laura.

'Mamma spends so much money--there isn't any more for anything!'

This startling speech elicited an alarmed protest from Miss Steet; she blushed and assured
Laura that she couldn't imagine where the child could have picked up such an extraordinary
idea. 'I'll look into it--you may be sure I'll look into it,' she said; while Laura told Ferdy
that he must never, never, never, under any circumstances, either utter or listen to a word
that should be wanting in respect to his mother.

'If any one should say anything against any of my people I would give him a good one!' Geordie
shouted, with his hands in his little blue pockets.

'I'd hit him in the eye!' cried Ferdy, with cheerful inconsequence.

'Perhaps you don't care to come to dinner at half-past seven,' the girl said to Miss Steet;
'but I should be very glad--I'm all alone.'

'Thank you so much. All alone, really?' murmured the governess.

'Why don't you get married? then you wouldn't be alone,' Geordie interposed, with ingenuity.

'Children, you are really too dreadful this evening!' Miss Steet exclaimed.

'I shan't get married--I want to have the hounds,' proclaimed Geordie, who had apparently been
much struck with his brother's explanation.

'I will come down afterwards, about half-past eight, if you will allow me,' said Miss Steet,
looking conscious and responsible.

'Very well--perhaps we can have some music; we will try something together.'

'Oh, music--we don't go in for music!' said Geordie, with clear superiority; and while he spoke
Laura saw Miss Steet get up suddenly, looking even less alleviated than usual. The door of
the room had been pushed open and Lionel Berrington stood there. He had his hat on and a cigar
in his mouth and his face was red, which was its common condition. He took off his hat as he
came into the room, but he did not stop smoking and he turned a little redder than before.
There were several ways in which his sister-in-law often wished he had been very different,
but she had never disliked him for a certain boyish shyness that was in him, which came out
in his dealings with almost all women. The governess of his children made him uncomfortable
and Laura had already noticed that he had the same effect upon Miss Steet. He was fond of his
children, but he saw them hardly more frequently than their mother and they never knew whether
he were at home or away. Indeed his goings and comings were so frequent that Laura herself
scarcely knew: it was an accident that on this occasion his absence had been marked for her.
Selina had had her reasons for wishing not to go up to town while her husband was still at
Mellows, and she cherished the irritating belief that he stayed at home on purpose to watch
her--to keep her from going away. It was her theory that she herself was perpetually at home--that
few women were more domestic, more glued to the fireside and absorbed in the duties belonging
to it; and unreasonable as she was she recognised the fact that for her to establish this theory
she must make her husband sometimes see her at Mellows. It was not enough for her to maintain
that he would see her if he were sometimes there himself. Therefore she disliked to be caught
in the crude fact of absence--to go away under his nose; what she preferred was to take the
next train after his own and return an hour or two before him. She managed this often with
great ability, in spite of her not being able to be sure when he would return. Of late however
she had ceased to take so much trouble, and Laura, by no desire of the girl's own, was enough
in the confidence of her impatiences and perversities to know that for her to have wished (four
days before the moment I write of) to put him on a wrong scent--or to keep him at least off
the right one--she must have had something more dreadful than usual in her head. This was why
the girl had been so nervous and why the sense of an impending catastrophe, which had lately
gathered strength in her mind, was at present almost intolerably pressing: she knew how little
Selina could afford to be more dreadful than usual.

Lionel startled her by turning up in that unexpected way, though she could not have told herself
when it would have been natural to expect him. This attitude, at Mellows, was left to the servants,
most of them inscrutable and incommunicative and erect in a wisdom that was founded upon telegrams--you
couldn't speak to the butler but he pulled one out of his pocket. It was a house of telegrams;
they crossed each other a dozen times an hour, coming and going, and Selina in particular lived
in a cloud of them. Laura had but vague ideas as to what they were all about; once in a while,
when they fell under her eyes, she either failed to understand them or judged them to be about
horses. There were an immense number of horses, in one way and another, in Mrs. Berrington's
life. Then she had so many friends, who were always rushing about like herself and making appointments
and putting them off and wanting to know if she were going to certain places or whether she
would go if they did or whether she would come up to town and dine and 'do a theatre.' There
were also a good many theatres in the existence of this busy lady. Laura remembered how fond
their poor father had been of telegraphing, but it was never about the theatre: at all events
she tried to give her sister the benefit or the excuse of heredity. Selina had her own opinions,
which were superior to this--she once remarked to Laura that it was idiotic for a woman to
write--to telegraph was the only way not to get into trouble. If doing so sufficed to keep
a lady out of it Mrs. Berrington's life should have flowed like the rivers of Eden.

III

Laura, as soon as her brother-in-law had been in the room a moment, had a particular fear;
she had seen him twice noticeably under the influence of liquor; she had not liked it at all
and now there were some of the same signs. She was afraid the children would discover them,
or at any rate Miss Steet, and she felt the importance of not letting him stay in the room.
She thought it almost a sign that he should have come there at all--he was so rare an apparition.
He looked at her very hard, smiling as if to say, 'No, no, I'm not--not if you think it!' She
perceived with relief in a moment that he was not very bad, and liquor disposed him apparently
to tenderness, for he indulged in an interminable kissing of Geordie and Ferdy, during which
Miss Steet turned away delicately, looking out of the window. The little boys asked him no
questions to celebrate his return--they only announced that they were going to learn botany,
to which he replied: 'Are you, really? Why, I never did,' and looked askance at the governess,
blushing as if to express the hope that she would let him off from carrying that subject further.
To Laura and to Miss Steet he was amiably explanatory, though his explanations were not quite
coherent. He had come back an hour before--he was going to spend the night--he had driven over
from Churton--he was thinking of taking the last train up to town. Was Laura dining at home?
Was any one coming? He should enjoy a quiet dinner awfully.

'Certainly I'm alone,' said the girl. 'I suppose you know Selina is away.'

'Oh yes--I know where Selina is!' And Lionel Berrington looked round, smiling at every one
present, including Scratch and Parson. He stopped while he continued to smile and Laura wondered
what he was so much pleased at. She preferred not to ask--she was sure it was something that
wouldn't give her pleasure; but after waiting a moment her brother-in-law went on: 'Selina's
in Paris, my dear; that's where Selina is!'

'In Paris?' Laura repeated.

'Yes, in Paris, my dear--God bless her! Where else do you suppose? Geordie my boy, where should
you think your mummy would naturally be?'

'Oh, I don't know,' said Geordie, who had no reply ready that would express affectingly the
desolation of the nursery. 'If I were mummy I'd travel.'

'Well now that's your mummy's idea--she has gone to travel,' returned the father. 'Were you
ever in Paris, Miss Steet?'

Miss Steet gave a nervous laugh and said No, but she had been to Boulogne; while to her added
confusion Ferdy announced that he knew where Paris was--it was in America. 'No, it ain't--it's
in Scotland!' cried Geordie; and Laura asked Lionel how he knew--whether his wife had written
to him.

'Written to me? when did she ever write to me? No, I saw a fellow in town this morning who
saw her there--at breakfast yesterday. He came over last night. That's how I know my wife's
in Paris. You can't have better proof than that!'

'I suppose it's a very pleasant season there,' the governess murmured, as if from a sense of
duty, in a distant, discomfortable tone.

'I daresay it's very pleasant indeed--I daresay it's awfully amusing!' laughed Mr. Berrington.
'Shouldn't you like to run over with me for a few days, Laura--just to have a go at the theatres?
I don't see why we should always be moping at home. We'll take Miss Steet and the children
and give mummy a pleasant surprise. Now who do you suppose she was with, in Paris--who do you
suppose she was seen with?'

Laura had turned pale, she looked at him hard, imploringly, in the eyes: there was a name she
was terribly afraid he would mention. 'Oh sir, in that case we had better go and get ready!'
Miss Steet quavered, betwixt a laugh and a groan, in a spasm of discretion; and before Laura
knew it she had gathered Geordie and Ferdy together and swept them out of the room. The door
closed behind her with a very quick softness and Lionel remained a moment staring at it.

'I say, what does she mean?--ain't that damned impertinent?' he stammered. 'What did she think
I was going to say? Does she suppose I would say any harm before--before her? Dash it, does
she suppose I would give away my wife to the servants?' Then he added, 'And I wouldn't say
any harm before you, Laura. You are too good and too nice and I like you too much!'

'Won't you come downstairs? won't you have some tea?' the girl asked, uneasily.

'No, no, I want to stay here--I like this place,' he replied, very gently and reasoningly.
'It's a deuced nice place--it's an awfully jolly room. It used to be this way--always--when
I was a little chap. I was a rough one, my dear; I wasn't a pretty little lamb like that pair.
I think it's because you look after them--that's what makes 'em so sweet. The one in my time--what
was her name? I think it was Bald or Bold--I rather think she found me a handful. I used to
kick her shins--I was decidedly vicious. And do you see it's kept so well, Laura?' he went
on, looking round him. ''Pon my soul, it's the prettiest room in the house. What does she want
to go to Paris for when she has got such a charming house? Now can you answer me that, Laura?'

'I suppose she has gone to get some clothes: her dressmaker lives in Paris, you know.'

'Dressmaker? Clothes? Why, she has got whole rooms full of them. Hasn't she got whole rooms
full of them?'

'Speaking of clothes I must go and change mine,' said Laura. 'I have been out in the rain--I
have been to Plash--I'm decidedly damp.'

'Oh, you have been to Plash? You have seen my mother? I hope she's in very good health.' But
before the girl could reply to this he went on: 'Now, I want you to guess who she's in Paris
with. Motcomb saw them together--at that place, what's his name? close to the Madeleine.' And
as Laura was silent, not wishing at all to guess, he continued--'It's the ruin of any woman,
you know; I can't think what she has got in her head.' Still Laura said nothing, and as he
had hold of her arm, she having turned away, she led him this time out of the room. She had
a horror of the name, the name that was in her mind and that was apparently on his lips, though
his tone was so singular, so contemplative. 'My dear girl, she's with Lady Ringrose--what do
you say to that?' he exclaimed, as they passed along the corridor to the staircase.

'With Lady Ringrose?'

'They went over on Tuesday--they are knocking about there alone.'

'I don't know Lady Ringrose,' Laura said, infinitely relieved that the name was not the one
she had feared. Lionel leaned on her arm as they went downstairs.

'I rather hope not--I promise you she has never put her foot in this house! If Selina expects
to bring her here I should like half an hour's notice; yes, half an hour would do. She might
as well be seen with----' And Lionel Berrington checked himself. 'She has had at least fifty----'
And again he stopped short. 'You must pull me up, you know, if I say anything you don't like!'

'I don't understand you--let me alone, please!' the girl broke out, disengaging herself with
an effort from his arm. She hurried down the rest of the steps and left him there looking after
her, and as she went she heard him give an irrelevant laugh.

IV

She determined not to go to dinner--she wished for that day not to meet him again. He would
drink more--he would be worse--she didn't know what he might say. Besides she was too angry--not
with him but with Selina--and in addition to being angry she was sick. She knew who Lady Ringrose
was; she knew so many things to-day that when she was younger--and only a little--she had not
expected ever to know. Her eyes had been opened very wide in England and certainly they had
been opened to Lady Ringrose. She had heard what she had done and perhaps a good deal more,
and it was not very different from what she had heard of other women. She knew Selina had been
to her house; she had an impression that her ladyship had been to Selina's, in London, though
she herself had not seen her there. But she had not known they were so intimate as that--that
Selina would rush over to Paris with her. What they had gone to Paris for was not necessarily
criminal; there were a hundred reasons, familiar to ladies who were fond of change, of movement,
of the theatres and of new bonnets; but nevertheless it was the fact of this little excursion
quite as much as the companion that excited Laura's disgust.

She was not ready to say that the companion was any worse, though Lionel appeared to think
so, than twenty other women who were her sister's intimates and whom she herself had seen in
London, in Grosvenor Place, and even under the motherly old beeches at Mellows. But she thought
it unpleasant and base in Selina to go abroad that way, like a commercial traveller, capriciously,
clandestinely, without giving notice, when she had left her to understand that she was simply
spending three or four days in town. It was bad taste and bad form, it was cabotin and had
the mark of Selina's complete, irremediable frivolity--the worst accusation (Laura tried to
cling to that opinion) that she laid herself open to. Of course frivolity that was never ashamed
of itself was like a neglected cold--you could die of it morally as well as of anything else.
Laura knew this and it was why she was inexpressibly vexed with her sister. She hoped she should
get a letter from Selina the next morning (Mrs. Berrington would show at least that remnant
of propriety) which would give her a chance to despatch her an answer that was already writing
itself in her brain. It scarcely diminished Laura's eagerness for such an opportunity that
she had a vision of Selina's showing her letter, laughing, across the table, at the place near
the Madeleine, to Lady Ringrose (who would be painted--Selina herself, to do her justice, was
not yet) while the French waiters, in white aprons, contemplated ces dames. It was new work
for our young lady to judge of these shades--the gradations, the probabilities of license,
and of the side of the line on which, or rather how far on the wrong side, Lady Ringrose was
situated.

A quarter of an hour before dinner Lionel sent word to her room that she was to sit down without
him--he had a headache and wouldn't appear. This was an unexpected grace and it simplified
the position for Laura; so that, smoothing her ruffles, she betook herself to the table. Before
doing this however she went back to the schoolroom and told Miss Steet she must contribute
her company. She took the governess (the little boys were in bed) downstairs with her and made
her sit opposite, thinking she would be a safeguard if Lionel were to change his mind. Miss
Steet was more frightened than herself--she was a very shrinking bulwark. The dinner was dull
and the conversation rare; the governess ate three olives and looked at the figures on the
spoons. Laura had more than ever her sense of impending calamity; a draught of misfortune seemed
to blow through the house; it chilled her feet under her chair. All the eyes of the traveler is wild and solemn. There are walks along the bottom
deep gorges, or skirts above wrinkled, which will link in tortuous turns, leading the traveler from
one surprise. Wherever colossal rise cliffs as a single piece of dark ink and fearful aspect, now
in their flanks torn landslide, now naked as towers or bastions of titanic strength, or covered
weeds and pine forests decimated by the hurricanes.

Shortly after you reach the climax of these gorges lone, determined the opposite direction of the
river systems. The Black Water-basin, stream tormented below its waters to meet the Trient,
opens there in all its wild beauty of landscapes, enclosed between the mountains of Brevent, which
will end in Balme, and that, starting in it snowed the Needles-Rojas, head north to finish in
the Valley Rhone, presenting in its course the beautiful snowy Buet and the group of mountains
called Tooth or Muela-the-South. The creek, Black Water (L'eau-noire) struck down and sparkling
by a deep bed, interrupted by large granite boulders and banks black clay shale that give it
its murky color. Wherever the most romantic multiply groups of hills, wrinkled skirts, very
profound and cavernous gullies and steep cliffs, among them, the roar of many waterfalls in the shade
of natural forest fir and at the bottom of beautiful miniature meadows, delaying some poor
villages in most picturesque situations.

That is the Valorsina, living village rocked by rumors of "Black Water,
which receives the tribute of Barberina, torrent short distance the
road holds the iris of a beautiful waterfall 100 meters high.

Soon begins the territory of the Swiss canton Valleys (Valais). The passes back via dreadful,
bordering the great hill of Great Gradería (Le Gros-Perron), base of the peak having the name
"Head-Black." The road opened to peak at the huge rock on the edge of abysses that frighten,
from up to a cave carved laboriously long honor to the Swiss, who show High interest in the
ways of communication. Returning a bend in the gorge is the union of the narrow throat, or
basins of water, Black and Trient, stream descending setentrional end of the mountains which form
the Mont Blanc chain.

Two hours later, when saved Forclaz neck (to 1.516 meters high), the traveler loses sight of that
great chain of mountains that left behind, to the south, the forests
Via fir disappear completely, the barren gorges, cliffs, chasms and
streams deep away, the picture offered in the eyes of passers is entirely
different which has been referred to with awe: it is sunny, peaceful
and grandiose at the same time.

The Savoy has ended and the Swiss country, full of charm and majesty, has its contrasts rich and
complicated colossal mountains and valleys and steep. It is the city which Vallesina there captivates
the eye.

The canton of Valais valleys or is between two large chains of the Alps: the which continues
south of Mont Blanc and, based limits between Italy and Switzerland,
is to bifurcate in the hills that separate Gries, Fibi, and Mutthorn,
spreading thence to the cantons Ticino, Graubünden and the Valleys
to the north and follows the huge knot of mountains Diechterhorn called,
where he has his sources, the Rhone, and the general name of "Alpes
Bernese 'will end up with one of its branches in the buttresses of
the Diablerets, near Lake Geneva, between the cantons of Vaud and
valleys.

The vast basin of such intermediate big chains is the upper Rhone, comprising the entire Canton
of which I speak. Its territory is of hydrography and topography as bifurcated or complex, which actually
is a set of 41 more or less significant valleys, crisscrossed by rivers all converge towards
the central valley of the Rhone. This multiplication of abutments, valleys and rivers almost parallel
to each other and perpendicular to the line of the Rhone, matching the stupendous mountains
that serve as the generating element of the mountain system, gives the canton of Valais, seen
from above, the most varied, interesting and picturesque. The canton, which is the third of the
Confederation for its territorial extension, numbers about 90.800 inhabitants and measures 178
kilometers long from east to west, by a latitude of 17 km from south to north.

The Valais is relatively one of the poorest cantons of the Confederation, and under one aspect
the less fortunate. Exclusively agricultural as it is, lacks its own industry and trade; although
economic development will be significant and, by virtue of the railway, starting the shores
of Lake Leman and tracing the course of the Rhone, is now coming to Zion (the capital of Canton)
and will be continued until we reached the Upper Italy via the Simplon. Not too late you can
go from Paris to Milan by train, through all the mountains of Switzerland (Jura, the Alps, etc..)
and the High Italian.

The vines or the production of wine, soft usually form the basis of agriculture Vallesina, and
secondly cereals vegetables and fruits, grains and the modest offspring of cattle.

The city of the Valley is, alas, the classic country of the box and the idiocy, diseases horrible,
especially the second, they have there the most distressing character. Perhaps this dreadful calamity
(as in the whole world is a chain of compensation) is the leading cause of the virtues that distinguish
Vallesina. The feeling of love and brotherhood is there deep, and the sweet and gracious spirit
of hospitality is proverbial and common. The sad show idiots (cretins) beings who, if allowed
a rude phrase and may seem ungodly, could be appointed with the very
precise name of the eggs moved human species that show, I say, is
deeply painful for the observer philanthropist.

Those beings born to the inaction, the fetus until the time of death, in whom all faculties of the
soul and heart seem to be absent or in eternal sleep, as if God had denied his ineffable breath,
and inert mass whose sun itself seems to be powerless to produce an emotion, have led naturally very
tender solicitude to perpetuate itself sweetest inclinations. The need to assist and care for
these creatures without life, as blessed, and the humility of character that the curb and have
inspired idiocy peaceful inhabitants of the Valais, where the ideas have fueled pious, benevolent
customs, the religious poetry full of traditions, simplicity in taste, modesty in all aspirations,
and a tendency to asceticism and the contemplative beatitude, which give to the people a particular
appearance.

Wherever you are on public roads, a short distance, two objects that attract a lot attention, revealing
the nature of Vallesina: stone niche at the edge set the road, small shrines containing statues
of Christ and the Virgin or of saints, coagulated Feedback or relics and garlands of flowers
and highly revered by the villagers, and next sacred niche, or at least of a cross, a fountain or a
well-preserved spruce channel outdoors, throwing on some wood or stone trough a beautiful stream
of water crystal and delicious. The niche or the cross reveals the deep religious feeling these
people, the source indicates the forecast charity for the benefit of pedestrian and chivalry.

Until recently the people of the golf coarse feed some concerns they were very harmful. They believed,
for example, that the birth of an idiot in the family was a real joy, a sign of divine protection,
since the idiot away home of many calamities and was born condemned to purge his miserable stupidity
and inaction the sins of the whole family. Thus, far from the peasants seek removal of the
disease supported it. Today these concerns or have disappeared completely in some places,
or in others have become so weak that will soon be extinct. Traffic with foreigners and the other
inhabitants of Switzerland, the development given to primary education and roads, the efforts
made by public authority and philanthropies in order to remove the two diseases, and the moral
awakening that was produced in these populations, By virtue of democratic
institutions that govern the Canton and require the active of all
citizens, are fighting very good success with those calamities.

They are complex origin, since the causes not only exist in the exposure of sites to cold winds
from the mountains, the nature of water and atmospheric air and a vice traditional or organic
estate in the constitution, but also in the filth, life sedentary and concerns.

The history of the canton of Valais (whose last foreign ruler was Napoleon) is uninteresting, but the
struggles of their matches have been rather stormy and bloody, owing to the tenacity of previous
bishops and feudal lords to maintain their privileges, monopolies and tyranny, excluding the people
and government welfare. The fully democratic constitution Canton of data from 1839, and despite the aristocratic
reaction of 1844, passed the country still governed by liberal institutions and men friends of
democracy. Add that languages ​​spoken in the Canton are the French and German, quite altered
or converted dialects or Patu.

* * * * *

The neck down towards the plain Forclaz Martigny, which dominates the show the view is as great
as picturesque.

In front are the mountains of complicated Bernese Alps, covered with fir trees or grasslands in their
skirts, showing off some flanks or and naked peaks, and whose highest eminences diamond shine like
the snowy crowns of 'Diablerets, Arbelt, Strubel, etc. "In the background is the Rhone Valley,
violently truncated at right angles and converging valleys "Dranzer" - river that descends
from the Swiss-Italian chain and flows into the Rhône near Martigny, - and the nutrients, leaving
between the labyrinth of wild mountains to swell the same Rhône a little below the Dranzer
confluence. Finally, around and under the same step of the traveler, is developed a vast complication
of very rugged foothills that offer three superimposed orders of
vegetation and landscapes: above, on the crests of the mountains,
dense virgin forests firs and pines, whose dark ink has a severity
almost solemn, in the center down, in a hundred inclines, narrow ravines,
valleys smiling and shining plains broken forests, wild hazel, beech
and other trees of lower heights and innumerable orchards and plantations
of walnut, chestnut, cherry, pear and many others fruit trees grown
between crops of hay, flax, potatoes and mixed vegetables, trees that
shade the road now lined streets thick endless vaults, now shown scattered
into a thousand irregular groups, giving them the most picturesque
countryside range in the forms inks and vegetation .-- Down, finally,
lay the vineyards carpeting vast areas, both in the surrounding hills
and slopes to the valleys but as the same, dotted towns and villages
look more funny and original.

       

After crossing the small town (Bourg) of "Martigny", a little over 1,000 residents, located at
the foot of a mountain and the magnificent ruins of an ancient feudal castle the tour via the
plain entirely Dranzer Valley. After twenty minutes the traveler going to resting in "Martigny-city"
in the heat of the sun and the fatigues of a march ten hours done at the discretion of the
mazorral mule. This small town, the second location of Canton, it holds only about 1,100 residents.
It lies at the foot of the mountain range that separates Rhone valley and the Dranzer and almost
at the confluence of two rivers, in central a lively, fertile and well cultivated plain. Despite
the originality that is seen in the structure of neighboring houses and bridges, the city itself
does not offer any interest, but as a center of agricultural movement in Valais.

Two hours later we took a railroad train, then recently opened, which leads to the shores of
Lake Geneva. The countryside is remarkably varied. Dominated and narrowed the valley by the
spurs of two opposite hills, coming down almost to be played in St.-Mauritius by the stirrups of
the group of the South and the Morcles, wherever it offers nice contrast the immense alpine
embankments, and vegetation of severe dark side, the large landslides that cross the foot of the
hills, the course run over the Rhone, whose ashen waters overflow on the rocky plain, producing small
swamps, and plantations cheerful of all kinds in the bottom of which highlight many villages, not
dowdy in appearance, but interest naked. Pissevache the beautiful waterfall produced by the stream or
creek of Sallenche, which plunges noisily between wild gorges, called attention to their shapes.
It measures 64 meters in elevation drop, and her show is very nice
effect on the plain.

Saint-Maurice, ancient-looking town entirely feudal, with 1.250 inhabitants, is the only place that
attracts attention all the way from Martigny to port Boveret on Lake Leman.

Some hikers very fond of certain antiquities often stop there to see curiosities of little value.
At that point the train splits, with the Rhone through: the line on the left bank is going
to end up in Boveret, that of the right bank, which is very recent, runs its course in Bex,
Aigle and Villeneuve, the bank pays setentrional of Geneva, by Verey, and follow direction to
Lausanne in several cantons of central Switzerland and Western.

A steamer took us in a time when a storm threatened the brunt lake, Boveret to Vevey, interesting
and curious city or state the canton of Vaud.

If the reader has kindly accepted the plan that I intend to continue to draw features principal of
the Swiss cantons, moral and material, allow me to speak before of the three major cities of Vaud,
which I had occasion to visit briefly indicate conditions characteristic of this small but very
interesting confederated republic.

The territory of Vaud (in German Waadtländer or Waadt), which is by extension the fourth in
the Confederation, mostly belonging to the middle region or undulating alti- Central Switzerland.
Limited by the crest south side of Lake Leman, the end starts at the top of the upper Rhone valley
and the lower tap limits Geneva extending from the heights of the
Bernese Alps in the fridge Diablerets, until Jura, on the summits
of Mont-d'Or and Dole, from the French border.

That territory has the more irregular contours, starting in the upper limits Rhone and the Alps
with the cantons Valleys and Bern, and the central plateau, to the east, N. O, and N, in Neuchâtel.

Although
in the Canton exist in all three small lakes, one of them (de Joux)
second order, the most interesting are the Leman Vaud, Neuchâtel and
Morat, where has a very large part of banks.

Measures vaudense territory, mostly long 100 km NE to SW, enclosing an area of ​​3.850 square
kilometers. In its floor, very sunny and fertile and admirably grown, draws much attention downward
and small chain of mountains Jorat. This, with its graceful inflections, determines not only
the hydrographic system of Canton, but also the thousands of picturesque undulating small valleys
and hills, inclines and hilly and broken in the central plains the country. That chain, destined
by nature to maintain the balance between two water systems, was born in Vevey on the shore
near the lake, coasting along the EO to address ahead of Lausanne,
and then go to NO, away from the Leman, Sarraz towards at the foot
of the main spurs of the Jura.

Thus, the loop is Jorat transverse splice between the Bernese Alps and the mountains Jurassic.

Beautiful in their forms and vegetation - that offer the most smiling wherever landscapes - the
Jorat chain, which rarely reaches elevation to 1,000 meters, is interesting
for the demarcation to which results in agriculture, and the separation
that occurs between the water discharging on Lake Leman, to go to
the Mediterranean, which tend toward the valley of the Aar to down
the Rhine to the North Sea, in quite opposite direction.

The river Venoge that and its tributaries, rises in the Jura Mountains and flows into Lake Geneva,
between Morges and Ouchy is the only center hydrographic some consideration corresponding to the
valley of the Rhone. On the opposite side of the mountains of Jorat are: the Orb, whose waters
are the main basis Lake Neuchâtel, and Broy (Broye), which irrigates the cantons of Vaud and
Fribourg, as the small lake of Morat and then pours the Neuchâtel. The Sarina, hydrographic
center of Fribourg, also irrigates a small part of Vaud in the mountainous region of the Bernese
Alps.

If the ends of Canton, is, in the alpine mountains and Jurassic, the composition geological,
vegetation, agriculture, livestock, industry and customs have respectively the conditions common
to the upper regions of Switzerland, in the central part Double lap of Mount Jorat, everything
has a look that pleases the eye and seduce the Traveler - all follow the economic laws of
physics and high plains. There appears life everywhere, full of poetry, freshness and vigor.

The
territory is naturally divided into three regions with their appearance and vegetation individuals.
In the mountainous, mainly on the side of the Jura meadows are rich natural populated by shepherds,
cattle, cheese and villas, and large and thick pine forests, beech and fir trees harvested for
timber trade. In the foothills and rolling plains Jorat system, countless snuff plantations,
cereals, flax and hemp plants oilseeds and medicinal, brood of excellent horses, and beautiful
woods or orchards highly utilized fruit trees such as fig, almond, olive, chestnut, apple and
walnut. Finally, on the banks of Lake Geneva (and partly on the lakes Neuchâtel and Morat) there
is a wide stretch of over 50 kilometers long, which Soil is composed
of rolling hills and inclines towards the lake completely covered
belt countless vineyards and dotted with villages or small towns,
villages, hamlets capricious and graceful villas or rooms countryside.

It is on that long stretch to take almost all the major population centers, whose steeples, houses
and terraces look out over the clear and blue mirror of Lake Geneva. The exploitation of salt marshes
and salt springs and gemma of rich mines of asphalt, marble, iron, important stones, sulfur,
coal and other substances also gives the Canton, in a remarkable proportion, the nature of
mining [14].
 Laura had always admired her, thought
her the prettiest woman in London, the beauty with the finest points; and now these points
were so vivid (especially her finished slenderness and the grace, the natural elegance of every
turn--the fall of her shoulders had never looked so perfect) that the girl almost detested
them: they appeared to her a kind of advertisement of danger and even of shame.

Miss Steet at last came back for the children, and as soon as she had taken them away Selina
observed that she would go over to Plash--just as she was: she rang for her hat and jacket
and for the carriage. Laura could see that she would not give her just yet the advantage of
a retreat to her room. The hat and jacket were quickly brought, but after they were put on
Selina kept her maid in the drawing-room, talking to her a long time, telling her elaborately
what she wished done with the things she had brought from Paris. Before the maid departed the
carriage was announced, and the servant, leaving the door of the room open, hovered within
earshot. Laura then, losing patience, turned out the maid and closed the door; she stood before
her sister, who was prepared for her drive. Then she asked her abruptly, fiercely, but colouring
with her question, whether Captain Crispin had been in Paris. We have heard Mrs. Berrington's
answer, with which her strenuous sister was imperfectly satisfied; a fact the perception of
which it doubtless was that led Selina to break out, with a greater show of indignation: 'I
never heard of such extraordinary ideas for a girl to have, and such extraordinary things for
a girl to talk about! My dear, you have acquired a freedom--you have emancipated yourself from
conventionality--and I suppose I must congratulate you.' Laura only stood there, with her eyes
fixed, without answering the sally, and Selina went on, with another change of tone: 'And pray
if he was there, what is there so monstrous? Hasn't it happened that he is in London when I
am there? Why is it then so awful that he should be in Paris?'

'Awful, awful, too awful,' murmured Laura, with intense gravity, still looking at her--looking
all the more fixedly that she knew how little Selina liked it.

'My dear, you do indulge in a style of innuendo, for a respectable young woman!' Mrs. Berrington
exclaimed, with an angry laugh. 'You have ideas that when I was a girl----' She paused, and
her sister saw that she had not the assurance to finish her sentence on that particular note.

'Don't talk about my innuendoes and my ideas--you might remember those in which I have heard
you indulge! Ideas? what ideas did I ever have before I came here?' Laura Wing asked, with
a trembling voice. 'Don't pretend to be shocked, Selina; that's too cheap a defence. You have
said things to me--if you choose to talk of freedom! What is the talk of your house and what
does one hear if one lives with you? I don't care what I hear now (it's all odious and there's
little choice and my sweet sensibility has gone God knows where!) and I'm very glad if you
understand that I don't care what I say. If one talks about your affairs, my dear, one mustn't
be too particular!' the girl continued, with a flash of passion.

Mrs. Berrington buried her face in her hands. 'Merciful powers, to be insulted, to be covered
with outrage, by one's wretched little sister!' she moaned.

'I think you should be thankful there is one human being--however wretched--who cares enough
for you to care about the truth in what concerns you,' Laura said. 'Selina, Selina--are you
hideously deceiving us?'

'Us?' Selina repeated, with a singular laugh. 'Whom do you mean by us?'

Laura Wing hesitated; she had asked herself whether it would be best she should let her sister
know the dreadful scene she had had with Lionel; but she had not, in her mind, settled that
point. However, it was settled now in an instant. 'I don't mean your friends--those of them
that I have seen. I don't think they care a straw--I have never seen such people. But last
week Lionel spoke to me--he told me he knew it, as a certainty.'

'Lionel spoke to you?' said Mrs. Berrington, holding up her head with a stare. 'And what is
it that he knows?'

'That Captain Crispin was in Paris and that you were with him. He believes you went there to
meet him.'

'He said this to you?'

'Yes, and much more--I don't know why I should make a secret of it.'

'The disgusting beast!' Selina exclaimed slowly, solemnly. 'He enjoys the right--the legal
right--to pour forth his vileness upon me; but when he is so lost to every feeling as to begin
to talk to you in such a way----!' And Mrs. Berrington paused, in the extremity of her reprobation.

'Oh, it was not his talk that shocked me--it was his believing it,' the girl replied. 'That,
I confess, made an impression on me.'

'Did it indeed? I'm infinitely obliged to you! You are a tender, loving little sister.'

'Yes, I am, if it's tender to have cried about you--all these days--till I'm blind and sick!'
Laura replied. 'I hope you are prepared to meet him. His mind is quite made up to apply for
a divorce.'

Laura's voice almost failed her as she said this--it was the first time that in talking with
Selina she had uttered that horrible word. She had heard it however, often enough on the lips
of others; it had been bandied lightly enough in her presence under those somewhat austere
ceilings of Mellows, of which the admired decorations and mouldings, in the taste of the middle
of the last century, all in delicate plaster and reminding her of Wedgewood pottery, consisted
of slim festoons, urns and trophies and knotted ribbons, so many symbols of domestic affection
and irrevocable union. Selina herself had flashed it at her with light superiority, as if it
were some precious jewel kept in reserve, which she could convert at any moment into specie,
so that it would constitute a happy provision for her future. The idea--associated with her
own point of view--was apparently too familiar to Mrs. Berrington to be the cause of her changing
colour; it struck her indeed, as presented by Laura, in a ludicrous light, for her pretty eyes
expanded a moment and she smiled pityingly. 'Well, you are a poor dear innocent, after all.
Lionel would be about as able to divorce me--even if I were the most abandoned of my sex--as
he would be to write a leader in the Times.'

'I know nothing about that,' said Laura.

'So I perceive--as I also perceive that you must have shut your eyes very tight. Should you
like to know a few of the reasons--heaven forbid I should attempt to go over them all; there
are millions!--why his hands are tied?'

'Not in the least.'

'Should you like to know that his own life is too base for words and that his impudence in
talking about me would be sickening if it weren't grotesque?' Selina went on, with increasing
emotion. 'Should you like me to tell you to what he has stooped--to the very gutter--and the
charming history of his relations with----'

'No, I don't want you to tell me anything of the sort,' Laura interrupted. 'Especially as you
were just now so pained by the license of my own allusions.'

'You listen to him then--but it suits your purpose not to listen to me!'

'Oh, Selina, Selina!' the girl almost shrieked, turning away.

'Where have your eyes been, or your senses, or your powers of observation? You can be clever
enough when it suits you!' Mrs. Berrington continued, throwing off another ripple of derision.
'And now perhaps, as the carriage is waiting, you will let me go about my duties.'

Laura turned again and stopped her, holding her arm as she passed toward the door. 'Will you
swear--will you swear by everything that is most sacred?'

'Will I swear what?' And now she thought Selina visibly blanched.

'That you didn't lay eyes on Captain Crispin in Paris.'

Mrs. Berrington hesitated, but only for an instant. 'You are really too odious, but as you
are pinching me to death I will swear, to get away from you. I never laid eyes on him.'

The organs of vision which Mrs. Berrington was ready solemnly to declare that she had not misapplied
were, as her sister looked into them, an abyss of indefinite prettiness. The girl had sounded
them before without discovering a conscience at the bottom of them, and they had never helped
any one to find out anything about their possessor except that she was one of the beauties
of London. Even while Selina spoke Laura had a cold, horrible sense of not believing her, and
at the same time a desire, colder still, to extract a reiteration of the pledge. Was it the
asseveration of her innocence that she wished her to repeat, or only the attestation of her
falsity? One way or the other it seemed to her that this would settle something, and she went
on inexorably--'By our dear mother's memory--by our poor father's?'

'By my mother's, by my father's,' said Mrs. Berrington, 'and by that of any other member of
the family you like!' Laura let her go; she had not been pinching her, as Selina described
the pressure, but had clung to her with insistent hands. As she opened the door Selina said,
in a changed voice: 'I suppose it's no use to ask you if you care to drive to Plash.'

'No, thank you, I don't care--I shall take a walk.'

'I suppose, from that, that your friend Lady Davenant has gone.'

'No, I think she is still there.'

'That's a bore!' Selina exclaimed, as she went off.

VI

Laura Wing hastened to her room to prepare herself for her walk; but when she reached it she
simply fell on her knees, shuddering, beside her bed. She buried her face in the soft counterpane
of wadded silk; she remained there a long time, with a kind of aversion to lifting it again
to the day. It burned with horror and there was coolness in the smooth glaze of the silk. It
seemed to her that she had been concerned in a hideous transaction, and her uppermost feeling
was, strangely enough, that she was ashamed--not of her sister but of herself. She did not
believe her--that was at the bottom of everything, and she had made her lie, she had brought
out her perjury, she had associated it with the sacred images of the dead. She took no walk,
she remained in her room, and quite late, towards six o'clock, she heard on the gravel, outside
of her windows, the wheels of the carriage bringing back Mrs. Berrington. She had evidently
been elsewhere as well as to Plash; no doubt she had been to the vicarage--she was capable
even of that. She could pay 'duty-visits,' like that (she called at the vicarage about three
times a year), and she could go and be nice to her mother-in-law with her fresh lips still
fresher for the lie she had just told. For it was as definite as an aching nerve to Laura that
she did not believe her, and if she did not believe her the words she had spoken were a lie.
It was the lie, the lie to her and which she had dragged out of her that seemed to the girl
the ugliest thing. If she had admitted her folly, if she had explained, attenuated, sophisticated,
there would have been a difference in her favour; but now she was bad because she was hard.
She had a surface of polished metal. And she could make plans and calculate, she could act
and do things for a particular effect. She could go straight to old Mrs. Berrington and to
the parson's wife and his many daughters (just as she had kept the children after luncheon,
on purpose, so long) because that looked innocent and domestic and denoted a mind without a
feather's weight upon it.

A servant came to the young lady's door to tell her that tea was ready; and on her asking who
else was below (for she had heard the wheels of a second vehicle just after Selina's return),
she learned that Lionel had come back. At this news she requested that some tea should be brought
to her room--she determined not to go to dinner. When the dinner-hour came she sent down word
that she had a headache, that she was going to bed. She wondered whether Selina would come
to her (she could forget disagreeable scenes amazingly); but her fervent hope that she would
stay away was gratified. Indeed she would have another call upon her attention if her meeting
with her husband was half as much of a concussion as was to have been expected. Laura had found
herself listening hard, after knowing that her brother-in-law was in the house: she half expected
to hear indications of violence--loud cries or the sound of a scuffle. It was a matter of course
to her that some dreadful scene had not been slow to take place, something that discretion
should keep her out of even if she had not been too sick. She did not go to bed--partly because
she didn't know what might happen in the house. But she was restless also for herself: things
had reached a point when it seemed to her that she must make up her mind. She left her candles
unlighted--she sat up till the small hours, in the glow of the fire. What had been settled
by her scene with Selina was that worse things were to come (looking into her fire, as the
night went on, she had a rare prevision of the catastrophe that hung over the house), and she
considered, or tried to consider, what it would be best for her, in anticipation, to do. The
first thing was to take flight.

It may be related without delay that Laura Wing did not take flight and that though the circumstance
detracts from the interest that should be felt in her character she did not even make up her
mind. That was not so easy when action had to ensue. At the same time she had not the excuse
of a conviction that by not acting--that is by not withdrawing from her brother-in-law's roof--she
should be able to hold Selina up to her duty, to drag her back into the straight path. The
hopes connected with that project were now a phase that she had left behind her; she had not
to-day an illusion about her sister large enough to cover a sixpence. She had passed through
the period of superstition, which had lasted the longest--the time when it seemed to her, as
at first, a kind of profanity to doubt of Selina and judge her, the elder sister whose beauty
and success she had ever been proud of and who carried herself, though with the most good-natured
fraternisings, as one native to an upper air. She had called herself in moments of early penitence
for irrepressible suspicion a little presumptuous prig: so strange did it seem to her at first,
the impulse of criticism in regard to her bright protectress. But the revolution was over and
she had a desolate, lonely freedom which struck her as not the most cynical thing in the world
only because Selina's behaviour was more so. She supposed she should learn, though she was
afraid of the knowledge, what had passed between that lady and her husband while her vigil
ached itself away. But it appeared to her the next day, to her surprise, that nothing was changed
in the situation save that Selina knew at present how much more she was suspected. Without feeling "tired" of living as he lived, because there was no drop at ride so calm
and relatively orderly as he had used me to get where he come by so many dangerous roads, began
to notice at the time certain languor spirit, inappetence certain moral certainly were not
at odds with a break homes, and much less an exchange of views and "food". On this side, the
letter My uncle could not be more timely than it was in my hands. The serious, unexpected terrible
thing for me was on the other hand, the quality of what I called it. Resolved to change their
lives for some time, God knows what paths I had taken, but certainly to me that never would
have chosen that my uncle wanted and I intended. Get there to make a visit, stop by long, even to know
view the site of my grandparents, thank goodness, but to settle it; make the lives of the beasts
among crags and brambles; acclimated she suddenly ran into the station (rather than mid autumn),
the threshold of winter Why should he see Tablanca! Water newcomer I-Hi Paris and halfway around the
world "Distinguished", with suitcases packed with 'new', both in carrying clothes; reinstated in
my "comfortable" single house ... Come on, was the height of the impossible dream even trocar in
all that and so suddenly I was offered from Tablanca.
 This admission will doubtless suggest to the reader that she was a weak,
inconsequent, spasmodic young person, with a standard not really, or at any rate not continuously,
high; and I have no desire that she shall appear anything but what she was. It must even be
related of her that since she could not escape and live in lodgings and paint fans (there were
reasons why this combination was impossible) she determined to try and be happy in the given
circumstances--to float in shallow, turbid water. She gave up the attempt to understand the
cynical modus vivendi at which her companions seemed to have arrived; she knew it was not final
but it served them sufficiently for the time; and if it served them why should it not serve
her, the dependent, impecunious, tolerated little sister, representative of the class whom
it behoved above all to mind their own business? The time was coming round when they would
all move up to town, and there, in the crowd, with the added movement, the strain would be
less and indifference easier.

Whatever Lionel had said to his wife that evening she had found something to say to him: that
Laura could see, though not so much from any change in the simple expression of his little
red face and in the vain bustle of his existence as from the grand manner in which Selina now
carried herself. She was 'smarter' than ever and her waist was smaller and her back straighter
and the fall of her shoulders finer; her long eyes were more oddly charming and the extreme
detachment of her elbows from her sides conduced still more to the exhibition of her beautiful
arms. So she floated, with a serenity not disturbed by a general tardiness, through the interminable
succession of her engagements. Her photographs were not to be purchased in the Burlington Arcade--she
had kept out of that; but she looked more than ever as they would have represented her if they
had been obtainable there. There were times when Laura thought her brother-in-law's formless
desistence too frivolous for nature: it even gave her a sense of deeper dangers. It was as
if he had been digging away in the dark and they would all tumble into the hole. It happened
to her to ask herself whether the things he had said to her the afternoon he fell upon her
in the schoolroom had not all been a clumsy practical joke, a crude desire to scare, that of
a schoolboy playing with a sheet in the dark; or else brandy and soda, which came to the same
thing. However this might be she was obliged to recognise that the impression of brandy and
soda had not again been given her. More striking still however was Selina's capacity to recover
from shocks and condone imputations; she kissed again--kissed Laura--without tears, and proposed
problems connected with the rearrangement of trimmings and of the flowers at dinner, as candidly--as
earnestly--as if there had never been an intenser question between them. Captain Crispin was
not mentioned; much less of course, so far as Laura was concerned, was he seen. But Lady Ringrose
appeared; she came down for two days, during an absence of Lionel's. Laura, to her surprise,
found her no such Jezebel but a clever little woman with a single eye-glass and short hair
who had read Lecky and could give her useful hints about water-colours: a reconciliation that
encouraged the girl, for this was the direction in which it now seemed to her best that she
herself should grow.

VII

In Grosvenor Place, on Sunday afternoon, during the first weeks of the season, Mrs. Berrington
was usually at home: this indeed was the only time when a visitor who had not made an appointment
could hope to be admitted to her presence. Very few hours in the twenty-four did she spend
in her own house. Gentlemen calling on these occasions rarely found her sister: Mrs. Berrington
had the field to herself. It was understood between the pair that Laura should take this time
for going to see her old women: it was in that manner that Selina qualified the girl's independent
social resources. The old women however were not a dozen in number; they consisted mainly of
Lady Davenant and the elder Mrs. Berrington, who had a house in Portman Street. Lady Davenant
lived at Queen's Gate and also was usually at home of a Sunday afternoon: her visitors were
not all men, like Selina Berrington's, and Laura's maidenly bonnet was not a false note in
her drawing-room. Selina liked her sister, naturally enough, to make herself useful, but of
late, somehow, they had grown rarer, the occasions that depended in any degree upon her aid,
and she had never been much appealed to--though it would have seemed natural she should be--on
behalf of the weekly chorus of gentlemen. It came to be recognised on Selina's part that nature
had dedicated her more to the relief of old women than to that of young men. Laura had a distinct
sense of interfering with the free interchange of anecdote and pleasantry that went on at her
sister's fireside: the anecdotes were mostly such an immense secret that they could not be
told fairly if she were there, and she had their privacy on her conscience. There was an exception
however; when Selina expected Americans she naturally asked her to stay at home: not apparently
so much because their conversation would be good for her as because hers would be good for them.

One Sunday, about the middle of May, Laura Wing prepared herself to go and see Lady Davenant,
who had made a long absence from town at Easter but would now have returned. The weather was
charming, she had from the first established her right to tread the London streets alone (if
she was a poor girl she could have the detachment as well as the helplessness of it) and she
promised herself the pleasure of a walk along the park, where the new grass was bright. A moment
before she quitted the house her sister sent for her to the drawing-room; the servant gave
her a note scrawled in pencil: 'That man from New York is here--Mr. Wendover, who brought me
the introduction the other day from the Schoolings. He's rather a dose--you must positively
come down and talk to him. Take him out with you if you can.' The description was not alluring,
but Selina had never made a request of her to which the girl had not instantly responded: it
seemed to her she was there for that. She joined the circle in the drawing-room and found that
it consisted of five persons, one of whom was Lady Ringrose. Lady Ringrose was at all times
and in all places a fitful apparition; she had described herself to Laura during her visit
at Mellows as 'a bird on the branch.' She had no fixed habit of receiving on Sunday, she was
in and out as she liked, and she was one of the few specimens of her sex who, in Grosvenor
Place, ever turned up, as she said, on the occasions to which I allude. Of the three gentlemen
two were known to Laura; she could have told you at least that the big one with the red hair
was in the Guards and the other in the Rifles; the latter looked like a rosy child and as if
he ought to be sent up to play with Geordie and Ferdy: his social nickname indeed was the Baby.
Selina's admirers were of all ages--they ranged from infants to octogenarians.

She introduced the third gentleman to her sister; a tall, fair, slender young man who suggested
that he had made a mistake in the shade of his tight, perpendicular coat, ordering it of too
heavenly a blue. This added however to the candour of his appearance, and if he was a dose,
as Selina had described him, he could only operate beneficently. There were moments when Laura's
heart rather yearned towards her countrymen, and now, though she was preoccupied and a little
disappointed at having been detained, she tried to like Mr. Wendover, whom her sister had compared
invidiously, as it seemed to her, with her other companions. It struck her that his surface
at least was as glossy as theirs. The Baby, whom she remembered to have heard spoken of as
a dangerous flirt, was in conversation with Lady Ringrose and the guardsman with Mrs. Berrington;
so she did her best to entertain the American visitor, as to whom any one could easily see
(she thought) that he had brought a letter of introduction--he wished so to maintain the credit
of those who had given it to him. Laura scarcely knew these people, American friends of her
sister who had spent a period of festivity in London and gone back across the sea before her
own advent; but Mr. Wendover gave her all possible information about them. He lingered upon
them, returned to them, corrected statements he had made at first, discoursed upon them earnestly
and exhaustively. He seemed to fear to leave them, lest he should find nothing again so good,
and he indulged in a parallel that was almost elaborate between Miss Fanny and Miss Katie.
Selina told her sister afterwards that she had overheard him--that he talked of them as if
he had been a nursemaid; upon which Laura defended the young man even to extravagance. She
reminded her sister that people in London were always saying Lady Mary and Lady Susan: why
then shouldn't Americans use the Christian name, with the humbler prefix with which they had
to content themselves? There had been a time when Mrs. Berrington had been happy enough to
be Miss Lina, even though she was the elder sister; and the girl liked to think there were
still old friends--friends of the family, at home, for whom, even should she live to sixty
years of spinsterhood, she would never be anything but Miss Laura. This was as good as Donna
Anna or Donna Elvira: English people could never call people as other people did, for fear
of resembling the servants.

Mr. Wendover was very attentive, as well as communicative; however his letter might be regarded
in Grosvenor Place he evidently took it very seriously himself; but his eyes wandered considerably,
none the less, to the other side of the room, and Laura felt that though he had often seen
persons like her before (not that he betrayed this too crudely) he had never seen any one like
Lady Ringrose. His glance rested also on Mrs. Berrington, who, to do her justice, abstained
from showing, by the way she returned it, that she wished her sister to get him out of the
room. Her smile was particularly pretty on Sunday afternoons and he was welcome to enjoy it
as a part of the decoration of the place. Whether or no the young man should prove interesting
he was at any rate interested; indeed she afterwards learned that what Selina deprecated in
him was the fact that he would eventually display a fatiguing intensity of observation. He
would be one of the sort who noticed all kinds of little things--things she never saw or heard
of--in the newspapers or in society, and would call upon her (a dreadful prospect) to explain
or even to defend them. She had not come there to explain England to the Americans; the more
particularly as her life had been a burden to her during the first years of her marriage through
her having to explain America to the English. As for defending England to her countrymen she
had much rather defend it from them: there were too many--too many for those who were already
there. This was the class she wished to spare--she didn't care about the English. They could
obtain an eye for an eye and a cutlet for a cutlet by going over there; which she had no desire
to do--not for all the cutlets in Christendom!

When Mr. Wendover and Laura had at last cut loose from the Schoolings he let her know confidentially
that he had come over really to see London; he had time, that year; he didn't know when he
should have it again (if ever, as he said) and he had made up his mind that this was about
the best use he could make of four months and a half. He had heard so much of it; it was talked
of so much to-day; a man felt as if he ought to know something about it. Laura wished the others
could hear this--that England was coming up, was making her way at last to a place among the
topics of societies more universal. She thought Mr. Wendover after all remarkably like an Englishman,
in spite of his saying that he believed she had resided in London quite a time. He talked a
great deal about things being characteristic, and wanted to know, lowering his voice to make
the inquiry, whether Lady Ringrose were not particularly so. He had heard of her very often,
he said; and he observed that it was very interesting to see her: he could not have used a
different tone if he had been speaking of the prime minister or the laureate. Laura was ignorant
of what he had heard of Lady Ringrose; she doubted whether it could be the same as what she
had heard from her brother-in-law: if this had been the case he never would have mentioned
it. She foresaw that his friends in London would have a good deal to do in the way of telling
him whether this or that were characteristic or not; he would go about in much the same way
that English travellers did in America, fixing his attention mainly on society (he let Laura
know that this was especially what he wished to go into) and neglecting the antiquities and
sights, quite as if he failed to believe in their importance. He would ask questions it was
impossible to answer; as to whether for instance society were very different in the two countries.
If you said yes you gave a wrong impression and if you said no you didn't give a right one:
that was the kind of thing that Selina had suffered from. Laura found her new acquaintance,
on the present occasion and later, more philosophically analytic of his impressions than those
of her countrymen she had hitherto encountered in her new home: the latter, in regard to such
impressions, usually exhibited either a profane levity or a tendency to mawkish idealism.

Mrs. Berrington called out at last to Laura that she must not stay if she had prepared herself
to go out: whereupon the girl, having nodded and smiled good-bye at the other members of the
circle, took a more formal leave of Mr. Wendover--expressed the hope, as an American girl does
in such a case, that they should see him again. Selina asked him to come and dine three days
later; which was as much as to say that relations might be suspended till then. Mr. Wendover
took it so, and having accepted the invitation he departed at the same time as Laura. He passed
out of the house with her and in the street she asked him which way he was going. 

As to women, their faces were more sweet and really cute clothes. All had abundant blond hair color
of gold, tied outside the caps forming huge threads, or pending on the shoulders in thick braids
with big bows black tape. If the largest number of countrywomen were not wearing on his head
but his great black hood with wide lace point, many had crowns of huge artificial roses. Bra and
wore all black cloth skirts or chestnut color, with sleeves, bib and apron Indian or white muslin.
Furthermore, all revealed their benign nature and its modest Wellness in their round meat, her
rosy cheeks, her candid and affable smile and his eyes blue filled with sweetness.

All this population of Grindelwald has its rooms still in the valley,
because in spite of its height and proximity of the Nevedas is protected
against many storms.

In the summer cultivate some fields, and others go up into the mountains to cut wood or tend
their herds and make cheese. In the winter go down to your district and villages of the valley,
and while the deal stronger in the mountains down timber cut, others are enclosed in their homes
to work embroidery and lace, wooden curio making, cutting and polishing glass, etc.

The day was declining and needed to return to Interlaken: assemble again on our stroller and
started the descent, giving a greeting of admiration to the show
wonderfully beautiful and varied than we had seen so delicious.

The sky was full of light and splendor and the morning breeze curled
the waves and we came from the mountains laden with the rich aromas
that emanate from the pine forests, when they boarded a steamer funny,
which soon began to cut like a swan fine brown waters of Lake Brienz.

More than forty passengers we were on cockpit, and not a few were clustered toward the bow.
Some went directly to disembark in Brienz, at the upper end of the lake, others were to stop
at the little port buffer of Boenigen, the higher the number we pass to visit for a few hours,
the beautiful Giessbach cascade. On the right we could see distinctly the broad belt of water
Cinderella the Lütschina, flowing on the left bank of the lake and a trail of ash thrown on the
green carpet in a pasture. Later, the same side, we almost touching the gorgeous little island of
Boenigen or Schnecke-Insel (island-of-the-snails), which resembles a miniature produced by sprites.

Lake
Brienz, perfectly similar in color to that of Thun and produced by the same river Aar, is less
significant between the first order, but the deepest of all those of Switzerland. Measures just
about 15 kilometers long, N.-O. to S.-E., by 6 wide, and its depth reaches the prodigious extent
of 600 meters at some points. Lake receives some streams, of which the most curious is that outputs
to the waters of Fouls-see (or Lake-rotted), located above the mountains,
disappearing into cavities torrent groundwater does not come back
until they are ready to throw into the lake of Brienz.

The mountains determine the basin of this are much more rough, wild and higher than the lake
Thun, and rise suddenly in great sliced ​​thick walls seem to threaten to peak collapse on
the airwaves. HOWEVER, in the long circumference of the basin are about ten or twelve villages,
of which the most notable are those of Brienz and Boenigen, with a total population of about
7,000 inhabitants, picturesquely perched on a steep hills and at the foot of dense pine forests,
and other resting softly on lakeshore.

As we approached the waterfall Giessbach the show surprised us by his grace imponderable. There's
nothing that impressive and sublime majesty of the cataract of Tequendama, capable, and others
in Colombia, to deeply religious poet and an atheist (if that can be any) to only show the colossal
wonder of Creation. No: the interest of the Giessbach, as the best waterfalls in Switzerland,
is in grace, caprice, the variety delightful. In his presence you can love, talk, laugh and flirt,
while in front of Tequendama not allowed but watch in awe, admire and ponder the infinite.

When jumping into the little port of Giessbach, almost at the foot of the waterfall, all passengers
we dispersed by the various intersections of the hill, thrill-seekers to content our curiosity.
The mountain, covered with thick forests, open resulting in a lean sort of a valley, about 60
or more feet above the lake, taking the limit lower in the huge rock overlooking the river, and rising
from inside the thick mountain to a considerable height well. At the end of the lean is an elegant
preceded by beautiful hotel terraces, and in front of him rushing waterfall, jumping loud and vegetables
across vast shadowy alcoves hung with lichens and mosses.

There Each traveler is standing on the balconies or stone balconies allow at intervals closely
watch the waterfall.

The torrent was precipitated from the top of the mountain by a narrow opening, resembling a huge
jet is launched from a roof by between stone balconies and covered with garlands studded with severe
curtains floating vegetable. It is composed of a succession of cascading fourteen falls or cascades,
of proportions and different aspects, forming a huge step of eddies and rocks, which are launched
on the waters in bright plumage, in huge jets and spiral crystal iridescent clouds of fine rain
If the whole seen from the front, charming, very delightful experience to be placed under one
of the over huge boulders where it turns a passage played in the
hollow of the rock, feeling wrapped by a whirlwind that jumps over,
forming a superb vault and foaming liquid which fits nicely in the
dual context of forests.

The contrast is very sensitive if you get from the waterfall to climb to the viewpoint is on
the edge of the mighty rock that stands on the banks of the lake. From there with his eyes covered
by a supremely beautiful landscape. On the right, at N.-O., is the upper valley of the Aar
Hasli or of the entry of the murky river to the lake and Brienz and some other peoples, to the left,
the beautiful valley of Interlaken, and beyond the lake of Thun, the front, a huge fortress
of rustic mountain majesty in the background, the total extension the lake, quiet, asleep and alone,
it seems as indifferent to the anger of the stream of Giessbach it launches its sparkling streams,
and whose quiet love misleading travelers amazed that the shade of
the pines provides the abyss of liquid emerald has at his feet.

Add to that the whistle of the locomotive of some vapor that passes through the lake, waking
the echoes of those breasts of granite and projecting between heaven and waves his snowy white
plume of smoke, and you will have the full picture that stimulated our admiration.

* * * * *

Brienz is a small village of about 1,800 inhabitants, lively and curious, thanks to considerable
trade with excellent cheese, its manufacture of sculptures and curiosities Wood, his old ruined castle,
its renowned cantatrice of national songs, and the neighboring cascade Muhlbach measuring 360
meters high. We stopped in Brienz scarcely time for refreshments and to pull a wagon which
was to take the valley of the Aar in the direction of the canton of Nidwalden, through Brünig
neck. Arriving at the foot of the mountain, the end of a bridge across the Aar, we got out
of the small trap: the driver became Muleteer and guide, left the
carriage to the side the wagon road, two robust and saddled horses
shot dull, assemble and start to climb the hill, enclosed in modest
cottages and rows of stout walnut.

       

After an hour of idle and lazy for a rough stony path, we boarded a flying close to the side
of the hill encircled. All artificial vegetation had disappeared, and walked to the huge landslides
through the snows and rains occur, the foot patches of spruce damaged by hurricanes. Looking
back we watched the romantic view of Lake Brienz, had the joker down Hasli valley (in the center
Meyring delay) crossed by the Aare and dominated by towering mountain walls perpendicular to
one side.

It was interesting the contrast of objects composing the picture. The Aar was overgrown and out of
the womb, had gray waves inundated with many portions of the valley,
dragging huts and fences destroyed, lots of pieces of wood, whole
trees and some animals.

In the rest of the valley was all happy and smiling, thanks to the various fields and villages,
farmhouses and cottages scattered in every way. Above, the S.-E., highlighted in the distance the
magnificent glaciers from which emerges the Aar, but close in the second term of perspective
swarms of spruce-covered mountains and in the first place, overlooking the valley, rose as
an artificial wall, huge, bare rock and melancholy through which ink parallel plunge from great
heights, like ribbons of polished steel, the beautiful waterfalls of Oltschibach, Falchernbach Wandelbach
and [20].

Thus, the picture was a set of desolation sad, majesty and picturesque landscapes, summarizing
various kinds of poetry.

[20] The termination means in German bach waterfall or stream.

For the rest, Hasli valley, in whose region above the Aar born and ends the territory the canton
of Bern is one of the most famous of Switzerland. Has the peculiarity, as chronicles and comments
made, that all its population is composed of the remains of two pure breeds, originating in
the north, under a Swedish immigration of 6.000 and 1.200 Ostfrisones that came to settle in the
valley in the fifth century All that population, beautiful type vigorously, professing the reformed
religion, while at the opposite side of the mountain we were Trasmonte
the Catholic religion dominates with the same exclusion.

Perhaps among social phenomena there is none more curious and worthy of attention than geography
of religions, so mysterious in appearance. In Switzerland, more than any other European country,
far from artifice current conventional religions, we can see this phenomenon within populations
rustic and simple. Indeed, we see that between two some mountain valleys separated by high
school, or on a plain crossed by a stream, a queen without a competitive side and the other
Catholicism Calvinism.

And HOWEVER topography production and weather are exactly the same or similar race and a language
same, and differences in institutions and customs insensitive. How has able to determine the absolute
religious discord? Evidently the action or historical pressure governments. However much we may
say otherwise, it is governments that make people, and that is why the responsibility of the
former is infinitely greater than the of the latter.

That the reader will disguise this moral digression (perhaps inappropriate from the heart of
a mountain) and deign to join Brünig Trasmonte neck, leaving the beautiful valley of Four-cantons,
as through a forest full of rumors, rich and wild beauty of majesty and mystery.

The forest was huge and her beauty only comparable to the poetry of his loneliness. We walked
without seeing a ray of sun, low arches and pavilions endless dark
greens colossal colonnade resting on fir, covered with lichens and
mosses.

No noise mingled with the strange echo of the footsteps of our horses and to the vague rumor, without
cause visible but eternal, which is the mysterious voice of the forests. But from time to time
felt explosions caused by mines in the rocks that drilled deep in the jungle some laborers,
opening a highway through the middle of the abyss.

After returning to reign silence, when not interrupted at times melancholy, guttural singing
of our guide, and walking meditation, we thought we were wandering in an entirely wild .... Error!
to us, over our heads, was also from tree to tree, hiding under the branches, a partner, an invisible
spirit, which perhaps we would say something to him without which we could perceive its wonderful
language or read his mind. Who was that mysterious companion? It was just electric telegraph wire,
wire, animated as we are a fluid and a thought, natural and social soul, attesting to the
presence of civilization in the bottom of the lonely forest ....

Each village, as I said not long ago, is revealed in his way of taking the great progress of civilization.
The refined France and England the positive spin their electric wires for very long series of artificial
poles, painted and filled with pieces of porcelain or glass that insulate the wires separated
fluid. Swiss do not take the punishment to execute those work, the telegraph to accommodate
every whim of the topography, and the series its poles are the natural colonnades of pine forests,
the most luxurious rooms Switzerland poetics.

* * * * *

We had entered the territory of the canton of Nidwalden as we descended the mountain of Brünig,
toward the beautiful valley of Lungern. The sun had hidden behind the gigantic mass of rugged
mountains that stretch from the group Giswylerstock up Mount Pilate. In some points of the route,
where the forest is cleared a little, peeped a piece of the lower horizon and we could perfectly
distinguished as the configuration of valleys and lakes from the
foot of Brünig basin are directed towards the capricious, irregular
and Gorgeous Lake Lucerne or the Four-cantons.

       

The canton of Nidwalden is composed of two half-cantons cantons or twins, which rotate parallel
in the direction of S.-E. the N.-O., taking his whole a severe simultaneously and funny, the
juxtaposition of mountains and buttresses that sail in all directions and its numerous and smiling
valleys, some of which are small lakes fall the most poetic aspect. The twins in that country
are very unequal proportions: well, the bottom half canton of Nidwalden (Valles-de-Down) scarcely
covers a quarter total territory, and no exclusive lakes, although
it has banks in the Four-cantons and Alpnach.

The chain of mountains divides Kernwald, but the brotherhood is maintained until in the names of its
major rivers, called both Aa [21]. The territory of the two half-cantons stretching from the
magnificent snow-capped Titlis, the E. to Mount Pilatus, to the west, and from the heights of Bothorn,
to the south, to the left bank of the lake of Four Cantons to the north, near the famous site
Grütli; based thresholds and the cantons of Uri, Bern Lucerne and Schwyz, and measuring 48
kilometers at its greatest length, 36 in its widest and 687 square kilometers of total area.

[21]
Celtic word meaning water, and with the addition of r (aar) means current water or river.

The half-canton we had more in sight and we were going to go in the most notable was the Obwalden (Valles-de-Up),
which has its own capital. From the top of the mountain we watch the narrow valley of the Aa
and very cheerful than at the bottom of which appeared, with the serenity melancholic waters reflect
no light beam, Lungern lakes, Sarnen and Alpnach [22], linked together by tape Aa funny, as three
unequal plates of aluminum in a magnificent imitation enamel bracelet emerald. Nothing is more
peaceful and graceful its kind in the valley of Lungern, surrounded
by very high mountains on three sides, as a dead end, and whose glossy
green patch of grass and fall beautifully in under dark fir forest
crossed by some landslides.

 She knew she was tiresomely ill, in exile, condemned
to forego the diversions of the season and calling out to her friends, in a house she had taken
for three months at Weybridge (for a certain particular air) where Selina had already been
to see her. Selina's devotion to her appeared commendable--she had her so much on her mind.
Laura had observed in her sister in relation to other persons and objects these sudden intensities
of charity, and she had said to herself, watching them--'Is it because she is bad?--does she
want to make up for it somehow and to buy herself off from the penalties?'

Mr. Wendover called for his cicerone and they agreed to go in a romantic, Bohemian manner (the
young man was very docile and appreciative about this), walking the short distance to the Victoria
station and taking the mysterious underground railway. In the carriage she anticipated the
inquiry that she figured to herself he presently would make and said, laughing: 'No, no, this
is very exceptional; if we were both English--and both what we are, otherwise--we wouldn't
do this.'

'And if only one of us were English?'

'It would depend upon which one.'

'Well, say me.'

'Oh, in that case I certainly--on so short an acquaintance--would not go sight-seeing with you.'

'Well, I am glad I'm American,' said Mr. Wendover, sitting opposite to her.

'Yes, you may thank your fate. It's much simpler,' Laura added.

'Oh, you spoil it!' the young man exclaimed--a speech of which she took no notice but which
made her think him brighter, as they used to say at home. He was brighter still after they
had descended from the train at the Temple station (they had meant to go on to Blackfriars,
but they jumped out on seeing the sign of the Temple, fired with the thought of visiting that
institution too) and got admission to the old garden of the Benchers, which lies beside the
foggy, crowded river, and looked at the tombs of the crusaders in the low Romanesque church,
with the cross-legged figures sleeping so close to the eternal uproar, and lingered in the
flagged, homely courts of brick, with their much-lettered door-posts, their dull old windows
and atmosphere of consultation--lingered to talk of Johnson and Goldsmith and to remark how
London opened one's eyes to Dickens; and he was brightest of all when they stood in the high,
bare cathedral, which suggested a dirty whiteness, saying it was fine but wondering why it
was not finer and letting a glance as cold as the dusty, colourless glass fall upon epitaphs
that seemed to make most of the defunct bores even in death. Mr. Wendover was decorous but
he was increasingly gay, and these qualities appeared in him in spite of the fact that St.
Paul's was rather a disappointment. Then they felt the advantage of having the other place--the
one Laura had had in mind at dinner--to fall back upon: that perhaps would prove a compensation.
They entered a hansom now (they had to come to that, though they had walked also from the Temple
to St. Paul's) and drove to Lincoln's Inn Fields, Laura making the reflection as they went
that it was really a charm to roam about London under valid protection--such a mixture of freedom
and safety--and that perhaps she had been unjust, ungenerous to her sister. A good-natured,
positively charitable doubt came into her mind--a doubt that Selina might have the benefit
of. What she liked in her present undertaking was the element of the imprévu that it contained,
and perhaps it was simply the same happy sense of getting the laws of London--once in a way--off
her back that had led Selina to go over to Paris to ramble about with Captain Crispin. Possibly
they had done nothing worse than go together to the Invalides and Notre Dame; and if any one
were to meet her driving that way, so far from home, with Mr. Wendover--Laura, mentally, did
not finish her sentence, overtaken as she was by the reflection that she had fallen again into
her old assumption (she had been in and out of it a hundred times), that Mrs. Berrington had
met Captain Crispin--the idea she so passionately repudiated. She at least would never deny
that she had spent the afternoon with Mr. Wendover: she would simply say that he was an American
and had brought a letter of introduction.

The cab stopped at the Soane Museum, which Laura Wing had always wanted to see, a compatriot
having once told her that it was one of the most curious things in London and one of the least
known. While Mr. Wendover was discharging the vehicle she looked over the important old-fashioned
square (which led her to say to herself that London was endlessly big and one would never know
all the places that made it up) and saw a great bank of cloud hanging above it--a definite
portent of a summer storm. Everything about her, rather
than fiction, has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not for nothing
that invented, but on events and people who are remembered. And yet, of such events and persons
that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy,
spoiled with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions,
but by weakness of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is not the transformation or change,
because nothing changed or transformed, but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny
goodness, nobility and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little miseries
and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually that, in our opinion,
is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice glow.

Your generosity, misused first, and in light women, and to sustain in leisure and debauchery
to the shameless parasite Pepe Carranza, wise leadership is beginning to take grace to love,
without any semblance or shadow of lust that inspires Soledad, faithful
and honest housekeeper.

Extreme goodness is after the heart of D. Antonio when collect child Angelito, providentially
come to place themselves under his protection, and is the son of Soledad and Anarchist Isaiah, who
had to flee and emigrate to Buenos Aires.

Parental love feels D. Antonio for the child that has been collected, but is Soledad worth of
skill or cunning to pick you up and love him, Mr ago Antonio worthy of veneration and sympathy.

And
well reasoned further examination of conscience that makes D. Antonio crossing point about
his past life and recognizing how sorrow and regret is useless and
sterile, will enhance and purify it in our eyes, puts far top of the
four pennies, that before candidly boasted, and he also raised about
the miserable and interested persons around him: on the parasite Pepe
Carranza and their relatives loathe Teodora and Ricardo, who longed
to inherit and finally he inherited.

Again, this novel of the four pennies virtue triumphs in the world. Teodora and Ricardo are
those who succeed. It can be said that they who trouble to kill D. Antonio.

The end of the novel can not be more tragic. If only considering the material and external
Life can not be more pessimistic. Soledad is helpless, and almost accused of thievery dishonored.
Her husband, who has returned from Buenos Aires and has taken part
in a huge riot popular, died of a gunshot captaining the mob.

And the good D. Antonio, no person friend to care for him, and among the rapacious clutches
of their infamous cousins, unfortunately just his life.

But the singularity of this, which proves that style, beliefs and feelings the narrator and the
skylight that illuminates perhaps the most cruel and higher Disasters can exchange the evil
into good and make the poison antidote is that Angelito and Soledad,
as hapless materially, are worthy of envy and glory, and poor D. Antonio,
who at the beginning of the novel almost gives us is the object of
scorn and laughter and fun, just to be loved and revered by readers.

He let in the minds of them must be read after the novel is heartbreaking nor depressive, but full
of soft and religious consolation and truer morality and higher. And when this does not preclude,
but agrees and arranges to entertainment pleasant to work in this class have to bring with
you (because if you were bored moral, morals become immoral, as it would morally odious),
these works deserve applause and meet business and discreetly in order to be proposed novelist, delighting
and teaching time, not annoy the spirit, without giving us a hard
time, not sad or oppress hearts. If she was not
Selina why had she shrieked? and if she was Selina what would Mr. Wendover think of her behaviour,
and of her own, and of the strange accident of their meeting? What must she herself think of
that? so astonishing it was that in the immensity of London so infinitesimally small a chance
should have got itself enacted. What a queer place to come to--for people like them! They would
get away as soon as possible, of that she could be sure; and she would wait a little to give
them time.

Mr. Wendover made no further remark--that was a relief; though his silence itself seemed to
show that he was mystified. They went upstairs again and on reaching the door found to their
surprise that their cab had disappeared--a circumstance the more singular as the man had not
been paid. The rain was still coming down, though with less violence, and the square had been
cleared of vehicles by the sudden storm. The doorkeeper, perceiving the dismay of our friends,
explained that the cab had been taken up by another lady and another gentleman who had gone
out a few minutes before; and when they inquired how he had been induced to depart without
the money they owed him the reply was that there evidently had been a discussion (he hadn't
heard it, but the lady seemed in a fearful hurry) and the gentleman had told him that they
would make it all up to him and give him a lot more into the bargain. The doorkeeper hazarded
the candid surmise that the cabby would make ten shillings by the job. But there were plenty
more cabs; there would be one up in a minute and the rain moreover was going to stop. 'Well,
that is sharp practice!' said Mr. Wendover. He made no further allusion to the identity of
the lady.

IX

The rain did stop while they stood there, and a brace of hansoms was not slow to appear. Laura
told her companion that he must put her into one--she could go home alone: she had taken up
enough of his time. He deprecated this course very respectfully; urged that he had it on his
conscience to deliver her at her own door; but she sprang into the cab and closed the apron
with a movement that was a sharp prohibition. She wanted to get away from him--it would be
too awkward, the long, pottering drive back. Her hansom started off while Mr. Wendover, smiling
sadly, lifted his hat. It was not very comfortable, even without him; especially as before
she had gone a quarter of a mile she felt that her action had been too marked--she wished she
had let him come. His puzzled, innocent air of wondering what was the matter annoyed her; and
she was in the absurd situation of being angry at a desistence which she would have been still
angrier if he had been guiltless of. It would have comforted her (because it would seem to
share her burden) and yet it would have covered her with shame if he had guessed that what
she saw was wrong. It would not occur to him that there was a scandal so near her, because
he thought with no great promptitude of such things; and yet, since there was--but since there
was after all Laura scarcely knew what attitude would sit upon him most gracefully. As to what
he might be prepared to suspect by having heard what Selina's reputation was in London, of
that Laura was unable to judge, not knowing what was said, because of course it was not said
to her. Lionel would undertake to give her the benefit of this any moment she would allow him,
but how in the world could he know either, for how could things be said to him? Then, in the
rattle of the hansom, passing through streets for which the girl had no eyes, 'She has lied,
she has lied, she has lied!' kept repeating itself. Why had she written and signed that wanton
falsehood about her going down to Lady Watermouth? How could she have gone to Lady Watermouth's
when she was making so very different and so extraordinary a use of the hours she had announced
her intention of spending there? What had been the need of that misrepresentation and why did
she lie before she was driven to it?

It was because she was false altogether and deception came out of her with her breath; she
was so depraved that it was easier to her to fabricate than to let it alone. Laura would not
have asked her to give an account of her day, but she would ask her now. She shuddered at one
moment, as she found herself saying--even in silence--such things of her sister, and the next
she sat staring out of the front of the cab at the stiff problem presented by Selina's turning
up with the partner of her guilt at the Soane Museum, of all places in the world. The girl
shifted this fact about in various ways, to account for it--not unconscious as she did so that
it was a pretty exercise of ingenuity for a nice girl. Plainly, it was a rare accident: if
it had been their plan to spend the day together the Soane Museum had not been in the original
programme. They had been near it, they had been on foot and they had rushed in to take refuge
from the rain. But how did they come to be near it and above all to be on foot? How could Selina
do anything so reckless from her own point of view as to walk about the town--even an out-of-the-way
part of it--with her suspected lover? Laura Wing felt the want of proper knowledge to explain
such anomalies. It was too little clear to her where ladies went and how they proceeded when
they consorted with gentlemen in regard to their meetings with whom they had to lie. She knew
nothing of where Captain Crispin lived; very possibly--for she vaguely remembered having heard
Selina say of him that he was very poor--he had chambers in that part of the town, and they
were either going to them or coming from them. If Selina had neglected to take her way in a
four-wheeler with the glasses up it was through some chance that would not seem natural till
it was explained, like that of their having darted into a public institution. Then no doubt
it would hang together with the rest only too well. The explanation most exact would probably
be that the pair had snatched a walk together (in the course of a day of many edifying episodes)
for the 'lark' of it, and for the sake of the walk had taken the risk, which in that part of
London, so detached from all gentility, had appeared to them small. The last thing Selina could
have expected was to meet her sister in such a strange corner--her sister with a young man
of her own!

She was dining out that night with both Selina and Lionel--a conjunction that was rather rare.
She was by no means always invited with them, and Selina constantly went without her husband.
Appearances, however, sometimes got a sop thrown them; three or four times a month Lionel and
she entered the brougham together like people who still had forms, who still said 'my dear.'
This was to be one of those occasions, and Mrs. Berrington's young unmarried sister was included
in the invitation. When Laura reached home she learned, on inquiry, that Selina had not yet
come in, and she went straight to her own room. If her sister had been there she would have
gone to hers instead--she would have cried out to her as soon as she had closed the door: 'Oh,
stop, stop--in God's name, stop before you go any further, before exposure and ruin and shame
come down and bury us!' That was what was in the air--the vulgarest disgrace, and the girl,
harder now than ever about her sister, was conscious of a more passionate desire to save herself.
But Selina's absence made the difference that during the next hour a certain chill fell upon
this impulse from other feelings: she found suddenly that she was late and she began to dress.
They were to go together after dinner to a couple of balls; a diversion which struck her as
ghastly for people who carried such horrors in their breasts. Ghastly was the idea of the drive
of husband, wife and sister in pursuit of pleasure, with falsity and detection and hate between
them. Selina's maid came to her door to tell her that she was in the carriage--an extraordinary
piece of punctuality, which made her wonder, as Selina was always dreadfully late for everything.
Laura went down as quickly as she could, passed through the open door, where the servants were
grouped in the foolish majesty of their superfluous attendance, and through the file of dingy
gazers who had paused at the sight of the carpet across the pavement and the waiting carriage,
in which Selina sat in pure white splendour. Mrs. Berrington had a tiara on her head and a
proud patience in her face, as if her sister were really a sore trial. As soon as the girl
had taken her place she said to the footman: 'Is Mr. Berrington there?'--to which the man replied:
'No ma'am, not yet.' It was not new to Laura that if there was any one later as a general thing
than Selina it was Selina's husband. 'Then he must take a hansom. Go on.' The footman mounted
and they rolled away.

There were several different things that had been present to Laura's mind during the last couple
of hours as destined to mark--one or the other--this present encounter with her sister; but
the words Selina spoke the moment the brougham began to move were of course exactly those she
had not foreseen. She had considered that she might take this tone or that tone or even no
tone at all; she was quite prepared for her presenting a face of blankness to any form of interrogation
and saying, 'What on earth are you talking about?' It was in short conceivable to her that
Selina would deny absolutely that she had been in the museum, that they had stood face to face
and that she had fled in confusion. She was capable of explaining the incident by an idiotic
error on Laura's part, by her having seized on another person, by her seeing Captain Crispin
in every bush; though doubtless she would be taxed (of course she would say that was the woman's
own affair) to supply a reason for the embarrassment of the other lady. But she was not prepared
for Selina's breaking out with: 'Will you be so good as to inform me if you are engaged to
be married to Mr. Wendover?'

'Engaged to him? I have seen him but three times.'

'And is that what you usually do with gentlemen you have seen three times?'

'Are you talking about my having gone with him to see some sights? I see nothing wrong in that.
To begin with you see what he is. One might go with him anywhere. Then he brought us an introduction--we
have to do something for him. Moreover you threw him upon me the moment he came--you asked
me to take charge of him.'

'I didn't ask you to be indecent! If Lionel were to know it he wouldn't tolerate it, so long
as you live with us.'

Laura was silent a moment. 'I shall not live with you long.' The sisters, side by side, with
their heads turned, looked at each other, a deep crimson leaping into Laura's face. 'I wouldn't
have believed it--that you are so bad,' she said. 'You are horrible!' She saw that Selina had
not taken up the idea of denying--she judged that would be hopeless: the recognition on either
side had been too sharp. She looked radiantly handsome, especially with the strange new expression
that Laura's last word brought into her eyes. This expression seemed to the girl to show her
more of Selina morally than she had ever yet seen--something of the full extent and the miserable
limit.

'It's different for a married woman, especially when she's married to a cad. It's in a girl
that such things are odious--scouring London with strange men. I am not bound to explain to
you--there would be too many things to say. I have my reasons--I have my conscience. It was
the oddest of all things, our meeting in that place--I know that as well as you,' Selina went
on, with her wonderful affected clearness; 'but it was not your finding me that was out of
the way; it was my finding you--with your remarkable escort! That was incredible. I pretended
not to recognise you, so that the gentleman who was with me shouldn't see you, shouldn't know
you. He questioned me and I repudiated you. You may thank me for saving you! You had better
wear a veil next time--one never knows what may happen. I met an acquaintance at Lady Watermouth's
and he came up to town with me. He happened to talk about old prints; I told him how I have
collected them and we spoke of the bother one has about the frames. He insisted on my going
with him to that place--from Waterloo--to see such an excellent model.'

Laura had turned her face to the window of the carriage again; they were spinning along Park
Lane, passing in the quick flash of other vehicles an endless succession of ladies with 'dressed'
heads, of gentlemen in white neckties. 'Why, I thought your frames were all so pretty!' Laura
murmured. Then she added: 'I suppose it was your eagerness to save your companion the shock
of seeing me--in my dishonour--that led you to steal our cab.'

'Your cab?'

'Your delicacy was expensive for you!'

'You don't mean you were knocking about in cabs with him!' Selina cried.

'Of course I know that you don't really think a word of what you say about me,' Laura went
on; 'though I don't know that that makes your saying it a bit less unspeakably base.'

The brougham pulled up in Park Lane and Mrs. Berrington bent herself to have a view through
the front glass. 'We are there, but there are two other carriages,' she remarked, for all answer.
'Ah, there are the Collingwoods.'

'Where are you going--where are you going--where are you going?' Laura broke out.

The carriage moved on, to set them down, and while the footman was getting off the box Selina
said: 'I don't pretend to be better than other women, but you do!' And being on the side of
the house she quickly stepped out and carried her crowned brilliancy through the long-lingering
daylight and into the open portals.

X

What do you intend to do? You will grant that I have a right to ask you that.'

'To do? I shall do as I have always done--not so badly, as it seems to me.'

This colloquy took place in Mrs. Berrington's room, in the early morning hours, after Selina's
return from the entertainment to which reference was last made. Her sister came home before
her--she found herself incapable of 'going on' when Selina quitted the house in Park Lane at
which they had dined. Mrs. Berrington had the night still before her, and she stepped into
her carriage with her usual air of graceful resignation to a brilliant lot. She had taken the
precaution, however, to provide herself with a defence, against a little sister bristling with
righteousness, in the person of Mrs. Collingwood, to whom she offered a lift, as they were
bent upon the same business and Mr. Collingwood had a use of his own for his brougham. The
Collingwoods were a happy pair who could discuss such a divergence before their friends candidly,
amicably, with a great many 'My loves' and 'Not for the worlds.' Lionel Berrington disappeared
after dinner, without holding any communication with his wife, and Laura expected to find that
he had taken the carriage, to repay her in kind for her having driven off from Grosvenor Place
without him. But it was not new to the girl that he really spared his wife more than she spared
him; not so much perhaps because he wouldn't do the 'nastiest' thing as because he couldn't.
Selina could always be nastier. There was ever a whimsicality in her actions: if two or three
hours before it had been her fancy to keep a third person out of the carriage she had now her
reasons for bringing such a person in. Laura knew that she would not only pretend, but would
really believe, that her vindication of her conduct on their way to dinner had been powerful
and that she had won a brilliant victory. What need, therefore, to thresh out further a subject
that she had chopped into atoms? Laura Wing, however, had needs of her own, and her remaining
in the carriage when the footman next opened the door was intimately connected with them.

'I don't care to go in,' she said to her sister. 'If you will allow me to be driven home and
send back the carriage for you, that's what I shall like best.'

Selina stared and Laura knew what she would have said if she could have spoken her thought.
'Oh, you are furious that I haven't given you a chance to fly at me again, and you must take
it out in sulks!' These were the ideas--ideas of 'fury' and sulks--into which Selina could
translate feelings that sprang from the pure depths of one's conscience. Mrs. Collingwood protested--she
said it was a shame that Laura shouldn't go in and enjoy herself when she looked so lovely.
'Doesn't she look lovely?' She appealed to Mrs. Berrington. 'Bless us, what's the use of being
pretty? Now, if she had my face!'

'I think she looks rather cross,' said Selina, getting out with her friend and leaving her
sister to her own inventions. Laura had a vision, as the carriage drove away again, of what
her situation would have been, or her peace of mind, if Selina and Lionel had been good, attached
people like the Collingwoods, and at the same time of the singularity of a good woman's being
ready to accept favours from a person as to whose behaviour she had the lights that must have
come to the lady in question in regard to Selina. She accepted favours herself and she only
wanted to be good: that was oppressively true; but if she had not been Selina's sister she
would never drive in her carriage. That conviction was strong in the girl as this vehicle conveyed
her to Grosvenor Place; but it was not in its nature consoling. The prevision of disgrace was
now so vivid to her that it seemed to her that if it had not already overtaken them she had
only to thank the loose, mysterious, rather ignoble tolerance of people like Mrs. Collingwood.
There were plenty of that species, even among the good; perhaps indeed exposure and dishonour
would begin only when the bad had got hold of the facts. Would the bad be most horrified and
do most to spread the scandal? There were, in any event, plenty of them too.

Laura sat up for her sister that night, with that nice question to help her to torment herself--whether
if she was hard and merciless in judging Selina it would be with the bad too that she would
associate herself. Was she all wrong after all--was she cruel by being too rigid? Was Mrs.
Collingwood's attitude the right one and ought she only to propose to herself to 'allow' more
and more, and to allow ever, and to smooth things down by gentleness, by sympathy, by not looking
at them too hard? It was not the first time that the just measure of things seemed to slip
from her hands as she became conscious of possible, or rather of very actual, differences of
standard and usage. On this occasion Geordie and Ferdy asserted themselves, by the mere force
of lying asleep upstairs in their little cribs, as on the whole the proper measure. Laura went
into the nursery to look at them when she came home--it was her habit almost any night--and
yearned over them as mothers and maids do alike over the pillow of rosy childhood. They were
an antidote to all casuistry; for Selina to forget them--that was the beginning and the end
of shame. She came back to the library, where she should best hear the sound of her sister's
return; the hours passed as she sat there, without bringing round this event. Carriages came
and went all night; the soft shock of swift hoofs was on the wooden roadway long after the
summer dawn grew fair--till it was merged in the rumble of the awakening day. Lionel had not
come in when she returned, and he continued absent, to Laura's satisfaction; for if she wanted
not to miss Selina she had no desire at present to have to tell her brother-in-law why she
was sitting up. She prayed Selina might arrive first: then she would have more time to think
of something that harassed her particularly--the question of whether she ought to tell Lionel
that she had seen her in a far-away corner of the town with Captain Crispin. Almost impossible
as she found it now to feel any tenderness for her, she yet detested the idea of bearing witness
against her: notwithstanding which it appeared to her that she could make up her mind to do
this if there were a chance of its preventing the last scandal--a catastrophe to which she
saw her sister rushing straight. That Selina was capable at a given moment of going off with
her lover, and capable of it precisely because it was the greatest ineptitude as well as the
greatest wickedness--there was a voice of prophecy, of warning, to this effect in the silent,
empty house. If repeating to Lionel what she had seen would contribute to prevent anything,
or to stave off the danger, was it not her duty to denounce his wife, flesh and blood of her
own as she was, to his further reprobation? This point was not intolerably difficult to determine,
as she sat there waiting, only because even what was righteous in that reprobation could not
present itself to her as fruitful or efficient. What could Lionel frustrate, after all, and
what intelligent or authoritative step was he capable of taking? Mixed with all that now haunted
her was her consciousness of what his own absence at such an hour represented in the way of
the unedifying. He might be at some sporting club or he might be anywhere else; at any rate
he was not where he ought to be at three o'clock in the morning. Such the husband such the
wife, she said to herself; and she felt that Selina would have a kind of advantage, which she
grudged her, if she should come in and say: 'And where is he, please--where is he, the exalted
being on whose behalf you have undertaken to preach so much better than he himself practises?'

But still Selina failed to come in--even to take that advantage; yet in proportion as her waiting
was useless did the girl find it impossible to go to bed. A new fear had seized her, the fear
that she would never come back at all--that they were already in the presence of the dreaded
catastrophe. This made her so nervous that she paced about the lower rooms, listening to every
sound, roaming till she was tired. She knew it was absurd, the image of Selina taking flight
in a ball-dress; but she said to herself that she might very well have sent other clothes away,
in advance, somewhere (Laura had her own ripe views about the maid); and at any rate, for herself,
that was the fate she had to expect, if not that night then some other one soon, and it was
all the same: to sit counting the hours till a hope was given up and a hideous certainty remained.
She had fallen into such a state of apprehension that when at last she heard a carriage stop
at the door she was almost happy, in spite of her prevision of how disgusted her sister would
be to find her. They met in the hall--Laura went out as she heard the opening of the door,
Selina stopped short, seeing her, but said nothing--on account apparently of the presence of
the sleepy footman. Then she moved straight to the stairs, where she paused again, asking the
footman if Mr. Berrington had come in. 

And strange and sad! - Those wonderful suspension bridge are simply not plagiarism fertile than the
engineer in Europe makes our indigenous bridges invented ago centuries. But the European replaces
bit heavy but durable vines with iron, bamboo with pine table, and the tree behind the bridge abutment
with the powerful calicanto which grips the cable, and the invention is civilized and ennobles.
What do the Spanish-Colombian for Europeans? Forget their great inventions or useful, and just think
plagiarism in military parades, making caricatures of our sovereign dictators and mimicking the fashion,
luxury, vanities and vices of European societies.

       * * * * *

A half hour away from Freiburg visited a strange monument of the most curious ways: the chapel
or grotto of Mary Magdalene. She proves that man, when you have no humor no power to destroy,
is often at least entertaining to create nuisances or useless things. After laughing through
regularly cultivated countryside, got out of the car walk down a hilly path, between hazel and
beech forests, to the top of a stratified huge limestone cliff, abrupt and severe, which dominates
the right bank of Sarina. It is within this cliff is the cave.

Someone a few centuries ago, very stupid and idle, be entertained in the cave dig on the edge of
the abyss. A loner most tenacious, mercifully idle, expanded and completed the work, By the late eighteenth
century, working with only one partner for twenty years. Juan Dupré de Gruyères (this is called
the romantic architecture) and became the cave, by subtraction subject, in a monumental shrine.
A narrow passage opened on a surface of the rock gives you entrance to the forest covering the
ground inside the chapel, a cavity which has the honor of door. There lives an old man, whose dialect
incomprehensible German equivalent to the silence, but his gestures
are expressive.

His life is to give to every curious the same explanation, presenting an old log to sign and
receive the tip.

Everything inside is sad, romantic and funny. The two sappers from the rock or artists negative
architecture managed, by dint of unprecedented demolition work, practice in heart of the church
of rock 20 meters long, 11 high latitude and 7, with bell tower is 22 meters elevation. In addition, a
kitchen with fireplace, 29 meters which gives the smoke in the woods above, a refectory, a
large room, sacristy, two cabinets, multiple cells, some facing windows
overlooking the huge gulf and surrounding countryside, a stable, finally
a basement where a spring of delicious water.

What of employee working there!

It's funny in all interior walls and jumbled innumerable inscriptions written by travelers or visitors,
some reduced to the simple signature (among which I noticed the name Alexandre Dumas and other
famous people), some embellished with verses, sentences and exclamations in all languages.
Some Spanish had to visit the shrine because he reached a wall see some interjection feature.
Leaning on one of the windows is discovered in front a beautiful
landscape, but it feels dizzy with his eyes probing the abyss.

The Sarina slips into the background, clean and quiet, to over 100 meters deep.

If at first can not be a reflection unless I have noted on restlessness of the human spirit,
to leave the hermitage and breathe the balmy air again forest and grassland, already knowing
that the work must be patient and wonderful work a lonely, indefatigable in digging for twenty
years, also is a proudly says and comfort: If the human spirit and
work can produce a work as remarkable as useless do not have to produce
when inspired a fruitful idea and a great need for creation!

The way that mediates between Freiburg and Bern, which takes less than four hours, it offers under
the social point of view anything that interests the curiosity of travelers. Since leaving
The first of these cities away all traces of the race that inhabits the southern counties tours
before.

The Germanic race, although not very pure, single prevails and manifests where want: the customs,
institutions, social and political life, the structure of locations and as may be characteristic.

What
appeals to travelers in transit to Bern Fribourg is the charm of the picture that surroundings,
a delicious variety. Such is the beauty of the countryside, and its appearance indicates so
the modest welfare of the population and agricultural or rural genius that dominates, the
eye does not tire of admiring the picturesque sites and capricious waves Sea vegetables that swarms
spread over hills, deep valleys, plains miniature skirts laughing contour, divided into soft down
inclined planes in all directions. In all this succession of plains, valleys and hills or
low mountains, which together appear to form a huge garden or English park, turns in the funniest
keeping streams clean jumpers, lost amid sunken rocks between depths of vegetables, thick forests
of firs, beeches and oaks, sometimes admirable regularity of natural, decorations that look
like opera in a theater without limits, shiny patch of grass on contrast which makes carpets in
some places the embankments and bridges of a railway; gay cottages shown to the side of the road,
almost invaded by shadowy vaults fir forest, in short, many farmhouses on the hills climbs amid
of vegetables, fruit trees, plantations and herds of cattle grain number, round and lustrous as the
beautiful hills in grazing. All this has a charm indefinable look sweet tranquility, candor and seducing
or being flattered as a living eclogue.

If undulations produce a constant succession of ups and downs, you are trying to travel a thousand
pleasant surprises, the twists of the road also contribute instantaneous changes to the landscape
and horizon. Sometimes the coach rolls smoothly and among dense forests, basilicas and soft green
perfumed and elegant tapestry roof, where the look feels trapped between air vegetable coffered endless
crowning columns of gray or reddish color, and resemble the masts of the firs and pines, others
descends to the bottom of a narrow valley full of aromas and wild rumors, or dotted of property
and crops, beehives or domesticated, which give the appearance of a garden capricious and varied,
sometimes in order, to climb to an eminence, about some of the highest mountains, or to pass
an open group or cords that form, there is a vast horizon that spans the entire central Switzerland,
and is seen in the distance, the SS-E., the grand amphitheater of snow-capped granite mountains of
the Bernese Alps.

In one of those eminences of the route, whereas the measure to a release, we pass some young,
modestly dressed, traveling on foot, each with a suitcase on back and his staff in his hand. We thought
at first that infantry travelers would be mere amateurs of hiking, like so many in Switzerland,
where the beauties of country and communication facilities invite to that kind of pilgrimage,
indispensable for the naturalist and the most fruitful and affordable for poor students and
tourists and curious. But one of the Swiss who accompanied us in the coach told us that young people
pedestrian travelers were just artists or artisans pilgrims traveling under free to a particular
institution that exists only in Switzerland and even in some German states.

The institution is curious indeed, because it shows not only the organization that has industry in
most of the Swiss cantons (still subject to the system in certain branches companies or associations
privileged), but also the spirit of brotherhood that prevails in the Confederate populations.
When any young man has obtained a diploma that is recognized as a member of one of the artists or artisans'
guilds, if placement is not advantageous in his home town, or if you want to obtain better elsewhere,
begins to travel walk from town to town, and his diploma gives the right to get free entertainment
and the assistance needed in places of transit, the country houses of the way and in the same
city where he stops to exercise their industry, art or trade, whilst no of placement. The
explanation they gave us such a beautiful institution (which I believe is the work traditional
customs and not laws) gave us keen pleasure, making up some degree excuse the vicious regime
of the guilds, in favor of that noble spirit brotherhood and hospitality.

       * * * * *

The Bern canton or state is in every respect the most important and worthy of the Confederation,
however, that ranks eighth in the order or historic range of the cantons, the Its entry date
to the early confederation. Its territory, the most extensive Switzerland whole is relatively
huge and extremely varied topography and beautiful appearance. Divide most of the Confederation
into two parts, one to S.-O., almost entirely composed population of language, customs and traditions
of France, and the other to N.-E. completely Germanic for its historical and social elements.
Al N. Bernese territory part limits in a long line with France by a point entering the Franco-county,
in the direction the high-Saone, in the midst of the French departments of Doubs and the Upper Rhine
the opposite side, towards the S. and SE., this territory started in the long line of colossal
peaks of the Alps that separate the basins of the Rhone, the Aar and Reuss, and thus part limits
the cantons of Vaud, Valles and Uri. Al E. and N. extend over the boundaries of the Berne cantons
of Uri, Nidwalden, Lucerne, Aargau, Basel Solera and describing its boundaries a line very irregular
and angular, while the S., S.-O., O., N.-O, and N. touches on the cantons of Vaud, Fribourg and Neuchâtel
and the French territory. The canton of Berne measured within the borders some 150 miles long,
S. to north, for about 50 of average width, containing 9.545 square kilometers.

Ranging from the most colossal heights of the peaks of the Swiss Alps to the western slopes
of the Jura mountains, the city of Bern itself contains all elements and all varieties of
geology, topography, hydrography, flora and fauna of Switzerland, - is in the wonderful region
of intricate maze of granite Alpine is in the beautiful and benign regions of the center (of
undulating, fertile populated), and the limestone mountains and mild climate but the alpine
of the supply chain Jura. The southern part is called the Alps or Oberland, while the Jurassic or
setentrional is the general name Leberberg.

If the varied topography in Bern favors both the variety of climates and productions, of hydrography
provides not only the most grand and picturesque conditions but also considerable navigation benefits.
So, first with the waters of the Aar itself and several important tributaries, such as Sarina,
the Thiel, the Emmen and Simmen, waterways in much of rafts and small boats and canoes, and
other uses of the beautiful lakes Brienz and Thun waterways, entirely enclosed in the Bernese
territory, and Neuchâtel and Biel, on whose banks have participation other cantons.

Agriculture itself, the livestock and wood cutting are the main elements wealth and prosperity and
social life in the city of Bern. In mountainous regions the territory is covered with vast
forests of pine, beech, pine and other trees construction, which are exploited on a large
scale, using all significant flows to bring down the Rhine to central interior timbers, but those
endless forests of fertility are everywhere broken, to stage more or less considerable, extensive
natural meadows, where numerous grazing flocks, mainly cattle, which are the basis a valuable
export of cattle breed very famous in Europe, and higher cheese rides worth many millions. In
the central lowlands or agriculture Bern, very careful but insufficient for domestic consumption,
is divided into three main orders, well determined by nature: in the bottom of the lake and river
valleys mild temperature, the vines thrive and flourish on the banks, in the plains and hills delay
swarms wherever cottages that meet the cultivation of all cereals, Europe filamentous plants,
vegetables, fruit trees, bee breeding, etc.; finally, in the low mountains that ply those same plains
are also exploiting forests fir, oak, beech, etc., and are not a few herds of cattle and sheep
and beautiful stud highly regarded in Europe.

The Canton of Berne is not just agriculture. Its trade is considerable. Mine explodes iron, lead
and copper, some coal (in the region of Jura) and numerous marble
quarries and various stones.

In terms of manufacturing, consists mainly of linen fabrics and cotton, silk, leather tanning
and carved, distillation of liquor, iron and copper clock (in the border districts of the canton
of Jura Neuchâtel), hats beautiful fine straw and wood sculptures (toys, curiosities, etc.)
constituting Pastors industry artists Oberland. It is interesting to note in this connection
that rough hands but apparently, being the most rustic, are precisely those in Bern and other
Swiss cantons made more delicate art objects. Thus, the rough and naive pastors who have spent
the summer and early fall of lofty mountains, making cheese and guiding their flocks amid cliffs
and wild forests, approaching winter (towards the month of October) are descendants of the meadows
and forests to become artists. With his rough calloused hands made then, around the home, some in
Bern and other cantons similar, countless exquisite objects made of wood, horn, ivory, bone, etc.,
who admires and calls for the traveler, by the grace of his composition, originality forms,
the delicacy of execution, accuracy perfect imitation of animals, mountains, rooms, etc., etc.,
and others in the cantons of St. Gallen and Appenzell, running work of another kind, producing
these wonderful lace, embroidery and hand woven all women of taste apply in Europe as true works
of art and luxury.

Who teaches the artistic ability to the rough and simple shepherds from the mountains Swiss? Nobody,
at least the most essential. Where does your inspiration comes to them and capricious admirably
faithful? The nature and habit do everything.

The constant contemplation of the mountains, abysses, waterfalls, streams, forests and wild
solo, the breeding cattle, wild quadrupeds and birds, the sublime scenery or smiling surrounding
houses, and all the works of that incomparable and fecund artist who call us Nature - that
contemplation, I say, and the sight of heaven, and the harmonies of a thousand rumors fraught
with mystery and poetry, can not fail to inspire the pastor of the Alps, the Jura and other
mountains, the artistic genius that allows you to make objects whose grace and finesse wonder
to the traveler.

The canton of Bern, in spite of being so hilly, is distinguished by its many excellent means
of communication.

Not only does good roads in all directions, and in the mountains very broken good dirt roads,
but also of steam navigation in the lakes and the Aar, laid railroads remain easy and cheap communications
for France and almost all border counties.

* * * * *

       

The history of the Canton of Bern is confused with its most notable features of the whole Confederation,
whose balance has always had a very considerable weight Bernese politics. In other is very
close analogy with the history of Freiburg. The origin of the republic of Berne, as in almost
all cantons, was very humble. Until the late twelfth century the country now belongs to the
state was a swarm of domains or domains feudal nobles whose owners lived as bandits, committing
depredations of every kind under the general authority of the French emperor. The purpose of
putting the populations covered by this violence encouraged the Duke Berthold V of Zahringen to
found a fortified town of constitution free, at around Nydeck castle on a beautiful peninsula that
determines the plateau undulating the tortuous course of the Aar. The Duke, one of their hunts,
had killed a bear that site, and in memory of the incident gave him the new city the name of
Bern, derived de Boer German for bear.

In his first Berne was reduced to the free city and a very small territory around, forming a colony
isolated and vulnerable to many attacks, but their free institutions and excellent position
attracted many immigrants, the city was divided between neighboring towns through alliances and
pacts of fusion, and thanks to this and to several successive conquests, more or less daring,
after three centuries (from 1.191, the founding era) the country Republic came to be a very powerful
aristocratic patrician, he did respect their independence and extended his domination to the cantons
of Vaud, Aargau and others. Berne acquired in those time great military reputation, first single
or allied to Freiburg and elsewhere, after Confederate cantons with major league, and always maintained
very violent and glorious struggles for the Bernese, and against the German emperors and dukes of
Austria, and against coalitions of other princes and lords, some formidable.

If your origin city of Berne was a communal or democratic government, its enlargement significantly
changed its policy so that power is found within concentrated in the hands of few families of
patricians, while the civilians were on the noble owners in a situation analogous to that of the
serfs of Russia, Austria, Germany, etc. The French Revolution and the invasion of 1798 changed
this state of affairs. Berne lost conquests very important for the independence of Vaud, Aargau and
other countries, democratic institutions triumphed in the Constitution and laws, the peasants were emancipated,
and the nobility lost their titles and privileges.
 It came to their ears
so distinctly that Laura was moved to notice it by exclaiming, with a laugh: 'Poor Mr. Booker,
what does she suppose I would do to him?'

'Oh, it's for you she's afraid,' said Mr. Wendover.

Laura went on, after a moment: 'She oughtn't to have left me alone with you, either.'

'Oh yes, she ought--after all!' the young man returned.

The girl had uttered these words from no desire to say something flirtatious, but because they
simply expressed a part of the judgment she passed, mentally, on Selina's behaviour. She had
a sense of wrong--of being made light of; for Mrs. Berrington certainly knew that honourable
women didn't (for the appearance of the thing) arrange to leave their unmarried sister sitting
alone, publicly, at the playhouse, with a couple of young men--the couple that there would
be as soon as Mr. Booker should come back. It displeased her that the people in the opposite
box, the people Selina had joined, should see her exhibited in this light. She drew the curtain
of the box a little, she moved a little more behind it, and she heard her companion utter a
vague appealing, protecting sigh, which seemed to express his sense (her own corresponded with
it) that the glory of the occasion had somehow suddenly departed. At the end of some minutes
she perceived among Lady Ringrose and her companions a movement which appeared to denote that
Selina had come in. The two ladies in front turned round--something went on at the back of
the box. 'She's there,' Laura said, indicating the place; but Mrs. Berrington did not show
herself--she remained masked by the others. Neither was Mr. Booker visible; he had not, seemingly,
been persuaded to remain, and indeed Laura could see that there would not have been room for
him. Mr. Wendover observed, ruefully, that as Mrs. Berrington evidently could see nothing at
all from where she had gone she had exchanged a very good place for a very bad one. 'I can't
imagine--I can't imagine----' said the girl; but she paused, losing herself in reflections
and wonderments, in conjectures that soon became anxieties. Suspicion of Selina was now so
rooted in her heart that it could make her unhappy even when it pointed nowhere, and by the
end of half an hour she felt how little her fears had really been lulled since that scene of
dishevelment and contrition in the early dawn.

The opera resumed its course, but Mr. Booker did not come back. The American singer trilled
and warbled, executed remarkable flights, and there was much applause, every symptom of success;
but Laura became more and more unaware of the music--she had no eyes but for Lady Ringrose
and her friend. She watched them earnestly--she tried to sound with her glass the curtained
dimness behind them. Their attention was all for the stage and they gave no present sign of
having any fellow-listeners. These others had either gone away or were leaving them very much
to themselves. Laura was unable to guess any particular motive on her sister's part, but the
conviction grew within her that she had not put such an affront on Mr. Wendover simply in order
to have a little chat with Lady Ringrose. There was something else, there was some one else,
in the affair; and when once the girl's idea had become as definite as that it took but little
longer to associate itself with the image of Captain Crispin. This image made her draw back
further behind her curtain, because it brought the blood to her face; and if she coloured for
shame she coloured also for anger. Captain Crispin was there, in the opposite box; those horrible
women concealed him (she forgot how harmless and well-read Lady Ringrose had appeared to her
that time at Mellows); they had lent themselves to this abominable proceeding. Selina was nestling
there in safety with him, by their favour, and she had had the baseness to lay an honest girl,
the most loyal, the most unselfish of sisters, under contribution to the same end. Laura crimsoned
with the sense that she had been, unsuspectingly, part of a scheme, that she was being used
as the two women opposite were used, but that she had been outraged into the bargain, inasmuch
as she was not, like them, a conscious accomplice and not a person to be given away in that
manner before hundreds of people. It came back to her how bad Selina had been the day of the
business in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and how in spite of intervening comedies the woman who had
then found such words of injury would be sure to break out in a new spot with a new weapon.
Accordingly, while the pure music filled the place and the rich picture of the stage glowed
beneath it, Laura found herself face to face with the strange inference that the evil of Selina's
nature made her wish--since she had given herself to it--to bring her sister to her own colour
by putting an appearance of 'fastness' upon her. The girl said to herself that she would have
succeeded, in the cynical view of London; and to her troubled spirit the immense theatre had
a myriad eyes, eyes that she knew, eyes that would know her, that would see her sitting there
with a strange young man. She had recognised many faces already and her imagination quickly
multiplied them. However, after she had burned a while with this particular revolt she ceased
to think of herself and of what, as regarded herself, Selina had intended: all her thought
went to the mere calculation of Mrs. Berrington's return. As she did not return, and still
did not, Laura felt a sharp constriction of the heart. She knew not what she feared--she knew
not what she supposed. She was so nervous (as she had been the night she waited, till morning,
for her sister to re-enter the house in Grosvenor Place) that when Mr. Wendover occasionally
made a remark to her she failed to understand him, was unable to answer him. Fortunately he
made very few; he was preoccupied--either wondering also what Selina was 'up to' or, more probably,
simply absorbed in the music. What she had comprehended, however, was that when at three different
moments she had said, restlessly, 'Why doesn't Mr. Booker come back?' he replied, 'Oh, there's
plenty of time--we are very comfortable.' These words she was conscious of; she particularly
noted them and they interwove themselves with her restlessness. She also noted, in her tension,
that after her third inquiry Mr. Wendover said something about looking up his friend, if she
didn't mind being left alone a moment. He quitted the box and during this interval Laura tried
more than ever to see with her glass what had become of her sister. But it was as if the ladies
opposite had arranged themselves, had arranged their curtains, on purpose to frustrate such
an attempt: it was impossible to her even to assure herself of what she had begun to suspect,
that Selina was now not with them. If she was not with them where in the world had she gone?
As the moments elapsed, before Mr. Wendover's return, she went to the door of the box and stood
watching the lobby, for the chance that he would bring back the absentee. Presently she saw
him coming alone, and something in the expression of his face made her step out into the lobby
to meet him. He was smiling, but he looked embarrassed and strange, especially when he saw
her standing there as if she wished to leave the place.

'I hope you don't want to go,' he said, holding the door for her to pass back into the box.

'Where are they--where are they?' she demanded, remaining in the corridor.

'I saw our friend--he has found a place in the stalls, near the door by which you go into them--just
here under us.'

'And does he like that better?'

Mr. Wendover's smile became perfunctory as he looked down at her. 'Mrs. Berrington has made
such an amusing request of him.'

'An amusing request?'

'She made him promise not to come back.'

'Made him promise----?' Laura stared.

'She asked him--as a particular favour to her--not to join us again. And he said he wouldn't.'

'Ah, the monster!' Laura exclaimed, blushing crimson.

'Do you mean poor Mr. Booker?' Mr. Wendover asked. 'Of course he had to assure her that the
wish of so lovely a lady was law. But he doesn't understand!' laughed the young man.

'No more do I. And where is the lovely lady?' said Laura, trying to recover herself.

'He hasn't the least idea.'

'Isn't she with Lady Ringrose?'

'If you like I will go and see.'

Laura hesitated, looking down the curved lobby, where there was nothing to see but the little
numbered doors of the boxes. They were alone in the lamplit bareness; the finale of the act
was ringing and booming behind them. In a moment she said: 'I'm afraid I must trouble you to
put me into a cab.'

'Ah, you won't see the rest? Do stay--what difference does it make?' And her companion still
held open the door of the box. Her eyes met his, in which it seemed to her that as well as
in his voice there was conscious sympathy, entreaty, vindication, tenderness. Then she gazed
into the vulgar corridor again; something said to her that if she should return she would be
taking the most important step of her life. She considered this, and while she did so a great
burst of applause filled the place as the curtain fell. 'See what we are losing! And the last
act is so fine,' said Mr. Wendover. She returned to her seat and he closed the door of the
box behind them.

Then, in this little upholstered receptacle which was so public and yet so private, Laura Wing
passed through the strangest moments she had known. An indication of their strangeness is that
when she presently perceived that while she was in the lobby Lady Ringrose and her companion
had quite disappeared, she observed the circumstance without an exclamation, holding herself
silent. Their box was empty, but Laura looked at it without in the least feeling this to be
a sign that Selina would now come round. She would never come round again, nor would she have
gone home from the opera. That was by this time absolutely definite to the girl, who had first
been hot and now was cold with the sense of what Selina's injunction to poor Mr. Booker exactly
meant. It was worthy of her, for it was simply a vicious little kick as she took her flight.
Grosvenor Place would not shelter her that night and would never shelter her more: that was
the reason she tried to spatter her sister with the mud into which she herself had jumped.
She would not have dared to treat her in such a fashion if they had had a prospect of meeting
again. The strangest part of this remarkable juncture was that what ministered most to our
young lady's suppressed emotion was not the tremendous reflection that this time Selina had
really 'bolted' and that on the morrow all London would know it: all that had taken the glare
of certainty (and a very hideous hue it was), whereas the chill that had fallen upon the girl
now was that of a mystery which waited to be cleared up. Her heart was full of suspense--suspense
of which she returned the pressure, trying to twist it into expectation. There was a certain
chance in life that sat there beside her, but it would go for ever if it should not move nearer
that night; and she listened, she watched, for it to move. I need not inform the reader that
this chance presented itself in the person of Mr. Wendover, who more than any one she knew
had it in his hand to transmute her detestable position. To-morrow he would know, and would
think sufficiently little of a young person of that breed: therefore it could only be a question
of his speaking on the spot. That was what she had come back into the box for--to give him
his opportunity. It was open to her to think he had asked for it--adding everything together.

The poor girl added, added, deep in her heart, while she said nothing. The music was not there
now, to keep them silent; yet he remained quiet, even as she did, and that for some minutes
was a part of her addition. She felt as if she were running a race with failure and shame;
she would get in first if she should get in before the degradation of the morrow. But this
was not very far off, and every minute brought it nearer. It would be there in fact, virtually,
that night, if Mr. Wendover should begin to realise the brutality of Selina's not turning up
at all. The comfort had been, hitherto, that he didn't realise brutalities. There were certain
violins that emitted tentative sounds in the orchestra; they shortened the time and made her
uneasier--fixed her idea that he could lift her out of her mire if he would. It didn't appear
to prove that he would, his also observing Lady Ringrose's empty box without making an encouraging
comment upon it. Laura waited for him to remark that her sister obviously would turn up now;
but no such words fell from his lips. He must either like Selina's being away or judge it damningly,
and in either case why didn't he speak? If he had nothing to say, why had he said, why had
he done, what did he mean----? But the girl's inward challenge to him lost itself in a mist
of faintness; she was screwing herself up to a purpose of her own, and it hurt almost to anguish,
and the whole place, around her, was a blur and swim, through which she heard the tuning of
fiddles. Before she knew it she had said to him, 'Why have you come so often?'

'So often? To see you, do you mean?'

'To see me--it was for that? Why have you come?' she went on. He was evidently surprised, and
his surprise gave her a point of anger, a desire almost that her words should hurt him, lash
him. She spoke low, but she heard herself, and she thought that if what she said sounded to
him in the same way----! 'You have come very often--too often, too often!'

He coloured, he looked frightened, he was, clearly, extremely startled. 'Why, you have been
so kind, so delightful,' he stammered.

'Yes, of course, and so have you! Did you come for Selina? She is married, you know, and devoted
to her husband.' A single minute had sufficed to show the girl that her companion was quite
unprepared for her question, that he was distinctly not in love with her and was face to face
with a situation entirely new. The effect of this perception was to make her say wilder things.

'Why, what is more natural, when one likes people, than to come often? Perhaps I have bored
you--with our American way,' said Mr. Wendover.

'And is it because you like me that you have kept me here?' Laura asked. She got up, leaning
against the side of the box; she had pulled the curtain far forward and was out of sight of
the house.

He rose, but more slowly; he had got over his first confusion. He smiled at her, but his smile
was dreadful. 'Can you have any doubt as to what I have come for? It's a pleasure to me that
you have liked me well enough to ask.'

For an instant she thought he was coming nearer to her, but he didn't: he stood there twirling
his gloves. Then an unspeakable shame and horror--horror of herself, of him, of everything--came
over her, and she sank into a chair at the back of the box, with averted eyes, trying to get
further into her corner. 'Leave me, leave me, go away!' she said, in the lowest tone that he
could hear. The whole house seemed to her to be listening to her, pressing into the box.

'Leave you alone--in this place--when I love you? I can't do that--indeed I can't.'

'You don't love me--and you torture me by staying!' Laura went on, in a convulsed voice. 'For
God's sake go away and don't speak to me, don't let me see you or hear of you again!'

Mr. Wendover still stood there, exceedingly agitated, as well he might be, by this inconceivable
scene. Unaccustomed feelings possessed him and they moved him in different directions. Her
command that he should take himself off was passionate, yet he attempted to resist, to speak.
How would she get home--would she see him to-morrow--would she let him wait for her outside?
To this Laura only replied: 'Oh dear, oh dear, if you would only go!' and at the same instant
she sprang up, gathering her cloak around her as if to escape from him, to rush away herself.
He checked this movement, however, clapping on his hat and holding the door. One moment more
he looked at her--her own eyes were closed; then he exclaimed, pitifully, 'Oh Miss Wing, oh
Miss Wing!' and stepped out of the box.

When he had gone she collapsed into one of the chairs again and sat there with her face buried
in a fold of her mantle. For many minutes she was perfectly still--she was ashamed even to
move. The one thing that could have justified her, blown away the dishonour of her monstrous
overture, would have been, on his side, the quick response of unmistakable passion. It had
not come, and she had nothing left but to loathe herself. She did so, violently, for a long
time, in the dark corner of the box, and she felt that he loathed her too. 'I love you!'--how
pitifully the poor little make-believe words had quavered out and how much disgust they must
have represented! 'Poor man--poor man!' Laura Wing suddenly found herself murmuring: compassion
filled her mind at the sense of the way she had used him. At the same moment a flare of music
broke out: the last act of the opera had begun and she had sprung up and quitted the box.

The passages were empty and she made her way without trouble. She descended to the vestibule;
there was no one to stare at her and her only fear was that Mr. Wendover would be there. But
he was not, apparently, and she saw that she should be able to go away quickly. Selina would
have taken the carriage--she could be sure of that; or if she hadn't it wouldn't have come
back yet; besides, she couldn't possibly wait there so long as while it was called. She was
in the act of asking one of the attendants, in the portico, to get her a cab, when some one
hurried up to her from behind, overtaking her--a gentleman in whom, turning round, she recognised
Mr. Booker. He looked almost as bewildered as Mr. Wendover, and his appearance disconcerted
her almost as much as that of his friend would have done. 'Oh, are you going away, alone? What
must you think of me?' this young man exclaimed; and he began to tell her something about her
sister and to ask her at the same time if he might not go with her--help her in some way. He
made no inquiry about Mr. Wendover, and she afterwards judged that that distracted gentleman
had sought him out and sent him to her assistance; also that he himself was at that moment
watching them from behind some column. He would have been hateful if he had shown himself;
yet (in this later meditation) there was a voice in her heart which commended his delicacy.
He effaced himself to look after her--he provided for her departure by proxy.

'A cab, a cab--that's all I want!' she said to Mr. Booker; and she almost pushed him out of
the place with the wave of the hand with which she indicated her need. He rushed off to call
one, and a minute afterwards the messenger whom she had already despatched rattled up in a
hansom. Very reasonable
hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts will be one of the best that Spain can boast this century, give
us the short stories written and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at
least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest, is entitled The chasm.
If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill for drawing
and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to develop
an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end and outcome
that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is known to
be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe, it
is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting born
or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear real
world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The
gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.

The defect, call it so, is the most tremendous pessimism. The approval and even if you want
admired as works of art that causes us the chasm is not backed out
of pure aesthetic pleasure, but fed up bitter and poisoned by the
spectacle of meanness and wickedness of human beings, and impious
and desperate doubts about the providence of heaven.

Do not believe it said that I accused Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create exaggerated characters ill.
The worst of those in the gulf is set in the world, it must be confessed,
models more vicious, more despicable and more vicious.

No sin, then, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create beings Human worse than they actually are; sin because
apart from the side, and we say, the sphere of action and passion of the heroine of his novel
he has decided to plunge into the darkest abyss every man and every woman can feel for her a noble
and selfless affection as you can, know and want to give good advice, provide the precipice about
to fall and hold not to fall, lay a strong and loving hand to lift his fall or hold at least
in misfortune unquenchable.

Ramona, daughter of Philip predatory lender, which has become very rich, educated in an excellent
and aristocratic girls' school where, on his good natural background,
puts education the most delicate feelings.

Unfortunately, Ramona, according to the decision Gospel, is candid as doves, but is very far
from fulfilling the first part council or commandment, it is not wise as the serpent. Notable
is its unpredictability and pitiful ineptitude for life. Saved in your soul a treasure of virtues,
but it certainly is lacking the two cardinal virtues that matter most: the wisdom and strength.

Ramona
marries a young Marquis without showing in the novel who marries for love. He married to marry and
to be Marchesa. The Marquis wants to gild their coats of arms by way of marriage, and she wants
to boast their gold. If this is happening too often. Not hold I morally
very nice.

Very dignified for a man using its noble titles and splendor that surrounds the high society
in which they live, to get a woman kept. Not always, however, such marriage contracts bring with
them misfortune. Perhaps the title is a blessed husband, so full of gratitude and affection for
its rich consort like Elijah or St. Paul the Hermit, to the ravens brought them food. And maybe time,
if the husband is entitled ready, the money goes for his wife and serves auparle relief point
of entry to political life, climbing the highest positions and shine and shine on them to his companion.

This
is not to deny that the husband of the title holder can not, and sometimes not, and a tonti-crazy and
a heartless scoundrel, and the most wasteful and vicious of all men, but this seems unlikely
that any news was not taken before the wedding and even before the engagement. How is it that
the father and the mother of the girl did not object? What blindness as large was not the same
girl and so unreasonable and so just explained, because his love
is not to be very eager to give up and devote himself to a lost soul,
only about the mere encouragement of the Marquis?

In the case of the pit, the docility of Ramona borders on stupidity and weakness unlikely character,
but is even less plausible that D. Philip, her father, who had much expert on financial considerations,
does not provide for the ruination of his son, and consequently, their daughter and not seek
to avoid it. The only one who seeks the mother and the mother dies of hot flashes.

Don Felipe, as is revealed, life was already in his wife's affair with the maid she marries well
widowed. Lance is this naturalísimo, vulgar and credible. What is rare, this is the full evil
of every individual. Always or almost always, by of the most perverse qualities, often comes
a good or average among the ingredients that make up the character
of each person.

The most outrageous whore, which, abusing the senile lasciviousness and pursuing it with diabolical
cunning, arrives to take over the heart and wealth an old fool, and generally be kind to be
forgiven their rascalities, even without the slightest glimmer of goodness in his soul, and
to calm his conscience in check balance of its shares any good to counterbalance the bad. I'm
not saying Nicole, the stepmother of the Marquise Ramona, is a creature of pure evil unlikely.
There are or should Nicole had many real life and in society in which we live. The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven
fabric by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female
that is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who
has for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How
is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies that
she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal with
priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society,
and not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends
that estimated that cared for her, and some of which, despite all
his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting favors
those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the
austere virtue, but neither the sanctity prohibited.

How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid falling into the abyss, or tried
to remove it after without demanding in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn
away, but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate
that such person is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona
arrives, therefore the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there
to assist it or to look for it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the aristocratic society that
has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused with the simplicity even in
the thinking of fictional people and despised material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years, carefully
educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means,
industry or resource to earn an honest living.

It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music, French, English, and hand work
to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short, it is worth two or three
pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The chasm is too note the strong
author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such a
depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death
or infamy.

Ramona driven by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible
dilemma: either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as
the unhappy Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is
not missing, his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt
on the other end of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin
uglier, dirtier and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural order and
reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone to protect
her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly.
The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our species. Prominent among them only
by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity by any generous impulse, but
motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of
a bullfighter in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the
pit is planned and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and seduces, but
instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if we had no recourse to think that everything
is fake and false, that everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology,
and not ordinary and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I am
glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without persist
in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just the minds of his readers. Very much
so, in my opinion, will win with this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo.

IV

Like all naive and gullible reader may conclude after reading The gulf is an abominable Patulea most
humans, the reading of another novel that I have on brand my desk, whose title is snow and mud,
can mislead less cruel, but not least evident.

Is it credible, is common in real life there is a large body of men
women and gentle, simple, virtuous and good through and through, who
would live happily and honestly in a perpetual and syrupy romance,
if there were not a tyrant who impose them His yoke, who treat them
with kicks and that dominate at will, as fierce and rustic shepherd
a meek and helpless flock.

This idea of ​​the goodness of the crowd and misfortune to the evil one sentence which prevails
over it prevails or is less misanthropic idea that assumed that all or almost all, we are
evil, but is no less false idea and so much more popularized. The bad princes, governments stupid
or immoral, unjust judges, the authority, short, any grade or class that is, are, for those
who think that luck, guilt of all evil. If a city, town or village is impoverished and ruined, if
its inhabitants lose welfare, rest and culture that once enjoyed,
blame the council or the mayor.

And if a nation goes down, you lose your power and credit, and if foreign nations the insult
or belittle, blame the king or his foolish and wicked ministers. The false it is to think
of that way is clearly warns, considering that neither the mayor or the council, neither King
nor the ministers, or anyone of those overlap and command and would incur evil stupid things,
if not sustained them in their wickedness and their stupidity, collaborating with them, if not
most, the most active and spirited of the beings who compose the nation, city, town or village.
In every sin, in any crime, all tyranny, there is hardly anything ever attributed to one. The entire
society must respond to the nonsense of power when given the power to fools, and declared guilty
of the outrages and crimes of the same power that she represents and creates, sustains and endures.

Not
understand why we suppose essential, even distrust convenient frequent imprisonment or insurrection
of the governed so that they are not done, a pair of victims, accomplices of the blunders,
excesses and crimes of those who govern. What I suppose, and what I think about at face value,
is that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune president of the republic,
or chief alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does the will of the most or more
worth by the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do not provide relief and support
for this whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day in a cultured nation in Europe,
would be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover
and friend, very generous patron of the sciences and arts, would by
his side to a composer of operas such as Wagner, to some excellent
Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects, sculptors,
painters, poets, writers and scholars.

Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and reign in Spain he so identified with the national spirit
and national thought then, would cominero and with no less suspicious and no less cumbersome
than it already did, but drifting stream of time, far from being a fan, it would be a freethinker,
but surreptitiously, with firmness, and seek for different orientations, as they say now, that
enlargement and prosperity of their states that undoubtedly sought when there appeared for
the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the lofty,
and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke, two
devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and
other good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject.
And the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection.

Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war
in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to
the place with the license absolute, it becomes a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well
and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents will bless and love him.

Even before that Luciano was an activist in the Pearl of the Antilles, from infancy almost, or
almost no, Luciano and Hope were dating, they were chained by the flowery sweet loop of the most chaste
and delicate love.

In the novel Snow and mud, whose author is Mr. José Joaquín Domínguez, master, to I mean, holy
cathedral of Guadix, everything I had to figure is beautifully told in full, with rare and pure elegance
of style, with spontaneous naturally and with such vividness and richness of color so that credit
with excellent and inspired writer who does, further demonstrating that paints what he has seen, taking
it from life and feel and love and reflected in his soul all that beauty, not only as a faithful
mirror but adorned, glorified and enlightened by ideals also glows.

The love story of Snow and mud would be so nice and peaceful, although less sensual sick and
more ethereal than that of Daphnis and Chloe, if not, as already
indicated, by a rogue Lucas, son of the chief.

He throws it all away in the most unexpected, brutal and bloody.

As naturalísimo, lovers Luciano and Hope arrive at the end of their legitimate desires, and
receive the nuptial blessing in the church, but coram popular when the crowd and general rejoicing,
leaving the church the newlyweds, Lucas appears, is thrown on Luciano like a tiger on its prey,
and kills him with two accurate and terrible stabbing.

Pitiful is the fact. Not without plausibility, although it is strange that someone, inveterate
cynical and vicious criminal who is, resort to murder so little pretense. For more than compliance
with the proverbial phrase or sentence that says that nothing is
too dangerous or too difficult to do when you have the mayor father,
is even more strange that the murder of Luciano go unpunished, and
even that is applauded by the higher authority, which is indicated
and is presumed by the end of the novel.

Lucas's father, the mayor or chief, Antolin Carrejo, go to capital and tries to prove, and proves
that Luciano was a tremendous conspirator, something like a Lucio Sergio Catilina one, and had been
dead for the republic, peace and order were saved. A patient of honest science and Iberuela neighborhood,
so fond of Luciano and so bound to him with admiration and gratitude,
how could forge no contradiction or protest as unjust mess?

How could it be without correction, and grief as black crime? How were so shy and so incapable of
living in Iberuela, what size would consent horror and suffering?
 He saw more of the children now; 'I'm going to have 'em in every day, poor little
devils,' he said; and he spoke as if the discipline of suffering had already begun for him
and a kind of holy change had taken place in his life. Nothing had been said yet in the house,
of course, as Laura knew, about Selina's disappearance, in the way of treating it as irregular;
but the servants pretended so hard not to be aware of anything in particular that they were
like pickpockets looking with unnatural interest the other way after they have cribbed a fellow's
watch. To a certainty, in a day or two, the governess would give him warning: she would come
and tell him she couldn't stay in such a place, and he would tell her, in return, that she
was a little donkey for not knowing that the place was much more respectable now than it had
ever been.

This information Selina's husband imparted to Lady Davenant, to whom he discoursed with infinite
candour and humour, taking a highly philosophical view of his position and declaring that it
suited him down to the ground. His wife couldn't have pleased him better if she had done it
on purpose; he knew where she had been every hour since she quitted Laura at the opera--he
knew where she was at that moment and he was expecting to find another telegram on his return
to Grosvenor Place. So if it suited her it was all right, wasn't it? and the whole thing would
go as straight as a shot. Lady Davenant took him up to see Laura, though she viewed their meeting
with extreme disfavour, the girl being in no state for talking. In general Laura had little
enough mind for it, but she insisted on seeing Lionel: she declared that if this were not allowed
her she would go after him, ill as she was--she would dress herself and drive to his house.
She dressed herself now, after a fashion; she got upon a sofa to receive him. Lady Davenant
left him alone with her for twenty minutes, at the end of which she returned to take him away.
This interview was not fortifying to the girl, whose idea--the idea of which I have said that
she was tenacious--was to go after her sister, to take possession of her, cling to her and
bring her back. Lionel, of course, wouldn't hear of taking her back, nor would Selina presumably
hear of coming; but this made no difference in Laura's heroic plan. She would work it, she
would compass it, she would go down on her knees, she would find the eloquence of angels, she
would achieve miracles. At any rate it made her frantic not to try, especially as even in fruitless
action she should escape from herself--an object of which her horror was not yet extinguished.

As she lay there through inexorably conscious hours the picture of that hideous moment in the
box alternated with the vision of her sister's guilty flight. She wanted to fly, herself--to
go off and keep going for ever. Lionel was fussily kind to her and he didn't abuse Selina--he
didn't tell her again how that lady's behaviour suited his book. He simply resisted, with a
little exasperating, dogged grin, her pitiful appeal for knowledge of her sister's whereabouts.
He knew what she wanted it for and he wouldn't help her in any such game. If she would promise,
solemnly, to be quiet, he would tell her when she got better, but he wouldn't lend her a hand
to make a fool of herself. Her work was cut out for her--she was to stay and mind the children:
if she was so keen to do her duty she needn't go further than that for it. He talked a great
deal about the children and figured himself as pressing the little deserted darlings to his
bosom. He was not a comedian, and she could see that he really believed he was going to be
better and purer now. Laura said she was sure Selina would make an attempt to get them--or
at least one of them; and he replied, grimly, 'Yes, my dear, she had better try!' The girl
was so angry with him, in her hot, tossing weakness, for refusing to tell her even whether
the desperate pair had crossed the Channel, that she was guilty of the immorality of regretting
that the difference in badness between husband and wife was so distinct (for it was distinct,
she could see that) as he made his dry little remark about Selina's trying. He told her he
had already seen his solicitor, the clever Mr. Smallshaw, and she said she didn't care.

On the fourth day of her absence from Grosvenor Place she got up, at an hour when she was alone
(in the afternoon, rather late), and prepared herself to go out. Lady Davenant had admitted
in the morning that she was better, and fortunately she had not the complication of being subject
to a medical opinion, having absolutely refused to see a doctor. Her old friend had been obliged
to go out--she had scarcely quitted her before--and Laura had requested the hovering, rustling
lady's-maid to leave her alone: she assured her she was doing beautifully. Laura had no plan
except to leave London that night; she had a moral certainty that Selina had gone to the Continent.
She had always done so whenever she had a chance, and what chance had ever been larger than
the present? The Continent was fearfully vague, but she would deal sharply with Lionel--she
would show him she had a right to knowledge. He would certainly be in town; he would be in
a complacent bustle with his lawyers. She had told him that she didn't believe he had yet gone
to them, but in her heart she believed it perfectly. If he didn't satisfy her she would go
to Lady Ringrose, odious as it would be to her to ask a favour of this depraved creature: unless
indeed Lady Ringrose had joined the little party to France, as on the occasion of Selina's
last journey thither. On her way downstairs she met one of the footmen, of whom she made the
request that he would call her a cab as quickly as possible--she was obliged to go out for
half an hour. He expressed the respectful hope that she was better and she replied that she
was perfectly well--he would please tell her ladyship when she came in. To this the footman
rejoined that her ladyship had come in--she had returned five minutes before and had gone to
her room. 'Miss Frothingham told her you were asleep, Miss,' said the man, 'and her ladyship
said it was a blessing and you were not to be disturbed.'

'Very good, I will see her,' Laura remarked, with dissimulation: 'only please let me have my cab.'

The footman went downstairs and she stood there listening; presently she heard the house-door
close--he had gone out on his errand. Then she descended very softly--she prayed he might not
be long. The door of the drawing-room stood open as she passed it, and she paused before it,
thinking she heard sounds in the lower hall. They appeared to subside and then she found herself
faint--she was terribly impatient for her cab. Partly to sit down till it came (there was a
seat on the landing, but another servant might come up or down and see her), and partly to
look, at the front window, whether it were not coming, she went for a moment into the drawing-room.
She stood at the window, but the footman was slow; then she sank upon a chair--she felt very
weak. Just after she had done so she became aware of steps on the stairs and she got up quickly,
supposing that her messenger had returned, though she had not heard wheels. What she saw was
not the footman she had sent out, but the expansive person of the butler, followed apparently
by a visitor. This functionary ushered the visitor in with the remark that he would call her
ladyship, and before she knew it she was face to face with Mr. Wendover. At the same moment
she heard a cab drive up, while Mr. Wendover instantly closed the door.

'Don't turn me away; do see me--do see me!' he said. 'I asked for Lady Davenant--they told
me she was at home. But it was you I wanted, and I wanted her to help me. I was going away--but
I couldn't. You look very ill--do listen to me! You don't understand--I will explain everything.
Ah, how ill you look!' the young man cried, as the climax of this sudden, soft, distressed
appeal. Laura, for all answer, tried to push past him, but the result of this movement was
that she found herself enclosed in his arms. He stopped her, but she disengaged herself, she
got her hand upon the door. He was leaning against it, so she couldn't open it, and as she
stood there panting she shut her eyes, so as not to see him. 'If you would let me tell you
what I think--I would do anything in the world for you!' he went on.

'Let me go--you persecute me!' the girl cried, pulling at the handle.

'You don't do me justice--you are too cruel!' Mr. Wendover persisted.

'Let me go--let me go!' she only repeated, with her high, quavering, distracted note; and as
he moved a little she got the door open. But he followed her out: would she see him that night?
Where was she going? might he not go with her? would she see him to-morrow?

'Never, never, never!' she flung at him as she hurried away. The butler was on the stairs,
descending from above; so he checked himself, letting her go. Laura passed out of the house
and flew into her cab with extraordinary speed, for Mr. Wendover heard the wheels bear her
away while the servant was saying to him in measured accents that her ladyship would come down
immediately.

Lionel was at home, in Grosvenor Place: she burst into the library and found him playing papa.
Geordie and Ferdy were sporting around him, the presence of Miss Steet had been dispensed with,
and he was holding his younger son by the stomach, horizontally, between his legs, while the
child made little sprawling movements which were apparently intended to represent the act of
swimming. Geordie stood impatient on the brink of the imaginary stream, protesting that it
was his turn now, and as soon as he saw his aunt he rushed at her with the request that she
would take him up in the same fashion. She was struck with the superficiality of their childhood;
they appeared to have no sense that she had been away and no care that she had been ill. But
Lionel made up for this; he greeted her with affectionate jollity, said it was a good job she
had come back, and remarked to the children that they would have great larks now that auntie
was home again. Ferdy asked if she had been with mummy, but didn't wait for an answer, and
she observed that they put no question about their mother and made no further allusion to her
while they remained in the room. She wondered whether their father had enjoined upon them not
to mention her, and reflected that even if he had such a command would not have been efficacious.
It added to the ugliness of Selina's flight that even her children didn't miss her, and to
the dreariness, somehow, to Laura's sense, of the whole situation that one could neither spend
tears on the mother and wife, because she was not worth it, nor sentimentalise about the little
boys, because they didn't inspire it. 'Well, you do look seedy--I'm bound to say that!' Lionel
exclaimed; and he recommended strongly a glass of port, while Ferdy, not seizing this reference,
suggested that daddy should take her by the waistband and teach her to 'strike out.' He represented
himself in the act of drowning, but Laura interrupted this entertainment, when the servant
answered the bell (Lionel having rung for the port), by requesting that the children should
be conveyed to Miss Steet. 'Tell her she must never go away again,' Lionel said to Geordie,
as the butler took him by the hand; but the only touching consequence of this injunction was
that the child piped back to his father, over his shoulder, 'Well, you mustn't either, you know!'

'You must tell me or I'll kill myself--I give you my word!' Laura said to her brother-in-law,
with unnecessary violence, as soon as they had left the room.

'I say, I say,' he rejoined, 'you are a wilful one! What do you want to threaten me for? Don't
you know me well enough to know that ain't the way? That's the tone Selina used to take. Surely
you don't want to begin and imitate her!' She only sat there, looking at him, while he leaned
against the chimney-piece smoking a short cigar. There was a silence, during which she felt
the heat of a certain irrational anger at the thought that a little ignorant, red-faced jockey
should have the luck to be in the right as against her flesh and blood. She considered him
helplessly, with something in her eyes that had never been there before--something that, apparently,
after a moment, made an impression on him. Afterwards, however, she saw very well that it was
not her threat that had moved him, and even at the moment she had a sense, from the way he
looked back at her, that this was in no manner the first time a baffled woman had told him
that she would kill herself. Knowledge is created, and create knowledge. All this is a piece of belarminianas
speculation. What is the attitude prolonged sedentary leisure discourse! ... The philosophers are men squatting,
even peripato, which, if explained walking, squatting built his system. Continues. It follows that if
the dictionary is all that we said, Collins is as good as cosmos. Bellarmine, under the reciprocity
of both of words, and to avoid confusion, the reverse had been set for its use, the use and significance
each of them, and when he said the cosmos, it meant the dictionary, and when he said the dictionary,
I wanted to understand the universe. If asked to give her Sorrows cosmos, the girl, from experience,
and knew he had to deliver this tome, which, for it was so logical that it was called cosmos
as easily be called a dictionary. But - continued belarminiana speculation - and most men live
in the dictionary - is ie in the world - unaware that they live, and also access and read the cosmos
- is say, the dictionary - unaware of what they read. To live is to know and knowing is creating,
give a name. When a man called a tree to a tree because I've heard call it that, that man do
not know the tree does not know what he says if he knew the tree, he had created himself, would
have given a new name. And now comes the most subtle of speculation belarminiana. In the cosmos
- that is, in the dictionary - are the names of all things, but they are misapplied, because
they are applied as usual mechanics and so that, far from causing an act of knowledge and creation,
promote the routine, ignorance, stupidity, garrulous chatter and vulgar speech, vacuum and
memorable. Are the names in the cosmos - is ie in the dictionary - like birds in cages, living or
drugged and hidden in graves with seven seals. Bellarmine was a way of mystical pleasure, a
way of communication absolute direct and intimate perception of the essence of things when the seals
broke burial to be lifting up the living buried, and opened the cages for birds saliesen flying.
Read the words of the cosmos - that is, the dictionary - avoiding, with the most scrupulous,
that the definition rozasen their eyes that they were accompanied. Read one, in rigor, not to read
it, saw it, physically, escaping from the straw folios, walking on the floor, or fly in the
air, or diluted hazily on the roof. Were sometimes beings, others were things other concepts
and ideas, other sensations of the senses, others delicate emotions. Maybe it produced results
that, for a superficial spirit, could seem comical, but in the end, everything was very serious.
Camel said the cosmos - that is, the dictionary -, and Bellarmine saw, in fact, spring from the
page on the quadruped ruminant though much diminished proportions, and slowly walk out on the
floor, but the few steps, the profile of the beast, although it was winding deformations are still
evolving, transformed, the animal was put on two feet, appeared dressed in uniform head without
losing the original expression, taking human traits, the humps became saddlebags hanging to his
chest and back, and one of the bags out a large briefcase. Bellarmine be just a dictionary
to understand - that is, the sensible world - and, knowing, had created a new word. Camel, thereafter,
would mean to him, Minister of the Crown. Camel meant priest or minister of the Lord, after
a process similar evolution. Do not think that in the lexicon belarminiano voices and dromedary
camel involving contumelious or derogatory intent, but on the contrary, admiring implied understanding.
Alluded to the desert of indifference in which they move and the ruler as the priest, sobriety
who practice or have practiced, the leading heavy burden on the shoulders, and Finally, the
hump have symbolized the responsibilities attached to the spine itself dorsal, and that the
ruling is twofold, to God and to men, and the priest simple, only to God. And hence, hump =
responsibility, a new act of creation in the cosmos - that is, in the dictionary - Bellarmine. Different
words produced only sense of physical qualities. But the words that most eagerly sought, which
he transition of enthusiasm in understanding and creating new ones were those that he seemed
to him philosophical terms and, therefore, expressed an intangible concept: metempsychosis,
Scholastic, scurvy., etc. After a revelation not a little difficult to interpret, Belarmino had
defined so those three terms: metempsychosis is the same as intricacies indecipherable unknowable,
das ding an sich of Kant, and comes from psychosis, or intrigues, and sticks, enter, hide, put
in appearances intricacies simple. Scholastic is as follows irrational opinions of others, like
the tail of the irrational is to the body. Scorbutic Pessimism is as good as, and is a raven, bird
dark and ominous. It was a lot man that Bellarmine!

The hovel where philosophized and mended shoes Bellarmine was well below the street level. It descended
from the portal by stone steps. Walls, whitewashed, with greenish capricious arabesques, of
moisture. Light received by a window landscape, with iron bars, which bordered on the inside with
the ceiling and tore off flush with the road, for there got a flood of light ashy compact, as in
the tables represent appearances, and spilled, like a baptism, on the left side of Bellarmine.
Through the window you saw pass the legs of the pedestrians knee
down, making a rhythmic sound on the flagstones.

Bellarmine believed found providentially put in the bowels of the earth, placed in the root and
foundation of things, and that men know it was best to see them nothing but the feet, which
are the basis and foundation of the people. But, deep in this shadowy den, office where it is
distilled and clarified the mysteries of thought and existence, continually astride his mount
around, it was Clavileño and it was Pegasus, exempting Bellarmine of gravity and slavery of matter
flying through space freely fantastic hung in the areas uranium watched the dictionary - ie
the world - from perspectives so remote, that perhaps it made him dizzy and goosebumps. As Belarmino,
although Father Alesón regarded him senseless, it was a very sensible man, he realized the
irreparable harm that threatened him, and was so high that one day astray beyond the clouds
and not I could go to trade and relations with other men. Every time I took off a dead word
and created a living word, it was like throw ballast overboard and acquired new amount of
upward force. "There may come a time when you can not talk to me daughter, because I do not understand
or understand me and to think I'm crazy, "and his heart was suspended. What to do? Point coincided
with the solution. Should retain the ballast, rather than increasing energy tried to follow up,
should strive, at any cost, not to be forgotten vulgar language, so using it with her daughter and with
someone else of his affection, if required. But how to avoid forgetting, if he was almost always
alone? The Intelet whispered something in the skull, and Bellarmine took to the streets, was walking
to the village, and the first village commissioned a magpie who seek him and took the hole.
I had heard that the Magpies, with patience and good wine, they are taught to speak. I would
have preferred a parrot, but had no money and doubted that they were in the market. Arrived a few
days later, the villager with the magpie, white and black as the Dominican Fathers. "Now, to
teach the most vulgar language possible," he said Belarmino, not without some grief and perplexity,
because he was not tempted occurred vulgarities nor wits to invent. Looking wistfully at the
magpie and its glossy plumage Dominican association of images occurred to him that the Father
Alesón could get the rush, and went to ask him to lend him a book of poetry and a speech. Bellarmine
considered poetry and oratory as more vulgar forms of speech. The Dominican lent Selgas a volume
of speeches and a brochure Don Alejandro Pidal y Mon. Bellarmine cut guides to bird wings
and put him in the dark bottom of the barrel. They gave strong white wine soup, and bending
over the barrel would read, separating clearly the words, verses and paragraphs Selgas Pidal.
As some Once Pidal read this sentence: "Jáctome to be scholastic," Belarmino said: "I had
smelt, also claims to be Bellido scorbutic ....» The magpie did not learn to speak, but Belarmino
not impatient and reluctant resignation that bath plenty of vulgarity, more for convenience and
to not let go the ropes with the world, that educational interest to the avechucho. Colignon
began to see, but ignore the cause, which spoke Bellarmine More on Christian, and so he said one
afternoon. Belarmino, taking pains to express themselves in romance Palladian, which was causing
more hassle Apollonius still speak in prose, he said

- For many intentions - intentions = reasons -. First, because I love you. I want to you because
you love me. Second .... Do not know how to tell him not to be gaunt and spare unpleasant pesos
.-- Haggard = violent, cruel, weight = feeling. Bellarmine paused the gleanings of explicit phrases
.-- You are kind of matter, I am the spirit. You look forward to things, and I, away from things.
You are yes, and I no. O if you want, you are not and I said yes. Am I superior to you? Not so.
Neither yes is greater than not, neither is superior to another, but the yes and no are higher
than those me. I understand that you are as a philosopher like me, albeit in a belligerent Belligerent
.-- = Contrary, opposite .-- In contrast, most men are not yes and no, but on what I know, they
do not know, or feel, nor live, nor matter. What do I have with them? Why Why should I speak their
language? You are something else. I wish you understood my language. But as a philosopher
you are belligerent, and I love him, and also instructed me to you
and I use as a touchstone, because you are the not my own, or another
of my no, and We both completed, so it strives to speak for me you
understand me.

- Épatant, épatant, my dear Belarmino - said the confectioner
in glad amazement -.

I understand. I am an Epicurean and Stoic you, is not it?

Bellarmine imprisoned in the pantry of memory the two words: Epicurean and Stoic, to later transmuted
by the alchemy of speculation and to find their true meaning.

One day he appeared in the den of Bellarmine Froilan Escobar, aka Estudiantón and Aligator,
to secure his midsoles shovels and a pair of boots, to become a real pair of boots did not
need, in addition to the blades and midsoles, but reinforcement in the buttress, pieces of cane
and a few buttons. Precisely, the only hobby Bellarmine zapateril art was to restore old shoes,
the older the better, and miserable spoils create a brand new pair. It was a family hobby his
vocation philosophical. And so, welcomed those valetudinarian Alligator boots or with marked
Estudiantón reverence and affection.

Nicknames are, when brief biography, when miniature portrait.

The two nicknames Froilan Escobar story and portrayed. He had been twenty years of attending the University,
and not because he was unfit to pass the courses, it was of considerable
natural clearance.

Said: "The man who wants to meet a student's life until death. Nothing is so disgusting as the
science that is acquired to obtain a degree and earn an income with
it.

There is no science that disinterested science, science for science, the love of knowledge, the
knowledge that you never know enough to charge money for teaching the little we know. "And another
portion of the maximum at the same tenor. Not wanting to buy science, was enrolled, and attended
the classes for free of different faculties. Hence, he dubbed the Estudiantón. Living with extreme
poverty and wore disaster a cap with two fingers of substance; gabancillo brown one with milk,
which was released in coming to the University and wore with the collar turned up, to conceal
the lack of shirt and pants with fringe, and as the usual boots. It resembled the dead color,
as advised by the oracle Zeno, the philosopher, which, properly understood,
it means so much to study books pallor had taken them.

He was able to stay at a nearly superhuman quietism. During school hours kept the same posture sometimes
quiet and attentive, without moving muscle, unblinking eyes clouded by a dull scum of the second
lid mode lizards. And hence nicknamed him Aligator. Sometimes it concerns rushing seizures of
vermin and twists of Sibyl, by subject and explain how the professor, and in such cases took shorthand
notes, fiercely shaking his desk. Students admired him, respected him and would coach him. It
was like the familiar spirit of the university Pallas Athena in that the walled enclosure of
knowledge, one dressed as Athena mask. Also the official science establishment envestía, too
often, costumes of mess.

Could not be submitted to the Estudiantón Belarmino most effective recommendation letter or card
more honorable than that so-called pair of boots, because in fact it was a quarter or an eighth
of boots. Bellarmine rested lovingly in their hands such waste, which he germs or embryos were
a brand new future, and looked at Aligator with tender interest when he suddenly noticed that
either lacked about four cubic feet of breathing air was slightly less than that contained slum;
had entered the Father Alesón, evicting air volume for the volume of flesh and bone.

- Good afternoon, Belarmino - speaking Dominican, modulating the sharper notes and caresses of laryngeal
Piccolo -. Came and went. Came into your room and leave my residence. Out of my distraction and my agreement
entered Alesón .-- Father was now talking in this style conceptualized and wrapped to give the taste
of Bellarmine and win his affection .-- I mean, vulgar language, that I remembered going out
Telesforo Don Rodríguez, Professor the seminar, asked me a book I lent you some time: Nicolai garciae;
tractatus of beneficiis. Have you read it? "I can take it? Because if you have not read yet,
I do not 'll take it. You have to get more out that Don Telesforo, surely.

Bellarmine Clavileño dismounted and handed his Father Alesón a large volume, the fourth largest, aforrado
parchment.

- I've read. It has been very instrumental.

- Well, I'm glad. Hello, hello - said the Dominican, turning at the bottom of the barrel rebullía
and magpie squawked -.

Anguish and has referred me .... So that the verses " of Selgas Pidal and speeches that you have
taken was to teach this memory chattering bird? So what? Will Do learn something?

Belarmino said it had acquired the Picaza to teach him to speak in the only way who understand the
common man. But as Bellarmine, to answer this, did not use language that they understand the
common man, Father begged Alesón explain. Bellarmine did so. The father then felt Alesón understand.

-
Now, now ...-- said the Dominican, smiling banter -. You searched in this magpie Diogenes; 've
created your Diogenes, the cynic, who spoke clearly odious, and that
nothing is missing, you've locked in their coop.

And you, what you are: Socrates, Plato, peripatetic, sophist?

- Stoic - responded with great dignity and pride Belarmino, who suddenly
had revealed the meaning of that word, heard from the lips of Colignon.

Alesón

Father stayed cold. He thought: "To see if this poor man has more than synderesis I suspected.
"goodbye.

- Ea, Bellarmine, against my wishes, I have to leave your company.

That is my mission: to walk, walk from one side to another, with a heavy responsibility on his
shoulders.

And back again the monk, when Bellarmine murmured

- Naturally, as you are a camel ....

Alesón Father turned his face, the expression in question.

- Man, man ...-- stammered, his voice weak -. That is offensive.

I thought that perhaps the Dominican Bellarmine resented him because he had previously spoken
ironically.

- I wanted to say you're a priest - said the shoemaker.

- Well, the
pity.

While camel called me, to me personally, it could happen.

I thought that allude to my size.

But now I happen to be a priest .... dromedary Truth; So Bellarmine, is rude, unbecoming of you.

Bellarmine
commiserations waved resignedly, as if to say: I have to put it in
your mouth spoon.

He explained the well-known allegory of the dromedary and camel,
leaving gaping the monk.

Bellarmine concluded, in their jargon and deprivation.

- I cherish the camels and dromedaries, but not kiss.

Watering the tetrahedron, imprisonment and paraphrasing the tetrahedron, but sartorial and illiteracy
remain the tetrahedron. My schedule Jerky is recreated intuition.

Dominican came out full of bewilderment and concern. Froilan Escobar, the Alligator, no had moved
during the previous scene. He thought he was dreaming. "Is it true? Is it illusion? "- Said itself
-.

"If not for the damning testimony that pair of boots, as mine and so alien to me as horny
growths on my feet, if not for the blatant fact that I comes into contact with objective reality, it
is that what we saw and heard were pipe dreams of my reason numb and dazed. And this happens to
two hundred yards from the University .... And I I have twenty years in the University without
having heard .... This man baffling and unheard Is it a comic? Is it a dark genius, raw, such
as stone diamond hidden within land? Is he crazy? "And the good Estudiantón became a mess.

-
Are you angry, Mr. Belarmino - said to leave - if I come in the afternoon, from time to time, to talk
a while with you?

- I have a great jerky - Bellarmine replied, unmoved.

Escobar did not know what to decide.

That great jerky Bellarmine would have, if Escobar come to visit, what would? Did you receive it,
or dismiss him with short shrift? He tried. Bellarmine received him with clear content and gave him
a long and tole incomprehensible lecture on tolerance and the CAS, tas, tas. The Estudiantón
listened fascinated, without getting anything clean, but with the certain hope of mastering some
day the technicality of this modern philosopher of the portal, or stoic, as he said, without
knowing both in Greece worth Stoic philosopher of the portal.

Escobar continued attending Bellarmine portal and took notes of what he heard. Since Estudiantón
that had, fortunately, begun to hear the synonymy explain to Bellarmine camel and dromedary, he
had no doubt that each of the voices used by the shoemaker contained a fixed representation,
that the voices are succeeded each other with illation grammar and logic, and ultimately, that
this formal illation contained a think tank original. On the advice of Escobar attended Bellarmine
hear many students and even teachers. The judgments and opinions about the stoic disagreed, of course,
the mood is passionate. I know not whether this same vision was in his own eyes; at all events it did not prevent
him from saying suddenly, as he looked at his watch, that I must excuse him, as he had to go
back to the club. He would return in half an hour--or in less. He walked away and I sat there
alone, conscious, in the dark, dismantled, simplified room, in the deep silence that rests
on American towns during the hot season (there was now and then a far cry or a plash in the
water, and at intervals the tinkle of the bells of the horse-cars on the long bridge, slow
in the suffocating night), of the strange influence, half sweet, half sad, that abides in houses
uninhabited or about to become so--in places muffled and bereaved, where the unheeded sofas
and patient belittered tables seem to know (like the disconcerted dogs) that it is the eve
of a journey.

After a while I heard the sound of voices, of steps, the rustle of dresses, and I looked round,
supposing these things to be the sign of the return of Mrs. Nettlepoint and her handmaiden,
bearing the refreshment prepared for her son. What I saw however was two other female forms,
visitors just admitted apparently, who were ushered into the room. They were not announced--the
servant turned her back on them and rambled off to our hostess. They came forward in a wavering,
tentative, unintroduced way--partly, I could see, because the place was dark and partly because
their visit was in its nature experimental, a stretch of confidence. One of the ladies was
stout and the other was slim, and I perceived in a moment that one was talkative and the other
silent. I made out further that one was elderly and the other young and that the fact that
they were so unlike did not prevent their being mother and daughter. Mrs. Nettlepoint reappeared
in a very few minutes, but the interval had sufficed to establish a communication (really copious
for the occasion) between the strangers and the unknown gentleman whom they found in possession,
hat and stick in hand. This was not my doing (for what had I to go upon?) and still less was
it the doing of the person whom I supposed and whom I indeed quickly and definitely learned
to be the daughter. She spoke but once--when her companion informed me that she was going out
to Europe the next day to be married. Then she said, 'Oh, mother!' protestingly, in a tone
which struck me in the darkness as doubly strange, exciting my curiosity to see her face.

It had taken her mother but a moment to come to that and to other things besides, after I had
explained that I myself was waiting for Mrs. Nettlepoint, who would doubtless soon come back.

'Well, she won't know me--I guess she hasn't ever heard much about me,' the good lady said;
'but I have come from Mrs. Allen and I guess that will make it all right. I presume you know
Mrs. Allen?'

I was unacquainted with this influential personage, but I assented vaguely to the proposition.
Mrs. Allen's emissary was good-humoured and familiar, but rather appealing than insistent (she
remarked that if her friend had found time to come in the afternoon--she had so much to do,
being just up for the day, that she couldn't be sure--it would be all right); and somehow even
before she mentioned Merrimac Avenue (they had come all the way from there) my imagination
had associated her with that indefinite social limbo known to the properly-constituted Boston
mind as the South End--a nebulous region which condenses here and there into a pretty face,
in which the daughters are an 'improvement' on the mothers and are sometimes acquainted with
gentlemen resident in more distinguished districts of the New England capital--gentlemen whose
wives and sisters in turn are not acquainted with them.

When at last Mrs. Nettlepoint came in, accompanied by candles and by a tray laden with glasses
of coloured fluid which emitted a cool tinkling, I was in a position to officiate as master
of the ceremonies, to introduce Mrs. Mavis and Miss Grace Mavis, to represent that Mrs. Allen
had recommended them--nay, had urged them--to come that way, informally, and had been prevented
only by the pressure of occupations so characteristic of her (especially when she was up from
Mattapoisett just for a few hours' shopping) from herself calling in the course of the day
to explain who they were and what was the favour they had to ask of Mrs. Nettlepoint. Good-natured
women understand each other even when divided by the line of topographical fashion, and our
hostess had quickly mastered the main facts: Mrs. Allen's visit in the morning in Merrimac
Avenue to talk of Mrs. Amber's great idea, the classes at the public schools in vacation (she
was interested with an equal charity to that of Mrs. Mavis--even in such weather!--in those
of the South End) for games and exercises and music, to keep the poor unoccupied children out
of the streets; then the revelation that it had suddenly been settled almost from one hour
to the other that Grace should sail for Liverpool, Mr. Porterfield at last being ready. He
was taking a little holiday; his mother was with him, they had come over from Paris to see
some of the celebrated old buildings in England, and he had telegraphed to say that if Grace
would start right off they would just finish it up and be married. It often happened that when
things had dragged on that way for years they were all huddled up at the end. Of course in
such a case she, Mrs. Mavis, had had to fly round. Her daughter's passage was taken, but it
seemed too dreadful that she should make her journey all alone, the first time she had ever
been at sea, without any companion or escort. She couldn't go--Mr. Mavis was too sick: she
hadn't even been able to get him off to the seaside.

'Well, Mrs. Nettlepoint is going in that ship,' Mrs. Allen had said; and she had represented
that nothing was simpler than to put the girl in her charge. When Mrs. Mavis had replied that
that was all very well but that she didn't know the lady, Mrs. Allen had declared that that
didn't make a speck of difference, for Mrs. Nettlepoint was kind enough for anything. It was
easy enough to know her, if that was all the trouble. All Mrs. Mavis would have to do would
be to go up to her the next morning when she took her daughter to the ship (she would see her
there on the deck with her party) and tell her what she wanted. Mrs. Nettlepoint had daughters
herself and she would easily understand. Very likely she would even look after Grace a little
on the other side, in such a queer situation, going out alone to the gentleman she was engaged
to; she would just help her to turn round before she was married. Mr. Porterfield seemed to
think they wouldn't wait long, once she was there: they would have it right over at the American
consul's. Mrs. Allen had said it would perhaps be better still to go and see Mrs. Nettlepoint
beforehand, that day, to tell her what they wanted: then they wouldn't seem to spring it on
her just as she was leaving. She herself (Mrs. Allen) would call and say a word for them if
she could save ten minutes before catching her train. If she hadn't come it was because she
hadn't saved her ten minutes; but she had made them feel that they must come all the same.
Mrs. Mavis liked that better, because on the ship in the morning there would be such a confusion.
She didn't think her daughter would be any trouble--conscientiously she didn't. It was just
to have some one to speak to her and not sally forth like a servant-girl going to a situation.

'I see, I am to act as a sort of bridesmaid and to give her away,' said Mrs. Nettlepoint. She
was in fact kind enough for anything and she showed on this occasion that it was easy enough
to know her. There is nothing more tiresome than complications at sea, but she accepted without
a protest the burden of the young lady's dependence and allowed her, as Mrs. Mavis said, to
hook herself on. She evidently had the habit of patience, and her reception of her visitors'
story reminded me afresh (I was reminded of it whenever I returned to my native land) that
my dear compatriots are the people in the world who most freely take mutual accommodation for
granted. They have always had to help themselves, and by a magnanimous extension they confound
helping each other with that. In no country are there fewer forms and more reciprocities.

It was doubtless not singular that the ladies from Merrimac Avenue should not feel that they
were importunate: what was striking was that Mrs. Nettlepoint did not appear to suspect it.
However, she would in any case have thought it inhuman to show that--though I could see that
under the surface she was amused at everything the lady from the South End took for granted.
I know not whether the attitude of the younger visitor added or not to the merit of her good-nature.
Mr. Porterfield's intended took no part in her mother's appeal, scarcely spoke, sat looking
at the Back Bay and the lights on the long bridge. She declined the lemonade and the other
mixtures which, at Mrs. Nettlepoint's request, I offered her, while her mother partook freely
of everything and I reflected (for I as freely consumed the reviving liquid) that Mr. Jasper
had better hurry back if he wished to profit by the refreshment prepared for him.

Was the effect of the young woman's reserve ungracious, or was it only natural that in her
particular situation she should not have a flow of compliment at her command? I noticed that
Mrs. Nettlepoint looked at her often, and certainly though she was undemonstrative Miss Mavis
was interesting. The candle-light enabled me to see that if she was not in the very first flower
of her youth she was still a handsome girl. Her eyes and hair were dark, her face was pale
and she held up her head as if, with its thick braids, it were an appurtenance she was not
ashamed of. If her mother was excellent and common she was not common (not flagrantly so) and
perhaps not excellent. At all events she would not be, in appearance at least, a dreary appendage,
and (in the case of a person 'hooking on') that was always something gained. Is it because
something of a romantic or pathetic interest usually attaches to a good creature who has been
the victim of a 'long engagement' that this young lady made an impression on me from the first--favoured
as I had been so quickly with this glimpse of her history? Certainly she made no positive appeal;
she only held her tongue and smiled, and her smile corrected whatever suggestion might have
forced itself upon me that the spirit was dead--the spirit of that promise of which she found
herself doomed to carry out the letter.

What corrected it less, I must add, was an odd recollection which gathered vividness as I listened
to it--a mental association which the name of Mr. Porterfield had evoked. Surely I had a personal
impression, over-smeared and confused, of the gentleman who was waiting at Liverpool, or who
would be, for Mrs. Nettlepoint's protégée. I had met him, known him, some time, somewhere,
somehow, in Europe. Was he not studying something--very hard--somewhere, probably in Paris,
ten years before, and did he not make extraordinarily neat drawings, linear and architectural?
Didn't he go to a table d'hôte, at two francs twenty-five, in the Rue Bonaparte, which I then
frequented, and didn't he wear spectacles and a Scotch plaid arranged in a manner which seemed
to say, 'I have trustworthy information that that is the way they do it in the Highlands'?
Was he not exemplary and very poor, so that I supposed he had no overcoat and his tartan was
what he slept under at night? Was he not working very hard still, and wouldn't he be in the
natural course, not yet satisfied that he knew enough to launch out? He would be a man of long
preparations--Miss Mavis's white face seemed to speak to one of that. It appeared to me that
if I had been in love with her I should not have needed to lay such a train to marry her. Architecture
was his line and he was a pupil of the École des Beaux Arts. This reminiscence grew so much
more vivid with me that at the end of ten minutes I had a curious sense of knowing--by implication--a
good deal about the young lady.

Even after it was settled that Mrs. Nettlepoint would do everything for her that she could
her mother sat a little, sipping her syrup and telling how 'low' Mr. Mavis had been. At this
period the girl's silence struck me as still more conscious, partly perhaps because she deprecated
her mother's loquacity (she was enough of an 'improvement' to measure that) and partly because
she was too full of pain at the idea of leaving her infirm, her perhaps dying father. I divined
that they were poor and that she would take out a very small purse for her trousseau. Moreover
for Mr. Porterfield to make up the sum his own case would have had to change. If he had enriched
himself by the successful practice of his profession I had not encountered the buildings he
had reared--his reputation had not come to my ears.

Mrs. Nettlepoint notified her new friends that she was a very inactive person at sea: she was
prepared to suffer to the full with Miss Mavis, but she was not prepared to walk with her,
to struggle with her, to accompany her to the table. To this the girl replied that she would
trouble her little, she was sure: she had a belief that she should prove a wretched sailor
and spend the voyage on her back. Her mother scoffed at this picture, prophesying perfect weather
and a lovely time, and I said that if I might be trusted, as a tame old bachelor fairly sea-seasoned,
I should be delighted to give the new member of our party an arm or any other countenance whenever
she should require it. Both the ladies thanked me for this (taking my description only too
literally), and the elder one declared that we were evidently going to be such a sociable group
that it was too bad to have to stay at home. She inquired of Mrs. Nettlepoint if there were
any one else--if she were to be accompanied by some of her family; and when our hostess mentioned
her son--there was a chance of his embarking but (wasn't it absurd?) he had not decided yet,
she rejoined with extraordinary candour--'Oh dear, I do hope he'll go: that would be so pleasant
for Grace.'

Somehow the words made me think of poor Mr. Porterfield's tartan, especially as Jasper Nettlepoint
strolled in again at that moment. His mother instantly challenged him: it was ten o'clock;
had he by chance made up his great mind? Apparently he failed to hear her, being in the first
place surprised at the strange ladies and then struck with the fact that one of them was not
strange. The young man, after a slight hesitation, greeted Miss Mavis with a handshake and
an 'Oh, good evening, how do you do?' He did not utter her name, and I could see that he had
forgotten it; but she immediately pronounced his, availing herself of an American girl's discretion
to introduce him to her mother.

'Well, you might have told me you knew him all this time!' Mrs. Mavis exclaimed. Then smiling
at Mrs. Nettlepoint she added, 'It would have saved me a worry, an acquaintance already begun.'

'Ah, my son's acquaintances----!' Mrs. Nettlepoint murmured.

'Yes, and my daughter's too!' cried Mrs. Mavis, jovially. 'Mrs. Allen didn't tell us you were
going,' she continued, to the young man.

'She would have been clever if she had been able to!' Mrs. Nettlepoint ejaculated.

'Dear mother, I have my telegram,' Jasper remarked, looking at Grace Mavis.

'I know you very little,' the girl said, returning his observation.

'I've danced with you at some ball--for some sufferers by something or other.'

'I think it was an inundation,' she replied, smiling. 'But it was a long time ago--and I haven't
seen you since.'

'I have been in far countries--to my loss. I should have said it was for a big fire.'

'It was at the Horticultural Hall. I didn't remember your name,' said Grace Mavis.

'That is very unkind of you, when I recall vividly that you had a pink dress.'

'Oh, I remember that dress--you looked lovely in it!' Mrs. Mavis broke out. 'You must get another
just like it--on the other side.'

'Yes, your daughter looked charming in it,' said Jasper Nettlepoint. Then he added, to the
girl--'Yet you mentioned my name to your mother.'

'It came back to me--seeing you here. I had no idea this was your home.'

'Well, I confess it isn't, much. Oh, there are some drinks!' Jasper went on, approaching the
tray and its glasses.

'Indeed there are and quite delicious,' Mrs. Mavis declared.

'Won't you have another then?--a pink one, like your daughter's gown.'

'With pleasure, sir. Oh, do see them over,' Mrs. Mavis continued, accepting from the young
man's hand a third tumbler.

'My mother and that gentleman? Surely they can take care of themselves,' said Jasper Nettlepoint.

'But my daughter--she has a claim as an old friend.'

'Jasper, what does your telegram say?' his mother interposed.

He gave no heed to her question: he stood there with his glass in his hand, looking from Mrs.
Mavis to Miss Grace.

'Ah, leave her to me, madam; I'm quite competent,' I said to Mrs. Mavis.

Then the young man looked at me. The next minute he asked of the young lady--'Do you mean you
are going to Europe?'

'Yes, to-morrow; in the same ship as your mother.'

'That's what we've come here for, to see all about it,' said Mrs. Mavis.

'My son, take pity on me and tell me what light your telegram throws,' Mrs. Nettlepoint went on.

'I will, dearest, when I've quenched my thirst.' And Jasper slowly drained his glass.

'Well, you're worse than Gracie,' Mrs. Mavis commented. 'She was first one thing and then the
other--but only about up to three o'clock yesterday.'

'Excuse me--won't you take something?' Jasper inquired of Gracie; who however declined, as
if to make up for her mother's copious consommation. I made privately the reflection that the
two ladies ought to take leave, the question of Mrs. Nettlepoint's goodwill being so satisfactorily
settled and the meeting of the morrow at the ship so near at hand; and I went so far as to
judge that their protracted stay, with their hostess visibly in a fidget, was a sign of a want
of breeding. Miss Grace after all then was not such an improvement on her mother, for she easily
might have taken the initiative of departure, in spite of Mrs. Mavis's imbibing her glass of
syrup in little interspaced sips, as if to make it last as long as possible. I watched the
girl with an increasing curiosity; I could not help asking myself a question or two about her
and even perceiving already (in a dim and general way) that there were some complications in
her position. Was it not a complication that she should have wished to remain long enough to
assuage a certain suspense, to learn whether or no Jasper were going to sail? Had not something
particular passed between them on the occasion or at the period to which they had covertly
alluded, and did she really not know that her mother was bringing her to his mother's, though
she apparently had thought it well not to mention the circumstance? Such things were complications
on the part of a young lady betrothed to that curious cross-barred phantom of a Mr. Porterfield.
But I am bound to add that she gave me no further warrant for suspecting them than by the simple
fact of her encouraging her mother, by her immobility, to linger. Somehow I had a sense that
she knew better. I got up myself to go, but Mrs. Nettlepoint detained me after seeing that
my movement would not be taken as a hint, and I perceived she wished me not to leave my fellow-visitors
on her hands. Jasper complained of the closeness of the room, said that it was not a night
to sit in a room--one ought to be out in the air, under the sky. He denounced the windows that
overlooked the water for not opening upon a balcony or a terrace, until his mother, whom he
had not yet satisfied about his telegram, reminded him that there was a beautiful balcony in
front, with room for a dozen people. She assured him we would go and sit there if it would
please him. In one of the towers (which is complete) contains State
archives, and inside the temple are quite a few beauties of sculpture and some historical curiosities.
From the top of the deck (to 47 met. Above the floor of the temple), dominated by the belfry
or watchtower, it provides one of the most beautiful landscapes of Switzerland.

In the lower part of the city lies the town hall, not far from her Hospital cantonal buildings
but non-art major. Lausanne is notable for its many educational institutions, charities, etc.,
and between the former is worthy of attention the college in academics. It contains about
50,000 volumes in two libraries (One township and the other students), excellent physical cabinet,
the cantonal museum (Well stocked and orderly), normal school, etc. As shown, the picturesque Lausanne,
whose very nice people are distinguished by their morality and kindness, it is well worth the
capital of one of the most prosperous and esteemed states of the Confederation, which can appear
as a model in Europe.

       * * * * *

From Lausanne to Iverdun newly constructed rail plays in four or five small locations or stations without
any interest, but tour amid picturesque countryside and smiling (cutting the forests of Jorat)
which looks very pleasant few hours of way. It is a rugged country by many small hills and gentle
slopes, which determine a sequence llanuritas whimsical and full of vigor valleys, villages
orchards, forest plantations and productive variety, at the bottom of very funny stand the peculiar
style country homes in Switzerland.

Is easy to see that the welfare queen in these fields, to repair the sweet and happy face of peasants,
cleanliness and property of their dresses, the innocent beauty of women, somewhat ruddy robustness
of children, order and play room, and dedication that are cultivated land. And these people, really
simple, have nothing rustic HOWEVER: read, write and calculate, in general, understand their
rights and duties civil and political rights, and have that sense of his personality that comes
from freedom, independent work and the simple and austere practices of the reformed religion.
Within these populations consuming the priest is a brother, a true shepherd, because it does
not dominate or exploit the conscience, is solid instruction, live modestly, without political
aspirations, or a canon or a bishop, is a parent, and as such their interests are in perfect harmony
with those of citizens.

Iverdun delay on the right bank and a small island on the globe, at very short distance the mouth
of the small river on Lake Neuchâtel and the end of a fertile, well cultivated plain. This city
has gained considerable increase a few years here, because of A railway connects it to Lausanne,
Morges and Geneva, which was just flirting with another tour there in direction to Solera Neuchâtel
and Basel. As the creek that forms the Orb is the port of the steamers and sailing or towing boats
plying the lake, movement Iverdun trade is considerable. It is composed of three major city
streets parallel in the main, and is only notable for its structure to the odd shapes and
yellowing of the houses, and a feudal castle flanked on all four corners by towers of severe
aspect.

Iverdun is surrounded by beautiful trees and walks, and so small as it is (with only 3,800 inhabitants)
is distinguished by the possession of a public library, school, hospital, several schools and
houses of education and various charitable institutions and economy. In Switzerland there is no
city, however small, that does not have - as the best tests of civilization, fraternity and
interest in public affairs - these elements: one or more public libraries museum more or less
stocked and orderly, savings, college, many schools, hospital and hospice. In view of this
is easy to understand why the Swiss people is one of the most honest, free and informed they
are known, relatively to the narrowness of their territory full of
obstacles, in much uninhabitable and trapped between mountains in
central Europe.

Iverdun piously preserved the memory of the famous Pestalozzi, founder of the teaching method most
popular primary and fruitful, very poor man (as almost all the major benefactors) whose life
was a series of acts of devotion for the sake of the ignorant and
helpless children.

It was in this humble city where Pestalozzi tried and tested over many years of excellence of
his method, and there still exists a house of education led by one of his disciples.

Iverdun embarked on board a steamer to sail the beautiful lake to Neuchâtel. Its light green waves
are beautiful, but not comparable with those of Geneva. The bank NE or right side is sad and dreary,
and its steep cliffs and high, of stratification limestone, which the waves strike violently,
to reign is almost solitude, because ports are rare and the population sparse. But the OS side aspect
of the bank and the hills and surrounding mountains is picturesque and lively. Tour there Railroad
Neuchâtel whose construction has required many expensive stretches of mine works in the rock, or leveling
between waves of the lake. From the gravelly beaches the terrain rises on inclined planes and
very undulating, entirely covered with vineyards, small and graceful as scattered populations [17]
located on the shore, and then rising in a succession of more or less steep hills and rocky, going
to be confused with the mountains of Jura, which buttresses lowest temper and down to the lake
itself by its deep gullies throwing some streams.

These mountains are look infinitely less majestic than the Alps,
with their smiling rather tiny shapes and varied vegetation.

[17] The most notable is the town of Grandson, belongs to Vaud, which has 1,500 inhabitants.

Lake
Neuchâtel (Neuchâtel-See in German) gives banks to four surrounding counties: Vaud, Neuchâtel,
Bern and Fribourg, measuring 27 kilometers long from south to north,
by 6 width, and contains 242 square kilometers area.

       Its depth is considerable, but does not exceed 150 feet, and is notable
for its frequent and violent storms, quite dangerous for navigation
because they are almost always sudden and ports without shelter.

* * * * *

Before talking about the city of Neuchâtel, one of the most graceful in Switzerland (although almost
all delay on the banks of lakes or rivers, in very picturesque), summarize the most important
ideas related to Canton or State. The territory extends Neuchâtel in lower region about two-thirds
of the western shore, and along the left bank Thiele River, which is the drain of that, covering
a small portion of the bank also neighboring western Lake Biel (Bienne), which is somewhat reduced
reproduction of Neuchâtel. Of the remainder, Canton extends over the three parallel chains of
the Jura, and although it contains some narrow mountain valleys is essentially intermediate. Part
limits to O. with France, S. the canton of Vaud, the N. with Berne and E. has the lake through
respect of the canton of Fribourg. Its greatest length is 43 kilometers, mostly latitude 20, and
contains in its area 7.678 square kilometers. The population of Canton reached in 1860 to 87.847
inhabitants, including about 15,000 other Swiss cantons and over 3,000 foreigners, mostly French.
Equal language and religion (French Reformed) makes Neuchâtel, Vaud and Geneva to form a group of
people completely analogous. In all three fully dominates the radical democratic institutions,
the industry is homogeneous in three of the main branches (manufacture of watches, wine production
and timber cutting) and customs and the character and spirit of the people make them very
similar. In fact could be defined to Geneva, and Neuchâteleses Vaudenses, calling: French serious.
If the reformed religion has inspired them the spirit of personal
independence and belief reasoned and thorough, the Democratic Republic
strengthened in the love of freedom and the horror of formal mentoring.

The

history of the canton of Neuchâtel (Castillo-new, name derived from its feudal origin) is also
similar to that of Geneva and Vaud, as to the Franks, the former kingdom of the second Burgundy,
struggles with the counts of Savoy and the Bernese, etc. By virtue of family links of the former
rulers of Neuchâtel and Valengin, the French house of Orléans-Longueville owned the country
as their own until the early eighteenth century. Extinct then that family, many suitors presented
themselves, and between the people Neuchâtel (since then neither could live without a master)
had the wisdom to choose the most distant, and therefore the less, awesome: King of Prussia,
Frederick I. This dynasty ruled the principality gently to the beginning of this century, which
had to cede to the French Empire. Napoleon, among other skills that had the very famous and
give states and peoples boxes snuff, ordered the country (in 1805) to constitute a heritage
Marshal Berthier. The treaty of 1814 gave him Neuchâtel-Valengin a mixed, making it into the
Confederation Swiss Canton as a State or free, and returning it in its internal government to the king
of Prussia. From that time until 1848 enjoyed a very liberal constitution and beneficial, but the
interest Independence the people crawled Neuchâtel to the general revolution of that year, not without
than before, in 1831, an insurrection had broken out which was suppressed by the Prussians.

The town was given in 48 one or radical democratic constitution, and though the King of Prussia continued
Prince of Neuchâtel calling and asking for their alleged rights (annulled by the same people
that they were granted in 1707) the independence of Canton was effective and had made to be. In
1857 he raised a serious diplomatic issue that threatened war production between Prussia and
Switzerland, but the great powers intervened, France offered its mediation, and though the King
of Prussia retained its empty title of "Prince of Neuchâtel," as others called "kings of Jerusalem,"
the absolute autonomy of Canton, as a federal state, was recognized. The people voted directly by the
Constitution in 1858, and this applies in the country to the satisfaction of its inhabitants.

According
to her the people are sovereign, and governs itself in the business
community and representative system in general Canton, following similar
rules to those of Geneva and Vaud.

All citizens are working for government jobs, are subject to service military and support the
contributions proportional equality. The Constitution abolished ancient royalty of feudal lords,
without prejudice to the landowners and the titles, privileges and aristocratic distinctions.
All citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution guarantees absolute freedom of religion
and worship, the right of petition, association, and free use of weapons facility in Canton,
freedom of the press and individual security, the home, correspondence and property inviolable.

*
* * * *

The canton of Neuchâtel is essentially manufacturer, in terms of their
manufacture is the most valuable in the world, relative to its population
and territory.

       In fact, Canton manufactured at its three main centers, annually,
about 300,000 gold watches, silver, steel, etc., and a very large
number of clocks, timers and other similar instruments and music,
physics and mathematics.

It has also numerous paper mills, cotton fabrics printed, cutlery, iron and copper, lace, gloves
and other items of hosiery. The watchmaking industry alone (introduced in the country in the
seventeenth century) employs nearly 11,000 workers. The small town of Chaux-de-Fonds alone produces
more than 250,000 watches, the rest is made in Le Locle and Neuchâtel.

Immediately after the manufacture of significant value contained in the products of the vineyards (wine
very soft white and estimated) of timber extraction in the extensive forests Mountains (pine, fir,
beech and oak), the very substantial cattle breeding in the prairies natural, and the cultivation
of cereals, fruit trees, etc. Trade was active, and Canton not only
has the navigation of the lakes and good roads, but maintains communications
towards France and other counties by four railroads.

The main centers of Canton, as I mentioned, are: Neuchâtel, the capital, which has about 10.300 inhabitants
- has its focus city where the small aristocratic or conservative party; Chaux-de-Fonds, with 14.500
(beautiful town that is the center of radicalism and the press Active Canton, and holding more
extensive relations with France) and Locle, which has 8.800 inhabitants.

Thus, three locations nomas meet 38% of the cantonal population made produced in greater or lesser
extent in all States manufacturers or vendors, where it is inevitable concentration of large masses
of workers, especially when land are scarce or are in few hands. The height of these three
cities is very different: thus, Neuchâtel on sea level is 480 meters at its highest, while Locle
and Chaux-de-Fonds, located in the mountainous region, are respectively 921 and 1.000 meters
elevation.

Locle mainly manufactures clocks and lace. Chaux-de-Fonds is a city of considerable movement
and that often has been the asylum, as Geneva, the French banned. There constantly hear the sound
of a thousand hammers and everything is active in the workshops and forges. Perhaps their further
progress and rare perfection and promptness depend mainly on manufacturing
the division of labor, brought there to its ultimate consequences.

Each worker works in a single operation, more or less straightforward, so that a pendulum or
clock represents the Contest hundreds of workers. They work in their homes for work, to shop
or bakery own, without neglecting their families and making this contest. Independence as obvious
as personal morality. And HOWEVER of independence and division, as a clock is composed of so many
pieces, it provides solidarity complication or community of interests of all workers. Perhaps
one of these watches is the best demonstration of the profound truth of the harmony of things
and societies, which reconciles and to coexist perfectly the personality of man and social solidarity,
wherever freedom allows and encourages the full action of this law of nature.

In fact, this situation results in Chaux-de-Fonds this remarkable fact: that in any case an
industrial or commercial crisis also affects all employers and workers, making common misfortune,
as in the boom years the benefit is common. Thus capital can not give the bill to pay, or vice versa,
and their relations are of interest legitimate based on free competition and the independence
and dignity of work.

Is this the case to indicate a feature of many of the cantons, or almost all Swiss people, offering
medium to soften the situation of workers in times of crisis. In Switzerland the political organization
has followed the logical and natural movement of the laws preside over the social conglomeration,
- very unlike France and other nations where State, taking it all,
has the district (the reality) a purely fictional administrative,
and the nation a cause rather than an effect.

In Switzerland, the community or district is only the foundation of political society, is society
itself. Districts, enjoy autonomy primitive and natural, have been merged to become stronger, forming
The canton or state, not to limit or abdicate its own vitality. The cantons, after many years
and even centuries of full sovereignty by aligning their interests from the point of view of
nationality, have confederated to strengthen and simplify their relationships, ensuring solidarity
and gain some respect as a power. But in reality the life of citizens Swiss is in the community
district. This is where he feels truly sovereign (in part respective), adhered to the society
for rights, duties and interests, and active member of a fellowship.

The political rights and duties relating to the Confederation are common throughout her without
distinction of home, but the Swiss district in Zurich, Bern or Geneva, but linked to that of Chaux-de-Fonds
for those links, it is really strange to neuchâtelesa community, while not accepting local commitment.
The neighboring community there is much more than the Confederate citizen because the neighbors
are truly a family. Everyone has the duty of the residence ordinary, to serve the district
in a way, constantly contribute to the common fund relief or mutual
insurers.

 'Maternal immorality?'

'You desire your son to have every possible distraction on his voyage, and if you can make
up your mind in the sense I refer to that will make it all right. He will have no responsibility.'

'Heavens, how you analyse! I haven't in the least your passion for making up my mind.'

'Then if you chance it you'll be more immoral still.'

'Your reasoning is strange,' said the poor lady; 'when it was you who tried to put it into
my head yesterday that she had asked him to come.'

'Yes, but in good faith.'

'How do you mean in good faith?'

'Why, as girls of that sort do. Their allowance and measure in such matters is much larger
than that of young ladies who have been, as you say, very well brought up; and yet I am not
sure that on the whole I don't think them the more innocent. Miss Mavis is engaged, and she's
to be married next week, but it's an old, old story, and there's no more romance in it than
if she were going to be photographed. So her usual life goes on, and her usual life consists
(and that of ces demoiselles in general) in having plenty of gentlemen's society. Having it
I mean without having any harm from it.'

'Well, if there is no harm from it what are you talking about and why am I immoral?'

I hesitated, laughing. 'I retract--you are sane and clear. I am sure she thinks there won't
be any harm,' I added. 'That's the great point.'

'The great point?'

'I mean, to be settled.'

'Mercy, we are not trying them! How can we settle it?'

'I mean of course in our minds. There will be nothing more interesting for the next ten days
for our minds to exercise themselves upon.'

'They will get very tired of it,' said Mrs. Nettlepoint.

'No, no, because the interest will increase and the plot will thicken. It can't help it.' She
looked at me as if she thought me slightly Mephistophelean, and I went on--'So she told you
everything in her life was dreary?'

'Not everything but most things. And she didn't tell me so much as I guessed it. She'll tell
me more the next time. She will behave properly now about coming in to see me; I told her she
ought to.'

'I am glad of that,' I said. 'Keep her with you as much as possible.'

'I don't follow you much,' Mrs. Nettlepoint replied, 'but so far as I do I don't think your
remarks are in very good taste.'

'I'm too excited, I lose my head, cold-blooded as you think me. Doesn't she like Mr. Porterfield?'

'Yes, that's the worst of it.'

'The worst of it?'

'He's so good--there's no fault to be found with him. Otherwise she would have thrown it all
up. It has dragged on since she was eighteen: she became engaged to him before he went abroad
to study. It was one of those childish muddles which parents in America might prevent so much
more than they do. The thing is to insist on one's daughter's waiting, on the engagement's
being long; and then after you have got that started to take it on every occasion as little
seriously as possible--to make it die out. You can easily tire it out. However, Mr. Porterfield
has taken it seriously for some years. He has done his part to keep it alive. She says he adores
her.'

'His part? Surely his part would have been to marry her by this time.'

'He has absolutely no money.'

'He ought to have got some, in seven years.'

'So I think she thinks. There are some sorts of poverty that are contemptible. But he has a
little more now. That's why he won't wait any longer. His mother has come out, she has something--a
little--and she is able to help him. She will live with them and bear some of the expenses,
and after her death the son will have what there is.'

'How old is she?' I asked, cynically.

'I haven't the least idea. But it doesn't sound very inspiring. He has not been to America
since he first went out.'

'That's an odd way of adoring her.'

'I made that objection mentally, but I didn't express it to her. She met it indeed a little
by telling me that he had had other chances to marry.'

'That surprises me,' I remarked. 'And did she say that she had had?'

'No, and that's one of the things I thought nice in her; for she must have had. She didn't
try to make out that he had spoiled her life. She has three other sisters and there is very
little money at home. She has tried to make money; she has written little things and painted
little things, but her talent is apparently not in that direction. Her father has had a long
illness and has lost his place--he was in receipt of a salary in connection with some waterworks--and
one of her sisters has lately become a widow, with children and without means. And so as in
fact she never has married any one else, whatever opportunities she may have encountered, she
appears to have just made up her mind to go out to Mr. Porterfield as the least of her evils.
But it isn't very amusing.'

'That only makes it the more honourable. She will go through with it, whatever it costs, rather
than disappoint him after he has waited so long. It is true,' I continued, 'that when a woman
acts from a sense of honour----'

'Well, when she does?' said Mrs. Nettlepoint, for I hesitated perceptibly.

'It is so extravagant a course that some one has to pay for it.'

'You are very impertinent. We all have to pay for each other, all the while; and for each other's
virtues as well as vices.'

'That's precisely why I shall be sorry for Mr. Porterfield when she steps off the ship with
her little bill. I mean with her teeth clenched.'

'Her teeth are not in the least clenched. She is in perfect good-humour.'

'Well, we must try and keep her so,' I said. 'You must take care that Jasper neglects nothing.'

I know not what reflection this innocent pleasantry of mine provoked on the good lady's part;
the upshot of them at all events was to make her say--'Well, I never asked her to come; I'm
very glad of that. It is all their own doing.'

'Their own--you mean Jasper's and hers?'

'No indeed. I mean her mother's and Mrs. Allen's; the girl's too of course. They put themselves
upon us.'

'Oh yes, I can testify to that. Therefore I'm glad too. We should have missed it, I think.'

'How seriously you take it!' Mrs. Nettlepoint exclaimed.

'Ah, wait a few days!' I replied, getting up to leave her.

III

The Patagonia was slow, but she was spacious and comfortable, and there was a kind of motherly
decency in her long, nursing rock and her rustling, old-fashioned gait. It was as if she wished
not to present herself in port with the splashed eagerness of a young creature. We were not
numerous enough to squeeze each other and yet we were not too few to entertain--with that familiarity
and relief which figures and objects acquire on the great bare field of the ocean, beneath
the great bright glass of the sky. I had never liked the sea so much before, indeed I had never
liked it at all; but now I had a revelation of how, in a midsummer mood, it could please. It
was darkly and magnificently blue and imperturbably quiet--save for the great regular swell
of its heart-beats, the pulse of its life, and there grew to be something so agreeable in the
sense of floating there in infinite isolation and leisure that it was a positive satisfaction
the Patagonia was not a racer. One had never thought of the sea as the great place of safety,
but now it came over one that there is no place so safe from the land. When it does not give
you trouble it takes it away--takes away letters and telegrams and newspapers and visits and
duties and efforts, all the complications, all the superfluities and superstitions that we
have stuffed into our terrene life. The simple absence of the post, when the particular conditions
enable you to enjoy the great fact by which it is produced, becomes in itself a kind of bliss,
and the clean stage of the deck shows you a play that amuses, the personal drama of the voyage,
the movement and interaction, in the strong sea-light, of figures that end by representing
something--something moreover of which the interest is never, even in its keenness, too great
to suffer you to go to sleep. I, at any rate, dozed a great deal, lying on my rug with a French
novel, and when I opened my eyes I generally saw Jasper Nettlepoint passing with his mother's
protégée on his arm. Somehow at these moments, between sleeping and waking, I had an inconsequent
sense that they were a part of the French novel. Perhaps this was because I had fallen into
the trick, at the start, of regarding Grace Mavis almost as a married woman, which, as every
one knows, is the necessary status of the heroine of such a work. Every revolution of our engine
at any rate would contribute to the effect of making her one.

In the saloon, at meals, my neighbour on the right was a certain little Mrs. Peck, a very short
and very round person whose head was enveloped in a 'cloud' (a cloud of dirty white wool) and
who promptly let me know that she was going to Europe for the education of her children. I
had already perceived (an hour after we left the dock) that some energetic step was required
in their interest, but as we were not in Europe yet the business could not be said to have
begun. The four little Pecks, in the enjoyment of untrammelled leisure, swarmed about the ship
as if they had been pirates boarding her, and their mother was as powerless to check their
license as if she had been gagged and stowed away in the hold. They were especially to be trusted
to run between the legs of the stewards when these attendants arrived with bowls of soup for
the languid ladies. Their mother was too busy recounting to her fellow-passengers how many
years Miss Mavis had been engaged. In the blank of a marine existence things that are nobody's
business very soon become everybody's, and this was just one of those facts that are propagated
with a mysterious and ridiculous rapidity. The whisper that carries them is very small, in
the great scale of things, of air and space and progress, but it is also very safe, for there
is no compression, no sounding-board, to make speakers responsible. And then repetition at
sea is somehow not repetition; monotony is in the air, the mind is flat and everything recurs--the
bells, the meals, the stewards' faces, the romp of children, the walk, the clothes, the very
shoes and buttons of passengers taking their exercise. These things grow at last so insipid
that, in comparison, revelations as to the personal history of one's companions have a taste,
even when one cares little about the people.

Jasper Nettlepoint sat on my left hand when he was not upstairs seeing that Miss Mavis had
her repast comfortably on deck. His mother's place would have been next mine had she shown
herself, and then that of the young lady under her care. The two ladies, in other words, would
have been between us, Jasper marking the limit of the party on that side. Miss Mavis was present
at luncheon the first day, but dinner passed without her coming in, and when it was half over
Jasper remarked that he would go up and look after her.

'Isn't that young lady coming--the one who was here to lunch?' Mrs. Peck asked of me as he
left the saloon.

'Apparently not. My friend tells me she doesn't like the saloon.'

'You don't mean to say she's sick, do you?'

'Oh no, not in this weather. It is a beast, but I understand.

- Why Diana kill myself ...!

Kill her ....

- My God, you're wild ...!

- No, sir. O Nah, you require or demand a woman, and if gets out, stick. O Nah, you paste, or
it sticks. Nah, you remember what the poor Bellarmine.

- What do I say?

But is that the poor Xuantipa Bellarmine was unfaithful? I ignored.

- You win, you may not lacking.

What I am saying is that, as Bellarmine could not cure his wife,
when held, with syrup ash, there is no better melecina pa the big
women, then, fixed, that his wife had always atosigao him and cure
pa therefore Nah, you know, I gave poultice on the backs each stake
....

- Yeah, I know.

The poor man, my dear friend .... I miss it less, since which is
enshrined there in the asylum who you say maletería; name truly comical.

-
Not maletería; is malatería.

- Is not it the same thing?

- No, sir.

-
So what do you mean malatería?

- Curse if I know.

- That does nothing.

But the beloved Revenga Bellarmine. I can not do without it.

I I come to visit every week or fortnight for ten years, in spite
of this costs abominable that I must climb to get.

He never spoke, he never speaks. Is sweetest of souls, and I argue that a great intelligence.

-
A wimp, stupid, like the other, Apolonio ....

- Shut up, Nolo. You do not understand. Bellarmine is a great man.

And Apollonius, it is also another great man.

I want to show how much they love and admire them. That is why they I have these thick Easter
cakes and thick custard sources, and many dozens thick cakes, like other years, so many of them,
on this day.

- That will eat greedy nuns and other inmates, like other years, this same day.

- Ah, of course! But the cakes are in Belarmino and Apolonio, and they enjoy invite more than
being invited. They've always given everything and have not wanted anything for them. I was
not trying to Apollonius once, only after being in the asylum. Very interesting, very interesting.
It is a curious thing, Apollonius would not treat me Bellarmine. He hates, that is, he thinks
hates him. Very funny. But Bellarmine does care if I try to Apollonius. He disdains, that is,
he believes that he disdains. Spicy situation. I have a need for great tact. But it all is so
extraordinary, so extraordinary .... Belarmino I love most, this is not to say, he is an old friend. But I
love you too Apollonius. Here we are now in the asylum. Remember, the employer can not know that
habemos brought this gift. She would make a great scandal.

Mysterious gravitation Colignon going to Bellarmine.

Is vulgar error to suppose that the force of gravity brings down the bodies. This fall involves the
notion of up and down, and in infinite space there is no up or down, the bodies and souls
sometimes rise and others fall down upwards. The latter is what Epicurean Colignon happening to
that, between gasps and hot flashes, going back regularly costs asylum,
attracted by the ascetic Bellarmine ie falling, no will, going up
to him.

Colignon rather old-looking and, penetrates, with his party at the hall of asylum, an elongated
piece of bare walls, with four helpless straw saddles. Front in front of the door, there is
a bracket on the wall of pine, over it, a statuette, unhappy, San Jose, cardboard, at the foot of
the saint, half a dozen beans, chickpeas and half a dozen a bottle with an olive, dense liquid,
and a label says: Azeite. These holy gifts in kind to indicate that what appears to spare,
is precisely what is lacking in the asylum, so that they know that charitable souls there seldom
fall to meet in a work of mercy, and that their gifts are the most
have been necessary in the poor house.

Tinkling, farther and farther away, a bell, voice cracked and old. Through a door, painted black,
comes an old nun, warning that is skeletal, despite Haldudo faldamento,
mummified the face.

His eyes, bulky and tired, they revive a point to see Mr. Collignon,
running to meet him with outstretched hands.

- Ah!

Felicita Felicita nice.

- Sister of Dolores, Mr. Colignon - corrects the nun.

- True, true. But I can not forget.

- We must forget, and if we can not forget, we seem like we've forgotten - says sister, nun
anointing and emphasis of nostalgia, as implying that, despite everything, has not forgotten.
What had to forget the sad Felicita! Above all, the cooling Colignon memory and disturbs the
chest of the sister of Dolores. These effects occur without French intention or guilt, just because of
their obesity. As viejucos asylees, and Beaton also all who go there to visit are, without exception,
lean people, each Once the sister of Dolores sees a fat man, imagine
having before it the love and Novillo spoiled, and feel again the
old Felicita.

Is now with his eyes obstinately humiliated, not to get in them the image of the abdomen, round and
damn evocative Mr. Collignon.

- But, my God - the newcomer exclaims laughing - which already Nah, you will be very difficult
to forget and hide .... This is a branch of the Rua Ruera other times.

Bellarmine is here, Apolonio is here, the usurer is here, you 're here. I'm only missing, and
I'm here now.

All others who are not coming to the rendez-vous is because they are dead and the eternity of nothingness.

-
Oh! - Sighs sister, without raising his eyes, against all rules of good sigh -. The people here are
also dead and watched the world from the perspective of eternity.

- What an idea! But still eat cakes. Meanwhile we can eat cake, God be blessed .-- Y Colignon laughs
as always with trepidation Glog turkey and stomach. I continued .-- I needed here as beans and peas
and oil.

All the better to eat cakes.

- God will reward you, sir Colignon.

Leave before the sun came out today that you appear Easter with entertainment. The old man,
for eight days, smacking taste in advance, and do not talk about anything but the rich Mr. Colignon
jams. How little is needed to make the happiness of others!

- Well not much, three kilos of flour, three kilos of sugar, three dozen eggs, three two sticks of
cinnamon and vanilla.

But it appears that those who invite the poor little I'm not old, but it is their peers Belarmino
and Apolonio.

- How little is needed for happiness, and how he almost never comes to that little ...!-- says yes
the sister of Dolores, without referring, of course, to the flour, sugar and eggs, since there
was no standing attention in the reply from the French, but was absorbed in their thoughts.
Leaving him, adds: - to leave here these baskets. And will pick them up. Go, Mr. Colignon, to
see their friends, until the time of the refectory. You know the road. Are in the garden, for
sure, waiting with impatience.

Colignon runs hallways, where smells of trash, and leaves the so-called garden a garden without
flowers that some daffodils. It is an expanse of prairie, the prairie, cut by sandy tracks, on
sidewalks, wooden benches, canopy banks, the tops of the acacias.

There are a breath of damp earth. Shines a dim and yellow sun melts forms and turns into a hint
huidera and intangible, it is unknown if dawn or dusk, and noon, a golden vapor blurring the
boundaries and melts things flowing and unit undecided, we do not know if it's memory or hope. Elysian
light.

Each time Mr. Collignon, so carnal and concrete, overlooks the garden, stepping on the edge
is given first the Champs Elysees, inhabited by disembodied images of those who were and are
no longer, of those who left in the solid earth, home of the gentle pleasures, and do not retain
but the appearance of life, and with it the age-old passions, because passions are the soul and
the soul is indestructible. The moist breath of the earth it gets up to Colignon bones, and
experience a deep chill.

But this is just what you like, enter for a few moments in a kind of beyond or world of illusion
and memory, to bask in their curious villagers and certainty that there are also eaten cakes,
and that he, although within that mock the grave, can go as he pleases and return to the delights
of physiological and eventful life.

So Colignon looming in the garden, the old, scattered on either side, come to him, with faltering
steps and labored, as in dreams, when movements are hindrance impeded by heavy and invisible.
One, especially, lingers. Comes with step majestic and indifferent mood, determined to show
no vulgar haste: it is Apollonius. Just another remains in place, far away, sitting on a bench,
having greeted the Colignon with a slight gesture of the hand is Bellarmine. Belarmino and Apolonio
are substantially younger than the rest of the inmates.

A nun, keeper of that herd of decrepit men, walking down one of the paths transverse, and manages
to cross the Apollonius Roncero.

The nun is Sister Lucidia. Nothing old, nor any younger .... On the right side of the face,
taking him from temple to the corner of the lips, and all through the cheek, has - since he was born
- a crimson stain, tentacular profile as a brand new track slap, a blow that, before out to life,
gave him the destination. Lucidia sister always has her head bowed on the right side, as if
he would not like that shame, as if trying to hide or if the other cheek, pale and intact, with
the adversity of the aggressive providence.

That spot, which seems smeared with red grape skins for a lewd hand satyr in delirium bucolic
vintage suggests a tragic love story, intimate and sealed.

The nun must have been pretty, despite the embarrassing spot, and even more so cute, because
of the stain to a passionate spirit and prone to dramatic emotions, such as is that of Apollonius.
Apollonius about the nun, and content with fire, because if any spy not notice, he whispers:

-
Angel Comforter of my soul! I adore you, I love you night and day. Are the pair comfort and sorrow,
brilliance and pale, like the sky. Day and night, oddly, are represented in your beautiful
face. On this side is calm and without reproach, deathly pale, Diana, the night. On the other
side is red and on, like Apollo, fiery life father. Oh terrible fight!

Penile joy or, as I look at the fiery side, and the watchman, and looking at your face, night
and day pass the hours of my life.

- Mr Apolonio, let's couplets. When I talk like he wants to ask me
something, I know experience.

Tell me what happens as God intended.

- Ask something, yes, as always, that we escaped together. Our ages are not, although looks,
disproportionate. Step-sixties, so what?, I'm agile and fiery as a recental. As a living, I'm
already nearing completion of a drama that will make us millionaires as it sounds. We will live in
Madrid, will throw coach. What hair horse likes you more? To me the sorrel flower or rosemary.
Make up your mind, be happy.

One day, when we trust me you will have your drama, terrible tragedy
that I guess, but do not ask yet know, not to violate their conscience
prohibited.

Decide, beautiful Lucidia.

- I think, Mr. Apolonio. But apart from the loophole, which goes for long, you have to ask me
something more immediate. Talk without objection.

- You, divine creature, the soul clairvoyant, soul of Sibyl. You read in my chest. What need do
I have to speak? Spare me the wrong time to have to tell me.

- Or talk you, Mr. Apolonio, or stay with God, I'm not friends with riddles.

- Sea. His desires for me are imperial ukase .-- Apollonius continues talking, self-conscious
and .-- tripping is not vanity, pride is not satanic, it is the truth. What can I do? I am a man
infinitely superior to all charitable living in this holy house to all, do not leave out anyone.
Superior by the family, higher economic status, higher intelligence.

I have received a formal education.

I use goat skin shoes; them to shore. I put on a drama with untold success. I have a weak stomach.

-
The latter superiority is all recognize him.

- A so I'm going. I need to drink sparkling water with meals.

I understand that when we in line at the refectory, I the only one with my bottle of Vichy water
on the arms, all others envy me, and tell you more, I even hate. How would they give for being
sick stomach and Canon have a child to send them money to buy water and other Vichy luxuries and
whims .... I could live with my son, if I wanted. But my son prefers I'm here, taking care of lovely
virgins, as a distinguished guest, but I miss nothing. Well now I'm missing something. The last bottle
of Vichy water has finished me yesterday. The Mother Superior tells me you have not received
my son's money to buy more bottles. I mean forgetting, because my son told me one of his last
letters was to Madrid, to preach in the Royal Chapel, look you right in the Royal Chapel, nothing less.
It would head to think of anything else, is explicable. But how do I go now, today, precisely
Easter Day, the dining hall without my bottle of Vichy water? What others say no, on every one that,
for contempt, not name? What would be the humiliation, mockery, derision? No, no and no, before
death.

- And what I can do, Mr. Apolonio?

- A "going, celestial Lucidia sister .-- Apollonius's voice trembles .-- I wanted to ask permission
I consent to take an empty bottle of Vichy water, and go to fill it with tap water laurels.
Nobody will notice anything or anyone.

- Why not? He agree - the sister responds, smiling placidly.

Sepáranse. Apolonio feels great relief, is a great sorrow has evaporated
off heart. The bottle of mineral water for him - since he assumed
that it is for others - a hierarchical logo, a symbol of superiority.
A sign, perhaps, superiority economic? Of course, but this, to Apollonius,
is secondary. It is essential that the bottle with hydraulic and therapeutic
content, manifests itself in the eyes of all as a sensitive test of
the intrinsic superiority and body of Apollonius. This order of superiority
irrefragable is - he just said boasting - to suffer from a stomach
ailment; although it is certain that enjoys a mouthful of ostrich
and digest volcanic rocks. Apolonio - by something is a playwright
Nativity - assumes that the dilection or preference of the gods some
deadly creatures is evidenced by a stigma or original tare, and that
the real heroes in the tragedy of human life experience and hold when
a, when another disease meat or adolescence, as a mark that distinguishes
the sacred character between plebeyez the choir. Apollonius had chosen
for himself dyspepsia. Would have preferred a bloody stain in the
face, as the sister Lucidia, which is why love and reverence for the
nun. But dyspepsia it is sufficient for their intentions, which are
palpable offer contrast and comparison with Bellarmine. You can now
shut in silence sealed Belarmino and philosophical, suggesting, with
smile on his lips thin and colorless, which is, after all, up and
away all things. Who will believe? Bellarmine digested well. How much
support he has worked head, he who has not been sick to your stomach?

And
Apollonius, with tragic and miserable mood, like a man beloved of
the gods dire is directed toward the group that make up the old Colignon
almost disembodied in around. 'What is she going out for, if not to marry him?'

'Perhaps she is going to see how he looks,' suggested one of the gentlemen.

'He'd look queer--if he knew.'

'Well, I guess he'll know,' said Mrs. Gotch.

'She'd tell him herself--she wouldn't be afraid,' the gentleman went on.

'Well, she might as well kill him. He'll jump overboard.'

'Jump overboard?' cried Mrs. Gotch, as if she hoped then that Mr. Porterfield would be told.

'He has just been waiting for this--for years,' said Mrs. Peck.

'Do you happen to know him?' I inquired.

Mrs. Peck hesitated a moment. 'No, but I know a lady who does. Are you going up?'

I had risen from my place--I had not ordered supper. 'I'm going to take a turn before going
to bed.'

'Well then, you'll see!'

Outside the saloon I hesitated, for Mrs. Peck's admonition made me feel for a moment that if
I ascended to the deck I should have entered in a manner into her little conspiracy. But the
night was so warm and splendid that I had been intending to smoke a cigar in the air before
going below, and I did not see why I should deprive myself of this pleasure in order to seem
not to mind Mrs. Peck. I went up and saw a few figures sitting or moving about in the darkness.
The ocean looked black and small, as it is apt to do at night, and the long mass of the ship,
with its vague dim wings, seemed to take up a great part of it. There were more stars than
one saw on land and the heavens struck one more than ever as larger than the earth. Grace Mavis
and her companion were not, so far as I perceived at first, among the few passengers who were
lingering late, and I was glad, because I hated to hear her talked about in the manner of the
gossips I had left at supper. I wished there had been some way to prevent it, but I could think
of no way but to recommend her privately to change her habits. That would be a very delicate
business, and perhaps it would be better to begin with Jasper, though that would be delicate
too. At any rate one might let him know, in a friendly spirit, to how much remark he exposed
the young lady--leaving this revelation to work its way upon him. Unfortunately I could not
altogether believe that the pair were unconscious of the observation and the opinion of the
passengers. They were not a boy and a girl; they had a certain social perspective in their
eye. I was not very clear as to the details of that behaviour which had made them (according
to the version of my good friends in the saloon) a scandal to the ship, for though I looked
at them a good deal I evidently had not looked at them so continuously and so hungrily as Mrs.
Peck. Nevertheless the probability was that they knew what was thought of them--what naturally
would be--and simply didn't care. That made Miss Mavis out rather cynical and even a little
immodest; and yet, somehow, if she had such qualities I did not dislike her for them. I don't
know what strange, secret excuses I found for her. I presently indeed encountered a need for
them on the spot, for just as I was on the point of going below again, after several restless
turns and (within the limit where smoking was allowed) as many puffs at a cigar as I cared
for, I became aware that a couple of figures were seated behind one of the lifeboats that rested
on the deck. They were so placed as to be visible only to a person going close to the rail
and peering a little sidewise. I don't think I peered, but as I stood a moment beside the rail
my eye was attracted by a dusky object which protruded beyond the boat and which, as I saw
at a second glance, was the tail of a lady's dress. I bent forward an instant, but even then
I saw very little more; that scarcely mattered, however, for I took for granted on the spot
that the persons concealed in so snug a corner were Jasper Nettlepoint and Mr. Porterfield's
intended. Concealed was the word, and I thought it a real pity; there was bad taste in it.
I immediately turned away and the next moment I found myself face to face with the captain
of the ship. I had already had some conversation with him (he had been so good as to invite
me, as he had invited Mrs. Nettlepoint and her son and the young lady travelling with them,
and also Mrs. Peck, to sit at his table) and had observed with pleasure that he had the art,
not universal on the Atlantic liners, of mingling urbanity with seamanship.

'They don't waste much time--your friends in there,' he said, nodding in the direction in which
he had seen me looking.

'Ah well, they haven't much to lose.'

'That's what I mean. I'm told she hasn't.'

I wanted to say something exculpatory but I scarcely knew what note to strike. I could only
look vaguely about me at the starry darkness and the sea that seemed to sleep. 'Well, with
these splendid nights, this perfection of weather, people are beguiled into late hours.'

'Yes. We want a nice little blow,' the captain said.

'A nice little blow?'

'That would clear the decks!'

The captain was rather dry and he went about his business. He had made me uneasy and instead
of going below I walked a few steps more. The other walkers dropped off pair by pair (they
were all men) till at last I was alone. Then, after a little, I quitted the field. Jasper and
his companion were still behind their lifeboat. Personally I greatly preferred good weather,
but as I went down I found myself vaguely wishing, in the interest of I scarcely knew what,
unless of decorum, that we might have half a gale.

Miss Mavis turned out, in sea-phrase, early; for the next morning I saw her come up only a
little while after I had finished my breakfast, a ceremony over which I contrived not to dawdle.
She was alone and Jasper Nettlepoint, by a rare accident, was not on deck to help her. I went
to meet her (she was encumbered as usual with her shawl, her sun-umbrella and a book) and laid
my hands on her chair, placing it near the stern of the ship, where she liked best to be. But
I proposed to her to walk a little before she sat down and she took my arm after I had put
her accessories into the chair. The deck was clear at that hour and the morning light was gay;
one got a sort of exhilarated impression of fair conditions and an absence of hindrance. I
forget what we spoke of first, but it was because I felt these things pleasantly, and not to
torment my companion nor to test her, that I could not help exclaiming cheerfully, after a
moment, as I have mentioned having done the first day, 'Well, we are getting on, we are getting
on!'

'Oh yes, I count every hour.'

'The last days always go quicker,' I said, 'and the last hours----'

'Well, the last hours?' she asked; for I had instinctively checked myself.

'Oh, one is so glad then that it is almost the same as if one had arrived. But we ought to
be grateful when the elements have been so kind to us,' I added. 'I hope you will have enjoyed
the voyage.'

She hesitated a moment, then she said, 'Yes, much more than I expected.'

'Did you think it would be very bad?'

'Horrible, horrible!'

The tone of these words was strange but I had not much time to reflect upon it, for turning
round at that moment I saw Jasper Nettlepoint come towards us. He was separated from us by
the expanse of the white deck and I could not help looking at him from head to foot as he drew
nearer. I know not what rendered me on this occasion particularly sensitive to the impression,
but it seemed to me that I saw him as I had never seen him before--saw him inside and out,
in the intense sea-light, in his personal, his moral totality. It was a quick, vivid revelation;
if it only lasted a moment it had a simplifying, certifying effect. He was intrinsically a
pleasing apparition, with his handsome young face and a certain absence of compromise in his
personal arrangements which, more than any one I have ever seen, he managed to exhibit on shipboard.
He had none of the appearance of wearing out old clothes that usually prevails there, but dressed
straight, as I heard some one say. This gave him a practical, successful air, as of a young
man who would come best out of any predicament. I expected to feel my companion's hand loosen
itself on my arm, as indication that now she must go to him, and was almost surprised she did
not drop me. We stopped as we met and Jasper bade us a friendly good-morning. Of course the
remark was not slow to be made that we had another lovely day, which led him to exclaim, in
the manner of one to whom criticism came easily, 'Yes, but with this sort of thing consider
what one of the others would do!'

'One of the other ships?'

'We should be there now, or at any rate to-morrow.'

'Well then, I'm glad it isn't one of the others,' I said, smiling at the young lady on my arm.
My remark offered her a chance to say something appreciative and gave him one even more; but
neither Jasper nor Grace Mavis took advantage of the opportunity. What they did do, I perceived,
was to look at each other for an instant; after which Miss Mavis turned her eyes silently to
the sea. She made no movement and uttered no word, contriving to give me the sense that she
had all at once become perfectly passive, that she somehow declined responsibility. We remained
standing there with Jasper in front of us, and if the touch of her arm did not suggest that
I should give her up, neither did it intimate that we had better pass on. I had no idea of
giving her up, albeit one of the things that I seemed to discover just then in Jasper's physiognomy
was an imperturbable implication that she was his property. His eye met mine for a moment,
and it was exactly as if he had said to me, 'I know what you think, but I don't care a rap.'
What I really thought was that he was selfish beyond the limits: that was the substance of
my little revelation. Youth is almost always selfish, just as it is almost always conceited,
and, after all, when it is combined with health and good parts, good looks and good spirits,
it has a right to be, and I easily forgive it if it be really youth. Still it is a question
of degree, and what stuck out of Jasper Nettlepoint (if one felt that sort of thing) was that
his egotism had a hardness, his love of his own way an avidity. These elements were jaunty
and prosperous, they were accustomed to triumph. He was fond, very fond, of women; they were
necessary to him and that was in his type; but he was not in the least in love with Grace Mavis.
Among the reflections I quickly made this was the one that was most to the point. There was
a degree of awkwardness, after a minute, in the way we were planted there, though the apprehension
of it was doubtless not in the least with him.

'How is your mother this morning?' I asked.

'You had better go down and see.'

'Not till Miss Mavis is tired of me.'

She said nothing to this and I made her walk again. For some minutes she remained silent; then,
rather unexpectedly, she began: 'I've seen you talking to that lady who sits at our table--the
one who has so many children.'

'Mrs. Peck? Oh yes, I have talked with her.'

'Do you know her very well?'

'Only as one knows people at sea. An acquaintance makes itself. It doesn't mean very much.'

'She doesn't speak to me--she might if she wanted.'

'That's just what she says of you--that you might speak to her.'

'Oh, if she's waiting for that----!' said my companion, with a laugh. Then she added--'She
lives in our street, nearly opposite.'

'Precisely. That's the reason why she thinks you might speak; she has seen you so often and
seems to know so much about you.'

'What does she know about me?'

'Ah, you must ask her--I can't tell you!'

'I don't care what she knows,' said my young lady. After a moment she went on--'She must have
seen that I'm not very sociable.' And then--'What are you laughing at?'

My laughter was for an instant irrepressible--there was something so droll in the way she had
said that.

'Well, you are not sociable and yet you are. Mrs. Peck is, at any rate, and thought that ought
to make it easy for you to enter into conversation with her.'

'Oh, I don't care for her conversation--I know what it amounts to.' I made no rejoinder--I
scarcely knew what rejoinder to make--and the girl went on, 'I know what she thinks and I know
what she says.' Still I was silent, but the next moment I saw that my delicacy had been wasted,
for Miss Mavis asked, 'Does she make out that she knows Mr. Porterfield?'

'No, she only says that she knows a lady who knows him.'

'Yes, I know--Mrs. Jeremie. Mrs. Jeremie's an idiot!' I was not in a position to controvert
this, and presently my young lady said she would sit down. I left her in her chair--I saw that
she preferred it--and wandered to a distance. A few minutes later I met Jasper again, and he
stopped of his own accord and said to me--

'We shall be in about six in the evening, on the eleventh day--they promise it.'

'If nothing happens, of course.'

'Well, what's going to happen?'

'That's just what I'm wondering!' And I turned away and went below with the foolish but innocent
satisfaction of thinking that I had mystified him.

IV

'I don't know what to do, and you must help me,' Mrs. Nettlepoint said to me that evening,
as soon as I went in to see her.

'I'll do what I can--but what's the matter?'

'She has been crying here and going on--she has quite upset me.'

'Crying? She doesn't look like that.'

'Exactly, and that's what startled me. She came in to see me this afternoon, as she has done
before, and we talked about the weather and the run of the ship and the manners of the stewardess
and little commonplaces like that, and then suddenly, in the midst of it, as she sat there,
à propos of nothing, she burst into tears. I asked her what ailed her and tried to comfort
her, but she didn't explain; she only said it was nothing, the effect of the sea, of leaving
home. I asked her if it had anything to do with her prospects, with her marriage; whether she
found as that drew near that her heart was not in it; I told her that she mustn't be nervous,
that I could enter into that--in short I said what I could. All that she replied was that she
was nervous, very nervous, but that it was already over; and then she jumped up and kissed
me and went away. Does she look as if she had been crying?' Mrs. Nettlepoint asked.

'How can I tell, when she never quits that horrid veil? It's as if she were ashamed to show
her face.'

'She's keeping it for Liverpool. But I don't like such incidents,' said Mrs. Nettlepoint. 'I
shall go upstairs.'

'And is that where you want me to help you?'

'Oh, your arm and that sort of thing, yes. But something more. I feel as if something were
going to happen.'

'That's exactly what I said to Jasper this morning.'

'And what did he say?'

'He only looked innocent, as if he thought I meant a fog or a storm.'

'Heaven forbid--it isn't that! I shall never be good-natured again,' Mrs. Nettlepoint went
on; 'never have a girl put upon me that way. You always pay for it, there are always tiresome
complications. What I am afraid of is after we get there. She'll throw up her engagement; there
will be dreadful scenes; I shall be mixed up with them and have to look after her and keep
her with me. I shall have to stay there with her till she can be sent back, or even take her
up to London. Voyez-vous ça?'

I listened respectfully to this and then I said: 'You are afraid of your son.'

'Afraid of him?'

'There are things you might say to him--and with your manner; because you have one when you
choose.'

'Very likely, but what is my manner to his? Besides, I have said everything to him. That is
I have said the great thing, that he is making her immensely talked about.'

'And of course in answer to that he has asked you how you know, and you have told him I have
told you.'

'I had to; and he says it's none of your business.'

'I wish he would say that to my face.'

'He'll do so perfectly, if you give him a chance. That's where you can help me. Quarrel with
him--he's rather good at a quarrel, and that will divert him and draw him off.'

'Then I'm ready to discuss the matter with him for the rest of the voyage.'

'Very well; I count on you. But he'll ask you, as he asks me, what the deuce you want him to do.'

'To go to bed,' I replied, laughing.

'Oh, it isn't a joke.'

'That's exactly what I told you at first.'

'Yes, but don't exult; I hate people who exult. Jasper wants to know why he should mind her
being talked about if she doesn't mind it herself.'

'I'll tell him why,' I replied; and Mrs. Nettlepoint said she should be exceedingly obliged
to me and repeated that she would come upstairs.

I looked for Jasper above that same evening, but circumstances did not favour my quest. I found
him--that is I discovered that he was again ensconced behind the lifeboat with Miss Mavis;
but there was a needless violence in breaking into their communion, and I put off our interview
till the next day. Then I took the first opportunity, at breakfast, to make sure of it. He
was in the saloon when I went in and was preparing to leave the table; but I stopped him and
asked if he would give me a quarter of an hour on deck a little later--there was something
particular I wanted to say to him. He said, 'Oh yes, if you like,' with just a visible surprise,
but no look of an uncomfortable consciousness. When I had finished my breakfast I found him
smoking on the forward-deck and I immediately began: 'I am going to say something that you
won't at all like; to ask you a question that you will think impertinent.'

'Impertinent? that's bad.'

'I am a good deal older than you and I am a friend--of many years--of your mother. There's
nothing I like less than to be meddlesome, but I think these things give me a certain right--a
sort of privilege. For the rest, my inquiry will speak for itself.'

'Why so many preliminaries?' the young man asked, smiling.

We looked into each other's eyes a moment. What indeed was his mother's manner--her best manner--compared
with his? 'Are you prepared to be responsible?'

'To you?'

'Dear no--to the young lady herself. I am speaking of course of Miss Mavis.'

'Ah yes, my mother tells me you have her greatly on your mind.'

'So has your mother herself--now.'

'She is so good as to say so--to oblige you.'

'She would oblige me a great deal more by reassuring me. I am aware that you know I have told
her that Miss Mavis is greatly talked about.'

'Yes, but what on earth does it matter?'

'It matters as a sign.'

'A sign of what?'

'That she is in a false position.'

Jasper puffed his cigar, with his eyes on the horizon. 'I don't know whether it's your business,
what you are attempting to discuss; but it really appears to me it is none of mine. What have
I to do with the tattle with which a pack of old women console themselves for not being sea-sick?'

'Do you call it tattle that Miss Mavis is in love with you?'

'Drivelling.'

'Then you are very ungrateful. The tattle of a pack of old women has this importance, that
she suspects or knows that it exists, and that nice girls are for the most part very sensitive
to that sort of thing. To be prepared not to heed it in this case she must have a reason, and
the reason must be the one I have taken the liberty to call your attention to.'

'In love with me in six days, just like that?' said Jasper, smoking.

'There is no accounting for tastes, and six days at sea are equivalent to sixty on land. I
don't want to make you too proud. Of course if you recognise your responsibility it's all right
and I have nothing to say.'

'I don't see what you mean,' Jasper went on.

'Surely you ought to have thought of that by this time. She's engaged to be married and the
gentleman she is engaged to is to meet her at Liverpool. The whole ship knows it (I didn't
tell them!) and the whole ship is watching her. It's impertinent if you like, just as I am,
but we make a little world here together and we can't blink its conditions. What I ask you
is whether you are prepared to allow her to give up the gentleman I have just mentioned for
your sake.'

'For my sake?'

'To marry her if she breaks with him.'

Jasper turned his eyes from the horizon to my own, and I found a strange expression in them.
'Has Miss Mavis commissioned you to make this inquiry?'

'Never in the world.'

'Well then, I don't understand it.'

'It isn't from another I make it. Let it come from yourself--to yourself.'

'Lord, you must think I lead myself a life! That's a question the young lady may put to me
any moment that it pleases her.'

'Let me then express the hope that she will. But what will you answer?'

'My dear sir, it seems to me that in spite of all the titles you have enumerated you have no
reason to expect I will tell you.' He turned away and I exclaimed, sincerely, 'Poor girl!'
At this he faced me again and, looking at me from head to foot, demanded: 'What is it you want
me to do?'

'I told your mother that you ought to go to bed.'

'You had better do that yourself!'

This time he walked off, and I reflected rather dolefully that the only clear result of my
experiment would probably have been to make it vivid to him that she was in love with him.
Mrs. Nettlepoint came up as she had announced, but the day was half over: it was nearly three
o'clock. She was accompanied by her son, who established her on deck, arranged her chair and
her shawls, saw that she was protected from sun and wind, and for an hour was very properly
attentive. While this went on Grace Mavis was not visible, nor did she reappear during the
whole afternoon. I had not observed that she had as yet been absent from the deck for so long
a period. Jasper went away, but he came back at intervals to see how his mother got on, and
when she asked him where Miss Mavis was he said he had not the least idea. I sat with Mrs.
Nettlepoint at her particular request: she told me she knew that if I left her Mrs. Peck and
Mrs. Gotch would come to speak to her. She was flurried and fatigued at having to make an effort,
and I think that Grace Mavis's choosing this occasion for retirement suggested to her a little
that she had been made a fool of. She remarked that the girl's not being there showed her complete
want of breeding and that she was really very good to have put herself out for her so; she
was a common creature and that was the end of it. I could see that Mrs. Nettlepoint's advent
quickened the speculative activity of the other ladies; they watched her from the opposite
side of the deck, keeping their eyes fixed on her very much as the man at the wheel kept his
on the course of the ship. Mrs. Peck plainly meditated an approach, and it was from this danger
that Mrs. Nettlepoint averted her face.

'It's just as we said,' she remarked to me as we sat there. 'It is like the bucket in the well.
When I come up that girl goes down.'

'Yes, but you've succeeded, since Jasper remains here.'

'Remains? I don't see him.'

'He comes and goes--it's the same thing.'

'He goes more than he comes. But n'en parlons plus; I haven't gained anything. I don't admire
the sea at all--what is it but a magnified water-tank? I shan't come up again.'

'I have an idea she'll stay in her cabin now,' I said. 'She tells me she has one to herself.'
Mrs. Nettlepoint replied that she might do as she liked, and I repeated to her the little conversation
I had had with Jasper.

She listened with interest, but 'Marry her? mercy!' she exclaimed. 'I like the manner in which
you give my son away.'

'You wouldn't accept that.'

'Never in the world.'

'Then I don't understand your position.'

'Good heavens, I have none! It isn't a position to be bored to death.'

'You wouldn't accept it even in the case I put to him--that of her believing she had been encouraged
to throw over poor Porterfield?'

'Not even--not even. Who knows what she believes?'

'Then you do exactly what I said you would--you show me a fine example of maternal immorality.'

'Maternal fiddlesticks! It was she began it.'

'Then why did you come up to-day?'

'To keep you quiet.'

Mrs. Nettlepoint's dinner was served on deck, but I went into the saloon. Jasper was there
but not Grace Mavis, as I had half expected. I asked him what had become of her, if she were
ill (he must have thought I had an ignoble pertinacity), and he replied that he knew nothing
whatever about her. Mrs. Peck talked to me about Mrs. Nettlepoint and said it had been a great
interest to her to see her; only it was a pity she didn't seem more sociable. To this I replied
that she had to beg to be excused--she was not well.

'You don't mean to say she's sick, on this pond?'

'No, she's unwell in another way.'

'I guess I know the way!' Mrs. Peck laughed. And then she added, 'I suppose she came up to
look after her charge.'

'Her charge?'

'Why, Miss Mavis. We've talked enough about that.'

'Quite enough. I don't know what that had to do with it. Miss Mavis hasn't been there to-day.'

'Oh, it goes on all the same.'

'It goes on?'

'Well, it's too late.'

'Too late?'

'Well, you'll see. There'll be a row.'

This was not comforting, but I did not repeat it above. Mrs. Nettlepoint returned early to
her cabin, professing herself much tired. I know not what 'went on,' but Grace Mavis continued
not to show. I went in late, to bid Mrs. Nettlepoint good-night, and learned from her that
the girl had not been to her. She had sent the stewardess to her room for news, to see if she
were ill and needed assistance, and the stewardess came back with the information that she
was not there. I went above after this; the night was not quite so fair and the deck was almost
empty. In a moment Jasper Nettlepoint and our young lady moved past me together. 'I hope you
are better!' I called after her; and she replied, over her shoulder--

'Oh, yes, I had a headache; but the air now does me good!'

I went down again--I was the only person there but they, and I wished to not appear to be watching
them--and returning to Mrs. Nettlepoint's room found (her door was open into the little passage)
that she was still sitting up.

'She's all right!' I said. 'She's on the deck with Jasper.'

The old lady looked up at me from her book. 'I didn't know you called that all right.'

'Well, it's better than something else.'

'Something else?'

'Something I was a little afraid of.' Mrs. Nettlepoint continued to look at me; she asked me
what that was. 'I'll tell you when we are ashore,' I said.

The next day I went to see her, at the usual hour of my morning visit, and found her in considerable
agitation. 'The scenes have begun,' she said; 'you know I told you I shouldn't get through
without them! You made me nervous last night--I haven't the least idea what you meant; but
you made me nervous. She came in to see me an hour ago, and I had the courage to say to her,
"I don't know why I shouldn't tell you frankly that I have been scolding my son about you."
Of course she asked me what I meant by that, and I said--"It seems to me he drags you about
the ship too much, for a girl in your position. He has the air of not remembering that you
belong to some one else. There is a kind of want of taste and even of want of respect in it."
That produced an explosion; she became very violent.'

'Do you mean angry?'

'Not exactly angry, but very hot and excited--at my presuming to think her relations with my
son were not the simplest in the world. I might scold him as much as I liked--that was between
ourselves; but she didn't see why I should tell her that I had done so. Did I think she allowed
him to treat her with disrespect? That idea was not very complimentary to her! He had treated
her better and been kinder to her than most other people--there were very few on the ship that
hadn't been insulting. She should be glad enough when she got off it, to her own people, to
some one whom no one would have a right to say anything about. What was there in her position
that was not perfectly natural? What was the idea of making a fuss about her position? Did
I mean that she took it too easily--that she didn't think as much as she ought about Mr. Porterfield? Biel length does not exceed 14 kilometers per 3-1/2 latitude, with 434 meters height
above sea level and 70 deep. Smiling for the color of its waters and picturesque appearance
of its banks lined with vineyards, in whose depths are highlighted, as suburbs capricious in some
localities, several groups of beautiful country houses, the lake is HOWEVER severe and majestic
in the lower region of the basin, by the magnificent semicircle sharp as a huge, colossal rampart,
forming the mountains of Jura S.-O. to N.-O. Lake Morat (or Murten-See), separate from Neuchâtel
scarcely a mountain and some rolling plains, measures just 7.795 meters long, 3.186 Latitude,
52 depth about 23 kilometers in circumference. It is riparian only the cantons of Fribourg
and Vaud. By covering his eyes all the three lakes, one can not but notice the intimate fraternity
that refers to a system. Such is the nature of more lakes first and second order found in Switzerland.
Some breed to another, multiplying life and the wonders of nature. No wonder that the Swiss
people imitate their institutions and customs, the variety and the brotherhood of nature. Here everything
is different, HOWEVER and everything harmonizes and bound as admirable groups in the Alps and
the exquisite game of hydrography.

It is on the right bank of Lake Morat ú East which takes the village
or small town same name (about 1.800 inhabitants), built on a hill
top.

The riparian is lower or industrial and commercial. The high is a curious and original the streets
of massive arches, dark and heavy, old frame houses, semi-feudal and sources of secular history,
similar to those of Neuchâtel. Morat is of ancient origin and closely linked to heroic traditions,
and renowned for the famous battle won in its vicinity, in June 1476, the Confederates Berne, Fribourg,
Basel and other counties, against strong army of Charles the Bold, - battle that secured the independence
of these peoples respect of the Dukes of Burgundy. A stone column erected in 1822 by the republic
Fribourg enshrined in the very center of his field the memory of that battle, so fruitful
results for the Swiss.

Morat is the center of the minority of reformers who are in the canton of Fribourg. The night
covered with vague shadows of the landscape (because the moon was
obscured by thick clouds) when we passed that region, where the coach
rolled down between dense beech forests and grasslands and crops.

Good job cost us to make us open a hotel in Freiburg, at ten o'clock at night, when we got to the
coach. In that city, where the Jesuits and the friars have been printed deep track, everything is in customs
and in the buildings of the feudal type and monks. It works and sleeps very little, and every
detail of life is the seal of the ancient and the authority of habit.

- The city of Freiburg, which is the 8 of the Confederation, for its population and territorial
extension, now has more than 106,000 inhabitants [18], and its area contains 1.435 square kilometers.
His territory, whose length is S.-E. the N.-O., is contained between
Bern and Vaud and divided into three very unequal parts.

The main mass of continuous area, is cut in the middle by the beautiful little river Sarina, almost
from end to end, and boots from the spurs or rough terraces of the Bernese Alps. The other parts,
very small crosses the vaudense territory, and one of them is also riparian Lake Neuchâtel. Except
for the mountainous region that extends towards the Bernese Oberland, the territory Freiburg (whose
basin of Sarina is going to be confused with that of the Aar) is composed of plains wavy and
choppy, narrow valleys and a complicated succession of low hills gay populated and dense forests
(pine, fir, beech, etc.) and covered inclines natural meadows and fields. It is a wonderfully
picturesque country, where all the grandeur mountain regions is replaced by the grace of the undulations
and beauty an intermediate soft vegetation.

[18] In 1851 he was 99.801, of which 87.753 were Roman Catholics and other reforms or Calvinists.

The Sarina and Broyer, major rivers, are only navigable by small boats, rafts and canoes. Transit
trade is considerable, not lacking in some establishments Canton
industrial (mills, wood sawmills, breweries and tanneries) and is
notable production Straw Hat Indian or Italian, very elegant and light.

However, the Canton is mainly agriculture. Apart from the cultivation of grains, legumes, snuff,
fruits and plants filamentous and cutting wood, the main wealth is
in the vineyards, the offspring of cattle (very good quality) and
the manufacturing of excellent and famous Gruyères cheese and other
classes.

Fribourg population consists of two races, more or less mixed, which use the two respective languages,
but degenerate. French is the official language, but speaking people in the family use is as vicious as
the German. Actually any language completely dominates, as the German dialect called welsch
prevails in the cities of Freiburg and Morat and its countryside and districts, while the French
dialect called Romansch is the rest of the population, particularly
in cities and towns.

As to the races although its origin is debatable, as with all European races, the Latin or Franco-Swiss
(75 p. 100) and Germanic (25 p. 100) are meeting there, but they fraternize and have mixed so much
that, although the city of Freiburg is that demarcates the geography of two races in Switzerland,
in a line that rotates from the mountains of Graubünden until the Bernese Jura is very difficult
to determine the area on the end of races that populate the cantons of Ticino, Valles, Vaud,
Geneva, Neuchâtel, Fribourg and part of the Grisons and Bernese and occupying the other cantons
of the Confederation.

* * * * *

You could say that the whole history of the canton of Fribourg (Villa-free) is, as the Geneva,
concentrated in the capital. The times of the Romans and Barbarians have left in traditions of the
country but dark or sad.

       It was in the twelfth century, under the higher authority Empire
of the Franks, which was submitted to the country as part of Burgundy
trasjurásica, Dukes of Zaehringen resolved to create a system of free
cities that resist ambition and the depredations of the robbers called
feudal nobles.

To this end Freiburg was founded in 1179, with special privileges of a free city, but feudatory
of empire, as its name indicates, under a constitution similar to that of Cologne. The powerful
Bern was born in the same aspiration, being noted the similarity of position Fribourg and Berne,
both occupy impregnable peninsulas formed by deep rivers and equipped strong strategic defenses.

Up to half of the fifteenth century was dominated first by Freiburg founders and then by Germanic
empire, successor of the Franks, and especially by the House of Habsburg. That figured in the
wars against Bern and the Swiss Confederates. That house returned their freedom, but soon fell
Freiburg, insolvent, in the hands of the Counts of Savoy creditors. The war waged by Charles
the Bold led to Freiburg aliase with the Swiss patriots and regained its independence with the
victory of Morat.

In 1481, enlarged with several acquisitions, came to appear as Canton of the Confederation, and
later enlarged its territory at the expense of neighbors, local achievements through agreements
or friendly.

Completely dominated the aristocratic regime in Freiburg until 1798, when the intervention French
favored the democratic revolution. European coalition in 1814 restored the status above, but the revolutions
of 1831 and 1847 (especially the latter) secured the victory of the democratic republic. However,
should not be taken to the letter this qualification, because There is enough difference between
liberalism or democracy on Freiburg and radicalism Geneva, Vaud,
Neuchâtel, etc. The aristocratic party has made vain efforts to recover
power, it is true, and Canton, which until 1847 had been one of the
most backward of Confederation (like Lucerne, which still dominated
the Jesuits), is today one of the forces liberalism.

Popular government is representative and the authorities operate independently, although Judicial
Executive Legislative Council emanate from the Great. This formula gives rise to any authority
and election of the legislature (the only direct representation) is so general in Switzerland is found
in almost all counties, even those that differ in their basic institutions of another kind. In Freiburg
the life of the law is very considerable periods. The most important liberties, legal equality,
personal security, are guaranteed to citizens.

Despite the twelve years that have passed already since it opened the liberal regime, the city
Freiburg I found one of the less developed central and western Switzerland, particularly with regard
to public instruction and industry. Most of the Confederation remains still privileged industrial
associations or corporations, and this contrasts sharply with political freedom and the entrepreneurial
genius of the Swiss. But where this evil has been linked with that of ignorance or a vicious
education, maintained by aristocratic institutions and monasteries, as has happened in Freiburg,
the social face, sad, sleepy, contrasts much with the smiling face
of nature.

The long domination that the Jesuits exerted in Freiburg until 1847 or 48, far from spreading
instruction in the people concentrated in a narrow circle, entertained the masses in most
deplorable ignorance, and only served to keep the ideas auje case series the aristocratic spirit,
the routine at all, the cult of superficial religion, monopoly light, and especially the wealth.
Freiburg is it (relatively) the city that has had more monasteries (16 or 17), and is almost the
only one where I found beggars and people idle, filth, neglect and
too little entrepreneurship.

Could it be that the monastic institutions carry as consequences enforced, begging habits, laziness,
routine humiliation and the stagnation of the free and lofty aspirations?

Among the institutions of Freiburg is a very curious that I have not found in any other nation Europe:
The law requires every home or building owner to insure against fire and other accidents, and
the cantonal government is the insurer that speculates on the monopoly the company. That institution,
which, properly understood, extend and apply the otherwise fertile (Because at heart there is a
great idea), as it exists in Freiburg is nothing but a monopoly socialism socialist and the worst possible.
For the rest, the incomes of Canton, which balance with expenses
reached about 90.000 pesos per year, due to customs (as in Switzerland
Each canton has their own), cantonal goods, indirect taxes and on
drinks, stamps, postal and tolls, and the monopoly of salt and gunpowder.

Among all this amount not invested 2,000 pesos in favor of public instruction, which is under the
direction authority! But in compensation for the Canton, who are poor, ignorant and backward,
is the advantage that you sing matins responses and 325 secular priests and 450 monks and nuns
in 17 monasteries .... The numeral is not so small to 106.000 inhabitants, occupy only an area of
​​1.400 square kilometers.

Fortunately, after 1847, he has worked on the roads, but not great scale, and the railway that
is being concluded in Lausanne to Berne, to Freiburg - work a Franco-Swiss company - developed
significantly Canton wealth and prosperity.

* * * * *

The picture of Freiburg, viewed from the opposite side of Sarina, the route that leads towards
Bern, is remarkably picturesque and funny.

They need double under mountains and lakes that gives them their principal interest to Geneva,
Neuchâtel and other cities. Charm it's all in the situation, the relief, contours own appearance.
I will pause to describe Freiburg because few cities to offer such
a strange contrast as that between general forms and its interior
features.

       Located at 628 meters above sea level and 60 to 90 on the bottom
of the valley of Sarina, the city occupies the undulating plateau
of a hill that semi-circle surrounded by more than its beautiful river,
has, for its huge steep ravines, the air of a great strength.

In the same plain the terrain rises towards the -O NN. in other hills, producing a significant
demarcation in the city, in terms in many places the streets that link the two Uptown (the
Bourg or the Village and Squares or flats) are nothing but outstanding stairs, narrow and more
strange looking.

But the city, feeling the attraction of the river and its valley has shed its somewhat extravagant
buildings and streets on one flank of the hill Peninsular and sliding down and through a neighborhood
suspended over the abyss, almost air, in which each house looks like a relief of limestone rock -
the district Auge - Freiburg has come at last seated on his rock, his head high in the hills,
to set a foot on Sarina beaches, creating the modern suburb and the industry, - the Villanueva.
Therefore communication between the districts and low, between the top and bottom of the abyss,
no occurs only in one way, extremely curious, then describe.

From the site I mentioned as the best to see to Freiburg, admiring a landscape charming. In
front stands the mass of the city, with no prospect of streets, because buildings are as crowded
on the edge of the ravine, which if they would all look, through the holes of its many balconies
and windows, and transparent blue waves the bottom of the abyss, and suck the breeze of the
plains of the right margin. At the foot of the city, starting from the left bank, climb the cordon
of strong walls and towers old, like a huge arm that extends from the heights Freiburg to
close the door to any scaling.

In the gentle hills that crown the neighborhood of the square stands the great Pensioner (building
that belonged to the Jesuits) sitting on the terrace of vegetables, and stand behind the Lyceum,
the beautiful tower of the Cathedral (which gives its chimes Free concerts every hour) and the humble
tower of some other churches.

The buildings Bourg waist seems to form a second stronghold, as if the huge rock were not enough,
- uniquely shaped bastion, whose nakedness contrasts with the gardens full of vegetables that
lie at the bottom of the valley and climb towards the middle of the canyon. There caracoles the Sarina
(dominated by a magnificent suspension bridge), clear, babbling and smiling. The fund also
could see, at the apex of the angle formed by the river, the end of Villanueva, which shed
their plumes are some factories and mills and dry cleaning.

Looking up on the hills of ES-E., Which dominate the margin right of the river, are on grass carpets
the most cheerful groves and orchards, and wayward paths carved into the rocks, and then stretch
as far on the horizon Far from the Bernese Alps, under a clear sky and fresh, lustrous meadows
where grazing cattle breeding and cheerful countryside where the crops thrive and numerous groups
of trees fruit.
 This made him think that he was in a sufficiently distinguished company, for if
he had been humiliated (which he was not), he could not have consoled himself with the reflection
that such a fate was natural to an obscure, struggling young artist. He could no longer think
of himself as very young, alas, and if his position was not so brilliant as it ought to be
he could no longer justify it by calling it a struggle. He was something of a celebrity and
he was apparently in a society of celebrities. This idea added to the curiosity with which
he looked up and down the long table as he settled himself in his place.

It was a numerous party--five and twenty people; rather an odd occasion to have proposed to
him, as he thought. He would not be surrounded by the quiet that ministers to good work; however,
it had never interfered with his work to see the spectacle of human life before him in the
intervals. And though he did not know it, it was never quiet at Stayes. When he was working
well he found himself in that happy state--the happiest of all for an artist--in which things
in general contribute to the particular idea and fall in with it, help it on and justify it,
so that he feels for the hour as if nothing in the world can happen to him, even if it come
in the guise of disaster or suffering, that will not be an enhancement of his subject. Moreover
there was an exhilaration (he had felt it before) in the rapid change of scene--the jump, in
the dusk of the afternoon, from foggy London and his familiar studio to a centre of festivity
in the middle of Hertfordshire and a drama half acted, a drama of pretty women and noted men
and wonderful orchids in silver jars. He observed as a not unimportant fact that one of the
pretty women was beside him: a gentleman sat on his other hand. But he went into his neighbours
little as yet: he was busy looking out for Sir David, whom he had never seen and about whom
he naturally was curious.

Evidently, however, Sir David was not at dinner, a circumstance sufficiently explained by the
other circumstance which constituted our friend's principal knowledge of him--his being ninety
years of age. Oliver Lyon had looked forward with great pleasure to the chance of painting
a nonagenarian, and though the old man's absence from table was something of a disappointment
(it was an opportunity the less to observe him before going to work), it seemed a sign that
he was rather a sacred and perhaps therefore an impressive relic. Lyon looked at his son with
the greater interest--wondered whether the glazed bloom of his cheek had been transmitted from
Sir David. That would be jolly to paint, in the old man--the withered ruddiness of a winter
apple, especially if the eye were still alive and the white hair carried out the frosty look.
Arthur Ashmore's hair had a midsummer glow, but Lyon was glad his commission had been to delineate
the father rather than the son, in spite of his never having seen the one and of the other
being seated there before him now in the happy expansion of liberal hospitality.

Arthur Ashmore was a fresh-coloured, thick-necked English gentleman, but he was just not a
subject; he might have been a farmer and he might have been a banker: you could scarcely paint
him in characters. His wife did not make up the amount; she was a large, bright, negative woman,
who had the same air as her husband of being somehow tremendously new; a sort of appearance
of fresh varnish (Lyon could scarcely tell whether it came from her complexion or from her
clothes), so that one felt she ought to sit in a gilt frame, suggesting reference to a catalogue
or a price-list. It was as if she were already rather a bad though expensive portrait, knocked
off by an eminent hand, and Lyon had no wish to copy that work. The pretty woman on his right
was engaged with her neighbour and the gentleman on his other side looked shrinking and scared,
so that he had time to lose himself in his favourite diversion of watching face after face. For there to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of
not having it. Additionally, or is one man, or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity,
guts to go where you go and do what others do, or serves or served for something more useful
and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and
shoemakers in fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail docks, and spending,
in short, time and money on trifles in vain and frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my love
soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it was
temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and even
by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and
defensive Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written
about mountains, forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote unexplored continent,
I can not answer that Missed me fever. Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed
that this amounted to burn my ships, or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long
my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things
as they were on good friends in Madrid that they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier
than solving the contrary from there, if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still
brewing other air cooler and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection
speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts Alea est, I thought,
like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only possible
by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort the stomach,
because there was no time to lose according to the opinion of the footman who was waiting
for me at that point from the previous day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one
to drive me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying the spur the horse that was
barely visible beneath the heap of my bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the
town by a bridge crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and after
a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population we left back, Vimon free field,
if free can which is encircled called barriers. From the summits of the highest fell off wisps
of fog that enveloped them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and the
thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with the mountain air blowing constantly,
and so fresh, that forced me to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left,
water above the river, with its fresh, green and pompous bank vaults
and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from time
to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up
the monotony of the landscape.

 Her talkativeness was systematic--she fraternised as
seriously as she might have played whist. 'They do as they like--they fill the house with people--they
have carte blanche.'

'I see--but there's still the title.'

'Yes, but what is it?'

Our artist broke into laughter at this, whereat his companion stared. Before he had recovered
himself she was scouring the plain with her other neighbour. The gentleman on his left at last
risked an observation, and they had some fragmentary talk. This personage played his part with
difficulty: he uttered a remark as a lady fires a pistol, looking the other way. To catch the
ball Lyon had to bend his ear, and this movement led to his observing a handsome creature who
was seated on the same side, beyond his interlocutor. Her profile was presented to him and
at first he was only struck with its beauty; then it produced an impression still more agreeable--a
sense of undimmed remembrance and intimate association. He had not recognised her on the instant
only because he had so little expected to see her there; he had not seen her anywhere for so
long, and no news of her ever came to him. She was often in his thoughts, but she had passed
out of his life. He thought of her twice a week; that may be called often in relation to a
person one has not seen for twelve years. The moment after he recognised her he felt how true
it was that it was only she who could look like that: of the most charming head in the world
(and this lady had it) there could never be a replica. She was leaning forward a little; she
remained in profile, apparently listening to some one on the other side of her. She was listening,
but she was also looking, and after a moment Lyon followed the direction of her eyes. They
rested upon the gentleman who had been described to him as Colonel Capadose--rested, as it
appeared to him, with a kind of habitual, visible complacency. This was not strange, for the
Colonel was unmistakably formed to attract the sympathetic gaze of woman; but Lyon was slightly
disappointed that she could let him look at her so long without giving him a glance. Son and resident of land plain,
mountains and sky saddened me fuzzy fearfulness me. Once one had been in the mountain capital,
masking a desire to tread "the land of my ancestors" my father would say, the temptation to spend
the summer at the port began to be "elegant." Rail crossing near the Cantabrian Mountains above
the sources of the Ebro, recalled that "there" did not know whether the right or left, had to
walk my ancestral home, in a withdrawal of those mountains mists and tight hooded black oak. And then
had more resonance in my heart this much-vaunted "cry blood."
 Colonel
Capadose appeared to be aware of nothing, and this circumstance, incongruously enough, rather
irritated Lyon than gratified him. Suddenly the lady turned her head, showing her full face
to our hero. He was so prepared with a greeting that he instantly smiled, as a shaken jug overflows;
but she gave him no response, turned away again and sank back in her chair. All that her face
said in that instant was, 'You see I'm as handsome as ever.' To which he mentally subjoined,
'Yes, and as much good it does me!' He asked the young man beside him if he knew who that beautiful
being was--the fifth person beyond him. The young man leaned forward, considered and then said,
'I think she's Mrs. Capadose.'

'Do you mean his wife--that fellow's?' And Lyon indicated the subject of the information given
him by his other neighbour.

'Oh, is he Mr. Capadose?' said the young man, who appeared very vague. He admitted his vagueness
and explained it by saying that there were so many people and he had come only the day before.
What was definite to Lyon was that Mrs. Capadose was in love with her husband; so that he wished
more than ever that he had married her.

'She's very faithful,' he found himself saying three minutes later to the lady on his right.
He added that he meant Mrs. Capadose.

'Ah, you know her then?'

'I knew her once upon a time--when I was living abroad.'

'Why then were you asking me about her husband?'

'Precisely for that reason. She married after that--I didn't even know her present name.'

'How then do you know it now?'

'This gentleman has just told me--he appears to know.'

'I didn't know he knew anything,' said the lady, glancing forward.

'I don't think he knows anything but that.'

'Then you have found out for yourself that she is faithful. What do you mean by that?'

'Ah, you mustn't question me--I want to question you,' Lyon said. 'How do you all like her here?'

'You ask too much! I can only speak for myself. I think she's hard.'

'That's only because she's honest and straightforward.'

'Do you mean I like people in proportion as they deceive?'

'I think we all do, so long as we don't find them out,' Lyon said. 'And then there's something
in her face--a sort of Roman type, in spite of her having such an English eye. In fact she's
English down to the ground; but her complexion, her low forehead and that beautiful close little
wave in her dark hair make her look like a glorified contadina.'

'Yes, and she always sticks pins and daggers into her head, to increase that effect. I must
say I like her husband better: he is so clever.'

'Well, when I knew her there was no comparison that could injure her. She was altogether the
most delightful thing in Munich.'

'In Munich?'

'Her people lived there; they were not rich--in pursuit of economy in fact, and Munich was
very cheap. Her father was the younger son of some noble house; he had married a second time
and had a lot of little mouths to feed. The excursion to across the
Sachseln town is really lovely. The site (which scarcely has about 1.500 residents) is literally
hidden at the foot of a magnificent mountain, a vast and gorgeous forest fruit trees, full of perfumes
and carpeted with hay and colorful flowers. The groups of apple, pear and plum trees alternate
with cherry, walnut and other trees confusion in the funniest. Thus, the district is literally
a Verjel, and its inhabitants live among flowers, fruits and scented vaults. I doubt that
judges have office there. The crime must be unknown in the village of humble gardeners, born between
flowers.

Lake Sarnen, making abstraction of the surrounding marshes, is a soft and serene. Its shores are confused
about the valley, the road passes and brushing their murmuring sleepy waves. On the opposite side are
well-cultivated plains, and two or three villages similar to that of Sachseln. The length of the
lake does not exceed 6.366 meters, to 1.916 wide and 70 deep; and
the navigation is done in little boats of simple construction.

Sarnen, which has just over 3,400 residents, is climbing partly on the side of a mountain, resting
softly on both banks of the Aa and surrounded by beautiful trees. The style of this small town
is so original and funny, and noting its simplicity of form no one would think that it is in
the capital of a sovereign Sitado. But this simplicity is understood with sympathy, knowing
that the double city of Unterwalden is not nothing but a humble and happy confederation of districts
that are all democratic republics. Unterwalden, by their smallness, not worth a relationship
stopped, as a political body; but some of its characteristic institutions
deserves to be cited as a model and to be respected by the philosophy
and good sense of its citizens.

The population of Nidwalden, race, or rather early Germanic speaking exclusively German (very flawed)
and has scarcely 24.960 individuals, distributed in 13 parishes, which correspond to 7 and
6 to Nidwalden Obwalden. Since the year of 1150 established the division State in two separate government
entities, with one capital in Sarnen and the other in Stanz. Unterwalden was one of the three
confederates who formed the League of William Tell to be a Swiss citizen, and his brave soldiers
took part in all the battles for independence. The Canton as a whole contains only natural
forests, Verjel meadows and, being almost completely void of cereal cultivation and manufacturing.
Thus, their yields are reduced to cutting of timber, crops of fruit (pears, apples, cherries, plums,
peaches, apricots and walnuts), the extraction of citron (kirchenwasser) exquisite walnut oil
and honey, and the manufacture of cheese, all of which yield relatively
large values, as well as the offspring of cattle.

Each of the parishes as a democratic, independent self-government and governed by assemblies
of all citizens, and elected officials for services permanent. Each half-canton has its own
citizens, and only have the common suffrage a hundred primitive patrician families were entitled
before the division of State. The institutions of the two half-cantons or political twins are
so similar that enough to indicate one of them to the whole idea. Each year all meet in Assembly
active citizens of the Confederation of parishes [24] in order to discuss and vote laws and budgets,
approve the accounts of the administration, appoint, if appropriate, the representatives to be
included in the legislative bodies of the Confederation Swiss, and choose the high magistrates
of the common administration of small confederation. The House has no initiative in legislation
and is reduced to approve or reject which offers the Executive. This is composed of 12 or 14 judges
called Proposed (Vorgesetzten), chaired by the Landammann (Man who rules the country), kind of President
elected annually by the Assembly or Landsgemeinde. The Proposed are immovable.

[24] More than a quarter of the inhabitants are citizens.

Obwalden has about 13.400 inhabitants and Nidwalden the rest. Citizenship is acquired at the
age of 20 years.

The most beautiful feature of these two confederations microscopic living so happily its pure democracy
is the institution on the death penalty. This can not be pronounced or ordered, by great coincidence
occurs when a capital crime, but by a grand jury composed permanent judges and all citizens
over 30 years (except the clergy) who are not relatives of the parties and may be sworn. After
the principle of sanctity of life, worth more than all, nothing is as beautiful as this recognition
the principle of social family, whereby it is allowed to take the life one of its members
without the whole community of their vote and consents. It is strange that a statelet microscopic
lost between the buttresses and lakes of the Alps, you are giving
lessons to be called civilized world about the fraternal solidarity
of men and rights of human life!

Do not forget to note that the Executive is assisted in each half-canton by a grand Council of Representatives,
and the superior court of each group is also a federal set of judges or legal representatives
of the parishes.

Thus, the federal idea is shown in all entities, from the confederation of individuals to
the districts as shown later in the association of sovereign cantons.

In Alpnach port at the foot of Mount Pilatus, we embarked on board a steam cross the lake of Four
Cantons in the direction of Lucerne.

To our right we saw Stanz, asleep in his graceful valley, and Lake unfolding before our eyes haunted
her waves reverberant, its magnificent mountains and a panorama of the most poetic and varied
forms evoked in all its sites a thousand memories of the heroic times of Switzerland.

Almost in the center of Swiss territory in the region where it ends in a way the mountainous
area and starts the undulating or very rough, there is a relatively hoya considerable, taking on the river
Reuss hydrographic center offers to the eye of the traveler the more varied and perhaps the
most beautiful panorama of this natural wonderland.

This basin, with irregular shapes and less enclosed on all sides to the north, is determined
by numerous buttresses the Alps shed on the plains in many different directions, and a whole
produces the juxtaposition of numerous valleys, very narrow and deep, spinning all over the central
valley of the Reuss river, rising in the heights of the Furka, a
short distance from the source of the Rhone, runs absolutely opposite
direction and goes from south to north, to carry its waters into the
Rhine, misdiagnosed as Aar and the Limmat.

The sinus or widening of the Reuss in the bottom of a huge basin perpendicular rocks, is what
is the lake of Four Cantons (Fri-Waldstatt-See), the most irregular and, without dispute,
the most curious is how Switzerland.

At around that lake basin and within the basin indicated are, in whole or in hand, the four
corners that give your name to the lake: the O. that of Nidwalden; to S. the of Uri, the E.
that of Schwyz, and N. that of Luzern or Lucerne, - surrounded by Berne, Glarus, Zug, Aargau,
etc.

Thus, the four corners are the most picturesque cluster of steep hills and steep (Some snow), narrow
and smiling valleys, hills and streams, forests, meadows and Verjel, which are stacked or alternated
around the lake to multiple and capricious as the thousand varied forms a vast semi-wilderness park
and around semi-artificial an enormous pool of granite murmuring
waves and blue transparent.

If the topography and the community of interests, patriotic efforts, language, religion, race and
traditions, have created a close fellowship among the four or five cantons rather above, the conformation
of its admirable Lake states, with no less evidence that the topography, that those people were
born destined to the social community.

In fact, if you look at the strange configuration of the entire lake, the opposite direction
its bays and five major rivers or streams drain into the basin common
granite, is recognized in a very distant time, but the current did
not exist a series of five or six lakes, linked together by rivers
and stretching that determined confounded all the Lucerne Basin.

Thus, having its main channel flow and in the Reuss, the total lake (which must have formed
by natural levees breaking and the widening more or less slow tributary channels) is: to the
east, the waters of Muottas, central stream the canton of Schwyz, the west, on the Isenthal,
the lower or middle Aa city of Nidwalden, and higher Aa, which, as I said, collects the waters
of the canton of Obwalden half.

The lake as a whole has the irregular shape of some sort of a Latin cross with the shaft broken
down, but lying in the opposite direction. The broken foot is a small basin Altorf for the valley,
particularly called Lake of Uri, and fed only by the waters of the Reuss and Isenthal. The central
body of the cross is determined the other basin of a very different direction, almost enclosed by
two narrow, which is named Buochs ​​particular lake, and get at its upper end Muottas waters,
and towards the N.-O. Aa the bottom. Below opens another watershed, one of the beams a magnificent
four-star gulfs, is both the principle of the body or trunk the large cross. There the waters
are divided into four receptacles quite similar: on the right foot tour of the magnificent mountain
of Rigi or Righi, bearing at its apex to Küssnach; on the left, which
is another arm of the cross, is directed towards the foot of the colossal
mass of Pilate, and is divided into two smaller bays, one of which
is Lake Alpnach, in short, that determines the head of the cross takes
its direction towards Lucerne with the unique name of Lake Lucerne,
is making its way through the midst of beautiful, rolling hills, dividing
the city into two parts, and restore the river Reuss.

This imperfect and pale description will give some idea of ​​the singular caprice or the multiplicity
forms the lake of Four Cantons, the most interesting of all of Switzerland for appearance and composition
geological basins that are chained, and the most poetic Also, because of the performances offered
and the relatively evokes memories to the history of the Confederation Considered in full,
the lake has an elevation from 438 to 450 meters above sea level, and measured at its maximum
length 38.530 meters, 15.100 wide and 360 deep. The various directions of the valleys or the works
that are incline toward the lake basin determines the most diverse and even opposing wind currents,
which together with the steep, rocky composition throughout the bed,
produces the most violent storms, which are repeated frequently and
sometimes suddenly.

Lucerne is, no doubt, by their situation and the gorgeous countryside surrounding it, one of the
funniest cities in Switzerland, or at least of that delay on lake margins. Thus, a whole or general
appearance, whether you look at it from the lake, whether it contemplates from some eminence,
is wonderfully poetic and cheerful. HOWEVER, within, apart some curious details, Lucerne does not
correspond to their appearance or to the idea that their reputation makes him conceive in advance
of the traveler. The facade does not match at all with interior é of the city. When we arrived
on board the steamer which took us from eleven o'clock Alpenach in the morning, under a sky
full of splendor glistened in the beam almost perpendicular the sun the lake and the river,
docks and bridges, great and beautiful modern buildings dominate a wide boardwalk square, the towers
of the cathedral and other churches, and numerous towers and bastions of feudal crenellated walls that
surround the city. This set was really seductive, and its beauty is completed with the magnificence
of the scenery round about, overcrowding of beautiful rolling hills
covered with orchards and gardens dotted with villas and picturesque
country houses in dispersion.

But to penetrate into the city, just behind the first row of buildings overlooking the lake,
everything changed in appearance. Wherever there are filth in the streets, Dresses sad, neglected
and without character, winding streets, ugly and unpleasant, and looking houses with much sympathy.
Fortunately, if the dirt and waste increases sorrow of those streets, industrial and commercial
movement gives them some animation of another kind. The curious traveler stops to look at public
sources of traditional forms and features (perhaps the most original of all those seen in Switzerland),
and bridges cast Reuss on to join the two parts of the city, nearly all of wood, covered and
decorated with the most curious altarpieces. Each country is manifested in its monuments in
Switzerland, the country the pure and abundant waters, has lavished
on all those sources commemorative cities national traditions, the
forms are so characteristic.

Lucerne is not remarkable for any fine art, industrial or literary, or their monuments or public
buildings. Their unique wooden bridges, so characteristic of Switzerland, as public sources
of stone topped by figures of warriors or animals, curious that are not in fact deserve the name
of monuments. The most beautiful building in the city, located on the S.-O., to the left of
the river, is the former Jesuit College (now Lycée cantonal become), and that superiority is further
evidence of that everywhere the Society of Jesus has made the best batch. Of the four bridges
of Lucerne the most notable are: the Hof, measuring 360 meters long and crosses the apex of the lake,
offers a wonderful view over the mountains, and is lined inside with 238 bad pictures painted
in oils representing biblical passages, and the Kapell, which dominates the point the lake becomes
a river, is 324 meters and contains 154 pictures of very old date represent events in the history
of Switzerland and the life and times of the two patron saints of the city, for the curious
who are these old bridges is to be welcomed the resolution of demolish the city to establish
piers and docks along the banks of river, and replace them with more
solid and elegant buildings.

Of all the sights of Lucerne, which draws more attention from passers travelers The monument is dedicated,
out of town, to the memory of Swiss soldiers who died the service of Louis XVI on the famous
day of August 10, 1792, fighting against the people Paris. The monument consists of a huge lion
allegorical (9 meters long and 6 height) carved in the bottom of a sort of cave dug into a large
boulder. A waterfall that jumps over the lion, falling into a pond, a nearby chapel, a smart
house within which sales are a thousand curiosities, and flags of green surrounding the monument,
complete the picture funny. There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis XVI, securing
with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual day of August
10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more than sixty
years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent a serious
citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss and carefully
writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride that
the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed
of soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in
the last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have
taken action at this time strong to end the mercenaries.

They talked about the house, Lyon having noticed an oddity of construction in the smoking-room;
and the Colonel explained that it consisted of two distinct parts, one of which was of very
great antiquity. They were two complete houses in short, the old one and the new, each of great
extent and each very fine in its way. The two formed together an enormous structure--Lyon must
make a point of going all over it. The modern portion had been erected by the old man when
he bought the property; oh yes, he had bought it, forty years before--it hadn't been in the
family: there hadn't been any particular family for it to be in. He had had the good taste
not to spoil the original house--he had not touched it beyond what was just necessary for joining
it on. It was very curious indeed--a most irregular, rambling, mysterious pile, where they
every now and then discovered a walled-up room or a secret staircase. To his mind it was essentially
gloomy, however; even the modern additions, splendid as they were, failed to make it cheerful.
There was some story about a skeleton having been found years before, during some repairs,
under a stone slab of the floor of one of the passages; but the family were rather shy of its
being talked about. The place they were in was of course in the old part, which contained after
all some of the best rooms: he had an idea it had been the primitive kitchen, half modernised
at some intermediate period.

'My room is in the old part too then--I'm very glad,' Lyon said. 'It's very comfortable and
contains all the latest conveniences, but I observed the depth of the recess of the door and
the evident antiquity of the corridor and staircase--the first short one--after I came out.
That panelled corridor is admirable; it looks as if it stretched away, in its brown dimness
(the lamps didn't seem to me to make much impression on it), for half a mile.'

'Oh, don't go to the end of it!' exclaimed the Colonel, smiling.

'Does it lead to the haunted room?' Lyon asked.

His companion looked at him a moment. 'Ah, you know about that?'

'No, I don't speak from knowledge, only from hope. I have never had any luck--I have never
stayed in a dangerous house. The places I go to are always as safe as Charing Cross. I want
to see--whatever there is, the regular thing. Is there a ghost here?'

'Of course there is--a rattling good one.'

'And have you seen him?'

'Oh, don't ask me what I've seen--I should tax your credulity. I don't like to talk of these
things. But there are two or three as bad--that is, as good!--rooms as you'll find anywhere.'

'Do you mean in my corridor?' Lyon asked.

'I believe the worst is at the far end. But you would be ill-advised to sleep there.'

'Ill-advised?'

'Until you've finished your job. You'll get letters of importance the next morning, and you'll
take the 10.20.'

'Do you mean I will invent a pretext for running away?'

'Unless you are braver than almost any one has ever been. They don't often put people to sleep
there, but sometimes the house is so crowded that they have to. The same thing always happens--ill-concealed
agitation at the breakfast-table and letters of the greatest importance. Of course it's a bachelor's
room, and my wife and I are at the other end of the house. But we saw the comedy three days
ago--the day after we got here. A young fellow had been put there--I forget his name--the house
was so full; and the usual consequence followed. Letters at breakfast--an awfully queer face--an
urgent call to town--so very sorry his visit was cut short. Ashmore and his wife looked at
each other, and off the poor devil went.'

'Ah, that wouldn't suit me; I must paint my picture,' said Lyon. 'But do they mind your speaking
of it? Some people who have a good ghost are very proud of it, you know.'

What answer Colonel Capadose was on the point of making to this inquiry our hero was not to
learn, for at that moment their host had walked into the room accompanied by three or four
gentlemen. Lyon was conscious that he was partly answered by the Colonel's not going on with
the subject. This however on the other hand was rendered natural by the fact that one of the
gentlemen appealed to him for an opinion on a point under discussion, something to do with
the everlasting history of the day's run. To Lyon himself Mr. Ashmore began to talk, expressing
his regret at having had so little direct conversation with him as yet. The topic that suggested
itself was naturally that most closely connected with the motive of the artist's visit. Lyon
remarked that it was a great disadvantage to him not to have had some preliminary acquaintance
with Sir David--in most cases he found that so important. But the present sitter was so far
advanced in life that there was doubtless no time to lose. 'Oh, I can tell you all about him,'
said Mr. Ashmore; and for half an hour he told him a good deal. It was very interesting as
well as very eulogistic, and Lyon could see that he was a very nice old man, to have endeared
himself so to a son who was evidently not a gusher. At last he got up--he said he must go to
bed if he wished to be fresh for his work in the morning. To which his host replied, 'Then
you must take your candle; the lights are out; I don't keep my servants up.'

In a moment Lyon had his glimmering taper in hand, and as he was leaving the room (he did not
disturb the others with a good-night; they were absorbed in the lemon-squeezer and the soda-water
cork) he remembered other occasions on which he had made his way to bed alone through a darkened
country-house; such occasions had not been rare, for he was almost always the first to leave
the smoking-room. If he had not stayed in houses conspicuously haunted he had, none the less
(having the artistic temperament), sometimes found the great black halls and staircases rather
'creepy': there had been often a sinister effect, to his imagination, in the sound of his tread
in the long passages or the way the winter moon peeped into tall windows on landings. It occurred
to him that if houses without supernatural pretensions could look so wicked at night, the old
corridors of Stayes would certainly give him a sensation. He didn't know whether the proprietors
were sensitive; very often, as he had said to Colonel Capadose, people enjoyed the impeachment.
What determined him to speak, with a certain sense of the risk, was the impression that the
Colonel told queer stories. As he had his hand on the door he said to Arthur Ashmore, 'I hope
I shan't meet any ghosts.'

'Any ghosts?'

'You ought to have some--in this fine old part.'

'We do our best, but que voulez-vous?' said Mr. Ashmore. 'I don't think they like the hot-water
pipes.'

'They remind them too much of their own climate? But haven't you a haunted room--at the end
of my passage?'

'Oh, there are stories--we try to keep them up.'

'I should like very much to sleep there,' Lyon said.

'Well, you can move there to-morrow if you like.'

'Perhaps I had better wait till I have done my work.'

'Very good; but you won't work there, you know. My father will sit to you in his own apartments.'

'Oh, it isn't that; it's the fear of running away, like that gentleman three days ago.'

'Three days ago? What gentleman?' Mr. Ashmore asked.

'The one who got urgent letters at breakfast and fled by the 10.20. Did he stand more than
one night?'

'I don't know what you are talking about. There was no such gentleman--three days ago.'

'Ah, so much the better,' said Lyon, nodding good-night and departing. He took his course,
as he remembered it, with his wavering candle, and, though he encountered a great many gruesome
objects, safely reached the passage out of which his room opened. In the complete darkness
it seemed to stretch away still further, but he followed it, for the curiosity of the thing,
to the end. He passed several doors with the name of the room painted upon them, but he found
nothing else. He was tempted to try the last door--to look into the room of evil fame; but
he reflected that this would be indiscreet, since Colonel Capadose handled the brush--as a
raconteur--with such freedom. There might be a ghost and there might not; but the Colonel himself,
he inclined to think, was the most mystifying figure in the house.

II

Lyon found Sir David Ashmore a capital subject and a very comfortable sitter into the bargain.
Moreover he was a very agreeable old man, tremendously puckered but not in the least dim; and
he wore exactly the furred dressing-gown that Lyon would have chosen. He was proud of his age
but ashamed of his infirmities, which however he greatly exaggerated and which did not prevent
him from sitting there as submissive as if portraiture in oils had been a branch of surgery.
He demolished the legend of his having feared the operation would be fatal, giving an explanation
which pleased our friend much better. He held that a gentleman should be painted but once in
his life--that it was eager and fatuous to be hung up all over the place. That was good for
women, who made a pretty wall-pattern; but the male face didn't lend itself to decorative repetition.
The proper time for the likeness was at the last, when the whole man was there--you got the
totality of his experience. Lyon could not reply that that period was not a real compendium--you
had to allow so for leakage; for there had been no crack in Sir David's crystallisation. He
spoke of his portrait as a plain map of the country, to be consulted by his children in a case
of uncertainty. A proper map could be drawn up only when the country had been travelled. He
gave Lyon his mornings, till luncheon, and they talked of many things, not neglecting, as a
stimulus to gossip, the people in the house. Now that he did not 'go out,' as he said, he saw
much less of the visitors at Stayes: people came and went whom he knew nothing about, and he
liked to hear Lyon describe them. The artist sketched with a fine point and did not caricature,
and it usually befell that when Sir David did not know the sons and daughters he had known
the fathers and mothers. He was one of those terrible old gentlemen who are a repository of
antecedents. But in the case of the Capadose family, at whom they arrived by an easy stage,
his knowledge embraced two, or even three, generations. General Capadose was an old crony,
and he remembered his father before him. The general was rather a smart soldier, but in private
life of too speculative a turn--always sneaking into the City to put his money into some rotten
thing. He married a girl who brought him something and they had half a dozen children. He scarcely
knew what had become of the rest of them, except that one was in the Church and had found preferment--wasn't
he Dean of Rockingham? Clement, the fellow who was at Stayes, had some military talent; he
had served in the East, he had married a pretty girl. He had been at Eton with his son, and
he used to come to Stayes in his holidays. Lately, coming back to England, he had turned up
with his wife again; that was before he--the old man--had been put to grass. He was a taking
dog, but he had a monstrous foible.

'A monstrous foible?' said Lyon.

'He's a thumping liar.'

Lyon's brush stopped short, while he repeated, for somehow the formula startled him, 'A thumping
liar?'

'You are very lucky not to have found it out.'

'Well, I confess I have noticed a romantic tinge----'

'Oh, it isn't always romantic. He'll lie about the time of day, about the name of his hatter.
It appears there are people like that.'

'Well, they are precious scoundrels,' Lyon declared, his voice trembling a little with the
thought of what Everina Brant had done with herself.

'Oh, not always,' said the old man. 'This fellow isn't in the least a scoundrel. There is no
harm in him and no bad intention; he doesn't steal nor cheat nor gamble nor drink; he's very
kind--he sticks to his wife, is fond of his children. He simply can't give you a straight answer.'

'Then everything he told me last night, I suppose, was mendacious: he delivered himself of
a series of the stiffest statements. They stuck, when I tried to swallow them, but I never
thought of so simple an explanation.'

'No doubt he was in the vein,' Sir David went on. 'It's a natural peculiarity--as you might
limp or stutter or be left-handed. I believe it comes and goes, like intermittent fever. My
son tells me that his friends usually understand it and don't haul him up--for the sake of
his wife.'

'Oh, his wife--his wife!' Lyon murmured, painting fast.

'I daresay she's used to it.'

'Never in the world, Sir David. How can she be used to it?'

'Why, my dear sir, when a woman's fond!--And don't they mostly handle the long bow themselves?
They are connoisseurs--they have a sympathy for a fellow-performer.'

Lyon was silent a moment; he had no ground for denying that Mrs. Capadose was attached to her
husband. But after a little he rejoined: 'Oh, not this one! I knew her years ago--before her
marriage; knew her well and admired her. She was as clear as a bell.'

'I like her very much,' Sir David said, 'but I have seen her back him up.'

Lyon considered Sir David for a moment, not in the light of a model. 'Are you very sure?'

The old man hesitated; then he answered, smiling, 'You're in love with her.'

'Very likely. God knows I used to be!'

'She must help him out--she can't expose him.'

'She can hold her tongue,' Lyon remarked.

'Well, before you probably she will.'

'That's what I am curious to see.' And Lyon added, privately, 'Mercy on us, what he must have
made of her!' He kept this reflection to himself, for he considered that he had sufficiently
betrayed his state of mind with regard to Mrs. Capadose. None the less it occupied him now
immensely, the question of how such a woman would arrange herself in such a predicament. He
watched her with an interest deeply quickened when he mingled with the company; he had had
his own troubles in life, but he had rarely been so anxious about anything as he was now to
see what the loyalty of a wife and the infection of an example would have made of an absolutely
truthful mind. Oh, he held it as immutably established that whatever other women might be prone
to do she, of old, had been perfectly incapable of a deviation. Even if she had not been too
simple to deceive she would have been too proud; and if she had not had too much conscience
she would have had too little eagerness. It was the last thing she would have endured or condoned--the
particular thing she would not have forgiven. Did she sit in torment while her husband turned
his somersaults, or was she now too so perverse that she thought it a fine thing to be striking
at the expense of one's honour? It would have taken a wondrous alchemy--working backwards,
as it were--to produce this latter result. Besides these two alternatives (that she suffered
tortures in silence and that she was so much in love that her husband's humiliating idiosyncrasy
seemed to her only an added richness--a proof of life and talent), there was still the possibility
that she had not found him out, that she took his false pieces at his own valuation. A little
reflection rendered this hypothesis untenable; it was too evident that the account he gave
of things must repeatedly have contradicted her own knowledge. Within an hour or two of his
meeting them Lyon had seen her confronted with that perfectly gratuitous invention about the
profit they had made off his early picture. Even then indeed she had not, so far as he could
see, smarted, and--but for the present he could only contemplate the case.

Even if it had not been interfused, through his uneradicated tenderness for Mrs. Capadose,
with an element of suspense, the question would still have presented itself to him as a very
curious problem, for he had not painted portraits during so many years without becoming something
of a psychologist. His inquiry was limited for the moment to the opportunity that the following
three days might yield, as the Colonel and his wife were going on to another house. It fixed
itself largely of course upon the Colonel too--this gentleman was such a rare anomaly. Moreover
it had to go on very quickly. Lyon was too scrupulous to ask other people what they thought
of the business--he was too afraid of exposing the woman he once had loved. It was probable
also that light would come to him from the talk of the rest of the company: the Colonel's queer
habit, both as it affected his own situation and as it affected his wife, would be a familiar
theme in any house in which he was in the habit of staying. Lyon had not observed in the circles
in which he visited any marked abstention from comment on the singularities of their members.
It interfered with his progress that the Colonel hunted all day, while he plied his brushes
and chatted with Sir David; but a Sunday intervened and that partly made it up. Mrs. Capadose
fortunately did not hunt, and when his work was over she was not inaccessible. He took a couple
of longish walks with her (she was fond of that), and beguiled her at tea into a friendly nook
in the hall. Regard her as he might he could not make out to himself that she was consumed
by a hidden shame; the sense of being married to a man whose word had no worth was not, in
her spirit, so far as he could guess, the canker within the rose. Her mind appeared to have
nothing on it but its own placid frankness, and when he looked into her eyes (deeply, as he
occasionally permitted himself to do), they had no uncomfortable consciousness. He talked to
her again and still again of the dear old days--reminded her of things that he had not (before
this reunion) the least idea that he remembered. Then he spoke to her of her husband, praised
his appearance, his talent for conversation, professed to have felt a quick friendship for
him and asked (with an inward audacity at which he trembled a little) what manner of man he
was. 'What manner?' said Mrs. Capadose. 'Dear me, how can one describe one's husband? I like
him very much.'

'Ah, you have told me that already!' Lyon exclaimed, with exaggerated ruefulness.

'Then why do you ask me again?' She added in a moment, as if she were so happy that she could
afford to take pity on him, 'He is everything that's good and kind. He's a soldier--and a gentleman--and
a dear! He hasn't a fault. And he has great ability.'

'Yes; he strikes one as having great ability. But of course I can't think him a dear.'

'I don't care what you think him!' said Mrs. Capadose, looking, it seemed to him, as she smiled,
handsomer than he had ever seen her. She was either deeply cynical or still more deeply impenetrable,
and he had little prospect of winning from her the intimation that he longed for--some hint
that it had come over her that after all she had better have married a man who was not a by-word
for the most contemptible, the least heroic, of vices. Had she not seen--had she not felt--the
smile go round when her husband executed some especially characteristic conversational caper?
How could a woman of her quality endure that day after day, year after year, except by her
quality's altering? But he would believe in the alteration only when he should have heard her
lie. He was fascinated by his problem and yet half exasperated, and he asked himself all kinds
of questions. Did she not lie, after all, when she let his falsehoods pass without a protest?
Was not her life a perpetual complicity, and did she not aid and abet him by the simple fact
that she was not disgusted with him? Then again perhaps she was disgusted and it was the mere
desperation of her pride that had given her an inscrutable mask. Perhaps she protested in private,
passionately; perhaps every night, in their own apartments, after the day's hideous performance,
she made him the most scorching scene. But if such scenes were of no avail and he took no more
trouble to cure himself, how could she regard him, and after so many years of marriage too,
with the perfectly artless complacency that Lyon had surprised in her in the course of the
first day's dinner? If our friend had not been in love with her he could have taken the diverting
view of the Colonel's delinquencies; but as it was they turned to the tragical in his mind,
even while he had a sense that his solicitude might also have been laughed at.

The observation of these three days showed him that if Capadose was an abundant he was not
a malignant liar and that his fine faculty exercised itself mainly on subjects of small direct
importance. 'He is the liar platonic,' he said to himself; 'he is disinterested, he doesn't
operate with a hope of gain or with a desire to injure. It is art for art and he is prompted
by the love of beauty. He has an inner vision of what might have been, of what ought to be,
and he helps on the good cause by the simple substitution of a nuance. He paints, as it were,
and so do I!' His manifestations had a considerable variety, but a family likeness ran through
them, which consisted mainly of their singular futility. It was this that made them offensive;
they encumbered the field of conversation, took up valuable space, converted it into a sort
of brilliant sun-shot fog. For a fib told under pressure a convenient place can usually be
found, as for a person who presents himself with an author's order at the first night of a
play. But the supererogatory lie is the gentleman without a voucher or a ticket who accommodates
himself with a stool in the passage.

In one particular Lyon acquitted his successful rival; it had puzzled him that irrepressible
as he was he had not got into a mess in the service. But he perceived that he respected the
service--that august institution was sacred from his depredations. Moreover though there was
a great deal of swagger in his talk it was, oddly enough, rarely swagger about his military
exploits. He had a passion for the chase, he had followed it in far countries and some of his
finest flowers were reminiscences of lonely danger and escape. The more solitary the scene
the bigger of course the flower. A new acquaintance, with the Colonel, always received the
tribute of a bouquet: that generalisation Lyon very promptly made. And this extraordinary man
had inconsistencies and unexpected lapses--lapses into flat veracity. Lyon recognised what
Sir David had told him, that his aberrations came in fits or periods--that he would sometimes
keep the truce of God for a month at a time. The muse breathed upon him at her pleasure; she
often left him alone. He would neglect the finest openings and then set sail in the teeth of
the breeze. As a general thing he affirmed the false rather than denied the true; yet this
proportion was sometimes strikingly reversed. Very often he joined in the laugh against himself--he
admitted that he was trying it on and that a good many of his anecdotes had an experimental
character. Still he never completely retracted nor retreated--he dived and came up in another
place. Lyon divined that he was capable at intervals of defending his position with violence,
but only when it was a very bad one. Then he might easily be dangerous--then he would hit out
and become calumnious. Such occasions would test his wife's equanimity--Lyon would have liked
to see her there. In the smoking-room and elsewhere the company, so far as it was composed
of his familiars, had an hilarious protest always at hand; but among the men who had known
him long his rich tone was an old story, so old that they had ceased to talk about it, and
Lyon did not care, as I have said, to elicit the judgment of those who might have shared his
own surprise.

The oddest thing of all was that neither surprise nor familiarity prevented the Colonel's being
liked; his largest drafts on a sceptical attention passed for an overflow of life and gaiety--almost
of good looks. He was fond of portraying his bravery and used a very big brush, and yet he
was unmistakably brave. He was a capital rider and shot, in spite of his fund of anecdote illustrating
these accomplishments: in short he was very nearly as clever and his career had been very nearly
as wonderful as he pretended. His best quality however remained that indiscriminate sociability
which took interest and credulity for granted and about which he bragged least. It made him
cheap, it made him even in a manner vulgar; but it was so contagious that his listener was
more or less on his side as against the probabilities. It was a private reflection of Oliver
Lyon's that he not only lied but made one feel one's self a bit of a liar, even (or especially)
if one contradicted him. In the evening, at dinner and afterwards, our friend watched his wife's
face to see if some faint shade or spasm never passed over it. But she showed nothing, and
the wonder was that when he spoke she almost always listened. That was her pride: she wished
not to be even suspected of not facing the music. Lyon had none the less an importunate vision
of a veiled figure coming the next day in the dusk to certain places to repair the Colonel's
ravages, as the relatives of kleptomaniacs punctually call at the shops that have suffered
from their pilferings.

'I must apologise, of course it wasn't true, I hope no harm is done, it is only his incorrigible----'
Oh, to hear that woman's voice in that deep abasement! Lyon had no nefarious plan, no conscious
wish to practise upon her shame or her loyalty; but he did say to himself that he should like
to bring her round to feel that there would have been more dignity in a union with a certain
other person. He even dreamed of the hour when, with a burning face, she would ask him not
to take it up. Then he should be almost consoled--he would be magnanimous.

Lyon finished his picture and took his departure, after having worked in a glow of interest
which made him believe in his success, until he found he had pleased every one, especially
Mr. and Mrs. Ashmore, when he began to be sceptical. The party at any rate changed: Colonel
and Mrs. Capadose went their way. He was able to say to himself however that his separation
from the lady was not so much an end as a beginning, and he called on her soon after his return
to town. She had told him the hours she was at home--she seemed to like him. If she liked him
why had she not married him or at any rate why was she not sorry she had not? If she was sorry
she concealed it too well. Lyon's curiosity on this point may strike the reader as fatuous,
but something must be allowed to a disappointed man. He did not ask much after all; not that
she should love him to-day or that she should allow him to tell her that he loved her, but
only that she should give him some sign she was sorry. Instead of this, for the present, she
contented herself with exhibiting her little daughter to him. The child was beautiful and had
the prettiest eyes of innocence he had ever seen: which did not prevent him from wondering
whether she told horrid fibs. This idea gave him much entertainment--the picture of the anxiety
with which her mother would watch as she grew older for the symptoms of heredity. That was
a nice occupation for Everina Brant! Did she lie to the child herself, about her father--was
that necessary, when she pressed her daughter to her bosom, to cover up his tracks? Did he
control himself before the little girl--so that she might not hear him say things she knew
to be other than he said? Lyon doubted this: his genius would be too strong for him, and the
only safety for the child would be in her being too stupid to analyse. One couldn't judge yet--she
was too young. If she should grow up clever she would be sure to tread in his steps--a delightful
improvement in her mother's situation! Her little face was not shifty, but neither was her
father's big one: so that proved nothing.

Lyon reminded his friends more than once of their promise that Amy should sit to him, and it
was only a question of his leisure. The desire grew in him to paint the Colonel also--an operation
from which he promised himself a rich private satisfaction. He would draw him out, he would
set him up in that totality about which he had talked with Sir David, and none but the initiated
would know. They, however, would rank the picture high, and it would be indeed six rows deep--a
masterpiece of subtle characterisation, of legitimate treachery. He had dreamed for years of
producing something which should bear the stamp of the psychologist as well as of the painter,
and here at last was his subject. It was a pity it was not better, but that was not his fault.
It was his impression that already no one drew the Colonel out more than he, and he did it
not only by instinct but on a plan. There were moments when he was almost frightened at the
success of his plan--the poor gentleman went so terribly far. He would pull up some day, look
at Lyon between the eyes--guess he was being played upon--which would lead to his wife's guessing
it also. Not that Lyon cared much for that however, so long as she failed to suppose (as she
must) that she was a part of his joke. He formed such a habit now of going to see her of a
Sunday afternoon that he was angry when she went out of town. This occurred often, as the couple
were great visitors and the Colonel was always looking for sport, which he liked best when
it could be had at other people's expense. Lyon would have supposed that this sort of life
was particularly little to her taste, for he had an idea that it was in country-houses that
her husband came out strongest. To let him go off without her, not to see him expose himself--that
ought properly to have been a relief and a luxury to her. She told Lyon in fact that she preferred
staying at home; but she neglected to say it was because in other people's houses she was on
the rack: the reason she gave was that she liked so to be with the child. It was not perhaps
criminal to draw such a bow, but it was vulgar: poor Lyon was delighted when he arrived at
that formula. Certainly some day too he would cross the line--he would become a noxious animal.
Yes, in the meantime he was vulgar, in spite of his talents, his fine person, his impunity.
Twice, by exception, toward the end of the winter, when he left town for a few days' hunting,
his wife remained at home. Lyon had not yet reached the point of asking himself whether the
desire not to miss two of his visits had something to do with her immobility. That inquiry
would perhaps have been more in place later, when he began to paint the child and she always
came with her. But it was not in her to give the wrong name, to pretend, and Lyon could see
that she had the maternal passion, in spite of the bad blood in the little girl's veins.

She came inveterately, though Lyon multiplied the sittings: Amy was never entrusted to the
governess or the maid. He had knocked off poor old Sir David in ten days, but the portrait
of the simple-faced child bade fair to stretch over into the following year. He asked for sitting
after sitting, and it would have struck any one who might have witnessed the affair that he
was wearing the little girl out. He knew better however and Mrs. Capadose also knew: they were
present together at the long intermissions he gave her, when she left her pose and roamed about
the great studio, amusing herself with its curiosities, playing with the old draperies and
costumes, having unlimited leave to handle. Then her mother and Mr. Lyon sat and talked; he
laid aside his brushes and leaned back in his chair; he always gave her tea. What Mrs. Capadose
did not know was the way that during these weeks he neglected other orders: women have no faculty
of imagination with regard to a man's work beyond a vague idea that it doesn't matter. In fact
Lyon put off everything and made several celebrities wait. There were half-hours of silence,
when he plied his brushes, during which he was mainly conscious that Everina was sitting there.
She easily fell into that if he did not insist on talking, and she was not embarrassed nor
bored by it. Instead of eight or ten travelers who are locked in the cars of France England, etc..,
Switzerland meet forty, fifty or more in one carriage, and the traveler curious to observe the country
can go to the small platform that stands between every two wagons and from there to contemplate
with delight the outburst ú magnificence of the landscape. The travel system in common that
has the double advantage of maintaining surveillance of drivers to ensure that travelers do not commit
indiscretions, and that can not happen disorders and crimes as have taken place in many European
railways, and to establish between travelers passing familiarity courteous and makes the trip
more fun and allows the exchange of news and instructive comments.

HOWEVER, it is clear that such a system would be unacceptable on long trips or for more than
five hours, in which the traveler wishes to have independence and, feeling fatigued, sit comfortably.
The promiscuity of the big wagons does not fit into rigor but to democratic habits, and in
this respect seemed perfectly Switzerland. Confess the incident, trifling in appearance, I gave
rise to a reflection that, in my opinion, contains throughout the synthesis of civilization.
The railway, the newspaper, the steamship, the telegraph electrical, industrial exhibitions, artistic,
etc., and international scientific conferences, are clearly distinctive symbols or characters of this century,
since in the fund does not mean only free competition, a community of interest, advertising
and cosmopolitanism. Universality is, therefore, the essential condition of all these manifestations
of progress.

But it is clear that if universality were to bring uniformity, Civilization standing would
be found soon for lack of personality in each of the major groups human, and that the show would
progress sadly monotonous. In this evil is opposed the free action of people, fortunately, and
that is why freedom of all peoples great interest to humanity. In fact, each town, according
to his genius particular resources and conditions of its territory, uses his universal instrument
mode progress, giving its own local appearance, and is of the multiple and simultaneous application
so many forces which is the largest mixed harmony of civilization. Thus, all civilized peoples
have newspapers, ie, a common and universal instrument, but each giving them to their own style,
shape and tendency to reveal and will retain their appearance own personality. All travel by rail and
steam, but every village, as its nature and its territory, adopt the partial system that best
suits you, without thereby disappear or suffer the general harmony. Is not it very interesting
and beautiful this phenomenon? For my hand, in spite of pouring so many insults against materialism
and indifference of this century, I admire and bless him fortunate creation of the alliance between
cosmopolitanism human and personality of the people, and between this and the individual.

That the reader will disguise this digression, that I could not before telling him dispense Berne
to Thun, remote valley of the Aar the laughing central or sub-lacustrine, the traveler is subjugated
by the indefinable charm that holds the central Switzerland. The river meanders quickly as a vast
and tortuous vein lazuli between graceful and limpid scallops vegetables, the plains ripples
are developed in a thousand exquisite, the meadows, forests and plantations alternate ending and irregular
form as checkerboards, the hamlets, villages and the rustic cottages stand anywhere in picturesque
dissemination, and under a sky Summer, admirably serene in some days and more blue than the
lower regions Europe, it is contemplated with rapture that world of ice giants, a hotbed of
rivers and streams of lakes and waterfalls dotted formidable granite towers erected by the architect
invisible and divine, and encircled by broad bands of dark vegetation, terraces and amphitheater
admirable, called the Bernese Oberland.

In two hours we reached the town of Thun, sitting gracefully on the banks of the Aar at the
foot of a mountain or huge rock that has the most romantic appearance. It was not our encouragement
to stop at Thun, a town that has more than nine centuries of existence, and does not Interesting
by the trips to which they invite their vicinity. I will note only apropos of that place, where
we're only passing that having just 3,400 residents (all Reformed) has a library of over 7,000
volumes with many interesting manuscripts, excellent schools, a beautiful hospital and other similar
benefits. This is characteristic Switzerland, where the forms of how small are the best things
wherever of civilization, thanks to the inspiration that freedom has given the national genius,
and the spirit of emulation developed by federal and local autonomy of peoples.

       * * * * *

Aar in the port, located in the center of town, take the steamer which was to lead by the lake of
Thun to the picturesque interlacustrine isthmus where Unterseen delay and Interlaken. After a
few minutes of sailing up the river, in the midst of exquisite villas and banks and hotels
that dominate the two sides, we entered the lake. I confess I had no supreme idea of ​​semi-wild
beauty that develops on the narrow horizon the lake basin. Truth is that in Switzerland goes from
one surprise. The set seems have certain general forms which are summarized in mountains and
glaciers, rivers and lakes, waterfalls and streams, meadows and chalets, smiling and gracious countryside
towns and villages, and HOWEVER, no two objects of those who look like: a diversity of shapes
and forms is infinite, and this is precisely what the spell spreads
throughout Switzerland.

The lakes of Geneva and Neuchâtel we had found very beautiful and interesting in every respect;
but do not know what they are civilized, to regulate and rhythmic, which like a lot but not surprising.
In the lakes of Thun and Brienz is rough nature, somber and melancholy great. They feel the breath of refrigerators
more penetrating, the rumors are more pronounced; basins of the lakes have, let me the expression,
much personal and exclusive sovereignty original. And lakes Leman and Neuchâtel have a look
French, the Thun and I have German Brienz. Is easy to see, though not known, that the waters
of Leman are designed to irrigate a French country and lost in a southern sea or Latino, while Aare,
through romantic river, must bring his treasure into the Rhine, the great river Germanic and the
North Sea, as a symbol of the great and beautiful German race, dreamy,
individualistic profoundly original, semi-wild by nature and by its
lofty and misty spirit.

Lake Thun measured from its upper end on the island of Wissenau to the bottom, where magnificent
tree stands out among the elegant castle Schadau modern, long 18 ½ miles by 3.606 meters wide,
and has the most depth 234 meters. Its winds are variable but generally peaceful, its height
above sea level, 586 meters, and its waters are blue-green color very beautiful. In the Lake
of Thun and in that of Brienz is observed the same phenomenon of coloration in the Leman, albeit
in varying degrees. Indeed, in addition to 19 streams, almost all crystalline, which receives
the lake margins Thun, its flow is augmented by the left bank with highly turbid waters of the Kander
and Simmen together, something significant rivers that descend, through narrow gorges and narrow
valleys, refrigerators south of the Jungfrau group resplendent. But all these water murky as those
of the Aar in the upper region, they lose their ink Cinderella to
be confused in the magnificent granite bowl that transformed into
calm bluish emerald waves.

The show is quiet, rustic and completely awesome. Despite the irregularity contours, almost dominates
the whole extension of the lake from one end to another, and the traveler surprised that rides
the waves asleep on board a steam, liquid Valley Center, feel surrounded by the majesty of nature as
a whole pompous and alternately smiling or severe in its features. Stands around a ring of
steep cliffs, a staggered other blades together in powerful, high mountains and rough wrinkled
and huge bastions for titans. The basin is so tight that just reveals a piece of the sky, while
that between the open determined by the valley of the Aar is the
splendid mass of Jungfrau reverberating like a huge silver urn ....

But
this powerful ring of granite mountains that start from the waves
themselves, where bathing their feet to raise their crests and peaks
at a considerable height, it looks that all interested in that wild
and rugged combined with graceful and peaceful.

Above is looming sometimes the bald head of a formidable rock between large patches formed by spruce
forests that mimic the dark aisles of Gothic cathedrals. Below the appear at intervals slopes
covered with thick carpets of some fresh and prairie or is suddenly a deep narrow ravine beneath
which precipitates sour crags any stream, leaping from rock to rock in bright swirls of pearls
and giving away foam and breezes to his eternal concert wild rumors. Finally, towards the margins
are where hilarious like villages, a lake climbs like sentinels on some lean hill, another on
the same bank, numb to the sighs of the waves, the shadow of some huge boulder at the bottom
of a miniature little port where gently swaying some little boats with awnings blue fabrics.

No sound escapes from the villages where life seems to slip in eternal peace, in sweet quiet humility
of all ambition. So vivid is the contrast they make with sublime silence long, sharp whistles
of the steam valve, the approach to any port, the echoes of the music produced by a small band
of fans, and to board discussions among people of all countries and
different conditions, explaining impressions simultaneously in the
languages ​​of Cervantes and Voltaire, Milton and Goethe, Dante and
Camoes, in the midst of this landscape that has all the stamp of originality
eminently poetic solemnity and rustic ....

* * * * *

We landed at
Neuhaus, at a short distance from the mouth of the Aar, and there
we took a stroller which took us twenty minutes to Interlaken, through
Unterseen, located in the center Baedeli Valley, ie half of the isthmus
between Lakes Thun and Brienz.

Unterseen, small town of about 1,400 inhabitants, who then walks, no special offers no, but
are curious some of its old wooden houses in an area that time And the smoke of the homes
have become almost dark. It is at the top or the Faubourg Aarmuhle portion begins truly beautiful
valley, where the group is semi-palaces, shops and gardens funny called Interlaken (Entre-lakes).

It
seems as though what is more cultured and elegant among hikers in Europe had been scheduled to
go to meet for a few days every summer in this cute site, which looks like a piece of some
of these compounds elegant palaces and suburbs estates that are around London, Paris and Berlin.
In fact, since the output the suburb of Aarmuhle begins a beautiful
mall that is going to end up in the port of Lake Brienz vapors, consisting
of two rows of magnificent elms and walnuts, behind which extend lustrous
meadows and forming street stand three or four elegant hotel building
surrounded by gardens, terraces and pavilions of vegetables, hotels
that alternate in a long row of houses numerous artistic aspect, where
travelers perfumery shops are travel items, weapons and a great profusion
of small museums compound types of views and landscapes, alpine curiosities,
cut glass, domestic furniture toys and worked with wood, bone, ivory,
horn, etc., and curious samples of the embroidery and touched the
country.

       

Each of these hotels are always full of travelers that follow and constantly renewed, coming
from all parts of Europe and scattering in different directions, and the great mall and the gardens
and meadows overlooked circulating ceaselessly cheerful and handsome groups of travelers, and visiting
the shops to buy curios, and horseback riding lightweight strollers or on request of admirable
landscapes of the surrounding mountains, and making reciprocal visits, going to the rifle
shot, or going in the morning to the elegant House of conversation to take Zuera medicinal,
or in the evening to dance, fun, and often clump together, at times
advanced to the round the green folder, inevitable plague of almost
every fashion to sites in Europe during the summers.

It is curious contrast to the sleek form there with the peasants English dandies Bern, and the
lovely dresses of the daughters of the country, full of grace, candor and originality with the
pompous and splendid dresses of silk or rich who drag lawn there lionesses of London and Paris,
sweeping the floor with their tails pontifical, and offering the wind the solitary snowy field
to work with brio in the monumental crinolines. It has always said that men reveal eating and
playing, and indeed nothing is more self judging the European races, as a whole, that one of those
banquets or dinners table d'hôte offered by big hotels, especially in Interlaken, the banks
of the Aar, in the middle two beautiful lakes and at the majesty of mountains and glaciers
of the Oberland.

The table is very good and cheap in Interlaken, was splendidly served
at the hotel of Alps, where we were staying, and more than 150 people
had seats there.

There was talk in all languages ​​and even dialects, but English and French were in overwhelming
majority.

The British in particular have a particular predilection for Interlaken. The French tried policy
or related trips, laughing and talking loudly simplicity and almost all at once, but always
courteous, gallant and trying to please, by instinct and habit. The English, or kept a disdainful
silence, as if they were outside their area, or ate a lot and drank more, regardless of anyone
or worry about any gallantry, or talking on frivolous things deeply, but both wanted to be first
served in all cases and innocently pondered the whole dish taste
very nice with its inevitable which allows them to mud.

It is curious that the English throughout the foreign country privilege of watching, with reluctance,
all social, and find that everything is edible very nice and every physical object, even the most insignificant
stone, very beautiful indeed.

Anything we liked so much in these times common banquet table or funny as the type of women
who served, as in Interlaken service table is feminine and is banned fever garçons of prom dresses,
stiff and ceremonious as dandies kitchen. The pretty girl Bern that served the table where we
were had the most friendly and kind we recorded a lot of memory. That the reader allow me to
portray, and have an idea of countrywomen of Interlaken, the most
remarkable similar to those of the rest of the canton of Bern.

Bet the girl was younger than 22 to 24 years, simple, candid and very
helpful, middle height, blond hair almost yellow, oval face, thin
and pink, beautiful eyes dark blue, large and shy, delicate nose and
lovely mouth.

The complicated and elegant dress, which was the country, was composed of a very white muslin
shirt, no collar, gracefully folded on his chest, puffed sleeves with wide half of the arms; a
violet silk bodice trimmed with blue, buttoned front and very advanced downward, reaching only
to the height of the mid-chest and back, and fastened with chains silver in the form of calzonarias;
It was clear from the shoulders, by two pieces of silk blue covered them, and fell slopes to below
the waist on skirts very folded and nothing pompous, one species of brown-colored muslin, that
came out under the blouse. Add to that a nice blue stripes scarf tied around his neck as a
tie knot back, a natural pink lit the top of the bodice, a thick ribbon of beautiful braids
encircled by a wide black belt in a crown, two networks in black silk tied with ribbons arms
above the elbows, down to fists and showing the roundness and freshness
of those members, and finally wearing a pair of boots just two feet
dwarfs, add these details, I say, and you will have full attire of
a countrywoman of Interlaken.

* * * * *

Among several interesting excursions that can be made towards the snowy mountains, such as those
in Grindelwald, Lauterbrunnen, Kandersteg, etc., chose the first,
waiting, not without reason, to find varied and very pleasant impressions.

The road, which is highway, but difficult and very aware when climbing the mountains across the
valley, passing in front three or four villages surrounded by forests and orchards near the
foot of a hill still stand the ruins of the castle of Unspunnen, enters the narrow valley of
Lutschine, stream that descends to jumps, tormented and foaming over a bed of large rocks and
crags. Soon the valley narrows between steep, rugged mountains of wild aspect, where one hundred
excel magnificent jagged peaks between forests of fir, and the traveler rapture gazes on the proud
peaks of the Jungfrau [19], the Monch, the Eiger and the Wetterhorn.

[19] The young girl, named so because until 1811 no one could climb it and tread speech their snow-white.

Then
there is the confluence of two streams of the same name Lütschina called white one (Weisse), coming
down from the heights of Lauterbrunnen, and the other black (Schwarze) descending, the right
of the Eiger and its base of Grindelwald refrigerators. We spent noisy creek and began to climb
slowly above the right bank of Lütschina black, the slope leading to the high valley object
of our excursion. I confess I never in my life have I experienced such supreme happiness in those
moments. Had before and around all the beauties of a severe nature, wild and bombastic for
its Rumors and appearance, and fraught with endless dazzling poetry,
and to me, daydreaming like me, beloved wife, companion and guardian
angel of my life ....

The driver seemed invisible to us, we thought
that some force dragged us as if by magic: such was the delight of
our full contemplation of nature.

       How many Beings have done an admirable Switzerland happy!

We had entirely forgotten the company and its passions, their struggles, miseries and sorrows,
and just felt our souls soaked in love and that infinitely religious feeling is called the worship
of the beautiful and the sublime ....

The slope snails between rocky hills and in the middle of a narrow gorge formed by huge granite
rocks and bare, surrounded at their bases by ancient forests of fir. Here and there we found some
rustic chalet waiting for the fall alone hiciese returning residents, saw a patch of grass
or half hidden among the forests. At the bottom of the abyss the torrent roared, shaking her
hair and sparkling brown, angry and pressed against each rock that blocked the way to procure
a fall. And up ... wonderfully beautiful sky, like a lake Leman suspended in the atmosphere,
crowning and clothing of the snowy domes, which seemed the shining
thrones and severe the genius of Switzerland ....

When you reach
the undulating valley of Grindelwald, the scene changed dramatically,
offering a beautiful picture of contrasts.

We had dismounted from the front of the elegant lightweight stroller Eagle Hotel (Eiger) purely
national forms.

Behind us in the direction Lake Brienz, we had a formidable barrier of mountains and look almost
naked rude. To our left was extended towards the N.-E., which is called the valley, which is
a succession of inclined planes, rising to distant refrigerators, very rough and covered villages
and chalets in funny disorder, small meadows and many plantations of vegetables, fruit trees and
cereals. In front were displayed as two giants of the superb snow Eiger, to the south, rounded
at the base, and N.-E. the Mettenberg, taking in the middle, at the low, the bottom bar of Grindelwald,
descending to the bottom of the valley, and part Viescherhorner the snowy top, closing the horizon
like a huge glass strength or silver. Tempt around the town of Grindelwald, which has nearly 3,000
inhabitants (All renovated) and we halláiamos to 1.550 meters high,
almost in the center of the valley which is 20 miles long and 5 meters
wide.

The fridge we attracted him to the solemn fascination of her beauty, and gazed at a distance of 1.500
meters with infinite charm. A guide led us on foot to the first ice shelves. We wanted to
get close to the source or output Lütschina-black and penetrate Ice
caves, magnificent glass alcoves nature and mass produced the civilians
are responsible for refining to entice the curious traveler.

The show thickness output stream is really beautiful.
 She had looked at it a few moments and then--apparently--what she saw in it
had produced an explosion of dismay and resentment. She was too busy sobbing and the Colonel
was too busy holding her and reiterating his objurgation, to look round or look up. The scene
was so unexpected to Lyon that he could not take it, on the spot, as a proof of the triumph
of his hand--of a tremendous hit: he could only wonder what on earth was the matter. The idea
of the triumph came a little later. Yet he could see the portrait from where he stood; he was
startled with its look of life--he had not thought it so masterly. Mrs. Capadose flung herself
away from her husband--she dropped into the nearest chair, buried her face in her arms, leaning
on a table. Her weeping suddenly ceased to be audible, but she shuddered there as if she were
overwhelmed with anguish and shame. Her husband remained a moment staring at the picture; then
he went to her, bent over her, took hold of her again, soothed her. 'What is it, darling, what
the devil is it?' he demanded.

Lyon heard her answer. 'It's cruel--oh, it's too cruel!'

'Damn him--damn him--damn him!' the Colonel repeated.

'It's all there--it's all there!' Mrs. Capadose went on.

'Hang it, what's all there?'

'Everything there oughtn't to be--everything he has seen--it's too dreadful!'

'Everything he has seen? Why, ain't I a good-looking fellow? He has made me rather handsome.'

Mrs. Capadose had sprung up again; she had darted another glance at the painted betrayal. 'Handsome?
Hideous, hideous! Not that--never, never!'

'Not what, in heaven's name?' the Colonel almost shouted. Lyon could see his flushed, bewildered
face.

'What he has made of you--what you know! He knows--he has seen. Every one will know--every
one will see. Fancy that thing in the Academy!'

'You're going wild, darling; but if you hate it so it needn't go.'

'Oh, he'll send it--it's so good! Come away--come away!' Mrs. Capadose wailed, seizing her husband.

'It's so good?' the poor man cried.

'Come away--come away,' she only repeated; and she turned toward the staircase that ascended
to the gallery.

'Not that way--not through the house, in the state you're in,' Lyon heard the Colonel object.
'This way--we can pass,' he added; and he drew his wife to the small door that opened into
the garden. It was bolted, but he pushed the bolt and opened the door. She passed out quickly,
but he stood there looking back into the room. 'Wait for me a moment!' he cried out to her;
and with an excited stride he re-entered the studio. He came up to the picture again, and again
he stood looking at it. 'Damn him--damn him--damn him!' he broke out once more. It was not
clear to Lyon whether this malediction had for its object the original or the painter of the
portrait. The Colonel turned away and moved rapidly about the room, as if he were looking for
something; Lyon was unable for the instant to guess his intention. Then the artist said to
himself, below his breath, 'He's going to do it a harm!' His first impulse was to rush down
and stop him; but he paused, with the sound of Everina Brant's sobs still in his ears. The
Colonel found what he was looking for--found it among some odds and ends on a small table and
rushed back with it to the easel. At one and the same moment Lyon perceived that the object
he had seized was a small Eastern dagger and that he had plunged it into the canvas. He seemed
animated by a sudden fury, for with extreme vigour of hand he dragged the instrument down (Lyon
knew it to have no very fine edge) making a long, abominable gash. Then he plucked it out and
dashed it again several times into the face of the likeness, exactly as if he were stabbing
a human victim: it had the oddest effect--that of a sort of figurative suicide. In a few seconds
more the Colonel had tossed the dagger away--he looked at it as he did so, as if he expected
it to reek with blood--and hurried out of the place, closing the door after him.

The strangest part of all was--as will doubtless appear--that Oliver Lyon made no movement
to save his picture. But he did not feel as if he were losing it or cared not if he were, so
much more did he feel that he was gaining a certitude. His old friend was ashamed of her husband,
and he had made her so, and he had scored a great success, even though the picture had been
reduced to rags. The revelation excited him so--as indeed the whole scene did--that when he
came down the steps after the Colonel had gone he trembled with his happy agitation; he was
dizzy and had to sit down a moment. The portrait had a dozen jagged wounds--the Colonel literally
had hacked it to death. Lyon left it where it was, never touched it, scarcely looked at it;
he only walked up and down his studio, still excited, for an hour. At the end of this time
his good woman came to recommend that he should have some luncheon; there was a passage under
the staircase from the offices.

'Ah, the lady and gentleman have gone, sir? I didn't hear them.'

'Yes; they went by the garden.'

But she had stopped, staring at the picture on the easel. 'Gracious, how you 'ave served it, sir!'

Lyon imitated the Colonel. 'Yes, I cut it up--in a fit of disgust.'

'Mercy, after all your trouble! Because they weren't pleased, sir?'

'Yes; they weren't pleased.'

'Well, they must be very grand! Blessed if I would!'

'Have it chopped up; it will do to light fires,' Lyon said.

He returned to the country by the 3.30 and a few days later passed over to France. During the
two months that he was absent from England he expected something--he could hardly have said
what; a manifestation of some sort on the Colonel's part. Wouldn't he write, wouldn't he explain,
wouldn't he take for granted Lyon had discovered the way he had, as the cook said, served him
and deem it only decent to take pity in some fashion or other on his mystification? Would he
plead guilty or would he repudiate suspicion? The latter course would be difficult and make
a considerable draft upon his genius, in view of the certain testimony of Lyon's housekeeper,
who had admitted the visitors and would establish the connection between their presence and
the violence wrought. Would the Colonel proffer some apology or some amends, or would any word
from him be only a further expression of that destructive petulance which our friend had seen
his wife so suddenly and so potently communicate to him? He would have either to declare that
he had not touched the picture or to admit that he had, and in either case he would have to
tell a fine story. Lyon was impatient for the story and, as no letter came, disappointed that
it was not produced. His impatience however was much greater in respect to Mrs. Capadose's
version, if version there was to be; for certainly that would be the real test, would show
how far she would go for her husband, on the one side, or for him, Oliver Lyon, on the other.
He could scarcely wait to see what line she would take; whether she would simply adopt the
Colonel's, whatever it might be. He wanted to draw her out without waiting, to get an idea
in advance. He wrote to her, to this end, from Venice, in the tone of their established friendship,
asking for news, narrating his wanderings, hoping they should soon meet in town and not saying
a word about the picture. Day followed day, after the time, and he received no answer; upon
which he reflected that she couldn't trust herself to write--was still too much under the influence
of the emotion produced by his 'betrayal.' Her husband had espoused that emotion and she had
espoused the action he had taken in consequence of it, and it was a complete rupture and everything
was at an end. Lyon considered this prospect rather ruefully, at the same time that he thought
it deplorable that such charming people should have put themselves so grossly in the wrong.
He was at last cheered, though little further enlightened, by the arrival of a letter, brief
but breathing good-humour and hinting neither at a grievance nor at a bad conscience. The most
interesting part of it to Lyon was the postscript, which consisted of these words: 'I have
a confession to make to you. We were in town for a couple of days, the 1st of September, and
I took the occasion to defy your authority--it was very bad of me but I couldn't help it. I
made Clement take me to your studio--I wanted so dreadfully to see what you had done with him,
your wishes to the contrary notwithstanding. We made your servants let us in and I took a good
look at the picture. It is really wonderful!' 'Wonderful' was non-committal, but at least with
this letter there was no rupture.

The third day after Lyon's return to London was a Sunday, so that he could go and ask Mrs.
Capadose for luncheon. She had given him in the spring a general invitation to do so and he
had availed himself of it several times. These had been the occasions (before he sat to him)
when he saw the Colonel most familiarly. Directly after the meal his host disappeared (he went
out, as he said, to call on his women) and the second half-hour was the best, even when there
were other people. Now, in the first days of December, Lyon had the luck to find the pair alone,
without even Amy, who appeared but little in public. They were in the drawing-room, waiting
for the repast to be announced, and as soon as he came in the Colonel broke out, 'My dear fellow,
I'm delighted to see you! I'm so keen to begin again.'

'Oh, do go on, it's so beautiful,' Mrs. Capadose said, as she gave him her hand.

Lyon looked from one to the other; he didn't know what he had expected, but he had not expected
this. 'Ah, then, you think I've got something?'

'You've got everything,' said Mrs. Capadose, smiling from her golden-brown eyes.

'She wrote you of our little crime?' her husband asked. 'She dragged me there--I had to go.'
Lyon wondered for a moment whether he meant by their little crime the assault on the canvas;
but the Colonel's next words didn't confirm this interpretation. 'You know I like to sit--it
gives such a chance to my bavardise. And just now I have time.'

'You must remember I had almost finished,' Lyon remarked.

'So you had. More's the pity. I should like you to begin again.'

'My dear fellow, I shall have to begin again!' said Oliver Lyon with a laugh, looking at Mrs.
Capadose. She did not meet his eyes--she had got up to ring for luncheon. 'The picture has
been smashed,' Lyon continued.

'Smashed? Ah, what did you do that for?' Mrs. Capadose asked, standing there before him in
all her clear, rich beauty. Now that she looked at him she was impenetrable.

'I didn't--I found it so--with a dozen holes punched in it!'

'I say!' cried the Colonel.

Lyon turned his eyes to him, smiling. 'I hope you didn't do it?'

'Is it ruined?' the Colonel inquired. He was as brightly true as his wife and he looked simply
as if Lyon's question could not be serious. 'For the love of sitting to you? My dear fellow,
if I had thought of it I would!'

'Nor you either?' the painter demanded of Mrs. Capadose.

Before she had time to reply her husband had seized her arm, as if a highly suggestive idea
had come to him. 'I say, my dear, that woman--that woman!'

'That woman?' Mrs. Capadose repeated; and Lyon too wondered what woman he meant.

'Don't you remember when we came out, she was at the door--or a little way from it? I spoke
to you of her--I told you about her. Geraldine--Grenadine--the one who burst in that day,'
he explained to Lyon. 'We saw her hanging about--I called Everina's attention to her.'

'Do you mean she got at my picture?'

'Ah yes, I remember,' said Mrs. Capadose, with a sigh.

'She burst in again--she had learned the way--she was waiting for her chance,' the Colonel
continued. 'Ah, the little brute!'

Lyon looked down; he felt himself colouring. This was what he had been waiting for--the day
the Colonel should wantonly sacrifice some innocent person. And could his wife be a party to
that final atrocity? Lyon had reminded himself repeatedly during the previous weeks that when
the Colonel perpetrated his misdeed she had already quitted the room; but he had argued none
the less--it was a virtual certainty--that he had on rejoining her immediately made his achievement
plain to her. He was in the flush of performance; and even if he had not mentioned what he
had done she would have guessed it. He did not for an instant believe that poor Miss Geraldine
had been hovering about his door, nor had the account given by the Colonel the summer before
of his relations with this lady deceived him in the slightest degree. Lyon had never seen her
before the day she planted herself in his studio; but he knew her and classified her as if
he had made her. He was acquainted with the London female model in all her varieties--in every
phase of her development and every step of her decay. When he entered his house that September
morning just after the arrival of his two friends there had been no symptoms whatever, up and
down the road, of Miss Geraldine's reappearance. That fact had been fixed in his mind by his
recollecting the vacancy of the prospect when his cook told him that a lady and a gentleman
were in his studio: he had wondered there was not a carriage nor a cab at his door. Then he
had reflected that they would have come by the underground railway; he was close to the Marlborough
Road station and he knew the Colonel, coming to his sittings, more than once had availed himself
of that convenience. 'How in the world did she get in?' He addressed the question to his companions
indifferently.

'Let us go down to luncheon,' said Mrs. Capadose, passing out of the room.

'We went by the garden--without troubling your servant--I wanted to show my wife.' Lyon followed
his hostess with her husband and the Colonel stopped him at the top of the stairs. 'My dear
fellow, I can't have been guilty of the folly of not fastening the door?'

'I am sure I don't know, Colonel,' Lyon said as they went down. 'It was a very determined hand--a
perfect wild-cat.'

'Well, she is a wild-cat--confound her! That's why I wanted to get him away from her.'

'But I don't understand her motive.'

'She's off her head--and she hates me; that was her motive.'

'But she doesn't hate me, my dear fellow!' Lyon said, laughing.

'She hated the picture--don't you remember she said so? The more portraits there are the less
employment for such as her.'

'Yes; but if she is not really the model she pretends to be, how can that hurt her?' Lyon asked.

The inquiry baffled the Colonel an instant--but only an instant. 'Ah, she was in a vicious
muddle! As I say, she's off her head.'

They went into the dining-room, where Mrs. Capadose was taking her place. 'It's too bad, it's
too horrid!' she said. 'You see the fates are against you. Providence won't let you be so disinterested--painting
masterpieces for nothing.'

'Did you see the woman?' Lyon demanded, with something like a sternness that he could not mitigate.

Mrs. Capadose appeared not to perceive it or not to heed it if she did. 'There was a person,
not far from your door, whom Clement called my attention to. He told me something about her
but we were going the other way.'

'And do you think she did it?'

'How can I tell? If she did she was mad, poor wretch.'

'I should like very much to get hold of her,' said Lyon. This was a false statement, for he
had no desire for any further conversation with Miss Geraldine. He had exposed his friends
to himself, but he had no desire to expose them to any one else, least of all to themselves.

'Oh, depend upon it she will never show again. You're safe!' the Colonel exclaimed.

'But I remember her address--Mortimer Terrace Mews, Notting Hill.'

'Oh, that's pure humbug; there isn't any such place.'

'Lord, what a deceiver!' said Lyon.

'Is there any one else you suspect?' the Colonel went on.

'Not a creature.'

'And what do your servants say?'

'They say it wasn't them, and I reply that I never said it was. That's about the substance
of our conferences.'

'And when did they discover the havoc?'

'They never discovered it at all. I noticed it first--when I came back.'

'Well, she could easily have stepped in,' said the Colonel. 'Don't you remember how she turned
up that day, like the clown in the ring?'

'Yes, yes; she could have done the job in three seconds, except that the picture wasn't out.'

'My dear fellow, don't curse me!--but of course I dragged it out.'

'You didn't put it back?' Lyon asked tragically.

'Ah, Clement, Clement, didn't I tell you to?' Mrs. Capadose exclaimed in a tone of exquisite
reproach.

The Colonel groaned, dramatically; he covered his face with his hands. His wife's words were
for Lyon the finishing touch; they made his whole vision crumble--his theory that she had secretly
kept herself true. Even to her old lover she wouldn't be so! He was sick; he couldn't eat;
he knew that he looked very strange. He murmured something about it being useless to cry over
spilled milk--he tried to turn the conversation to other things. But it was a horrid effort
and he wondered whether they felt it as much as he. He wondered all sorts of things: whether
they guessed he disbelieved them (that he had seen them of course they would never guess);
whether they had arranged their story in advance or it was only an inspiration of the moment;
whether she had resisted, protested, when the Colonel proposed it to her, and then had been
borne down by him; whether in short she didn't loathe herself as she sat there. The cruelty,
the cowardice of fastening their unholy act upon the wretched woman struck him as monstrous--no
less monstrous indeed than the levity that could make them run the risk of her giving them,
in her righteous indignation, the lie. Of course that risk could only exculpate her and not
inculpate them--the probabilities protected them so perfectly; and what the Colonel counted
on (what he would have counted upon the day he delivered himself, after first seeing her, at
the studio, if he had thought about the matter then at all and not spoken from the pure spontaneity
of his genius) was simply that Miss Geraldine had really vanished for ever into her native
unknown. Lyon wanted so much to quit the subject that when after a little Mrs. Capadose said
to him, 'But can nothing be done, can't the picture be repaired? You know they do such wonders
in that way now,' he only replied, 'I don't know, I don't care, it's all over, n'en parlons
plus!' Her hypocrisy revolted him. And yet, by way of plucking off the last veil of her shame,
he broke out to her again, shortly afterward, 'And you did like it, really?' To which she returned,
looking him straight in his face, without a blush, a pallor, an evasion, 'Oh, I loved it!'
Truly her husband had trained her well. After that Lyon said no more and his companions forbore
temporarily to insist, like people of tact and sympathy aware that the odious accident had
made him sore.

When they quitted the table the Colonel went away without coming upstairs; but Lyon returned
to the drawing-room with his hostess, remarking to her however on the way that he could remain
but a moment. He spent that moment--it prolonged itself a little--standing with her before
the chimney-piece. She neither sat down nor asked him to; her manner denoted that she intended
to go out. Yes, her husband had trained her well; yet Lyon dreamed for a moment that now he
was alone with her she would perhaps break down, retract, apologise, confide, say to him, 'My
dear old friend, forgive this hideous comedy--you understand!' And then how he would have loved
her and pitied her, guarded her, helped her always! If she were not ready to do something of
that sort why had she treated him as if he were a dear old friend; why had she let him for
months suppose certain things--or almost; why had she come to his studio day after day to sit
near him on the pretext of her child's portrait, as if she liked to think what might have been?
Why had she come so near a tacit confession, in a word, if she was not willing to go an inch
further? And she was not willing--she was not; he could see that as he lingered there. She
moved about the room a little, rearranging two or three objects on the tables, but she did
nothing more. Suddenly he said to her: 'Which way was she going, when you came out?'

'She--the woman we saw?'

'Yes, your husband's strange friend. It's a clew worth following.' He had no desire to frighten
her; he only wanted to communicate the impulse which would make her say, 'Ah, spare me--and
spare him! There was no such person.'

Instead of this Mrs. Capadose replied, 'She was going away from us--she crossed the road. We
were coming towards the station.'

'And did she appear to recognise the Colonel--did she look round?'

'Yes; she looked round, but I didn't notice much. A hansom came along and we got into it. It
was not till then that Clement told me who she was: I remember he said that she was there for
no good. I suppose we ought to have gone back.'

'Yes; you would have saved the picture.'

For a moment she said nothing; then she smiled. 'For you, I am very sorry. But you must remember
that I possess the original!'

At this Lyon turned away. 'Well, I must go,' he said; and he left her without any other farewell
and made his way out of the house. As he went slowly up the street the sense came back to him
of that first glimpse of her he had had at Stayes--the way he had seen her gaze across the
table at her husband. Lyon stopped at the corner, looking vaguely up and down. He would never
go back--he couldn't. She was still in love with the Colonel--he had trained her too well.

MRS. TEMPERLY

I

'Why, Cousin Raymond, how can you suppose? Why, she's only sixteen!'

'She told me she was seventeen,' said the young man, as if it made a great difference.

'Well, only just!' Mrs. Temperly replied, in the tone of graceful, reasonable concession.

'Well, that's a very good age for me. I'm very young.'

'You are old enough to know better,' the lady remarked, in her soft, pleasant voice, which
always drew the sting from a reproach, and enabled you to swallow it as you would a cooked
plum, without the stone. 'Why, she hasn't finished her education!'

'That's just what I mean,' said her interlocutor. 'It would finish it beautifully for her to
marry me.'

'Have you finished yours, my dear?' Mrs. Temperly inquired. 'The way you young people talk
about marrying!' she exclaimed, looking at the itinerant functionary with the long wand who
touched into a flame the tall gas-lamp on the other side of the Fifth Avenue. The pair were
standing, in the recess of a window, in one of the big public rooms of an immense hotel, and
the October day was turning to dusk.

'Well, would you have us leave it to the old?' Raymond asked. 'That's just what I think--she
would be such a help to me,' he continued. 'I want to go back to Paris to study more. I have
come home too soon. I don't know half enough; they know more here than I thought. So it would
be perfectly easy, and we should all be together.'

'Well, my dear, when you do come back to Paris we will talk about it,' said Mrs. Temperly,
turning away from the window.

'I should like it better, Cousin Maria, if you trusted me a little more,' Raymond sighed, observing
that she was not really giving her thoughts to what he said. She irritated him somehow; she
was so full of her impending departure, of her arrangements, her last duties and memoranda.
She was not exactly important, any more than she was humble; she was too conciliatory for the
one and too positive for the other. But she bustled quietly and gave one the sense of being
'up to' everything; the successive steps of her enterprise were in advance perfectly clear
to her, and he could see that her imagination (conventional as she was she had plenty of that
faculty) had already taken up its abode on one of those fine premiers which she had never seen,
but which by instinct she seemed to know all about, in the very best part of the quarter of
the Champs Elysées. If she ruffled him envy had perhaps something to do with it: she was to
set sail on the morrow for the city of his affection and he was to stop in New York, where
the fact that he was but half pleased did not alter the fact that he had his studio on his
hands and that it was a bad one (though perhaps as good as any use he should put it to), which
no one would be in a hurry to relieve him of.

It was easy for him to talk to Mrs. Temperly in that airy way about going back, but he couldn't
go back unless the old gentleman gave him the means. He had already given him a great many
things in the past, and with the others coming on (Marian's marriage-outfit, within three months,
had cost literally thousands), Raymond had not at present the face to ask for more. He must
sell some pictures first, and to sell them he must first paint them. It was his misfortune
that he saw what he wanted to do so much better than he could do it. But he must really try
and please himself--an effort that appeared more possible now that the idea of following Dora
across the ocean had become an incentive. In spite of secret aspirations and even intentions,
however, it was not encouraging to feel that he made really no impression at all on Cousin
Maria. This certitude was so far from agreeable to him that he almost found it in him to drop
the endearing title by which he had hitherto addressed her. It was only that, after all, her
husband had been distantly related to his mother. It was not as a cousin that he was interested
in Dora, but as something very much more intimate. I know not whether it occurred to him that
Mrs. Temperly herself would never give his displeasure the benefit of dropping the affectionate
form. She might shut her door to him altogether, but he would always be her kinsman and her
dear. She was much addicted to these little embellishments of human intercourse--the friendly
apostrophe and even the caressing hand--and there was something homely and cosy, a rustic,
motherly bonhomie, in her use of them. She was as lavish of them as she was really careful
in the selection of her friends.

She stood there with her hand in her pocket, as if she were feeling for something; her little
plain, pleasant face was presented to him with a musing smile, and he vaguely wondered whether
she were fumbling for a piece of money to buy him off from wishing to marry her daughter. Such
an idea would be quite in keeping with the disguised levity with which she treated his state
of mind. Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor or against any religion, I can
say that without any notable exception, I have observed in all cities Switzerland a clear contrast
with respect to the mercenary, the messiness, the situation of the establishments and customs, and public
instruction of the masses. The Protestant cantons supplied to an insignificant number of despots,
as mercenaries, the vast Most or almost all of these ever left the Catholic cantons. Does the
Protestantism is favorable to liberty and maintains and promotes a sense of dignity personal?
I think so, judging from the facts I have observed in many European states, corresponding to
different races and religions.

As for the taste or instinct for cleanliness and decency, I have seen in Switzerland (and later
I will note the same for other countries) the contrast between twelve of the capital of counties
that I visited. In the series of cities we visited from Geneva to Schaffhausen, through Lausanne, Neuchâtel,
Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Altorf, Zug and district in Zurich, and from Saint-Gall to Basel, we
have seen, however, the alternation where are these cities, because of their religious beliefs,
this difference: in Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Bern, district in Zurich, St. Gallen, Basel and
Schaffhausen, Protestant cities, decency, cleanliness and care in all public affairs, in Fribourg,
Lucerne and Zug Altorf, slovenliness, carelessness on the masses and streets, lack or shortage
of taste. The same contrast offered by the Swiss cities regarding a popular instruction, to the situation
of the public and to the demonstrations activity and progress as summarized in the customs, industry
and institutions whatever the races subject to observation. In the central region of Switzerland,
dominating perfectly homogeneous territory in its appearance, its products, etc., and favored by
an equal autonomy, I have seen a string of cities from Lake Geneva to the Rhine linked in
this order: Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Zug, Zurich. In these cities
the first three and the fourth and eighth are reformed, and in them are: industrial and commercial
activities, worship arts, great development of the instruction, clear liberalism in institutions,
beauty, dedication to public affairs, significant traditions and forward and request for charitable
purposes, the contrary, in the rest of the cities mentioned which are Catholic and monastic institutions
have been numerous, all concur to express a clear inferiority relative trends quietism, the carelessness,
the routine and filth. It may be that these phenomena have another explanation, but so far I
think materialism of certain practices, the spirit of passive obedience and the example of laziness
given by the monastic communities, account for much of the differences noticeable in the breeds
within a homogeneous territory they occupy.

The history of the canton of Lucerne, whose name, as is well known,
from the ancient beacon (Lucerne in Italian) shone in a city tower,
built in the middle of Reuss and called the Tower-of-water (Wasserthurm)
- that story, I say, is simple and summarized all in the city, like
all Swiss cantons.

A convent or abbey founded to the late seventh century by a feudal lord or owner of the country,
was the core of the current city. Transferred in the eighth century by the Frankish king Pepin
the Short to the abbots of Murbach, one of these later sold, with other districts adjacent to
the Emperor Rudolf of Habsburg. Lucerne in 1332, after holding as vassal various struggles
against the three confederated cantons that were the core of the great confederation, entered
into alliance with them, fought Austria and secured its independence. The domination of the
city of Lucerne on all the city was absolutely and entirely aristocratic institutions. The French invasion
of 1798 changed deeply the situation, but the reaction of 1815 restored the old institutions. The democratic
cause to triumph again in 1831, to suffer further setbacks in 40 and 42 but thanks to the
radical revolution that destroyed the Sonderbund 48, entered the Canton in general via drawn by
the public law of the Confederation.

However, private institutions are still very far from democratic, but apparently the sovereignty
resides in the people. The government is run by a Grand Council (Legislative body) of 100 deputies
of long duration, of which (by a strange combination I have not found
in any other country) 80 are elected by the electors and 20 The 80
deputies, and by a Small-Council (Kleine-Rath) composed of 15 members
charged the Executive, elected every three years by the Groose-Rath,
or grand council.

The Court Supreme consists of 13 judges elected by the Council. The Canton is divided into five
circuits or Amts, which have municipal councils and municipal districts are subdivided into
(Gemeinde) administered by officials only.

The population of the canton of Lucerne is German only by the dominant race and language, and
almost entirely Catholic. In 1850 there were 132.843 inhabitants, of which only 1.563 reformed.
In 1860 the population had dropped to 130.965 individuals. The decrease depends entirely of emigration.
The Canton remains the only Roman Catholicism the state religion. Account on its soil more than 15,000
homes, has a total area of ​​1.540 square kilometers and measured
in its greatest length 50 miles and 41 in the higher latitudes.

Most of its territory consists of fertile and picturesque valleys crossed by tributaries of the
Aar, such as the Reuss The Marienthal, the Viggen, the Suren, the Winen, etc. Besides the lake of
Four Cantons that participates significantly, and about three or four small lakes microscopic
encloses Sempach and Baldeg and a small part of the Halwyl, which are navigable. The main
products of Canton are agricultural: grains, plants, cattle and calves filamentous; in your
industry are notable only some cotton fabrics, linen and hemp and the manufacture of cider.

* * * * *

The navigation of the Lake of Four Cantons, to board one of the many steamers that Lucerne depart every
hour, in different directions, is one of the most entertaining. From which runs through the
center of the star lakeside called Kreuztrichter, and passed through
in Kirsiten Woegis through and, having left the coast of the canton
of Schwyz and to the right that of the Unterwalden, everything changes
in appearance and acquires the stamp of majesty and beauty wild.

       Are no longer rolling hills, villas and Verjel happy, but immense
walls formidable rocks, perpendicular, which seem to threaten to collapse
suddenly and case blue-green waves like a cup of the most profound
and varied foreign relief inks.

Small populations appear at the foot of the mountains or climbing on the rocks, as forms of fantasy
or whim that hang over the abyss.

Two promontories that are advanced from opposite sides toward each other, determine a narrow a little
more than a mile wide. The vapor then penetrates into the pit they call "lake Buochs, "leaving
behind of Kreuztrichter, and the basin is developed as a huge pond, closing the horizon on all
sides and full of magnificence. West excel in their rocky and dark frames vegetation districts Beggenried
Buochs ​​and to the east, Gersau village of the canton of Schwyz whose political history is
one of the sights of Switzerland. Where like the mountains offer the most beautiful contrasts,
either by its geological formations, either by their vegetation.

Green patch of grass interspersed with dense forests of fir stout; rough landslides our next great
perpendicular rocks that look like one piece, and magnificent stratification, more or less naked,
some horizontal and thin layers, sometimes leaning in different directions and made up of powerful
banks. Such seems as if a legion of Titans had built there, to climb the sky, a swarm colossal
fortifications of different shapes, overlapping the layers of rocks as a masonry wall, and land
a tremendous commotion had then deranged these buildings destroyed and turned into a thousand
moles titanic discordant and terrifying. Wherever the waves of Lake swaying waist oppressed
by mountains - naked rough and fearful below, green in the center, majestic in all its forms,
and steep proud to be divided into deformed peaks and domes, above which are reverberating
the distant peaks of Nidwalden and Uri.

Gersau, as I said, is a historical curiosity. There he excelled at one time the smallest democratic
republic, independent and sovereign nation that has ever existed in the world. The landscape
offered by the humble village, sitting in his llanurita of alluvial and dominated by its beautiful
church, is as cheerful as rare in that river of rocks. Today it has about 1.600 inhabitants
Catholics. Subjected to various dominations to the fourteenth century, and then mortgaged as
a farm, rescued in 1390, after having made an alliance with the three original cantons of the
confederation. From mid-fifteenth century, in full possession of all his rights, was a republic Gersau
sovereign until the end of the eighteenth century, "about 900 people
strong around sex, age and condition, between rulers and ruled, army,
navy "and other paraphernalia of a nation.

The wars of the French Revolution and subsequent events upset the peaceful nationality Gersau,
and after unsuccessful efforts in 1814 and 1846 to regain their independence, the republic was
annexed microscopic definitely the canton of Schwyz. Leaving the joke to one side, I confess that
I have found nothing as sublime as the history of the village rustic shepherds. Never in so little
was seen as large and represented the beginning sacred as the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.

Another
very steep hill, that of Treib, narrow lake basin, facing the Muottas confluence and the village of
Brunnen, and giving a half turn, the steam enters the river or lake of Uri, looking much more
even than great .-- Buochs ​​Brunnen is the port the canton of Schwyz in that direction, while
the Art is at the southern end of Lake Zug. Steam Flüelen led us directly to the port of the canton
of Uri, leaving see step Grütli eminence, later the curious Chapel of William Tell, and where like, on
the rocks slices, a swarm of obelisks and pyramids of basaltic and unique aspect inks. What is called
Grütli is a meadow surrounded by woods, which crowns a high hill located on the promontory of
Wylenstein root. There is a solitary house the curious visitors, and near three sources that
belong to the poetic legend independence or William Tell. It was on that site that met on December
8 da 1307, in the absence of William who was arrested, the three
famous patriots of the cantons of Uri, Schwyz and Nidwalden that link
vowed to fight the tyranny of Gessler or the house of Austria and
found the federal independence.

Tell's Chapel, featuring high and just veneration in the country, not for what it is, but the traditions
that evokes, is a temple shaped open arch built on a rock and almost to the level of the lake,
framed by fir trees and under rocks. The waves hit the stands Tellenplatte giving access to,
and sometimes the foam going to go away at the foot of two stone altars that adorn the interior.
The walls and ceiling are more pidgin fresh style representing various passages in the history of emancipation.
Every year, on a fixed day, a Mass is said there in commemoration of the events evoked; and
ensures that the chapel was opened for 114 individuals who met in person to William Tell. The
reason for the erection of the monument is a tradition that I remember seeing translated a
slice of colors, in a shelter of my country when I was nine years. William Gessler prisoner,
on board a boat, a few hours after the ordeal of apple, succeeded, thanks to a sudden storm, which
liquefies it to direct the boat. Passing by the foot of the rock on which stands the chapel,
he jumped to the ground, escaped and Gessler was to wait on average
between Küssnach isthmus and Lake Zug, at the foot of Mount Righi,
where he managed to kill him, freeing his country and taking revenge
for the cruelties suffered.

Some travelers, passing in front of the monuments dedicated to the memory of William Tell, the
Swiss tease and described as fable all that relates to the heroic legend the release of the three-cantons,
and much has been said in a check, is general the opinion that this character did not exist.
The Swiss are offended a lot of that, and have reason. For my part, I believe in William Tell as freedom,
patriotism and glory. Neither the hero was in itself nothing great, nothing that was not natural
and understandable, and there is no reason to reject the authenticity of a legend is that of all free
people, with differences of detail and style. Anyway, people who know how to maintain the worship of
such epics reveals solid virtues and is worthy of freedom.

The great mountain of Rigi is not only interesting point of view that dominates a huge and wonderful
panorama: it is also for the particular circumstance of being the center cantons or small
independent states which formed the nucleus to the Confederation, while the center of a lovely
region of lakes and mountains, which are grouped wonderful variety
and harmony of shapes and forms.

Indeed, the N.-O. and O. Mount Rigi extend along the shores of Lake of Four Cantons Lucerne and
territories Unterwalden, I just described rapidly to the south, the canton of Uri, the E. that
of Schwyz, enclosing the lake funny Lauerz or Lowerz and riparian of Zug, and Vier-Waldstatt district
in Zurich; to N.-E. and N., the canton of Zug, which owns most of the lake of the same name
and all that of Egeria.

It is curious that, with the exception of the canton of Lucerne, is at around Mount Rigi and on the
banks of the series of lakes which are the smallest and oldest cantons Switzerland, - especially
for its small population and resources - which have been the cradle
of free Swiss Confederation, giving up his name, and those who, through
all revolutions and political fortunes have continued with more purity
and power two social forms in almost around the world have appeared
as contradictory after the eighth century, to wit: Catholicism Roman
and democratic republic.

We have seen what the political and social organization Obwalden and Nidwalden: now shall indicate
the main features of that organization in the cantons of Uri, Schwyz and Zug, which I have
drawn much attention despite the extreme speed that toured parts of their territories.

In vapor descended Flüelen we had brought from Lucerne from one extreme to another the magnificent
lake. Flüelen is worthless as the location: it is a miserable village 600 inhabitants, whose
importance is only in the advantage of being the commercial port the canton of Uri and the tip
of the Gran Via setentrional that, up the valley of the Reuss Italy is going to look at the lakes Maggiore
and Lugano, passing by the famous St. Gotthard neck, Strategic so much attention in times of
war or European distrust.

The basin enclosed by the formidable barrier of mountains east through the St. Gotthard is
directed towards the magnificent Mont-Rose refrigerators, and that the tour to the West Furka
in the direction the group Grand Titlis, constitutes the entire canton of Uri, the first of
the Confederation in the range of seniority or of Chancery. This beautiful valley, dominated for so great
mountains and ice, hydrographic center is the small river Reuss which flow the waters of six or
seven streams that bathe as many valleys nearly parallel each other, to either side, transverse
or perpendicular to the Reuss. It is in this series high valleys which is distributed the very
small population of Uri, rough population mountaineers and shepherds, free, independent, simple, naive
and deeply attached his beloved barren soil and religious traditions, social and political.

A modest car repulsive movements led us through the damp and gloomy valley, forty minutes to
the famous city of Altorf, capital of Canton, where he won William Tell immortality in the famous
feat of apple and arrow. The sad and very poor capital the sovereign state of Uri delay in
the valley at the foot of the looming mass of Grumberg, and having on one side the Reuss, otherwise
the Schachoenbach, its tributary, and the nearby north lakeside. The appearance of the sad and desolate
streets, and wherever they are ruined that show how the city has been slow to recover from the
terrible fire that engulfed in 1799. Despite the pride with which residents say its beautiful cathedral
(which is not without some significant internal objects) and four or more convents, which have
however interesting the Capuchin (they say is the oldest of all Switzerland), in spite that, say,
Altorf with 2.150 inhabitants, its silence and stillness and misery, no matter the traveler but
for the memories alive with fountains commemorating the heroism William Tell, and the tower
of unusual appearance, rising on Main Street.

One such source is located in the terrible place where he put the child Gessler William for
this pierce with an arrow an apple placed on the head of the innocent child. The fountain is crowned
by a statue of heroic patriot with a flag in his hand.

A little more than a hundred yards the other source is the group of William and his son. William
condemned to the ordeal, which could cost as expensive but that gave him freedom necessary to
serve their country, close to his heart the fruit of his love, shows halberd under one arm, and
looks up with pride, trusting in God and holiness of their cause. Is beyond the tower of simple shapes,
painted on the outside with fresh depicting the story of William. The street was deserted, and
the three monuments nothing worth to our eyes as works of art, nor do we remember an epic that
could be interested personally. HOWEVER And we felt deeply moved. There were so eloquently in
monuments such as vulgar execution, such candor on them worship the lowly taxed Altorf and poor
residents and many reasons to understand the value of this sublime virtue called patriotism!
... The immortality of a name and a legend to so many through centuries, and that two rough
eloquence of statues in the back of a poor Swiss Valley - immortality understood and deeply felt
eloquence of two souls traveling born in the heart of the Andes - is not were the best proof
that patriotism is not a delusion but a great virtue, a religion,
and the glory is not an illusion, but an eternal halo of the great
characters and free people?

* * * * *

The proportions of the canton of Uri are rather small. State never offered any better evidence
that was no idle promise of Christ: the first shall be last and the last be the first. Uri,
the first State of the Confederation in the order of admission, is the latest by their wealth or
production and its population: this scarcely exceeds 14.700 inhabitants, all Catholics who
speak the German language very adulterated, the same as those of Nidwalden, Schwyz and Zug.
The humble HOWEVER canton is superior to another ten cantons, as to the extension territorial, measuring
an area of ​​1.092 square kilometers, taking in the extra length (From south to north) 25 miles,
and its greatest width 43. Canton is the visibly poor, in spite of its numerous valleys, some
quite warm, and have the international via Saint-Gothard.
 It seemed to him almost that she
had falsified a prophecy, instead of bringing one to pass. He had foretold that she would be
like this; the only difference was that she was so much more like it. She made no inquiries
about his arrival, his people in America, his plans; and they exchanged vague remarks about
the pictures, quite as if they had met for the first time.

When Cousin Maria came in Effie was standing in front of the fire fastening a bracelet, and
he was at a distance gazing in silence at a portrait of his hostess by Bastien-Lepage. One
of his apprehensions had been that Cousin Maria would allude ironically to the difference there
had been between his threat (because it had been really almost a threat) of following them
speedily to Paris and what had in fact occurred; but he saw in a moment how superficial this
calculation had been. Besides, when had Cousin Maria ever been ironical? She treated him as
if she had seen him last week (which did not preclude kindness), and only expressed her regret
at having missed his visit the day before, in consequence of which she had immediately written
to him to come and dine. He might have come from round the corner, instead of from New York
and across the wintry ocean. This was a part of her 'cosiness,' her friendly, motherly optimism,
of which, even of old, the habit had been never to recognise nor allude to disagreeable things;
so that to-day, in the midst of so much that was not disagreeable, the custom would of course
be immensely confirmed.

Raymond was perfectly aware that it was not a pleasure, even for her, that, for several years
past, things should have gone so ill in New York with his family and himself. His father's
embarrassments, of which Marian's silly husband had been the cause and which had terminated
in general ruin and humiliation, to say nothing of the old man's 'stroke' and the necessity,
arising from it, for a renunciation on his own part of all present thoughts of leaving home
again and even for a partial relinquishment of present work, the old man requiring so much
of his personal attention--all this constituted an episode which could not fail to look sordid
and dreary in the light of Mrs. Temperly's high success. The odour of success was in the warm,
slightly heavy air, which seemed distilled from rare old fabrics, from brocades and tapestries,
from the deep, mingled tones of the pictures, the subdued radiance of cabinets and old porcelain
and the jars of winter roses standing in soft circles of lamp-light. Raymond felt himself in
the presence of an effect in regard to which he remained in ignorance of the cause--a mystery
that required a key. Cousin Maria's success was unexplained so long as she simply stood there
with her little familiar, comforting, upward gaze, talking in coaxing cadences, with exactly
the same manner she had brought ten years ago from California, to a tall, bald, bending, smiling
young man, evidently a foreigner, who had just come in and whose name Raymond had not caught
from the lips of the maître d'hôtel. Was he just one of themselves--was he there for Effie,
or perhaps even for Dora? The unexplained must preponderate till Dora came in; he found he
counted upon her, even though in her letters (it was true that for the last couple of years
they had come but at long intervals) she had told him so little about their life. She never
spoke of people; she talked of the books she read, of the music she had heard or was studying
(a whole page sometimes about the last concert at the Conservatoire), the new pictures and
the manner of the different artists.

When she entered the room three or four minutes after the arrival of the young foreigner, with
whom her mother conversed in just the accents Raymond had last heard at the hotel in the Fifth
Avenue (he was obliged to admit that she gave herself no airs; it was clear that her success
had not gone in the least to her head); when Dora at last appeared she was accompanied by Mademoiselle
Bourde. The presence of this lady--he didn't know she was still in the house--Raymond took
as a sign that they were really dining en famille, so that the young man was either an actual
or a prospective intimate. Dora shook hands first with her cousin, but he watched the manner
of her greeting with the other visitor and saw that it indicated extreme friendliness--on the
part of the latter. If there was a charming flush in her cheek as he took her hand, that was
the remainder of the colour that had risen there as she came toward Raymond. It will be seen
that our young man still had an eye for the element of fascination, as he used to regard it,
in this quiet, dimly-shining maiden.

He saw that Effie was the only one who had changed (Tishy remained yet to be judged), except
that Dora really looked older, quite as much older as the number of years had given her a right
to: there was as little difference in her as there was in her mother. Not that she was like
her mother, but she was perfectly like herself. Her meeting with Raymond was bright, but very
still; their phrases were awkward and commonplace, and the thing was mainly a contact of looks--conscious,
embarrassed, indirect, but brightening every moment with old familiarities. Her mother appeared
to pay no attention, and neither, to do her justice, did Mademoiselle Bourde, who, after an
exchange of expressive salutations with Raymond began to scrutinise Effie with little admiring
gestures and smiles. She surveyed her from head to foot; she pulled a ribbon straight; she
was evidently a flattering governess. Cousin Maria explained to Cousin Raymond that they were
waiting for one more friend--a very dear lady. 'But she lives near, and when people live near
they are always late--haven't you noticed that?'

'Your hotel is far away, I know, and yet you were the first,' Dora said, smiling to Raymond.

'Oh, even if it were round the corner I should be the first--to come to you!' the young man
answered, speaking loud and clear, so that his words might serve as a notification to Cousin
Maria that his sentiments were unchanged.

'You are more French than the French,' Dora returned.

'You say that as if you didn't like them: I hope you don't,' said Raymond, still with intentions
in regard to his hostess.

'We like them more and more, the more we see of them,' this lady interposed; but gently, impersonally,
and with an air of not wishing to put Raymond in the wrong.

'Mais j'espère bien!' cried Mademoiselle Bourde, holding up her head and opening her eyes very
wide. 'Such friendships as we form, and, I may say, as we inspire! Je m'en rapporte à Effie',
the governess continued.

'We have received immense kindness; we have established relations that are so pleasant for
us, Cousin Raymond. We have the entrée of so many charming homes,' Mrs. Temperly remarked.

'But ours is the most charming of all; that I will say,' exclaimed Mademoiselle Bourde. 'Isn't
it so, Effie?'

'Oh yes, I think it is; especially when we are expecting the Marquise,' Effie responded. Then
she added, 'But here she comes now; I hear her carriage in the court.'

The Marquise too was just one of themselves; she was a part of their charming home.

'She is such a love!' said Mrs. Temperly to the foreign gentleman, with an irrepressible movement
of benevolence.

To which Raymond heard the gentleman reply that, Ah, she was the most distinguished woman in
France.

'Do you know Madame de Brives?' Effie asked of Raymond, while they were waiting for her to come in.

She came in at that moment, and the girl turned away quickly without an answer.

'How in the world should I know her?' That was the answer he would have been tempted to give.
He felt very much out of Cousin Maria's circle. The foreign gentleman fingered his moustache
and looked at him sidewise. The Marquise was a very pretty woman, fair and slender, of middle
age, with a smile, a complexion, a diamond necklace, of great splendour, and a charming manner.
Her greeting to her friends was sweet and familiar, and was accompanied with much kissing,
of a sisterly, motherly, daughterly kind; and yet with this expression of simple, almost homely
sentiment there was something in her that astonished and dazzled. She might very well have
been, as the foreign young man said, the most distinguished woman in France. Dora had not rushed
forward to meet her with nearly so much empressement as Effie, and this gave him a chance to
ask the former who she was. The girl replied that she was her mother's most intimate friend:
to which he rejoined that that was not a description; what he wanted to know was her title
to this exalted position.

'Why, can't you see it? She is beautiful and she is good.'

'I see that she is beautiful; but how can I see that she is good?'

'Good to mamma, I mean, and to Effie and Tishy.'

'And isn't she good to you?'

'Oh, I don't know her so well. But I delight to look at her.'

'Certainly, that must be a great pleasure,' said Raymond. He enjoyed it during dinner, which
was now served, though his enjoyment was diminished by his not finding himself next to Dora.
They sat at a small round table and he had at his right his Cousin Maria, whom he had taken
in. On his left was Madame de Brives, who had the foreign gentleman for a neighbour. Then came
Effie and Mademoiselle Bourde, and Dora was on the other side of her mother. Raymond regarded
this as marked--a symbol of the fact that Cousin Maria would continue to separate them. He
remained in ignorance of the other gentleman's identity, and remembered how he had prophesied
at the hotel in New York that his hostess would give up introducing people. It was a friendly,
easy little family repast, as she had said it would be, with just a marquise and a secretary
of embassy--Raymond ended by guessing that the stranger was a secretary of embassy--thrown
in. Railroads and roads,
the navigation of the lakes, popular schools, colleges, museums and libraries charitable institutes,
charities, credit and economy, and few can distinguish a civilized society, are treated with
great care by the authorities and citizens and no progress can not find sympathetic reception among
Vaudenses, worthy rivals of the Genevans.

The history of Vaud has much analogy to Geneva: the same succession of conquests and domination
under the Romans, Barbarians, and Burguiñones Franks, the counts of Savoy, Bishops and earls of
the country and the French from 1798 to 1814. HOWEVER, Vaud was subject in recent centuries (from
1536 to 1798) to the domination of Berne, who weighed on Geneva. The French Revolution to the
country of Vaud independence for Berne, making appear in various combinations of Napoleon. Thus,
from 1798 to 1803 was the first Republic of Geneva; later became part of the Republic Rodan (under
French protection), and Canton was held Confederate independent Switzerland. Its constitution with
this character dates from 1803, ratified then by the treaties of 1815. For the rest, the Vaudenses
have been very bellicose, as indicates the absence of fortifications in its major cities, except
in Lausanne (where they have been demolished) and the small inland town of Romont.

Vaudense population is very scattered in fields and small towns, villages and districts, circumstance
that explains well the dedication with which they are cultivated all the fields, graciously dotted
with farmhouses and villas happy.

The Canton is divided into 19 political-judicial circuits, 60 electoral circles judges peace, and
388 common or municipal districts, apart from the villages, by their smallness, lack of political
personality.

Thus, the proportional term is about 500 inhabitants per district.

The socio-political centers of Canton most important are ten, of which
seven correspond to the valley of the Rhone and three to the Aare
or the Rhine The first are:

Lausanne, rather industrial city, which
has about 20.500 inhabitants.

Vevey, very industrial and commercial center, with 5.500.

Morges, commercial city, with 3.500.

Bex, located in the Rhone Valley and noted for its salt mines, with 3.200.

Nyon, with 2.600 and 1.400 Rolle on the banks of Lake Geneva.

Villanueva, with 1.300, major port in the eastern end of the lake
and stopping point for trade that takes the road from Geneva to Milan
by the Simplon.

       

In the inland areas are important only some small towns: Iverdun with
3.800 inhabitants, situated at the southern end of Lake Neuchâtel,
notable as a commercial scale and steam navigation, Moudon, with 2.450
residents, one of the most ancient cities of Switzerland and Romont,
fortified (with 1,250) is frequented by farmers of their annual cattle
and horses.

* * * * *

The canton of Vaud in 1814 was about to lose its autonomy and had
to do to save the sacrifice of some freedoms.

Until 1830 cantonal retained its first constitution, but given the movement's drive liberal in Europe
by the French revolution of July resulted in Vaud democratic reform required by the people en
masse. However, the reform of 1831 later seemed insufficient and in 1845 a new revolution gave rise
to the constitution that is completely relevant today Democratic-Republican [15].

[15] In 1861 was voted a major constitutional reform even more advanced in the sense democratic.

According
to her all the children or permanent residents of the State, age 23, are citizens and exercise sovereignty
in elections or assemblies, or by choosing their representatives. The people has reserved the constitutional
power and only delegated legislative authority, executive and judicial
general business.

In districts with fewer than 600 people exercise power own administrative and legislative Grand-Council,
entirely patriarchal and democratic consisting of all heads of household over 25 years. In
most districts population, the legislative authority is entrusted to a popular election Communal
Council composed 25 to 100 neighbors, and the administration and enforcement are chaired by
a municipality by a trustee.

Circuits that divide the state are administered by prefects. Legislative power cantonal resides
in a grand council, composed of 195 members popularly elected by the circles, which meets in Lausanne
twice a year in ordinary sessions without the right remuneration.

The credentials of representatives last four years. The Great Council appointed Members of the Houses
of the Confederation and senior officials, among them the 9 Members of the Council of State, which
exercises executive power for six years. These 9 directors must leave within the Grand Council,
and they appoint annually from among themselves the president or head of government. The court
order is under the jurisdiction of the legislature. The State attends to all your needs with an
annual budget of about 550.000 pesos.

In Vaud are abolished in recent years the death penalty, forced labor in prison, public embarrassment
and confiscation. The prison system is entirely analogous to Geneva and the beautiful Losana Panopticon
is the first to be founded in Europe. The vaudenses and other Residents enjoy the full freedom of
religion, advertising, instruction, locomotion association, etc. Except for the roads and free
public education that the State holds, the manifestations of social activity belong to the private
sector.

Is so great was the interest that there is progress in public education
almost there is a city that has its well-stocked library, museum and
many colleges and libraries important.

       There are about 800 state elementary schools, 10 community colleges
and 22 schools secondary, some classical and other polytechnics.

There is viewed with particular attention science economic, and not many months [16] that
met Lausanne congress and a competition economist to combine the
best European tax system.

It's very small minority in the State of individuals without any instruction.

[16] in 1861.

* * * * *

Vaud localities we play, three of us and drew particular attention them to reduce some quick observations.

Vevey,
which disembarked to cross the Leman from Boveret, is a city so funny its structure, its admirable
situation and beautiful scenery nearby, and interesting by social movement. Starting from the
bank of the lake, whose waves bathes small springs, elegant villas, terraces and gardens and
walls of many of their homes, first extends on a plain low extension and then climbs amid vineyards
and orchards to the hill that dominates, which serves as a seat at the Cathedral Saint-Quentin
and various works of an ancient castle, limited by a large terrace
shaded leafy elm and chestnut trees.

At the foot of the walls that hold the city side of the lake bob in the waves many little boats
painted in bright colors, and everywhere rise a thousand rumors full of poetic harmony. The
hotel itself of the "Three-Crowns" in we stayed, extends its elegant terraces to the lake,
filled with flowers and shrubs, including orange, jasmine and the cigar of lanceolate leaves,
plants that grow in the air Free and open ground, and in southern climates.

Vevey, surrounded by beautiful rolling hills and slopes, and near which there are many beautiful views
and pleasant walks, offers one of the most enchanting panoramas you can imagine, especially if
it is seen from the terrace or the soaring tower Saint-Quentin, a gothic monument of simple
and severe style. When walking the city develops like a garden of the most varied contours and
colors, then stretches the vast lake Whispering quiet, full of light and poetry, and crossed
by numerous steamers, sailing vessels feluccas and boats and oars, and limited in its southern
margin by the barrier abrupt rocky and severe for its dark vegetation, which form the mountains of Savoy
or in the former province the Alps. In the same bank at the foot of these mountains, are the small
towns And San-Gingolfo Meillerie (which begins the new frontier of France), dominated by ports
buttresses and the high peaks of the Oche-Tooth and Chaumeny. Farther rises Tooth magnificent
snowy group-of-Midi and back and the SE, in a vast horizon colossi
of granite, the inextricable and stunning mountains that form the
chain of Mont Blanc and the Saint-Bernard.

Nothing is more majestic in its genre that these almost vertically steep mountains on the lake,
covered with ancient forests and gloomy, with few natural grasslands in narrow skirts, interspersed
with numerous villas or houses of shepherds from afar microscopic animals seem alpine dwellings.

If
it gets the look right and left, on the coast itself in Vevey, is everywhere a swarm picturesque
cottages and vineyards interspersed with fences of sticks, and sustained in broad arenas of
many steps for railings or walls simple and robust construction preventing the collapse of the
land. That is a huge wave of shoots the breeze Curling, whose green makes the most funny game
with bright turquoise the lake and distant mountains dark ink. It is impossible not to feel deeply
seduced by the charms of the incomparable panorama, full of smiling poetry, promises sweet
love and mobility as a whole and its details. It is not therefore surprising that it Vevey in
Europe one of the favorite residences of foreigners who travel in order not the pleasures of gambling,
luxury vanities and violent emotions, but calm of nature, mild climate and moderate pleasures
and delicate.

       Suffice to say, Vevey has been viewed with delight by Voltaire and
JJ Rousseau, Byron and Victor Hugo and a thousand travelers eminent.

* * * * *

Surprising that city under the social point of view, not only the lonely son of the regions wild or
Colombia but also to the inhabitants of the European capitals. In Europe, in general, a town
of 5.000 habilantes is an atom, and HOWEVER, many cities, 25 to 30.000 residents who lack true
culture. In Switzerland, where, except the mountains, everything is small, funny and attentive,
the little things and details are worth much are everything. It is certainly remarkable to
find in the modest town of Vevey, a little more than 5.500 inhabitants, a large number of institutes
and all the comforts of life, which regularly are not in big cities
but very advanced civilization.

If conditions country's physical development have favored that can not be denied that individual
freedom and collectively, the goodness of the institutions and the spirit of dignity and engendering
independeneia Calvinism, allied to the generous qualities of the French race, are the main causes.

Indeed,
Vevey contains, among other interesting things: two libraries, a religious and popular and
one of the city, with 13,000 volumes, a considerable number of schools, schools, hospitals,
hospices and other educational institutions and charities, several small museums or scientific
collections, literature and art, three circles, with cabinets reading, very good building for
all public services, excellent gas lighting, docks and markets, hundreds of workshops and small
factories, and a multitude of companies serving literary interests, religious, economic. Very
notable among including those of musketeers, musketeers and police,
who train in the shot, - institutions essentially national and interesting
for their political-social in Switzerland, where Every citizen is
a soldier in reserve and the mountains make their living by hunting.

Vevey is not only a first-order center in the state, in the production and export of wine (white
and very soft, gender champagne), but is notable for the exploitation of marbles and other
objects minerals, manufacture of watches, jewelry, machinery, trade
timber and the rearing of silkworms.

So, although its population is the second city vaudense, is the first in its industry and commerce.

Among
the free associations of Vevey is one which, besides being curious traditions and customs
that maintains a measure of the interest therein is taken by agriculture and fecundity of the
spirit of partnership I speak of the Abbey of the tenants, Congregation very old vineyard
growers and owners more interested in them. Taking Pray for currency words and works, his object
is not other than to promote prosperity of the vineyards and growers. So, every year send commissioners
to go carefully vineyards in the district, and by virtue of their reports to the congregation
discerning awards most distinguished cultivators and takes steps to improve the crop, expand veveisinos
wine trade and remove any disease or illness that can attack the vines. No less curious is the Feast
of the tenants, that they held five or six times each century, in times of great vintages, -
party, as we were told, offers the most unique genre scenes, and has some pagan character that makes
it very original at the time present.

The afternoon sun shone on the melancholy beauty of mountain peaks Jurassic and the lake and riparian
meadows, when we embarked on the steamer and headed Aigle towards the port of Ouchy, coasting
along the shore setentrional. Breezes curling waves lake, bright and full of delicious murmurs,
like agitated dense wreaths vines in the vineyards of the coast and in the bottom of them, at
100 feet away, saw stand five or six towns or villages full of grace in detail, and as descending
of rolling hills in picturesque disorder, to bathe in the lake the scallops and terraces their cheerful
houses. Each of these villages seems the original of one of those cribs birth or as popular in
the Spanish companies in the month of Christmas.

Ouchy, a small village on the banks, shaded by beautiful trees and surrounded by villas elegant
gardens and parks, is the port of Lausanne. There, or at very close range There was the old
Lausanium destroyed in the year 563 by the violent impact of water Lake, produced by the collapse
of a mountain on the opposite bank. The residents, terrified, sought the highest place of the neighboring
county and he founded to Lausanne, with incredible fad, to three miles away from Ouchy. A bus took
us immediately to that city, by a wide road, which is actually a huge street edged by sumptuous
villas terraces, parks and gardens of thick foliage laden with perfumes.

The city, cut into the bottom of two streams that come together in deep gullies, delay on three
hills and inland slopes and narrow valleys in between. So forms are so irregular and complicated
that reach the extravagance. Its streets, almost all narrow dark, winding and very steep, forming
a maze of hills that require up or down in any case. It has not much communication between the
streets of the three hills was very slow and painful, but then the magnificent bridge Pichard
(which sits on a double arch and measures 180 meters long, one hill to another), some streets
that skirted these hills and beautiful walking paths and outdoor wheels, the city has greatly
improved and facilitated movement of people and carriages.
 These night aspects
of Paris in the beaux quartiers had always for Raymond a particularly festive association,
and as he passed from his cab under the wide permanent tin canopy, painted in stripes like
an awning, which protected the low steps, it seemed to him odder than ever that all this established
prosperity should be Cousin Maria's.

If the thought of how well she did it bore him company from the threshold, it deepened to admiration
by the time he had been half an hour in the place. She stood near the entrance with her two
elder daughters, distributing the most familiar, most encouraging smiles, together with hand-shakes
which were in themselves a whole system of hospitality. If her party was grand Cousin Maria
was not; she indulged in no assumption of stateliness and no attempt at graduated welcomes.
It seemed to Raymond that it was only because it would have taken too much time that she didn't
kiss every one. Effie looked lovely and just a little frightened, which was exactly what she
ought to have done; and he noticed that among the arriving guests those who were not intimate
(which he could not tell from Mrs. Temperly's manner, but could from their own) recognised
her as a daughter much more quickly than they recognised Dora, who hung back disinterestedly,
as if not to challenge their discernment, while the current passed her, keeping her little
sister in position on its brink meanwhile by the tenderest small gesture.

'May I talk with you a little, later?' he asked of Dora, with only a few seconds for the question,
as people were pressing behind him. She answered evasively that there would be very little
talk--they would all have to listen--it was very serious; and the next moment he had received
a programme from the hand of a monumental yet gracious personage who stood beyond and who had
a silver chain round his neck.

The place was arranged for music, and how well arranged he saw later, when every one was seated,
spaciously, luxuriously, without pushing or over-peeping, and the finest talents in Paris performed
selections at which the best taste had presided. The singers and players were all stars of
the first magnitude. Raymond was fond of music and he wondered whose taste it had been. He
made up his mind it was Dora's--it was only she who could have conceived a combination so exquisite;
and he said to himself: 'How they all pull together! She is not in it, she is not of it, and
yet she too works for the common end.' And by 'all' he meant also Mademoiselle Bourde and the
Marquise. This impression made him feel rather hopeless, as if, en fin de compte, Cousin Maria
were too large an adversary. Great as was the pleasure of being present on an occasion so admirably
organised, of sitting there in a beautiful room, in a still, attentive, brilliant company,
with all the questions of temperature, space, light and decoration solved to the gratification
of every sense, and listening to the best artists doing their best--happily constituted as
our young man was to enjoy such a privilege as this, the total effect was depressing: it made
him feel as if the gods were not on his side.

'And does she do it so well without a man? There must be so many details a woman can't tackle,'
he said to himself; for even counting in the Marquise and Mademoiselle Bourde this only made
a multiplication of petticoats. Then it came over him that she was a man as well as a woman--the
masculine element was included in her nature. He was sure that she bought her horses without
being cheated, and very few men could do that. She had the American national quality--she had
'faculty' in a supreme degree. 'Faculty--faculty,' the voices of the quartette of singers seemed
to repeat, in the quick movement of a composition they rendered beautifully, while they swelled
and went faster, till the thing became a joyous chant of praise, a glorification of Cousin
Maria's practical genius.

During the intermission, in the middle of the concert, people changed places more or less and
circulated, so that, walking about at this time, he came upon the Marquise, who, in her sympathetic,
demonstrative way, appeared to be on the point of clasping her hostess in her arms. 'Décidément,
ma bonne, il n'y a que vous! C'est une perfection----' he heard her say. To which, gratified
but unelated, Cousin Maria replied, according to her simple, sociable wont: 'Well, it does
seem quite a successful occasion. If it will only keep on to the end!'

Raymond, wandering far, found himself in a world that was mainly quite new to him, and explained
his ignorance of it by reflecting that the people were probably celebrated: so many of them
had decorations and stars and a quiet of manner that could only be accounted for by renown.
There were plenty of Americans with no badge but a certain fine negativeness, and they were
quiet for a reason which by this time had become very familiar to Raymond: he had heard it
so often mentioned that his country-people were supremely 'adaptable.' He tried to get hold
of Dora, but he saw that her mother had arranged things beautifully to keep her occupied with
other people; so at least he interpreted the fact--after all very natural--that she had half
a dozen fluttered young girls on her mind, whom she was providing with programmes, seats, ices,
occasional murmured remarks and general support and protection. When the concert was over she
supplied them with further entertainment in the form of several young men who had pliable backs
and flashing breastpins and whom she inarticulately introduced to them, which gave her still
more to do, as after this serious step she had to stay and watch all parties. It was strange
to Raymond to see her transformed by her mother into a precocious duenna. Him she introduced
to no young girl, and he knew not whether to regard this as cold neglect or as high consideration.
If he had liked he might have taken it as a sweet intimation that she knew he couldn't care
for any girl but her.

On the whole he was glad, because it left him free--free to get hold of her mother, which by
this time he had boldly determined to do. The conception was high, inasmuch as Cousin Maria's
attention was obviously required by the ambassadors and other grandees who had flocked to do
her homage. Nevertheless, while supper was going on (he wanted none, and neither apparently
did she), he collared her, as he phrased it to himself, in just the right place--on the threshold
of the conservatory. She was flanked on either side with a foreigner of distinction, but he
didn't care for her foreigners now. Besides, a conservatory was meant only for couples; it
was a sign of her comprehensive sociability that she should have been rambling among the palms
and orchids with a double escort. Her friends would wish to quit her but would not wish to
appear to give way to each other; and Raymond felt that he was relieving them both (though
he didn't care) when he asked her to be so good as to give him a few minutes' conversation.
He made her go back with him into the conservatory: it was the only thing he had ever made
her do, or probably ever would. She began to talk about the great Gregorini--how it had been
too sweet of her to repeat one of her songs, when it had really been understood in advance
that repetitions were not expected. Raymond had no interest at present in the great Gregorini.
He asked Cousin Maria vehemently if she remembered telling him in New York--that night at the
hotel, five years before--that when he should have followed them to Paris he would be free
to address her on the subject of Dora. She had given him a promise that she would listen to
him in this case, and now he must keep her up to the mark. It was impossible to see her alone,
but, at whatever inconvenience to herself, he must insist on her giving him his opportunity.

'About Dora, Cousin Raymond?' she asked, blandly and kindly--almost as if she didn't exactly
know who Dora was.

'Surely you haven't forgotten what passed between us the evening before you left America. I
was in love with her then and I have been in love with her ever since. 

On the matter of environment

Mr. D. Antonio de Hoyos.
My distinguished friend, I read with due attention to the novel whose
title you Environmental issue, and I'll tell you frankly the views
on she asks. I have behaved like a saint in the interval: I
haven't attempted to practise upon her without your knowledge.'

'I am so glad; but she would have let me know,' said Cousin Maria, looking round the conservatory
as if to see if the plants were all there.

'No doubt. I don't know what you do to her. But I trust that to-day your opposition falls--in
face of the proof that we have given you of mutual fidelity.'

'Fidelity?' Cousin Maria repeated, smiling.

'Surely--unless you mean to imply that Dora has given me up. I have reason to believe that
she hasn't.'

'I think she will like better to remain just as she is.'

'Just as she is?'

'I mean, not to make a choice,' Cousin Maria went on, smiling.

Raymond hesitated a moment. 'Do you mean that you have tried to make her make one?'

At this the good lady broke into a laugh. 'My dear Raymond, how little you must think I know
my child!'

'Perhaps, if you haven't tried to make her, you have tried to prevent her. Haven't you told
her I am unsuccessful, I am poor?'

She stopped him, laying her hand with unaffected solicitude on his arm. 'Are you poor, my dear? What do you want to convey with this word?

- Men ...-- stammered, embarrassed, the dentist - that the same word
says .... Expert is who knows one thing.

- So why do not you say
knowledgeable, like most people?

- Man, you put me in a bind.

Expert is also the best known class of things. I am an expert in dentistry ....

- So why do not you say you a specialist, like most people?

- I wrapped
you, rather than clarifying my doubts.

I said because I wanted to give expert to understand several things in one word.

- Exactly, that is what it purports to Bellarmine, to understand many
things in one word.

And as the words he knew only one thing expressing each has invented a new language in which each
word indicates several things, at least the number of things that occur more particularly
the thing designated by each word.

- Well, but has not yet replied to my first point.

- Here I go. I have already collected a considerable number of words and understand some belarminianos
of their sentences. For example, in today's conference, the phrase "is the one who eats at the Dictionary,
tole tole, to the CAS, tas, tas ", means" is the man to the universe,
while living, until he dies.

" This is the literal version.

- Well, since that phrase is a truism, and not worth wasting time
on study the language of the shoemaker, to ultimately come to find
that out.

"So the dictionary is the universe? And what need is there mudarle the name?

- Perfectly. That is an objection to gainsay the greatest philosophers. A writer French, Stendhal
wrote that he had tired to unravel the long, thorough Kant's system, to find, after all, that
is not enclosed but what everyone knows common sense. And as to vary
the usual meaning of words, I'll tell you all philosophical systems
must necessarily start this. They found an empty
sofa in the outlasting lamp-light, and there the girl sat down with him. Evidently she knew
what he was going to say, or rather she thought she did; for in fact, after a little, after
he had told her that he had spoken to her mother and she had told him he might speak to her,
he said things that she could not very well have expected.

'Is it true that you wish to remain with Effie and Tishy? That's what your mother calls it
when she means that you will give me up.'

'How can I give you up?' the girl demanded. 'Why can't we go on being friends, as I asked you
the evening you dined here?'

'What do you mean by friends?'

'Well, not making everything impossible.'

'You didn't think anything impossible of old,' Raymond rejoined, bitterly. 'I thought you liked
me then, and I have even thought so since.'

'I like you more than I like any one. I like you so much that it's my principal happiness.'

'Then why are there impossibilities?'

'Oh, some day I'll tell you!' said Dora, with a quick sigh. 'Perhaps after Tishy is married.
And meanwhile, are you not going to remain in Paris, at any rate? Isn't your work here? You
are not here for me only. You can come to the house often. That's what I mean by our being
friends.'

Her companion sat looking at her with a gloomy stare, as if he were trying to make up the deficiencies
in her logic.

'After Tishy is married? I don't see what that has to do with it. Tishy is little more than
a baby; she may not be married for ten years.'

'That is very true.'

'And you dispose of the interval by a simple "meanwhile"? My dear Dora, your talk is strange,'
Raymond continued, with his voice passionately lowered. 'And I may come to the house--often?
How often do you mean--in ten years? Five times--or even twenty?' He saw that her eyes were
filling with tears, but he went on: 'It has been coming over me little by little (I notice
things very much if I have a reason), and now I think I understand your mother's system.'

'Don't say anything against my mother,' the girl broke in, beseechingly.

'I shall not say anything unjust. That is if I am unjust you must tell me. This is my idea,
and your speaking of Tishy's marriage confirms it. 

In their disappointment, the duchess experienced a feeling aplaciente and cheerful. "This visit
- I was thinking down the stairs of the episcopal palace - has helped me appreciate Facundo better.
He is a man of will and work according to their conscience. Too bad they have so little wit
in his pate. Previously, he pitied, and now, almost admire him. "At any rate, The Duchess was
determined not to consent to the marriage, believing that it would be wretched man. Meanwhile, Don Pedrito
held prisoner, and gave time to time.

Anxieties, to be alone and helpless in Inhiesta, wrote to his father: "Do not quit because
did not love you, dad. We escaped just to be sure to marry the father. Wanted Then you came to live
with us, Father. Pedro loves you as much as I love him, father. Father, I stole it. I do not
know what happens to me, father. I want to get back with you, Father. " This letter crossed
with one that had written to Angus Xuantipa desktop still fresh news
of the flight and the first impulse of anger:

"Do not come to soil
this holy house.

Hide your shame where no one finds you or you know or know us. "When he received the letter
Bellarmine Sorrows, began to mourn and to laugh. Kissed the role with zeal, and sobbed: "Daughter
of my heart, O daughter of my heart" as mothers. Father went up to see Alesón, to ask if would
Sorrows.

- Did not come? Comes to marriage.

Tomorrow, first thing in the morning, we will to fetch me and another
priest of the community.

- Come, come - Belarmino sobbed, still smiling,
eyes wet.

On reaching the friars Inhiesta, Angus had disappeared. 'However, Effie
ought to go off easily,' he went on, as Dora said nothing. 'I really wonder that, with the
Marquise and all, she hasn't gone off yet. This thing, to-night, ought to do a great deal for her.'

Dora listened to him with a fascinated gaze; it was as if he expressed things for her and relieved
her spirit by making them clear and coherent. Her eyes managed, each time, to be dry again,
and now a somewhat wan, ironical smile moved her lips. 'Mamma knows what she wants--she knows
what she will take. And she will take only that.'

'Precisely--something tremendous. And she is willing to wait, eh? Well, Effie is very young,
and she's charming. But she won't be charming if she has an ugly appendage in the shape of
a poor unsuccessful American artist (not even a good one), whose father went bankrupt, for
a brother-in-law. That won't smooth the way, of course; and if a prince is to come into the
family, the family must be kept tidy to receive him.' Dora got up quickly, as if she could
bear his lucidity no longer, but he kept close to her as she walked away. 'And she can sacrifice
you like that, without a scruple, without a pang?'

'I might have escaped--if I would marry,' the girl replied.

'Do you call that escaping? She has succeeded with you, but is it a part of what the Marquise
calls her succès de bonté?'

'Nothing that you can say (and it's far worse than the reality) can prevent her being delightful.'

'Yes, that's your loyalty, and I could shoot you for it!' he exclaimed, making her pause on
the threshold of the adjoining room. 'So you think it will take about ten years, considering
Tishy's size--or want of size?' He himself again was the only one to laugh at this. 'Your mother
is closeted, as much as she can be closeted now, with Madame de Brives, and perhaps this time
they are really settling something.'

'I have thought that before and nothing has come. Mamma wants something so good; not only every
advantage and every grandeur, but every virtue under heaven, and every guarantee. But
when there was or when there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of denote?
Since before Cadmus furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy in Greece and
Italy were chiefs. What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions of those
in vain we Osiris and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country ruled almost
without interruption a long series of not less ferocious tyrants. See, then, how old ailment
chieftaincy is everywhere, and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded
as deplorable novelty introduced and implemented between us constitution or political system of fashion.

Be
all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and
mud is permissible betray any, you can ensure that the novel is very
pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that ends.

And you can be sure that Mr. D. José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and delicate
taste, and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied well
to our classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy any of them, but
putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new wine in old wine sill and generous than the old
glass contains.

I would like to here news of other recently published stories and
novels.

Harvest as I indicated, is abundant in this century and it was in the past. I flinch, then strain
to my readers. And without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I
feel less tired I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D. Jose Jesus Garcia,
printed in Almeria to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D. Sebastian Gomila,
edition of Barcelona in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D. July Pellicer, Woman
of Ojeda (Alicante, 1901), by D. Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don Alfonso Jara,
and bulk to the Coracha, by and held in high esteem and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.

Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville,
already known scholar and also elegant and witty poet.

As a novelist, not I know that D. Luis Montoto, the writer whom I allude, has published anything
before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four pennies. As a lyric poet he knew
me and I felt much long. In the intellectual and literary activity that is central Sevilla,
is among the most illustrious writers.
 $6.

+Frederick, Crown Prince and Emperor.+ A Biographical Sketch dedicated to his Memory. By RENNELL
RODD. With an Introduction by HER MAJESTY THE EMPRESS FREDERICK. With Photograph, Portrait.
12mo. $1.25.

+Essays in Criticism.+ By MATTHEW ARNOLD, D.C.L. Second Series. With an Introductory Note by
LORD COLERIDGE. Globe 8vo. $1.50. CONTENTS:--The Study of Poetry--Milton--Thomas Gray--John
Keats--Wordsworth--Byron--Shelley--Count Leo Tolstoi--Amiel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Volumes I. and II., with Portraits, now ready. Cloth limp, 60 cents; cloth uncut, 75 cents each.

+English Men of Action.+

General Gordon. By Colonel Sir WILLIAM BUTLER.

The Athenæum says:--'As a brief memorial of a career that embraced many momentous spheres of
action, that included some of the principal military and colonial crises of the past fifty
years, and that ended in a halo of transcendent self-immolation, Sir William Butler's volume
is the best we possess.'

The St. James's Gazette says:--'Sir William Butler tells the story of Gordon's life as a brother-officer
should. The interest never flags, and the narrative is imbued with a deep feeling of reverence.'

The Nonconformist says:--'It is the best biography of Gordon that has yet appeared.'

The Spectator says:--'This is beyond all question the best of the narratives of the career
of General Gordon that has yet been published.'

+Henry the Fifth.+ By the Rev. A. J. CHURCH.

The Volumes to follow are:--

+Livingstone.+ By Mr. THOMAS HUGHES. The author achieves almost
since then, with good sense and exquisite art, do we care by Prisca, so is called the old
woman. She also had in his remote youth tender and delicate love.

The purpose of these abandoned her to go to seek their fortune in distant lands. All earnest
and affectionate affections of the soul of Prisca and concentrated, then took refuge in religion,
seeking and finding comfort and solace therein. A single source of
sadness clouded and in light of his thoughts serene. +Clive.+ By Colonel Sir CHARLES WILSON.
+Warren Hastings.+ By Sir ALFRED LYALL. +Sir John Moore.+ By COLONEL MAURICE. +Havelock.+ By
Mr. ARCHIBALD FORBES.

MACMILLAN AND CO., NEW YORK.

