THE COURT OF BOYVILLE

By

William Allen White

Author Of The Real Issue, etc.

Illustrated by ORSON LOWELL (with the exception of the first story, the illustrations for which
are by GUSTAV VERBEEK).

1898

CONTENTS

PROLOGUE

THE MARTYRDOM OF "MEALY" JONES

A RECENT CONFEDERATE VICTORY

"WHILE THE EVIL DAYS COME NOT"

JAMES SEARS: A NAUGHTY PERSON

MUCH POMP AND SEVERAL CIRCUMSTANCES

"THE HERB CALLED HEARTS-EASE"

  Where is Boyville? By what track
  May we trace our journey back;
  Up what mountains, thro' what seas
  By what meadow-lands and leas,
  Must we travel to the bourne
  Of the shady rows of corn
  That lead down to the Willows
  Where the day is always morn?

ILLUSTRATIONS

"Say, boys, where's its bottle?"

The three boys were scuffling for the possession of a piece of rope

He saw Abe catch Jimmy and hold his head under water

He felt his father's finger under his collar and his own feet shambling

Mrs. Jones stooped to the floor and took her child by an arm

His feet hanging out of the back of the wagon that had held the coffin

His luck was bad

He withdrew from the game and sat alone against the barn

As she turned to her turkey-slicing

The new preacher, for whom the party was made

The first long dress

"Dickey, Dickey, for gracious sake, keep still"

"Did you know my dad was a soldier?"

During the next two hours the boy wandered on the prairie

"Mary Pennington, aged two years, three months, and ten days"

Piggy went to get his flying hat

She stroked his hand and snuggled closer to him

Miss Morgan smiled happily at the clouds

Chased the little girls around the yard with it

She would not have invited Harold Jones to sit and sing with her during the opening hour

Harold Jones

To study his tastes

... The comradeship ... was beautiful to see

The red-headed Pratt girl

He could only snap chalk in a preoccupied way and listen to his Heart's Desire

Piggy was piling up the primary urchins in wiggling, squealing piles

He watched the teacher's finger crook a signal for the note to be brought forward

... fought boys who were three classes above him ... whipped groups of boys of assorted sizes

Over his mother's shoulders Piggy saw the hired girl giggle

Her son ate rapidly in silence

His cleanliness pleased his mother and she boasted of it to the mothers of other boys

A little maid in a black-and-red check

Piggy sat on the front porch, and reviewed the entire affair

It began when his Heart's Desire had fluttered into his autograph album

At this important bit of repartee

His heart was full of bitterness

Throwing sticks in the water to scare the fish

A crawler, a creeper, a toddler, a stumbler, and a sneaker

James

Mrs. Jones came out to take care of the butter

The sort of boy who would unsex himself by looking at a baby

Jimmy heard Mrs. Jones tell his little sister Annie that morning that she was no longer the baby

His father strutting around town ... bragging of the occurrence that filled the boy with shame

He jumped for the slanting boards with his bare feet, and his heart was glad

He sat on a log and slowly lifted up his foot, twisting his face into an agonized knot

"Spit, spit, spy, tell me whur my chicken is, er I'll hit ye in the eye"

"I'll pay for your chicken, I say. Now you keep away from me"

An irregular circumference that touched his ears and his chin and his hair

"Got anything here fit to eat?"

"What'd you want to take Annie's doll away from her for?"

She drew him down and kissed his cheek while he pecked at her lips

Piggy Pennington ... galloped his father's fat delivery horse up and down the alley

Mammoth Consolidated Shows

Oil made by hanging a bottle of angle-worms in the sun to fry

How many bags of carpet rags went to the ragman

Brother Baker--a tiptoeing Nemesis

Dressed-up children were flitting along the side streets, hurrying their seniors

The Balloon-Vender wormed his way through the buzzing crowd, leaving his wares in a red and
blue trail behind him

The Blue Sash about the country girl's waist and the flag in her Beau's hat

"One's a trick elephant. You'd die a-laughing if you saw him"

"It's an awful good one. Can't he go just this once?"

8 Funny Clowns--count them 8

"Well, son, you're a daisy. They generally drop the first kick"

The other wranglers ... dropped out for heavy repairs

When Mr. Pennington's eyes fell on Bud, he leaned on a show-case and laughed till he shook all over

"Miss Morgan, I just want you to look at my boy"

"Now, Henry, don't ever have anything to do with that kind of trash again"

"Here's a dollar I got for ridin' the trick mule ... I thought it would be nice for the missionary
society"

"Gee, we're going to have pie, ain't we"

PROLOGUE

We who are passing "through the wilderness of this world" find it difficult to realize what
an impenetrable wall there is around the town of Boyville. Storm it as we may with the simulation
of light-heartedness, bombard it with our heavy guns, loaded with fishing-hooks and golf-sticks,
and skates and base-balls, and butterfly-nets, the walls remain. If once the clanging gates
of the town shut upon a youth, he is banished forever. From afar he may peer over the walls
at the games inside, but he may not be of them. Let him try to join them, and lo, the games
become a mockery, and he finds that he is cavorting still outside the walls, while the good
citizens inside are making sly sport of him. Who, being recently banished from Boyville, has
not sought to return? In vain does he haunt the swimming hole; the water elves will have none
of him. He hushes their laughter, muffles their calls, takes the essence from their fun, and
leaves it dust upon their lips.

But we of the race of grown-ups are a purblind people. Otherwise, when we acknowledge what
a stronghold this Boyville is, we the banished would not seek to steal away the merry townsmen,
and bruise our hearts and theirs at our hopeless task. We have learned many things in our schools,
and of the making of books there has been no end; so it is odd that we have not learned to
let a boy be a boy. Why not let him feel the thrill from the fresh spring grass under his feet,
as his father felt it before him, and his father's father, even back to Adam, who walked thus
with God! There is a tincture of iron that seeps into a boys blood with the ozone of the earth,
that can come to him by no other way. Let him run if he will; Heavens air is a better elixir
than any that the alchemist can mix. What if he roams the woods and lives for hours in the
water? What if he prefers the barn to the parlor? What if he fights? Does he not take the risk
of the scratched face and the bruises? Should he not be in some measure the judge of the situation
before him when the trouble begins? Boys have an ugly name for one of their kind who discovers
suddenly, in a crisis of his own making, that he is not allowed to fight. And it were better
to see a boy with a dozen claw-marks down his face than to see him eat that name in peace.

Now this conclusion may seem barbaric to elders who have to pay for new clothes to replace
the torn ones, And according to their light perhaps the elders see clearly. But the grown-up
people forget that their wisdom has impaired their vision to see as boys see and to pass judgment
upon things in another sphere.

For Boyville is a Free Town in the monarchy of the world. Its citizens mind their own business,
and they desire travellers in this waste to do likewise. The notion that spectacled gentry
should come nosing through the streets and alleys of Boyville, studying the sanitation, which
is not of the best, and objecting to the constitution and by laws,--which were made when the
rivers were dug and the hills piled up,--the notion of an outsider interfering with the Divine
right of boys to eat what they please, to believe what they please, and, under loyalty to the
monarchy of the world, to do what they please, is repugnant to this free people. Nor does it
better matters when the man behind the spectacles explains that to eat sheep-sorrel is deleterious;
to feed younkers Indian turnip is cruel; to suck the sap of the young grapevine in spring produces
malaria; to smoke rattan is depraving, and to stuff one's stomach with paw-paws and wild-grapes
is dangerous in the extreme.

For does not the first article of the law of this Free Town expressly state, that boys shall
be absolved from obeying any and all laws regulating the human stomach, and be free of the
penalties thereto attaching? And again when Wisdom says that the boy shall give up his superstitions,
the boy points to hoary tradition, which says that the snakes tail does not in fact and in
truth die till sundown; that if a boy kills a lucky bug he shall find a nickel; that to cross
one's heart and lie, brings on swift and horrible retribution; that letting the old cat die
causes death in the family; that to kill a toad makes the cow give bloody milk; that horsehairs
in water turn to snakes in nine days; that spitting on the bait pleases the fish, and that
to draw a circle in the dust around a marble charms it against being hit. What tradition, ancient
and honorable in Boyville, declares is true, that is the Law everlasting, and no wise mans
word shall change the law one jot nor one tittle. For in the beginning it was written, to get
in the night wood, to eat with a fork at table, to wear shoes on Sunday, to say "sir" to company,
and "thank you" to the lady, to go to bed at nine to remember that there are others who like
gravy, to stay out of the water in dog days, to come right straight home from school, to shinny
on your own side, and to clean those feet for Heaven's sake,--that is the whole duty of boys.
As it was in the beginning, so it shall be ever after.

Now most of us grown-ups do not admit these things, and not being able to speak the language
of the people whose rights we are seeking to destroy, we will never know how utterly futile
are our conspiracies. But that is immaterial.

The main point that the gentle reader should bear in mind is this: The town of Boyville is
free and independent; governed only by the ancient laws, made by the boys of the elder days--by
the boys who found bottom in the rivers that flowed out of Eden; by little Seth, little Enoch,
little Methuselah, and little Noah; by the boys who threw mud balls from willow withes broken
from trees whereon David hung his harp a thousand years thereafter. For Boyville was old when
Nineveh was a frontier post.

Boyville hears from afar the buzz about principalities and powers, the clatter of javelins
and the clash of arms, the hubbub of the "Pride and pomp and circumstance of glorious war."
The courtiers of Boyville cheer for each new hero, and claim fellowship with all "like gentlemen
unafraid." But the Free Town has its own sovereign, makes its own idols. And the clatter and
clash and hubbub that attend the triumphs of the kingdoms of the earth pass by unconquered
Boyville as the shadow of a dream.

THE MARTYRDOM OF "MEALY" JONES

A WAIL IN B MINOR

  Oh, what has become of the ornery boy,
    Who used to chew slip'ry elm, "rosum" and wheat:
  And say "jest a coddin'" and  "what d'ye soy;"
    And wear rolled-up trousers all out at the seat?

  And where is the boy who had shows in the barn,
    And "skinned a cat backards" and turned "summersets;"
  The boy who had faith in a snake-feeder yarn,
    And always smoked grape vine and corn cigarettes?

  Where now is the small boy who spat on his bait,
    And proudly stood down near the foot of the class,
  And always went "barefooted" early and late,
    And washed his feet nights on the dew of the grass?

  Where is the boy who could swim on his back,
    And dive and tread water and lay his hair, too;
  The boy who would jump off the spring-board ker-whack,
    And light on his stomach as I used to do?

  Oh where and oh where is the old-fashioned boy?
    Has the old-fashioned boy with his old-fashioned ways,
  Been crowded aside by the Lord Fauntleroy,--
    The cheap tinselled make-believe, full of alloy
    Without the pure gold of the rollicking joy
  Of the old-fashioned boy in the old-fashioned days?

His mother named him Harold, and named him better than she knew. He was just such a boy as
one would expect to see bearing a heroic name. He had big, faded blue eyes, a nubbin of a chin,
wide, wondering ears, and freckles--such brown blotches of freckles on his face and neck and
hands, such a milky way of them across the bridge of his snub nose, that the boys called him
"Mealy." And Mealy Jones it was to the end. When his parents called him Harold in the hearing
of his playmates, the boy was ashamed, for he felt that a nickname gave him equal standing
among his fellows. There were times in his life--when he was alone, recounting his valorous
deeds--that Mealy more than half persuaded himself that he was a real boy. But when he was
with Winfield Pennington, surnamed "Piggy" in the court of Boyville, and Abraham Lincoln Carpenter,
similarly knighted "Old Abe," Mealy saw that he was only Harold, a weak and unsatisfactory
imitation. He was handicapped in his struggle to be a natural boy by a mother who had been
a "perfect little lady" in her girlhood and who was moulding her son in the forms that fashioned
her. If it were the purpose of this tale to deal in philosophy, it would be easy to digress
and show that Mealy Jones was a study in heredity; that from his mother's side of the house
he inherited wide, white, starched collars, and from his father's side, a burning desire to
spit through his teeth. But this is only a simple tale, with no great problem in it, save that
of a boy working out his salvation between a fiendish lust for suspenders with trousers and
a long-termed incarceration in ruffled waists with despised white china buttons around his
waist-band.

No one but Piggy ever knew how Mealy Jones learned to swim; and Harold's mother doesn't consider
Piggy Pennington any one, for the Penningtons are Methodists and the Joneses are Baptists,
and Very hard-shelled ones, too. However, Mealy Jones did learn to swim "dog-fashion" years
and years after the others had become post-graduates in aquatic lore and could "tread water,"
"swim sailor-fashion," and "lay" their hair. Mrs. Jones permitted her son to go swimming occasionally,
but she always exacted from him a solemn promise not to go into the deep water. And Harold,
who was a good little boy, made it a point not to "let down" when he was beyond the "step-off."
So of course he could not know how deep it was; although the bad little boys who "brought up
bottom" had told him that it was twelve feet deep.

One hot June afternoon Mealy stood looking at a druggist's display window, gazing idly at the
pills, absently picking out the various kinds which he had taken. He had just come from his
mother with the expressed injunction not to go near the river. His eyes roamed listlessly from
the pills to the pain-killer, and; turning wearily away, he saw Piggy and Old Abe and Jimmy
Sears. The three boys were scuffling for, the possession of a piece of rope. Pausing a moment
in front of the grocery store, they beckoned for Mealy. The lad joined the group. Some one said,--

"Come on, Mealy, and go swimmin'."

"Aw, Mealy can't go," put in Jimmy; "his ma won't let him."

"Yes, I kin, too, if I want to," replied Mealy, stoutly--but, alas! guiltily.

"Then come on," said Piggy Pennington. "You don't dast. My ma don't care how often I go in--only
in dog days."

After some desultory debate they started--the four boys--pushing one another off the sidewalk,
"rooster-fighting," shouting, laughing, racing through the streets. Mealy Jones longed to have
the other boys observe his savage behavior. He knew, however, that he was not of them, that
he was a sad make-believe. The guilt of the deed he was doing, oppressed him. He wondered how
he could go into crime so stolidly. Inwardly he quaked as he recalled the stories he had read
of boys who had drowned while disobeying their parents. His uneasiness was increased by the
ever-present sense that he could not cope with the other boys at their sports. He let them
jostle him, and often would run, after his self-respect would goad him to jostle back. Mealy
was glad when the group came to the deep shade of the woods and walked slowly.

It was three o'clock when the boys reached the swimming-hole. There the great elm-tree, with
its ladder of exposed roots, stretched over the water. Piggy Pennington, stripped to the skin,
ran whooping down the sloping bank, splashed over the gravel at the water's edge, and plunged
into the deepest water. Old Abe followed cautiously, bathing his temples and his wrists before
sousing all over. Jimmy Sears threw his shirt high up on the bank as he stood ankle-deep in
the stream. Piggy's exhilaration having worn off by this time, he picked up a mussel-shell
and threw it at Jimmy's feet. The water dashed wide of its mark and sprinkled Mealy, who was
sitting on a log, taking off his shoes.

"Here, Piggy, you quit that," said Mealy.

Jimmy said nothing. He sprang into the air head foremost toward Piggy, who dived from sight.
His pursuer saw the direction Piggy took and followed him. The boys were a few feet apart when
Jimmy came to the surface, puffing and spouting and shaking the water from his eyes and hair.
He hesitated in his pursuit. Piggy observed the hesitation, and with a quick overhand movement
shot a stinging stream of water from the ball of his hand into his antagonist's face. Then
Piggy turned on his side and swam swiftly to shallow water, where he stood and splashed his
victim, who was lumbering toward shore with his eyes shut, panting loudly. With every splash
Piggy said, "How's that, Jim?" or "Take a bite o' this," or "Want a drink?" When Jimmy got
where he could walk on the creek bottom, he made a feint of fighting back, but he soon ceased,
and stood by, gasping for breath, before saying, "Let's quit."

Then followed the fun of ducking, the scuffling and the capers of the young human animals at
play--at play even as gods in the elder days. Mealy saw it all through envious eyes and with
a pricking conscience, as he doggedly fumbled the myriad buttons which his mother had fastened
upon his pretty clothes. He heard Piggy dare Abe across the creek, and call him a cowardly
calf, and say, "Any one't 'ull take a dare'll steal sheep." Mealy saw Jimmy grin as he cracked
rocks under water while the other boys were diving, and watched Old Abe, as he made the waves
rise under his chin, swimming after the fleeing culprit. He saw Abe catch Jimmy and hold his
head under water until Mealy's smile faded to a horrified grin. Then he saw the victim and
the victor come merrily to the shallows, laughing as though nothing unusual had occurred. It
was high revel in Boyville, and the satyrs were in the midst of their joy.

Then Mealy heard Piggy say, "Aw, come in, Mealy; it won't hurt you."

"Is it cold?" asked Mealy.

"Naw," replied Piggy.

"Naw, course it ain't," returned Jimmy.

"Warm as dish-water," cried Abe.

Mealy's ribs shone through his skin. His big milky eyes made him seem uncanny, standing there
shivering in the shade. He hobbled down the pebbly bank on his tender feet, his bashful grin
breaking into a dozen contortions of pain as he went. The boys stood watching him like tigers
awaiting a Christian martyr. He paused at the water's edge, put in a toe and jerked it out
with a spasm of cold.

"Aw, that ain't cold," said Piggy.

"Naw, when you get in you won't mind it," insisted Abe.

Mealy replied, "Oo, oo! I think that's pretty cold."

"Wet your legs and you won't get the cramp," advised Jimmy Sears.

Mealy stooped over to scoop up some water in his hands. He heard the boys laugh, and the next
instant felt a shower of water on his back. It made the tears come.

"Uhm-m-m--no fair splashin'," he whined.

Mealy put one foot in the water and drew it out quickly, gasping, "Oo! I ain't goin' in. It's
too cold for me. It'll bring my measles out." He started--trembling--up the bank; then he heard
a splashing behind him.

"Come back here," cried Piggy, whose hands were uplifted; "come back here and git in this water
or I'll muddy you." Piggy's hands were full of mud. He was about to throw it when the Jones
boy pretended to laugh and giggled, "Oh, I was just a-foolin'."

But he paused again at the water's edge, and Piggy, who had come up close enough to touch the
rickety lad, reached out a muddy hand and dabbed the quaking boy's breast. The other boys roared
with glee. Mealy extended a deprecatory hand, and took Piggy's wet, glistening arm and stumbled
nervously into the stream, with an "Oo-oo!" at every uncertain step. When the water came to
Mealy's waist Abe cried, "Duck! duck, or I'll splash you!" The boy sank down, with his teeth
biting his tongue as he said, "Oo! I wouldn't do you that way."

When the shock of the tepid water had spent itself, Mealy's grin returned, and he shivered
happily, "Oo--it's good, ain't it?"

Ten minutes later the boys were diving from the roots of the elm-tree into the deep water on
the other side of the creek. Ten minutes after that they were sliding down a muddy toboggan
which they had revived by splashing water upon the incline made and provided by the town boys
for scudding. Ten minutes afterward they were covering themselves with coats of mud, adorned--one
with stripes made with the point of a stick, another with polka-dots, another with checks,
and Mealy with snake-like, curving stripes. Then the whole crew dashed down the path to the
railroad bridge to greet the afternoon passenger train. When it came they jumped up and down
and waved their striped and spotted arms like the barbarian warriors which they fancied they
were. They swam up the stream leisurely, and, as they rounded the bend that brought their landing-place
into view, the quick eye of Piggy Pennington saw that some one had been meddling with their
clothes. He gave the alarm. The boys quickened their strokes. When they came to the shallows
of the ford they saw the blue-and-white starched shirt of Mealy Jones lying in a pool tied
into half a dozen knots, with the water soaking them tighter and tighter. The other boys' clothes
were not disturbed.

"Mealy's got to chaw beef," cried Piggy Pennington. The other boys echoed Piggy's merriment.
Great sorrows come to grown-up people, but there is never a moment in after-life more poignant
with grief than, that which stabs a boy when he learns that he must wrestle with a series of
water-soaked knots in a shirt. As Mealy sat in the broiling sun, gripping the knots with his
teeth and fingers, he asked himself again and again how he could explain his soiled shirt to
his mother. Lump after lump rose in his throat, and dissolved into tears that trickled down
his nose. The other boys did not heed him. They were following Piggy's dare, dropping into
the water from the overhanging limb of the elm-tree.

