The running gear is simply sprung with individual leaf springs for each axle; it is not connected
by equalizing levers. To find an American locomotive not equipped with equalizers is surprising
since they were almost a necessity to produce a reasonably smooth ride on the rough tracks
of American railroads. Equalizers steadied the motion of the engine by distributing the shock
received by any one wheel or axle to all the other wheels and axles so connected, thus minimizing
the effects of an uneven roadbed. The author believes that the Pioneer is a hard-riding engine.

The springs of the main drives are mounted in the usual fashion. The rear boiler bracket (fig.
18) is slotted so that the spring hanger may pass through for its connection with the frame.
The spring of the leading wheels is set at right angles to the frame (fig. 27) and bears on
a beam, fabricated of iron plate, which in turn bears on the journal boxes. The springs of
the trailing wheels are set parallel with the frame and are mounted between the pedestal plates
(fig. 18).

The center of the driving wheel is cast iron and has spokes of the old rib pattern, which is
a T in cross section, and was used previous to the adoption of the hollow spoke wheel. In the
mid-1830's Baldwin and others used this rib-pattern style of wheel, except that the rib faced
inside. The present driving-wheel centers are unquestionably original. The sister engine Jenny
Lind (fig. 22) was equipped with identical driving wheels. The present tires are very thin
and beyond their last turning. They are wrought iron and shrunk to fit the wheel centers. Flush
rivets are used for further security. The left wheel, shown in figure 17, is cracked at the
hub and is fitted with an iron ring to prevent its breaking.

The truck wheels, of the hollow spoke pattern, are cast iron with chilled treads. They were
made by Asa Whitney, one of the leading car-wheel manufacturers in this country, whose extensive
plant was located in Philadelphia. Made under Whitney's patent of 1866, these wheels may well
have been added to the Pioneer during the 1871 rebuilding. Railroad wheels were not cast from
ordinary cast iron, which was too weak and brittle to stand the severe service for which they
were intended, but from a high-quality cast iron similar to that used for cannons. Its tensile
strength, which ranged from 31,000 to 36,000 psi, was remarkably high and very nearly approached
that of the best wrought-iron plate.

The cylinders are cast iron with an 8-1/2-inch bore about half the size of the cylinders of
a standard 8-wheel engine. The cylinders are bolted to the frame but not to the saddle, and
are set at a 9° angle to clear the leading wheels and at the same time to line up with the
center of the driving-wheel axle. The wood lagging is covered with a decorative brass jacket.
Ornamental brass jacketing was extensively used on mid-19th-century American locomotives to
cover not only the cylinders but steam and sand boxes, check valves, and valve boxes. The greater
expense for brass (Russia iron or painted sheet iron were a cheaper substitute) was justified
by the argument that brass lasted the life of the engine, and could be reclaimed for scrap
at a price approaching the original cost; and also that when brightly polished it reflected
the heat, preventing loss by radiation, and its bright surface could be seen a great distance,
thus helping to prevent accidents at grade crossings. The reader should be careful not to misconstrue
the above arguments simply as rationalization on the part of master mechanics more intent on
highly decorative machines than on the practical considerations involved.

The valve box, a separate casting, is fastened to the cylinder casting by six bolts. The side
cover plates when removed show only a small opening suitable for inspection and adjustment
of the valve. The valve box must be removed to permit repair or removal of the valve. A better
understanding of this mechanism and the layout of the parts can be gained from a study of figures
23-26, 28 (8, 8A, and 8B).

, (15) deflecting cone, (16) stack, (17) stack hopper. (Drawing by J. H. White.)]

Both crossheads were originally of cast iron but one of these has been replaced and is of steel.
They run into steel guides, bolted at the forward end to the rear cylinder head and supported
in the rear by a yoke. The yoke is one of the more finished and better made pieces on the entire
engine (fig. 27). The main rod is of the old pattern, round in cross section, and only 1-1/2
inches in diameter at the largest point.

VALVE GEAR

The valve gear is of the Stephenson shifting-link pattern (see fig. 27), a simple and dependable
motion used extensively in this country between about 1850 and 1900. The author believes that
this is the original valve gear of the Pioneer, since the first mention (1854) in the Annual
Report of the Cumberland Valley Railroad of the style of valve gear used by each engine, states
that the Pioneer was equipped with a shifting-link motion. Assuming this to be the original
valve gear of the Pioneer, it must be regarded as an early application, because the Stephenson
motion was just being introduced into American locomotive practice in the early 1850's. Four
eccentrics drive the motion; two are for forward motion and two for reverse. The link is split
and made of two curved pieces. The rocker is fabricated of several forged pieces keyed and
bolted together. On better made engines the rocker would be a one-piece forging. The lower
arm of each rocker is curiously shaped, made with a slot so that the link block may be adjusted.
Generally, the only adjustment possible was effected by varying the length of the valve stem
by the adjusting nuts provided. A simple weight and lever attached to the reversing shaft serve
as a counterbalance for the links and thus assist the engineer in shifting the valve motion.
There are eight positions on the quadrant of the reversing lever.

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES

The cab is solid walnut with a natural finish. It is very possible that the second cab was
added to the locomotive after the 1862 fire. A brass gong used by the conductor to signal the
engineer is fastened to the underside of the cab roof. This style of gong was in use in the
1850's and may well be original equipment.

The water tank is in two sections, one part extending below the deck, between the frame. The
tank holds 600 gallons of water. The tender holds one cord of wood.

The small pedestal-mounted sandbox was used on several Cumberland Valley engines including
the Pioneer. This box was removed from the engine sometime between 1901 and 1904. It was on
the engine at the time of the Carlisle sesquicentennial but disappeared by the time of the
St. Louis exposition. Two small sandboxes, mounted on the driving-wheel splash guards, replaced
the original box. The large headlamp (fig. 3) apparently disappeared at the same time and was
replaced by a crudely made lamp formerly mounted on the cab roof as a backup light. Headlamps
of commercial manufacture were carefully finished and made with parabolic reflectors, elaborate
burners, and handsomely fitted cases. Such a lamp could throw a beam of light for 1000 feet.
The present lamp has a flat cone-shaped piece of tin for a reflector.

The brushes attached to the pilot were used in the winter to brush snow and loose ice off the
rail and thus improve traction. In good weather the brushes were set up to clear the tracks.

After the Pioneer had come to the National Museum, it was decided that some refinishing was
required to return it as nearly as possible to the state of the original engine. Replacing
the sandbox was an obvious change.[20] The brass cylinder jackets were also replaced. The cab
was stripped and carefully refinished as natural wood. The old safety valve was replaced, as
already mentioned. Rejacketing the boiler with simulated Russia iron produced a most pleasing
effect, adding not only to the authenticity of the display but making the engine appear lighter
and relieving the somber blackness which was not characteristic of a locomotive of the 1850's.
Several minor replacements are yet to be done; chiefly among these are the cylinder-cock linkage
and a proper headlamp.

The question arises, has the engine survived as a true and accurate representation of the original
machine built in 1851? In answer, it can be said that although the Pioneer was damaged en route
to the Cumberland Valley Railroad, modified on receipt, burned in 1862, and operated for altogether
nearly 40 years, surprisingly few new appliances have been added, nor has the general arrangement
been changed. Undoubtedly, the main reason the engine is so little changed is that its small
size and odd framing did not invite any large investment for extensive alteration for other
uses. But there can be no positive answer as to its present variance from the original appearance
as represented in the oldest known illustration of it--the Hull drawing of 1871 (fig. 8). There
are few, if any, surviving 19th-century locomotives that have not suffered numerous rebuildings
and are not greatly altered from the original. The John Bull, also in the U.S. National Museum
collection, is a good example of a machine many times rebuilt in its 30 years of service.[21]
Unless other information is uncovered to the contrary, it can be stated that the Pioneer is
a true representation of a light passenger locomotive of 1851.

Alba F. Smith

Alba F. Smith, the man responsible for the purchase of the Pioneer, was born in Lebanon, Connecticut,
June 28, 1817.[9] Smith showed promise as a mechanic at an early age and by the time he was
22 had established leadpipe works in Norwich. His attention was drawn particularly to locomotives
since the tracks of the Norwich and Worcester Railroad passed his shop. His attempts to develop
a spark arrester for locomotives brought Smith to the favorable attention of Captain Daniel
Tyler (1799-1882), president of the Norwich and Worcester Railroad. When Tyler was hired by
the Cumberland Valley Railroad in 1850 to supervise the line's rebuilding, he persuaded the
managers of that road to hire Smith as superintendent of machinery.[10] Smith was appointed
as superintendent of the machine shop of the Cumberland Valley Railroad on July 22, 1850.[11]
On January 1, 1851, he became superintendent of the road.

In March of 1856 Smith resigned his position with the Cumberland Valley Railroad and became
superintendent of the Hudson River Railroad, where he remained for only a year. During that
time he designed the coal-burning locomotive Irvington, rebuilt the Waterman condensing dummy
locomotive for use in hauling trains through city streets, and developed a superheater.[12]

After retiring from the Hudson River Railroad he returned to Norwich and became active in enterprises
in that area, including the presidency of the Norwich and Worcester Railroad. While the last
years of Smith's life were devoted to administrative work, he found time for mechanical invention
as well. In 1862 he patented a safety truck for locomotives, and became president of a concern
which controlled the most important patents for such devices.[13] Alba F. Smith died on July
21, 1879, in Norwich, Connecticut.

MANUFACTURER OF

LOCOMOTIVES,

STATIONARY STEAM ENGINES AND STEAM BOILERS,

OF THE VARIOUS SIZES REQUIRED,

Parts connected with Railroads, including Frogs, Switches, Chairs and Hand Cars.

