THE PORTENT AND OTHER STORIES

By George MacDonald

THE PORTENT

A STORY OF THE INNER VISION OF THE HIGHLANDERS, COMMONLY CALLED THE SECOND SIGHT

DEDICATION.

MY DEAR SIR, KENSINGTON, May, 1864.

Allow me, with the honour due to my father's friend, to inscribe this little volume with your
name. The name of one friend is better than those of all the Muses.

And permit me to say a few words about the story.--It is a Romance. I am well aware that, with
many readers, this epithet will be enough to ensure condemnation. But there ought to be a place
for any story, which, although founded in the marvellous, is true to human nature and to itself.
Truth to Humanity, and harmony within itself, are almost the sole unvarying essentials of a
work of art. Even The Rime of the Ancient Mariner--than which what more marvellous?--is true
in these respects. And Shakespere himself will allow any amount of the marvellous, provided
this truth is observed. I hope my story is thus true; and therefore, while it claims some place,
undeserving of being classed with what are commonly called sensational novels.

I am well aware that such tales are not of much account, at present; and greatly would I regret
that they should ever become the fashion; of which, however, there is no danger. But, seeing
so much of our life must be spent in dreaming, may there not be a still nook, shadowy, but
not miasmatic, in some lowly region of literature, where, in the pauses of labour, a man may
sit down, and dream such a day-dream as I now offer to your acceptance, and that of those who
will judge the work, in part at least, by its purely literary claims? If I confined my pen
to such results, you, at least, would have a right to blame me. But you, for one, will, I am
sure, justify an author in dreaming sometimes.

In offering you a story, however, founded on The Second Sight, the belief in which was common
to our ancestors, I owe you, at the same time, an apology. For the tone and colour of the story
are so different from those naturally belonging to a Celtic tale, that you might well be inclined
to refuse my request, simply on the ground that your pure Highland blood revolted from the
degenerate embodiment given to the ancient belief. I can only say that my early education was
not Celtic enough to enable me to do better in this respect. I beg that you will accept the
offering with forgiveness, if you cannot with approbation.

Yours affectionately,

GEORGE MACDONALD.

To DUNCAN MCCOLL, Esq., R.N., Huntly.

CONTENTS

THE PORTENT

THE CRUEL PAINTER

THE CASTLE

THE WOW O' RIVVEN

THE BROKEN SWORDS

THE GRAY WOLF

UNCLE CORNELIUS HIS STORY

Chapter I

My Boyhood.

My father belonged to the widespread family of the Campbells, and possessed a small landed
property in the north of Argyll. But although of long descent and high connection, he was no
richer than many a farmer of a few hundred acres. For, with the exception of a narrow belt
of arable land at its foot, a bare hill formed almost the whole of his possessions. The sheep
ate over it, and no doubt found it good; I bounded and climbed all over it, and thought it
a kingdom. From my very childhood, I had rejoiced in being alone. The sense of room about me
had been one of my greatest delights. Hence, when my thoughts go back to those old years, it
is not the house, nor the family room, nor that in which I slept, that first of all rises before
my inward vision, but that desolate hill, the top of which was only a wide expanse of moorland,
rugged with height and hollow, and dangerous with deep, dark pools, but in many portions purple
with large-belled heather, and crowded with cranberry and blaeberry plants. Most of all, I
loved it in the still autumn morning, outstretched in stillness, high uplifted towards the
heaven. On every stalk hung the dew in tiny drops, which, while the rising sun was low, sparkled
and burned with the hues of all the gems. Here and there a bird gave a cry; no other sound
awoke the silence. I never see the statue of the Roman youth, praying with outstretched arms,
and open, empty, level palms, as waiting to receive and hold the blessing of the gods, but
that outstretched barren heath rises before me, as if it meant the same thing as the statue--or
were, at least, the fit room in the middle space of which to set the praying and expectant youth.

There was one spot upon the hill, half-way between the valley and the moorland, which was my
favourite haunt. This part of the hill was covered with great blocks of stone, of all shapes
and sizes--here crowded together, like the slain where the battle had been fiercest; there
parting asunder from spaces of delicate green--of softest grass. In the centre of one of these
green spots, on a steep part of the hill, were three huge rocks--two projecting out of the
hill, rather than standing up from it, and one, likewise projecting from the hill, but lying
across the tops of the two, so as to form a little cave, the back of which was the side of
the hill. This was my refuge, my home within a home, my study--and, in the hot noons, often
my sleeping chamber, and my house of dreams. If the wind blew cold on the hillside, a hollow
of lulling warmth was there, scooped as it were out of the body of the blast, which, sweeping
around, whistled keen and thin through the cracks and crannies of the rocky chaos that lay
all about; in which confusion of rocks the wind plunged, and flowed, and eddied, and withdrew,
as the sea-waves on the cliffy shores or the unknown rugged bottoms. Here I would often lie,
as the sun went down, and watch the silent growth of another sea, which the stormy ocean of
the wind could not disturb--the sea of the darkness. First it would begin to gather in the
bottom of hollow places. Deep valleys, and all little pits on the hill-sides, were well-springs
where it gathered, and whence it seemed to overflow, till it had buried the earth beneath its
mass, and, rising high into the heavens, swept over the faces of the stars, washed the blinding
day from them, and let them shine, down through the waters of the dark, to the eyes of men
below. I would lie till nothing but the stars and the dim outlines of hills against the sky
was to be seen, and then rise and go home, as sure of my path as if I had been descending a
dark staircase in my father's house.

On the opposite side the valley, another hill lay parallel to mine; and behind it, at some
miles' distance, a great mountain. As often as, in my hermit's cave, I lifted my eyes from
the volume I was reading, I saw this mountain before me. Very different was its character from
that of the hill on which I was seated. It was a mighty thing, a chieftain of the race, seamed
and scarred, featured with chasms and precipices and over-leaning rocks, themselves huge as
hills; here blackened with shade, there overspread with glory; interlaced with the silvery
lines of falling streams, which, hurrying from heaven to earth, cared not how they went, so
it were downwards. Fearful stories were told of the gulfs, sullen waters, and dizzy heights
upon that terror-haunted mountain. In storms the wind roared like thunder in its caverns and
along the jagged sides of its cliffs, but at other times that uplifted land-uplifted, yet secret
and full of dismay--lay silent as a cloud on the horizon.

I had a certain peculiarity of constitution, which I have some reason to believe I inherit.
It seems to have its root in an unusual delicacy of hearing, which often conveys to me sounds
inaudible to those about me. This I have had many opportunities of proving. It has likewise,
however, brought me sounds which I could never trace back to their origin; though they may
have arisen from some natural operation which I had not perseverance or mental acuteness sufficient
to discover. From this, or, it may be, from some deeper cause with which this is connected,
arose a certain kind of fearfulness associated with the sense of hearing, of which I have never
heard a corresponding instance. Full as my mind was of the wild and sometimes fearful tales
of a Highland nursery, fear never entered my mind by the eyes, nor, when I brooded over tales
of terror, and fancied new and yet more frightful embodiments of horror, did I shudder at any
imaginable spectacle, or tremble lest the fancy should become fact, and from behind the whin-bush
or the elder-hedge should glide forth the tall swaying form of the Boneless. When alone in
bed, I used to lie awake, and look out into the room, peopling it with the forms of all the
persons who had died within the scope of my memory and acquaintance. These fancied forms were
vividly present to my imagination. I pictured them pale, with dark circles around their hollow
eyes, visible by a light which glimmered within them; not the light of life, but a pale, greenish
phosphorescence, generated by the decay of the brain inside. Their garments were white and
trailing, but torn and soiled, as by trying often in vain to get up out of the buried coffin.
But so far from being terrified by these imaginings, I used to delight in them; and in the
long winter evenings, when I did not happen to have any book that interested me sufficiently,
I used even to look forward with expectation to the hour when, laying myself straight upon
my back, as if my bed were my coffin, I could call up from underground all who had passed away,
and see how they fared, yea, what progress they had made towards final dissolution of form--but
all the time, with my fingers pushed hard into my ears, lest the faintest sound should invade
the silent citadel of my soul. If inadvertently I removed one of my fingers, the agony of terror
I instantly experienced is indescribable. I can compare it to nothing but the rushing in upon
my brain of a whole churchyard of spectres. The very possibility of hearing a sound, in such
a mood, and at such a time, was almost enough to paralyse me. So I could scare myself in broad
daylight, on the open hillside, by imagining unintelligible sounds; and my imagination was
both original and fertile in the invention of such. But my mind was too active to be often
subjected to such influences. Indeed life would have been hardly endurable had these moods
been of more than occasional occurrence. As I grew older, I almost outgrew them. Yet sometimes
one awful dread would seize me--that, perhaps, the prophetic power manifest in the gift of
second sight, which, according to the testimony of my old nurse, had belonged to several of
my ancestors, had been in my case transformed in kind without losing its nature, transferring
its abode from the sight to the hearing, whence resulted its keenness, and my fear and suffering.

Chapter II

The Second Hearing.

One summer evening, I had lingered longer than usual in my rocky retreat: I had lain half dreaming
in the mouth of my cave, till the shadows of evening had fallen, and the gloaming had deepened
half-way towards the night. But the night had no more terrors for me than the day. Indeed,
in such regions there is a solitariness for which there seems a peculiar sense, and upon which
the shadows of night sink with a strange relief, hiding from the eye the wide space which yet
they throw more open to the imagination. When I lifted my head, only a star here and there
caught my eye; but, looking intently into the depths of blue-grey, I saw that they were crowded
with twinkles. The mountain rose before me, a huge mass of gloom; but its several peaks stood
out against the sky with a clear, pure, sharp outline, and looked nearer to me than the bulk
from which they rose heaven-wards. One star trembled and throbbed upon the very tip of the
loftiest, the central peak, which seemed the spire of a mighty temple where the light was worshipped--crowned,
therefore, in the darkness, with the emblem of the day. I was lying, as I have said, with this
fancy still in my thought, when suddenly I heard, clear, though faint and far away, the sound
as of the iron-shod hoofs of a horse, in furious gallop along an uneven rocky surface. It was
more like a distant echo than an original sound. It seemed to come from the face of the mountain,
where no horse, I knew, could go at that speed, even if its rider courted certain destruction.
There was a peculiarity, too, in the sound--a certain tinkle, or clank, which I fancied myself
able, by auricular analysis, to distinguish from the body of the sound. Supposing the sound
to be caused by the feet of a horse, the peculiarity was just such as would result from one
of the shoes being loose. A terror--strange even to my experience--seized me, and I hastened
home. The sounds gradually died away as I descended the hill. Could they have been an echo
from some precipice of the mountain? I knew of no road lying so that, if a horse were galloping
upon it, the sounds would be reflected from the mountain to me.

The next day, in one of my rambles, I found myself near the cottage of my old foster-mother,
who was distantly related to us, and was a trusted servant in the family at the time I was
born. On the death of my mother, which took place almost immediately after my birth, she had
taken the entire charge of me, and had brought me up, though with difficulty; for she used
to tell me, I should never be either folk or fairy. For some years she had lived alone in a
cottage, at the bottom of a deep green circular hollow, upon which, in walking over a healthy
table-land, one came with a sudden surprise. I was her frequent visitor. She was a tall, thin,
aged woman, with eager eyes, and well-defined clear-cut features. Her voice was harsh, but
with an undertone of great tenderness. She was scrupulously careful in her attire, which was
rather above her station. Altogether, she had much the bearing of a gentle-woman. Her devotion
to me was quite motherly. Never having had any family of her own, although she had been the
wife of one of my father's shepherds, she expended the whole maternity of her nature upon me.
She was always my first resource in any perplexity, for I was sure of all the help she could
give me. And as she had much influence with my father, who was rather severe in his notions,
I had had occasion to beg her interference. No necessity of this sort, however, had led to
my visit on the present occasion.

I ran down the side of the basin, and entered the little cottage. Nurse was seated on a chair
by the wall, with her usual knitting, a stocking, in one hand; but her hands were motionless,
and her eyes wide open and fixed. I knew that the neighbours stood rather in awe of her, on
the ground that she had the second sight; but, although she often told us frightful enough
stories, she had never alluded to such a gift as being in her possession. Now I concluded at
once that she was seeing. I was confirmed in this conclusion when, seeming to come to herself
suddenly, she covered her head with her plaid, and sobbed audibly, in spite of her efforts
to command herself. But I did not dare to ask her any questions, nor did she attempt any excuse
for her behaviour. After a few moments, she unveiled herself, rose, and welcomed me with her
usual kindness; then got me some refreshment, and began to question me about matters at home.
After a pause, she said suddenly: "When are you going to get your commission, Duncan, do you
know?" I replied that I had heard nothing of it; that I did not think my father had influence
or money enough to procure me one, and that I feared I should have no such good chance of distinguishing
myself. She did not answer, but nodded her head three times, slowly and with compressed lips--apparently
as much as to say, "I know better."

Just as I was leaving her, it occurred to me to mention that I had heard an odd sound the night
before. She turned towards me, and looked at me fixedly. "What was it like, Duncan, my dear?"

"Like a horse galloping with a loose shoe," I replied.

"Duncan, Duncan, my darling!" she said, in a low, trembling voice, but with passionate earnestness,
"you did not hear it? Tell me that you did not hear it! You only want to frighten poor old
nurse: some one has been telling you the story!"

It was my turn to be frightened now; for the matter became at once associated with my fears
as to the possible nature of my auricular peculiarities. I assured her that nothing was farther
from my intention than to frighten her; that, on the contrary, she had rather alarmed me; and
I begged her to explain. But she sat down white and trembling, and did not speak. Presently,
however, she rose again, and saying, "I have known it happen sometimes without anything very
bad following," began to put away the basin and plate I had been using, as if she would compel
herself to be calm before me. I renewed my entreaties for an explanation, but without avail.
She begged me to be content for a few days, as she was quite unable to tell the story at present.
She promised, however, of her own accord, that before I left home she would tell me all she knew.

The next day a letter arrived announcing the death of a distant relation, through whose influence
my father had had a lingering hope of obtaining an appointment for me. There was nothing left
but to look out for a situation as tutor.

CHAPTER III

My Old Nurses Story.

I was now almost nineteen. I had completed the usual curriculum of study at one of the Scotch
universities; and, possessed of a fair knowledge of mathematics and physics, and what I considered
rather more than a good foundation for classical and metaphysical acquirement, I resolved to
apply for the first suitable situation that offered. But I was spared the trouble. A certain
Lord Hilton, an English nobleman, residing in one of the midland counties, having heard that
one of my father's sons was desirous of such a situation, wrote to him, offering me the post
of tutor to his two boys, of the ages of ten and twelve. He had been partly educated at a Scotch
university; and this, it may be, had prejudiced him in favour of a Scotch tutor; while an ancient
alliance of the families by marriage was supposed by my nurse to be the reason of his offering
me the situation. Of this connection, however, my father said nothing to me, and it went for
nothing in my anticipations. I was to receive a hundred pounds a year, and to hold in the family
the position of a gentleman, which might mean anything or nothing, according to the disposition
of the heads of the family. Preparations for my departure were immediately commenced. I set
out one evening for the cottage of my old nurse, to bid her good-bye for many months, probably
years. I was to leave the next day for Edinburgh, on my way to London, whence I had to repair
by coach to my new abode--almost to me like the land beyond the grave, so little did I know
about it, and so wide was the separation between it and my home. The evening was sultry when
I began my walk, and before I arrived at its end, the clouds rising from all quarters of the
horizon, and especially gathering around the peaks of the mountain, betokened the near approach
of a thunderstorm. This was a great delight to me. Gladly would I take leave of my home with
the memory of a last night of tumultuous magnificence; followed, probably, by a day of weeping
rain, well suited to the mood of my own heart in bidding farewell to the best of parents and
the dearest of homes. Besides, in common with most Scotchmen who are young and hardy enough
to be unable to realise the existence of coughs and rheumatic fevers, it was a positive pleasure
to me to be out in rain, hail, or snow.

"I am come to bid you good-bye, Margaret; and to hear the story which you promised to tell
me before I left home: I go to-morrow."

"Do you go so soon, my darling? Well, it will be an awful night to tell it in; but, as I promised,
I suppose I must."

At the moment, two or three great drops of rain, the first of the storm, fell down the wide
chimney, exploding in the clear turf-fire.

"Yes, indeed you must," I replied.

After a short pause, she commenced. Of course she spoke in Gaelic; and I translate from my
recollection of the Gaelic; but rather from the impression left upon my mind, than from any
recollection of the words. She drew her chair near the fire, which we had reason to fear would
soon be put out by the falling rain, and began.

"How old the story is, I do not know. It has come down through many generations. My grandmother
told it to me as I tell it to you; and her mother and my mother sat beside, never interrupting,
but nodding their heads at every turn. Almost it ought to begin like the fairy tales, Once
upon a time,--it took place so long ago; but it is too dreadful and too true to tell like a
fairy tale.--There were two brothers, sons of the chief of our clan, but as different in appearance
and disposition as two men could be. The elder was fair-haired and strong, much given to hunting
and fishing; fighting too, upon occasion, I dare say, when they made a foray upon the Saxon,
to get back a mouthful of their own. But he was gentleness itself to every one about him, and
the very soul of honour in all his doings. The younger was very dark in complexion, and tall
and slender compared to his brother. He was very fond of book-learning, which, they say, was
an uncommon taste in those times. He did not care for any sports or bodily exercises but one;
and that, too, was unusual in these parts. It was horsemanship. He was a fierce rider, and
as much at home in the saddle as in his study-chair. You may think that, so long ago, there
was not much fit room for riding hereabouts; but, fit or not fit, he rode. From his reading
and riding, the neighbours looked doubtfully upon him, and whispered about the black art. He
usually bestrode a great powerful black horse, without a white hair on him; and people said
it was either the devil himself, or a demon-horse from the devil's own stud. What favoured
this notion was, that, in or out of the stable, the brute would let no other than his master
go near him. Indeed, no one would venture, after he had killed two men, and grievously maimed
a third, tearing him with his teeth and hoofs like a wild beast. But to his master he was obedient
as a hound, and would even tremble in his presence sometimes.

"The youth's temper corresponded to his habits. He was both gloomy and passionate. Prone to
anger, he had never been known to forgive. Debarred from anything on which he had set his heart,
he would have gone mad with longing if he had not gone mad with rage. His soul was like the
night around us now, dark, and sultry, and silent, but lighted up by the red levin of wrath
and torn by the bellowings of thunder-passion. He must have his will: hell might have his soul.
Imagine, then, the rage and malice in his heart, when he suddenly became aware that an orphan
girl, distantly related to them, who had lived with them for nearly two years, and whom he
had loved for almost all that period, was loved by his elder brother, and loved him in return.
He flung his right hand above his head, swore a terrible oath that if he might not, his brother
should not, rushed out of the house, and galloped off among the hills.

"The orphan was a beautiful girl, tall, pale, and slender, with plentiful dark hair, which,
when released from the snood, rippled down below her knees. Her appearance formed a strong
contrast with that of her favoured lover, while there was some resemblance between her and
the younger brother. This fact seemed, to his fierce selfishness, ground for a prior claim.

"It may appear strange that a man like him should not have had instant recourse to his superior
and hidden knowledge, by means of which he might have got rid of his rival with far more of
certainty and less of risk; but I presume that, for the moment, his passion overwhelmed his
consciousness of skill. Yet I do not suppose that he foresaw the mode in which his hatred was
about to operate. At the moment when he learned their mutual attachment, probably through a
domestic, the lady was on her way to meet her lover as he returned from the day's sport. The
appointed place was on the edge of a deep, rocky ravine, down in whose dark bosom brawled and
foamed a little mountain torrent. You know the place, Duncan, my dear, I dare say."

(Here she gave me a minute description of the spot, with directions how to find it.)

"Whether any one saw what I am about to relate, or whether it was put together afterwards,
I cannot tell. The story is like an old tree--so old that it has lost the marks of its growth.
But this is how my grandmother told it to me.--An evil chance led him in the right direction.
The lovers, startled by the sound of the approaching horse, parted in opposite directions along
a narrow mountain-path on the edge of the ravine. Into this path he struck at a point near
where the lovers had met, but to opposite sides of which they had now receded; so that he was
between them on the path. Turning his horse up the course of the stream, he soon came in sight
of his brother on the ledge before him. With a suppressed scream of rage, he rode head-long
at him, and ere he had time to make the least defence, hurled him over the precipice. The helplessness
of the strong man was uttered in one single despairing cry as he shot into the abyss. Then
all was still. The sound of his fall could not reach the edge of the gulf. Divining in a moment
that the lady, whose name was Elsie, must have fled in the opposite direction, he reined his
steed on his haunches. He could touch the precipice with his bridle-hand half outstretched;
his sword-hand half outstretched would have dropped a stone to the bottom of the ravine. There
was no room to wheel. One desperate practicability alone remained. Turning his horse's head
towards the edge, he compelled him, by means of the powerful bit, to rear till he stood almost
erect; and so, his body swaying over the gulf, with quivering and straining muscles, to turn
on his hind-legs. Having completed the half-circle, he let him drop, and urged him furiously
in the opposite direction. It must have been by the devil's own care that he was able to continue
his gallop along that ledge of rock.

"He soon caught sight of the maiden. She was leaning, half fainting, against the precipice.
She had heard her lover's last cry, and although it had conveyed no suggestion of his voice
to her ear, she trembled from head to foot, and her limbs would bear her no farther. He checked
his speed, rode gently up to her, lifted her unresisting, laid her across the shoulders of
his horse, and, riding carefully till he reached a more open path, dashed again wildly along
the mountain-side. The lady's long hair was shaken loose, and dropped trailing on the ground.
The horse trampled upon it, and stumbled, half dragging her from the saddle-bow. He caught
her, lifted her up, and looked at her face. She was dead. I suppose he went mad. He laid her
again across the saddle before him, and rode on, reckless whither. Horse, and man, and maiden
were found the next day, lying at the foot of a cliff, dashed to pieces. It was observed that
a hind-shoe of the horse was loose and broken. Whether this had been the cause of his fall,
could not be told; but ever when he races, as race he will, till the day of doom, along that
mountain-side, his gallop is mingled with the clank of the loose and broken shoe. For, like
the sin, the punishment is awful: he shall carry about for ages the phantom-body of the girl,
knowing that her soul is away, sitting with the soul of his brother, down in the deep ravine,
or scaling with him the topmost crags of the towering mountain-peaks. There are some who, from
time to time, see the doomed man careering along the face of the mountain, with the lady hanging
across the steed; and they say it always betokens a storm, such as this which is now raving
around us."

I had not noticed till now, so absorbed had I been in her tale, that the storm had risen to
a very ecstasy of fury.

"They say, likewise, that the lady's hair is still growing; for, every time they see her, it
is longer than before; and that now such is its length and the head-long speed of the horse,
that it floats and streams out behind, like one of those curved clouds, like a comet's tail,
far up in the sky; only the cloud is white, and the hair dark as night. And they say it will
go on growing till the Last Day, when the horse will falter and her hair will gather in; and
the horse will fall, and the hair will twist, and twine, and wreathe itself like a mist of
threads about him, and blind him to everything but her. Then the body will rise up within it,
face to face with him, animated by a fiend, who, twining her arms around him, will drag him
down to the bottomless pit."

I may mention something which now occurred, and which had a strange effect on my old nurse.
It illustrates the assertion that we see around us only what is within us: marvellous things
enough will show themselves to the marvellous mood.--During a short lull in the storm, just
as she had finished her story, we heard the sound of iron-shod hoofs approaching the cottage.
There was no bridle-way into the glen. A knock came to the door, and, on opening it, we saw
an old man seated on a horse, with a long slenderly-filled sack lying across the saddle before
him. He said he had lost the path in the storm, and, seeing the light, had scrambled down to
inquire his way. I perceived at once, from the scared and mysterious look of the old woman's
eyes, that she was persuaded that this appearance had more than a little to do with the awful
rider, the terrific storm, and myself who had heard the sound of the phantom-hoofs. As he ascended
the hill, she looked after him, with wide and pale but unshrinking eyes; then turning in, shut
and locked the door behind her, as by a natural instinct. After two or three of her significant
nods, accompanied by the compression of her lips, she said:--

"He need not think to take me in, wizard as he is, with his disguises. I can see him through
them all. Duncan, my dear, when you suspect anything, do not be too incredulous. This human
demon is of course a wizard still, and knows how to make himself, as well as anything he touches,
take a quite different appearance from the real one; only every appearance must bear some resemblance,
however distant, to the natural form. That man you saw at the door was the phantom of which
I have been telling you. What he is after now, of course, I cannot tell; but you must keep
a bold heart, and a firm and wary foot, as you go home to-night."

I showed some surprise, I do not doubt; and, perhaps, some fear as well; but I only said, "How
do you know him, Margaret?"

"I can hardly tell you," she replied; "but I do know him. I think he hates me. Often, of a
wild night, when there is moonlight enough by fits, I see him tearing around this little valley,
just on the top edge--all round; the lady's hair and the horses mane and tail driving far behind,
and mingling, vaporous, with the stormy clouds. About he goes, in wild careering gallop; now
lost as the moon goes in, then visible far round when she looks out again--an airy, pale-grey
spectre, which few eyes but mine could see; for, as far as I am aware, no one of the family
but myself has ever possessed the double gift of seeing and hearing both. In this case I hear
no sound, except now and then a clank from the broken shoe. But I did not mean to tell you
that I had ever seen him. I am not a bit afraid of him. He cannot do more than he may. His
power is limited; else ill enough would he work, the miscreant."

"But," said I, "what has all this, terrible as it is, to do with the fright you took at my
telling you that I had heard the sound of the broken shoe? Surely you are not afraid of only
a storm?"

"No, my boy; I fear no storm. But the fact is, that that sound is seldom heard, and never,
as far as I know, by any of the blood of that wicked man, without betokening some ill to one
of the family, and most probably to the one who hears it--but I am not quite sure about that.
Only some evil it does portend, although a long time may elapse before it shows itself; and
I have a hope it may mean some one else than you."

"Do not wish that," I replied. "I know no one better able to bear it than I am; and I hope,
whatever it may be, that I only shall have to meet it. It must surely be something serious
to be so foretold--it can hardly be connected with my disappointment in being compelled to
be a pedagogue instead of a soldier."

"Do not trouble yourself about that, Duncan," replied she. "A soldier you must be. The same
day you told me of the clank of the broken horseshoe, I saw you return wounded from battle,
and fall fainting from your horse in the street of a great city--only fainting, thank God.
But I have particular reasons for being uneasy at your hearing that boding sound. Can you tell
me the day and hour of your birth?"

"No," I replied. "It seems very odd when I think of it, but I really do not know even the day."

"Nor any one else; which is stranger still," she answered.

"How does that happen, nurse?"

"We were in terrible anxiety about your mother at the time. So ill was she, after you were
just born, in a strange, unaccountable way, that you lay almost neglected for more than an
hour. In the very act of giving birth to you, she seemed to the rest around her to be out of
her mind, so wildly did she talk; but I knew better. I knew that she was fighting some evil
power; and what power it was, I knew full well; for twice, during her pains, I heard the click
of the horseshoe. But no one could help her. After her delivery, she lay as if in a trance,
neither dead, nor at rest, but as if frozen to ice, and conscious of it all the while. Once
more I heard the terrible sound of iron; and, at the moment, your mother started from her trance,
screaming, 'My child! my child!' We suddenly became aware that no one had attended to the child,
and rushed to the place where he lay wrapped in a blanket. Uncovering him, we found him black
in the face, and spotted with dark spots upon the throat. I thought he was dead; but, with
great and almost hopeless pains, we succeeded in making him breathe, and he gradually recovered.
But his mother continued dreadfully exhausted. It seemed as if she had spent her life for her
child's defence and birth. That was you, Duncan, my dear.

"I was in constant attendance upon her. About a week after your birth, as near as I can guess,
just in the gloaming, I heard yet again the awful clank--only once. Nothing followed till about
midnight. Your mother slept, and you lay asleep beside her. I sat by the bedside. A horror
fell upon me suddenly, though I neither saw nor heard anything. Your mother started from her
sleep with a cry, which sounded as if it came from far away, out of a dream, and did not belong
to this world. My blood curdled with fear. She sat up in bed, with wide staring eyes and half-open
rigid lips, and, feeble as she was, thrust her arms straight out before her with great force,
her hands open and lifted up, with the palms outwards. The whole action was of one violently
repelling another. She began to talk wildly as she had done before you were born, but, though
I seemed to hear and understand it all at the time, I could not recall a word of it afterwards.
It was as if I had listened to it when half asleep. I attempted to soothe her, putting my arms
round her, but she seemed quite unconscious of my presence, and my arms seemed powerless upon
the fixed muscles of hers. Not that I tried to constrain her, for I knew that a battle was
going on of some kind or other, and my interference might do awful mischief. I only tried to
comfort and encourage her. All the time, I was in a state of indescribable cold and suffering,
whether more bodily or mental I could not tell. But at length I heard yet again the clank of
the shoe A sudden peace seemed to fall upon my mind--or was it a warm, odorous wind that filled
the room? Your mother dropped her arms, and turned feebly towards her baby. She saw that he
slept a blessed sleep. She smiled like a glorified spirit, and fell back exhausted on the pillow.
I went to the other side of the room to get a cordial. When I returned to the bedside, I saw
at once that she was dead. Her face smiled still, with an expression of the uttermost bliss."

Nurse ceased, trembling as overcome by the recollection; and I was too much moved and awed
to speak. At length, resuming the conversation, she said: "You see it is no wonder, Duncan,
my dear, if, after all this, I should find, when I wanted to fix the date of your birth, that
I could not determine the day or the hour when it took place. All was confusion in my poor
brain. But it was strange that no one else could, any more than I. One thing only I can tell
you about it. As I carried you across the room to lay you down, for I assisted at your birth,
I happened to look up to the window. Then I saw what I did not forget, although I did not think
of it again till many days after,--a bright star was shining on the very tip of the thin crescent
moon."

"Oh, then," said I, "it is possible to determine the day and the very hour when my birth took
place."

"See the good of book-learning!" replied she. "When you work it out, just let me know, my dear,
that I may remember it."

"That I will."

A silence of some moments followed. Margaret resumed:--

"I am afraid you will laugh at my foolish fancies, Duncan; but in thinking over all these things,
as you may suppose I often do, lying awake in my lonely bed, the notion sometimes comes to
me: What if my Duncan be the youth whom his wicked brother hurled into the ravine, come again
in a new body, to live out his life on the earth, cut short by his brother's hatred? If so,
his persecution of you, and of your mother for your sake, is easy to understand. And if so,
you will never be able to rest till you find your fere, wherever she may have been born on
the face of the earth. For born she must be, long ere now, for you to find. I misdoubt me much,
however, if you will find her without great conflict and suffering between, for the Powers
of Darkness will be against you; though I have good hope that you will overcome at last. You
must forgive the fancies of a foolish old woman, my dear."

I will not try to describe the strange feelings, almost sensations, that arose in me while
listening to these extraordinary utterances, lest it should be supposed I was ready to believe
all that Margaret narrated or concluded. I could not help doubting her sanity; but no more
could I help feeling very peculiarly moved by her narrative.

Few more words were spoken on either side, but after receiving renewed exhortations to carefulness
on my way home, I said good-bye to dear old nurse, considerably comforted, I must confess,
that I was not doomed to be a tutor all my days; for I never questioned the truth of that vision
and its consequent prophecy.

I went out into the midst of the storm, into the alternating throbs of blackness and radiance;
now the possessor of no more room than what my body filled, and now isolated in world-wide
space. And the thunder seemed to follow me, bellowing after me as I went.

Absorbed in the story I had heard, I took my way, as I thought, homewards. The whole country
was well known to me. I should have said, before that night, that I could have gone home blindfold.
Whether the lightning bewildered me and made me take a false turn, I cannot tell; for the hardest
thing to understand, in intellectual as well as moral mistakes, is--how we came to go wrong.
But after wandering for some time, plunged in meditation, and with no warning whatever of the
presence of inimical powers, a brilliant lightning-flash showed me that at least I was not
near home. The light was prolonged for a second or two by a slight electric pulsation; and
by that I distinguished a wide space of blackness on the ground in front of me. Once more wrapped
in the folds of a thick darkness, I dared not move. Suddenly it occurred to me what the blackness
was, and whither I had wandered. It was a huge quarry, of great depth, long disused, and half
filled with water. I knew the place perfectly. A few more steps would have carried me over
the brink. I stood still, waiting for the next flash, that I might be quite sure of the way
I was about to take before I ventured to move. While I stood, I fancied I heard a single hollow
plunge in the black water far below. When the lightning came, I turned, and took my path in
another direction.

After walking for some time across the heath, I fell. The fall became a roll, and down a steep
declivity I went, over and over, arriving at the bottom uninjured.

Another flash soon showed me where I was-in the hollow valley, within a couple of hundred yards
from nurse's cottage. I made my way towards it. There was no light in it, except the feeblest
glow from the embers of her peat fire. "She is in bed," I said to myself, "and I will not disturb
her." Yet something drew me towards the little window. I looked in. At first I could see nothing.
At length, as I kept gazing, I saw something, indistinct in the darkness, like an outstretched
human form.

By this time the storm had lulled. The moon had been up for some time, but had been quite concealed
by tempestuous clouds. Now, however, these had begun to break up; and, while I stood looking
into the cottage, they scattered away from the face of the moon, and a faint vapoury gleam
of her light, entering the cottage through a window opposite that at which I stood, fell directly
on the face of my old nurse, as she lay on her back, outstretched upon chairs, pale as death,
and with her eyes closed. The light fell nowhere but on her face. A stranger to her habits
would have thought she was dead; but she had so much of the appearance she had had on a former
occasion, that I concluded at once she was in one of her trances. But having often heard that
persons in such a condition ought not to be disturbed, and feeling quite sure she knew best
how to manage herself, I turned, though reluctantly, and left the lone cottage behind me in
the night, with the death-like woman lying motionless in the midst of it.

I found my way home without any further difficulty, and went to bed, where I soon fell asleep,
thoroughly wearied, more by the mental excitement I had been experiencing than by the amount
of bodily exercise I had gone through.

My sleep was tormented with awful dreams; yet, strange to say, I awoke in the morning refreshed
and fearless. The sun was shining through the chinks in my shutters, which had been closed
because of the storm, and was making streaks and bands of golden brilliancy upon the wall.
I had dressed and completed my preparations long before I heard the steps of the servant who
came to call me.

What a wonderful thing waking is! The time of the ghostly moonshine passes by, and the great
positive sunlight comes. A man who dreams, and knows that he is dreaming, thinks he knows what
waking is; but knows it so little, that he mistakes, one after another, many a vague and dim
change in his dream for an awaking. When the true waking comes at last, he is filled and overflowed
with the power of its reality. So, likewise, one who, in the darkness, lies waiting for the
light about to be struck, and trying to conceive, with all the force of his imagination, what
the light will be like, is yet, when the reality flames up before him, seized as by a new and
unexpected thing, different from and beyond all his imagining. He feels as if the darkness
were cast to an infinite distance behind him. So shall it be with us when we wake from this
dream of life into the truer life beyond, and find all our present notions of being, thrown
back as into a dim, vapoury region of dreamland, where yet we thought we knew, and whence we
looked forward into the present. This must be what Novalis means when he says: "Our life is
not a dream; but it may become a dream, and perhaps ought to become one."

And so I looked back upon the strange history of my past; sometimes asking myself,--"Can it
be that all this realty happened to the same me, who am now thinking about it in doubt and wonder?"

CHAPTER IV

Hilton Hall.

As my father accompanied me to the door, where the gig, which was to carry me over the first
stage of my journey, was in waiting, a large target of hide, well studded with brass nails,
which had hung in the hall for time unknown--to me, at least--fell on the floor with a dull
bang. My father started, but said nothing; and, as it seemed to me, rather pressed my departure
than otherwise. I would have replaced the old piece of armour before I went, but he would not
allow me to touch it, saying, with a grim smile,--

"Take that for an omen, my boy, that your armour must be worn over the conscience, and not
over the body. Be a man, Duncan, my boy. Fear nothing, and do your duty."

A grasp of the hand was all the good-bye I could make; and I was soon rattling away to meet
the coach for Edinburgh and London. Seated on the top, I was soon buried in a reverie, from
which I was suddenly startled by the sound of tinkling iron. Could it be that my adversary
was riding unseen alongside of the coach? Was that the clank of the ominous shoe? But I soon
discovered the cause of the sound, and laughed at my own apprehensiveness. For I observed that
the sound was repeated every time that we passed any trees by the wayside, and that it was
the peculiar echo they gave of the loose chain and steel work about the harness. The sound
was quite different from that thrown back by the houses on the road. I became perfectly familiar
with it before the day was over.

I reached London in safety, and slept at the house of an old friend of my father, who treated
me with great kindness, and seemed altogether to take a liking to me. Before I left he held
out a hope of being able, some day or other, to procure for me what I so much desired--a commission
in the army.

After spending a day or two with him, and seeing something of London, I climbed once more on
the roof of a coach; and, late in the afternoon, was set down at the great gate of Hilton Hall.
I walked up the broad avenue, through the final arch of which, as through a huge Gothic window,
I saw the hall in the distance. Everything about me looked strange, rich, and lovely. Accustomed
to the scanty flowers and diminutive wood of my own country, what I now saw gave me a feeling
of majestic plenty, which I can recall at will, but which I have never experienced again. Behind
the trees which formed the avenue, I saw a shrubbery, composed entirely of flowering plants,
almost all unknown to me. Issuing from the avenue, I found myself amid open, wide, lawny spaces,
in which the flower-beds lay like islands of colour. A statue on a pedestal, the only white
thing in the surrounding green, caught my eye. I had seen scarcely any sculpture; and this,
attracting my attention by a favourite contrast of colour, retained it by its own beauty. It
was a Dryad, or some nymph of the woods, who had just glided from the solitude of the trees
behind, and had sprung upon the pedestal to look wonderingly around her. A few large brown
leaves lay at her feet, borne thither by some eddying wind from the trees behind. As I gazed,
filled with a new pleasure, a drop of rain upon my face made me look up. From a grey, fleecy
cloud, with sun-whitened border, a light, gracious, plentiful rain was falling. A rainbow sprang
across the sky, and the statue stood within the rainbow. The date of the separate titles is
1729, published by Samuel Birt at the Bible and Ball on Ave Maria Lane.
This information might help Mr. Denton out, and it would be interesting to see who did write the
piece.

I followed in the direction of the mansion, which was large, and of several styles and ages.
One wing appeared especially ancient. It was neglected and out of repair, and had in consequence
a desolate, almost sepulchral look, an expression heightened by the number of large cypresses
which grew along its line. I went up to the central door and knocked. It was opened by a grave,
elderly butler. I passed under its flat arch, as if into the midst of the waiting events of
my story. For, as I glanced around the hall, my consciousness was suddenly saturated, if I
may be allowed the expression, with the strange feeling--known to everyone, and yet so strange--that
I had seen it before; that, in fact, I knew it perfectly. But what was yet more strange, and
far more uncommon, was, that, although the feeling with regard to the hall faded and vanished
instantly, and although I could not in the least surmise the appearance of any of the regions
into which I was about to be ushered, I yet followed the butler with a kind of indefinable
expectation of seeing something which I had seen before; and every room or passage in that
mansion affected me, on entering it for the first time, with the same sensation of previous
acquaintance which I had experienced with regard to the hall. This sensation, in every case,
died away at once, leaving that portion such as it might be expected to look to one who had
never before entered the place.

I was received by the housekeeper, a little, prim, benevolent old lady, with colourless face
and antique head-dress, who led me to the room prepared for me. To my surprise, I found a large
wood-fire burning on the hearth; but the feeling of the place revealed at once the necessity
for it; and I scarcely needed to be informed that the room, which was upon the ground floor,
and looked out upon a little solitary grass-grown and ivy-mantled court, had not been used
for years, and therefore required to be thus prepared for an inmate. My bedroom was a few paces
down a passage to the right.

Left alone, I proceeded to make a more critical survey of my room. Its look of ancient mystery
was to me incomparably more attractive than any show of elegance or comfort could have been.
It was large and low, panelled throughout in oak, black with age, and worm-eaten in many parts--otherwise
entire. Both the windows looked into the little court or yard before mentioned. All the heavier
furniture of the room was likewise of black oak, but the chairs and couches were covered with
faded tapestry and tarnished gilding, apparently the superannuated members of the general household
of seats. I could give an individual description of each, for every atom in that room, large
enough for discernable shape or colour, seems branded into my brain. If I happen to have the
least feverishness on me, the moment I fall asleep, I am in that room.

CHAPTER V

Lady Alice.

When the bell rang for dinner, I managed to find my way to the drawing-room, where were assembled
Lady Hilton, her only daughter, a girl of about thirteen, and the two boys, my pupils. Lady
Hilton would have been pleasant, could she have been as natural as she wished to appear. She
received me with some degree of kindness; but the half-cordiality of her manner towards me
was evidently founded on the impassableness of the gulf between us. I knew at once that we
should never be friends; that she would never come down from the lofty table-land upon which
she walked; and that if, after being years in the house, I should happen to be dying, she would
send the housekeeper to me. All right, no doubt; I only say that it was so. She introduced
to me my pupils; fine, open-eyed, manly English boys, with something a little overbearing in
their manner, which speedily disappeared in relation to me. Lord Hilton was not at home. Lady
Hilton led the way to the dining-room; the elder boy gave his arm to his sister, and I was
about to follow with the younger, when from one of the deep bay windows glided out, still in
white, the same figure which had passed me upon the lawn. I started, and drew back. With a
slight bow, she preceded me, and followed the others down the great staircase. Seated at table,
I had leisure to make my observations upon them all; but most of my glances found their way
to the lady who, twice that day, had affected me like an apparition. What is time, but the
airy ocean in which ghosts come and go!

She was about twenty years of age; rather above the middle height, and rather slight in form;
her complexion white rather than pale, her face being only less white than the deep marbly
whiteness of her arms. Her eyes were large, and full of liquid night--a night throbbing with
the light of invisible stars. Her hair seemed raven-black, and in quantity profuse. The expression
of her face, however, generally partook more of vagueness than any other characteristic. Lady
Hilton called her Lady Alice; and she never addressed Lady Hilton but in the same ceremonious
style.

I afterwards learned from the old house-keeper, that Lady Alice's position in the family was
a very peculiar one. Distantly connected with Lord Hilton's family on the mother's side, she
was the daughter of the late Lord Glendarroch, and step-daughter to Lady Hilton, who had become
Lady Hilton within a year after Lord Glendarroch's death. Lady Alice, then quite a child, had
accompanied her stepmother, to whom she was moderately attached, and who had been allowed to
retain undisputed possession of her. She had no near relatives, else the fortune I afterwards
found to be at her disposal would have aroused contending claims to the right of guardianship.

Although she was in many respects kindly treated by her stepmother, certain peculiarities tended
to her isolation from the family pursuits and pleasures. Lady Alice had no accomplishments.
She could neither spell her own language, nor even read it aloud. Yet she delighted in reading
to herself, though, for the most part, books which Mrs. Wilson characterised as very odd. Her
voice, when she spoke, had a quite indescribable music in it; yet she neither sang nor played.
Her habitual motion was more like a rhythmical gliding than an ordinary walk, yet she could
not dance. Mrs. Wilson hinted at other and more serious peculiarities, which she either could
not, or would not describe; always shaking her head gravely and sadly, and becoming quite silent,
when I pressed for further explanation; so that, at last, I gave up all attempts to arrive
at an understanding of the mystery by her means. Not the less, however, I speculated on the
subject.

One thing soon became evident to me: that she was considered not merely deficient as to the
power of intellectual acquirement, but in a quite abnormal intellectual condition. Of this,
however, I could myself see no sign. The peculiarity, almost oddity, of some of her remarks,
was evidently not only misunderstood, but, with relation to her mental state, misinterpreted.
Such remarks Lady Hilton generally answered only by an elongation of the lips intended to represent
a smile. To me, they appeared to indicate a nature closely allied to genius, if not identical
with it-a power of regarding things from an original point of view, which perhaps was the more
unfettered in its operation from the fact that she was incapable of looking at them in the
ordinary common-place way. It seemed to me, sometimes, as if her point of observation was outside
of the sphere within which the thing observed took place; and as if what she said, had a relation,
occasionally, to things and thoughts and mental conditions familiar to her, but at which not
even a definite guess could be made by me. I am compelled to acknowledge, however, that with
such utterances as these mingled now and then others, silly enough for any drawing-room young
lady; which seemed again to be accepted by the family as proofs that she was not altogether
out of her right mind. She was gentle and kind to the children, as they were still called;
and they seemed reasonably fond of her.

There was something to me exceedingly touching in the solitariness of this girl; for no one
spoke to her as if she were like other people, or as if any heartiness were possible between
them. Perhaps no one could have felt quite at home with her but a mother, whose heart had been
one with hers from a season long anterior to the development of any repulsive oddity. But her
position was one of peculiar isolation, for no one really approached her individual being;
and that she should be unaware of this loneliness, seemed to me saddest of all. I soon found,
however, that the most distant attempt on my part to show her attention, was either received
with absolute indifference, or coldly repelled without the slightest acknowledgment.

But I return to the first night of my sojourn at Hilton Hall.

CHAPTER VI

My Quarters.

After making arrangements for commencing work in the morning, I took my leave, and retired
to my own room, intent upon carrying out with more minuteness the survey I had already commenced:
several cupboards in the wall, and one or two doors, apparently of closets, had especially
attracted my attention. Strange was its look as I entered--as of a room hollowed out of the
past, for a memorial of dead times. The fire had sunk low, and lay smouldering beneath the
white ashes, like the life of the world beneath the snow, or the heart of a man beneath cold
and grey thoughts. I lighted the candles which stood upon the table, but the room, instead
of being brightened looked blacker than before, for the light revealed its essential blackness.

As I cast my eyes around me, standing with my back to the hearth (on which, for mere companionship's
sake, I had just heaped fresh wood), a thrill ran suddenly throughout my frame. I felt as if,
did it last a moment longer, I should become aware of another presence in the room; but, happily
for me, it ceased before it had reached that point; and I, recovering my courage, remained
ignorant of the cause of my fear, if there were any, other than the nature of the room itself.
With a candle in my hand, I proceeded to open the various cupboards and closets. At first I
found nothing remarkable about any of them. The latter were quite empty, except the last I
came to, which had a piece of very old elaborate tapestry hanging at the back of it. Lifting
this up, I saw what seemed at first to be panels, corresponding to those which formed the room;
but on looking more closely, I discovered that this back of the closet was, or had been, a
door. There was nothing unusual in this, especially in such an old house; but the discovery
roused in me a strong desire to know what lay behind the old door. I found that it was secured
only by an ordinary bolt, from which the handle had been removed. Soothing my conscience with
the reflection that I had a right to know what sort of place had communication with my room,
I succeeded, by the help of my deer-knife, in forcing back the rusty bolt; and though, from
the stiffness of the hinges, I dreaded a crack, they yielded at last with only a creak.

The opening door revealed a large hall, empty utterly, save of dust and cobwebs, which festooned
it in all quarters, and gave it an appearance of unutterable desolation. The now familiar feeling,
that I had seen the place before, filled my mind the first moment, and passed away the next.
A broad, right-angled staircase, with massive banisters, rose from the middle of the hall.
This staircase could not have originally belonged to the ancient wing which I had observed
on my first approach, being much more modern; but I was convinced, from the observations I
had made as to the situation of my room, that I was bordering upon, if not within, the oldest
portion of the pile. In sudden horror, lest I should hear a light footfall upon the awful stair,
I withdrew hurriedly, and having secured both the doors, betook myself to my bedroom; in whose
dingy four-post bed, with its carving and plumes reminding me of a hearse, I was soon ensconced
amidst the snowiest linen, with the sweet and clean odour of lavender. In spite of novelty,
antiquity, speculation, and dread, I was soon fast asleep; becoming thereby a fitter inhabitant
of such regions, than when I moved about with restless and disturbing curiosity, through their
ancient and death-like repose.

I made no use of my discovered door, although I always intended doing so; especially after,
in talking about the building with Lady Hilton, I found that I was at perfect liberty to make
what excursions I pleased into the deserted portions.

My pupils turned out to be teachable, and therefore my occupation was pleasant. Their sister
frequently came to me for help, as there happened to be just then an interregnum of governesses:
soon she settled into a regular pupil.

After a few weeks Lord Hilton returned. Though my room was so far from the great hall, I heard
the clank of his spurs on its pavement. I trembled; for it sounded like the broken shoe. But
I shook off the influence in a moment, heartily ashamed of its power over me. Soon I became
familiar enough both with the sound and its cause; for his lordship rarely went anywhere except
on horseback, and was booted and spurred from morning till night.

He received me with some appearance of interest, which immediately stiffened and froze. Beginning
to shake hands with me as if he meant it, he instantly dropped my hand, as if it had stung him.

His nobility was of that sort which stands in constant need of repair. Like a weakly constitution,
it required keeping up, and his lordship could not be said to neglect it; for he seemed to
find his principal employment in administering continuous doses of obsequiousness to his own
pride. His rank, like a coat made for some large ancestor, hung loose upon him: he was always
trying to persuade himself that it was an excellent fit, but ever with an unacknowledged misgiving.
This misgiving might have done him good, had he not met it with renewed efforts at looking
that which he feared he was not. Yet this man was capable of the utmost persistency in carrying
out any scheme he had once devised. Enough of him for the present: I seldom came into contact
with him.

I scarcely ever saw Lady Alice, except at dinner, or by accidental meeting in the grounds and
passages of the house; and then she took no notice of me whatever.

CHAPTER VII

The Library.

One day, a week after his arrival, Lord Hilton gave a dinner-party to some of his neighbours
and tenants. I entered the drawing-room rather late, and saw that, though there were many guests,
not one was talking to Lady Alice. She appeared, however, altogether unconscious of neglect.
Presently dinner was announced, and the company marshalled themselves, and took their way to
the dining-room. Lady Alice was left unattended, the guests taking their cue from the behaviour
of their entertainers. I ventured to go up to her, and offer her my arm. She made me a haughty
bow, and passed on before me unaccompanied. I could not help feeling hurt at this, and I think
she saw it; but it made no difference to her behaviour, except that she avoided everything
that might occasion me the chance of offering my services.

Nor did I get any further with Lady Hilton. Her manner and smile remained precisely the same
as on our first interview. She did not even show any interest in the fact that her daughter,
Lady Lucy, had joined her brothers in the schoolroom. I had an uncomfortable feeling that the
latter was like her mother, and was not to be trusted. Self-love is the foulest of all foul
feeders, and will defile that it may devour. But I must not anticipate.

The neglected library was open to me at all hours; and in it I often took refuge from the dreariness
of unsympathetic society. I was never admitted within the magic circle of the family interests
and enjoyments. If there was such a circle, Lady Alice and I certainly stood outside of it;
but whether even then it had any real inside to it, I doubted much. Nevertheless, as I have
said, our common exclusion had not the effect of bringing us together as sharers of the same
misfortune. In the library I found companions more to my need. But, even there, they were not
easy to find; for the books were in great confusion. I could discover no catalogue, nor could
I hear of the existence of such a useless luxury. One morning at breakfast, therefore, I asked
Lord Hilton if I might arrange and catalogue the books during my leisure hours. He replied:--

"Do anything you like with them, Mr. Campbell, except destroy them."

Now I was in my element. I never had been by any means a book-worm; but the very outside of
a book had a charm to me. It was a kind of sacrament--an outward and visible sign of an inward
and spiritual grace; as, indeed, what on God's earth is not? So I set to work amongst the books,
and soon became familiar with many titles at least, which had been perfectly unknown to me
before. I found a perfect set of our poets-perfect according to the notion of the editor and
the issue of the publisher, although it omitted both Chaucer and George Herbert. I began to
nibble at that portion of the collection which belonged to the sixteenth century; but with
little success. I found nothing, to my idea, but love poems without any love in them, and so
I soon became weary. But I found in the library what I liked far better--many romances of a
very marvellous sort, and plentiful interruption they gave to the formation of the catalogue.
I likewise came upon a whole nest of the German classics which seemed to have kept their places
undisturbed, in virtue of their unintelligibility. There must have been some well-read scholar
in the family, and that not long before, to judge by the near approach of the line of this
literature; happening to be a tolerable reader of German, I found in these volumes a mine of
wealth inexhaustible. I learned from Mrs. Wilson that this scholar was a younger brother of
Lord Hilton, who had died about twenty years before. He had led a retired, rather lonely life,
was of a melancholy and brooding disposition, and was reported to have had an unfortunate love-story.
This was one of many histories which she gave me. For the library being dusty as a catacomb,
the private room of Old Time himself, I had often to betake myself to her for assistance. The
good lady had far more regard than the owners of it for the library, and was delighted with
the pains I was taking to re-arrange and clean it. She would allow no one to help me but herself;
and to many a long-winded story, most of which I forgot as soon as I heard them, did I listen,
or seem to listen, while she dusted the shelves and I the books.

One day I had sent a servant to ask Mrs. Wilson to come to me. I had taken down all the books
from a hitherto undisturbed corner, and had seated myself on a heap of them, no doubt a very
impersonation of the genius of the place; for while I waited for the housekeeper, I was consuming
a morsel of an ancient metrical romance. After waiting for some time, I glanced towards the
door, for I had begun to get impatient for the entrance of my helper. To my surprise, there
stood Lady Alice, her eyes fixed upon me with an expression I could not comprehend. Her face
instantly altered to its usual look of indifference, dashed with the least possible degree
of scorn, as she turned and walked slowly away. I rose involuntarily. An old cavalry sword,
which I had just taken down from the wall, and had placed leaning against the books from which
I now rose, fell with a clash to the floor. I started; for it was a sound that always startled
me; and stooping I lifted the weapon. But what was my surprise when I raised my head, to see
once more the face of Lady Alice staring in at the door! yet not the same face, for it had
changed in the moment that had passed. It was pale with fear--not fright; and her great black
eyes were staring beyond me as if she saw something through the wall of the room. Once more
her face altered to the former scornful indifference, and she vanished. Keen of hearing as
I was, I had never yet heard the footstep of Lady Alice.

CHAPTER VIII

The Somnambulist.

One night I was sitting in my room, devouring an old romance which I had brought from the library.
It was late. The fire blazed bright; but the candles were nearly burnt out, and I grew sleepy
over the volume, romance as it was.

Suddenly I found myself on my feet, listening with an agony of intention. Whether I had heard
anything I could not tell; but I felt as if I had. Yes; I was sure of it. Far away, somewhere
in the labyrinthine pile, I heard a faint cry. Driven by some secret impulse, I flew, without
a moment's reflection, to the closet door, lifted the tapestry within, unfastened the second
door, and stood in the great waste echoing hall, amid the touches, light and ghostly, of the
cobwebs set afloat in the eddies occasioned by my sudden entrance.

A faded moonbeam fell on the floor, and filled the place with an ancient dream-light, which
wrought strangely on my brain, and filled it, as if it, too, were but a deserted, sleepy house,
haunted by old dreams and memories. Recollecting myself, I went back for a light; but the candles
were both flickering in the sockets, and I was compelled to trust to the moon. I ascended the
staircase. Old as it was, not a board creaked, not a banister shook--the whole felt solid as
rock. Finding, at length, no more stair to ascend, I groped my way on; for here there was no
direct light from the moon--only the light of the moonlit air. I was in some trepidation, I
confess; for how should I find my way back? But the worst result likely to ensue was, that
I should have to spend the night without knowing where; for with the first glimmer of morning,
I should be able to return to my room. At length, after wandering into several rooms and out
again, my hand fell on a latched door. I opened it, and entered a long corridor, with many
windows on one side. Broad strips of moonlight lay slantingly across the narrow floor, divided
by regular intervals of shade.

I started, and my heart swelled; for I saw a movement somewhere--I could neither tell where,
nor of what: I was only aware of motion. I stood in the first shadow, and gazed, but saw nothing.
I sped across the light to the next shadow, and stood again, looking with fearful fixedness
of gaze towards the far end of the corridor. Suddenly a white form glimmered and vanished.
I crossed to the next shadow. Again a glimmer and vanishing, but nearer. Nerving myself to
the utmost, I ceased the stealthiness of my movements, and went forward, slowly and steadily.
A tall form, apparently of a woman, dressed in a long white robe, appeared in one of the streams
of light, threw its arms over its head, gave a wild cry--which, notwithstanding its wildness
and force, had a muffled sound, as if many folds, either of matter or of space, intervened--and
fell at full length along the moonlight. Amidst the thrill of agony which shook me at the cry,
I rushed forward, and, kneeling beside the prostrate figure, discovered that, unearthly as
was the scream which had preceded her fall, it was the Lady Alice. I saw the fact in a moment:
the Lady Alice was a somnambulist. Startled by the noise of my advance, she had awaked; and
the usual terror and fainting had followed. She was cold and motionless as death. What was
to be done? If I called, the probability was that no one would hear me; or if any one should
hear--but I need not follow the course of my thought, as I tried in vain to recover the poor
girl. Suffice it to say, that both for her sake and my own, I could not face the chance of
being found, in the dead of night, by common-minded domestics, in such a situation.

I was kneeling by her side, not knowing what to do, when a horror, as from the presence of
death suddenly recognized, fell upon me. I thought she must be dead. But at the same moment,
I hear, or seemed to hear, (how should I know which?) the rapid gallop of a horse, and the
clank of a loose shoe.

In an agony of fear, I caught her up in my arms, and, carrying her on my arms, as one carries
a sleeping child, hurried back through the corridor. Her hair, which was loose, trailed on
the ground; and, as I fled, I trampled on it and stumbled. She moaned; and that instant the
gallop ceased. I lifted her up across my shoulder, and carried her more easily. How I found
my way to the stair I cannot tell: I know that I groped about for some time, like one in a
dream with a ghost in his arms. At last I reached it, and descending, crossed the hall, and
entered my room. There I placed Lady Alice upon an old couch, secured the doors, and began
to breathe--and think. The first thing was to get her warm, for she was cold as the dead. I
covered her with my plaid and my dressing-gown, pulled the couch before the fire, and considered
what to do next.

CHAPTER IX

The First Waking.

While I hesitated, Nature had her own way, and, with a deep-drawn sigh, Lady Alice opened her
eyes. Never shall I forget the look of mingled bewilderment, alarm, and shame, with which her
great eyes met mine. But, in a moment, this expression changed to that of anger. Her dark eyes
flashed with light; and a cloud of roseate wrath grew in her face, till it glowed with the
opaque red of a camellia. She had almost started from the couch, when, apparently discovering
the unsuitableness of her dress, she checked her impetuosity, and remained leaning on her elbow.
Overcome by her anger, her beauty, and my own confusion, I knelt before her, unable to speak,
or to withdraw my eyes from hers. After a moment's pause, she began to question me like a queen,
and I to reply like a culprit.

"How did I come here?"

"I carried you."

"Where did you find me, pray?"

Her lip curled with ten times the usual scorn.

"In the old house, in a long corridor."

"What right had you to be there?"

"I heard a cry, and could not help going."

"Tis impossible.--I see. Some wretch told you, and you watched for me."

"I did not, Lady Alice."

She burst into tears, and fell back on the couch, with her face turned away. Then, anger reviving,
she went on through her sobs:--

"Why did you not leave me where I fell? You had done enough to hurt me without bringing me here."

And again she fell a-weeping.

Now I found words.

"Lady Alice," I said, "how could I leave you lying in the moonlight? Before the sun rose, the
terrible moon might have distorted your beautiful face."

"Be silent, sir. What have you to do with my face?"

"And the wind, Lady Alice, was blowing through the corridor windows, keen and cold as the moonlight.
How could I leave you?"

"You could have called for help."

"Forgive me, Lady Alice, if I erred in thinking you would rather command the silence of a gentleman
to whom an accident had revealed your secret, than be exposed to the domestics who would have
gathered round us."

Again she half raised herself, and again her eyes flashed.

"A secret with you, sir!"

"But, besides, Lady Alice," I cried, springing to my feet, in distress at her hardness, "I
heard the horse with the clanking shoe, and, in terror, I caught you up, and fled with you,
almost before I knew what I did. And I hear it now--I hear it now!" I cried, as once more the
ominous sound rang through my brain.

The angry glow faded from her face, and its paleness grew almost ghastly with dismay.

"Do you hear it?" she said, throwing back her covering, and rising from the couch. "I do not."

She stood listening with distended eyes, as if they were the gates by which such sounds entered.

"I do not hear it," she said again, after a pause. "It must be gone now." Then, turning to
me, she laid her hand on my arm, and looked at me. Her black hair, disordered and entangled,
wandered all over her white dress to her knees. Her face was paler than ever; and her eyes
were so wide open that I could see the white all round the large dark iris.

"Did you hear it?" she said. "No one ever heard it before but me. I must forgive you--you could
not help it. I will trust you, too. Take me to my room."

Without a word of reply, I wrapped my plaid about her. Then bethinking me of my chamber-candle,
I lighted it, and opening the two doors, led her out of the room.

"How is this?" she asked. "Why do you take me this way? I do not know the place."

"This is the way I brought you in, Lady Alice," I answered. "I know no other way to the spot
where I found you. And I can guide you no farther than there--hardly even so far, for I groped
my way there for the first time this night or morning--whichever it may be."

"It is past midnight, but not morning yet," she replied, "I always know. But there must be
another way from your room?"

"Yes, of course; but we should have to pass the housekeeper's door--she is always late."

"Are we near her room? I should know my way from there. I fear it would not surprise any of
the household to see me. They would say--'It is only Lady Alice.' Yet I cannot tell you how
I shrink from being seen. No--I will try the way you brought me--if you do not mind going back
with me."

This conversation passed in low tone and hurried words. It was scarcely over before we found
ourselves at the foot of the staircase. Lady Alice shivered, and drew the plaid close round her.

We ascended, and soon found the corridor; but when we got through it, she was rather bewildered.
At length, after looking into several of the rooms, empty all, except for stray articles of
ancient furniture, she exclaimed, as she entered one, and, taking the candle from my hand,
held it above her head--

"Ah, yes! I am right at last. This is the haunted room. I know my way now."

I caught a darkling glimpse of a large room, apparently quite furnished; but how, except from
the general feeling of antiquity and mustiness, I could not tell. Little did I think then what
memories--old, now, like the ghosts that with them haunt the place--would ere long find their
being and take their abode in that ancient room, to forsake it never more. In strange, half-waking
moods, I seem to see the ghosts and the memories flitting together through the spectral moonlight,
and weaving mystic dances in and out of the storied windows and the tapestried walls.

At the door of this room she said, "I must leave you here. I will put down the light a little
further on, and you can come for it. I owe you many thanks. You will not be afraid of being
left so near the haunted room?"

I assured her that at present I felt strong enough to meet all the ghosts in or out of Hades.
Turning, she smiled a sad, sweet smile, then went on a few paces, and disappeared. The light,
however, remained; and I found the candle, with my plaid, deposited at the foot of a short
flight of steps, at right angles to the passage she left me in. I made my way back to my room,
threw myself on the couch on which she had so lately lain, and neither went to bed nor slept
that night. Before the morning, I had fully entered that phase of individual development commonly
called love, of which the real nature is as great a mystery to me now, as it was at any period
previous to its evolution in myself.

CHAPTER X

Love and Power.

When the morning came, I began to doubt whether my wakefulness had not been part of my dream,
and I had not dreamed the whole of my supposed adventures. There was no sign of a lady's presence
left in the room.--How could there have been?--But throwing the plaid which covered me aside,
my hand was caught by a single thread of something so fine that I could not see it till the
light grew strong. I wound it round and round my finger, and doubted no longer.

At breakfast there was no Lady Alice--nor at dinner. I grew uneasy, but what could I do? I
soon learned that she was ill; and a weary fortnight passed before I saw her again. Mrs. Wilson
told me that she had caught cold, and was confined to her room. So I was ill at ease, not from
love alone, but from anxiety as well. Every night I crept up through the deserted house to
the stair where she had vanished, and there sat in the darkness or groped and peered about
for some sign. But I saw no light even, and did not know where her room was. It might be far
beyond this extremity of my knowledge; for I discovered no indication of the proximity of the
inhabited portion of the house. Mrs. Wilson said there was nothing serious the matter; but
this did not satisfy me, for I imagined something mysterious in the way in which she spoke.

As the days went on, and she did not appear, my soul began to droop within me; my intellect
seemed about to desert me altogether. In vain I tried to read. Nothing could fix my attention.
I read and re-read the same page; but although I understood every word as I read, I found when
I came to a pause, that there lingered in my mind no palest notion of the idea. It was just
what one experiences in attempting to read when half-asleep.

I tried Euclid, and fared a little better with that. But having now to initiate my boys into
the mysteries of equations, I soon found that although I could manage a very simple one, yet
when I attempted one more complex--one in which something bordering upon imagination was necessary
to find out the object for which to appoint the symbol to handle it by--the necessary power
of concentration was itself a missing factor.

But although my thoughts were thus beyond my control, my duties were not altogether irksome
to me. I remembered that they kept me near her; and although I could not learn, I found that
I could teach a little.

Perhaps it is foolish to dwell upon an individual variety of an almost universal stage in the
fever of life; but one exception to these indications of mental paralysis I think worth mentioning.

I continued my work in the library, although it did not advance with the same steadiness as
before. One day, in listless mood, I took up a volume, without knowing what it was, or what
I sought. It opened at the Amoretti of Edmund Spenser. I was on the point of closing it again,
when a line caught my eye. I read the sonnet; read another; found I could understand them perfectly;
and that hour the poetry of the sixteenth century, hitherto a sealed fountain, became an open
well of refreshment, and the strength that comes from sympathy. What if its second-rate writers
were full of conceits and vagaries, the feelings are very indifferent to the mere intellectual
forms around which the same feelings in others have gathered, if only by their means they hint
at, and sometimes express themselves. Now I understood this old fantastic verse, and knew that
the foam-bells on the torrent of passionate feeling are iris-hued. And what was more--it proved
an intellectual nexus between my love and my studies, or at least a bridge by which I could
pass from the one to the other.

That same day, I remember well, Mrs. Wilson told me that Lady Alice was much better. But as
days passed, and still she did not make her appearance, my anxiety only changed its object,
and I feared that it was from aversion to me that she did not join the family. But her name
was never mentioned in my hearing by any of the other members of it; and her absence appeared
to be to them a matter of no moment or interest.

One night, as I sat in my room, I found, as usual, that it was impossible to read; and throwing
the book aside, relapsed into that sphere of thought which now filled my soul, and had for
its centre the Lady Alice. I recalled her form as she lay on the couch, and brooded over the
remembrance till a longing to see her, almost unbearable, arose within me.

"Would to heaven," I said to myself, "that will were power!"

In this concurrence of idleness, distraction, and vehement desire, I found all at once, without
any foregone resolution, that I was concentrating and intensifying within me, until it rose
almost to a command, the operative volition that Lady Alice should come to me. In a moment
more I trembled at the sense of a new power which sprang into conscious being within me. I
had had no prevision of its existence, when I gave way to such extravagant and apparently helpless
wishes. I now actually awaited the fulfilment of my desire; but in a condition ill-fitted to
receive it, for the effort had already exhausted me to such a degree, that every nerve was
in a conscious tremor. Nor had I long to wait.

I heard no sound of approach: the closet-door folded back, and in glided, open-eyed, but sightless
pale as death, and clad in white, ghostly-pure and saint-like, the Lady Alice. I shuddered
from head to foot at what I had done. She was more terrible to me in that moment than any pale-eyed
ghost could have been. For had I not exercised a kind of necromantic art, and roused without
awaking the slumbering dead? She passed me, walking round the table at which I was seated,
went to the couch, laid herself down with a maidenly care, turned a little on one side, with
her face towards me, and gradually closed her eyes. In something deeper than sleep she lay,
and yet not in death. I rose, and once more knelt beside her, but dared not touch her. In what
far realms of life might the lovely soul be straying! What mysterious modes of being might
now be the homely surroundings of her second life! Thoughts unutterable rose in me, culminated,
and sank, like the stars of heaven, as I gazed on the present symbol of an absent life--a life
that I loved by means of the symbol; a symbol that I loved because of the life. How long she
lay thus, how long I gazed upon her thus, I do not know. Gradually, but without my being able
to distinguish the gradations, her countenance altered to that of one who sleeps. But the change
did not end there. A colour, faint as the blush in the centre of a white rose, tinged her lips,
and deepened; then her cheek began to share in the hue, then her brow and her neck. The colour
was that of the cloud which, the farthest from the sunset, yet acknowledges the rosy atmosphere.
I watched, as it were, the dawn of a soul on the horizon of the visible. The first approaches
of its far-off flight were manifest; and as I watched, I saw it come nearer and nearer, till
its great, silent, speeding pinions were folded, and it looked forth, a calm, beautiful, infinite
woman, from the face and form sleeping before me.

I knew that she was awake, some moments before she opened her eyes. When at last those depths
of darkness disclosed themselves, slowly uplifting their white cloudy portals, the same consternation
she had formerly manifested, accompanied by yet greater anger, followed.

"Yet again! Am I your slave, because I am weak?" She rose in the majesty of wrath, and moved
towards the door.

"Lady Alice, I have not touched you. I am to blame, but not as you think. Could I help longing
to see you? And if the longing passed, ere I was aware, into a will that you should come, and
you obeyed it, forgive me."

I hid my face in my hands, overcome by conflicting emotions. A kind of stupor came over me.
When I lifted my head, she was standing by the closet-door.

"I have waited," she said, "to make a request of you."

"Do not utter it, Lady Alice. I know what it is. I give you my word--my solemn promise, if
you like--that I will never do it again." She thanked me, with a smile, and vanished.

Much to my surprise, she appeared at dinner next day. No notice was taken of her, except by
the younger of my pupils, who called out,--

"Hallo, Alice! Are you down?"

She smiled and nodded, but did not speak. Everything went on as usual. There was no change
in her behaviour, except in one point. I ventured the experiment of paying her some ordinary
enough attention. She thanked me, without a trace of the scornful expression I all but expected
to see upon her beautiful face. But when I addressed her about the weather, or something equally
interesting, she made no reply; and Lady Hilton gave me a stare, as much as to say, "Don't
you know it's of no use to talk to her?" Alice saw the look, and colouring to the eyes, rose,
and left the room. When she had gone, Lady Hilton said to me,--

"Don't speak to her, Mr. Campbell--it distresses her. She is very peculiar, you know."

She could not hide the scorn and dislike with which she spoke; and I could not help saying
to myself, "What a different thing scorn looks on your face, Lady Hilton!" for it made her
positively and hatefully ugly for the moment--to my eyes, at least.

After this, Alice sat down with us at all our meals, and seemed tolerably well. But, in some
indescribable way, she was quite a different person from the Lady Alice who had twice awaked
in my presence. To use a phrase common in describing one of weak intellect--she never seemed
to be all there. There was something automatical in her movements; and a sort of frozen indifference
was the prevailing expression of her countenance. When she smiled, a sweet light shone in her
eyes, and she looked for the moment like the Lady Alice of my nightly dreams. But, altogether,
the Lady Alice of the night, and the Lady Alice of the day, were two distinct persons. I believed
that the former was the real one.

What nights I had now, watching and striving lest unawares I should fall into the exercise
of my new power! I allowed myself to think of her as much as I pleased in the daytime, or at
least as much as I dared; for when occupied with my pupils, I dreaded lest any abstraction
should even hint that I had a thought to conceal. I knew that I could not hurt her then; for
that only in the night did she enter that state of existence in which my will could exercise
authority over her. But at night--at night--when I knew she lay there, and might be lying here;
when but a thought would bring her, and that thought was fluttering its wings, ready to spring
awake out of the dreams of my heart--then the struggle was fearful. And what added force to
the temptation was, that to call her to me in the night, seemed like calling the real immortal
Alice forth from the tomb in which she wandered about all day. It was as painful to me to see
her such in the day, as it was entracing to remember her such as I had seen her in the night.
What matter if her true self came forth in anger against me? What was I? It was enough for
my life, I said, to look on her, such as she really was. "Bring her yet once, and tell her
all--tell her how madly, hopelessly you love her. She will forgive you at least," said a voice
within me. But I heard it as the voice of the tempter, and kept down the thought which might
have grown to the will.

CHAPTER XI

A New Pupil.

One day, exactly three weeks after her last visit to my room, as I was sitting with my three
pupils in the schoolroom, Lady Alice entered, and began to look on the bookshelves as if she
wanted some volume. After a few moments, she turned, and, approaching the table, said to me,
in an abrupt, yet hesitating way.

"Mr. Campbell, I cannot spell. How am I to learn?"

I thought for a moment, and replied: "Copy a passage every day, Lady Alice, from some favourite
book. Then, if you allow me, I shall be most happy to point out any mistakes you may have made."

"Thank you, Mr. Campbell, I will; but I am afraid you will despise me, when you find how badly
I spell."

"There is no fear of that," I rejoined. "It is a mere peculiarity. So long as one can think
well, spelling is altogether secondary."

"Thank you; I will try," she said, and left the room. Next day, she brought me an old ballad,
written tolerably, but in a school-girl's hand. She had copied the antique spelling, letter
for letter.

"This is quite correct," I said; "but to copy such as this will not teach you properly; for
it is very old, and consequently old-fashioned."

"Is it old? Don't we spell like that now? You see I do not know anything about it. You must
set me a task, then."

This I undertook with more pleasure than I dared to show. Every day she brought me the appointed
exercise, written with a steadily improving hand. To my surprise, I never found a single error
in the spelling. Of course, when, advancing a step in the process, I made her write from my
dictation, she did make blunders, but not so many as I had expected; and she seldom repeated
one after correction.

This new association gave me many opportunities of doing more for her than merely teaching
her to spell. We talked about what she copied; and I had to explain. I also told her about
the writers. Soon she expressed a desire to know something of figures. We commenced arithmetic.
I proposed geometry along with it, and found the latter especially fitted to her powers. One
by one we included several other necessary branches; and ere long I had four around the schoolroom
table--equally my pupils. Whether the attempts previously made to instruct her had been insufficient
or misdirected, or whether her intellectual powers had commenced a fresh growth, I could not
tell; but I leaned to the latter conclusion, especially after I began to observe that her peculiar
remarks had become modified in form, though without losing any of their originality. The unearthliness
of her beauty likewise disappeared, a slight colour displacing the almost marbly whiteness
of her cheek.

Long before Lady Alice had made this progress, my nightly struggles began to diminish in violence.
They had now entirely ceased. The temptation had left me. I felt certain that for weeks she
had never walked in her sleep. She was beyond my power, and I was glad of it.

I was, of course, most careful of my behaviour during all this period. I strove to pay Lady
Alice no more attention than I paid to the rest of my pupils; and I cannot help thinking that
I succeeded. But now and then, in the midst of some instruction I was giving Lady Alice, I
caught the eye of Lady Lucy, a sharp, common-minded girl, fixed upon one or the other of us,
with an inquisitive vulgar expression, which I did not like. This made me more careful still.
I watched my tones, to keep them even, and free from any expression of the feeling of which
my heart was full. Sometimes, however, I could not help revealing the gratification I felt
when she made some marvellous remark--marvellous, I mean, in relation to her other attainments;
such a remark as a child will sometimes make, showing that he has already mastered, through
his earnest simplicity, some question that has for ages perplexed the wise and the prudent.
On one of these occasions, I found the cat eyes of Lady Lucy glittering on me. I turned away;
not, I fear, without showing some displeasure.

Whether it was from Lady Lucy's evil report, or that the change in Lady Alice's habits and
appearance had attracted the attention of Lady Hilton, I cannot tell; but one morning she appeared
at the door of the study, and called her. Lady Alice rose and went, with a slight gesture of
impatience. In a few minutes she returned, looking angry and determined, and resumed her seat.
But whatever it was that had passed between them, it had destroyed that quiet flow of the feelings
which was necessary to the working of her thoughts. In vain she tried: she could do nothing
correctly. At last she burst into tears and left the room. I was almost beside myself with
distress and apprehension. She did not return that day.

Next morning she entered at the usual hour, looking composed, but paler than of late, and showing
signs of recent weeping. When we were all seated, and had just commenced our work, I happened
to look up, and caught her eyes intently fixed on me. They dropped instantly, but without any
appearance of confusion. She went on with her arithmetic, and succeeded tolerably. But this
respite was to be of short duration. Lady Hilton again entered, and called her. She rose angrily,
and my quick ear caught the half-uttered words, "That woman will make an idiot of me again!"
She did not return; and never from that hour resumed her place in the schoolroom.

The time passed heavily. At dinner she looked proud and constrained; and spoke only in monosyllables.

For two days I scarcely saw her. But the third day, as I was busy in the library alone, she
entered.

"Can I help you, Mr. Campbell?" she said.

I glanced involuntarily towards the door.

"Lady Hilton is not at home," she replied to my look, while a curl of indignation contended
with a sweet tremor of shame for the possession of her lip.--"Let me help you."

"You will help me best if you sing that ballad I heard you singing just before you came in.
I never heard you sing before."

"Didn't you? I don't think I ever did sing before."

"Sing it again, will you, please?"

"It is only two verses. My old Scotch nurse used to sing it when I was a little girl-oh, so
long ago! I didn't know I could sing it."

She began without more ado, standing in the middle of the room, with her back towards the door.

  Annie was dowie, an' Willie was wae:
  What can be the matter wi' siccan a twae?
  For Annie was bonnie's the first o' the day,
  And Willie was strang an' honest an' gay.

  Oh! the tane had a daddy was poor an' was proud;
  An' the tither a minnie that cared for the gowd.
  They lo'ed are anither, an' said their say--
  But the daddy an' minnie hae pairtit the twae.

Just as she finished the song, I saw the sharp eyes of Lady Lucy peeping in at the door.

"Lady Lucy is watching at the door, Lady Alice," I said.

"I don't care," she answered; but turned with a flush on her face, and stepped noiselessly
to the door.

"There is no one there," she said, returning.

"There was, though," I answered.

"They want to drive me mad," she cried, and hurried from the room.

The next day but one, she came again with the same request. But she had not been a minute in
the library before Lady Hilton came to the door and called her in angry tones.

"Presently," replied Alice, and remained where she was.

"Do go, Lady Alice," I said. "They will send me away if you refuse."

She blushed scarlet, and went without another word.

She came no more to the library.

CHAPTER XII

Confession.

Day followed day, the one the child of the other. Alice's old paleness and unearthly look began
to reappear; and, strange to tell, my midnight temptation revived. After a time she ceased
to dine with us again, and for days I never saw her. It was the old story of suffering with
me, only more intense than before. The day was dreary, and the night stormy. "Call her," said
my heart; but my conscience resisted.

I was lying on the floor of my room one midnight, with my face to the ground, when suddenly
I heard a low, sweet, strange voice singing somewhere. The moment I became aware that I heard
it I felt as if I had been listening to it unconsciously for some minutes past. I lay still,
either charmed to stillness, or fearful of breaking the spell. As I lay, I was lapt in the
folds of a waking dream.

I was in bed in a castle, on the seashore; the wind came from the sea in chill eerie soughs,
and the waves fell with a threatful tone upon the beach, muttering many maledictions as they
rushed up, and whispering cruel portents as they drew back, hissing and gurgling, through the
million narrow ways of the pebbly ramparts; and I knew that a maiden in white was standing
in the cold wind, by the angry sea, singing. I had a kind of dreamy belief in my dream; but,
overpowered by the spell of the music, I still lay and listened. Keener and stronger, under
the impulses of my will, grew the power of my hearing. At last I could distinguish the words.
The ballad was Annie of Lochroyan; and Lady Alice was singing it. The words I heard were these:--

  Oh, gin I had a bonnie ship,
  And men to sail wi' me,
  It's I wad gang to my true love,
  Sin' he winna come to me.

  Lang stood she at her true love's door,
  And lang tirled at the pin;
  At length up gat his fause mother,
  Says, "Wha's that wad be in?"

         *       *       *       *       *

  Love Gregory started frae his sleep,
  And to his mother did say:
  "I dreamed a dream this night, mither,
  That maks my heart right wae.

  "I dreamed that Annie of Lochroyan,
  The flower of a' her kin,
  Was standing mournin' at my door,
  But nane wad let her in."

I sprang to my feet, and opened the hidden door. There she stood, white, asleep, with closed
eyes, singing like a bird, only with a heartful of sad meaning in every tone. I stepped aside,
without speaking, and she passed me into the room. I closed the door, and followed her. She
lay already upon the couch, still and restful--already covered with my plaid. I sat down beside
her, waiting; and gazed upon her in wonderment. That she was possessed of very superior intellectual
powers, whatever might be the cause of their having lain dormant so long, I had already fully
convinced myself; but I was not prepared to find art as well as intellect. I had already heard
her sing the little song of two verses, which she had learned from her nurse. But here was
a song, of her own making as to the music, so true and so potent, that, before I knew anything
of the words, it had surrounded me with a dream of the place in which the scene of the ballad
was laid. It did not then occur to me that, perhaps, our idiosyncrasies were such as not to
require even the music of the ballad for the production of rapport between our minds, the brain
of the one generating in the brain of the other the vision present to itself.

I sat and thought:--Some obstruction in the gateways, outward, prevented her, in her waking
hours, from uttering herself at all. This obstruction, damming back upon their sources the
out-goings of life, threw her into this abnormal sleep. In it the impulse to utterance, still
unsatisfied, so wrought within her unable, yet compliant form, that she could not rest, but
rose and walked. And now, a fresh surge from the sea of her unknown being, unrepressed by the
hitherto of the objects of sense, had burst the gates and bars, swept the obstructions from
its channel, and poured from her in melodious song.

The first green lobes, at least, of these thoughts, appeared above the soil of my mind, while
I sat and gazed on the sleeping girl. And now I had once more the delight of watching a spirit-dawn,
a soul-rise, in that lovely form. The light flushing of its pallid sky was, as before, the
first sign. I dreaded the flash of lovely flame, and the outburst of regnant anger, ere I should
have time to say that I was not to blame. But when, at length, the full dawn, the slow sunrise
came, it was with all the gentleness of a cloudy summer morn. Never did a more celestial rosy
red hang about the skirts of the level sun, than deepened and glowed upon her face, when, opening
her eyes, she saw me beside her. She covered her face with her hands; and instead of the words
of indignant reproach which I dreaded to hear, she murmured behind the snowy screen: "I am
glad you have broken your promise."

My heart gave a bound and was still. I grew faint with delight. "No," I said; "I have not broken
my promise, Lady Alice; I have struggled nearly to madness to keep it--and I have kept it."

"I have come then of myself. Worse and worse! But it is their fault."

Tears now found their way through the repressing fingers. I could not endure to see her weep.
I knelt beside her, and, while she still covered her face with her hands, I said--I do not
know what I said. They were wild, and, doubtless, foolish words in themselves, but they must
have been wise and true in their meaning. When I ceased, I knew that I had ceased only by the
great silence around me. I was still looking at her hands. Slowly she withdrew them. It was
as when the sun breaks forth on a cloudy day. The winter was over and gone; the time of the
singing of birds had come. She smiled on me through her tears, and heart met heart in the light
of that smile.

She rose to go at once, and I begged for no delay. I only stood with clasped hands, gazing
at her. She turned at the door, and said;

"I daresay I shall come again; I am afraid I cannot help it; only mind you do not wake me."

Before I could reply, I was alone; and I felt that I must not follow her.

CHAPTER XIII

Questioning.

I laid myself on the couch she had left, but not to sleep. A new pulse of life, stronger than
I could bear, was throbbing within me. I dreaded a fever, lest I should talk in it, and drop
the clue to my secret treasure. But the light of the morning stilled me, and a bath in ice-cold
water made me strong again. Yet I felt all that day as if I were dying a delicious death, and
going to a yet more exquisite life. As far as I might, however, I repressed all indications
of my delight; and endeavoured, for the sake both of duty and of prudence, to be as attentive
to my pupils and their studies as it was possible for man to be. This helped to keep me in
my right mind. But, more than all my efforts at composure, the pain which, as far as my experience
goes, invariably accompanies, and sometimes even usurps, the place of the pleasure which gave
it birth, was efficacious in keeping me sane.

Night came, but brought no Lady Alice. It was a week before I saw her again. Her heart had
been stilled, and she was able to sleep aright.

But seven nights after, she did come. I waited her awaking, possessed with one painful thought,
which I longed to impart to her. She awoke with a smile, covered her face for a moment, but
only for a moment, and then sat up. I stood before her; and the first words I spoke were:

"Lady Alice, ought I not to go?"

"No," she replied at once. "I can claim some compensation from them for the wrong they have
been doing me. Do you know in what relation I stand to Lord and Lady Hilton? They are but my
stepmother and her husband."

"I know that."

"Well, I have a fortune of my own, about which I never thought or cared--till--till--within
the last few weeks. Lord Hilton is my guardian. Whether they made me the stupid creature I
was, I do not know; but I believe they have represented me as far worse than I was, to keep
people from making my acquaintance. They prevented my going on with my lessons, because they
saw I was getting to understand things, and grow like other people; and that would not suit
their purposes. It would be false delicacy in you to leave me to them, when you can make up
to me for their injustice. Their behaviour to me takes away any right they had over me, and
frees you from any obligation, because I am yours.--Am I not?"

Once more she covered her face with her hands. I could answer only by withdrawing one of them,
which I was now emboldened to keep in my own.

I was very willingly persuaded to what was so much my own desire. But whether the reasoning
was quite just or not, I am not yet sure. Perhaps it might be so for her, and yet not for me:
I do not know; I am a poor casuist.

She resumed, laying her other hand upon mine:--

"It would be to tell the soul which you have called forth, to go back into its dark moaning
cavern, and never more come out to the light of day."

How could I resist this?

A long pause ensued.

"It is strange," she said, at length, "to feel, when I lie down at night, that I may awake
in your presence, without knowing how. It is strange, too, that, although I should be utterly
ashamed to come wittingly, I feel no confusion when I find myself here. When I feel myself
coming awake, I lie for a little while with my eyes closed, wondering and hoping, and afraid
to open them, lest I should find myself only in my own chamber; shrinking a little, too--just
a little--from the first glance into your face."

"But when you awake, do you know nothing of what has taken place in your sleep?"

"Nothing whatever."

"Have you no vague sensations, no haunting shadows, no dim ghostly moods, seeming to belong
to that condition, left?"

"None whatever."

She rose, said "Good-night," and left me.

Chapter XIV

Jealousy.

Again seven days passed before she revisited me. Indeed, her visits had always an interval
of seven days, or a multiple of seven, between.

Since the last, a maddening jealousy had seized me. For, returning from those unknown regions
into which her soul had wandered away, and where she had stayed for hours, did she not sometimes
awake with a smile? How could I be sure that she did not lead two distinct existences?--that
she had not some loving spirit, or man, who, like her, had for a time left the body behind--who
was all in all to her in that region, and whom she forgot when she forsook it, as she forgot
me when she entered it? It was a thought I could not brook. But I put aside its persistency
as well as I could, till she should come again. For this I waited. I could not now endure the
thought of compelling the attendance of her unconscious form; of making her body, like a living
cage, transport to my presence the unresisting soul. I shrank from it as a true man would shrink
from kissing the lips of a sleeping woman whom he loved, not knowing that she loved him in return.

It may well be said that to follow such a doubt was to inquire too curiously; but once the
thought had begun, and grown, and been born, how was I to slay the monster, and be free of
its hated presence? Was its truth not a possibility?--Yet how could even she help me, for she
knew nothing of the matter? How could she vouch for the unknown? What news can the serene face
of the moon, ever the same to us, give of the hidden half of herself turned ever towards what
seems to us but the blind abysmal darkness, which yet has its own light and its own life? All
I could hope for was to see her, to tell her, to be comforted at least by her smile.

My saving angel glided blind into my room, lay down upon her bier, and awaited the resurrection.
I sat and awaited mine, panting to untwine from my heart the cold death-worm that twisted around
it, yet picturing to myself the glow of love on the averted face of the beautiful spirit--averted
from me, and bending on a radiant companion all the light withdrawn from the lovely form beside
me. That light began to return. "She is coming, she is coming," I said within me. "Back from
its glowing south travels the sun of my spring, the glory of my summer." Floating slowly up
from the infinite depths of her being, came the conscious woman; up--up from the realms of
stillness lying deeper than the plummet of self-knowledge can sound; up from the formless,
up into the known, up into the material, up to the windows that look forth on the embodied
mysteries around. Her eyelids rose. One look of love all but slew my fear. When I told her
my grief, she answered with a smile of pity, yet half of disdain at the thought.

"If ever I find it so, I will kill myself there, that I may go to my Hades with you. But if
I am dreaming of another, how is it that I always rise in my vision and come to you? You will
go crazy if you fancy such foolish things," she added, with a smile of reproof.

The spectral thought vanished, and I was free.

"Shall I tell you," she resumed, covering her face with her hands, "why I behaved so proudly
to you, from the very first day you entered the house? It was because, when I passed you on
the lawn, before ever you entered the house, I felt a strange, undefinable attraction towards
you, which continued, although I could not account for it and would not yield to it. I was
heartily annoyed at it. But you see it was of no use--here I am. That was what made me so fierce,
too, when I first found myself in your room."

It was indeed long before she came to my room again.

CHAPTER XV

The Chamber of Ghosts.

But now she returned once more into the usual routine of the family. I fear I was unable to
repress all signs of agitation when, next day, she entered the dining-room, after we were seated,
and took her customary place at the table. Her behaviour was much the same as before; but her
face was very different. There was light in it now, and signs of mental movement. The smooth
forehead would be occasionally wrinkled, and she would fall into moods which were evidently
not of inanity, but of abstracted thought. She took especial care that our eyes should not
meet. If by chance they did, instead of sinking hers, she kept them steady, and opened them
wider, as if she was fixing them on nothing at all, or she raised them still higher, as if
she was looking at something above me, before she allowed them to fall. But the change in her
altogether was such that it must have attracted the notice and roused the speculation of Lady
Hilton at least. For me, so well did she act her part, that I was thrown into perplexity by
it. And when day after day passed, and the longing to speak to her grew, and remained unsatisfied,
new doubts arose. Perhaps she was tired of me. Perhaps her new studies filled her mind with
the clear, gladsome morning light of the pure intellect, which always throws doubt and distrust
and a kind of negation upon the moonlight of passion, mysterious, and mingled ever with faint
shadows of pain. I walked as in an unresting sleep. Utterly as I loved her, I was yet alarmed
and distressed to find how entirely my being had grown dependent upon her love; how little
of individual, self-existing, self-upholding life, I seemed to have left; how little I cared
for anything, save as I could associate it with her.

I was sitting late one night in my room. I had all but given up hope of her coming. I had,
perhaps, deprived her of the somnambulic power. I was brooding over this possibility, when
all at once I felt as if I were looking into the haunted room. It seemed to be lighted by the
moon, shining through the stained windows. The feeling came and went suddenly, as such visions
of places generally do; but this had an indescribable something about it more clear and real
than such resurrections of the past, whether willed or unwilled, commonly possess; and a great
longing seized me to look into the room once more. I rose with a sense of yielding to the irresistible,
left the room, groped my way through the hall and up the oak staircase--I had never thought
of taking a light with me--and entered the corridor. No sooner had I entered it, than the thought
sprang up in my mind--"What if she should be there!" My heart stood still for a moment, like
a wounded deer, and then bounded on, with a pang in every bound. The corridor was night itself,
with a dim, bluish-grey light from the windows, sufficing to mark their own spaces. I stole
through it, and, without erring once, went straight to the haunted chamber. The door stood
half open. I entered, and was bewildered by the dim, mysterious, dreamy loveliness upon which
I gazed. The moon shone full upon the windows, and a thousand coloured lights and shadows crossed
and intertwined upon the walls and floor, all so soft, and mingling, and undefined, that the
brain was filled as with a flickering dance of ghostly rainbows. But I had little time to think
of these; for out of the only dark corner in the room came a white figure, flitting across
the chaos of lights, bedewed, besprinkled, bespattered, as she passed, with their multitudinous
colours. I was speechless, motionless, with something far beyond joy. With a low moan of delight,
Lady Alice sank into my arms. Then, looking up, with a light laugh--"The scales are turned,
dear," she said. "You are in my power now; I brought you here. I thought I could, and I tried,
for I wanted so much to see you--and you are come." She led me across the room to the place
where she had been seated, and we sat side by side.

"I thought you had forgotten me," I said, "or had grown tired of me."

"Did you? That was unkind. You have made my heart so still, that, body and soul, I sleep at night."

"Then shall I never see you more?"

"We can meet here. This is the best place. No one dares come near the haunted room at night.
We might even venture in the evening. Look, now, from where we are sitting, across the air,
between the windows and the shadows on the floor. Do you see nothing moving?"

I looked, but could see nothing. She resumed:--

"I almost fancy, sometimes, that what old stories say about this room may be true. I could
fancy now that I see dim transparent forms in ancient armour, and in strange antique dresses,
men and women, moving about, meeting, speaking, embracing, parting, coming and going. But I
was never afraid of such beings. I am sure these would not, could not hurt us."

If the room was not really what it was well fitted to be--a rendezvous for the ghosts of the
past--then either my imagination, becoming more active as she spoke, began to operate upon
my brain, or her fancies were mysteriously communicated to me; for I was persuaded that I saw
such dim undefined forms as she described, of a substance only denser than the moonlight, flitting,
and floating about, between the windows and the illuminated floor. Could they have been coloured
shadows thrown from the stained glass upon the fine dust with which the slightest motion in
such an old and neglected room must fill its atmosphere? I did not think of that then, however.

"I could persuade myself that I, too, see them," I replied. "I cannot say that I am afraid
of such beings any more than you--if only they will not speak."

"Ah!" she replied, with a lengthened, meaning utterance, expressing sympathy with what I said;
"I know what you mean. I, too, am afraid of hearing things. And that reminds me, I have never
yet asked you about the galloping horse. I too hear sometimes the sound of a loose horse-shoe.
It always betokens some evil to me; but I do not know what it means. Do you?"

"Do you know," I rejoined, "that there is a connection between your family and mine, somewhere
far back in their histories?"

"No! Is there? How glad I am! Then perhaps you and I are related, and that is how we are so
much alike, and have power over each other, and hear the same things."

"Yes. I suppose that is how."

"But can you account for that sound which we both hear?"

"I will tell you what my old foster-mother told me," I replied. And I began by narrating when
and where I had first heard the sound; and then gave her, as nearly as I could, the legend
which nurse had recounted to me. I did not tell her its association with the events of my birth,
for I feared exciting her imagination too much. She listened to it very quietly, however, and
when I came to a close, only said:

"Of course, we cannot tell how much of it is true, but there may be something in it. I have
never heard anything of the sort, and I, too, have an old nurse. She is with me still. You
shall see her some day."

She rose to go.

"Will you meet me here again soon?" I said.

"As soon as you wish," she answered.

"Then to-morrow, at midnight?"

"Yes."

And we parted at the door of the haunted chamber. I watched the flickering with which her whiteness
just set the darkness in motion, and nothing more, seeming to see it long after I knew she
must have turned aside and descended the steps leading towards her own room. Then I turned
and groped my way back to mine.

We often met after this in the haunted room. Indeed my spirit haunted it all day and all night
long. And when we met amid the shadows, we were wrapped in the mantle of love, and from its
folds looked out fearless on the ghostly world about us. Ghosts or none, they never annoyed
us. Our love was a talisman, yea, an elixir of life, which made us equal to the twice-born,--the
disembodied dead. And they were as a wall of fear about us, to keep far off the unfriendly
foot and the prying eye.

In the griefs that followed, I often thought with myself that I would gladly die for a thousand
years, might I then awake for one night in the haunted chamber, a ghost, among the ghosts who
crowded its stained moonbeams, and see my dead Alice smiling across the glimmering rays, and
beckoning me to the old nook, she, too, having come awake out of the sleep of death, in the
dream of the haunted chamber. "Might we but sit there," I said, "through the night, as of old,
and love and comfort each other, till the moon go down, and the pale dawn, which is the night
of the ghosts, begin to arise, then gladly would I go to sleep for another thousand years,
in the hope that when I next became conscious of life, it might be in another such ghostly
night, in the chamber of the ghosts."

Chapter XVI

The Clanking Shoe.

Time passed. We began to feel very secure in that room, watched as it was by the sleepless
sentry, Fear. One night I ventured to take a light with me.

"How nice to have a candle!" she said as I entered. "I hope they are all in bed, though. It
will drive some of them into fits if they see the light."

"I wanted to show you something I found in the library to-day."

"What is it?"

I opened a book, and showed her a paper inside it, with some verses written on it.

"Whose writing is that?" I asked.

"Yours, of course. As if I did not know your writing!"

"Will you look at the date?"

"Seventeen hundred and ninety-three.' You are making game of me, Duncan. But the paper does
look yellow and old."

"I found it as you see it, in that book. It belonged to Lord Hilton's brother. The verses are
a translation of part of the poem beside which they lie--one by Von Salis, who died shortly
before that date at the bottom. I will read them to you, and then show you something else that
is strange about them. The poem is called Psyche's Sorrow. Psyche means the soul, Alice."

"I remember. You told me about her before, you know."

  "Psyche's sighing all her prison darkens;
  She is moaning for the far-off stars;
  Fearing, hoping, every sound she hearkens--
  Fate may now be breaking at her bars.

  Bound, fast bound, are Psyche's airy pinions:
  High her heart, her mourning soft and low--
  Knowing that in sultry pain's dominions
  Grow the palms that crown the victor's brow;

  That the empty hand the wreath encloses;
  Earth's cold winds but make the spirit brave;
  Knowing that the briars bear the roses,
  Golden flowers the waste deserted grave.

  In the cypress-shade her myrtle groweth;
  Much she loves, because she much hath borne;
  Love-led, through the darksome way she goeth--
  On to meet him in the breaking morn.

  She can bear--"

"Here the translation ceases, you see; and then follows the date, with the words in German
underneath it--'How weary I am!' Now what is strange, Alice, is, that this date is the very
month and year in which I was born."

She did not reply to this with anything beyond a mere assent. Her mind was fixed on the poem
itself. She began to talk about it, and I was surprised to find how thoroughly she entered
into it and understood it. She seemed to have crowded the growth of a lifetime into the last
few months. At length I told her how unhappy I had felt for some time, at remaining in Lord
Hilton's house, as matters now were.

"Then you must go," she said, quite quietly.

This troubled me.

"You do not mind it?"

"No. I shall be very glad."

"Will you go with me?" I asked, perplexed.

"Of course I will."

I did not know what to say to this, for I had no money, and of course I should have none of
my salary. She divined at once the cause of my hesitation.

"I have a diamond bracelet in my room," she said, with a smile, "and a few guineas besides."

"How shall we get away?"

"Nothing is easier. My old nurse, whom I mentioned to you before, lives at the lodge gate."

"Oh! I know her very well," I interrupted. "But she's not Scotch?"

"Indeed she is. But she has been with our family almost all her life. I often go to see her,
and sometimes stay all night with her. You can get a carriage ready in the village, and neither
of us will be missed before morning."

I looked at her in renewed surprise at the decision of her invention. She covered her face,
as she seldom did now, but went on:

"We can go to London, where you will easily find something to do. Men always can there. And
when I come of age--"

"Alice, how old are you?" I interrupted.

"Nineteen", she answered. "By the way," she resumed, "when I think of it--how odd!--that"--pointing
to the date on the paper--"is the very month in which I too was born."

I was too much surprised to interrupt her, and she continued:

"I never think of my age without recalling one thing about my birth, which nurse often refers
to. She was going up the stair to my mother's room, when she happened to notice a bright star,
not far from the new moon. As she crossed the room with me in her arms, just after I was born,
she saw the same star almost on the tip of the opposite horn. My mother died a week after.
Who knows how different I might have been if she had lived!"

It was long before I spoke. The awful and mysterious thoughts roused in my mind by the revelations
of the day held me silent. At length I said, half thinking aloud:

"Then you and I, Alice, were born the same hour, and our mothers died together."

Receiving no answer, I looked at her. She was fast asleep, and breathing gentle, full breaths.
She had been sitting for some time with her head lying on my shoulder and my arm around her.
I could not bear to wake her.

We had been in this position perhaps for half an hour, when suddenly a cold shiver ran through
me, and all at once I became aware of the far-off gallop of a horse. It drew nearer. On and
on it came--nearer and nearer. Then came the clank of the broken shoe!

At the same moment, Alice started from her sleep and, springing to her feet, stood an instant
listening. Then crying out, in an agonised whisper,--"The horse with the clanking shoe!" she
flung her arms around me. Her face was white as the spectral moon which, the moment I put the
candle out, looked in through a clear pane beside us; and she gazed fearfully, yet wildly-defiant,
towards the door. We clung to each other. We heard the sound come nearer and nearer, till it
thundered right up to the very door of the room, terribly loud. It ceased. But the door was
flung open, and Lord Hilton entered, followed by servants with lights.

I have but a very confused remembrance of what followed. I heard a vile word from the lips
of Lord Hilton; I felt my fingers on his throat; I received a blow on the head; and I seem
to remember a cry of agony from Alice as I fell. What happened next I do not know.

When I came to myself, I was lying on a wide moor, with the night wind blowing about me. I
presume that I had wandered thither in a state of unconsciousness, after being turned out of
the Hall, and that I had at last fainted from loss of blood. I was unable to move for a long
time. At length the morning broke, and I found myself not far from the Hall. I crept back,
a mile or two, to the gates, and having succeeded in rousing Alice's old nurse, was taken in
with many lamentations, and put to bed in the lodge. I had a violent fever; and it was all
the poor woman could do to keep my presence a secret from the family at the Hall.

When I began to mend, my first question was about Alice. I learned, though with some difficulty--for
my kind attendant was evidently unwilling to tell me all the truth--that Alice, too, had been
very ill; and that, a week before, they had removed her. But she either would not or could
not tell me where they had taken her. I believe she could not. Nor do I know for certain to
this day.

Mrs. Blakesley offered me the loan of some of her savings to get me to London. I received it
with gratitude, and as soon as I was fit to travel, made my way thither. Afraid for my reason,
if I had no employment to keep my thoughts from brooding on my helplessness, and so increasing
my despair, and determined likewise that my failure should not make me burdensome to any one
else, I enlisted in the Scotch Greys, before letting any of my friends know where I was. Through
the help of one already mentioned in my story, I soon obtained a commission. From the field
of Waterloo, I rode into Brussels with a broken arm and a sabre-cut in the head.

As we passed along one of the streets, through all the clang of iron-shod hoofs on the stones
around me, I heard the ominous clank. At the same moment, I heard a cry. It was the voice of
my Alice. I looked up. At a barred window I saw her face; but it was terribly changed. I dropped
from my horse. As soon as I was able to move from the hospital, I went to the place, and found
it was a lunatic asylum. I was permitted to see the inmates, but discovered no one resembling
her. I do not now believe that she was ever there. But I may be wrong. Nor will I trouble my
reader with the theories on which I sought to account for the vision. They will occur to himself
readily enough.

For years and years I know not whether she was alive or dead. I sought her far and near. I
wandered over England, France, and Germany, hopelessly searching; listening at tables-d'hote;
lurking about mad-houses; haunting theatres and churches; often, in wild regions, begging my
way from house to house; I did not find her.

Once I visited Hilton Hall. I found it all but deserted. I learned that Mrs. Wilson was dead,
and that there were only two or three servants in the place. Then he showed his sense of humor,
which he was known by.
"He traveled with a Quaker man, who stopped the coach at the Tuxford in. He gave the housekeeper
a sixpence and told her that he'd left it there when he'd been there a few years before that.
I being sassy, said, "Did you ever see the coach's motto?" He said no, so I told him to look
for it and that giving her the money now didn't uphold the motto of sat cito or sat bene. 
When
he got to London, he and his brother discussed the meaning of the motto, saying, "This is beyond
sat cito, nor is it sat bene."
He finished by seriously saying, "I became a carefully thinking judge
by this impression.

Some have said I think too much. The motto of sat cito, sat bene, I need to consider if it's
had enough of an influence on me.
The biggest asset of this story is the remembering of amazing people. This is the first time
we've heard the familiar story from Lord Eldon's book of anecdotes,
when he was going to be a judge in India. At this time, Sir Robert
threw snails in the neighbor's garden and the doctor retaliated, calling
him a bad neighbor. From room to room I wandered till weary,
and could not find her. At last, I gave up the search, and, retreating to the library, shut
myself in. There, taking down from the shelf the volume of Von Salis, I tried hard to go on
with the translation of Pysche's Sorrow, from the point where the student had left it, thinking
it, all the time, my own unfinished work.

When I woke in the morning, the chamber of ghosts, in which I had fallen asleep, had vanished.
The sun shone in through the windows of the library; and on its dusty table lay Von Salis,
open at Pysche's Trauer. The sheet of paper with the translation on it, was not there. I hastened
to leave the house, and effected my escape before the servants were astir.

Sometimes I condensed my whole being into a single intensity of will--that she should come
to me; and sustained it, until I fainted with the effort. She did not come. I desisted altogether
at last, for I bethought me that, whether dead or alive, it must cause her torture not to be
able to obey it.

Sometimes I questioned my own sanity. But the thought of the loss of my reason did not in itself
trouble me much. What tortured me almost to the madness it supposed was the possible fact,
which a return to my right mind might reveal--that there never had been a Lady Alice. What
if I died, and awoke from my madness, and found a clear blue air of life, a joyous world of
sunshine, a divine wealth of delight around and in me--but no Lady Alice--she having vanished
with all the other phantoms of a sick brain! "Rather let me be mad still," I said, "if mad
I am; and so dream on that I have been blessed. Were I to wake to such a heaven, I would pray
God to let me go and live the life I had but dreamed, with all its sorrows, and all its despair,
and all its madness, that when I died again, I might know that such things had been, and could
never be awaked from, and left behind with the dream." But I was not mad, any more than Hamlet;
though, like him, despair sometimes led me far along the way at the end of which madness lies.

CHAPTER XVII

The Physician.

I was now Captain Campbell, of the Scotch Greys, contriving to live on my half pay, and thinking
far more about the past than the present or the future. My father was dead. My only brother
was also gone, and the property had passed into other hands. I had no fixed place of abode,
but went from one spot to another, as the whim seized me--sometimes remaining months, sometimes
removing next day, but generally choosing retired villages about which I knew nothing.

I had spent a week in a small town on the borders of Wales, and intended remaining a fortnight
longer, when I was suddenly seized with a violent illness, in which I lay insensible for three
weeks. When I recovered consciousness, I found that my head had been shaved, and that the cicatrice
of my old wound was occasionally very painful. Of late I have suspected that I had some operation
performed upon my skull during my illness; but Dr. Ruthwell never dropped a hint to that effect.
This was the friend whom, when first I opened my seeing eyes, I beheld sitting by my bedside,
watching the effect of his last prescription. He was one of the few in the profession, whose
love of science and love of their fellows combined, would be enough to chain them to the art
of healing, irrespective of its emoluments. He was one of the few, also, who see the marvellous
in all science, and, therefore, reject nothing merely because the marvellous may seem to predominate
in it. Yet neither would he accept anything of the sort as fact, without the strictest use
of every experiment within his power, even then remaining often in doubt. This man conferred
honour by his friendship; and I am happy to think that before many days of recovery had passed,
we were friends indeed. But I lay for months under his care before I was able to leave my bed.

He attributed my illness to the consequences of the sabre-cut, and my recovery to the potency
of the drugs he had exhibited. I attributed my illness in great measure to the constant contemplation
of my early history, no longer checked by any regular employment; and my recovery in equal
measure to the power of his kindness and sympathy, helping from within what could never have
been reached from without.

He told me that he had often been greatly perplexed with my symptoms, which would suddenly
change in the most unaccountable manner, exhibiting phases which did not, as far as his knowledge
went, belong to any variety of the suffering which gave the prevailing character to my ailment;
and after I had so far recovered as to render it safe to turn my regard more particularly upon
my own case, he said to me one day,

"You would laugh at me, Campbell, were I to confess some of the bother this illness of yours
has occasioned me; enough, indeed, to overthrow any conceit I ever had in my own diagnosis."

"Go on," I answered; "I promise not to laugh."

He little knew how far I should be from laughing. "In your case," he continued, "the pathognomonic,
if you will excuse medical slang, was every now and then broken by the intrusion of altogether
foreign symptoms."

I listened with breathless attention.

"Indeed, on several occasions, when, after meditating on your case till I was worn out, I had
fallen half asleep by your bedside, I came to myself with the strangest conviction that I was
watching by the bedside of a woman."

"Thank Heaven!" I exclaimed, starting up, "She lives still."

I need not describe the doctor's look of amazement, almost consternation; for he thought a
fresh access of fever was upon me, and I had already begun to rave. For his reassurance, however,
I promised to account fully for my apparently senseless excitement; and that evening I commenced
the narrative which forms the preceeding part of this story. Long before I reached its close,
my exultation had vanished, and, as I wrote it for him, it ended with the expressed conviction
that she must be dead. Ere long, however, the hope once more revived. While, however, the narrative
was in progress, I gave him a summary, which amounted to this:--

I had loved a lady--loved her still. I did not know where she was, and had reason to fear that
her mind had given way under the suffering of our separation. Between us there existed, as
well, the bond of a distant blood relationship; so distant, that but for its probable share
in the production of another relationship of a very marvellous nature, it would scarcely have
been worth alluding to. This was a kind of psychological attraction, which, when justified
and strengthened by the spiritual energies of love, rendered the immediate communication of
certain feelings, both mental and bodily, so rapid, that almost the consciousness of the one
existed for the time in the mental circumstances of the other. Nay, so complete at times was
the communication, that I even doubted her testimony as to some strange correspondence in our
past history on this very ground, suspecting that, my memory being open to her retrospection,
she saw my story, and took it for her own. It was, therefore, easy for me to account for Dr.
Ruthwell's scientific bewilderment at the symptoms I manifested.

As my health revived, my hope and longing increased. But although I loved Lady Alice with more
entireness than even during the latest period of our intercourse, a certain calm endurance
had supervened, which rendered the relief of fierce action no longer necessary to the continuance
of a sane existence. It was as if the concentrated orb of love had diffused itself in a genial
warmth through the whole orb of life, imparting fresh vitality to many roots which had remained
leafless in my being. For years the field of battle was the only field that had borne the flower
of delight; now nature began to live again for me.

One day, the first on which I ventured to walk into the fields alone, I was delighted with
the multitude of the daisies peeping from the grass everywhere--the first attempts of the earth,
become conscious of blindness, to open eyes, and see what was about and above her. Everything
is wonderful after the resurrection from illness. It is a resurrection of all nature. But somehow
or other I was not satisfied with the daisies. They did not seem to me so lovely as the daisies
I used to see when I was a child. I thought with myself, "This is the cloud that gathers with
life, the dimness that passion and suffering cast over the eyes of the mind." That moment my
gaze fell upon a single, solitary, red-tipped daisy. My reasoning vanished, and my melancholy
with it, slain by the red tips of the lonely beauty. This was the kind of daisy I had loved
as a child; and with the sight of it, a whole field of them rushed back into my mind; a field
of my father's where, throughout the multitude, you could not have found a white one. My father
was dead; the fields had passed into other hands; but perhaps the red-tipped gowans were left.
I must go and see. At all events, the hill that overlooked the field would still be there,
and no change would have passed upon it. It would receive me with the same familiar look as
of old, still fronting the great mountain from whose sides I had first heard the sound of that
clanking horseshoe, which, whatever might be said to account for it, had certainly had a fearful
connection with my joys and sorrows both. Did the ghostly rider still haunt the place? or,
if he did, should I hear again that sound of coming woe? Whether or not, I defied him. I would
not be turned from my desire to see the old place by any fear of a ghostly marauder, whom I
should be only too glad to encounter, if there were the smallest chance of coming off with
the victory.

As soon as my friend would permit me, I set out for Scotland.

CHAPTER XVIII

Old Friends.

I made the journey by easy stages, chiefly on the back of a favourite black horse, which had
carried me well in several fights, and had come out of them scarred, like his master, but sound
in wind and limb. It was night when I reached the village lying nearest to my birth place.

When I woke in the morning, I found the whole region filled with a white mist, hiding the mountains
around. Now and then a peak looked through, and again retired into the cloudy folds. In the
wide, straggling street, below the window at which I had made them place my breakfast-table,
a periodical fair was being held; and I sat looking down on the gathering crowd, trying to
discover some face known to my childhood, and still to be recognized through the veil which
years must have woven across the features. When I had finished my breakfast, I went down and
wandered about among the people. Groups of elderly men were talking earnestly; and young men
and maidens who had come to be fee'd, were joking and laughing. They stared at the Sassenach
gentleman, and, little thinking that he understood every word they uttered, made their remarks
upon him in no very subdued tones. I approached a stall where a brown old woman was selling
gingerbread and apples. She was talking to a man with long, white locks. Near them was a group
of young people. One of them must have said something about me; for the old woman, who had
been taking stolen glances at me, turned rather sharply towards them, and rebuked them for
rudeness.

"The gentleman is no Sassenach," she said. "He understands everything you are saying."

This was spoken in Gaelic, of course. I turned and looked at her with more observance. She
made me a courtesy, and said, in the same language:

"Your honour will be a Campbell, I'm thinking."

"I am a Campbell," I answered, and waited.

"Your honour's Christian name wouldn't be Duncan, sir?"

"It is Duncan," I answered; "but there are many Duncan Campbells."

"Only one to me, your honour; and that's yourself. But you will not remember me?"

I did not remember her. Before long, however, urged by her anxiety to associate her Present
with my Past, she enabled me to recall in her time-worn features those of a servant in my father's
house when I was a child.

"But how could you recollect me?" I said.

"I have often seen you since I left your father's, sir. But it was really, I believe, that
I hear more about you than anything else, every day of my life."

"I do not understand you."

"From old Margaret, I mean."

"Dear old Margaret! Is she alive?"

"Alive and hearty, though quite bedridden. Why, sir, she must be within near sight of a hundred."

"Where does she live?"

"In the old cottage, sir. Nothing will make her leave it. The new laird wanted to turn her
out; but Margaret muttered something at which he grew as white as his shirt, and he has never
ventured across her threshold again."

"How do you see so much of her, though?"

"I never leave her, sir. She can't wait on herself, poor old lady. And she's like a mother
to me. Bless her! But your honour will come and see her?"

"Of course I will. Tell her so when you go home."

"Will you honour me by sleeping at my house, sir?" said the old man to whom she had been talking.
"My farm is just over the brow of the hill, you know."

I had by this time recognised him, and I accepted his offer at once.

"When may we look for you, sir?" he asked.

"When shall you be home?" I rejoined.

"This afternoon, sir. I have done my business already."

"Then I shall be with you in the evening, for I have nothing to keep me here."

"Will you take a seat in my gig?"

"No, thank you. I have my own horse with me. You can take him in too, I dare say?"

"With pleasure, sir."

We parted for the meantime. I rambled about the neighbourhood till it was time for an early dinner.

Chapter XIX

Old Constancy.

The fog cleared off; and, as the hills began to throw long, lazy shadows, their only embraces
across the wide valleys, I mounted and set out on the ride of a few miles which should bring
me to my old acquaintance's dwelling.

I lingered on the way. All the old places demanded my notice. They seemed to say, "Here we
are--waiting for you." Many a tuft of harebells drew me towards the roadside, to look at them
and their children, the blue butterflies, hovering over them; and I stopped to gaze at many
a wild rosebush, with a sunset of its own roses. The sun had set to me, before I had completed
half the distance. But there was a long twilight, and I knew the road well.

My horse was an excellent walker, and I let him walk on, with the reins on his neck; while
I, lost in a dream of the past, was singing a song of my own making, with which I often comforted
my longing by giving it voice.

  The autumn winds are sighing
  Over land and sea;
  The autumn woods are dying
  Over hill and lea;
  And my heart is sighing, dying,
  Maiden, for thee.

  The autumn clouds are flying
  Homeless over me;
  The homeless birds are crying
  In the naked tree;
  And my heart is flying, crying,
  Maiden, to thee.

  My cries may turn to gladness,
  And my flying flee;
  My sighs may lose the sadness,
  Yet sigh on in me;
  All my sadness, all my gladness,
  Maiden, lost in thee.

I was roused by a heavy drop of rain upon my face. I looked up. A cool wave of wind flowed
against me. Clouds had gathered; and over the peak of a hill to the left, the sky was very
black. Old Constancy threw his head up, as if he wanted me to take the reins, and let him step
out. I remembered that there used to be an awkward piece of road somewhere not far in front,
where the path, with a bank on the left side, sloped to a deep descent on the right. If the
road was as bad there as it used to be, it would be better to pass it before it grew quite
dark. So I took the reins, and away went old Constancy. We had just reached the spot, when
a keen flash of lightning broke from the cloud overhead, and my horse instantly stood stock-still,
as if paralysed, with his nostrils turned up towards the peak of the mountain. I sat as still
as he, to give him time to recover himself. But all at once, his whole frame was convulsed,
as if by an agony of terror. He gave a great plunge, and then I felt his muscles swelling and
knotting under me, as he rose on his hind legs, and went backwards, with the scaur behind him.
I leaned forward on his neck to bring him down, but he reared higher and higher, till he stood
bolt upright, and it was time to slip off, lest he should fall upon me. I did so; but my foot
alighted upon no support. He had backed to the edge of the shelving ground, and I fell, and
went to the bottom. The last thing I was aware of, was the thundering fall of my horse beside me.

When I came to myself, it was dark. I felt stupid and aching all over; but I soon satisfied
myself that no bones were broken. A mass of something lay near me. It was poor Constancy. I
crawled to him, laid my hand on his neck, and called him by his name. But he made no answer
in that gentle, joyful speech--for it was speech in old Constancy--with which he always greeted
me, if only after an hour's absence. I felt for his heart. There was just a flutter there.
He tried to lift his head, and gave a little kick with one of his hind legs. In doing so, he
struck a bit of rock, and the clank of the iron made my flesh creep. I got hold of his leg
in the dark, and felt the shoe. It was loose. I felt his heart again. The motion had ceased.
I needed all my manhood to keep from crying like a child; for my charger was my friend. How
long I lay beside him, I do not know; but, at length, I heard the sound of wheels coming along
the road. I tried to shout, and, in some measure, succeeded; for a voice, which I recognised
as that of my farmer-friend, answered cheerily. He was shocked to discover that his expected
guest was in such evil plight. It was still dark, for the rain was falling heavily; but, with
his directions, I was soon able to take my seat beside him in the gig. He had been unexpectedly
detained, and was now hastening home with the hope of being yet in time to welcome me.

Next morning, after the luxurious rest of a heather-bed, I found myself not much the worse
for my adventure, but heart-sore for the loss of my horse.

CHAPTER XX

Margaret.

Early in the forenoon, I came in sight of the cottage of Margaret. It lay unchanged, a grey,
stone-fashioned hut, in the hollow of the mountain-basin. I scrambled down the soft green brae,
and soon stood within the door of the cottage. There I was met and welcomed by Margaret's attendant.
She led me to the bed where my old nurse lay. Her eyes were yet undimmed by years, and little
change had passed upon her countenance since I parted with her on that memorable night. The
moment she saw me, she broke out into a passionate lamentation such as a mother might utter
over the maimed strength and disfigured beauty of her child.

"What ill has he done--my bairn--to be all night the sport of the powers of the air and the
wicked of the earth? But the day will dawn for my Duncan yet, and a lovely day it will be!"

Then looking at me anxiously, she said,

"You're not much the worse for last night, my bairn. But woe's me! His grand horse, that carried
him so, that I blessed the beast in my prayers!"

I knew that no one could have yet brought her the news of my accident.

"You saw me fall, then, nurse?" I said.

"That I did," she answered. "I see you oftener than you think. But there was a time when I
could hardly see you at all, and I thought you were dead, my Duncan."

I stooped to kiss her. She laid the one hand that had still the power of motion upon my head,
and dividing the hair, which had begun to be mixed with grey, said: "Eh! The bonny grey hairs!
My Duncan's a man in spite of them!"

She searched until she found the scar of the sabre-cut.

"Just where I thought to find it!" she said. "That was a terrible day; worse for me than for
you, Duncan."

"You saw me then!" I exclaimed.

"Little do folks know," she answered, "who think I'm lying here like a live corpse in its coffin,
what liberty my soul--and that's just me--enjoys. Little do they know what I see and hear.
And there's no witchcraft or evil-doing in it, my boy; but just what the Almighty made me.
Janet, here, declares she heard the cry that I made, when this same cut, that's no so well
healed yet, broke out in your bonny head. I saw no sword, only the bursting of the blood from
the wound. But sit down, my bairn, and have something to eat after your walk. We'll have time
enough for speech."

Janet had laid out the table with fare of the old homely sort, and I was a boy once more as
I ate the well-known food. Every now and then I glanced towards the old face. Soon I saw that
she was asleep. From her lips broke murmured sounds, so partially connected that I found it
impossible to remember them; but the impression they left on my mind was something like this,

"Over the water. Yes; it is a rough sea--green and white. But over the water. There is a path
for the pathless. The grass on the hill is long and cool. Never horse came there. If they once
sleep in that grass, no harm can hurt them more. Over the water. Up the hill." And then she
murmured the words of the psalm: "He that dwelleth in the secret place."

For an hour I sat beside her. It was evidently a sweet, natural sleep, the most wonderful sleep
of all, mingled with many a broken dream-rainbow. I rose at last, and, telling Janet that I
would return in the evening, went back to my quarters; for my absence from the mid-day meal
would have been a disappointment to the household.

When I returned to the cottage, I found Margaret only just awaked, and greatly refreshed. I
sat down beside her in the twilight, and the following conversation began:

"You said, nurse, that, some time ago, you could not see me. Did you know nothing about me
all that time?" "I took it to mean that you were ill, my dear. Shortly after you left us, the
same thing happened first; but I do not think you were ill then."

"I should like to tell you all my story, dear Margaret," I said, conceiving a sudden hope of
assistance from one who hovered so near the unseen that she often flitted across the borders.
"But would it tire you?"

"Tire me, my child!" she said, with sudden energy. "Did I not carry you in my bosom, till I
loved you more than the darling I had lost? Do I not think about you and your fortunes, till,
sitting there, you are no nearer to me than when a thousand miles away? You do not know my
love to you, Duncan. I have lived upon it when, I daresay, you did not care whether I was alive
or dead. But that was all one to my love. When you leave me now, I shall not care much. My
thoughts will only return to their old ways. I think the sight of the eyes is sometimes an
intrusion between the heart and its love."

Here was philosophy, or something better, from the lips of an old Highland seeress! For me,
I felt it so true, that the joy of hearing her say so turned, by a sudden metamorphosis, into
freak. I pretended to rise, and said:

"Then I had better go, nurse. Good-bye."

She put out her one hand, with a smile that revealed her enjoyment of the poor humour, and
said, while she held me fast:

"Nay, nay, my Duncan. A little of the scarce is sometimes dearer to us than much of the better.
I shall have plenty of time to think about you when I can't see you, my boy." And her philosophy
melted away into tears, that filled her two blue eyes.

"I was only joking," I said.

"Do you need to tell me that?" she rejoined, smiling. "I am not so old as to be stupid yet.
But I want to hear your story. I am hungering to hear it."

"But," I whispered, "I cannot speak about it before anyone else."

"I will send Janet away. Janet, I want to talk to Mr. Campbell alone."

"Very well, Margaret," answered Janet, and left the room.

"Will she listen?" I asked.

"She dares not," answered Margaret, with a smile; "she has a terrible idea of my powers."

The twilight grew deeper; the glow of the peat-fire became redder; the old woman lay still
as death. And I told all the story of Lady Alice. My voice sounded to myself as I spoke, not
like my own, but like its echo from the vault of some listening cave, or like the voices one
hears beside as sleep is slowly creeping over the sense. Margaret did not once interrupt me.
When I had finished she remained still silent, and I began to fear I had talked her asleep.

"Can you help me?" I said.

"I think I can," she answered. "Will you call Janet?" I called her.

"Make me a cup of tea, Janet. Will you have some tea with me, Duncan?"

Janet lighted a little lamp, and the tea was soon set out, with "flour-scons" and butter. But
Margaret ate nothing; she only drank her tea, lifting her cup with her one trembling hand.
When the remains of our repast had been removed, she said:--

"Now, Janet, you can leave us; and on no account come into the room till Mr. Campbell calls
you. Take the lamp with you."

Janet obeyed without a word of reply, and we were left once more alone, lighted only by the
dull glow of the fire.

The night had gathered cloudy and dark without, reminding me of that night when she told me
the story of the two brothers. But this time no storm disturbed the silence of the night. As
soon as Janet was gone, Margaret said:--

"Will you take the pillow from under my head, Duncan, my dear?"

I did so, and she lay in an almost horizontal position. With the living hand she lifted the
powerless arm, and drew it across her chest, outside the bed-clothes. Then she laid the other
arm over it, and, looking up at me, said:--

"Kiss me, my bairn; I need strength for what I am going to do for your sake."

I kissed her.

"There now!" she said, "I am ready. Good-bye. Whatever happens, do not speak to me; and let
no one come near me but yourself. It will be wearisome for you, but it is for your sake, my
Duncan. And don't let the fire out. Don't leave me."

I assured her I would attend to all she said. She closed her eyes, and lay still. The Chief Justice
allowed a second motion for adjournment, to enable the colonial secretary to correct these
discrepancies. When the Council reconvened on the 25th, the governor said that considering the
members' resolution to refuse all expense-related items pertaining to convictism, and the
general state of popular opinion, he had decided to suspend the proceedings and await the
arrival of Lord Stanley's replies to his previous dispatches.

Sir E. Wilmot understood the financial burden inflicted by the penal
colonies.

A committee of government officers sat shortly after his arrival,
to discuss the numerous and significant items that could be traced
to the prevention and punishment of crime. I had again replenished the fire--that is all I know about the
lapse of the time--when, suddenly, a kind of physical repugnance and terror seized me, and
I sat upright in my chair, with every fibre of my flesh protesting against some--shall I call
it presence?--in its neighbourhood. But my real self repelled the invading cold, and took courage
for any contest that might be at hand. Like Macbeth, I only inhabited trembling; I did not
tremble. I had withdrawn my gaze from the fire, and fixed it upon the little window, about
two feet square, at which the dark night looked in. Why or when I had done so I knew not.

What I next relate, I relate only as what seemed to happen. I do not altogether trust myself
in the matter, and think I was subjected to a delusion of some sort or other. My feelings of
horror grew as I looked through or rather at the window, till, notwithstanding all my resolution
and the continued assurance that nothing could make me turn my back on the cause of the terror,
I was yet so far possessed by a feeling I could neither account for nor control, that I felt
my hair rise upon my head, as if instinct with individual fear of its own--the only instance
of the sort in my experience.--In such a condition, the sensuous nerves are so easily operated
upon, either from within or from without, that all certainty ceases.

I saw two fiery eyes looking in at the window, huge, and wide apart. Next, I saw the outline
of a horse's head, in which the eyes were set; and behind, the dimmer outline of a man's form
seated on the horse. The apparition faded and reappeared, just as if it retreated, and again
rode up close to the window. Curiously enough, I did not even fancy that I heard any sound.
Instinctively I felt for my sword, but there was no sword there. And what would it have availed
me? Probably I was in more need of a soothing draught. But the moment I put my hand to the
imagined sword-hilt, a dim figure swept between me and the horseman, on my side of the window--a
tall, stately female form. She stood facing the window, in an attitude that seemed to dare
the further approach of a foe. How long she remained thus, or he confronted her, I have no
idea; for when self-consciousness returned, I found myself still gazing at the window from
which both apparitions had vanished. Whether I had slept, or, from the relaxation of mental
tension, had only forgotten, I could not tell; but all fear had vanished, and I proceeded at
once to make up the sunken fire. Throughout the time I am certain I never heard the clanking
shoe, for that I should have remembered.

The rest of the night passed without any disturbance; and when the first rays of the early
morning came into the room, they awoke me from a comforting sleep in the arm-chair. I rose
and approached the bed softly.

Margaret lay as still as death. But having been accustomed to similar conditions in my Alice,
I believed I saw signs of returning animation, and withdrew to my seat. Nor was I mistaken;
for, in a few minutes more, she murmured my name. I hastened to her.

"Call Janet," she said.

I opened the door, and called her. She came in a moment, looking at once frightened and relieved.

"Get me some tea," said Margaret once more.

After she had drunk the tea, she looked at me, and said,

"Go home now, Duncan, and come back about noon. Mind you go to bed."

She closed her eyes once more. I waited till I saw her fast in an altogether different sleep
from the former, if sleep that could in any sense be called.

As I went, I looked back on the vision of the night as on one of those illusions to which the
mind, busy with its own suggestions, is always liable. The night season, simply because it
excludes the external, is prolific in such. The more of the marvellous any one may have experienced
in the course of his history, the more sceptical ought he to become, for he is the more exposed
to delusion. None have made more blunders in the course of their revelations than genuine seers.
Was it any wonder that, as I sat at midnight beside the woman of a hundred years, who had voluntarily
died for a time that she might discover what most of all things it concerned me to know, the
ancient tale, on which, to her mind, my whole history turned, and which she had herself told
me in this very cottage, should take visible shape to my excited brain and watching eyes?

I have one thing more to tell, which strengthens still further this view of the matter. As
I walked home, before I had gone many hundred yards from the cottage, I suddenly came upon
my own old Constancy. He was limping about, picking the best grass he could find from among
the roots of the heather and cranberry bushes. He gave a start when I came upon him, and then
a jubilant neigh.

But he could not be so glad as I was. When I had taken sufficient pains to let him know this
fact, I walked on, and he followed me like a dog, with his head at my heel; but as he limped
much, I turned to examine him; and found one cause of his lameness to be, that the loose shoe,
which was a hind one, was broken at the toe; and that one half, held only at the toe, had turned
round and was sticking right out, striking his forefoot every time he moved. I soon remedied
this, and he walked much better.

But the phenomena of the night, and the share my old horse might have borne in them, were not
the subjects, as may well be supposed, that occupied my mind most, on my walk to the farm.
Was it possible that Margaret might have found out something about her? That was the one question.

After removing the anxiety of my hostess, and partaking of their Highland breakfast, a ceremony
not to be completed without a glass of peaty whisky, I wandered to my ancient haunt on the
hill. Thence I could look down on my old home, where it lay unchanged, though not one human
form, which had made it home to me, moved about its precincts. I went no nearer. I no more
felt that that was home, than one feels that the form in the coffin is the departed dead. I
sat down in my old study-chamber among the rocks, and thought that if I could but find Alice
she would be my home--of the past as well as of the future;--for in her mind my necromantic
words would recall the departed, and we should love them together.

Towards noon I was again at the cottage.

Margaret was sitting up in bed, waiting for me. She looked weary, but cheerful; and a clean
white mutch gave her a certain company-air. Janet left the room directly, and Margaret motioned
me to a chair by her side. I sat down. She took my hand, and said,

"Duncan, my boy, I fear I can give you but little help; but I will tell you all I know. If
I were to try to put into words the things I had to encounter before I could come near her,
you would not understand what I meant. Nor do I understand the things myself. They seem quite
plain to me at the time, but very cloudy when I come back. But I did succeed in getting one
glimpse of her. She was fast asleep. She seemed to have suffered much, for her face was very
thin, and as patient as it was pale."

"But where was she?"

"I must leave you to find out that, if you can, from my description. But, alas! it is only
the places immediately about the persons that I can see. Where they are, or how far I have
gone to get there, I cannot tell."

She then gave me a rather minute description of the chamber in which the lady was lying. Though
most of the particulars were unknown to me, the conviction, or hope at least, gradually dawned
upon me, that I knew the room. Once or twice I had peeped into the sanctuary of Lady Alice's
chamber, when I knew she was not there; and some points in the description Margaret gave set
my heart in a tremor with the bare suggestion that she might now be at Hilton Hall.

"Tell me, Margaret," I said, almost panting for utterance, "was there a mirror over the fireplace,
with a broad gilt frame, carved into huge representations of crabs and lobsters, and all crawling
sea-creatures with shells on them--very ugly, and very strange?"

She would have interrupted me before, but I would not be stopped.

"I must tell you, my dear Duncan," she answered, "that in none of these trances, or whatever
you please to call them, did I ever see a mirror. It has struck me before as a curious thing,
that a mirror is then an absolute blank to me--I see nothing on which I could put a name. It
does not even seem a vacant space to me. A mirror must have nothing in common with the state
I am then in, for I feel a kind of repulsion from it; and indeed it would be rather an awful
thing to look at, for of course I should see no reflection of myself in it."

(Here I beg once more to remind the reader, that Margaret spoke in Gaelic, and that my translation
into ordinary English does not in the least represent the extreme simplicity of the forms of
her speculations, any more than of the language which conveyed them.)

"But," she continued, "I have a vague recollection of seeing some broad, big, gilded thing
with figures on it. It might be something else, though, altogether."

"I will go in hope," I answered, rising at once.

"Not already, Duncan?"

"Why should I stay longer?"

"Stay over to-night."

"What is the use? I cannot."

"For my sake, Duncan!"

"Yes, dear Margaret; for your sake. Yes, surely."

"Thank you," she answered. "I will not keep you longer now. But if I send Janet to you, come
at once. And, Duncan, wear this for my sake."

She put into my hand an ancient gold cross, much worn. To my amazement I recognised the counterpart
of one Lady Alice had always worn. I pressed it to my heart.

"I am a Catholic; you are a Protestant, Duncan; but never mind: that's the same sign to both
of us. You won't part with it. It has been in our family for many long years."

"Not while I live," I answered, and went out, half wild with hope, into the keen mountain air.
How deliciously it breathed upon me!

I passed the afternoon in attempting to form some plan of action at Hilton Hall, whither I
intended to proceed as soon as Margaret set me at liberty. That liberty came sooner than I
expected; and yet I did not go at once. Janet came for me towards sundown. I thought she looked
troubled. I rose at once and followed her, but asked no questions. As I entered the cottage,
the sun was casting the shadow of the edge of the hollow in which the cottage stood just at
my feet; that is, the sun was more than half set to one who stood at the cottage door. I entered.

Margaret sat, propped with pillows. I saw some change had passed upon her. She held out her
hand to me. I took it. She smiled feebly, closed her eyes, and went with the sun, down the
hill of night. But down the hill of night is up the hill of morning in other lands, and no
doubt Margaret soon found that she was more at home there than here.

I sat holding the dead hand, as if therein lay some communion still with the departed. Perhaps
she who saw more than others while yet alive, could see when dead that I held her cold hand
in my warm grasp. Had I not good cause to love her? She had exhausted the last remnants of
her life in that effort to find for me my lost Alice. Whether she had succeeded I had yet to
discover. Perhaps she knew now.

I hastened the funeral a little, that I might follow my quest. I had her grave dug amidst her
own people and mine; for they lay side by side. The whole neighbourhood for twenty miles round
followed Margaret to the grave. Such was her character and reputation, that the belief in her
supernatural powers had only heightened the notion of her venerableness.

When I had seen the last sod placed on her grave, I turned and went, with a desolate but hopeful
heart. I had a kind of feeling that her death had sealed the truth of her last vision. I mounted
old Constancy at the churchyard gate, and set out for Hilton Hall.

CHAPTER XXI

Hilton.

It was a dark, drizzling night when I arrived at the little village of Hilton, within a mile
of the Hall. I knew a respectable second-rate inn on the side next the Hall, to which the gardener
and other servants had been in the habit of repairing of an evening; and I thought I might
there stumble upon some information, especially as the old-fashioned place had a large kitchen
in which all sorts of guests met. When I reflected on the utter change which time, weather,
and a great scar must have made upon me, I feared no recognition. But what was my surprise
when, by one of those coincidences which have so often happened to me, I found in the ostler
one of my own troop at Waterloo! His countenance and salute convinced me that he recognised
me. I said to him:

"I know you perfectly, Wood; but you must not know me. I will go with you to the stable."

He led the way instantly.

"Wood," I said, when we had reached the shelter of the stable, "I don't want to be known here,
for reasons which I will explain to you another time."

"Very well, sir. You may depend on me, sir."

"I know I may, and I shall. Do you know anybody about the Hall?"

"Yes, sir. The gardener comes here sometimes, sir. I believe he's in the house now. Shall I
ask him to step this way, sir?"

"No. All I want is to learn who is at the Hall now. Will you get him talking? I shall be by,
having something to drink."

"Yes, sir. As soon as I have rubbed down the old horse, sir--bless him!"

"You'll find me there."

I went in, and, with my condition for an excuse, ordered something hot by the kitchen-fire.
Several country people were sitting about it. They made room for me, and I took my place at
a table on one side. I soon discovered the gardener, although time had done what he could to
disguise him. Wood came in presently, and, loitering about, began to talk to him.

"What's the last news at the Hall, William?" he said.

"News!" answered the old man, somewhat querulously. "There's never nothing but news up there,
and very new-fangled news, too. What do you think, now, John? They do talk of turning all them
greenhouses into hothouses; for, to be sure, there's nothing the new missus cares about but
just the finest grapes in the country; and the flowers, purty creatures, may go to the devil
for her. There's a lady for ye!"

"But you'll be glad to have her home, and see what she's like, won't you? It's rather dull
up there now, isn't it?"

"I don't know what you call dull," replied the old man, as if half offended at the suggestion.
"I don't believe a soul missed his lordship when he died; and there's always Mrs. Blakesley
and me, as is the best friends in the world, besides the three maids and the stableman, who
helps me in the garden, now there's no horses. And then there's Jacob and--"

"But you don't mean," said Wood, interrupting him, "that there's none o' the family at home now?"

"No. Who should there be? Least ways, only the poor lady. And she hardly counts now--bless
her sweet face!"

"Do you ever see her?" interposed one of the by-sitters.

"Sometimes."

"Is she quite crazy?"

"Al-to-gether; but that quiet and gentle, you would think she was an angel instead of a mad
woman. But not a notion has she in her head, no more than the babe unborn."

It was a dreadful shock to me. Was this to be the end of all? Were it not better she had died?
For me, life was worthless now. And there were no wars, with the chance of losing it honestly.

I rose, and went to my own room. As I sat in dull misery by the fire, it struck me that it
might not have been Lady Alice after all that the old man spoke about. That moment a tap came
to my door, and Wood entered. After a few words, I asked him who was the lady the gardener
had said was crazy.

"Lady Alice," he answered, and added: "A love story, that came to a bad end up at the Hall
years ago. A tutor was in it, they say. But I don't know the rights of it."

When he left me, I sat in a cold stupor, in which the thoughts--if thoughts they could be called--came
and went of themselves. Overcome by the appearances of things--as what man the strongest may
not sometimes be?--I felt as if I had lost her utterly, as if there was no Lady Alice anywhere,
and as if, to add to the vacant horror of the world without her, a shadow of her, a goblin
simulacrum, soul-less, unreal, yet awfully like her, went wandering about the place which had
once been glorified by her presence--as to the eyes of seers the phantoms of events which have
happened years before are still visible, clinging to the room in which they have indeed taken
place. But, in a little while, something warm began to throb and flow in my being; and I thought
that if she were dead, I should love her still; that now she was not worse than dead; it was
only that her soul was out of sight. Who could tell but it might be wandering in worlds of
too noble shapes and too high a speech, to permit of representation in the language of the
world in which her bodily presentation remained, and therefore her speech and behaviour seemed
to men to be mad? Nay, was it not in some sense better for me that it should be so? To see
once the pictured likeness of her of whom I had no such memorial, would I not give years of
my poverty-stricken life? And here was such a statue of her, as that of his wife which the
widowed king was bending before, when he said:--

  "What fine chisel
  Could ever yet cut breath?"

This statue I might see, "looking like an angel," as the gardener had said. And, while the
bond of visibility remained, must not the soul be, somehow, nearer to the earth, than if the
form lay decaying beneath it? Was there not some possibility that the love for whose sake the
reason had departed, might be able to recall that reason once more to the windows of sense,--make
it look forth at those eyes, and lie listening in the recesses of those ears? In her somnambulic
sleeps, the present body was the sign that the soul was within reach: so it might be still.

Mrs. Blakesley was still at the lodge, then: I would call upon her to-morrow. I went to bed,
and dreamed all night that Alice was sitting somewhere in a land "full of dark mountains,"
and that I was wandering about in the darkness, alternately calling and listening; sometimes
fancying I heard a faint reply, which might be her voice or an echo of my own; but never finding
her. I woke in an outburst of despairing tears, and my despair was not comforted by my waking.

CHAPTER XXII

The Sleeper.

It was a lovely morning in autumn. I walked to the Hall. I entered at the same gate by which
I had entered first, so many years before. But it was not Mrs. Blakesley that opened it. I
inquired after her, and the woman told me that she lived at the Hall now, and took care of
Lady Alice. So far, this was hopeful news.

I went up the same avenue, through the same wide grassy places, saw the same statue from whose
base had arisen the lovely form which soon became a part of my existence. Then everything looked
rich, because I had come from a poor, grand country. In all my wanderings I had seen nothing
so rich; yet now it seemed poverty-stricken. That it was autumn could not account for this;
for I had always found that the sadness of autumn vivified the poetic sense; and that the colours
of decay had a pathetic glory more beautiful than the glory of the most gorgeous summer with
all its flowers. It was winter within me--that was the reason; and I could feel no autumn around
me, because I saw no spring beyond me. It had fared with my mind as with the garden in the
Sensitive Plant, when the lady was dead. I was amazed and troubled at the stolidity with which
I walked up to the door, and, having rung the bell, waited. No sweet memories of the past arose
in my mind; not one of the well-known objects around looked at me as claiming a recognition.
Yet, when the door was opened, my heart beat so violently at the thought that I might see her,
that I could hardly stammer out my inquiry after Mrs. Blakesley.

I was shown to a room. None of the sensations I had had on first crossing the threshold were
revived. I remembered them all; I felt none of them. Mrs. Blakesley came. She did not recognise
me. I told her who I was. She stared at me for a moment, seemed to see the same face she had
known still glimmering through all the changes that had crowded upon it, held out both her
hands, and burst into tears.

"Mr. Campbell," she said, "you are changed! But not like her. She's the same to look at; but,
oh dear!"

We were both silent for some time. At length she resumed:--

"Come to my room; I have been mistress here for some time now."

I followed her to the room Mrs. Wilson used to occupy. She put wine on the table. I told her
my story. My labours, and my wounds, and my illness, slightly touched as I trust they were
in the course of the tale, yet moved all her womanly sympathies.

"What can I do for you, Mr. Campbell?" she said.

"Let me see her," I replied.

She hesitated for a moment.

"I dare not, sir. I don't know what it might do to her. It might send her raving; and she is
so quiet."

"Has she ever raved?"

"Not often since the first week or two. Now and then occasionally, for an hour or so, she would
be wild, wanting to get out. But she gave that over altogether; and she has had her liberty
now for a long time. But, Heaven bless her! at the worst she was always a lady."

"And am I to go away without even seeing her?"

"I am very sorry for you, Mr. Campbell."

I felt hurt--foolishly, I confess--and rose. She put her hand on my arm.

"I'll tell you what I'll do, sir. She always falls asleep in the afternoon; you may see her
asleep, if you like."

"Thank you; thank you," I answered. "That will be much better. When shall I come?"

"About three o'clock."

I went wandering about the woods, and at three I was again in the housekeeper's room. She came
to me presently, looking rather troubled.

"It is very odd," she began, the moment she entered, "but for the first time, I think, for
years, she's not for her afternoon sleep."

"Does she sleep at night?" I asked.

"Like a bairn. But she sleeps a great deal; and the doctor says that's what keeps her so quiet.
She would go raving again, he says, if the sleep did not soothe her poor brain."

"Could you not let me see her when she is asleep to-night?"

Again she hesitated, but presently replied:--

"I will, sir; but I trust to you never to mention it."

"Of course I will not."

"Come at ten o'clock, then. You will find the outer door on this side open. Go straight to
my room."

With renewed thanks I left her and, once again betaking myself to the woods, wandered about
till night, notwithstanding signs of an approaching storm. I thus kept within the boundaries
of the demesne, and had no occasion to request re-admittance at any of the gates.

As ten struck on the tower-clock, I entered Mrs. Blakesley's room. She was not there. I sat
down. In a few minutes she came.

"She is fast asleep," she said. "Come this way."

I followed, trembling. She led me to the same room Lady Alice used to occupy. The door was
a little open. She pushed it gently, and I followed her in. The curtains towards the door were
drawn. Mrs. Blakesley took me round to the other side.--There lay the lovely head, so phantom-like
for years, coming only in my dreams; filling now, with a real presence, the eyes that had longed
for it, as if in them dwelt an appetite of sight. It calmed my heart at once, which had been
almost choking me with the violence of its palpitation. "That is not the face of insanity,"
I said to myself. "It is clear as the morning light." As I stood gazing, I made no comparisons
between the past and the present, although I was aware of some difference--of some measure
of the unknown fronting me; I was filled with the delight of beholding the face I loved--full,
as it seemed to me, of mind and womanhood; sleeping--nothing more. I murmured a fervent "Thank
God!" and was turning away with a feeling of satisfaction for all the future, and a strange
great hope beginning to throb in my heart, when, after a little restless motion of her head
on the pillow, her patient lips began to tremble. My soul rushed into my ears.

"Mr. Campbell," she murmured, "I cannot spell; what am I to do to learn?"

The unexpected voice, naming my name, sounded in my ears like a voice from the far-off regions
where sighing is over. Then a smile gleamed up from the depths unseen, and broke and melted
away all over her face. But her nurse had heard her speak, and now approached in alarm. She
laid hold of my arm, and drew me towards the door. I yielded at once, but heard a moan from
the bed as I went. I looked back--the curtains hid her from my view. Outside the door, Mrs.
Blakesley stood listening for a moment, and then led the way downstairs.

"You made her restless. You see, sir, she never was like other people, poor dear!"

"Her face is not like one insane," I rejoined.

"I often think she looks more like herself when she's asleep," answered she. "And then I have
often seen her smile. She never smiles when she's awake. But, gracious me, Mr. Campbell! what
shall I do?"

This exclamation was caused by my suddenly falling back in my chair and closing my eyes. I
had almost fainted. I had eaten nothing since breakfast; and had been wandering about in a
state of excitement all day. I greedily swallowed the glass of wine she brought me, and then
first became aware that the storm which I had seen gathering while I was in the woods had now
broken loose. "What a night in the old hall!" thought I. The wind was dashing itself like a
thousand eagles against the house, and the rain was trampling the roofs and the court like
troops of galloping steeds. I rose to go.

But Mrs. Blakesley interfered.

"You don't leave this house to-night, Mr. Campbell," she said. "I won't have your death laid
at my door."

I laughed.

"Dear Mrs. Blakesley,--" I said, seeing her determined.

"I won't hear a word," she interrupted. "I wouldn't let a horse out in such a tempest. No,
no; you shall just sleep in your old quarters, across the passage there."

I did not care for any storm. It hardly even interested me. That beautiful face filled my whole
being. But I yielded to Mrs. Blakesley, and not unwillingly.

CHAPTER XXIII

My Old Room.

Once more I was left alone in that room of dark oak, looking out on the little ivy-mantled
court, of which I was now reminded by the howling of the storm within its high walls. Mrs.
Blakesley had extemporised a bed for me on the old sofa; and the fire was already blazing away
splendidly. I sat down beside it, and the sombre-hued Past rolled back upon me.

After I had floated, as it were, upon the waves of memory for some time, I suddenly glanced
behind me and around the room, and a new and strange experience dawned upon me. Time became
to my consciousness what some metaphysicians say it is in itself--only a form of human thought.
For the Past had returned and had become the Present. I could not be sure that the Past had
passed, that I had not been dreaming through the whole series of years and adventures, upon
which I was able to look back. For here was the room, all as before; and here was I, the same
man, with the same love glowing in my heart. I went on thinking. The storm went on howling.
The logs went on cheerily burning. I rose and walked about the room, looking at everything
as I had looked at it on the night of my first arrival. I said to myself, "How strange that
I should feel as if all this had happened to me before!" And then I said, "Perhaps it has happened
to me before." Again I said, "And when it did happen before, I felt as if it had happened before
that; and perhaps it has been happening to me at intervals for ages." I opened the door of
the closet, and looked at the door behind it, which led into the hall of the old house. It
was bolted. But the bolt slipped back at my touch; twelve years were nothing in the history
of its rust; or was it only yesterday I had forced the iron free from the adhesion of the rust-welded
surfaces? I stood for a moment hesitating whether to open the door, and have one peep into
the wide hall, full of intent echoes, listening breathless for one air of sound, that they
might catch it up jubilant and dash it into the ears of--Silence--their ancient enemy--their
Death. But I drew back, leaving the door unopened; and, sitting down again by my fire, sank
into a kind of unconscious weariness. Perhaps I slept--I do not know; but as I became once
more aware of myself, I awoke, as it were, in the midst of an old long-buried night. I was
sitting in my own room, waiting for Lady Alice. And, as I sat waiting, and wishing she would
come, by slow degrees my wishes intensified themselves, till I found myself, with all my gathered
might, willing that she should come. The minutes passed, but the will remained.

How shall I tell what followed? The door of the closet opened--slowly, gently--and in walked
Lady Alice, pale as death, her eyes closed, her whole person asleep. With a gliding motion
as in a dream, where the volition that produces motion is unfelt, she seemed to me to dream
herself across the floor to my couch, on which she laid herself down as gracefully, as simply,
as in the old beautiful time. Her appearance did not startle me, for my whole condition was
in harmony with the phenomenon. I rose noiselessly, covered her lightly from head to foot,
and sat down, as of old to watch. How beautiful she was! I thought she had grown taller; but,
perhaps, it was only that she had gained in form without losing anything in grace. Her face
was, as it had always been, colourless; but neither it nor her figure showed any signs of suffering.
The holy sleep had fed her physical as well as shielded her mental nature. But what would the
waking be? Not all the power of the revived past could shut out the anticipation of the dreadful
difference to be disclosed, the moment she should open those sleeping eyes. To what a frightfully
farther distance was that soul now removed, whose return I had been wont to watch, as from
the depths of the unknown world! That was strange; this was terrible. Instead of the dawn of
rosy intelligence I had now to look for the fading of the loveliness as she woke, till her
face withered into the bewildered and indigent expression of the insane.

She was waking. My love with the unknown face was at hand. The reviving flush came, grew, deepened.
She opened her eyes. God be praised! They were lovelier than ever. And the smile that broke
over her face was the very sunlight of the soul.

"Come again, you see!" she said gently, as she stretched her beautiful arms towards me.

I could not speak. I could only submit to her embrace, and hold myself with all my might, lest
I should burst into helpless weeping. But a sob or two broke their prison, and she felt the
emotion she had not seen. Relaxing her hold, she pushed me gently from her, and looked at me
with concern that grew as she looked.

"You are dreadfully changed, my Duncan! What is the matter? Has Lord Hilton been rude to you?
You look so much older, somehow. What can it be?"

I understood at once how it was. The whole of those dreary twelve years was gone. The thread
of her consciousness had been cut, those years dropped out, and the ends reunited. She thought
this was one of her old visits to me, when, as now, she had walked in her sleep. I answered,

"I will tell you all another time. I don't want to waste the moments with you, my Alice, in
speaking about it. Lord Hilton has behaved very badly to me; but never mind."

She half rose in anger; and her eyes looked insane for the first time.

"How dares he?" she said, and then checked herself with a sigh at her own helplessness.

"But it will all come right, Alice," I went on in terror lest I should disturb her present
conception of her circumstances. I felt as if the very face I wore, with the changes of those
twelve forgotten years, which had passed over her like the breath of a spring wind, were a
mask of which I had to be ashamed before her. Her consciousness was my involuntary standard
of fact. Hope of my life as she was, there was thus mingled with my delight in her presence
a restless fear that made me wish fervently that she would go. I wanted time to quiet my thoughts
and resolve how I should behave to her.

"Alice," I said, "it is nearly morning. You were late to-night. Don't you think you had better
go--for fear, you know?"

"Ah!" she said, with a smile, in which there was no doubt of fear, "you are tired of me already!
But I will go at once to dream about you."

She rose.

"Go, my darling," I said; "and mind you get some right sleep. Shall I go with you?"

Much to my relief, she answered,

"No, no; please not. I can go alone as usual. When a ghost meets me, I just walk through him,
and then he's nowhere; and I laugh."

One kiss, one backward lingering look, and the door closed behind her. I heard the echo of
the great hall. I was alone. But what a loneliness--a loneliness crowded with presence! I paced
up and down the room, threw myself on the couch she had left, started up, and paced again.
It was long before I could think. But the conviction grew upon me that she would be mine yet.
Mine yet? Mine she was, beyond all the power of madness or demons; and mine I trusted she would
be beyond the dispute of the world. About me, at least, she was not insane. But what should
I do? The only chance of her recovery lay in seeing me still; but I could resolve on nothing
till I knew whether Mrs. Blakesley had discovered her absence from her room; because, if I
drew her, and she were watched and prevented from coming, it would kill her, or worse. I must
take to-morrow to think.

Yet at the moment, by a sudden impulse, I opened the window gently, stepped into the little
grassy court, where the last of the storm was still moaning, and withdrew the bolts of a door
which led into an alley of trees running along one side of the kitchen-garden. I felt like
a housebreaker; but I said, "It is her right." I pushed the bolts forward again, so as just
to touch the sockets and look as if they went in, and then retreated into my own room, where
I paced about till the household was astir.

CHAPTER XXIV

Prison-Breaking.

It was with considerable anxiety that I repaired to Mrs. Blakesley's room. There I found the
old lady at the breakfast-table, so thoroughly composed, that I was at once reassured as to
her ignorance of what had occurred while she slept. But she seemed uneasy till I should take
my departure, which I attributed to the fear that I might happen to meet Lady Alice.

Arrived at my inn, I kept my room, my dim-seen plans rendering it desirable that I should attract
as little attention in the neighbourhood as might be. I had now to concentrate these plans,
and make them definite to myself. It was clear that there was no chance of spending another
night at Hilton Hall by invitation: would it be honourable to go there without one, as I, knowing
all the outs and ins of the place, could, if I pleased? I went over the whole question of Alice's
position in that house, and of the crime committed against her. I saw that, if I could win
my wife by restoring to her the exercise of reason, that very success would justify the right
I already possessed in her. And could she not demand of me to climb over any walls, or break
open whatsoever doors, to free her from her prison--from the darkness of a clouded brain? Let
them say what they would of the meanness and wickedness of gaining such access to, and using
such power over, the insane--she was mine, and as safe with me as with her mother. There is
a love that tears and destroys; and there is a love that enfolds and saves. I hated mesmerism
and its vulgar impertinences; but here was a power I possessed, as far as I knew, only over
one, and that one allied to me by a reciprocal influence, as well as long-tried affection.--Did
not love give me the right to employ this power?

My cognitions concluded in the resolve to use the means in my hands for the rescue of Lady
Alice. Midnight found me in the alley of the kitchen-garden. The door of the little court opened
easily. Nor had I withdrawn its bolts without knowing that I could manage to open the window
of my old room from the outside. I stood in the dark, a stranger and housebreaker, where so
often I had sat waiting the visits of my angel. I secured the door of the room, struck a light,
lighted a remnant of taper which I found on the table, threw myself on the couch, and said
to my Alice--"Come."

And she came. I rose. She laid herself down. I pulled off my coat--it was all I could find--and
laid it over her. The night was chilly. She revived with the same sweet smile, but, giving
a little shiver, said:

"Why have you no fire, Duncan? I must give orders about it. That's some trick of old Clankshoe."

"Dear Alice, do not breath a word about me to any one. I have quarrelled with Lord Hilton.
He has turned me away, and I have no business to be in the house."

"Oh!" she replied, with a kind of faint recollecting hesitation. "That must be why you never
come to the haunted chamber now. I go there every night, as soon as the sun is down."

"Yes, that is it, Alice."

"Ah! that must be what makes the day so strange to me too."

She looked very bewildered for a moment, and then resumed:

"Do you know, Duncan, I feel very strange all day--as if I was walking about in a dull dream
that would never come to an end? But it is very different at night--is it not, dear?"

She had not yet discovered any distinction between my presence to her dreams and my presence
to her waking sight. I hardly knew what reply to make; but she went on:

"They won't let me come to you now, I suppose. I shall forget my Euclid and everything. I feel
as if I had forgotten it all already. But you won't be vexed with your poor Alice, will you?
She's only a beggar-girl, you know."

I could answer only by a caress.

"I had a strange dream the other night. I thought I was sitting on a stone in the dark. And
I heard your voice calling me. And it went all round about me, and came nearer, and went farther
off, but I could not move to go to you. I tried to answer you, but I could only make a queer
sound, not like my own voice at all."

"I dreamed it too, Alice."

"The same dream?"

"Yes, the very same."

"I am so glad. But I didn't like the dream. Duncan, my head feels so strange sometimes. And
I am so sleepy. Duncan, dearest--am I dreaming now? Oh! tell me that I am awake and that I
hold you; for to-morrow, when I wake, I shall fancy that I have lost you. They've spoiled my
poor brain, somehow. I am all right, I know, but I cannot get at it. The red is withered, somehow."

"You are wide awake, my Alice. I know all about it. I will help you to understand it all, only
you must do exactly as I tell you."

"Yes, yes."

"Then go to bed now, and sleep as much as you can; else I will not let you come to me at night."

"That would be too cruel, when it is all I have."

"Then go, dearest, and sleep."

"I will."

She rose and went. I, too, went, making all close behind me. The moon was going down. Her light
looked to me strange, and almost malignant. I feared that when she came to the full she would
hurt my darling's brain, and I longed to climb the sky, and cut her in pieces. Was I too going
mad? I needed rest, that was all.

Next morning, I called again upon Mrs. Blakesley, to inquire after Lady Alice, anxious to know
how yesterday had passed.

"Just the same," answered the old lady. "You need not look for any change. Yesterday I did
see her smile once, though."

And was that nothing?

In her case there was a reversal of the usual facts of nature--(I say facts, not laws): the
dreams of most people are more or less insane; those of Lady Alice were sound; thus, with her,
restoring the balance of sane life. That smile was the sign of the dream-life beginning to
leaven the waking and false life.

"Have you heard of young Lord Hilton's marriage?" asked Mrs. Blakesley.

"I have only heard some rumours about it," I answered. "Who is the new countess?"

"The daughter of a rich merchant somewhere. They say she isn't the best of tempers. They're
coming here in about a month. I am just terrified to think how it may fare with my lamb now.
They won't let her go wandering about wherever she pleases, I doubt. And if they shut her up,
she will die."

I vowed inwardly that she should be free, if I carried her off, madness and all.

CHAPTER XXV

New Entrenchments.

But this way of breaking into the house every night did not afford me the facility I wished.
For I wanted to see Lady Alice during the day, or at least in the evening before she went to
sleep; as otherwise I could not thoroughly judge of her condition. So I got Wood to pack up
a small stock of provisions for me in his haversack, which I took with me; and when I entered
the house that night, I bolted the door of the court behind me, and made all fast.

I waited till the usual time for her appearance had passed; and, always apprehensive now, as
was very natural, I had begun to grow uneasy, when I heard her voice, as I had heard it once
before, singing. Fearful of disturbing her, I listened for a moment. Whether the song was her
own or not, I cannot be certain. When I questioned her afterwards, she knew nothing about it.
It was this,--

      Days of old,
  Ye are not dead, though gone from me;
        Ye are not cold,
  But like the summer-birds gone o'er the sea.
  The sun brings back the swallows fast,
        O'er the sea:
  When thou comest at the last,
  The days of old come back to me.

She ceased singing. Still she did not enter. I went into the closet, and found that the door
was bolted. When I opened it, she entered, as usual; and, when she came to herself, seemed
still better than before.

"Duncan," she said, "I don't know how it is, but I believe I must have forgotten everything
I ever knew. I feel as if I had. I don't think I can even read. Will you teach me my letters?"

She had a book in her hand. I hailed this as another sign that her waking and sleeping thoughts
bordered on each other; for she must have taken the book during her somnambulic condition.
I did as she desired. She seemed to know nothing till I told her. But the moment I told her
anything, she knew it perfectly. Before she left me that night she was reading tolerably, with
many pauses of laughter that she should ever have forgotten how. The moment she shared the
light of my mind, all was plain; where that had not shone, all was dark. The fact was, she
was living still in the shadow of that shock which her nervous constitution had received from
our discovery and my ejection.

As she was leaving me, I said,

"Shall you be in the haunted room at sunset tomorrow, Alice?"

"Of course I shall," she answered.

"You will find me there then," I rejoined--"that is, if you think there is no danger of being
seen."

"Not the least," she answered. "No one follows me there; not even Mrs. Blakesley, good soul!
They are all afraid, as usual."

"And you won't be frightened to see me there?"

"Frightened? No. Why? Oh! you think me queer too, do you?"

She looked vexed, but tried to smile.

"I? I would trust you with my life," I said. "That's not much, though--with my soul, whatever
that means, Alice."

"Then don't talk nonsense," she rejoined coaxingly, "about my being frightened to see you."

When she had gone, I followed into the old hall, taking my sack with me; for, after having
found the door in the closet bolted, I was determined not to spend one night more in my old
quarters, and never to allow Lady Alice to go there again, if I could prevent her. And I had
good hopes that, if we met in the day, the same consequences would follow as had followed long
ago--namely, that she would sleep at night.

It was just such a night as that on which I had first peeped into the hall. The moon shone
through one of the high windows, scarcely more dim than before, and showed all the dreariness
of the place. I went up the great old staircase, hoping I trod in the very footsteps of Lady
Alice, and reached the old gallery in which I had found her on that night when our strangely-knit
intimacy began. My object was to choose one of the deserted rooms in which I might establish
myself without chance of discovery. I had not turned many corners, or gone through many passages,
before I found one exactly to my mind. I will not trouble my reader with a description of its
odd position and shape. All I wanted was concealment, and that it provided plentifully. I lay
down on the floor, and was soon fast asleep.

Next morning, having breakfasted from the contents of my bag, I proceeded to make myself thoroughly
acquainted with the bearings, etc., of this portion of the house. Before evening, I knew it
all thoroughly.

But I found it very difficult to wait for the evening. By the windows of one of the rooms looking
westward, I sat watching the down-going of the sun. When he set, my moon would rise. As he
touched the horizon, I went the old, well-known way to the haunted chamber. What a night had
passed for me since I left Alice in that charmed room! I had a vague feeling, however, notwithstanding
the misfortune that had befallen us there, that the old phantoms that haunted it were friendly
to Alice and me. But I waited her arrival in fear. Would she come? Would she be as in the night?
Or should I find her but half awake to life, and perhaps asleep to me?

One moment longer, and a light hand was laid on the door. It opened gently, and Alice, entering,
flitted across the room straight to my arms. How beautiful she was! her old-fashioned dress
bringing her into harmony with the room and its old consecrated twilight! For this room looked
eastward, and there was only twilight here. She brought me some water, at my request; and then
we read, and laughed over our reading. Every moment she not only knew something fresh, but
knew that she had known it before. The dust of the years had to be swept away; but it was only
dust, and flew at a breath. The light soon failed us in that dusky chamber; and we sat and
whispered, till only when we kissed could we see each other's eyes. At length Lady Alice said:

"They are looking for me; I had better go. Shall I come at night?"

"No," I answered. "Sleep, and do not move."

"Very well, I will."

She went, and I returned to my den. There I lay and thought. Had she ever been insane at all?
I doubted it. A kind of mental sleep or stupor had come upon her--nothing more. True it might
be allied to madness; but is there a strong emotion that man or woman experiences that is not
allied to madness? Still her mind was not clear enough to reflect the past. But if she never
recalled that entirely, not the less were her love and tenderness--all womanliness--entire in her.

Next evening we met again, and the next, and many evenings. Every time I was more convinced
than before that she was thoroughly sane in every practical sense, and that she would recall
everything as soon as I reminded her. But this I forbore to do, fearing a reaction.

Meantime, after a marvellous fashion, I was living over again the old lovely time that had
gone by twelve years ago; living it over again, partly in virtue of the oblivion that had invaded
the companion and source of the blessedness of the time. She had never ceased to live it; but
had renewed it in dreams, unknown as such, from which she awoke to forgetfulness and quiet,
while I awoke from my troubled fancies to tears and battles.

It was strange, indeed, to live the past over again thus.

CHAPTER XXVI

Escape.

It was time, however, to lay some plan, and make some preparations, for our departure. The
first thing to be secured was a convenient exit from the house. I searched in all directions,
but could discover none better than that by which I had entered. Leaving the house one evening,
as soon as Lady Alice had retired, I communicated my situation to Wood, who entered with all
his heart into my projects. Most fortunately, through all her so-called madness, Lady Alice
had retained and cherished the feeling that there was something sacred about the diamond-ring
and the little money which had been intended for our flight before; and she had kept them carefully
concealed, where she could find them in a moment. I had sent the ring to a friend in London,
to sell it for me; and it produced more than I expected. I had then commissioned Wood to go
to the county town and buy a light gig for me; and in this he had been very fortunate. My dear
old Constancy had the accomplishment, not at all common to chargers, of going admirably in
harness; and I had from the first enjoined upon Wood to get him into as good condition as possible.
I now fixed a certain hour at which Wood was to be at a certain spot on one of the roads skirting
the park, where I had found a crazy door in the plank-fence--with Constancy in the dogcart,
and plenty of wraps for Alice.

"And for Heaven's sake, Wood," I concluded, "look to his shoes."

It may seem strange that I should have been able to go and come thus without detection; but
it must be remembered that I had made myself more familiar with the place than any of its inhabitants,
and that there were only a very few domestics in the establishment. The gardener and stableman
slept in the house, for its protection; but I knew their windows perfectly, and most of their
movements. I could watch them all day long, if I liked, from some loophole or other of my quarter;
where, indeed, I sometimes found that the only occupation I could think of.

The next evening I said, "Alice, I must leave the house: will you go with me?"

"Of course I will, Duncan. When?"

"The night after to-morrow, as soon as every one is in bed and the house quiet. If you have
anything you value very much, take it; but the lighter we go the better."

"I have nothing, Duncan. I will take a little bag--that will do for me."

"But dress as warmly as you can. It will be cold."

"Oh, yes; I won't forget that. Good night." 

Filelfo starts to make a speech at a wedding using the words 'Aristotle,
the wandering philosopher.' Others began with P. Cornelius Scipio,
so as to shorten the waiting time before the speech began.

Due to the Florentine influence in the latter stages of the fifteenth century public taste made a
sudden and marked improvement and the practice of using quotations all the time was limited. Many
reference books were now available to the ordinary man so that he could find out as much as
he wanted to.

Most of the speeches were written before they were given and used for publicity afterwards.
The great orators who did not read from a script used shorthand writers
to take down their speeches.

Many speeches which have been handed down were only meant as rehearsals and not for actual deliverance.
As an example the formal public speech of the elder Beroaldus on Lodovico il Moro was given
to him in manuscript. Many speeches and letters were written just for imaginary important people
merely for practice.

With the death of Leo X (1521) and the sack of Rome (1527) the decline of oratory and other arts
began. Giovani, who had just escaped the desolation of Rome, gave his account, accurately but
not without bias, as to what had caused the decline. The plays of Plautus and Terence are gotten
rid off to make way for Italian comedies. Orators found no compensation
for what they once did.

Higher church officials only write the first few lines of their sermons
and the remainder is a jumble of words often spoken inaudibly as the
words come to them.

Should an important funeral speech be needed it is no longer the best speech makers who are
given the job but a person of learning who is willing to did the job for much less in the hope that
he gets recognition for his work. After all the dead person does not have a clue about what is
said at his funeral speech or who wrote it. Monks from all orders now deliver the sermons and
preach them to any one who will listen. Alice was dressed, ready for flight.
To me, it was very pathetic to see her in the shapes of years gone by. She looked faded and
ancient, notwithstanding that this was the dress in which I had seen her so often of old. Her
stream had been standing still, while mine had flowed on. She was a portrait of my own young
Alice, a picture of her own former self.

One or two lights glancing about below detained us for a little while. We were standing near
the window, feeling now very anxious to be clear of the house; Alice was holding me and leaning
on me with the essence of trust; when, all at once, she dropped my arm, covered her face with
her hands, and called out: "The horse with the clanking shoe!" At the same moment, the heavy
door which communicated with this part of the house flew open with a crash, and footsteps came
hurrying along the passage. A light gleamed into the room, and by it I saw that Lady Alice,
who was standing close to me still, was gazing, with flashing eyes, at the door. She whispered
hurriedly:

"I remember it all now, Duncan. My brain is all right. It is come again. But they shall not
part us this time. You follow me for once."

As she spoke, I saw something glitter in her hand. She had caught up an old Malay creese that
lay in a corner, and was now making for the door, at which half a dozen domestics were by this
time gathered. They, too, saw the glitter, and made way. I followed close, ready to fell the
first who offered to lay hands on her. But she walked through them unmenaced, and, once clear,
sped like a bird into the recesses of the old house. One fellow started to follow. I tripped
him up. I was collared by another. The same instant he lay by his companion, and I followed
Alice. She knew the route well enough, and I overtook her in the great hall. We heard pursuing
feet rattling down the echoing stair. To enter my room and bolt the door behind us was a moment's
work; and a few moments more took us into the alley of the kitchen-garden. With speedy, noiseless
steps, we made our way to the park, and across it to the door in the fence, where Wood was
waiting for us, old Constancy pawing the ground with impatience for a good run.

He had had enough of it before twelve hours were over.

Was I not well recompensed for my long years of despair? The cold stars were sparkling overhead;
a wind blew keen against us--the wind of our own flight; Constancy stepped out with a will;
and I urged him on, for he bore my beloved and me into the future life. Close beside me she
sat, wrapped warm from the cold, rejoicing in her deliverance, and now and then looking up
with tear-bright eyes into my face. Once and again I felt her sob, but I knew it was a sob
of joy, and not of grief. The spell was broken at last, and she was mine. I felt that not all
the spectres of the universe could tear her from me, though now and then a slight shudder would
creep through me, when the clank of Constancy's bit would echo sharply back from the trees
we swept past.

We rested no more than was absolutely necessary; and in as short a space as ever horse could
perform the journey, we reached the Scotch border, and before many more hours had gone over
us, Alice was my wife.

CHAPTER XXVII

Freedom.

Honest Wood joined us in the course of a week or two, and has continued in my service ever
since. Nor was it long before Mrs. Blakesley was likewise added to our household, for she had
been instantly dismissed from the countess's service on the charge of complicity in Lady Alice's
abduction.

We lived for some months in a cottage on a hill-side, overlooking one of the loveliest of the
Scotch lakes. Here I was once more tutor to my Alice. And a quick scholar she was, as ever.
Nor, I trust, was I slow in my part. Her character became yet clearer to me, every day. I understood
her better and better.

She could endure marvellously; but without love and its joy she could not live, in any real
sense. In uncongenial society, her whole mental faculty had frozen; when love came, her mental
world, like a garden in the spring sunshine, blossomed and budded. When she lost me, the Present
vanished, or went by her like an ocean that has no milestones; she caring only for the Past,
living only in the Past, and that reflection of it in the dim glass of her hope, which prefigured
the Future.

We have never again heard the clanking shoe. Indeed, after we had passed a few months in the
absorption of each other's society, we began to find that we doubted a great deal of what seemed
to have happened to us. It was as if the gates of the unseen world were closing against us,
because we had shut ourselves up in the world of the present. But we let it go gladly. We felt
that love was the gate to an unseen world infinitely beyond that region of the psychological
in which we had hitherto moved; for this love was teaching us to love all men, and live for
all men. In fact, we are now, I am glad to say, very much like other people; and wonder, sometimes,
how much of the story of our lives might be accounted for on the supposition that unusual coincidences
had fallen in with psychological peculiarities. Dr. Ruthwell, who is sometimes our most welcome
guest, has occasionally hinted at the sabre-cut as the key to all the mysteries of the story,
seeing nothing of it was at least recorded before I came under his charge. But I have only
to remind him of one or two circumstances, to elicit from his honesty and immediate confession
of bewilderment, followed by silence; although he evidently still clings to the notion that
in that sabre-cut lies the solution of much of the marvel. At all events, he considers me sane
enough now, else he would hardly honour me with so much of his confidence as he does. Having
examined into Lady Alice's affairs, I claimed the fortune which she had inherited. Lord Hilton,
my former pupil, at once acknowledged the justice of the claim, and was considerably astonished
to find how much more might have been demanded of him, which had been spent over the allowance
made from her income for her maintenance. But we had enough without claiming that.

My wife purchased for me the possession of my forefathers, and there we live in peace and hope.
To her I owe the delight which I feel every day of my life in looking upon the haunts of my
childhood as still mine. They help me to keep young. And so does my Alice's hair; for although
much grey now mingles with mine, hers is as dark as ever. For her heart, I know that cannot
grow old; and while the heart is young, man may laugh old Time in the face, and dare him to
do his worst.

THE CRUEL PAINTER

Among the young men assembled at the University of Prague, in the year 159--, was one called
Karl von Wolkenlicht. A somewhat careless student, he yet held a fair position in the estimation
of both professors and men, because he could hardly look at a proposition without understanding
it. Where such proposition, however, had to do with anything relating to the deeper insights
of the nature, he was quite content that, for him, it should remain a proposition; which, however,
he laid up in one of his mental cabinets, and was ready to reproduce at a moment's notice.
This mental agility was more than matched by the corresponding corporeal excellence, and both
aided in producing results in which his remarkable strength was equally apparent. In all games
depending upon the combination of muscle and skill, he had scarce rivalry enough to keep him
in practice. His strength, however, was embodied in such a softness of muscular outline, such
a rare Greek-like style of beauty, and associated with such a gentleness of manner and behaviour,
that, partly from the truth of the resemblance, partly from the absurdity of the contrast,
he was known throughout the university by the diminutive of the feminine form of his name,
and was always called Lottchen.

"I say, Lottchen," said one of his fellow-students, called Richter, across the table in a wine-cellar
they were in the habit of frequenting, "do you know, Heinrich Hoellenrachen here says that
he saw this morning, with mortal eyes, whom do you think?--Lilith."

"Adam's first wife?" asked Lottchen, with an attempt at carelessness, while his face flushed
like a maiden's.

"None of your chaff!" said Richter. "Your face is honester than your tongue, and confesses
what you cannot deny, that you would give your chance of salvation--a small one to be sure,
but all you've got--for one peep at Lilith. Wouldn't you now, Lottchen?"

"Go to the devil!" was all Lottchen's answer to his tormentor; but he turned to Heinrich, to
whom the students had given the surname above mentioned, because of the enormous width of his
jaws, and said with eagerness and envy, disguising them as well as he could, under the appearance
of curiosity--

"You don't mean it, Heinrich? You've been taking the beggar in! Confess now."

"Not I. I saw her with my two eyes."

"Notwithstanding the different planes of their orbits," suggested Richter.

"Yes, notwithstanding the fact that I can get a parallax to any of the fixed stars in a moment,
with only the breadth of my nose for the base," answered Heinrich, responding at once to the
fun, and careless of the personal defect insinuated. "She was near enough for even me to see
her perfectly."

"When? Where? How?" asked Lottchen.

"Two hours ago. In the churchyard of St. Stephen's. By a lucky chance. Any more little questions,
my child?" answered Hoellenrachen.

"What could have taken her there, who is seen nowhere?" said Richter.

"She was seated on a grave. After she left, I went to the place; but it was a new-made grave.
There was no stone up. I asked the sexton about her. He said he supposed she was the daughter
of the woman buried there last Thursday week. I knew it was Lilith."

"Her mother dead!" said Lottchen, musingly. Then he thought with himself--"She will be going
there again, then!" But he took care that this ghost-thought should wander unembodied. "But
how did you know her, Heinrich? You never saw her before."

"How do you come to be over head and ears in love with her, Lottchen, and you haven't seen
her at all?" interposed Richter.

"Will you or will you not go to the devil?" rejoined Lottchen, with a comic crescendo; to which
the other replied with a laugh.

"No one could miss knowing her," said Heinrich.

"Is she so very like, then?"

"It is always herself, her very self."

A fresh flask of wine, turning out to be not up to the mark, brought the current of conversation
against itself; not much to the dissatisfaction of Lottchen, who had already resolved to be
in the churchyard of St. Stephen's at sun-down the following day, in the hope that he too might
be favoured with a vision of Lilith.

This resolution he carried out. Seated in a porch of the church, not knowing in what direction
to look for the apparition he hoped to see, and desirous as well of not seeming to be on the
watch for one, he was gazing at the fallen rose-leaves of the sunset, withering away upon the
sky; when, glancing aside by an involuntary movement, he saw a woman seated upon a new-made
grave, not many yards from where he sat, with her face buried in her hands, and apparently
weeping bitterly. Karl was in the shadow of the porch, and could see her perfectly, without
much danger of being discovered by her; so he sat and watched her. She raised her head for
a moment, and the rose-flush of the west fell over it, shining on the tears with which it was
wet, and giving the whole a bloom which did not belong to it, for it was always pale, and now
pale as death. It was indeed the face of Lilith, the most celebrated beauty of Prague.

Again she buried her face in her hands; and Karl sat with a strange feeling of helplessness,
which grew as he sat; and the longing to help her whom he could not help, drew his heart towards
her with a trembling reverence which was quite new to him. She wept on. The western roses withered
slowly away, and the clouds blended with the sky, and the stars gathered like drops of glory
sinking through the vault of night, and the trees about the churchyard grew black, and Lilith
almost vanished in the wide darkness. At length she lifted her head, and seeing the night around
her, gave a little broken cry of dismay. The minutes had swept over her head, not through her
mind, and she did not know that the dark had come.

Hearing her cry, Karl rose and approached her. She heard his footsteps, and started to her
feet. Karl spoke--

"Do not be frightened," he said. "Let me see you home. I will walk behind you."

"Who are you?" she rejoined.

"Karl Wolkenlicht."

"I have heard of you. Thank you. I can go home alone."

Yet, as if in a half-dreamy, half-unconscious mood, she accepted his offered hand to lead her
through the graves, and allowed him to walk beside her, till, reaching the corner of a narrow
street, she suddenly bade him good-night and vanished. He thought it better not to follow her,
so he returned her good-night and went home.

How to see her again was his first thought the next day; as, in fact, how to see her at all
had been his first thought for many days. She went nowhere that ever he heard of; she knew
nobody that he knew; she was never seen at church, or at market; never seen in the street.
Her home had a dreary, desolate aspect. It looked as if no one ever went out or in. It was
like a place on which decay had fallen because there was no indwelling spirit. The mud of years
was baked upon its door, and no faces looked out of its dusty windows.

How then could she be the most celebrated beauty of Prague? How then was it that Heinrich Hoellenrachen
knew her the moment he saw her? Above all, how was it that Karl Wolkenlicht had, in fact, fallen
in love with her before ever he saw her? It was thus--

Her father was a painter. Belonging thus to the public, it had taken the liberty of re-naming
him. Every one called him Teufelsbuerst, or Devilsbrush. It was a name with which, to judge
from the nature of his representations, he could hardly fail to be pleased. For, not as a nightmare
dream, which may alternate with the loveliest visions, but as his ordinary everyday work, he
delighted to represent human suffering.

Not an aspect of human woe or torture, as expressed in countenance or limb, came before his
willing imagination, but he bore it straightway to his easel. In the moments that precede sleep,
when the black space before the eyes of the poet teems with lovely faces, or dawns into a spirit-landscape,
face after face of suffering, in all varieties of expression, would crowd, as if compelled
by the accompanying fiends, to present themselves, in awful levee, before the inner eye of
the expectant master. Then he would rise, light his lamp, and, with rapid hand, make notes
of his visions; recording, with swift successive sweeps of his pencil, every individual face
which had rejoiced his evil fancy. Then he would return to his couch, and, well satisfied,
fall asleep to dream yet further embodiments of human ill.

What wrong could man or mankind have done him, to be thus fearfully pursued by the vengeance
of the artist's hate?

Another characteristic of the faces and form which he drew was, that they were all beautiful
in the original idea. The lines of each face, however distorted by pain, would have been, in
rest, absolutely beautiful; and the whole of the execution bore witness to the fact that upon
this original beauty the painter had directed the artillery of anguish to bring down the sky-soaring
heights of its divinity to the level of a hated existence. To do this, he worked in perfect
accordance with artistic law, falsifying no line of the original forms. It was the suffering,
rather than his pencil, that wrought the change. The latter was the willing instrument to record
what the imagination conceived with a cruelty composed enough to be correct.

To enhance the beauty he had thus distorted, and so to enhance yet further the suffering that
produced the distortion, he would often represent attendant demons, whom he made as ugly as
his imagination could compass; avoiding, however, all grotesqueness beyond what was sufficient
to indicate that they were demons, and not men. Their ugliness rose from hate, envy, and all
evil passions; amongst which he especially delighted to represent a gloating exultation over
human distress. And often in the midst of his clouds of demon faces, would some one who knew
him recognise the painter's own likeness, such as the mirror might have presented it to him
when he was busiest over the incarnation of some exquisite torture.

But apparently with the wish to avoid being supposed to choose such representations for their
own sakes, he always found a story, often in the histories of the church, whose name he gave
to the painting, and which he pretended to have inspired the pictorial conception. No one,
however, who looked upon his suffering martyrs, could suppose for a moment that he honoured
their martyrdom. They were but the vehicles for his hate of humanity. He was the torturer,
and not Diocletian or Nero.

But, stranger yet to tell, there was no picture, whatever its subject, into which he did not
introduce one form of placid and harmonious loveliness. In this, however, his fierceness was
only more fully displayed. For in no case did this form manifest any relation either to the
actors or the endurers in the picture. Hence its very loveliness became almost hateful to those
who beheld it. Not a shade crossed the still sky of that brow, not a ripple disturbed the still
sea of that cheek. She did not hate, she did not love the sufferers: the painter would not
have her hate, for that would be to the injury of her loveliness: would not have her love,
for he hated. Sometimes she floated above, as a still, unobservant angel, her gaze turned upward,
dreaming along, careless as a white summer cloud, across the blue. If she looked down on the
scene below, it was only that the beholder might see that she saw and did not care--that not
a feather of her outspread pinions would quiver at the sight. Sometimes she would stand in
the crowd, as if she had been copied there from another picture, and had nothing to do with
this one, nor any right to be in it at all. Or when the red blood was trickling drop by drop
from the crushed limb, she might be seen standing nearest, smiling over a primrose or the bloom
on a peach. Some had said that she was the painter's wife; that she had been false to him;
that he had killed her; and, finding that that was no sufficing revenge, thus half in love,
and half in deepest hate, immortalised his vengeance. But it was now universally understood
that it was his daughter, of whose loveliness extravagant reports went abroad; though all said,
doubtless reading this from her father's pictures, that she was a beauty without a heart. Strange
theories of something else supplying its place were rife among the anatomical students. With
the girl in the pictures, the wild imagination of Lottchen, probably in part from her apparently
absolute unattainableness and her undisputed heartlessness, had fallen in love, as far as the
mere imagination can fall in love.

But again, how was he to see her? He haunted the house night after night. Those blue eyes never
met his. No step responsive to his came from that door. It seemed to have been so long unopened
that it had grown as fixed and hard as the stones that held its bolts in their passive clasp.
He dared not watch in the daytime, and with all his watching at night, he never saw father
or daughter or domestic cross the threshold. Little he thought that, from a shot-window near
the door, a pair of blue eyes, like Lilith's, but paler and colder, were watching him just
as a spider watches the fly that is likely ere long to fall into his toils. And into those
toils Karl soon fell. For her form darkened the page; her form stood on the threshold of sleep;
and when, overcome with watching, he did enter its precincts, her form entered with him, and
walked by his side. He must find her; or the world might go to the bottomless pit for him. But how?

Yes. He would be a painter. Teufelsbuerst would receive him as a humble apprentice. He would
grind his colours, and Teufelsbuerst would teach him the mysteries of the science which is
the handmaiden of art. Then he might see her, and that was all his ambition.

In the clear morning light of a day in autumn, when the leaves were beginning to fall seared
from the hand of that Death which has his dance in the chapels of nature as well as in the
cathedral aisles of men--he walked up and knocked at the dingy door. The spider painter opened
it himself. He was a little man, meagre and pallid, with those faded blue eyes, a low nose
in three distinct divisions, and thin, curveless, cruel lips. He wore no hair on his face;
but long grey locks, long as a woman's, were scattered over his shoulders, and hung down on
his breast. When Wolkenlicht had explained his errand, he smiled a smile in which hypocrisy
could not hide the cunning, and, after many difficulties, consented to receive him as a pupil,
on condition that he would become an inmate of his house. Wolkenlicht's heart bounded with
delight, which he tried to hide: the second smile of Teufelsbuerst might have shown him that
he had ill succeeded. The fact that he was not a native of Prague, but coming from a distant
part of the country, was entirely his own master in the city, rendered this condition perfectly
easy to fulfil; and that very afternoon he entered the studio of Teufelsbuerst as his scholar
and servant.

It was a great room, filled with the appliances and results of art. Many pictures, festooned
with cobwebs, were hung carelessly on the dirty walls. Others, half finished, leaned against
them, on the floor. Several, in different stages of progress, stood upon easels. But all spoke
the cruel bent of the artist's genius. In one corner a lay figure was extended on a couch,
covered with a pall of black velvet. Through its folds, the form beneath was easily discernible;
and one hand and forearm protruded from beneath it, at right angles to the rest of the frame.
Lottchen could not help shuddering when he saw it. Although he overcame the feeling in a moment,
he felt a great repugnance to seating himself with his back towards it, as the arrangement
of an easel, at which Teufelsbuerst wished him to draw, rendered necessary. He contrived to
edge himself round, so that when he lifted his eyes he should see the figure, and be sure that
it could not rise without his being aware of it. But his master saw and understood his altered
position; and under some pretence about the light, compelled him to resume the position in
which he had placed him at first; after which he sat watching, over the top of his picture,
the expression of his countenance as he tried to draw; reading in it the horrid fancy that
the figure under the pall had risen, and was stealthily approaching to look over his shoulder.
But Lottchen resisted the feeling, and, being already no contemptible draughtsman, was soon
interested enough to forget it. And then, any moment she might enter.

Now began a system of slow torture, for the chance of which the painter had been long on the
watch--especially since he had first seen Karl lingering about the house. His opportunities
of seeing physical suffering were nearly enough even for the diseased necessities of his art;
but now he had one in his power, on whom, his own will fettering him, he could try any experiments
he pleased for the production of a kind of suffering, in the observation of which he did not
consider that he had yet sufficient experience. He would hold the very heart of the youth in
his hand, and wring it and torture it to his own content. And lest Karl should be strong enough
to prevent those expressions of pain for which he lay on the watch, he would make use of further
means, known to himself, and known to few besides.

All that day Karl saw nothing of Lilith; but he heard her voice once--and that was enough for
one day. The next, she was sitting to her father the greater part of the day, and he could
see her as often as he dared glance up from his drawing. She had looked at him when she entered,
but had shown no sign of recognition; and all day long she took no further notice of him. He
hoped, at first, that this came of the intelligence of love; but he soon began to doubt it.
For he saw that, with the holy shadow of sorrow, all that distinguished the expression of her
countenance from that which the painter so constantly reproduced, had vanished likewise. It
was the very face of the unheeding angel whom, as often as he lifted his eyes higher than hers,
he saw on the wall above her, playing on a psaltery in the smoke of the torment ascending for
ever from burning Babylon.--The power of the painter had not merely wrought for the representation
of the woman of his imagination; it had had scope as well in realising her.

Karl soon began to see that communication, other than of the eyes, was all but hopeless; and
to any attempt in that way she seemed altogether indisposed to respond. Nor if she had wished
it, would it have been safe; for as often as he glanced towards her, instead of hers, he met
the blue eyes of the painter gleaming upon him like winter lightning. His tones, his gestures,
his words, seemed kind: his glance and his smile refused to be disguised.

The first day he dined alone in the studio, waited upon by an old woman; the next he was admitted
to the family table, with Teufelsbuerst and Lilith. The room offered a strange contrast to
the study. As far as handicraft, directed by a sumptuous taste, could construct a house-paradise,
this was one. But it seemed rather a paradise of demons; for the walls were covered with Teufelsbuerst's
paintings. During the dinner, Lilith's gaze scarcely met that of Wolkenlicht; and once or twice,
when their eyes did meet, her glance was so perfectly unconcerned, that Karl wished he might
look at her for ever without the fear of her looking at him again. She seemed like one whose
love had rushed out glowing with seraphic fire, to be frozen to death in a more than wintry
cold: she now walked lonely without her love. In the evenings, he was expected to continue
his drawing by lamplight; and at night he was conducted by Teufelsbuerst to his chamber. Not
once did he allow him to proceed thither alone, and not once did he leave him there without
locking and bolting the door on the outside. But he felt nothing except the coldness of Lilith.

Day after day she sat to her father, in every variety of costume that could best show the variety
of her beauty. How much greater that beauty might be, if it ever blossomed into a beauty of
soul, Wolkenlicht never imagined; for he soon loved her enough to attribute to her all the
possibilities of her face as actual possessions of her being. To account for everything that
seemed to contradict this perfection, his brain was prolific in inventions; till he was compelled
at last to see that she was in the condition of a rose-bud, which, on the point of blossoming,
had been chilled into a changeless bud by the cold of an untimely frost. For one day, after
the father and daughter had become a little more accustomed to his silent presence, a conversation
began between them, which went on until he saw that Teufelsbuerst believed in nothing except
his art. How much of his feeling for that could be dignified by the name of belief, seeing
its objects were such as they were, might have been questioned. It seemed to Wolkenlicht to
amount only to this: that, amidst a thousand distastes, it was a pleasant thing to reproduce
on the canvas the forms he beheld around him, modifying them to express the prevailing feelings
of his own mind.

A more desolate communication between souls than that which then passed between father and
daughter could hardly be imagined. The father spoke of humanity and all its experiences in
a tone of the bitterest scorn. He despised men, and himself amongst them; and rejoiced to think
that the generations rose and vanished, brood after brood, as the crops of corn grew and disappeared.
Lilith, who listened to it all unmoved, taking only an intellectual interest in the question,
remarked that even the corn had more life than that; for, after its death, it rose again in
the new crop. Whether she meant that the corn was therefore superior to man, forgetting that
the superior can produce being without losing its own, or only advanced an objection to her
father's argument, Wolkenlicht could not tell. But Teufelsbuerst laughed like the sound of
a saw, and said: "Follow out the analogy, my Lilith, and you will see that man is like the
corn that springs again after it is buried; but unfortunately the only result we know of is
a vampire."

Wolkenlicht looked up, and saw a shudder pass through the frame, and over the pale thin face
of the painter. This he could not account for. But Teufelsbuerst could have explained it, for
there were strange whispers abroad, and they had reached his ear; and his philosophy was not
quite enough for them. But the laugh with which Lilith met this frightful attempt at wit, grated
dreadfully on Wolkenlicht's feeling. With her, too, however, a reaction seemed to follow. For,
turning round a moment after, and looking at the picture on which her father was working, the
tears rose in her eyes, and she said: "Oh! father, how like my mother you have made me this
time!" "Child!" retorted the painter with a cold fierceness, "you have no mother. That which
is gone out is gone out. Put no name in my hearing on that which is not. Where no substance
is, how can there be a name?"

Lilith rose and left the room. Wolkenlicht now understood that Lilith was a frozen bud, and
could not blossom into a rose. But pure love lives by faith. It loves the vaguely beheld and
unrealised ideal. It dares believe that the loved is not all that she ever seemed. It is in
virtue of this that love loves on. And it was in virtue of this, that Wolkenlicht loved Lilith
yet more after he discovered what a grave of misery her unbelief was digging for her within
her own soul. For her sake he would bear anything--bear even with calmness the torments of
his own love; he would stay on, hoping and hoping.--The text, that we know not what a day may
bring forth, is just as true of good things as of evil things; and out of Time's womb the facts
must come.

But with the birth of this resolution to endure, his suffering abated; his face grew more calm;
his love, no less earnest, was less imperious; and he did not look up so often from his work
when Lilith was present. The master could see that his pupil was more at ease, and that he
was making rapid progress in his art. This did not suit his designs, and he would betake himself
to his further schemes.

For this purpose he proceeded first to simulate a friendship for Wolkenlicht, the manifestations
of which he gradually increased, until, after a day or two, he asked him to drink wine with
him in the evening. Karl readily agreed. The painter produced some of his best; but took care
not to allow Lilith to taste it; for he had cunningly prepared and mingled with it a decoction
of certain herbs and other ingredients, exercising specific actions upon the brain, and tending
to the inordinate excitement of those portions of it which are principally under the rule of
the imagination. By the reaction of the brain during the operation of these stimulants, the
imagination is filled with suggestions and images. The nature of these is determined by the
prevailing mood of the time. They are such as the imagination would produce of itself, but
increased in number and intensity. Teufelsbuerst, without philosophising about it, called his
preparation simply a love-philtre, a concoction well known by name, but the composition of
which was the secret of only a few. Wolkenlicht had, of course, not the least suspicion of
the treatment to which he was subjected.

Teufelsbuerst was, however, doomed to fresh disappointment. Not that his potion failed in the
anticipated effect, for now Karl's real sufferings began; but that such was the strength of
Karl's will, and his fear of doing anything that might give a pretext for banishing him from
the presence of Lilith, that he was able to conceal his feelings far too successfully for the
satisfaction of Teufelsbuerst's art. Yet he had to fetter himself with all the restraints that
self-exhortation could load him with, to refrain from falling at the feet of Lilith and kissing
the hem of her garment. For that, as the lowliest part of all that surrounded her, itself kissing
the earth, seemed to come nearest within the reach of his ambition, and therefore to draw him
the most.

No doubt the painter had experience and penetration enough to perceive that he was suffering
intensely; but he wanted to see the suffering embodied in outward signs, bringing it within
the region over which his pencil held sway. He kept on, therefore, trying one thing after another,
and rousing the poor youth to agony; till to his other sufferings were added, at length, those
of failing health; a fact which notified itself evidently enough even for Teufelsbuerst, though
its signs were not of the sort he chiefly desired. But Karl endured all bravely.

Meantime, for various reasons, he scarcely ever left the house.

I must now interrupt the course of my story to introduce another element.

A few years before the period of my tale, a certain shoemaker of the city had died under circumstances
more than suggestive of suicide. He was buried, however, with such precautions, that six weeks
elapsed before the rumour of the facts broke out; upon which rumour, not before, the most fearful
reports began to be circulated, supported by what seemed to the people of Prague incontestable
evidence.--A spectrum of the deceased appeared to multitudes of persons, playing horrible pranks,
and occasioning indescribable consternation throughout the whole town. This went on till at
last, about eight months after his burial, the magistrates caused his body to be dug up; when
it was found in just the condition of the bodies of those who in the eastern countries of Europe
are called vampires. They buried the corpse under the gallows; but neither the digging up nor
the reburying were of avail to banish the spectre. Again the spade and pick-axe were set to
work, and the dead man being found considerably improved in condition since his last interment,
was, with various horrible indignities, burnt to ashes, "after which the spectrum was never
seen more."

And a second epidemic of the same nature had broken out a little before the period to which
I have brought my story.

About midnight, after a calm frosty day, for it was now winter, a terrible storm of wind and
snow came on. The tempest howled frightfully about the house of the painter, and Wolkenlicht
found some solace in listening to the uproar, for his troubled thoughts would not allow him
to sleep. It raged on all the next three days, till about noon on the fourth day, when it suddenly
fell, and all was calm. The following night, Wolkenlicht, lying awake, heard unaccountable
noises in the next house, as of things thrown about, of kicking and fighting horses, and of
opening and shutting gates. Flinging wide his lattice and looking out, the noise of howling
dogs came to him from every quarter of the town. The moon was bright and the air was still.
In a little while he heard the sounds of a horse going at full gallop round the house, so that
it shook as if it would fall; and flashes of light shone into his room. How much of this may
have been owing to the effect of the drugs on poor Lottchen's brain, I leave my readers to
determine. But when the family met at breakfast in the morning, Teufelsbuerst, who had been
already out of doors, reported that he had found the marks of strange feet in the snow, all
about the house and through the garden at the back; stating, as his belief, that the tracks
must be continued over the roofs, for there was no passage otherwise. There was a wicked gleam
in his eye as he spoke; and Lilith believed that he was only trying an experiment on Karl's
nerves. He persisted that he had never seen any footprints of the sort before. Karl informed
him of his experiences during the night; upon which Teufelsbuerst looked a little graver still,
and proceeded to tell them that the storm, whose snow was still covering the ground, had arisen
the very moment that their next door neighbour died, and had ceased as suddenly the moment
he was buried, though it had raved furiously all the time of the funeral, so that "it made
men's bodies quake and their teeth chatter in their heads." Karl had heard that the man, whose
name was John Kuntz, was dead and buried. He knew that he had been a very wealthy, and therefore
most respectable, alderman of the town; that he had been very fond of horses; and that he had
died in consequence of a kick received from one of his own, as he was looking at his hoof.
But he had not heard that, just before he died, a black cat "opened the casement with her nails,
ran to his bed, and violently scratched his face and the bolster, as if she endeavoured by
force to remove him out of the place where he lay. But the cat afterwards was suddenly gone,
and she was no sooner gone, but he breathed his last."

So said Teufelsbuerst, as the reporter of the town talk. Lilith looked very pale and terrified;
and it was perhaps owing to this that the painter brought no more tales home with him. There
were plenty to bring, but he heard them all and said nothing. The fact was that the philosopher
himself could not resist the infection of the fear that was literally raging in the city; and
perhaps the reports that he himself had sold himself to the devil had sufficient response from
his own evil conscience to add to the influence of the epidemic upon him. The whole place was
infested with the presence of the dead Kuntz, till scarce a man or woman would dare to be alone.
He strangled old men; insulted women; squeezed children to death; knocked out the brains of
dogs against the ground; pulled up posts; turned milk into blood; nearly killed a worthy clergyman
by breathing upon him the intolerable airs of the grave, cold and malignant and noisome; and,
in short, filled the city with a perfect madness of fear, so that every report was believed
without the smallest doubt or investigation.

Though Teufelsbuerst brought home no more of the town talk, the old servant was a faithful
purveyor, and frequented the news-mart assiduously. Indeed she had some nightmare experiences
of her own that she was proud to add to the stock of horrors which the city enjoyed with such
a hearty community of goods. For those regions were not far removed from the birthplace and
home of the vampire. The belief in vampires is the quintessential concentration and embodiment
of all the passion of fear in Hungary and the adjacent regions. Nor, of all the other inventions
of the human imagination, has there ever been one so perfect in crawling terror as this. Lilith
and Karl were quite familiar with the popular ideas on the subject. It did not require to be
explained to them, that a vampire was a body retaining a kind of animal life after the soul
had departed. If any relation existed between it and the vanished ghost, it was only sufficient
to make it restless in its grave. Possessed of vitality enough to keep it uncorrupted and pliant,
its only instinct was a blind hunger for the sole food which could keep its awful life persistent--living
human blood. Hence it, or, if not it, a sort of semi-material exhalation or essence of it,
retaining its form and material relations, crept from its tomb, and went roaming about till
it found some one asleep, towards whom it had an attraction, founded on old affection. It sucked
the blood of this unhappy being, transferring so much of its life to itself as a vampire could
assimilate. Death was the certain consequence. If suspicion conjectured aright, and they opened
the proper grave, the body of the vampire would be found perfectly fresh and plump, sometimes
indeed of rather florid complexion;--with grown hair, eyes half open, and the stains of recent
blood about its greedy, leech-like lips. Nothing remained but to consume the corpse to ashes,
upon which the vampire would show itself no more. But what added infinitely to the horror was
the certainty that whoever died from the mouth of the vampire, wrinkled grandsire or delicate
maiden, must in turn rise from the grave, and go forth a vampire, to suck the blood of the
dearest left behind. This was the generation of the vampire brood. Lilith trembled at the very
name of the creature. Karl was too much in love to be afraid of anything. Yet the evident fear
of the unbelieving painter took a hold of his imagination; and, under the influence of the
potions of which he still partook unwittingly, when he was not thinking about Lilith, he was
thinking about the vampire.

Meantime, the condition of things in the painter's household continued much the same for Wolkenlicht--work
all day; no communication between the young people; the dinner and the wine; silent reading
when work was done, with stolen glances many over the top of the book, glances that were never
returned; the cold good-night; the locking of the door; the wakeful night and the drowsy morning.
But at length a change came, and sooner than any of the party had expected. For, whether it
was that the impatience of Teufelsbuerst had urged him to yet more dangerous experiments, or
that the continuance of those he had been so long employing had overcome at length the vitality
of Wolkenlicht--one afternoon, as he was sitting at his work, he suddenly dropped from his
chair, and his master hurrying to him in some alarm, found him rigid and apparently lifeless.
Lilith was not in the study when this took place. In justice to Teufelsbuerst, it must be confessed
that he employed all the skill he was master of, which for beneficent purposes was not very
great, to restore the youth; but without avail. At last, hearing the footsteps of Lilith, he
desisted in some consternation; and that she might escape being shocked by the sight of a dead
body where she had been accustomed to see a living one, he removed the lay figure from the
couch, and laid Karl in its place, covering him with a black velvet pall. He was just in time.
She started at seeing no one in Karl's place and said--

"Where is your pupil, father?"

"Gone home," he answered, with a kind of convulsive grin.

She glanced round the room, caught sight of the lay figure where it had not been before, looked
at the couch, and saw the pall yet heaved up from beneath, opened her eyes till the entire
white sweep around the iris suggested a new expression of consternation to Teufelsbuerst, though
from a quarter whence he did not desire or look for it; and then, without a word, sat down
to a drawing she had been busy upon the day before. But her father, glancing at her now, as
Wolkenlicht had used to do, could not help seeing that she was frightfully pale. She showed
no other sign of uneasiness. As soon as he released her, she withdrew, with one more glance,
as she passed, at the couch and the figure blocked out in black upon it. She hastened to her
chamber, shut and locked the door, sat down on the side of the couch, and fell, not a-weeping,
but a-thinking. Was he dead? What did it matter? They would all be dead soon. Her mother was
dead already. It was only that the earth could not bear more children, except she devoured
those to whom she had already given birth. But what if they had to come back in another form,
and live another sad, hopeless, love-less life over again?--And so she went on questioning,
and receiving no replies; while through all her thoughts passed and repassed the eyes of Wolkenlicht,
which she had often felt to be upon her when she did not see them, wild with repressed longing,
the light of their love shining through the veil of diffused tears, ever gathering and never
overflowing. Then came the pale face, so worshipping, so distant in its self-withdrawn devotion,
slowly dawning out of the vapours of her reverie. When it vanished, she tried to see it again.
It would not come when she called it; but when her thoughts left knocking at the door of the
lost, and wandered away, out came the pale, troubled, silent face again, gathering itself up
from some unknown nook in her world of phantasy, and once more, when she tried to steady it
by the fixedness of her own regard, fading back into the mist. So the phantasm of the dead
drew near and wooed, as the living had never dared.--What if there were any good in loving?
What if men and women did not die all out, but some dim shade of each, like that pale, mind-ghost
of Wolkenlicht, floated through the eternal vapours of chaos? And what if they might sometimes
cross each other's path, meet, know that they met, love on? Would not that revive the withered
memory, fix the fleeting ghost, give a new habitation, a body even, to the poor, unhoused wanderers,
frozen by the eternal frosts, no longer thinking beings, but thoughts wandering through the
brain of the "Melancholy Mass?" Back with the thought came the face of the dead Karl, and the
maiden threw herself on her bed in a flood of bitter tears. She could have loved him if he
had only lived: she did love him, for he was dead. But even in the midst of the remorse that
followed--for had she not killed him?--life seemed a less hard and hopeless thing than before.
For it is love itself and not its responses or results that is the soul of life and its pleasures.

Two hours passed ere she could again show herself to her father, from whom she seemed in some
new way divided by the new feeling in which he did not, and could not share. But at last, lest
he should seek her, and finding her, should suspect her thoughts, she descended and sought
him.--For there is a maidenliness in sorrow, that wraps her garments close around her.--But
he was not to be seen; the door of the study was locked. A shudder passed through her as she
thought of what her father, who lost no opportunity of furthering his all but perfect acquaintance
with the human form and structure, might be about with the figure which she knew lay dead beneath
that velvet pall, but which had arisen to haunt the hollow caves and cells of her living brain.
She rushed away, and up once more to her silent room, through the darkness which had now settled
down in the house; threw herself again on her bed, and lay almost paralysed with horror and
distress.

But Teufelsbuerst was not about anything so frightful as she supposed, though something frightful
enough. I have already implied that Wolkenlicht was, in form, as fine an embodiment of youthful
manhood as any old Greek republic could have provided one of its sculptors with as model for
an Apollo. It is true, that to the eye of a Greek artist he would not have been more acceptable
in consequence of the regimen he had been going through for the last few weeks; but the emaciation
of Wolkenlicht's frame, and the consequent prominence of the muscles, indicating the pain he
had gone through, were peculiarly attractive to Teufelsbuerst.--He was busy preparing to take
a cast of the body of his dead pupil, that it might aid to the perfection of his future labours.

He was deep in the artistic enjoyment of a form, at the same time so beautiful and strong,
yet with the lines of suffering in every limb and feature, when his daughter's hand was laid
on the latch. He started, flung the velvet drapery over the body, and went to the door. But
Lilith had vanished. He returned to his labours. The operation took a long time, for he performed
it very carefully. Towards midnight, he had finished encasing the body in a close-clinging
shell of plaster, which, when broken off, and fitted together, would be the matrix to the form
of the dead Wolkenlicht. Before leaving it to harden till the morning, he was just proceeding
to strengthen it with an additional layer all over, when a flash of lightning, reflected in
all its dazzle from the snow without, almost blinded him. A peal of long-drawn thunder followed;
the wind rose; and just such a storm came on as had risen some time before at the death of
Kuntz, whose spectre was still tormenting the city. The gnomes of terror, deep hidden in the
caverns of Teufelsbuerst's nature, broke out jubilant. With trembling hands he tried to cast
the pall over the awful white chrysalis,--failed, and fled to his chamber. And there lay the
studio naked to the eyes of the lightning, with its tortured forms throbbing out of the dark,
and quivering, as with life, in the almost continuous palpitations of the light; while on the
couch lay the motionless mass of whiteness, gleaming blue in the lightning, almost more terrible
in its crude indications of the human form, than that which it enclosed. It lay there as if
dropped from some tree of chaos, haggard with the snows of eternity--a huge mis-shapen nut,
with a corpse for its kernel.

But the lightning would soon have revealed a more terrible sight still, had there been any
eyes to behold it. At midnight, while a peal of thunder was just dying away in the distance,
the crust of death flew asunder, rending in all directions; and, pale as his investiture, staring
with ghastly eyes, the form of Karl started up sitting on the couch. Had he not been far beyond
ordinary men in strength, he could not thus have rent his sepulchre. Indeed, had Teufelsbuerst
been able to finish his task by the additional layer of gypsum which he contemplated, he must
have died the moment life revived; although, so long as the trance lasted, neither the exclusion
from the air, nor the practical solidification of the walls of his chest, could do him any
injury. He had lain unconscious throughout the operations of Teufelsbuerst, but now the catalepsy
had passed away, possibly under the influence of the electric condition of the atmosphere.
Very likely the strength he now put forth was intensified by a convulsive reaction of all the
powers of life, as is not infrequently the case in sudden awakenings from similar interruptions
of vital activity. The coming to himself and the bursting of his case were simultaneous. He
sat staring about him, with, of all his mental faculties, only his imagination awake, from
which the thoughts that occupied it when he fell senseless had not yet faded. These thoughts
had been compounded of feelings about Lilith, and speculations about the vampire that haunted
the neighbourhood; and the fumes of the last drug of which he had partaken, still hovering
in his brain, combined with these thoughts and fancies to generate the delusion that he had
just broken from the embrace of his coffin, and risen, the last-born of the vampire race. The
sense of unavoidable obligation to fulfil his doom, was yet mingled with a faint flutter of
joy, for he knew that he must go to Lilith. With a deep sigh, he rose, gathered up the pall
of black velvet, flung it around him, stepped from the couch, and left the study to find her.

Meantime, Teufelsbuerst had sufficiently recovered to remember that he had left the door of
the studio unfastened, and that any one entering would discover in what he had been engaged,
which, in the case of his getting into any difficulty about the death of Karl, would tell powerfully
against him. He was at the farther end of a long passage, leading from the house to the studio,
on his way to make all secure, when Karl appeared at the door, and advanced towards him. The
painter, seized with invincible terror, turned and fled. He reached his room, and fell senseless
on the floor. The phantom held on its way, heedless.

Lilith, on gaining her room the second time, had thrown herself on her bed as before, and had
wept herself into a troubled slumber. She lay dreaming--and dreadful dreams. Suddenly she awoke
in one of those peals of thunder which tormented the high regions of the air, as a storm billows
the surface of the ocean. She lay awake and listened. As it died away, she thought she heard,
mingling with its last muffled murmurs, the sound of moaning. She turned her face towards the
room in keen terror. But she saw nothing. Another light, long-drawn sigh reached her ear, and
at the same moment a flash of lightning illumined the room. In the corner farthest from her
bed, she spied a white face, nothing more. She was dumb and motionless with fear. Utter darkness
followed, a darkness that seemed to enter into her very brain. Yet she felt that the face was
slowly crossing the black gulf of the room, and drawing near to where she lay. The next flash
revealed, as it bended over her, the ghastly face of Karl, down which flowed fresh tears. The
rest of his form was lost in blackness. Lilith did not faint, but it was the very force of
her fear that seemed to keep her alive. It became for the moment the atmosphere of her life.
She lay trembling and staring at the spot in the darkness where she supposed the face of Karl
still to be. But the next flash showed her the face far off, looking at her through the panes
of her lattice-window.

For Lottchen, as soon as he saw Lilith, seemed to himself to go through a second stage of awaking.
Her face made him doubt whether he could be a vampire after all; for instead of wanting to
bite her arm and suck the blood, he all but fell down at her feet in a passion of speechless
love. The next moment he became aware that his presence must be at least very undesirable to
her; and in an instant he had reached her window, which he knew looked upon a lower roof that
extended between two different parts of the house, and before the next flash came, he had stepped
through the lattice and closed it behind him.

Believing his own room to be attainable from this quarter, he proceeded along the roof in the
direction he judged best. The cold winter air by degrees restored him entirely to his right
mind, and he soon comprehended the whole of the circumstances in which he found himself. Peeping
through a window he was passing, to see whether it belonged to his room, he spied Teufelsbuerst,
who, at the very moment, was lifting his head from the faint into which he had fallen at the
first sight of Lottchen. The moon was shining clear, and in its light the painter saw, to his
horror, the pale face staring in at his window. He thought it had been there ever since he
had fainted, and dropped again in a deeper swoon than before. Karl saw him fall, and the truth
flashed upon him that the wicked artist took him for what he had believed himself to be when
first he recovered from his trance--namely, the vampire of the former Karl Wolkenlicht. The
moment he comprehended it, he resolved to keep up the delusion if possible. Meantime he was
innocently preparing a new ingredient for the popular dish of horrors to be served at the ordinary
of the city the next day. For the old servant's were not the only eyes that had seen him besides
those of Teufelsbuerst. What could be more like a vampire, dragging his pall after him, than
this apparition of poor, half-frozen Lottchen, crawling across the roof? Karl remembered afterwards
that he had heard the dogs howling awfully in every direction, as he crept along; but this
was hardly necessary to make those who saw him conclude that it was the same phantasm of John
Kuntz, which had been infesting the whole city, and especially the house next door to the painter's,
which had been the dwelling of the respectable alderman who had degenerated into this most
disreputable of moneyless vagabonds. What added to the consternation of all who heard of it,
was the sickening conviction that the extreme measures which they had resorted to in order
to free the city from the ghoul, beyond which nothing could be done, had been utterly unavailing,
successful as they had proved in every other known case of the kind. For, urged as well by
various horrid signs about his grave, which not even its close proximity to the altar could
render a place of repose, they had opened it, had found in the body every peculiarity belonging
to a vampire, had pulled it out with the greatest difficulty on account of a quite supernatural
ponderosity; which rendered the horse which had killed him--a strong animal--all but unable
to drag it along, and had at last, after cutting it in pieces, and expending on the fire two
hundred and sixteen great billets, succeeded in conquering its incombustibleness, and reducing
it to ashes. Such, at least, was the story which had reached the painter's household, and was
believed by many; and if all this did not compel the perturbed corpse to rest, what more could
be done?

When Karl had reached his room, and was dressing himself, the thought struck him that something
might be made of the report of the extreme weight of the body of old Kuntz, to favour the continuance
of the delusion of Teufelsbuerst, although he hardly knew yet to what use he could turn this
delusion. He was convinced that he would have made no progress however long he might have remained
in his house; and that he would have more chance of favour with Lilith if he were to meet her
in any other circumstances whatever than those in which he invariably saw her--namely, surrounded
by her father's influences, and watched by her father's cold blue eyes.

As soon as he was dressed, he crept down to the studio, which was now quiet enough, the storm
being over, and the moon filling it with her steady shine. In the corner lay in all directions
the fragments of the mould which his own body had formed and filled. The bag of plaster and
the bucket of water which the painter had been using stood beside. Lottchen gathered all the
pieces together, and then making his way to an outhouse where he had seen various odds and
ends of rubbish lying, chose from the heap as many pieces of old iron and other metal as he
could find. To these he added a few large stones from the garden. When he had got all into
the studio, he locked the door, and proceeded to fit together the parts of the mould, filling
up the hollow as he went on with the heaviest things he could get into it, and solidifying
the whole by pouring in plaster; till, having at length completed it, and obliterated, as much
as possible, the marks of joining, he left it to harden, with the conviction that now it would
make a considerable impression on Teufelsbuerst's imagination, as well as on his muscular sense.
He then left everything else as nearly undisturbed as he could; and, knowing all the ways of
the house, was soon in the street, without leaving any signs of his exit.

Karl soon found himself before the house in which his friend Hoellenrachen resided. Knowing
his studious habits, he had hoped to see his light still burning, nor was he disappointed.
He contrived to bring him to his window, and a moment after, the door was cautiously opened.

"Why, Lottchen, where do you come from?"

"From the grave, Heinrich, or next door to it."

"Come in, and tell me all about it. We thought the old painter had made a model of you, and
tortured you to death."

"Perhaps you were not far wrong. But get me a horn of ale, for even a vampire is thirsty, you
know."

"A vampire!" exclaimed Heinrich, retreating a pace, and involuntarily putting himself upon
his guard.

Karl laughed.

"My hand was warm, was it not, old fellow?" he said. "Vampires are cold, all but the blood."

"What a fool I am!" rejoined Heinrich. "But you know we have been hearing such horrors lately
that a fellow may be excused for shuddering a little when a pale-faced apparition tells him
at two o'clock in the morning that he is a vampire, and thirsty, too."

Karl told him the whole story; and the mental process of regarding it for the sake of telling
it, revealed to him pretty clearly some of the treatment of which he had been unconscious at
the time. Heinrich was quite sure that his suspicions were correct. And now the question was,
what was to be done next?

"At all events," said Heinrich, "we must keep you out of the way for some time. I will represent
to my landlady that you are in hiding from enemies, and her heart will rule her tongue. She
can let you have a garret-room, I know; and I will do as well as I can to bear you company.
We shall have time then to invent some plan of operation."

To this proposal Karl agreed with hearty thanks, and soon all was arranged. The only conclusion
they could yet arrive at was, that somehow or other the old demon-painter must be tamed.

Meantime, how fared it with Lilith? She too had no doubt that she had seen the body-ghost of
poor Karl, and that the vampire had, according to rule, paid her the first visit because he
loved her best. This was horrible enough if the vampire were not really the person he represented;
but if in any sense it were Karl himself, at least it gave some expectation of a more prolonged
existence than her father had taught her to look for; and if love anything like her mother's
still lasted, even along with the habits of a vampire, there was something to hope for in the
future. And then, though he had visited her, he had not, as far as she was aware, deprived
her of a drop of blood. She could not be certain that he had not bitten her, for she had been
in such a strange condition of mind that she might not have felt it, but she believed that
he had restrained the impulses of his vampire nature, and had left her, lest he should yet
yield to them. She fell fast asleep; and, when morning came, there was not, as far as she could
judge, one of those triangular leech-like perforations to be found upon her whole body. Will
it be believed that the moment she was satisfied of this, she was seized by a terrible jealousy,
lest Karl should have gone and bitten some one else? Most people will wonder that she should
not have gone out of her senses at once; but there was all the difference between a visit from
a real vampire and a visit from a man she had begun to love, even although she took him for
a vampire. All the difference does not lie in a name. They were very different causes, and
the effects must be very different.

When Teufelsbuerst came down in the morning, he crept into the studio like a murderer. There
lay the awful white block, seeming to his eyes just the same as he had left it. What was to
be done with it? He dared not open it. Mould and model must go together. But whither? If inquiry
should be made after Wolkenlicht, and this were discovered anywhere on his premises, would
it not be enough to bring him at once to the gallows? Therefore it would be dangerous to bury
it in the garden, or in the cellar.

"Besides," thought he, with a shudder, "that would be to fix the vampire as a guest for ever."--And
the horrors of the past night rushed back upon his imagination with renewed intensity. What
would it be to have the dead Karl crawling about his house for ever, now inside, now out, now
sitting on the stairs, now staring in at the windows?

He would have dragged it to the bottom of his garden, past which the Moldau flowed, and plunged
it into the stream; but then, should the spectre continue to prove troublesome, it would be
almost impossible to reach the body so as to destroy it by fire; besides which, he could not
do it without assistance, and the probability of discovery. If, however, the apparition should
turn out to be no vampire, but only a respectable ghost, they might manage to endure its presence,
till it should be weary of haunting them.

He resolved at last to convey the body for the meantime into a concealed cellar in the house,
seeing something must be done before his daughter came down. Proceeding to remove it, his consternation
as greatly increased when he discovered how the body had grown in weight since he had thus
disposed of it, leaving on his mind scarcely a hope that it could turn out not to be a vampire
after all. He could scarcely stir it, and there was but one whom he could call to his assistance--the
old woman who acted as his housekeeper and servant.

He went to her room, roused her, and told her the whole story. Devoted to her master for many
years, and not quite so sensitive to fearful influences as when less experienced in horrors,
she showed immediate readiness to render him assistance. Utterly unable, however, to lift the
mass between them, they could only drag and push it along; and such a slow toil was it that
there was no time to remove the traces of its track, before Lilith came down and saw a broad
white line leading from the door of the studio down the cellarstairs. She knew in a moment
what it meant; but not a word was uttered about the matter, and the name of Karl Wolkenlicht
seemed to be entirely forgotten.

But how could the affairs of a house go on all the same when every one of the household knew
that a dead body lay in the cellar?--nay more, that, although it lay still and dead enough
all day, it would come half alive at nightfall, and, turning the whole house into a sepulchre
by its presence, go creeping about like a cat all over it in the dark--perhaps with phosphorescent
eyes? So it was not surprising that the painter abandoned his studio early, and that the three
found themselves together in the gorgeous room formerly described, as soon as twilight began
to fall.

Already Teufelsbuerst had begun to experience a kind of shrinking from the horrid faces in
his own pictures, and to feel disgusted at the abortions of his own mind. But all that he and
the old woman now felt was an increasing fear as the night drew on, a kind of sickening and
paralysing terror. The thing down there would not lie quiet--at least its phantom in the cellars
of their imagination would not. As much as possible, however, they avoided alarming Lilith,
who, knowing all they knew, was as silent as they. But her mind was in a strange state of excitement,
partly from the presence of a new sense of love, the pleasure of which all the atmosphere of
grief into which it grew could not totally quench. It comforted her somehow, as a child may
comfort when his father is away.

Bedtime came, and no one made a move to go. Without a word spoken on the subject, the three
remained together all night; the elders nodding and slumbering occasionally, and Lilith getting
some share of repose on a couch. All night the shape of death might be somewhere about the
house; but it did not disturb them. They heard no sound, saw no sight; and when the morning
dawned, they separated, chilled and stupid, and for the time beyond fear, to seek repose in
their private chambers. There they remained equally undisturbed.

But when the painter approached his easel a few hours after, looking more pale and haggard
still than he was wont, from the fears of the night, a new bewilderment took possession of
him. He had been busy with a fresh embodiment of his favourite subject, into which he had sketched
the form of the student as the sufferer. He had represented poor Wolkenlicht as just beginning
to recover from a trance, while a group of surgeons, unaware of the signs of returning life,
were absorbed in a minute dissection of one of the limbs. At an open door he had painted Lilith
passing, with her face buried in a bunch of sweet peas. But when he came to the picture, he
found, to his astonishment and terror, that the face of one of the group was now turned towards
that of the victim, regarding his revival with demoniac satisfaction, and taking pains to prevent
the others from discovering it. The face of this prince of torturers was that of Teufelsbuerst
himself. Lilith had altogether vanished, and in her place stood the dim vampire reiteration
of the body that lay extended on the table, staring greedily at the assembled company. With
trembling hands the painter removed the picture from the easel, and turned its face to the wall.

Of course this was the work of Lottchen. When he left the house, he took with him the key of
a small private door, which was so seldom used that, while it remained closed, the key would
not be missed, perhaps for many months. Watching the windows, he had chosen a safe time to
enter, and had been hard at work all night on these alterations. Teufelsbuerst attributed them
to the vampire, and left the picture as he found it, not daring to put brush to it again.

The next night was passed much after the same fashion. But the fear had begun to die away a
little in the hearts of the women, who did not know what had taken place in the studio on the
previous night. It burrowed, however, with gathered force in the vitals of Teufelsbuerst. But
this night likewise passed in peace; and before it was over, the old woman had taken to speculating
in her own mind as to the best way of disposing of the body, seeing it was not at all likely
to be troublesome. But when the painter entered his studio in trepidation the next morning,
he found that the form of the lovely Lilith was painted out of every picture in the room. This
could not be concealed; and Lilith and the servant became aware that the studio was the portion
of the house in haunting which the vampire left the rest in peace.

Karl recounted all the tricks he had played to his friend Heinrich, who begged to be allowed
to bear him company the following night. To this Karl consented, thinking it would be considerably
more agreeable to have a companion. So they took a couple of bottles of wine and some provisions
with them, and before midnight found themselves snug in the studio. They sat very quiet for
some time, for they knew that if they were seen, two vampires would not be so terrible as one,
and might occasion discovery. But at length Heinrich could bear it no longer.

"I say, Lottchen, let's go and look; for your dead body. What has the old beggar done with it?"

"I think I know. Stop; let me peep out. All right! Come along."

With a lamp in his hand, he led the way to the cellars, and after searching about a little
they discovered it.

"It looks horrid enough," said Heinrich, "but think a drop or two of wine would brighten it
up a little."

So he took a bottle from his pocket, and after they had had a glass apiece, he dropped a third
in blots all over the plaster. Being red wine, it had the effect Hoellenrachen desired.

"When they visit it next, they will know that the vampire can find the food he prefers," said he.

In a corner close by the plaster, they found the clothes Karl had worn.

"Hillo!" said Heinrich, "we'll make something of this find."

So he carried them with him to the studio. There he got hold of the lay-figure.

"What are you about, Heinrich?"

"Going to make a scarecrow to keep the ravens off old Teufel's pictures," answered Heinrich,
as he went on dressing the lay-figure in Karl's clothes. He next seated the creature at an
easel with its back to the door, so that it should be the first thing the painter should see
when he entered. Karl meant to remove this before he went, for it was too comical to fall in
with the rest of his proceedings. But the two sat down to their supper, and by the time they
had finished the wine, they thought they should like to go to bed. So they got up and went
home, and Karl forgot the lay-figure, leaving it in busy motionlessness all night before the
easel. When Teufelsbuerst saw it, he turned and fled with a cry that brought his daughter to
his help. He rushed past her, able only to articulate:

"The vampire! The vampire! Painting!"

Far more courageous than he, because her conscience was more peaceful, Lilith passed on to
the studio. She too recoiled a step or two when she saw the figure; but with the sight of the
back of Karl, as she supposed it to be, came the longing to see the face that was on the other
side. So she crept round and round by the wall, as far off as she could. The figure remained
motionless. It was a strange kind of shock that she experienced when she saw the face, disgusting
from its inanity. The absurdity next struck her; and with the absurdity flashed into her mind
the conviction that this was not the doing of a vampire; for of all creatures under the moon,
he could not be expected to be a humorist. A wild hope sprang up in her mind that Karl was
not dead. Of this she soon resolved to make herself sure.

She closed the door of the studio; in the strength of her new hope undressed the figure, put
it in its place, concealed the garments--all the work of a few minutes; and then, finding her
father just recovering from the worst of his fear, told him there was nothing in the studio
but what ought to be there, and persuaded him to go and see. He not only saw no one, but found
that no further liberties had been taken with his pictures. Reassured, he soon persuaded himself
that the spectre in this case had been the offspring of his own terror-haunted brain. But he
had no spirit for painting now. He wandered about the house, himself haunting it like a restless
ghost.

When night came, Lilith retired to her own room. The waters of fear had begun to subside in
the house; but the painter and his old attendant did not yet follow her example.

As soon, however, as the house was quite still, Lilith glided noiselessly down the stairs,
went into the studio, where as yet there assuredly was no vampire, and concealed herself in
a corner.

As it would not do for an earnest student like Heinrich to be away from his work very often,
he had not asked to accompany Lottchen this time. And indeed Karl himself, a little anxious
about the result of the scarecrow, greatly preferred going alone.

While she was waiting for what might happen, the conviction grew upon Lilith, as she reviewed
all the past of the story, that these phenomena were the work of the real Karl, and of no vampire.
In a few moments she was still more sure of this. Behind the screen where she had taken refuge,
hung one of the pictures out of which her portrait had been painted the night before last.
She had taken a lamp with her into the studio, with the intention of extinguishing it the moment
she heard any sign of approach; but as the vampire lingered, she began to occupy herself with
examining the picture beside her. She had not looked at it long, before she wetted the tip
of her forefinger, and began to rub away at the obliteration. Her suspicions were instantly
confirmed: the substance employed was only a gummy wash over the paint. The delight she experienced
at the discovery threw her into a mischievous humour.

"I will see," she said to herself, "whether I cannot match Karl Wolkenlicht at this game."

In a closet in the room hung a number of costumes, which Lilith had at different times worn
for her father. Among them was a large white drapery, which she easily disposed as a shroud.
With the help of some chalk, she soon made herself ghastly enough, and then placing her lamp
on the floor behind the screen, and setting a chair over it, so that it should throw no light
in any direction, she waited once more for the vampire. Nor had she much longer to wait. She
soon heard a door move, the sound of which she hardly knew, and then the studio door opened.
Her heart beat dreadfully, not with fear lest it should be a vampire after all, but with hope
that it was Karl. To see him once more was too great joy. Would she not make up to him for
all her coldness! But would he care for her now? Perhaps he had been quite cured of his longing
for a hard heart like hers. She peeped. It was he sure enough, looking as handsome as ever.
He was holding his light to look at her last work, and the expression of his face, even in
regarding her handiwork, was enough to let her know that he loved her still. If she had not
seen this, she dared not have shown herself from her hiding-place. Taking the lamp in her hand,
she got upon the chair, and looked over the screen, letting the light shine from below upon
her face. She then made a slight noise to attract Karl's attention. He looked up, evidently
rather startled, and saw the face of Lilith in the air: He gave a stifled cry threw himself
on his knees with his arms stretched towards her, and moaned--

"I have killed her! I have killed her!"

Lilith descended, and approached him noiselessly. He did not move. She came close to him and said--

"Are you Karl Wolkenlicht?"

His lips moved, but no sound came.

"If you are a vampire, and I am a ghost," she said--but a low happy laugh alone concluded the
sentence.

Karl sprang to his feet. Lilith's laugh changed into a burst of sobbing and weeping, and in
another moment the ghost was in the arms of the vampire.

Lilith had no idea how far her father had wronged Karl, and though, from thinking over the
past, he had no doubt that the painter had drugged him, he did not wish to pain her by imparting
this conviction. But Lilith was afraid of a reaction of rage and hatred in her father after
the terror was removed; and Karl saw that he might thus be deprived of all further intercourse
with Lilith, and all chance of softening the old man's heart towards him; while Lilith would
not hear of forsaking him who had banished all the human race but herself. They managed at
length to agree upon a plan of operation.

The first thing they did was to go to the cellar where the plaster mass lay, Karl carrying
with him a great axe used for cleaving wood. Lilith shuddered when she saw it, stained as it
was with the wine Heinrich had spilt over it, and almost believed herself the midnight companion
of a vampire after all, visiting with him the terrible corpse in which he lived all day. But
Karl soon reassured her; and a few good blows of the axe revealed a very different core to
that which Teufelsbuerst supposed to be in it. Karl broke it into pieces, and with Lilith's
help, who insisted on carrying her share, the whole was soon at the bottom of the Moldau and
every trace of its ever having existed removed. Before morning, too, the form of Lilith had
dawned anew in every picture. There was no time to restore to its former condition the one
Karl had first altered; for in it the changes were all that they seemed; nor indeed was he
capable of restoring it in the master's style; but they put it quite out of the way, and hoped
that sufficient time might elapse before the painter thought of it again.

When they had done, and Lilith, for all his entreaties, would remain with him no longer, Karl
took his former clothes with him, and having spent the rest of the night in his old room, dressed
in them in the morning. When Teufelsbuerst entered his studio next day, there sat Karl, as
if nothing had happened, finishing the drawing on which he had been at work when the fit of
insensibility came upon him. The painter started, stared, rubbed his eyes, thought it was another
spectral illusion, and was on the point of yielding to his terror, when Karl rose, and approached
him with a smile. The healthy, sunshiny countenance of Karl, let him be ghost or goblin, could
not fail to produce somewhat of a tranquillising effect on Teufelsbuerst. He took his offered
hand mechanically, his countenance utterly vacant with idiotic bewilderment. Karl said--

"I was not well, and thought it better to pay a visit to a friend for a few days; but I shall
soon make up for lost time, for I am all right now."

He sat down at once, taking no notice of his master's behaviour, and went on with his drawing.
Teufelsbuerst stood staring at him for some minutes without moving, then suddenly turned and
left the room. Karl heard him hurrying down the cellar stairs. In a few moments he came up
again. Karl stole a glance at him. There he stood in the same spot, no doubt more full of bewilderment
than ever, but it was not possible that his face should express more. At last he went to his
easel, and sat down with a long-drawn sigh as if of relief. But though he sat at his easel,
he painted none that day; and as often as Karl ventured a glance, he saw him still staring
at him. The discovery that his pictures were restored to their former condition aided, no doubt,
in leading him to the same conclusion as the other facts, whatever that conclusion might be--probably
that he had been the sport of some evil power, and had been for the greater part of a week
utterly bewitched. Lilith had taken care to instruct the old woman, with whom she was all-powerful;
and as neither of them showed the smallest traces of the astonishment which seemed to be slowly
vitrifying his own brain, he was at last perfectly satisfied that things had been going on
all right everywhere but in his inner man; and in this conclusion he certainly was not far
wrong, in more senses than one. But when all was restored again to the old routine, it became
evident that the peculiar direction of his art in which he had hitherto indulged had ceased
to interest him. The shock had acted chiefly upon that part of his mental being which had been
so absorbed. He would sit for hours without doing anything, apparently plunged in meditation.--Several
weeks elapsed without any change, and both Lilith and Karl were getting dreadfully anxious
about him. Karl paid him every attention; and the old man, for he now looked much older than
before, submitted to receive his services as well as those of Lilith. At length, one morning,
he said in a slow thoughtful tone--

"Karl Wolkenlicht, I should like to paint you."

"Certainly, sir," answered Karl, jumping up, "where would you like me to sit?"

So the ice of silence and inactivity was broken, and the painter drew and painted; and the
spring of his art flowed once more; and he made a beautiful portrait of Karl--a portrait without
evil or suffering. And as soon as he had finished Karl, he began once more to paint Lilith;
and when he had painted her, he composed a picture for the very purpose of introducing them
together; and in this picture there was neither ugliness nor torture, but human feeling and
human hope instead. Then Karl knew that he might speak to him of Lilith; and he spoke, and
was heard with a smile. But he did not dare to tell him the truth of the vampire story till
one day that Teufelsbuerst was lying on the floor of a room in Karl's ancestral castle, half
smothered in grandchildren; when the only answer it drew from the old man was a kind of shuddering
laugh and the words "Don't speak of it, Karl, my boy!"

THE CASTLE

On the top of a high cliff, forming part of the base of a great mountain, stood a lofty castle.
When or how it was built, no man knew; nor could any one pretend to understand its architecture.
Every one who looked upon it felt that it was lordly and noble; and where one part seemed not
to agree with another, the wise and modest dared not to call them incongruous, but presumed
that the whole might be constructed on some higher principle of architecture than they yet
understood. What helped them to this conclusion was, that no one had ever seen the whole of
the edifice; that, even of the portion best known, some part or other was always wrapped in
thick folds of mist from the mountain; and that, when the sun shone upon this mist, the parts
of the building that appeared through the vaporous veil were strangely glorified in their indistinctness,
so that they seemed to belong to some aerial abode in the land of the sunset; and the beholders
could hardly tell whether they had ever seen them before, or whether they were now for the
first time partially revealed.

Nor, although it was inhabited, could certain information be procured as to its internal construction.
Those who dwelt in it often discovered rooms they had never entered before--yea, once or twice,--whole
suites of apartments, of which only dim legends had been handed down from former times. Some
of them expected to find, one day, secret places, filled with treasures of wondrous jewels;
amongst which they hoped to light upon Solomon's ring, which had for ages disappeared from
the earth, but which had controlled the spirits, and the possession of which made a man simply
what a man should be, the king of the world. Now and then, a narrow, winding stair, hitherto
untrodden, would bring them forth on a new turret, whence new prospects of the circumjacent
country were spread out before them. How many more of these there might be, or how much loftier,
no one could tell. Nor could the foundations of the castle in the rock on which it was built
be determined with the smallest approach to precision. Those of the family who had given themselves
to exploring in that direction, found such a labyrinth of vaults and passages, and endless
successions of down-going stairs, out of one underground space into a yet lower, that they
came to the conclusion that at least the whole mountain was perforated and honeycombed in this
fashion. They had a dim consciousness, too, of the presence, in those awful regions, of beings
whom they could not comprehend. Once they came upon the brink of a great black gulf, in which
the eye could see nothing but darkness: they recoiled with horror; for the conviction flashed
upon them that that gulf went down into the very central spaces of the earth, of which they
had hitherto been wandering only in the upper crust; nay, that the seething blackness before
them had relations mysterious, and beyond human comprehension, with the far-off voids of space,
into which the stars dare not enter.

At the foot of the cliff whereon the castle stood, lay a deep lake, inaccessible save by a
few avenues, being surrounded on all sides with precipices which made the water look very black,
although it was pure as the nightsky. From a door in the castle, which was not to be otherwise
entered, a broad flight of steps, cut in the rock, went down to the lake, and disappeared below
its surface. Some thought the steps went to the very bottom of the water.

Now in this castle there dwelt a large family of brothers and sisters. They had never seen
their father or mother. The younger had been educated by the elder, and these by an unseen
care and ministration, about the sources of which they had, somehow or other, troubled themselves
very little--for what people are accustomed to, they regard as coming from nobody; as if help
and progress and joy and love were the natural crops of Chaos or old Night. But Tradition said
that one day--it was utterly uncertain when--their father would come, and leave them no more;
for he was still alive, though where he lived nobody knew. In the meantime all the rest had
to obey their eldest brother, and listen to his counsels.

But almost all the family was very fond of liberty, as they called it; and liked to run up
and down, hither and thither, roving about, with neither law nor order, just as they pleased.
So they could not endure their brother's tyranny, as they called it. At one time they said
that he was only one of themselves, and therefore they would not obey him; at another, that
he was not like them, and could not understand them, and therefore they would not obey him.
Yet, sometimes, when he came and looked them full in the face, they were terrified, and dared
not disobey, for he was stately and stern and strong. Not one of them loved him heartily, except
the eldest sister, who was very beautiful and silent, and whose eyes shone as if light lay
somewhere deep behind them. Even she, although she loved him, thought him very hard sometimes;
for when he had once said a thing plainly, he could not be persuaded to think it over again.
So even she forgot him sometimes, and went her own ways, and enjoyed herself without him. Most
of them regarded him as a sort of watchman, whose business it was to keep them in order; and
so they were indignant and disliked him. Yet they all had a secret feeling that they ought
to be subject to him; and after any particular act of disregard, none of them could think,
with any peace, of the old story about the return of their father to his house. But indeed
they never thought much about it, or about their father at all; for how could those who cared
so little for their brother, whom they saw every day, care for their father whom they had never
seen?--One chief cause of complaint against him was that he interfered with their favourite
studies and pursuits; whereas he only sought to make them give up trifling with earnest things,
and seek for truth, and not for amusement, from the many wonders around them. He did not want
them to turn to other studies, or to eschew pleasures; but, in those studies, to seek the highest
things most, and other things in proportion to their true worth and nobleness. This could not
fail to be distasteful to those who did not care for what was higher than they. And so matters
went on for a time. They thought they could do better without their brother; and their brother
knew they could not do at all without him, and tried to fulfil the charge committed into his hands.

At length, one day, for the thought seemed to strike them simultaneously, they conferred together
about giving a great entertainment in their grandest rooms to any of their neighbours who chose
to come, or indeed to any inhabitants of the earth or air who would visit them. They were too
proud to reflect that some company might defile even the dwellers in what was undoubtedly the
finest palace on the face of the earth. But what made the thing worse, was, that the old tradition
said that these rooms were to be kept entirely for the use of the owner of the castle. And,
indeed, whenever they entered them, such was the effect of their loftiness and grandeur upon
their minds, that they always thought of the old story, and could not help believing it. Nor
would the brother permit them to forget it now; but, appearing suddenly amongst them, when
they had no expectation of being interrupted by him, he rebuked them, both for the indiscriminate
nature of their invitation, and for the intention of introducing any one, not to speak of some
who would doubtless make their appearance on the evening in question, into the rooms kept sacred
for the use of the unknown father. But by this time their talk with each other had so excited
their expectations of enjoyment, which had previously been strong enough, that anger sprung
up within them at the thought of being deprived of their hopes, and they looked each other
in the eyes; and the look said: "We are many and he is one--let us get rid of him, for he is
always finding fault, and thwarting us in the most innocent pleasures;--as if we would wish
to do anything wrong!" So without a word spoken, they rushed upon him; and although he was
stronger than any of them, and struggled hard at first, yet they overcame him at last. Indeed
some of them thought he yielded to their violence long before they had the mastery of him;
and this very submission terrified the more tender-hearted amongst them. However, they bound
him; carried him down many stairs, and, having remembered an iron staple in the wall of a certain
vault, with a thick rusty chain attached to it, they bore him thither, and made the chain fast
around him. There they left him, shutting the great gnarring brazen door of the vault, as they
departed for the upper regions of the castle.

Now all was in a tumult of preparation. Every one was talking of the coming festivity; but
no one spoke of the deed they had done. A sudden paleness overspread the face, now of one,
and now of another; but it passed away, and no one took any notice of it; they only plied the
task of the moment the more energetically. Messengers were sent far and near, not to individuals
or families, but publishing in all places of concourse a general invitation to any who chose
to come on a certain day, and partake for certain succeeding days of the hospitality of the
dwellers in the castle. Many were the preparations immediately begun for complying with the
invitation. But the noblest of their neighbours refused to appear; not from pride, but because
of the unsuitableness and carelessness of such a mode. With some of them it was an old condition
in the tenure of their estates, that they should go to no one's dwelling except visited in
person, and expressly solicited. Others, knowing what sort of persons would be there, and that,
from a certain physical antipathy, they could scarcely breathe in their company, made up their
minds at once not to go. Yet multitudes, many of them beautiful and innocent as well as gay,
resolved to appear.

Meanwhile the great rooms of the castle were got in readiness--that is, they proceeded to deface
them with decorations; for there was a solemnity and stateliness about them in their ordinary
condition, which was at once felt to be unsuitable for the light-hearted company so soon to
move about in them with the self-same carelessness with which men walk abroad within the great
heavens and hills and clouds. One day, while the workmen were busy, the eldest sister, of whom
I have already spoken, happened to enter, she knew not why. Suddenly the great idea of the
mighty halls dawned upon her, and filled her soul. The so-called decorations vanished from
her view, and she felt as if she stood in her father's presence. She was at one elevated and
humbled. As suddenly the idea faded and fled, and she beheld but the gaudy festoons and draperies
and paintings which disfigured the grandeur. She wept and sped away. Now it was too late to
interfere, and things must take their course. She would have been but a Cassandra-prophetess
to those who saw but the pleasure before them. She had not been present when her brother was
imprisoned; and indeed for some days had been so wrapt in her own business, that she had taken
but little heed of anything that was going on. But they all expected her to show herself when
the company was gathered; and they had applied to her for advice at various times during their
operations.

At length the expected hour arrived, and the company began to assemble. It was a warm summer
evening. The dark lake reflected the rose-coloured clouds in the west, and through the flush
rowed many gaily painted boats, with various coloured flags, towards the massy rock on which
the castle stood. The trees and flowers seemed already asleep, and breathing forth their sweet
dream-breath. Laughter and low voices rose from the breast of the lake to the ears of the youths
and maidens looking forth expectant from the lofty windows. They went down to the broad platform
at the top of the stairs in front of the door to receive their visitors. By degrees the festivities
of the evening commenced. The same smiles flew forth both at eyes and lips, darting like beams
through the gathering crowd. Music, from unseen sources, now rolled in billows, now crept in
ripples through the sea of air that filled the lofty rooms. And in the dancing halls, when
hand took hand, and form and motion were moulded and swayed by the indwelling music, it governed
not these alone, but, as the ruling spirit of the place, every new burst of music for a new
dance swept before it a new and accordant odour, and dyed the flames that glowed in the lofty
lamps with a new and accordant stain. The floors bent beneath the feet of the time-keeping
dancers. But twice in the evening some of the inmates started, and the pallor occasionally
common to the household overspread their faces, for they felt underneath them a counter-motion
to the dance, as if the floor rose slightly to answer their feet. And all the time their brother
lay below in the dungeon, like John the Baptist in the castle of Herod, when the lords and
captains sat around, and the daughter of Herodias danced before them. Outside, all around the
castle, brooded the dark night unheeded; for the clouds had come up from all sides, and were
crowding together overhead. In the unfrequent pauses of the music, they might have heard, now
and then, the gusty rush of a lonely wind, coming and going no one could know whence or whither,
born and dying unexpected and unregarded.

But when the festivities were at their height, when the external and passing confidence which
is produced between superficial natures by a common pleasure was at the full, a sudden crash
of thunder quelled the music, as the thunder quells the noise of the uplifted sea. The windows
were driven in, and torrents of rain, carried in the folds of a rushing wind, poured into the
halls. The lights were swept away; and the great rooms, now dark within, were darkened yet
more by the dazzling shoots of flame from the vault of blackness overhead. Those that ventured
to look out of the windows saw, in the blue brilliancy of the quick-following jets of lightning,
the lake at the foot of the rock, ordinarily so still and so dark, lighted up, not on the surface
only, but down to half its depth; so that, as it tossed in the wind, like a tortured sea of
writhing flames, or incandescent half-molten serpents of brass, they could not tell whether
a strong phosphorescence did not issue from the transparent body of the waters, as if earth
and sky lightened together, one consenting source of flaming utterance.

Sad was the condition of the late plastic mass of living form that had flowed into shape at
the will and law of the music. Broken into individuals, the common transfusing spirit withdrawn,
they stood drenched, cold, and benumbed, with clinging garments; light, order, harmony, purpose
departed, and chaos restored; the issuings of life turned back on their sources, chilly and
dead. And in every heart reigned the falsest of despairing convictions, that this was the only
reality, and that was but a dream. The eldest sister stood with clasped hands and down-bent
head, shivering and speechless, as if waiting for something to follow. Nor did she wait long.
A terrible flash and thunder-peal made the castle rock; and in the pausing silence that followed,
her quick sense heard the rattling of a chain far off, deep down; and soon the sound of heavy
footsteps, accompanied with the clanking of iron, reached her ear. She felt that her brother
was at hand. Even in the darkness, and amidst the bellowing of another deep-bosomed cloud-monster,
she knew that he had entered the room. A moment after, a continuous pulsation of angry blue
light began, which, lasting for some moments, revealed him standing amidst them, gaunt, haggard,
and motionless; his hair and beard untrimmed, his face ghastly, his eyes large and hollow.
The light seemed to gather around him as a centre. Indeed some believed that it throbbed and
radiated from his person, and not from the stormy heavens above them. The lightning had rent
the wall of his prison, and released the iron staple of his chain, which he had wound about
him like a girdle. In his hand he carried an iron fetter-bar, which he had found on the floor
of the vault. More terrified at his aspect than at all the violence of the storm, the visitors,
with many a shriek and cry, rushed out into the tempestuous night. By degrees, the storm died
away. Fol. 1^a. TITLE: Thordinary of Crysten men [woodcut below] Fol. 1^b-4^b, table of contents.
Fol.

5^a [woodcut above]: Here begynneth a notable treatyse and fu; necessary to all Crysten men
for to know and it is named the Ordynary of Crystyens or of Crysten mne. Fol. 217^b: Here endeth
the book named the Ordynarye of Crysten men newly hystoryed and translated out of Frenshe
in to Englysshe. Enprynted in the city of London in the Fletestrete
in the sygne of y^e sonne by Wnyyn be word. y^e were of our lorde
M.CCCCC.vi. Fol. The brother caused
the doors of the great suite of rooms to be closed, leaving them just as they were, with all
the childish adornment scattered about, and the rain still falling in through the shattered
windows. "Thus let them lie," said he, "till the rain and frost have cleansed them of paint
and drapery: no storm can hurt the pillars and arches of these halls."

The hours of this day went heavily. The storm was gone, but the rain was left; the passion
had departed, but the tears remained behind. Dull and dark the low misty clouds brooded over
the castle and the lake, and shut out all the neighbourhood. Even if they had climbed to the
loftiest known turret, they would have found it swathed in a garment of clinging vapour, affording
no refreshment to the eye, and no hope to the heart. There was one lofty tower that rose sheer
a hundred feet above the rest, and from which the fog could have been seen lying in a grey
mass beneath; but that tower they had not yet discovered, nor another close beside it, the
top of which was never seen, nor could be, for the highest clouds of heaven clustered continually
around it. The rain fell continuously, though not heavily, without; and within, too, there
were clouds from which dropped the tears which are the rain of the spirit. All the good of
life seemed for the time departed, and their souls lived but as leafless trees that had forgotten
the joy of the summer, and whom no wind prophetic of spring had yet visited. They moved about
mechanically, and had not strength enough left to wish to die.

The next day the clouds were higher, and a little wind blew through such loopholes in the turrets
as the false improvements of the inmates had not yet filled with glass, shutting out, as the
storm, so the serene visitings of the heavens. Throughout the day, the brother took various
opportunities of addressing a gentle command, now to one and now to another of his family.
It was obeyed in silence. The wind blew fresher through the loopholes and the shattered windows
of the great rooms, and found its way, by unknown passages, to faces and eyes hot with weeping.
It cooled and blessed them.--When the sun arose the next day, it was in a clear sky.

By degrees, everything fell into the regularity of subordination. With the subordination came
increase of freedom. The steps of the more youthful of the family were heard on the stairs
and in the corridors more light and quick than ever before. Their brother had lost the terrors
of aspect produced by his confinement, and his commands were issued more gently, and oftener
with a smile, than in all their previous history. By degrees his presence was universally felt
through the house. It was no surprise to any one at his studies, to see him by his side when
he lifted up his eyes, though he had not before known that he was in the room. And although
some dread still remained, it was rapidly vanishing before the advances of a firm friendship.
Without immediately ordering their labours, he always influenced them, and often altered their
direction and objects. The change soon evident in the household was remarkable. A simpler,
nobler expression was visible on all the countenances. The voices of the men were deeper, and
yet seemed by their very depth more feminine than before; while the voices of the women were
softer and sweeter, and at the same time more full and decided. Now the eyes had often an expression
as if their sight was absorbed in the gaze of the inward eyes; and when the eyes of two met,
there passed between those eyes the utterance of a conviction that both meant the same thing.
But the change was, of course, to be seen more clearly, though not more evidently, in individuals.

One of the brothers, for instance, was very fond of astronomy. He had his observatory on a
lofty tower, which stood pretty clear of the others, towards the north and east. But hitherto,
his astronomy, as he had called it, had been more of the character of astrology. Often, too,
he might have been seen directing a heaven-searching telescope to catch the rapid transit of
a fiery shooting-star, belonging altogether to the earthly atmosphere, and not to the serene
heavens. He had to learn that the signs of the air are not the signs of the skies. Nay, once,
his brother surprised him in the act of examining through his longest tube a patch of burning
heath upon a distant hill. But now he was diligent from morning till night in the study of
the laws of the truth that has to do with stars; and when the curtain of the sunlight was about
to rise from before the heavenly worlds which it had hidden all day long, he might be seen
preparing his instruments with that solemn countenance with which it becometh one to look into
the mysterious harmonies of Nature. Now he learned what law and order and truth are, what consent
and harmony mean; how the individual may find his own end in a higher end, where law and freedom
mean the same thing, and the purest certainty exists without the slightest constraint. Thus
he stood on the earth, and looked to the heavens.

Another, who had been much given to searching out the hollow places and recesses in the foundations
of the castle, and who was often to be found with compass and ruler working away at a chart
of the same which he had been in process of constructing, now came to the conclusion, that
only by ascending the upper regions of his abode could he become capable of understanding what
lay beneath; and that, in all probability, one clear prospect, from the top of the highest
attainable turret, over the castle as it lay below, would reveal more of the idea of its internal
construction, than a year spent in wandering through its subterranean vaults. But the fact
was, that the desire to ascend wakening within him had made him forget what was beneath; and
having laid aside his chart for a time at least, he was now to be met in every quarter of the
upper parts, searching and striving upward, now in one direction, now in another; and seeking,
as he went, the best outlooks into the clear air of outer realities.

And they began to discover that they were all meditating different aspects of the same thing;
and they brought together their various discoveries, and recognised the likeness between them;
and the one thing often explained the other, and combining with it helped to a third. They
grew in consequence more and more friendly and loving; so that every now and then one turned
to another and said, as in surprise, "Why, you are my brother!"--"Why, you are my sister!"
And yet they had always known it.

The change reached to all. One, who lived on the air of sweet sounds, and who was almost always
to be found seated by her harp or some other instrument, had, till the late storm, been generally
merry and playful, though sometimes sad. But for a long time after that, she was often found
weeping, and playing little simple airs which she had heard in childhood--backward longings,
followed by fresh tears. Before long, however, a new element manifested itself in her music.
It became yet more wild, and sometimes retained all its sadness, but it was mingled with anticipation
and hope. The past and the future merged in one; and while memory yet brought the rain-cloud,
expectation threw the rainbow across its bosom--and all was uttered in her music, which rose
and swelled, now to defiance, now to victory; then died in a torrent of weeping.

As to the eldest sister, it was many days before she recovered from the shock. At length, one
day, her brother came to her, took her by the hand, led her to an open window, and told her
to seat herself by it, and look out. She did so; but at first saw nothing more than an unsympathising
blaze of sunlight. But as she looked, the horizon widened out, and the dome of the sky ascended,
till the grandeur seized upon her soul, and she fell on her knees and wept. Now the heavens
seemed to bend lovingly over her, and to stretch out wide cloud-arms to embrace her; the earth
lay like the bosom of an infinite love beneath her, and the wind kissed her cheek with an odour
of roses. She sprang to her feet, and turned, in an agony of hope, expecting to behold the
face of the father, but there stood only her brother, looking calmly though lovingly on her
emotion. She turned again to the window. On the hilltops rested the sky: Heaven and Earth were
one; and the prophecy awoke in her soul, that from betwixt them would the steps of the father
approach.

Hitherto she had seen but Beauty; now she beheld Truth. Often had she looked on such clouds
as these, and loved the strange ethereal curves into which the winds moulded them; and had
smiled as her little pet sister told her what curious animals she saw in them, and tried to
point them out to her. Now they were as troops of angels, jubilant over her new birth, for
they sang, in her soul, of beauty, and truth, and love. She looked down, and her little sister
knelt beside her.

She was a curious child, with black, glittering eyes, and dark hair; at the mercy of every
wandering wind; a frolicsome, daring girl, who laughed more than she smiled. She was generally
in attendance on her sister, and was always finding and bringing her strange things. She never
pulled a primrose, but she knew the haunts of all the orchis tribe, and brought from them bees
and butterflies innumerable, as offerings to her sister. Curious moths and glow-worms were
her greatest delight; and she loved the stars, because they were like the glow-worms. But the
change had affected her too; for her sister saw that her eyes had lost their glittering look,
and had become more liquid and transparent. And from that time she often observed that her
gaiety was more gentle, her smile more frequent, her laugh less bell-like; and although she
was as wild as ever, there was more elegance in her motions, and more music in her voice. And
she clung to her sister with far greater fondness than before.

The land reposed in the embrace of the warm summer days. The clouds of heaven nestled around
the towers of the castle; and the hearts of its inmates became conscious of a warm atmosphere--of
a presence of love. They began to feel like the children of a household, when the mother is
at home. Their faces and forms grew daily more and more beautiful, till they wondered as they
gazed on each other. As they walked in the gardens of the castle, or in the country around,
they were often visited, especially the eldest sister, by sounds that no one heard but themselves,
issuing from woods and waters; and by forms of love that lightened out of flowers, and grass,
and great rocks. Now and then the young children would come in with a slow, stately step, and,
with great eyes that looked as if they would devour all the creation, say that they had met
the father amongst the trees, and that he had kissed them; "And," added one of them once, "I
grew so big!" But when the others went out to look, they could see no one. And some said it
must have been the brother, who grew more and more beautiful, and loving, and reverend, and
who had lost all traces of hardness, so that they wondered they could ever have thought him
stern and harsh. But the eldest sister held her peace, and looked up, and her eyes filled with
tears. "Who can tell," thought she, "but the little children know more about it than we?"

Often, at sunrise, might be heard their hymn of praise to their unseen father, whom they felt
to be near, though they saw him not. Some words thereof once reached my ear through the folds
of the music in which they floated, as in an upward snowstorm of sweet sounds. And these are
some of the words I heard--but there was much I seemed to hear which I could not understand,
and some things which I understood but cannot utter again.

"We thank thee that we have a father, and not a maker; that thou hast begotten us, and not
moulded us as images of clay; that we have come forth of thy heart, and have not been fashioned
by thy hands. It must be so. Only the heart of a father is able to create. We rejoice in it,
and bless thee that we know it. We thank thee for thyself. Be what thou art--our root and life,
our beginning and end, our all in all. Come home to us. Thou livest; therefore we live. In
thy light we see. Thou art--that is all our song."

Thus they worship, and love, and wait. Their hope and expectation grow ever stronger and brighter,
that one day, ere long, the Father will show Himself amongst them, and thenceforth dwell in
His own house for evermore. What was once but an old legend has become the one desire of their
hearts.

And the loftiest hope is the surest of being fulfilled.

THE WOW O'RIVEN

Elsie Scott had let her work fall on her knees, and her hands on her work, and was looking
out of the wide, low window of her room, which was on one of the ground floors of the village
street. Through a gap in the household shrubbery of fuchsias and myrtles filling the window-sill,
one passing on the foot pavement might get a momentary glimpse of her pale face, lighted up
with two blue eyes, over which some inward trouble had spread a faint, gauze-like haziness.
But almost before her thoughts had had time to wander back to this trouble, a shout of children's
voices, at the other end of the street, reached her ear. She listened a moment. A shadow of
displeasure and pain crossed her countenance; and rising hastily, she betook herself to an
inner apartment, and closed the door behind her.

Meantime the sounds drew nearer; and by and by an old man, whose strange appearance and dress
showed that he had little capacity either for good or evil, passed the window. His clothes
were comfortable enough in quality and condition, for they were the annual gift of a benevolent
lady in the neighbourhood; but, being made to accommodate his taste, both known and traditional,
they were somewhat peculiar in cut and adornment. Both coat and trousers were of a dark grey
cloth; but the former, which, in its shape, partook of the military, had a straight collar
of yellow, and narrow cuffs of the same; while upon both sleeves, about the place where a corporal
wears his stripes, was expressed, in the same yellow cloth, a somewhat singular device. It
was as close an imitation of a bell, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, as the tailor's
skill could produce from a single piece of cloth. The origin of the military cut of his coat
was well known. His preference for it arose in the time of the wars of the first Napoleon,
when the threatened invasion of the country caused the organisation of many volunteer regiments.
The martial show and exercises captivated the poor man's fancy; and from that time forward
nothing pleased his vanity, and consequently conciliated his goodwill more, than to style him
by his favourite title--the Colonel. But the badge on his arm had a deeper origin, which will
be partially manifest in the course of the story--if story it can be called. It was, indeed,
the baptism of the fool, the outward and visible sign of his relation to the infinite and unseen.
His countenance, however, although the features were not of any peculiarly low or animal type,
showed no corresponding sign of the consciousness of such a relation, being as vacant as human
countenance could well be.

The cause of Elsie's annoyance was that the fool was annoyed; he was followed by a troop of
boys, who turned his rank into scorn, and assailed him with epithets hateful to him. Although
the most harmless of creatures when left alone, he was dangerous when roused; and now he stooped
repeatedly to pick up stones and hurl them at his tormentors, who took care, while abusing
him, to keep at a considerable distance, lest he should get hold of them. Amidst the sounds
of derision that followed him, might be heard the words frequently repeated--"Come hame, come
hame." But in a few minutes the noise ceased, either from the interference of some friendly
inhabitant, or that the boys grew weary, and departed in search of other amusement. By and
by, Elsie might be seen again at her work in the window; but the cloud over her eyes was deeper,
and her whole face more sad.

Indeed, so much did the persecution of this poor man affect her, that an onlooker would have
been compelled to seek the cause in some yet deeper sympathy than that commonly felt for the
oppressed, even by women. And such a sympathy existed, strange as it may seem, between the
beautiful girl (for many called her a bonnie lassie) and this "tatter of humanity". Nothing
would have been farther from the thoughts of those that knew them, than the supposition of
any correspondence or connection between them; yet this sympathy sprang in part from a real
similarity in their history and present condition.

All the facts that were known about Feel Jock's origin were these: that seventy years ago,
a man who had gone with his horse and cart some miles from the village, to fetch home a load
of peat from a desolate moss, had heard, while toiling along as rough a road on as lonely a
hillside as any in Scotland, the cry of a child; and, searching about, had found the infant,
hardly wrapt in rags, and untended, as if the earth herself had just given birth--that desert
moor, wide and dismal, broken and watery, the only bosom for him to lie upon, and the cold,
clear night-heaven his only covering. The man had brought him home, and the parish had taken
parish-care of him. He had grown up, and proved what he now was--almost an idiot. Many of the
townspeople were kind to him, and employed him in fetching water for them from the river or
wells in the neighbourhood, paying him for his trouble in victuals, or whisky, of which he
was very fond. He seldom spoke; and the sentences he could utter were few; yet the tone, and
even the words of his limited vocabulary, were sufficient to express gratitude and some measure
of love towards those who were kind to him, and hatred of those who teased and insulted him.
He lived a life without aim, and apparently to no purpose; in this resembling most of his more
gifted fellow-men, who, with all the tools and materials necessary for building a noble mansion,
are yet content with a clay hut.

Elsie, on the contrary, had been born in a comfortable farmhouse, amidst homeliness and abundance.
But at a very early age she had lost both father and mother; not so early, however, but that
she had faint memories of warm soft times on her mother's bosom, and of refuge in her mother's
arms from the attacks of geese, and the pursuit of pigs. Therefore, in after-times, when she
looked forward to heaven, it was as much a reverting to the old heavenly times of childhood
and mother's love, as an anticipation of something yet to be revealed. Indeed, without some
such memory, how should we ever picture to ourselves a perfect rest? But sometimes it would
seem as if the more a heart was made capable of loving, the less it had to love; and poor Elsie,
in passing from a mother's to a brother's guardianship, felt a change of spiritual temperature
too keen. He was not a bad man, or incapable of benevolence when touched by the sight of want
in anything of which he would himself have felt the privation; but he was so coarsely made
that only the purest animal necessities affected him, and a hard word, or unfeeling speech,
could never have reached the quick of his nature through the hide that enclosed it. Elsie,
on the contrary, was excessively and painfully sensitive, as if her nature constantly portended
an invisible multitude of half-spiritual, half-nervous antenna, which shrank and trembled in
every current of air at all below their own temperature. The effect of this upon her behaviour
was such that she was called odd; and the poor girl felt she was not like other people, yet
could not help it. Her brother, too, laughed at her without the slightest idea of the pain
he occasioned, or the remotest feeling of curiosity as to what the inward and consistent causes
of the outward abnormal condition might be. Tenderness was the divine comforting she needed;
and it was altogether absent from her brother's character and behaviour.

Her neighbours looked on her with some interest, but they rather shunned than courted her acquaintance;
especially after the return of certain nervous attacks, to which she had been subject in childhood,
and which were again brought on by the events I must relate. It is curious how certain diseases
repel, by a kind of awe, the sympathies of the neighbours: as if, by the fact of being subject
to them, the patient were removed into another realm of existence, from which, like the dead
with the living, she can hold communion with those around her only partially, and with a mixture
of dread pervading the intercourse. Thus some of the deepest, purest wells of spiritual life,
are, like those in old castles, choked up by the decay of the outer walls. But what tended
more than anything, perhaps, to keep up the painful unrest of her soul (for the beauty of her
character was evident in the fact that the irritation seldom reached her mind), was a circumstance
at which, in its present connection, some of my readers will smile, and others feel a shudder
corresponding in kind to that of Elsie.

Her brother was very fond of a rather small, but ferocious-looking bull-dog, which followed
close at his heels, wherever he went, with hanging head and slouching gait, never leaping or
racing about like other dogs. When in the house, he always lay under his master's chair. He
seemed to dislike Elsie, and she felt an unspeakable repugnance to him. Though she never mentioned
her aversion, her brother easily saw it by the way in which she avoided the animal; and attributing
it entirely to fear--which indeed had a great share in the matter--he would cruelly aggravate
it, by telling her stories of the fierce hardihood and relentless persistency of this kind
of animal. He dared not yet further increase her terror by offering to set the creature upon
her, because it was doubtful whether he might be able to restrain him; but the mental suffering
which he occasioned by this heartless conduct, and for which he had no sympathy, was as severe
as many bodily sufferings to which he would have been sorry to subject her. Whenever the poor
girl happened inadvertently to pass near the dog, which was seldom, a low growl made her aware
of his proximity, and drove her to a quick retreat. He was, in fact, the animal impersonation
of the animal opposition which she had continually to endure. Like chooses like; and the bulldog
in her brother made choice of the bull-dog out of him for his companion. So her day was one
of shrinking fear and multiform discomfort.

But a nature capable of so much distress, must of necessity be capable of a corresponding amount
of pleasure; and in her case this was manifest in the fact that sleep and the quiet of her
own room restored her wonderfully. If she were only let alone, a calm mood, filled with images
of pleasure, soon took possession of her mind.

Her acquaintance with the fool had commenced some ten years previous to the time I write of,
when she was quite a little girl, and had come from the country with her brother, who, having
taken a small farm close to the town, preferred residing in the town to occupying the farmhouse,
which was not comfortable. She looked at first with some terror on his uncouth appearance,
and with much wonderment on his strange dress. This wonder was heightened by a conversation
she overheard one day in the street, between the fool and a little pale-faced boy, who, approaching
him respectfully, said, "Weel, cornel!" "Weel, laddie!" was the reply. "Fat dis the wow say,
cornel?" "Come hame, come hame!" answered the colonel, with both accent and quantity heaped
on the word hame. What the wow could be, she had no idea; only, as the years passed on, the
strange word became in her mind indescribably associated with the strange shape in yellow cloth
on his sleeves. Had she been a native of the town, she could not have failed to know its import,
so familiar was every one with it, although it did not belong to the local vocabulary; but,
as it was, years passed away before she discovered its meaning. And when, again and again,
the fool, attempting to convey his gratitude for some kindness she had shown him mumbled over
the words--"The wow o' Rivven--the wow o' Rivven," the wonder would return as to what could
be the idea associated with them in his mind, but she made no advance towards their explanation.

That, however, which most attracted her to the old man, was his persecution by the children.
They were to him what the bull-dog was to her--the constant source of irritation and annoyance.
They could hardly hurt him, nor did he appear to dread other injury from them than insult,
to which, fool though he was, he was keenly alive. Human gadflies that they were! they sometimes
stung him beyond endurance, and he would curse them in the impotence of his anger. Once or
twice Elsie had been so far carried beyond her constitutional timidity, by sympathy for the
distress of her friend, that she had gone out and talked to the boys--even scolded them, so
that they slunk away ashamed, and began to stand as much in dread of her as of the clutches
of their prey. So she, gentle and timid to excess, acquired among them the reputation of a
termagant. Popular opinion among children, as among men, is of ten just, but as often very
unjust; for the same manifestations may proceed from opposite principles; and, therefore, as
indices to character, may mislead as often as enlighten.

Next door to the house in which Elsie resided, dwelt a tradesman and his wife, who kept an
indefinite sort of shop, in which various kinds of goods were exposed for sale. Their youngest
son was about the same age as Elsie; and while they were rather more than children, and less
than young people, he spent many of his evenings with her, somewhat to the loss of position
in his classes at the parish school. They were, indeed, much attached to each other; and, peculiarly
constituted as Elsie was, one may imagine what kind of heavenly messenger a companion stronger
than herself must have been to her. In fact, if she could have framed the undefinable need
of her childlike nature into an articulate prayer, it would have been--"Give me some one to
love me stronger than I." Any love was helpful, yes, in its degree, saving to her poor troubled
soul; but the hope, as they grew older together, that the powerful, yet tender-hearted youth,
really loved her, and would one day make her his wife, was like the opening of heavenly eyes
of life and love in the hitherto blank and deathlike face of her existence. But nothing had
been said of love, although they met and parted like lovers.

Doubtless, if the circles of their thought and feeling had continued as now to intersect each
other, there would have been no interruption to their affection; but the time at length arrived
when the old couple, seeing the rest of their family comfortably settled in life, resolved
to make a gentleman of the youngest; and so sent him from school to college. The facilities
existing in Scotland for providing a professional training enabled them to educate him as a
surgeon. He parted from Elsie with some regret; but, far less dependent on her than she was
on him, and full of the prospects of the future, he felt none of that sinking at the heart
which seemed to lay her whole nature open to a fresh inroad of all the terrors and sorrows
of her peculiar existence. No correspondence took place between them. New pursuits and relations,
and the development of his tastes and judgments, entirely altered the position of poor Elsie
in his memory. Having been, during their intercourse, far less of a man than she of a woman,
he had no definite idea of the place he had occupied in her regard; and in his mind she receded
into the background of the past, without his having any idea that she would suffer thereby,
or that he was unjust towards her; while, in her thoughts, his image stood in the highest and
clearest relief. It was the centre-point from which and towards which all lines radiated and
converged; and although she could not but be doubtful about the future, yet there was much
hope mingled with her doubts.

But when, at the close of two years, he visited his native village, and she saw before her,
instead of the homely youth who had left her that winter evening, one who, to her inexperienced
eyes, appeared a finished gentleman, her heart sank within her, as if she had found Nature
herself false in her ripening processes, destroying the beautiful promise of a former year
by changing instead of developing her creations. He spoke kindly to her, but not cordially.
To her ear the voice seemed to come from a great distance out of the past; and while she looked
upon him, that optical change passed over her vision, which all have experienced after gazing
abstractedly on any object for a time: his form grew very small, and receded to an immeasurable
distance; till, her imagination mingling with the twilight haze of her senses, she seemed to
see him standing far off on a hill, with the bright horizon of sunset for a background to his
clearly defined figure.

She knew no more till she found herself in bed in the dark; and the first message that reached
her from the outer world was the infernal growl of the bull-dog from the room below. Next day
she saw her lover walking with two ladies, who would have thought it some degree of condescension
to speak to her; and he passed the house without once looking towards it.

One who is sufficiently possessed by the demon of nervousness to be glad of the magnetic influences
of a friend's company in a public promenade, or of a horse beneath him in passing through a
churchyard, will have some faint idea of how utterly exposed and defenceless poor Elsie now
felt on the crowded thoroughfare of life. And so the insensibility which had overtaken her,
was not the ordinary swoon with which Nature relieves the overstrained nerves, but the return
of the epileptic fits of her early childhood; and if the condition of the poor girl had been
pitiable before, it was tenfold more so now. Yet she did not complain, but bore all in silence,
though it was evident that her health was giving way. But now, help came to her from a strange
quarter; though many might not be willing to accord the name of help to that which rather hastened
than retarded the progress of her decline.

She had gone to spend a few of the summer days with a relative in the country, some miles from
her home, if home it could be called. One evening, towards sunset, she went out for a solitary
walk. Passing from the little garden gate, she went along a bare country road for some distance,
and then, turning aside by a footpath through a thicket of low trees, she came out in a lonely
little churchyard on the hillside. Hardly knowing whether or not she had intended to go there,
she seated herself on a mound covered with long grass, one of many. Before her stood the ruins
of an old church which was taking centuries to crumble. Little remained but the gable wall,
immensely thick, and covered with ancient ivy. The rays of the setting sun fell on a mound
at its foot, not green like the rest, but of a rich red-brown in the rosy sunset, and evidently
but newly heaped up. Her eyes, too, rested upon it. Slowly the sun sank below the near horizon.

As the last brilliant point disappeared, the ivy darkened, and a wind arose and shook all its
leaves, making them look cold and troubled; and to Elsie's ear came a low faint sound, as from
a far-off bell. But close beside her--and she started and shivered at the sound--rose a deep,
monotonous, almost sepulchral voice, "Come hame, come hame! The wow, the wow!"

At once she understood the whole. She sat in the churchyard of the ancient parish church of
Ruthven; and when she lifted up her eyes, there she saw, in the half-ruined belfry, the old
bell, all but hidden with ivy, which the passing wind had roused to utter one sleepy tone;
and there beside her, stood the fool with the bell on his arm; and to him and to her the wow
o' Rivven said, "Come hame, come hame!" Ah, what did she want in the whole universe of God
but a home? And though the ground beneath was hard, and the sky overhead far and boundless,
and the hillside lonely and companionless, yet somewhere within the visible and beyond these
the outer surface of creation, there might be a home for her; as round the wintry house the
snows lie heaped up cold and white and dreary all the long forenight, while within, beyond
the closed shutters, and giving no glimmer through the thick stone wall, the fires are blazing
joyously, and the voice and laughter of young unfrozen children are heard, and nothing belongs
to winter but the grey hairs on the heads of the parents, within whose warm hearts childlike
voices are heard, and childlike thoughts move to and fro. The kernel of winter itself is spring,
or a sleeping summer.

It was no wonder that the fool, cast out of the earth on a far more desolate spot than this,
should seek to return within her bosom at this place of open doors, and should call it home.
For surely the surface of the earth had no home for him. The mound at the foot of the gable
contained the body of one who had shown him kindness. He had followed the funeral that afternoon
from the town, and had remained behind with the bell. Indeed it was his custom, though Elsie
had not known it, to follow every funeral going to this, his favourite churchyard of Ruthven;
and, possibly in imitation of its booming, for it was still tolled at the funerals, he had
given the old bell the name of the wow, and had translated its monotonous clangour into the
articulate sounds--come hame, come hame. What precise meaning he attached to the words, it
is impossible to say; but it was evident that the place possessed a strange attraction for
him, drawing him towards it by the cords of some spiritual magnetism. It is possible that in
the mind of the idiot there may have been some feeling about this churchyard and bell, which,
in the mind of another, would have become a grand poetic thought; a feeling as if the ghostly
old bell hung at the church door of the invisible world, and ever and anon rung out joyous
notes (though they sounded sad in the ears of the living), calling to the children of the unseen
to come home, come home. She sat for some time in silence; for the bell did not ring again,
and the fool spoke no more; till the dews began to fall, when she rose and went home, followed
by her companion, who passed the night in the barn. From that hour Elsie was furnished with
a visual image of the rest she sought; an image which, mingling with deeper and holier thoughts,
became, like the bow set in the cloud, the earthly pledge and sign of the fulfilment of heavenly
hopes. Often when the wintry fog of cold discomfort and homelessness filled her soul, all at
once the picture of the little churchyard--with the old gable and belfry, and the slanting
sunlight steeping down to the very roots of the long grass on the graves--arose in the darkened
chamber (camera obscura,) of her soul; and again she heard the faint Aeolian sound of the bell,
and the voice of the prophet-fool who interpreted the oracle; and the inward weariness was
soothed by the promise of a long sleep. Who can tell how many have been counted fools simply
because they were prophets; or how much of the madness in the world may be the utterance of
thoughts true and just, but belonging to a region differing from ours in its nature and scenery!

But to Elsie looking out of her window came the mocking tones of the idle boys who had chosen
as the vehicle of their scorn the very words which showed the relation of the fool to the eternal,
and revealed in him an element higher far than any yet developed in them. They turned his glory
into shame, like the enemies of David when they mocked the would-be king. And the best in a
man is often that which is most condemned by those who have not attained to his goodness. The
words, however, even as repeated by the boys, had not solely awakened indignation at the persecution
of the old man: they had likewise comforted her with the thought of the refuge that awaited
both him and her.

But the same evening a worse trial was in store for her. Again she sat near the window, oppressed
by the consciousness that her brother had come in. He had gone upstairs, and his dog had remained
at the door, exchanging surly compliments with some of his own kind, when the fool came strolling
past, and, I do not know from what cause, the dog flew at him. Elsie heard his cry and looked
up. Her fear of the brute vanished in a moment before her sympathy for her friend. She darted
from the house, and rushed towards the dog to drag him off the defenceless idiot, calling him
by his name in a tone of anger and dislike. He left the fool, and, springing at Elsie, seized
her by the arm above the elbow with such a grip that, in the midst of her agony, she fancied
she heard the bone crack. But she uttered no cry, for the most apprehensive are sometimes the
most courageous. Just then, however, her former lover was coming along the street, and, catching
a glimpse of what had happened, was on the spot in an instant, took the dog by the throat with
a gripe not inferior to his own, and having thus compelled him to relax his hold, dashed him
on the ground with a force that almost stunned him, and then with a superadded kick sent him
away limping and howling; whereupon the fool, attacking him furiously with a stick, would certainly
have finished him, had not his master descried his plight and come to his rescue.

Meantime the young surgeon had carried Elsie into the house; for, as soon as she was rescued
from the dog, she had fallen down in one of her fits, which were becoming more and more frequent
of themselves, and little needed such a shock as this to increase their violence. He was dressing
her arm when she began to recover; and when she opened her eyes, in a state of half-consciousness,
he first object she beheld was his face bending over her. Recalling nothing of what had occurred,
it seemed to her, in the dreamy condition in which the fit had left her, the same face, unchanged,
which had once shone in upon her tardy springtime, and promised to ripen it into summer. She
forgot it had departed and left her in the wintry cold. And so she uttered wild words of love
and trust; and the youth, while stung with remorse at his own neglect, was astonished to perceive
the poetic forms of beauty in which the soul of the uneducated maiden burst into flower. But
as her senses recovered themselves, the face gradually changed to her, as if the slow alteration
of two years had been phantasmagorically compressed into a few moments; and the glow departed
from the maiden's thoughts and words, and her soul found itself at the narrow window of the
present, from which she could behold but a dreary country.--From the street came the iambic
cry of the fool, "Come hame, come hame."

Tycho Brahe, I think, is said to have kept a fool, who frequently sat at his feet in his study,
and to whose mutterings he used to listen in the pauses of his own thought. The shining soul
of the astronomer drew forth the rainbow of harmony from the misty spray of words ascending
ever from the dark gulf into which the thoughts of the idiot were ever falling. He beheld curious
concurrences of words therein; and could read strange meanings from them--sometimes even received
wondrous hints for the direction of celestial inquiry, from what, to any other, and it may
be to the fool himself, was but a ceaseless and aimless babble. Such power lieth in words.
It is not then to be wondered at, that the sounds I have mentioned should fall on the ears
of Elsie, at such a moment, as a message from God Himself. This then--all this dreariness--was
but a passing show like the rest, and there lay somewhere for her a reality--a home. The tears
burst up from her oppressed heart. She received the message, and prepared to go home. From
that time her strength gradually sank, but her spirits as steadily rose.

The strength of the fool, too, began to fail, for he was old. He bore all the signs of age,
even to the grey hairs, which betokened no wisdom. But one cannot say what wisdom might be
in him, or how far he had fought his own battle, and been victorious. Whether any notion of
a continuance of life and thought dwelt in his brain, it is impossible to tell; but he seemed
to have the idea that this was not his home; and those who saw him gradually approaching his
end, might well anticipate for him a higher life in the world to come. He had passed through
this world without ever awaking to such a consciousness of being as is common to mankind. He
had spent his years like a weary dream through a long night--a strange, dismal, unkindly dream;
and now the morning was at hand. Often in his dream had he listened with sleepy senses to the
ringing of the bell, but that bell would awake him at last. He was like a seed buried too deep
in the soil, to which the light has never penetrated, and which, therefore, has never forced
its way upwards to the open air, ever experienced the resurrection of the dead. But seeds will
grow ages after they have fallen into the earth; and, indeed, with many kinds, and within some
limits, the older the seed before it germinates, the more plentiful the fruit. And may it not
be believed of many human beings, that, the Great Husbandman having sown them like seeds in
the soil of human affairs, there they lie buried a life long; and only after the upturning
of the soil by death reach a position in which the awakening of their aspiration and the consequent
growth become possible. Surely He has made nothing in vain.

A violent cold and cough brought him at last near to his end, and hearing that he was ill,
Elsie ventured one bright spring day to go to see him. When she entered the miserable room
where he lay, he held out his hand to her with something like a smile, and muttered feebly
and painfully, "I'm gaein' to the wow, nae to come back again." Elsie could not restrain her
tears; while the old man, looking fixedly at her, though with meaningless eyes, muttered, for
the last time, "Come hame! come hame!" and sank into a lethargy, from which nothing could rouse
him, till, next morning, he was waked by friendly death from the long sleep of this world's
night. They bore him to his favourite churchyard, and buried him within the site of the old
church, below his loved bell, which had ever been to him as the cuckoo-note of a coming spring.
Thus he at length obeyed its summons, and went home.

Elsie lingered till the first summer days lay warm on the land. Several kind hearts in the
village, hearing of her illness, visited her and ministered to her. Wondering at her sweetness
and patience, they regretted they had not known her before. How much consolation might not
their kindness have imparted, and how much might not their sympathy have strengthened her on
her painful road! But they could not long have delayed her going home. Nor, mentally constituted
as she was, would this have been at all to be desired. Indeed it was chiefly the expectation
of departure that quieted and soothed her tremulous nature. It is true that a deep spring of
hope and faith kept singing on in her heart, but this alone, without the anticipation of speedy
release, could only have kept her mind at peace. It could not have reached, at least for a
long time, the border land between body and mind, in which her disease lay.

One still night of summer, the nurse who watched by her bedside heard her murmur through her
sleep, "I hear it: come hame--come hame. I'm comin', I'm comin'--I'm gaein' hame to the wow,
nae to come back." She awoke at the sound of her own words, and begged the nurse to convey
to her brother her last request, that she might be buried by the side of the fool, within the
old church of Ruthven. Then she turned her face to the wall, and in the morning was found quiet
and cold. She must have died within a few minutes after her last words. She was buried according
to her request; and thus she too went home.

Side by side rest the aged fool and the young maiden; for the bell called them, and they obeyed;
and surely they found the fire burning bright, and heard friendly voices, and felt sweet lips
on theirs, in the home to which they went. Surely both intellect and love were waiting them there.

Still the old bell hangs in the old gable; and whenever another is borne to the old churchyard,
it keeps calling to those who are left behind, with the same sad, but friendly and unchanging
voice--"Come hame! come hame! come hame!" LX 20.

THE BROKEN SWORDS

The eyes of three, two sisters and a brother, gazed for the last time on a great pale-golden
star, that followed the sun down the steep west. It went down to arise again; and the brother
about to depart might return, but more than the usual doubt hung upon his future. For between
the white dresses of the sisters, shone his scarlet coat and golden sword-knot, which he had
put on for the first time, more to gratify their pride than his own vanity. The brightening
moon, as if prophetic of a future memory, had already begun to dim the scarlet and the gold,
and to give them a pale, ghostly hue. In her thoughtful light the whole group seemed more like
a meeting in the land of shadows, than a parting in the substantial earth. But which should
be called the land of realities?--the region where appearance, and space, and time drive between,
and stop the flowing currents of the soul's speech? or that region where heart meets heart,
and appearance has become the slave to utterance, and space and time are forgotten?

Through the quiet air came the far-off rush of water, and the near cry of the land-rail. Now
and then a chilly wind blew unheeded through the startled and jostling leaves that shaded the
ivy-seat. Else, there was calm everywhere, rendered yet deeper and more intense by the dusky
sorrow that filled their hearts. For, far away, hundreds of miles beyond the hearing of their
ears, roared the great war-guns; next week their brother must sail with his regiment to join
the army; and tomorrow he must leave his home.

The sisters looked on him tenderly, with vague fears about his fate. Yet little they divined
it. That the face they loved might lie pale and bloody, in a heap of slain, was the worst image
of it that arose before them; but this, had they seen the future, they would, in ignorance
of the further future, have infinitely preferred to that which awaited him. And even while
they looked on him, a dim feeling of the unsuitableness of his lot filled their minds. For,
indeed, to all judgments it must have seemed unsuitable that the home-boy, the loved of his
mother, the pet of his sisters, who was happy womanlike (as Coleridge says), if he possessed
the signs of love, having never yet sought for its proofs--that he should be sent amongst soldiers,
to command and be commanded; to kill, or perhaps to be himself crushed out of the fair earth
in the uproar that brings back for the moment the reign of Night and Chaos. No wonder that
to his sisters it seemed strange and sad. Yet such was their own position in the battle of
life, in which their father had died with doubtful conquest, that when their old military uncle
sent the boy an ensign's commission, they did not dream of refusing the only path open, as
they thought, to an honourable profession, even though it might lead to the trench-grave. They
heard it as the voice of destiny, wept, and yielded.

If they had possessed a deeper insight into his character, they would have discovered yet further
reason to doubt the fitness of the profession chosen for him; and if they had ever seen him
at school, it is possible the doubt of fitness might have strengthened into a certainty of
incongruity. His comparative inactivity amongst his schoolfellows, though occasioned by no
dulness of intellect, might have suggested the necessity of a quiet life, if inclination and
liking had been the arbiters in the choice. Nor was this inactivity the result of defective
animal spirits either, for sometimes his mirth and boyish frolic were unbounded; but it seemed
to proceed from an over-activity of the inward life, absorbing, and in some measure checking,
the outward manifestation. He had so much to do in his own hidden kingdom, that he had not
time to take his place in the polity and strife of the commonwealth around him. Hence, while
other boys were acting, he was thinking. In this point of difference, he felt keenly the superiority
of many of his companions; for another boy would have the obstacle overcome, or the adversary
subdued, while he was meditating on the propriety, or on the means, of effecting the desired
end. He envied their promptitude, while they never saw reason to envy his wisdom; for his conscience,
tender and not strong, frequently transformed slowness of determination into irresolution:
while a delicacy of the sympathetic nerves tended to distract him from any predetermined course,
by the diversity of their vibrations, responsive to influences from all quarters, and destructive
to unity of purpose.

Of such a one, the a priori judgment would be, that he ought to be left to meditate and grow
for some time, before being called upon to produce the fruits of action. But add to these mental
conditions a vivid imagination, and a high sense of honour, nourished in childhood by the reading
of the old knightly romances, and then put the youth in a position in which action is imperative,
and you have elements of strife sufficient to reduce that fair kingdom of his to utter anarchy
and madness. Yet so little, do we know ourselves, and so different are the symbols with which
the imagination works its algebra, from the realities which those symbols represent, that as
yet the youth felt no uneasiness, but contemplated his new calling with a glad enthusiasm and
some vanity; for all his prospect lay in the glow of the scarlet and the gold. Nor did this
excitement receive any check till the day before his departure, on which day I have introduced
him to my readers, when, accidently taking up a newspaper of a week old, his eye fell on these
words--"Already crying women are to be met in the streets." With this cloud afar on his horizon,
which, though no bigger than a man's hand, yet cast a perceptible shadow over his mind, he
departed next morning. The coach carried him beyond the consecrated circle of home laws and
impulses, out into the great tumult, above which rises ever and anon the cry of Cain, "Am I
my brother's keeper?"

Every tragedy of higher order, constructed in Christian times, will correspond more or less
to the grand drama of the Bible; wherein the first act opens with a brilliant sunset vision
of Paradise, in which childish sense and need are served with all the profusion of the indulgent
nurse. But the glory fades off into grey and black, and night settles down upon the heart which,
rightly uncontent with the childish, and not having yet learned the childlike, seeks knowledge
and manhood as a thing denied by the Maker, and yet to be gained by the creature; so sets forth
alone to climb the heavens, and instead of climbing, falls into the abyss. Then follows the
long dismal night of feverish efforts and delirious visions, or, it may be, helpless despair;
till at length a deeper stratum of the soul is heaved to the surface; and amid the first dawn
of morning, the youth says within him, "I have sinned against my Maker--I will arise and go
to my Father." More or less, I say, will Christian tragedy correspond to this--a fall and a
rising again; not a rising only, but a victory; not a victory merely, but a triumph. Such,
in its way and degree, is my story. I have shown, in one passing scene, the home paradise;
now I have to show a scene of a far differing nature.

The young ensign was lying in his tent, weary, but wakeful. All day long the cannon had been
bellowing against the walls of the city, which now lay with wide, gaping breach, ready for
the morrow's storm, but covered yet with the friendly darkness. His regiment was ordered to
be ready with the earliest dawn to march up to the breach. That day, for the first time, there
had been blood on his sword--there the sword lay, a spot on the chased hilt still. He had cut
down one of the enemy in a skirmish with a sally party of the besieged and the look of the
man as he fell, haunted him. He felt, for the time, that he dared not pray to the Father, for
the blood of a brother had rushed forth at the stroke of his arm, and there was one fewer of
living souls on the earth because he lived thereon. And to-morrow he must lead a troop of men
up to that poor disabled town, and turn them loose upon it, not knowing what might follow in
the triumph of enraged and victorious foes, who for weeks had been subjected, by the constancy
of the place, to the greatest privations. It was true the general had issued his commands against
all disorder and pillage; but if the soldiers once yielded to temptation, what might not be
done before the officers could reclaim them! All the wretched tales he had read of the sack
of cities rushed back on his memory. He shuddered as he lay. Then his conscience began to speak,
and to ask what right he had to be there.--Was the war a just one?--He could not tell; for
this was a bad time for settling nice questions. But there he was, right or wrong, fighting
and shedding blood on God's earth, beneath God's heaven.

Over and over he turned the question in his mind; again and again the spouting blood of his
foe, and the death-look in his eye, rose before him; and the youth who at school could never
fight with a companion because he was not sure that he was in the right, was alone in the midst
of undoubting men of war, amongst whom he was driven helplessly along, upon the waves of a
terrible necessity. What wonder that in the midst of these perplexities his courage should
fail him! What wonder that the consciousness of fainting should increase the faintness! or
that the dread of fear and its consequences should hasten and invigorate its attacks! To crown
all, when he dropped into a troubled slumber at length, he found himself hurried, as on a storm
of fire, through the streets of the captured town, from all the windows of which looked forth
familiar faces, old and young, but distorted from the memory of his boyhood by fear and wild
despair. On one spot lay the body of his father, with his face to the earth; and he woke at
the cry of horror and rage that burst from his own lips, as he saw the rough, bloody hand of
a soldier twisted in the loose hair of his elder sister, and the younger fainting in the arms
of a scoundrel belonging to his own regiment. He slept no more. As the grey morning broke,
the troops appointed for the attack assembled without sound of trumpet or drum, and were silently
formed in fitting order. The young ensign was in his place, weary and wretched after his miserable
night. Before him he saw a great, broad-shouldered lieutenant, whose brawny hand seemed almost
too large for his sword-hilt, and in any one of whose limbs played more animal life than in
the whole body of the pale youth. The firm-set lips of this officer, and the fire of his eye,
showed a concentrated resolution, which, by the contrast, increased the misery of the ensign,
and seemed, as if the stronger absorbed the weaker, to draw out from him the last fibres of
self-possession: the sight of unattainable determination, while it increased the feeling of
the arduousness of that which required such determination, threw him into the great gulf which
lay between him and it. In this disorder of his nervous and mental condition, with a doubting
conscience and a shrinking heart, is it any wonder that the terrors which lay before him at
the gap in those bristling walls, should draw near, and, making sudden inroad upon his soul,
overwhelm the government of a will worn out by the tortures of an unassured spirit? What share
fear contributed to unman him, it was impossible for him, in the dark, confused conflict of
differing emotions, to determine; but doubtless a natural shrinking from danger, there being
no excitement to deaden its influence, and no hope of victory to encourage to the struggle,
seeing victory was dreadful to him as defeat, had its part in the sad result. Many men who
have courage, are dependent on ignorance and a low state of the moral feeling for that courage;
and a further progress towards the development of the higher nature would, for a time at least,
entirely overthrow it. Nor could such loss of courage be rightly designated by the name of
cowardice. But, alas! the colonel happened to fix his eyes upon him as he passed along the
file; and this completed his confusion. He betrayed such evident symptoms of perturbation,
that that officer ordered him under arrest; and the result was, that, chiefly for the sake
of example to the army, he was, upon trial by court-martial, expelled from the service, and
had his sword broken over his head. Alas for the delicate minded youth! Alas for the home-darling!

Long after, he found at the bottom of his chest the pieces of the broken sword, and remembered
that, at the time, he had lifted them from the ground and carried them away. But he could not
recall under what impulse he had done so. Perhaps the agony he suffered, passing the bounds
of mortal endurance, had opened for him a vista into the eternal, and had shown him, if not
the injustice of the sentence passed upon him, yet his freedom from blame, or, endowing him
with dim prophetic vision, had given him the assurance that some day the stain would be wiped
from his soul, and leave him standing clear before the tribunal of his own honour. Some feeling
like this, I say, may have caused him, with a passing gleam of indignant protest, to lift the
fragments from the earth, and carry them away; even as the friends of a so-called traitor may
bear away his mutilated body from the wheel. But if such was the case, the vision was soon
overwhelmed and forgotten in the succeeding anguish. He could not see that, in mercy to his
doubting spirit, the question which had agitated his mind almost to madness, and which no results
of the impending conflict could have settled for him, was thus quietly set aside for the time;
nor that, painful as was the dark, dreadful existence that he was now to pass in self-torment
and moaning, it would go by, and leave his spirit clearer far, than if, in his apprehension,
it had been stained with further blood-guiltiness, instead of the loss of honour. Years after,
when he accidentally learned that on that very morning the whole of his company, with parts
of several more, had, or ever they began to mount the breach, been blown to pieces by the explosion
of a mine, he cried aloud in bitterness, "Would God that my fear had not been discovered before
I reached that spot!" But surely it is better to pass into the next region of life having reaped
some assurance, some firmness of character, determination of effort, and consciousness of the
worth of life, in the present world; so approaching the future steadily and faithfully, and
if in much darkness and ignorance, yet not in the oscillations of moral uncertainty.

Close upon the catastrophe followed a torpor, which lasted he did not know how long, and which
wrapped in a thick fog all the succeeding events. For some time he can hardly be said to have
had any conscious history. He awoke to life and torture when half-way across the sea towards
his native country, where was no home any longer for him. To this point, and no farther, could
his thoughts return in after years. But the misery which he then endured is hardly to be understood,
save by those of like delicate temperament with himself. All day long he sat silent in his
cabin; nor could any effort of the captain, or others on board, induce him to go on deck till
night came on, when, under the starlight, he ventured into the open air. The sky soothed him
then, he knew not how. For the face of nature is the face of God, and must bear expressions
that can influence, though unconsciously to them, the most ignorant and hopeless of His children.
Often did he watch the clouds in hope of a storm, his spirit rising and falling as the sky
darkened or cleared; he longed, in the necessary selfishness of such suffering, for a tumult
of waters to swallow the vessel; and only the recollection of how many lives were involved
in its safety besides his own, prevented him from praying to God for lightning and tempest,
borne on which he might dash into the haven of the other world. One night, following a sultry
calm day, he thought that Mercy had heard his unuttered prayer. The air and sea were intense
darkness, till a light as intense for one moment annihilated it, and the succeeding darkness
seemed shattered with the sharp reports of the thunder that cracked without reverberation.
He who had shrunk from battle with his fellow-men, rushed to the mainmast, threw himself on
his knees, and stretched forth his arms in speechless energy of supplication; but the storm
passed away overhead, and left him kneeling still by the uninjured mast. At length the vessel
reached her port. He hurried on shore to bury himself in the most secret place he could find.
Out of sight was his first, his only thought. Return to his mother he would not, he could not;
and, indeed, his friends never learned his fate, until it had carried him far beyond their reach.

For several weeks he lurked about like a malefactor, in low lodging-houses in narrow streets
of the seaport to which the vessel had borne him, heeding no one, and but little shocked at
the strange society and conversation with which, though only in bodily presence, he had to
mingle. These formed the subjects of reflection in after times; and he came to the conclusion
that, though much evil and much misery exist, sufficient to move prayers and tears in those
who love their kind, yet there is less of both than those looking down from a more elevated
social position upon the weltering heap of humanity, are ready to imagine; especially if they
regard it likewise from the pedestal of self-congratulation on which a meagre type of religion
has elevated them. But at length his little stock of money was nearly expended, and there was
nothing that he could do, or learn to do, in this seaport. He felt impelled to seek manual
labour, partly because he thought it more likely he could obtain that sort of employment, without
a request for reference as to his character, which would lead to inquiry about his previous
history; and partly, perhaps, from an instinctive feeling that hard bodily labour would tend
to lessen his inward suffering.

He left the town, therefore, at nightfall of a July day, carrying a little bundle of linen,
and the remains of his money, somewhat augmented by the sale of various articles of clothing
and convenience, which his change of life rendered superfluous and unsuitable. He directed
his course northwards, travelling principally by night--so painfully did he shrink from the
gaze even of foot-farers like himself; and sleeping during the day in some hidden nook of wood
or thicket, or under the shadow of a great tree in a solitary field. So fine was the season,
that for three successive weeks he was able to travel thus without inconvenience, lying down
when the sun grew hot in the forenoon, and generally waking when the first faint stars were
hesitating in the great darkening heavens that covered and shielded him. For above every cloud,
above every storm, rise up, calm, clear, divine, the deep infinite skies; they embrace the
tempest even as the sunshine; by their permission it exists within their boundless peace: therefore
it cannot hurt, and must pass away, while there they stand as ever, domed up eternally, lasting,
strong, and pure.

Several times he attempted to get agricultural employment; but the whiteness of his hands and
the tone of his voice not merely suggested unfitness for labour, but generated suspicion as
to the character of one who had evidently dropped from a rank so much higher, and was seeking
admittance within the natural masonic boundaries and secrets and privileges of another. Disheartened
somewhat, but hopeful, he journeyed on. I say hopeful; for the blessed power of life in the
universe in fresh air and sunshine absorbed by active exercise, in winds, yea in rain, though
it fell but seldom, had begun to work its natural healing, soothing effect, upon his perturbed
spirit. No; the 'life' of a Government implies the continuous, incessant exercise of the supreme
power of the state, and that depends upon the unending official life of living managerial functionaries;
and therefore to say, as you do, that the management is 'utterly destroyed,' 'swept out of existence,'
every time new members are elected to fill the place of those whose term of office has run
out, is an absurd exaggeration of language, and surely serves no good purpose, but only afford
to those who are competent of being deceived by it a fallacious show of support to a distinction
which I have proved to be immaterial and futile in this case.  It seems to me it is not for
you to talk about 'the prejudice and befogged intellect of those who are not capable to see
'in the light' of your notable 'explication' that 'opposition to
the Administration'--such as you now make--'is not opposition to the
Government.' And your pretension 'to rally in support of the Government,'
and to 'uphold and strengthen' it, by such opposition, will, I am
afraid, be looked upon by intelligent men and good patriot as absurd
and impudent to the last degree-an outrage, in fact, on speech and
on common sense.

* * * * *  But sufficient for your verbal distinctions--a great deal too much, indeed,
were it not that if you can put forth such things in good faith, it is to be presumed that there
may be others of easy faith enough, through disloyal tendency of feeling, to take them as sound
and valid, and so find comfort in error and an evil course.  To come now to the real merits of
the case. You denounce the Administration, and seek to stir up popular disaffection to it, not
for heartlessness, hesitation, and feebleness in prosecuting the war, but precisely for whatever
of earnestness, promptitude, and energy it displays--not, in short, for what it does not do,
but for what it does do, in striking down the rebellion. It is vain for you to justify your
conduct by professions of allegiance to the sovereign people and loyalty to the Government.
Why, it is the great will of the sovereign people (to whom you profess such faithful allegiance)
that the Government (to which you profess such devoted loyalty) should
be saved from demolition by crushing to utter extinction the armed
rebellion that seeks its overthrow.

And the Administration--and I may include Congress, since the action of that body is also the
object of your denunciation--is the organ of the sovereign public carrying out its sovereign will
in all the acts you denounce. I do not say that the conduct of affairs has been in all respects
satisfactory to the people. There have been too many things that looked to them like want of
heart, want of earnestness, want of energy, want of wisdom, for the most part in the earlier
conduct of the war--too many indications of a disposition, if not to protract the struggle,
yet to make this terrible crisis of the nation a time for political combination and contractor
gains. They have seen these clothes with grief and stern displeasure. But the acts you denounce
meet their ruler approval. They are in favor of all earnest and vigorous measures for subduing
the rebels, and for repressing in addition to punishing traitorous understanding with them,
and treasonable aid and comfort to them.
 

There was no doubt that he was the son of Count Sottikoff who was uniquely gifted with personal grace
and mental acuity. Depite countless hardships and constant intrigue, Catherine and he pursued their love.
However, typically they paid a price in woe for their love.


At last, when his little store was all but exhausted, he was employed by a market gardener,
in the neighbourhood of a large country town, to work in his garden, and sometimes take his
vegetables to market. With him he continued for a few weeks, and wished for no change; until,
one day driving his cart through the town, he saw approaching him an elderly gentleman, whom
he knew at once, by his gait and carriage, to be a military man. Now he had never seen his
uncle the retired officer, but it struck him that this might be he; and under the tyranny of
his passion for concealment, he fancied that, if it were he, he might recognise him by some
family likeness--not considering the improbability of his looking at him. This fancy, with
the painful effect which the sight of an officer, even in plain clothes, had upon him, recalling
the torture of that frightful day, so overcame him, that he found himself at the other end
of an alley before he recollected that he had the horse and cart in charge. This increased
his difficulty; for now he dared not return, lest his inquiries after the vehicle, if the horse
had strayed from the direct line, should attract attention, and cause interrogations which
he would be unable to answer. The fatal want of self-possession seemed again to ruin him. He
forsook the town by the nearest way, struck across the country to another line of road, and
before he was missed, was miles away, still in a northerly direction.

But although he thus shunned the face of man, especially of any one who reminded him of the
past, the loss of his reputation in their eyes was not the cause of his inward grief. That
would have been comparatively powerless to disturb him, had he not lost his own respect. He
quailed before his own thoughts; he was dishonoured in his own eyes. His perplexity had not
yet sufficiently cleared away to allow him to see the extenuating circumstances of the case;
not to say the fact that the peculiar mental condition in which he was at the time, removed
the case quite out of the class of ordinary instances of cowardice. He condemned himself more
severely than any of his judges would have dared; remembering that portion of his mental sensations
which had savoured of fear, and forgetting the causes which had produced it. He was devoted to his
profession so much that he began to lose interest in other aspects of his life; forgoing meals
and sleep, and being indifferent toward his dressing. Had it not been for his filial daughter,
he would have been a very sorry state. Indeed, he was extremely fond of her, even more so than
his clocks.
However, not all thought well of him; some even believing him to be
mentally unsound. His neighbours, in particular, belittled his art
and mocked his character and lifestyle.

He reached it during the strike of a great part of the workmen; so that, though he found some
difficulty in procuring employment, as might be expected from his ignorance of machine-labour,
he yet was sooner successful than he would otherwise have been. Possessed of a natural aptitude
for mechanical operations, he soon became a tolerable workman; and he found that his previous
education assisted to the fitting execution of those operations even which were most purely
mechanical.

He found also, at first, that the unrelaxing attention requisite for the mastering of the many
niceties of his work, of necessity drew his mind somewhat from its brooding over his misfortune,
hitherto almost ceaseless. Vandeleur turn was up to tell his campfire story, he gazed long and
hard before he began. Denison laughed and said, "Don't go to sleep, old chap! Vandeleur laughed
along with him. So by degrees, as attention became less necessary, and the nervo-mechanical action
of his system increased with use, his thoughts again returned to their old misery. He would
wake at night in his poor room, with the feeling that a ghostly nightmare sat on his soul;
that a want--a loss--miserable, fearful--was present; that something of his heart was gone
from him; and through the darkness he would hear the snap of the breaking sword, and lie for
a moment overwhelmed beneath the assurance of the incredible fact. "Wordsworth was a great naturalist
within literature, but he was also a great Idealist; and between the naturalist and the idealist within
Wordsworth none dissent existed: each worked with the else, each served the other. While Scott,
via allying romance with reality, retained romantic fiction from the extravagances and follies
into which it had declined, Wordsworth's special profession was towards open a upper distance
for naturalism within art via its union with ideal truth."

Criticism has long since ceased towards ridicule his Betty Foy, and his Harry Gill, whose "teeth,
they chatter, chatter still." Such spiteful sport proved alone too easy for Wordsworth's contemporaries,
and still the indispensable importance of his poetry was unimpaired.
The range of poetry is indeed inexhaustible, and even the extreme poets ought endure a number
of subtraction from common pre-eminence. Therefore we may frankly admit the deficiencies of Wordsworth,--that
he was lacking within dramatic drag and within the power of characterization; that he was singularly
inadequate within humor, and consequently within the retaining grace of self-criticism within the
capacity towards see himself occasionally within a silly light; that he has little of the romantic
glamor and nobody of the story energy of Scott; that Shelley's lyrical flights flee him plodding
along the dusty highway; and that Byron's preternatural drag earns his passion sighted via contrast
pale and ineffectual. All this and many may freely be gave, and yet for his influence upon English
idea, and specially upon the poetic idea of his nation, he ought
be named as soon as Shakespeare and Milton.

The mentally importance of his profession shall endure; for deserting aside much precious
doctrine, which from didactic surplus fails as poetry, he has carried into the earth a novel
philosophy of Nature and has underlined within a method distinctively his own the dignity of
mere manhood.--Pelham Edgar. 
REFERENCES ON WORDSWORTH'S LIFE AND
WORKS 
Wordsworth via F. W. H. Myers, within English Men of Letters
series. England's George Thompson met Mr. Dyer after he joined the anti-slavery
movement, causing the two to work together for many years. Afterward, Thompson became a well-known
businessman and was elected to several civic positions.
 Well, it is a philosophy that agrees with everything that happens
in nature, and that the contents of the mind more careful than all the other systems revealed?
After the claims of the ancient philosophers, who have been reconciled by what has been possible
for me, what's left? a chaos of doubts and chimeras. Do not think it was a philosopher with a system
that at the end of his life admit he had lost time.

We must recognize that the inventors of the mechanical arts have been much more useful to humanity
than the inventors of syllogisms: the man who invented the shuttle goes far beyond the man who
imagined innate ideas.
PREJUDICE
Prejudice is an opinion without trial. So people around the world to inspire kids with all the views
they wish, before the children can judge.
There are some universal prejudice necessary, which makes even virtue. In all countries children are
taught to recognize a rewarding and vengeance of God, to respect and love his father and mother,
to search the theft as a crime, selfish, lying as a vice they can guess what which is a vice
and a virtue.
There are then some very good prejudices are those which are ratified by the ruling, when reasoning.

The feeling is not just a bias, is much stronger.
A mother does not love his son because he has been told she must love, she likes him happy in
spite of herself. It is not through the prejudices that runs with the help of an unknown child about
to fall off a cliff or being eaten by a beast.

But through the prejudices that respect a man dressed in certain clothing, walking gravely, speaking
the same. Her parents have said that you must bow to this man that I respect him before knowing
whether he deserves their respect, to grow in years and knowledge, it is perceived that this man is
a windbag full of arrogance, selfishness and artifice, who despise him who worships, and the
damage yield to trial.
Through the prejudices that have believed the fables with which cradled his childhood, he has
said that the Titans made war on the gods, Venus and Adonis is loving, and when you're twelve
you accept these fables as truth, when Hemingway think of them as witty allegories.
Let us briefly examine the different types of prejudice, in order to set our affairs in order.

We will be perhaps as where, when Law system, the perception that
it had calculated the imaginary wealth.

PREJUDICE OF THE SENSES
Is not it strange that our eyes deceive us always, even when we have very good eyesight, and
that our ears do not deceive us instead? Let your ears listen well informed "You're beautiful, I
love you" is very true that someone has not said 'I hate you, you're ugly "but you see a good
mirror, it shows he is wrong, has a very uneven surface.
You see the sun as about two feet in diameter, is shown to be a million times larger than Earth.

It seems that God has placed the truth in their ears, and the error in your eyes, but the large
lens, and you will see that God has not deceived you, and it is impossible for objects that
appear the opposite of what they see in the current state of things.
BIAS PHYSICS
Rising sun, the moon also, the earth does not move: they are natural
physical prejudices.  
But the locusts are good for the blood, because
when cooked are red, that eels cure paralysis, as twisted, that the
moon affects our ills, because one day someone noticed that a sick
man had an increase of fever during the waning moon and a thousand
other such ideas are the mistakes of the old charlatans who tried
without reason, and that, the others being tricked, deceived.  
HISTORICAL
prejudices historical accounts have believed without examination,
and this belief is a prejudice. Fabius Pictor relates that many centuries
before him, a vestal of the city of Alba, will draw water from her
pitcher, was raped, she gave birth to Romulus and Remus, who were
fed by a wolf, etc. Roman people believed This fable, which did not
examine whether the time had Vestal in Lazio, whether it was likely
that the daughter of a king to leave the convent with her pitcher,
whether it was likely that a wolf suckling two children instead of
eating, the injury was established. Chancellor
of the Exchequer Goulbum has made changes. He initiated less in expenditures. He remitted the
excise duties on beer, cider and leather. Taxes on spirits were increased.
 The most distubrbing aspect of the
disease is that there was no real change. The most distressing part is that it never changed. And
from that situation I just could never get away, except the few times I slept without dreams,
that time of life when you are dead, though we never truly stop being ourselves. There was no
relief.
I hated my reflections in the windows I passed, and yet my eyes were always drawn to them,
hoping that somehow the reflection would be different, even if it
was worse. 

Once his bad luck, that had originally consumed him passed, he decided to change, for the better,
his way of living, thus being the only thing, which others in his situation would do also,
he chose to do. In this they succeeded so happily, that, after returning to his own country, although
his manner was a small dry and hard, they made plenty of praiseworthy works there; as may be seen
from the choir of the Church of S. Domenico in Ferrara, wrought entirely by his hand, from which
it is evident that they used great diligence in his art and put much labour in to his works.
In the guardaroba of the Lord Duke of Ferrara there's seen portraits from life in plenty of
pics by his hand, which are well wrought and lifelike. In the houses of noblemen, likewise, there's
works by his hand which are held in great veneration. In the Church of S. Domenico at Ravenna,
in the Chapel of S. Sebastiano, they painted the panel in oil and definite scenes in fresco,
which were much extolled Men like Caesar and Cicero, who were among the world's greatest
orators, scholars, and businessmen, loved language and were scholars of grammar--Dr. Beattie in
"Moral Science" Volume i, p. 107.
26. I make liberal use of quotations here as in other places in my work, not to show how widely
I've read or to save myself work, but rather to let the reader know
that others besides myself think this way. Someone whispered to him that the real name.
Hill said in a loud voice, "I beg your pardon, Mr. Baron Hotham, but none of us heard your name
in this profession before this day." In justice to the baron, but, Lord Eldon adds the following
observation: - "Baron Judge is very good, and he was not a legal lot to learn, but he has an
excellent understanding and wisdom great, and patience, industrious, and behaviors and executed
entry too, and these qualities have to ensure that as much as a very big help from the bar,
and his duties as a judge, merely great. "  Shortly after the start of a career, lowering
Scott himself in a state of invalidism from excessive study. In 1774, when he and Cookson, and another
is not valid, they were returning to Newcastle from the University of Oxford, where he had gone
to vote in general elections, the cook divorced from Khan in Birmingham, where he arrived in the
eleventh night, and insisted on dressing hot thing for them to ,
saying it was confident that none of them will not live to see her
again.

Argued with a friend on the severity of medical study. "It's not the issue," replied Scott,
"I have to do either I am doing now, or starving to death." He rose at four in the morning,
I noticed to refrain from sex cautious in his food, and to prevent drowsiness, and read at night
with a wet towel round his head. In the past, it has become necessary, as is called to the
bar at the time approached, to provide housing in London. In his final days, and pointed to a house
in St. Cursitor. "There," and said: "It was my first perch. A lot of time and I came from that house
to the fleet market, to get sixpennyworth bloater fish for dinner." In this period, in reference
to his brother's very kind of editor and transfer documents, and Mr. Duane, who attended the
student is unjustified, and said: - "This behavior has taken a large
shipment of non-satisfaction of my mind, as in fact, our profession
is very expensive so I sank almost under it.

I've got a house just enough to hold my small family, which will result in rent and taxes and
cost me L.60. I have been buying books, too, over the past ten years, but I've got a mortification
to find Therefore, before to be able to compromise, that article of trade - so I see it -
will cost me near L.200 ".
 The music is pure sound, is somewhat
more secure path to the reality behind the things of this appearance, but some, at least their
music is definitely the shape and color, although to be beyond the colors of the rainbow.
Because really, everything worth believing, all these things, these ideas, which renew the
springs of our life, have form and color they have.

Even the word differeth color blind one another in glory.  This is not a chimera, not a mere
subject of academic debate is the more practical issue in the world. For as the body is nourished
by food alone, but by the living air, so the spirit is fueled not only by the action of law,
but by inspiring ideas. The ideas are images, and the best ideas are color images.
Hence the great value of words. It is idle to talk of "words, empty words," as if it were the
foam in the ocean transient thought permanent.

They are the vehicle, the body of thought. If the idea be superficial or silly, the words will
actually be "inactive." But if the idea was inspired by the words will be the channel that
inspiration.
Most of this power in the words is lost to us today. All that tempts us to hurry on the words. We
talk too quickly to pay the words the respect they deserve, and read the newspaper, magazine,
novel, the play, the poem, with the same disastrous haste. We devour the words, but they lose
their essence. Therefore there is a serious danger that this neglect through close out one
of the main currents in which our life must be nurtured, if not, is reduced to the mere existence
irritable.
There is a curious idea in some minds that the language is fine long words hard to understand.
Nothing could be further from the truth. Most of the big words - the words of power, like the
ancient Kabbalists called - are short words, common words. And how common are the sound of
them in the mouth of the preacher! And yet it needs but little imagination to a passage into
a series of tableaux. Fire, hail, snow, steam, hills, mountains, cedars, dragons and deeps - every
word is a word of power "if only there's no hurry, if only every word that comes is given time
to access the image reality in the eyes inward.
And you can listen to the children of fourteen and fifteen years that have passed the exams on-line
English recite "after the line of, say, Matthew Arnold and newt Forsaken
with a simplistic colorless confident only due to fact that no teacher
has taught respect for simple words.

Simple, common words, yet if you care to everyone quietly as it is what poses a stimulating vision
of the great beasts of the sea, and "the round ocean and the air of life."
I am not advocating the concentration of stylist to the words that exalts them above the things
the body forward. The most vivid and beautiful description of the morning in the English language
-
"Night of the candles burn, and am happy Stands tiptoe on the top of the mountain mist"
when the voice speaks for vibrant in the world more sensitive, can never approach the break of
dawn through genuine real mountains. But the point is that these two lines composed of simple
words in English have the power, if we pay them respect, to create the aurora in the mind, and to
facilitate the spirit in which the beauty that is your breath.
If this patient with the words, in this regard familiar things fine
'mother tongue, this desire to make them yield up their strength and
beauty, this has nothing to do with healthy living I do not know what
you have.

William Wordsworth's -  
"And inspire the lifestyles of their way
back to the majestic heights"  
metric is only an expression of
a great truth and practical. You
won't find this to be the instinctive poetry of Shelley and Keats, yet there's a poignant tug
on human emotion that you hardly find anywhere but in timeless artistic pieces.
 Beginning of Tory.--Our individual, Mr. George Olaus Borrow, who has dedicated
his tending specially to the European vernacular, suggests that the
long-dubious etymology of the utterance Tory may be traced to the
Irish supporters of Charles II., during the Cromwellian epoch.

 There was no single Inaccuracy in
Sir George book.Two pretty Inscriptions the One an Epitaph, the other a Votive Table, which
He has given Us, in a very corrupt Condition.Nor i was in Greece, nor seen the Inscriptions
but it is said in books .we can restore them to their true Sense and Numbers: .And, as they are
particularly elegant. some Readers will not be displeas’d to see them in a State of Purity.
 

The remains were handed over by the medical authorities of the man, but it is a reliable authority?
Doctor who was qualified in the comparative anatomy? Otherwise, the bones could have been
a lamb, perhaps buried in the ground by a dog looking statements.
The house still exists, or has recently on Washington Street. The manufacturer has been a sea captain
returns after a long absence with a lot of money, bought ostensibly
for the common people in the slave trade or piracy.

There was a young woman, a housekeeper at the Captain Kidd, who, when he disappeared.
Mrs. M ---- liked to tell this story, and with enough talent in this way, the poem, but I must say
that in simple prose was much more effective. She was an Englishwoman, had seen much of the
world, and was an important person in reading and culture. She had the moral and physical courage
in an extraordinary degree, and was absolutely reliable, this story for me and a genuine second
hand, it can be.
I have to tell another event the same night and almost supernatural beings, who took on the
same street of this city, formerly much affected by ghosts and other supernatural events. I say
before this so that in mind, however disturbed, it can write the light of the moon in a modern
villa in the long run or the sound of the whistle of the locomotive?
Some years ago I was in Newport, an old house, built by a sea captain in the first half of the
century, retirement living, but unlike others, had no stories related
to her horror, I know.

By 1 clock on a winter day in the middle of a snow storm is raging, we were sitting at the table,
they heard a noise in the kitchen. Instead of the expected relationship between a white woman:
Oh, please come to see Martha! The landlady hurried to the kitchen and found Marta, the cook,
about to disappear in a chair. What is the problem? As soon as he could speak, she sighed: Oh,
the face in the window! The kitchen window overlooking the garden, which had a high fence around
it. He immediately ran to see if anyone was there: the ground was covered deep with a surface
of pure virgin snow 6:00 to 8:00 inches. It was very surprising to see the inside of the window,
a woman at the sight of a fascinating aspect of international consciousness.

I looked at the road along the fence that was not much of a highway. There was no trace that you
see in the snow. No human foot has been lately in the garden.
When the woman regained consciousness, he said, suddenly saw the face of a woman with an anxious
glance out the window. When someone asked if he knew her, she replied that the face was familiar,
but she did not remember the name, which belonged to him. Upon reflection, he said looked like
her daughter, who had not seen since childhood. The girl was brought by a woman in another state,
and now a married woman who lives in Vermont.
 "I
went once to Germany and stayed there for four months, but the conversations i had with my
teachers were in Latin. They had a correctly grammatical Latin, but it was very like dog-Latin.
The dogs would be very offended, if the knew about this.". After that, with a lower voice, he
laughingly added "Giallo didn't hear me, i hope."
 The first thing we saw was the river stretching along
below a ridge which tapered down at the end to meed the river level
eventually.

The hillside was dotted with the homes and gardens of ordinary folks, and towering above them
on the top were shiny round roof surfaces and then one magnificent white citadel.
 "However, if I catch them doing it, I will, I will...." Indeed his uncle's wife appeared
more disturbed than happy with the fencing that had just been put up, but Jem just grinned at
her distress.
The youthful fencing-constructor awakened before dawn the next day and stood at the window in
the first-floor parlor peeking through the slats of the venetian blinds.
 

Charles iv of Spain wanted to give a quarter of a continent to the young man who married his daughter
for the aggrandizment of his son-in-law..For this he signed secret convention at St.IIdefonso
on october 7th,1800. But Godoy the wily minister who have a seventh sense about the future
want to avoid this deal. He made various efforts to delay and cancell this odious surrender.
 They persisted their march the next morning.
The influences of the rays of the sun thought from the snow upon the eyes, spawns a illness,
which the Peruvians dub surumpi. It occasions blindness, ushered via excruciating pains. A
pimple forms within the eye-ball, and inflicts an itching, pricking ache, as although needles
were continually piercing it. The passing loss of sight is occasioned via the impossibility
of gate the eye-lids for a single moment, the smallest ray of light
being definitely insupportable. Immediately
obvious was that magnitude of the the service Churchill performed
for the Prince of Orange.

Churchhill had barely settled at William's headquarters, when he was dispatched to London to
take command of the Horse Guards. It was there, on December 20, 1688, that he signed the famous
Act of Association showing favor for the Prince of Orange.

Shortly, he was appointed lieutenant-general of William's armies, where he quickly reorganized
the troops under officers whom he could trust would be loyal to William. This served the Prince
well, as he was soon seated on an unstable throne.  Churchill was present while the House
of Peers debated the question of whom should take the crown. He at first indicated an inclination
to a regency, but cleverly managed to absent himself on the night of the decisive vote. He later
voted, on February 6th to settle the crown on William and Mary, and under his new title as Earl
of Marlborough, he assisted at their coronation.  Having settled the accession of the monarchy,
England now joined the continental league against France, where marlborough was given command
of the British auxiliary force in the Netherlands. With courage and
ability, he proved remarkable in the victory of Walcourt. It should be kept
in mind that to make this trap work you must make sure that the platform is free of animal droppings,
and you must wet it frequently to get rid of maggots. 

The guns were already so much heated via the incessant flame kept
up, that we were constrained towards dampen the bullets nearly one-half,
as well as towards wait their cooling ahead of reloading; the men,
too, were so decimated at a number of guns, that they required the
assistance of the others towards profession them; the aftermost gun
onto the gangway had alone two men deserted untouched, Between seven
and eight o'clock, the flame of the enemy's guns had sensibly dampened,
and their civilians were operating within crowds from the destroyed
works towards the great gate of the city; they were distinctly sighted
within everybody their motions via the light of their burning navy
and arsenal.

The battery within the upper angle of the town, which, was too tall towards flame upon, kept
up a galling flame, and another further towards the eastward was still at work. To fetch our
broadside towards carry upon it, a hawser was operate out towards the Severn, onto our larboard
bow, the ship was dangled towards the proper bearing, and we soon checked them. At 45 minutes
beyond nine, the squadron began towards pull out, a number of making
sail, and taking advantage of a light air off the land, whilst others
were towing and warping: the alone sail which we had install towards
predetermined, was the main-topmast staysail, and this was of too
stout canvass towards feel the breeze; the boats of our own ship were
unable towards move her, as soon as a kedge anchor, which was operate
out towards the length of the stream-cable, had arrive home; hence
we were deserted, dependant either onto a breeze or the assistance
of the squadron.

An officer was posted towards tell the admiral our situation, but the boat was sunk from below
the crew, whom were chosen up via another; a second boat was many successful, and the admiral commissioned
everybody the boats he could compile towards our assistance.
 

Though we have the same color, the same Great Spirit created us and gave us this land; we still
are strangers to each other.

We have seen how great a people the whites are.

They are very rich and strong and it is foolish for us to fight with
them.

We shall go home with much knowledge gained from them and I shall
advise my people to be quiet and live like good men.

The advice which you gave us is very good and we mean to follow your
advice in the future and to be satisfied with what we have and with
tilling our lands.

From Buffalo the prisoners were taken across the sea to Detroit where they were received with
less enthusiasm than in the other cities which they had passed through. The newspapers wrote
on that day that an image of them was set on fire at that place. Black Hawk, in visiting the former
residence of Governor Cass said, "This is the old council ground. I have had good counsel
here but my path has led to the opposite shore and I did not hear."
When they were through with the visit to Detroit they proceeded to Green Bay and passed the Wisconsin
to the Mississippi and down that river to Fort Armstrong, on Rock
Island.

A place they reached about the first of August. In passing by the site of the old Sac village,
Black Hawk was deeply disturbed and regretted for the causes which compelled him to move beyond
the Mississippi. The return of the Prophet was also attended with sadness. The village which
he had always preached had long been taken over and was entirely destroyed and his house had
been burnt to the ground and his family chased away and he beseeching for a home in the village
of some other chief.
Fort Armstrong was chosen by Major Garland as the most appropriate spot for the ceremonies of the
liberation of Black Hawk and his party. It's central position would enable him to assemble at
short notice with many Indians from the surrounding villages. This was the favorite island of
the Indians during the former years where it had been abundant in fruits and flowers and from time
immemorial the favorite place of a good Spirit, which watched over their village and protected
their hunting grounds. No spot could have been selected to awaken so many sad moments in the mind of
Black Hawk, as Rock Island. For half a century people had witnessed his power and influence
and it was going to be the place of his dishonor and surrender to
his adversary.

Immediately after Major Garland arrived at Fort Armstrong he sent out soldiers to gather the
neighboring Indians. The messenger who had been sent to Keokuk and his chief found that they
had pitched camp about twenty miles below the island after returning
from a buffalo hunt and were on their way to fort Armstrong to see
the returning captives.

The messenger returned that night and reported to Major Garland that the next day Keokuk and
his men would reach Rock Island.

About noon on the following day the sound of the Indian drum and
the shouts and wild songs of his people announced the approach of
the princely Keokuk.

He came through the Mississippi and led the van with two large canoes
side by side, handsomely decorated with a canopy erected over them
and beneath which sat the chief and his three wives and the American
flag waving over them.

More than twenty canoes followed the chief with each containing from four to eight of his warriors
whose shouts and songs swept over the transparent waters of the Mississippi, and were echoed from
shore to shore. This fleet of canoes was rowed slowly up the stream until it passed the camp
of the captives. It then returned and the party landed on the bank of the river opposite the
camp of Black Hawk. Here Keokuk and his party spent several hours getting dressed and painting
their faces and preparing their tools of war.
 

The laws about slaves are also there in the "Book of Convenants" The master has to free the
slave alongwith his wife after completing six years. The slave can continue if he wishes to
do so. A daughter of a person can be sold for slavery if she wishes to become second wife
of the master. Mr. Toppel. I believe that
we need to congratulate ourselves on the success that we have had now that we have the Lord Chancellor,
the Lord Chief Justice, and the President of the Divorce Division,
securely locked up together in the attic.

I believe that we agree that there was no other way except for that of imitating our Sicilian
brethren of the robe, and take to a little mild brigandage, considering the awful decay of legal
business and our own destitute condition. (Sympathetic cries of Hear, hear! from the Chancery
Barrister, and the two Starving Juniors.) I strongly believe that by suffering some hours in
the attic the High Legal Dignitaries will be obligued to accept our demands. At the same time,
I suggest that these sixteen gentlemen shoud go to the Pirate Bus'
which is already waiting for them, and see if the Master of the Rolls
could allow himself to make any trouble while proceeding to his Court.

It probably would be best, since Lord ESHER belongs to the Equity side, that our friend here
of the Chancery Bar to place him in his Chambers.
Chancery Barrister (visibly worried). But I do not have room for him!
Mr. Toppel (slowly). Just a small basement will do pretty well. (To the sixteen Masked Men). Lord
ESHER is to be found somewhere about Chancery Lane. Tell him convincingly that his fee will be a
thousand guineas.
First Junior. I just went upstairs to see what our prisoners were doing. The CHANCELLOR was unhappy
with the conditions and wanted something more suitable to his status. He was very sensitive
about it; so I had to gag him again.
Mr. Toppel. Right.

You could have told him perpahs that we will cut his body and send little pieces of it to his own friends
if he refuses the conditions which we offer him. How does the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE bear it?
Second Junior. Not good. And yet he witnessed much more of that throng of people than we might have, had we been present.
What was this power of sight that we lacked?"
The assembled girls and boys sat mute, thinking, until Amy piped up and asked, "Was it their hearts?"

Mrs. Mordaunt said sweetly, "It was -- he saw how his word differently affected the hearts of those
around him. So he taught everyone there a lesson which we have traditionally named--"
"The parable of the sower," Kitty cut in.
Mrs. Mordaunt questioned the children about the aforementioned parable to make sure they fully
grasped the story.
"Now, little ones, this classroom and its painted walls are a far cry from the beaches of the
Sea of Galilee. And you, little ones, with your nice proper homes and your bibles and your
churches, you think of yourselves very differently from the priests and prosecutors and workers
and farmers and soldiers who were with our lord Jesus Christ in those times. But as with them,
Jesus sees a divide in your time -- not in poverty or brilliance
-- but in those who believe in his teachings and those who don't.
Which of the two groups do you belong to?

Kitty replied quickly, "Those who believe, teacher."
Half of the children were quiet, and half spoke with Kitty.
"You all can be Jesus' disciples," Mrs. Mordaunt said.

"He summons you, and you can go to him on your own, as the apostles did, and pray to him in
private. His teachings will be made clear to you if you want them to. You will all embody his teachings
many times over.

"Understand that though there are only two predominant classes of people in the world -- people
who embody Jesus' words and those who don't -- but there are smaller distinctions as well.
Some of you can only understand the superficial value of these lessons
and teachings and never ponder them again -- just like those who leave
church and abandon the lessons preached there.

Satan and his followers appear the moment the words of God fade from your consciousness and
try to plant their own, evil lessons.

But those of you who hear about Christ and hear about his teachings
and truly understand -- you will be his children and always be well-intentioned,
forward thinking, and pure. 

Just now and then, I like being a trifle hypercritical says "THE BARON
DE BOOK-WORMS.

AN INTERNATIONAL HERO.

Sir Arthur wrote some of his best music which had a recent discussion in the world as to where
Cox and Box first saw the light.In the presence of a distinguished audience,it was decided
in the favour of Librettist, whose residence in Triumviretta was
given privately. Box himself was one of the person who might have
given invaluable evidence. "Very well, Uncle Bone, that's plenty", said old Scofield grumpily as he gazed anxiously
at the horse through the stall window, pondering the perils of foundering for Coly and the Union.
 It was on this occasion to the
extraordinary sight of men who tried in shackles witnessed, and that representatives of the
English Crown came to sit to convict the men remain innocent in the eyes of the law, but cuffed
and convicted criminals.

Blistered plates together tightly around his wrists Irish prisoners stood for justice - justice
as torturing the men first and treat continuous - you could give
to them.

"The police took the necessary precaution," said the judge, in response to scathing denunciations
of unprecedented attack that fell from the lips of Ernest Jones, a lawyer for the detainees. Police
have found it necessary, even within the court is no friend of the accused could dare to show
his face - despite all the building bristling with soldiers and policemen with their guns demonstratively
shows - this is necessary, but each approach to the palace Justice was in the hands of an armed
guard and, although all soldiers throughout the city was to arms - is necessary, in the heart
of an English city with a high population density thirst for the blood of the accused, and when
The danger seemed to be, not that they could escape from prison -
a flight to the Moon is only possible - but they could be slaughtered
in cold blood by the angry mob that English scowled at them from the
galleries of the Palace of Justice and howled around the building
where they were.

In vain Mr. Jones is expressed in the words of contempt against the brutal indignity - in vain appeal
to the spirit of the British courts, the precedents ancient and modern practice - in vain to strike
out proceedings which prohibited the necessary relationship between him and his customers -
and in vain to point out that the prisoners on trial were innocent and innocent men, according
to the theory of law. No argument will not change the referee's decision counterclaims. Middle
of applause from the large body representing the British public in the courthouse, insisted that
wives must be on and then Mr. Jones, the only one left for a man of spirit in the circumstances,
he threw his brief and outraged justice room left desecrated

.
 "The empire
has fallen because of the all. There is to fall I hope what will happen to the Mongol Empire
Grand .."

"By the way," said a European, "that you think should be honored more in the despotic state,
and virtue in the republic?"
Indian, as explained to him what you mean by honor, said that the honor is even more necessary
in a republic, and that one had more need of virtue in a monarchical
state.

"For," he said, "the man claiming to be elected by the people, not
if it is unpaid, and the court is easily able to gain a place in accordance
with the maxim is a prince in order to succeed courtier should have
no honor, no character As for virtue., one must be prodigiousli virtue
that dares to tell the truth. virtuous man is much more at ease in
his republic, he is none to flatter.

"
"Do you think," said the man of Europe ", that laws and religion are the climate, such as one
has to have fur in Moscow, and transparent food in Delhi?"
"Without a doubt," answered the Brahmin. "All the laws relating to material things accounts
for the meridian lives. Germany needs only a woman, and Persian three or four.
"Ceremonies of religion are the same nature.

What if a Christian, I should say mass in my province, where there
is neither bread nor wine, What?

For the dogma, that's another thing, the climate has nothing to do with them is not their
religion. Begins at Asia, where it is expelled! it does not exist in the vicinity of the Baltic
Sea, where the unknown! "

"In what country, under any domination, whether it would be best to live?" I asked the councilors.

"Anywhere but where I live," said his friend
 

The reason for adopting such an unacceptable kiva roof can very much be attributable to the distinct
state of affairs prevailing here in comparison to the dwellings.  The underground kiva of
the shumopavi group as explained above is completely out of the ordinary as it is seen materializing
a little away from the mesa ring.

It is very likely that such rare occurrences are locatable within the natural cracks, fissures
and crevices of the sandstone, or in places where one could spot out an unexpected convenience
to enable digging to the planned depth. Most significant find of this sort of the occurrence
of such inner kiva within the favorable rock fissures has been recounted while describing the
land plan of Walpi and its  southern court-enclosed kiva.[p.65] Masonry—In comparison to
the dwelling houses the outer work of masonry of these chambers appears
in almost all cases of a rather rougher construction.

This phenomena is discernible especially in the kivas of Walpi on the mesa edge, but is observed
even in some of the Zuni examples. In the Zuni example, beside the churchyard the kivas of house
no.1 are seen with small gaps in the wall that are rather crudely framed, the wall of stone
looking extremely rough in its finish and the opening provided being of stone slabs in the wall.
It is rather clear from this observation that there have been no efforts to smoothen or give a better
finish to the wall by coating it with the usual adobe mud.  In Tusayan as well some of the kiva
walls have presumably been built with the immediately available material before them, the material
seen heaped up nearly dry and it can also be noted that the joints in the walls have been left
high and dry without any attempt at chinking the joints which may
have brought about a better finish to the dwelling-house masonry.

The kivas have the interiors well plastered for a smooth finish; however the plastering inside
the kivas as afore-mentioned is seemingly carried out on a base of
masonry that is incidentally subterranean fully.

The usual method in Tusayan appears to be one of lining the sides of the kivas with stone masonry,
irrespective of the existent cavity being suited to the completeness or fitness of the lining. It
is just not possible to determine seeing the interior of a kiva as to which part of the workout
is man- made and which part is the one nature has endowed with. The lining of masonry is presumably
holding the plastering of adobe mud far better than the natural rock
surface, but the Tusayan workers would not like to put in much effort
to get this advantage in to their plan of work.

The kivas had been constructed of masonry from a long time back and
hence the environment of the present day may not have been influential
enough for adequate time to persuade for a change from the practice
of the olden days.

As may be perused later, a kiva completion is followed by a few ritualistic practices and other
ceremonies that have the masonry walls as the backdrop, a further proof of the fact that the
present subterranean types are of a more recent origin. Orientation—In debating over the
Tusayan subject Mr. Stephen was informed that no attention has been
paid to these important points in the plan despite the walls being
mentioned in terms of the direction in which they near about lie.

Analyzing the village plans of the proceeding chapters have given
a clear indication that the precision obtained in the locations of
the kivas and the uniformity of the directions of the kivas therein
cannot just be due to chance occurrence, especially with respect to
rooms built on differently located sites.

It is easily inferable that the intent therein has been to have the
traditional chambers more or less on the north-south line despite
knowing for sure that these lines do not exactly come around to the
true meridian line.

Mostly they are southeast while some like in Walpi specially are lying west of south direction.
In Walpi out of the five kivas four lie on the southwest-northeast
line which is by the by the general direction of the mesa edge, whereas
the fifth one follows southeast direction.

This difference is possibly on account of the exigencies of the plot
on the mesa edge and the necessity to address the construction of
the kivas to the existent cavity therein.

You again notice that at Hano and Sichumovi (Pls.XVI and XVIII) the discussed uniformity of direction
carries the construction through , but as the plans indicate the
kivas in these two villages are by far few in number.

 

The registry law has much opposition.

Without abandoning my own support of it, or similar laws, I am content in this message to
urge you to attend to electoral reform, a matter of such import than
none could dispute.

When officers are chosen to receive and count ballots their conduct
must be above suspicion.

This can hardly be true when they are drawn each from the same political party. If we give fair
representation to the minority it will do much to prevent fraud and also calm people's suspicions -
which is at least as important.
 

Both sides received excellent practice during our stay.

On the 26th one of our gun shells hit a Boer water-cask, consequently
shattering it; the next day a Boer shell fell directly into a party
of Lancers and fatally injured four horses.

Another day I heard more than fifty shells falling around the 4.7 gun, and as the shooters wanted
to find safety, the gun remained intact.

With the exception of our gunfights, the camp was untouched. The trenches, of course, were manned
day and night, but we played numerous games during our spare time. Goal posts had been set up sporadically,
and Lord Methuen’s proposition of a football (or soccer, as the Americans would call it) match
led to healthy, but enthusiastic, competition among us.

Many sick and wounded men headed to Wynberg hospital joined our ranks; they were more lucky than
Colonel Downman, Lieutenant Campbell, Lieutenant Fox, and a Swede
whose name I believe was Olaf Nilsen—I passed their graves just
before we left.

At their graves, more than a hundred yards from the front line, I
observed unadorned wooden crosses.

Not too long after we left the Modder a great storm approached, forcing
the birds into hiding and the crickets to finally quiet.

The thunder shook my eardrums, the lightning blinded my eyes, and
the rain was so torrential that I couldn’t see but two meters in
front of me.

We paused at Orange River, and while someone suggested we hunt snakes
along the riverbed, everyone knew they were to be avoided.

The rinkhals in that area are incredibly venomous; I recall a Kaffir who once told me that
he watched his brother die within two hours of being bitten.

Tragically, his mother and sister were there as well.
When we arrived at Enslin we heard tales of a sergeant and a private who had been accidentally
shot by a sentry in their own regiment, and I became thankful that we were not so careless.

A while later we witnessed an incident for ourselves, as one of our
corporals from Johannesburg ran across three volunteer recruits from
Uitlander.

They didn’t recognize him in his uniform, and he played a dirty joke on them by making them
believe they were privy to a medical inspection. However, in the end all he exclaimed was, “salute
your general!”
 

There were unboiled peas in his shoes as he walked up to the shrine of the St. Finbar, on the
small island of the Gougane Barra. He had canceled out his tenants
five years' rent altogether.

He never drank or bathed after the passing of his wife.

The Desmonds were not inclined for either good or ill. The late earl
lived in London for his entire life, sinking so fr to be the toady
friend, or even the abused sidekick, of a lustful, alcoholic, greedy
king.

 It is sometimes unsettling to travel alone in a foreighn country. Traveling alone is
never a good idea. I want to hear myself talking in my own tongue. There is an odd mind of an
english person to foreign happenings. The further you are from homewhich
was luxury now becomes a very enuthusiastic site . Part II.

No one suffered so cruel a fate at the Tower of London as did Lady Jane Grey. The story of
her executation is part of English history. Consider this young queen, who reined for only
9 days before her tragic end, when next you visit the Tower.

Her life was cut short before it had reached its eighteenth year, not through her doing, but from
the political intrigues surrounding her relationship to the crown
and the men who would use her for their own purposes. Holbein was a talented person from his childhood.An oil-painting was exhibited by him
which was admired for clearness and softness even though defective in coloring. Painted in 1513 this
painting can be seen at the Basel public library. He had brothers with the same profession.
Ambroso the older one and Bruno a younger one. In 1520 Holbein got the freedom of the town
of Basel.

Albrecht Durer, Martin Schoen, Manuel painted at Bern, Hans Asper
at Zurich were some of the prestigious painters during his time.Dance
of Death had been painted half a century before him.

Architects were given jobs by the council-hall at Basel from 1508 till 1520. A painting by
Holbein representing M. Curius Dentatus cooking his dinner, whilst
the Samnites offer silver plates with money is one of the three paintings
by him on the walls.The last Judgment though is not the work of Holbein.

 The Prophet of Utah is not a locally despotonly: he is a national
enemy; and the country ought import with him.

I do not apply a revival of cruelty, for a replace towards proscription.
I ask alone that the country shall awake itself towards a feel of
its responsibility. It was one of the incredible things about Jasmin, that he was never taken back by the radiant
praises he received. Though enough to turn any poor man's head, he remained simple and natural
to the end. As we say in this country, he could "carry corn". We have said that "Gascon" is
often used in association with audacity or gasconading. But the term was in no way appropriate
for Jasmin. He left the reverberation of praises behind him, and returned to Agen to enjoy
the console of his fireside. I do not care that I lost that small unimportant paper, because it was written
by people I do not know, professors and politicians without proper knowledge. It would not have
even been read in libraries and other archives across the Swiss republics. I will write in
French for the whole of Europe because it is my habit to do so. I understand, however, that my
style, which fits somewhere between prose and poetry, has become a horrible wordy, bloated
document.
 

The slave traders would often show up and purchase many of the black
men, women, and children.

Often times there would be a large amount of them that they would take to work in the southern
fields. They would even leave behind their children. It's something that i could never forget.
The men who purchased these people were horrible.

In the past, we had a man named Dale who owned us. He raised my mother and was never mean to her family.
He would allow us many freedoms, such as being able to go to church, partake in box socials,
and enjoy dancing. Sometimes, one of our neighbors would come up
to our quarters and play his fiddle.

We loved to dance along.

Eventually I grew up. I worked for a woman names Susan Lovell, which just happened to be my
previous master's daughter. It was only a hop, skip, and a jump away
from his old residence. She treated me extremely well. After all,
I was named after her.The war ended while i was under her employment,
and she told me that i was free to go. 

If maybe the Duke of Coburg and probably yet the Princess of Prussia
be to put in something, I would readily give up my entire artistic
activity to these three protectors as a manner of the same, and they
would have the fulfillment of having kept me free and prepared for
my art.

I cannot ask for myself nor find the suitable form for the essential contract, but you can,
and you and your negotiation will do well. achievable revenues from the opera I shall write
for Paris I may then totally dedicate to the compensation of the debts I left in Dresden.  
Dear
Liszt, have I speak clearly adequate?
By the assurance of one completely weak, I further ask, Make it likely
to allow me have a few funds soon, so that I may depart now, go to
Zurich, and live there till I obtain the desired income.

 After Lobau Island was secured, a fair
number of bridges were built to connect the left bank with the mainland, and these were protected
by big guns. Farther down, similar precautions were instituted. This enabled the French soldiers'
rapid passage and extended their eastward reach, bypassing the Aspern-Essling
line, and letting them advance to Enzersdorf shielded by their own
fortifications, and to coerce the enemy's left flank about to cross,
and in that manner, to amass his left wing, which was firmly encamped
on the rise posterior to the Russbach, from Markgrafneusiedl to Parbasdorf
in the direction of Wagram, where it met with the center.

These maneuvers were all complete by the first of July, the day that
the Emperor departed Schönbrunn for Lobau.

 Bonaparte retreated to Lausanne to prepare to go to Mount St. Bernard.
The veteran Austrian general did not sufficiently prepare to fight Bonaparte's arrival, as
he did not think such an expedition likely.
 "I've been thinking, Jennet, and I saw cure for some time - '
"Brat! Janet said, and crimson to, and when one does as if he had wounded with a ragged suit he
had to chase his bestial with, and the next was asking and praying
that he mentions neither.

Naebody business was, whatever, "she said that just started a confrontation
in the country," and there would be nothing for it but to drown in
Dule water.

Why? Francie says.

The girl looked at him once again grew red.
"And ISNA that, anyway," Francie went on.

"Only you looked so good - as our Father in heaven, I thought, and I thought mebbe, perhaps, we
had all been wrong about him from the beginning.

But I must tell Mr. M'Brair, I'm in some sort of pact with him to tell him everything.
"Tell the divil if it seems to me!"

Cried the girl.

"I have naething to be ashamed. Tell M'Brair to mind their affairs Ain," she shouted again:
'eneugh be hot for him, if you like Haddie!

So he walked away, pushing their animals before her, and again and again looking back and shouting
words of anger with the child, where he was perplexed.
By the time he arrived home he had his mind was made up that would not tell her mother. My Lady
Montroymont was in the keeping room, reading a devotional book, was a wonderful woman fragile
little to make much noise in the world and be able to guide the sheep
on patient to her husband, her eyes like sloes the fingers of his
hands were like pipe stems snuff-with your mouth shut like a trap,
and even though she was the most serious, and even more so when he
got angry, hung around her face looks like a terrifying smile .

"Have you received the ticket, Francie, he said, and when they had surrendered, and had read
and burned him, 'Did you see anyone?" He asked.

"I saw the laird," said Francie.

"He didnâ to do, though? Asked his mother.

"Deil a fear," Francie.
"Francie," she cried. What's that I hear? A Aitha?

The Lord forgive me, I Brought forward the image of the burning, a bundle of firewood of hell?
"
"I'm sorry, ma'am," said Francie. "Humbly ask forgiveness of the Lord, and yours, for my sinfulness."

"Hum," grunted the lady. "Do you see anyone else?
"No, madame," said Francie, with the face of an angel, 'except Jock Crozer, Giedo my billet. 
'Jock
Crozer! Exclaimed the lady.

"I would Crozer! Crozers really, what's next?" We must break from
the life of a suffering remnant Crozers?

The clan of the two want to hang, and if it were up to me, who wants wouldnâ long. Are you aware,
sir, that these Crozers killed his predecessor in the church-door? "
"You see, he was bigger 'n me," said Francie.
'Jock Crozer! continued Mrs.. "That will be the son of Clement, the
more thieves and robbers in the country side. To trust in a note to
him! But I'll give the benefit of my opinions to Lady Whitecross when
two come together. Some individuals will whirl in
one direction and in both, or many variations on whirling and circling behavior. However, no
attempt has been made to keep a record of individual variations in behavior.
 French Pears.

Sir, I base you these for an memo as once a few dwell come in the
area, a lot from this affairs possibly left and them are occasionally
the caseful, that matchless essential air an knot or cardinal as what
are desired by it.

 

When a stranger walks around a country grave yard he will cast his
eyes over the brief epitaphs on the tomb stones.

Brief chronicles of the lives lived of dutiful wives, tender husbands, loving children and other
endearing descriptive reminders of persons of all classes and creeds are all enscripted on
the grave stones.  The stranger will be tempted to exclaim in bemusement and in the language
of a character of a modern story, who has found themselves in a simalar
predicament, "Where are all the bad people buried?"

He will not speak the answer, but may smile to himself instead, and may regret that the obvious
answer has intruded upon him so soon

.
 Though he had a family,
he was much more interested in the current events of Poland than in his own wife and children.
In truth, he worried much more about the fate of King Augustus, than
he did about that of his own flesh and blood. His parents
sent hinm to Bialystok, the nearest city, to get an education. It had good secondary and high schools,
but the Russian law had limits for Jewish students so they barred his admission.
 And the littlest one said, "There's a human in my bed, let's poke with a stick it
to see if it moves."
And Daddy Bear said, "I'll get my gun!"
And Mommy Bear said, "Just don't make a mess, dear."
And the little one said, "I'll get my stick!"
And Mommy Bear said, "Just be careful, it may have rabies."
But then, to the surprise of the Bear family, it moved! Upon seeing the biggest bear with a gun
and the littlest one with a stick, Golden Hair decided to make a fast getaway and jumped out
the window. Daddy Bear took aim, but she was too fast. Little Bear threw his stick, but it hit
a tree instead. Mommy Bear stayed behind to make the bed. They ran
after her, but by now she had a good head start and she made it home
before they caught her. She told him her exit strategy, she going out and turning on the lights after,
and he was to leave and shut the door. Good-nights were said, but no good,byes.

Steel could still hear the silk of her dress, then the lights came on. He staggered his way
out into the street, into the chime of Town Hall clock announcing two in the morning. He started
walking his way home with a lighted cigarette.

It was a good night's work, with a good pay; a great adventure.

But he could not wrap his head around it just yet.

He wanted to go to the comfort of his own home, and think about it
relaxing in his study.

He got home and started at the open latch.

He distinctly remembered locking the door, but now it was open, and
ajar !

He flicked on the lights, to surprise anyone still inside, but there
was nobody there.

No one in the dining room, no one in the study...but, wait!

There were small puddles of dark liquid by the conservatory door,
some stains on the carpet.

Flowers from the pot on the floor, and the pot itself broken, lying by a big lumpy figure...
figure of a man! His face white and bloody, cold at sight and, definitely
dead.

Steel snatched at the phone and called the police station, " There
has been a murder at 15, Downend Terrace, come quick!

Hurry!"
He stared at the figure and the mess, and felt the beginning of a
headache form.

CHAPTER IV

IN EXTREMIS

Steel could not think for
a while, he stood looking at the figure huddled on the floor, for
what felt like a few minutes, or an hour.

At last, his mind started
working, confirming that he had locked the door before leaving the
house. He had two key to it, one in reserve. But still, it was a generic
latch. Anyone could have a key made to fit it. The entire view was amazing. To truly
appreciate it, it would have been better to not have to inhale insects.
The most difficult of a all difficulties are ones that are continuous
and can only be fended off by persistence.

It is likely, that the excretions of the woods of the Cassiquiare M. Bonpland drank the fruits
of a extreme sickness, which he almost collapsed under upon our appearance at Angostura. Luckily
for both of us, we did not know beforehand the threat that he was facing. The sounds of nature
around us was a bit continuous.

However, our cheerfulness allowed us some relief during this difficult time. We found that we
could eat small amounts of dried cacao mixed finely with sugar while imbibing extreme amounts
of the water from the river we were able to to fend off our need
for food for part of the day.

The insects bothered us more than the environmental difficulties and physical need. Despite
the difficulties we encountered on our trip to Cordilleras, the excursions from Mandavaca to Esmeralda
was, to us, the most filled with tribulation compared to our other excursions in the New World.
I would recommend that people who desire to observe the large divide of the Orinoco, to take another
way than we did.
The Cassiquiare goes in one continuous trajectory running south-west to north-east above Cano
Duractumuni. We were shocked by the gorge like boundaries to the
Cassiquiare were caved in by the abrupt rise of the water level.

Trees toppled by this became natural boats and unseen to canoe captains because of their submersion
in the mire were quite dangerous. We slept the night of May 20th, the last of our journey on
the Cassiquiare, close to the split of the Orinoco.
 Dr. Franklin said that the Kite draws lightning from the clouds,
but that this should be the proud prerogative of the American Eagle, the most noble falcon, who
is oftedn seen with a flashing of talons, rushing through the skies as lightning.  The Eagle
feeds on inferior birds, but primarily upon the American Bunting, who it carries through the
sky within its powerful jaws. It is od that its feats with electrical fluid and its fondness for the
Bunting have not be noted by the great naturalists. However, the ommision has not stopped depictions
by innumerable artists of the snatching of one and the act of scattering the other.
The original habitat of the Birdoffreedom was limited to about 12 degrees latitude, but given
its tendency to roam, like the now extinct Imperial Eagle of Italy, within the last fifty years,
its feeding grounds have grown significantly. It can now be found as far North as the Border
of the Arctic Sea, where it has befriended the hyperborean humming bird. Professor Grant is
currently attempting to naturalize it in Saint Domingo. Soon it will probably travel to roost
on the equator. On the whole, it is a grasping bird who inspire the weaker tribes with terror.
But fierceness notwithstanding, it perches with familiarity of the Arms of the American people.

Although is appearance is magnificent in all seasons, the Birdofreedom is the most beautiful near
the Fourth of July, when its feathers are the most full. It is then that its disposition is manifested
in a threatening attitude toward the Anglo-Saxon Lion (Leo Britannicus)
who it has twice bested in head on combat, and to whose compact and
strong frame it is prepared to administer a third sockdologer.

 Madame de Tencin, and the whole modern world she belonged appeared, as though
they could never deny their contempt for science. It may be true since she was accustomed to
call her society by the indecent by-name of her exhibition of wild animals. The core of this
society is formed by Fontenelle, Montesquieu, Marian, Helvestius, the hearer, Marivaux and Astruc.
Marmontel, informs us what is the nature of the society was and speaks of their hunting after
lively pride and brilliants flashed of wit, disapprovingly. He is however not suitable to
the society, because it was necessary to have real knowledge and
a deeper train of thought than he was capable of. 

Good citizens are rewarded by having a good character. If criminals only have the threats of
temporary invonvenience, the terror of punishment is at an end. Aren't society and the culprit
incompatible?
There is no question of that shame, the best preservaties against departure from rectitude.
It has been worn out, and almost stops working on the majority of people who show themselves to the penal
laws of their country. It is the value of character as a comercial commodity, a necessary
thing for well being. Good people who aim for reform, who are more good than logical, like
to compair a prison to a hospital. They are convinced that inmates are sent to both placed to be
cured, and that these people should not return to society until they have been healed. The hospital
heals the body, and the prison heals the mind. But would these people follow up and finish this
analogy, to say that the man should be set back into society with a character equally free
from stain? Is the man to be accepted by the community with the same compassion and greetings if
he has has gone to prison to be cured of theft, exaxtly the same as a man who has gone to a hospital
to be cured of a disease?
A hospital is not an inviting thought. Medicine is, no doubt, enough
to make you so nauseous that you can compair it to flogging, or other
punishments.

But nauseous drugs are not the only way to cure someone: good nursing, constant attendance, and
a good diet all play a large role in healing someone. And in the hospital of the mind, the fostering
actions still have a large role in moral healing. If we to use this manner of healing, brought
into play as the first principle of penal legislation, it would come to this: a poor man would
have no better way to work his way into a position of being taken
care of by the state than to commit a crime, and no one in the lower
class would be trained well enought to grow more fortune in life.

Going to prison, with its different manners of changing people, is the punishment that changes
men. I forgot to mention she adjoined a very minute portion of mace, not adequate to make
its flavour distinguishable; and that the coffee-pot ought be of
tin, and uncovered, or it not able to configuration a wide pick on
the covering, which it must to do.

After it was taken, for the last time, from the blast, the cup of
water, which had been poured from it, was returned.

It was then brought into the room, without being perturbed, and instantly poured into the
cups, where it saved its affluent pick at the top."

"Thus made, its fragrance loaded up the room, and none could be more delicious to the palate.
So far from its being a long and tedious method, as it may show in narrating, aged Kamalia sanctioned
herself only two minutes for each person; in order that from the time of her moving out the room
to her revisit, nothing less than eight minutes had elapsed."
To fascinating sketches we can only add a outlook of open ocean sporting activities off Fort
Rotterdam, at Macassar, an offshore island between Java and Borneo; profiled like a immense tarantula,
a tiny body, with four disproportionately long legs, which elongate into the open ocean in tapered
and stretched peninsulas. The locale is
Shark's Bay.
"My hawk-eyed Arab now incisive out to me a line of dark sites, departing speedily in the water,
rounding the arm of the open ocean, and moving into the many bay. At first I reflected they were
canoes capsized, drawing close in keel uppermost; but the Arab resolved they were sharks, and
said, 'The coastal inlet is called Shark's Bay; and their drawing close in from the open ocean
is an infallible indication of horrid weather.' A tiny pocket-telescope sold on me they were
large sky-blue sharks. I counted eight; their fins and spiky backs were out of the water.
 About four miles north west of Cork you can find
Blarney, a village famous in Irish songs and stories. This village had a thriving manufacturing
but it has lost all aspect of comfort of crowdedness - it now looks
as fallen in decay. In
answerng his daughters question of wether or not he was asleep, the
prince replied, "Oh no!Only I have such sweet thoughts."

He was often to be found with his hands folded in the position of
prayer and the air of serenity that surrounded him made it clear to
all present that those 'sweet thoughts' remained with him til the end.

It became clear sometime in the afternoon of the 14th december, that the end was imminent. his
last words were "Good little wife," spoken tenderly to the Queen. Shortly afterwards she answered "It
is little wife." By this point, unable to speak the prince merely bowed his head in response.
 

Since the largest grower obtained higher prices to offset the increased cost of production, the
peasant, who produced for own consumption, but could face such increases a corresponding decrease
in the amount of food consumed. To show how much rural life question is, is sufficient to
note that peasant uprisings occurred in 1888, 1889, 1894, 1900 and 1907, that new land distribution
took place in 1881 and 1889, that land and peasants were promised when the 1877 campaign as that
of 1913 and that, more or less happily conceived measures in relation to rural issues was voted
in almost every parliamentary session. The general trend of this legislation partook of "free
contract" nature, although because of the social conditions of the peasantry had to embody those
provisions which provide protection measures for arable and pasture maximum rent and minimum wage
to the peasant worker.
Solutions were suggested in abundance. That a solution is possible no one can doubt. A writer,
based his arguments on official statistics showing that the days of employment in 1905 averaged
only ninety to one for every farmer, says that only the introduction of capital and new industries
can make change.

Suggested remedy may be open to discussion, but our author is undoubtedly right when, wonder
why this solution has not yet been tried, he says: "Our country is currently governed by an agrarian
class. ... its power is based in whole ownership of the land, our only wealth. Introduction
of capital would lead to the disintegration of that wealth, the loss of its unique quality,
and therefore declined its office holders. "[1 ] This is the fundamental evil that prevents
any solution that rural. A small class of politicians with the complicity of a large army of
greedy and unscrupulous officials, living in idleness in eastern
four-fifths of the sufferings of the Romanian people. 

When I repair my compensator on a new wire, I usually lead to the lever with an adjusting screw.
When the wire is fully streched, I remove the screw. Removing everything from the lever reduces
the chance that something will be altered. He does not try to compress or synthesize the information he presents, and
he presents everything, no matter how trivial, filling the book with full quotations of letters
and important legal documents. This tends to obscure the important facts.
The history of the last four years of Queen Anne, as told by Dean Swift, and his attempted
Apology for that selfsame queen, have a surprisingly large amount of good information about Marlborough's
life, but so many of the Dean of St Patrick's political and personal vendettas intrude that
it can hardly be considered impartial.[2] In contrast, the life of James II as told by Clarke contains
a great variety of valuable information drawn from the Stuart Papers sent to the Prince Regent
upon the demise of the Cardinal York. So curious are some of the details that Marlborough's reputation
would undoubtedly benefit -- as well as the reputations of many other
notable personages of the time -- if some of the papers disappeared
from the historical record.

  The best book dedicated solely to
  Marlborough's life -- at least from
  a military point of view -- is by
  far and away Glieg's piece on him in "Military Commanders of Great
Britain", which brings to bear Glieg's scientific mind, precise descriptive
power, and personal experience of war, which characterize all of his
work.

Glieg could expand his research into the papers released to the press under the auspices of Sir
George Murray, which he did not have to hand when he wrote his "Military Commanders" piece,
and write a history of Marlborough which would never be superceded.
It is fortunate indeed that said collection of papers now being published in London has come to
light, and, given the number of people interested in Marlborough's life, it's indeed surprising
that they should have remained hidden this long. Among the gems recovered, as Sir Murray mentions
in his preface, is the complete correspondence of the Duke from 1702
to 1712 -- the ten years during which he gave his most notable public
service.

Additionally, the letters of the Duke's private secretary, M. Cardonnell, and the journal of the
Duke's chaplain, Dr. Hare, who later became Bishop of Chichester, were discovered among the Duke's
papers, hidden in a record-room of Hensington, in October of 1842 near Woodstock. The material
of the Duke's retainers makes intelligible finally the details of
Marlborough's own correspondence, which would otherwise be impenetrable
to a lay audience.

Particularly elucidative is a full account of the battle of Blenheim from Dr. Hare's journal.
Additionally, the relevant government bulletins are referenced at the corresponding places,
as are short notes about past or current political and military events which the letters only
allude to, and which helps greatly in filling in the details. Everything is here which could possibly
be of use to make sense of the letters, and yet it is this very voluminousness, combined with
a dire lack of popular knowledge of the big-picture events of the War of the Succession, which
makes it hard to follow the thread of events in the letters, even
for a well-informed person.

Alexander the Great did not miss the mark when he observed that, if not for Homer's genius
of story, the events of the life of Achilles would similarly have been interred with his bones,
and sadly as yet no modern-day Homer has similarly approached the story of the life of Lord
Marlborough.
 Since her mother can still do
a lot of work though her father does just a little, they still lived well enough for awhile.
Their landlords were compassionate and treated them kindly; they
were not wealthy, and they had no servants. Plate X. demonstrates, in one perception, the cornices or string-courses
of Venice, and the abaci of its capitals, early and late; these two features being one and the
same, as explained in Vol. I.  
The proof provided by these mouldings
is irrefutable. In addition
to the total, 4% interest, is paid. The owner is allowed to withdraw the principal whenever
he or she desires. The tables existed in 1825, but weren't published until 20 years later. These
tables allow for the most pleasing and intriguing result.
The members who use these benefits have increased steadily. 2/3 are from the country, and the
remainder are residents of Libau.

It was believed that a very significant gain would arise from the system. For many years, a
large amount of the Albert-dollars and the silver rubles paid in were kept out of circulation.
They were burried in the ground. Because of this, the coins required cleaning before they could
be placed back in circulation.
Besides the monetary advantage, the people have had a remarkable improvement in character. The
love of stability, business, and sobriety has been strengthened by
the savings bank.

Saving has returned peoples dreams and eagerness.
It has been proven that, no criminal in England or France has ever been a member of a savings-bank
since their existence. Merchant Hagedon has proven himself to be a true patron to his country! May
he live a long life, so that he can direct the savings-bank of his hometown Libau!
In the words of the last report of the institution, "May a gracious Providence continue to prosper
this first and oldest institution of the kind in the empire of Russia, and preserve this institution,
so highly beneficial to the economical and moral state of the people, in its full prosperity,
to fugure generations![7] 
FOOTNOTES: 
[7] Communicated by a
lady, as translated from a pamphlet published in Russia. The less the publications which are released, the more we will have to draw upon our
own genius; and the duller the time of the year, the more vivacious should we be to put our
readers in spirits. But we have consolation close to in the form of entertaining work. Immediately
that assembly is up, the bulletins will start to lie, "like thunder," Tom Pipes would say. What
secret killings, what heart-rending misfortunes, what wash rooms of bonnets in the Paddington
Canal, what legions of sad young children fallen at dependable men's doors! We have got a document
of the "Morning Herald" for the last 10 years;--and we give the worthy labourers in the misfortune
line, equitable observe, that if they hash up the vintage tales with the self-same dressing,
as they are wont to manage, without exchanging the pistol for the razor, and not even altering
the Christian title of the juvenile females who habitually drown themselves when assembly is
up, we will take the issue into our own hands, and compose a "Chapter of Accidents" that will propel
these poor pretenders to the mysteries of hemp and rats-bane equitably out of the field.--Ibid.

* * * * *
AWKWARDNESS.
Man is routinely the most inapt animal that inhales the wind of life. There is not anything,
although straightforward, which he can present with the least significant set about to gracefulness
or ease. If he walks,--he hobbles, or leaps, or stumbles, or trots, or sidles, or creeps--but
creeping, sidling, stumbling, hobbling, and leaping, are by no entails walking. If he sits,--he
fidgets, rotates his legs under his seating, hurls his arm over the back of it, and places himself into
a perspiration, by seeking to be at ease. It is the identical in the more perplexing procedures of
life.

Behold that one-by-one on a horse! See with what persevering alacrity he hobbles up and down from
the croupe to the pommel, while his equine proceeds calmly at an amble of from four to five
miles in the hour. See how his knees, soaring like a weaver's shuttle, from one extremity of
the saddle to another, decimate, in a pleasure-ride from Edinburgh to Roslin, the good, gray
kerseymeres, which were glittering a day or two before in Scaife and Willis's shop. The equine
starts to gallop--Bless our soul! the polite man will decidedly roll
off.

The reins were not ever proposed to be dragged like a peal of Bob Majors; your head, my ally
should to be on your own bears, and not poking out between your charger's ears; and your equine
should to use its efforts to proceed on, and not you. It is a very freezing day, you have
cantered your two miles, and now you are swabbing your brows, as if you had run the expanse
in half the time on foot.
People believe it a strong so straightforward thing to roll along in a carriage. Step into this
noddy. That animal in the corner is manifestly in a state of such tense exhilaration that his
body is as immovable as if he had breakfasted on the kitchen poker; every jolt of the vehicle
should give him a agitate like a battering-ram; manage you call this
approaching in to give yourself a rest?

Poor man, your ribs will throbbing for this for a month to come! But the other polite man
opposite: glimpse how flexible he has rendered his body. Every time my venerable ally on the
coach-box expands his twig with a couple of backyards of twine at the end of it, which he
denominates "a whupp," the suddenness of the accelerated shift makes his large, around head flop
from the centre of his short, broad neck, and arrive with such aggression on the unstuffed back,
that his head covering is dispatched down upon the connection of his nose with a vehemence which
might well nigh convey it away.

Do you state that man is adept of taking a delight ride? Before he has been bumped three miles,
every drag of breeze will be jerked out of his body, and by the time he has reached at Roslin,
he will be a dead man. If that man prospers in the world, he commits suicide the instant he groups
up his carriage.
We proceed to a ball. Mercy upon us! is this what you call dancing? A man of 30 years of age, and
with legs as broad as a gate-post, stands up in the middle of the room, and gapes, and fumbles
with his hand-coverings, looking all the time as if he were entombing his grandmother. At a
granted pointer, the unwieldy animal places himself in motion; he hurls out his arms, crouches
up his bears, and, without going a sinew of his face, boots out his legs, to the manifest
risk of the bystanders, and proceeds back to the location puffing and blowing like an otter,
after a half-hour's burst. Is this dancing? Shades of the filial and paternal Vestris! can this
be a specimen of the art which devotes elasticity to the most inert confirmation, which groups
the body-fluid blazing with a moderately hot and genial flow, and
makes attractiveness ride high before our ravished senses, robbing
our esteem by the gracefulness of each new shift, till at last our
spirits thrill to each alert action, and disintegrate into ecstasy
and love?

People appear even to work to be awkward. One would believe a polite
man might agitate hands with a well renowned ally without any symptoms
of cubbishness. Not at all. Mac Kechan, who served his master loyally and vigorously,
came to him time and time again. In addition, Macdonald of Kingsburgh went to him with some
wine and bread, for he could not fight back the urge to gaze at Charles
Edward.

 He said that he had thought that he would come and see her. She replied
that she was happy and asked him to come into the house and led him
to the kitchen.

As he leaned on the doorway to kitchen, he looked at the room and
told her that he expected to remember the room, but found it very
different with the changes done by her and asked Armida as to why
she had got two stoves and two tables.Armida explained to him and
told her story weeping all the time.

But his only comment was that her story explained the reason for
the appearance of the outside and considered it queerest and most
ridiculous.

He also asked her as why she and Lucas had not sorted out the problem
earlier.She replied that neither she nor Lucas could do that, which
made everything very bad, though she did not bother about how Lucas
designed the outside.

He said that she should not worry and regretted that he did not
have the necessary money to help her out.Armida wanted to know how
he managed himself after he left home.

His reply was that he had a still with which he made essence that
he managed to sell; later he sold the still to make some money with
which he arrived there and that it had taken him the entire thing.Armida
now said with seriousness and sincerity that Theodore would better
stay back now that he had come back.

She also told him as to how much she remained worried and that she shall be immensely pleased
were he to stay back since Lucas would also not mind his stay with
them.

In order that Theodore does not face an outright rejection or snub
she darted out of the house to meet Lucas who was on his way for his
supper and appraised him of his brother’s return.

She was pleased that Lucas shared her pleasure. Lucas shook hands with Theodore even as he
stepped into the room asking him about his wellbeing to which Theodore also replied asking
him about his welfare. It turned out to be great pleasure and relief to all to have Theodore
around as he went about with everybody without any distinction or prejudice. If he were to work,
splitting wood for Armida he would likewise churned for Lucas.

If Armida’s horse was taken round by him to be shod Lucas received
help in the form of giving a good wash to his sheep.

After the first evening he went about the normal way accepting everything
without a murmur, but keeping track of all that was going on.

Lucas as well as Armida loved him since very early days and there
was no change even as of now in their love for him.

On either side of the kitchen he was welcome.

When he announced one evening that he intends visiting and stepped
across to the other side of the half he was sitting that owner seemed
happy and honored with the gesture yet one on the opposite side though
no longer (according to an understood law )joining the conversation,
still was benefited to have Theodore’s narratives.

He was busy too in his own way.

Untiring in berry-picking or in herb-gathering selling all that Armida
and Lucas will not like to, he went about very straightforward.

When he saw some money in his kitty he pooled it to buy a still and started distilling essences of
peppermints, wintergreen, and other sweet-smelling roots and herbs. No sooner the store had a good
collection of them then he loaded them on to a basket and then moved
out with the purpose of selling the product.

With the money brought through these expeditions he would buy a handkerchief or ribbon for Armida.
He even bought and brought for her a stuffed gown on seeing which Armida could not contain
herself almost weeping and spoiling the gown it was tremendous pleasure and joy.
 Being able to control your emotions is
very important should you wish to start a singers career. You have to be able to create strong
feelings inside of you while performing on stage.

Sorrow, Joy, Anger and fear have to be created and controlled by you.

As a singer, you have to feel as if your jaws are not bound to your
skull, yes not even your body.

A great singer once said, you should not even know you have a jaw,
so detached it has to be. Once more there was no noise to be heard; meanwhile, Jeannie wiped away
her tears. It was obvious she had been sobbing.
After awhile she stated, "Alice, I had to let you know. I could not keep it to myself any longer.
Now you understand why Daisy absolutely cannot marry this man and why I am so thankful that
she doesn't love him. Regardless, though, Daisy cannot ever know why she mustn't marry him because
I promised Diana before she died that, as much as it was within my power to prevent it, Daisy
would not ever find out. That was Diana's dearest wish and her last request to me, so my promise
is sacred.
Alice inquired, "Are you going to let him know?"

"I hope I never have to. I want to keep the whole thing as quiet as possible. I don't even know
if it would make any difference if he did know.

Someone like him probably would do what he wanted to anyway.

We must go about this a different way. Do you think he really loves her?

"I don't know.

What I do know for sure is that he is determined to marry her. He has loved so many women that
I doubt he even understands what love really is.

One time..."

"I don't want to hear about his past loves.

It is enough just for me to know there have been so many."

"What do you mean- enough for you to know?"
"It's enough for me so that I can make my plan work. It won't be simple and it definitely won't be
pretty; however, all I'm worried about is making sure I keep my promise to Diana. Hopefully nobody,
but especially not Daisy, must ever find out that her sister lived
like she did in Paris."

Jeannie stood.
"Obviously,the best way to accomplish what we need to is to convince Daisy that he has only
been toying with her," she proposed. "We need to convince her he has never been serious about
her at all. I'm sure it will bruise her ego somewhat, but if it indeed true as you say that
she really doesn't love him, it won't hurt nearly as badly.

We must act now.

Because he is so handsome, she could end up falling in love with him after all at any time.

"Are you telling me that you are going to inform Daisy that he has
just been flirting all this time?"

Alice inquired.
"No, that wouldn't work. She would never believe me. Something has got to convince her because
he could ask her to marry him most any day now. She has got to see something with her own eyes
in order to believe he isn't serious about her.

We've got to set him up. I don't know if it will work, but it's worth a try. We must somehow
get him to flirt with someone else right in front of Daisy.

I can't think of anything else that might accomplish what we want
without telling Daisy everything-- and I just can't do that." 
"Who
are we going to get him to flirt with?" Alice queried. 
"Is Lord
Linfield coming to Bray?"  
"He's supposed to come with everybody
else tomorrow night." 
Jeannie stopped and stared critically at
herself in the mirror, before finally remarking aloud to herself,
"Maybe I'll do. Just barely, but maybe." 
Lady Notthingham arose
quickly and strode toward her. 
"What are you talking about?" she
cried. After registering the traps personally, I was on the lookout for somebody
to transport them to the enclosure where you are expected to remain
until the arrival of the train, when lo and behold! The same man who
had chucked me out appeared, cheerily bowing like it was the first
time I had ever met him and saying, "Ees bettah I rechistar ze loggij,
Sarr, pity shentlemens like you, Sarr, rechistar ze loggij." 
I
turned my back to him in an impression that English natives would
comprehend. Yet, he remained standing, gleeful and waiting for a tip,
Let him be there.