The proposal to bring man and woman together everywhere into extremely intimate relationships
raises very grave questions. It brings up, first, the question of sexual complications; secondly,
the question as to whether the tradition of modesty and reticence between the sexes is to be
definitely sacrificed; and, most important of all, the question as to whether epicene conditions
would place obstacles in the way of intellectual work.

Of these issues the feminist puts the first two quite out of account. I have already elsewhere
said my say upon these matters.[1] With regard to the third, the feminist either fails to realise
that purely intellectual intercourse--as distinguished from an intercommunion of mental images--with
woman is to a large section of men repugnant; or else, perceiving this, she makes up her mind
that, this notwithstanding, she will get her way by denouncing the man who does not welcome
her as selfish; and by insisting that under feminism (the quotation is from Mill, the italics
which question his sincerity are mine) "the mass of mental faculties available for the higher
service of mankind would be doubled."

[1] Vide Appendix, pp. 169-173.

The matter cannot so lightly be disposed of. It will be necessary for us to find out whether
really intimate association with woman on the purely intellectual plane is realisable. And
if it is, in fact, unrealisable, it will be necessary to consider whether it is the exclusion
of women from masculine corporations; or the perpetual attempt of women to force their way
into these, which would deserve to be characterised as selfish.

In connexion with the former of these issues, we have to consider here not whether that form
of intellectual co-operation in which the man plays the game, and the woman moves the pawns
under his orders, is possible. We see without
further notice the two rectangular panels are each other down on the edge. Looking more closely,
we find that the lower edge of the panels is formed differently than the upper, inclined obliquely
forward. This upper limit is straightforward, but the lower shows in its front portion a head
like a horn, and especially with the lead touch the boards the stone seat. What can this be important
details, which incidentally at a large plaster cast in the collection of the Vienna Academy of
Fine Arts some substance play it? There is little doubt that this horn of the font to the top designed
to recognize the signs. Only the upper edge of such panels usually rounded rectangular or wander
out to be. The panels are therefore here on the head. Now this is a strange Treatment as sacred
objects. Are you upside down and are almost on a Tip balanced. What is the formal moment can assist
in this design? Or should also have been indifferent to this detail to the artist?

[10] See the detailed figure D.

  

As is now a considers that the boards by a previous motion come to this position are that this
movement was dependent on the developed locomotion the right hand, and that in turn forced them to hand
their subsequent return movement added. The operations on the hand and sit at the tables together
into the following unit: Initially, when the figure was sitting alone, they helped erect the panels
under the right arm. The right hand grasped the bottom edges and found a support in the forward-looking
Advantage. This facilitation of wearing explains readily why the tables reversed were held. Then
came the moment when the peace was disturbed by the noise. Moses turned down his head, and when
he had looked upon the scene, the foot was to spring up willing to let go of her hand on the
handle bars and went to the left and the top of the beard, how to operate their fury on his body.
The tables were now the pressure of the arm confided that they should press on the chest wall.
But this fixation was not sufficient they began to slide forward and down, which was directed
previously held top horizontal edge forward and backward, deprived of its support with its lower
edge was approaching front tip of the stone seat. A moment more and the tables would have to the
new turn found support point must be reached by early upper edge of the first floor and crash
into him. To prevent this, and drives back the right hand, and dismiss the Bart, a part of which
is pulled along without purpose achieved, nor the edge of the panels and it is based near its
rear, now become the top corner. Shall initiate the strange forced translucent ensemble of
beard, hand, and on the top pair from the panel asked a passionate movement of the hand and
their well-justified implications. If you want the make traces of the previous storm motion reversed,
it must be the top front corner lift the panels and slide back into the image plane, so that
the front lower corner (with the Projection) from the stone seat, lower the hand and under the
now horizontal position lower panel edge lead.

I have let me make three drawings by an artist to illustrate what my description should. The third
is the same statue again, as we see it, the other two are the precursors,
which my interpretation postulates, the first of the rest, the second
the highest voltage, the willingness to spring up, for the avoidance
of hand by the Panels and the beginning of sliding down it.

Now it is remarkable how the two supplemented by my artist representations inaccurate descriptions of
the earlier authors honor him. A contemporary of Michelangelo, Condivi, said: "Moses, the
Duke and Captain the Hebrews, is sitting in the position of a meaningful manner, under the right
arm holds the tablets and supports the chin with the left hand (!), as one of the tired and
full of worry. "The Now is the statue not to see Michelangelo's, but it is consistent with the
assumption that the first drawing is based.


If we do not characterise such exclusions as selfish, but rather respect and sympathise with
them, it is because we recognise that the whole object and raison d' etre of association would
in each case be nullified by the weak-minded admission of the incompatible intruder.

We recognise that if any charge of selfishness would lie, it would lie against that intruder.

Now if this holds in the case where the interests of religious worship or music, or family,
national, or social life, or recreation and relaxation after labour are in question, it will
hold true even more emphatically where the interests of intellectual work are involved.

But the feminist will want to argue.  She will--taking it as always for granted that woman
has a right to all that men's hands or brains have fashioned--argue that it is very important
for the intellectual development of woman that she should have exactly the same opportunities
as man. And she will, scouting [rejecting with contempt] the idea of any differences between
the intelligences of man and woman, discourse to you of their intimate affinity.

It will, perhaps, be well to clear up these points.

The importance of the higher development of woman is unquestionable.

But after all it is the intellect of man which really comes into account in connexion with
"the mass of mental faculties available for the higher service of mankind."

The maintenance of the conditions which allow of man's doing his best intellectual work is
therefore an interest which is superior to that of the intellectual development of woman. And
woman might quite properly be referred for her intellectual development to instructional institutions
which should be special to herself.

Coming to the question of the intimate resemblances between the masculine and the feminine
intelligence, no man would be venturesome enough to dispute these, but he may be pardoned if
he thinks--one would hope in no spirit of exaltation--also of the differences.

We have an instructive analogy in connexion with the learned societies.

It is uncontrovertible that every candidate for election into such a society will have, and
will feel that he has, affinities with the members of that association. And he is invited to
set these forth in his application. But there may also be differences of which he is not sensible.
On that question the electors are the judges; and they are the final court of appeal.

There would seem to be here a moral which the feminist would do well to lay to heart.

There is also another lesson which she might very profitably consider. A quite small difference
will often constitute as effective a bar to a useful and congenial co-operation as a more fundamental
difference.

In the case of a body of intellectual workers one might at first sight suppose that so small
a distinction as that of belonging to a different nationality--sex, of course, is an infinitely
profounder difference--would not be a bar to unrestricted intellectual co-operation.

But in point of fact it is in every country, in every learned society, a uniform rule that
when foreign scientists or scholars are admitted they are placed not on the ordinary list of
working members, but on a special list.

One discerns that there is justification for this in the fact that a foreigner would in certain
eventualities be an incompatible person.

One may think of the eventuality of the learned society deciding to recognise a national service,
or to take part in a national movement. And one is not sure that a foreigner might not be an
incompatible person in the eventuality of a scientist or scholar belonging to a nationality
with which the foreigner's country was at feud being brought forward for election. And he would,
of course, be an impossible person in a society if he were, in a spirit of chauvinism, to press
for a larger representation of his own fellow-countrymen. Smaller and smaller he made his steps to find out
more and more behind her behind, which, heedless of him, went into her room. When Edgar at last
orders, he faced a tough closed doors.

What had happened? He knew himself no longer. The safe was aware of yesterday leave him. Was
he at the end of yesterday is wrong with the raid? And prepared it against him before a penalty
or a new humiliation? Something had happened, it felt it, something terrible had to happen very soon.
Between them was the humidity of an approaching Thunderstorm, the electric voltage between
two charged poles that had to save the flash. And this burden of presentiment, he dragged by four
lonely hours with him, from room to room, until his neck broke down small children with invisible
weight and he noon, now quite humble, came to the table.

"Good day," he said again. He had to tear this silence, this terrible threat, hanging over him
as a black cloud.

Again the mother replied no, and again she looked past him. And with a new shock Edgar is now
felt compared to a prudent, combined anger, as he been in his Life had not yet known. Until now,
their differences are only more angry outbursts of the nerves as the feeling was, evaporates quickly
into a smile of propitiation. This time but he had that he was clearly conscious of a wild feeling
in the lowest depths of their Being upset, and he was frightened by this reckless violence invoked.
Could scarcely to eat it.

In his throat swelled to something dry that threatened to strangle
him.

His mother seemed to remember nothing of all this. Only now, when you get up, she turned as
occasionally back and said:

"Come up then, Edgar, I have to talk to you."

It did not sound threatening, but yet so icy cold that Edgar, the words trembling felt as If
he had been suddenly placed an iron chain around his neck.

Despite being was crushed. Silently, like a whipped dog, he followed her upstairs to the room.

She
prolonged the agony by silent for a few minutes. Minutes in which he Clock stopped beating
and laugh and hammer out a child in itself the heart to the chest. But it had to be in a large
uncertainty, because they did not look at him as she now said to him, but turned his back on him.

"I
do not talk about your conduct of yesterday will.

It was outrageous, and I am ashamed me now when I think of it. You've attributed to the consequences
themselves. I will now only say it was the last time you were allowed
to be alone with adults. I just wrote to your dad that you get a tutor
or sent to a boarding going to learn manners. I will not annoy me
any more with you. "

Edgar stood with bowed head. He felt that this
is only an introduction, was a threat, worried and waited for the
real thing.

These grievances are, first, the economic difficulties of the woman who seeks to earn her living
by work other than unskilled manual labour; secondly, the difficult physiological conditions
in which woman is placed by the excess of the female over the male population and by her diminished
chances of marriage [1]; and thirdly, the tedium which obsesses the life of the woman who is
not forced, and cannot force herself, to work. On the top of these grievances comes the fact
that the suffragist conceives herself to be harshly and unfairly treated by man. This last
is the fire which sets a light to all the inflammable material.

[1] Vide footnote, p. 138.

It would be quite out of question to discuss here the economic and physiological difficulties
of woman. Only this may be said: it is impossible, in view of the procession of starved and
frustrated lives which is continuously filing past, to close one's eyes to the urgency of this
woman's problem.

After all, the primary object of all civilisation is to provide for every member of the community
food and shelter and fulfilment of natural cravings. And when, in what passes as a civilised
community, a whole class is called upon to go without any one of these our human requirements,
it is little wonder that it should break out.

But when a way of escape stands open revolt is not morally justified.

Thus, for example, a man who is born into, but cannot support himself in, a superior class
of society is not, as long as he can find a livelihood abroad in a humbler walk in life, entitled
to revolt.

No more is the woman who is in economic or physiological difficulties. For, if only she has
the pluck to take it, a way of escape stands open to her.

She can emigrate; she can go out from the social class in which she is not self-supporting
into a humbler social class in which she could earn a living; and she can forsake conditions
in which she must remain a spinster for conditions in which she may perhaps become a mother.
Only in this way can the problem of finding work, and relief of tedium, for the woman who now
goes idle be resolved. Nor the anguish reigns almost paralyzing.

  
  "[7] It is noted that the careful arrangement of the sheath around
  the legs of the seated figure of this first piece of the design
  makes Justis untenable. One would assume, rather, it was shown to be shocked,
  like Moses in the quiet as expected without sitting there by a sudden
perception.

Quite similar is expressed Fritz Knapp, except that it extracts the entrance to the concerns
expressed earlier, even the implied movement of the panels consistently continues: "Him who
was just alone with his God as to direct ground noise. He hears a noise, the screams of sung
dance dance awakens him from his dream. The eye, the head contact through to the sound. Terror,
anger, all the fury of wild passions drive through at the moment the giant form. Tables of the
Law herabzugleiten catch on, they will fall to the ground and break when the figure ascends
to hurl thunderous Zornesworte in the masses of the apostate nation .... This moment of high tension
is selected ....« Knapp stresses that is, the preparation to action
and challenges the representation of the initial inhibition due to
the tremendous excitement.

We will not deny that such attempts at interpretation, the last mentioned
by Justi and Knapp have something incredibly complex. She is not made to realise that the woman who cannot work with her
hands is generally hard put to earn enough to keep herself alive in the incomplete condition
of a spinster.

As a result of such education, when, influenced by the feminist movement, woman comes to institute
a comparison between herself and man, she brings into that comparison all those qualities in
which she is substantially his equal, and leaves out of account all those in which she is his
inferior.

The failure to recognise that man is the master, and why he is the master, lies at the root
of the suffrage movement. By disregarding man's superior physical force, the power of compulsion
upon which all government is based is disregarded. By leaving out of account those powers of
the mind in which man is the superior, woman falls into the error of thinking that she can
really compete with him, and that she belongs to the self-same intellectual caste. Finally,
by putting out of sight man's superior money-earning capacity, the power of the purse is ignored.

Uninstructed woman commits also another fundamental error in her comparison. Instead of comparing
together the average man and the average woman, she sets herself to establish that there is
no defect in woman which cannot be discovered also in man; and that there is no virtue or power
in the ordinary man which cannot be discovered also in woman. Which having been established
to her satisfaction, she is led inevitably to the conclusion that there is nothing whatever
to choose between the sexes. 

But in order to interpret the statue that Moses saw just before we see his anger at the sight
of the idol, we must give up the idol and are left with only the views that must be assumed
in the whole character of Moses.

Here again women ought to have been safeguarded by education.  She ought to have been taught
that even when an individual woman comes up to the average of man this does not abrogate the
disqualification which attaches to a difference of sex. Nor yet--as every one who recognises
that we live in a world which conducts itself by generalisations will see--does it abrogate
the disqualification of belonging to an inferior intellectual caste. "Not to be taken around by force?",She laughed.

A laugh which is dry and cold.

"You are dreaming."

This was too much for the child.

Now, he knew, already, that adults lied when they are small. They excused,boldly,
and lied where they slipped to their tight mesh. They were cunning
ambiguity. "I've, also, been dreaming of these bruises?" "Who knows when
you're around hitting yourself."



Instead of her educators encouraging every girl to assert "rights" as against man, and put
forward claims, they ought to teach her with respect to him those lessons of behaviour which
are driven home once for all into every boy at a public school.