   "And they who saw her snow-white hair.
   And dark, sad eyes, so deep with feeling,
   Breathed all at once the chancel air,
   And seemed to hear the organ pealing." The ode was "The Muse Recalled," and the occasion the
nuptials of Lord Viscount Althorp and Miss Lavinia Bingham, eldest
daughter of Sir Charles Bingham, created, in 1776, Baron Lucan of
Castlebar. Sir Charles was a man of culture, who was intimate with
Johnson, Goldsmith, Gibbon, Reynolds, and Burke. He is frequently
pleasantly mentioned by Boswell. He had married, in 1760, Margaret,
daughter of James Smith, M.P., a lady of great good sense and rare
accomplishments, and three lovely daughters were the issue from this
union. Reynolds found in them most pleasing subjects for his pencil.
Their pictures appeared at the Academy, in 1786. Lavinia was portrayed
as shown in the picture here given, and again in quite as lovely a
fashion,--standing out doors and wearing a wide-brimmed hat which
casts a broad shade across the face; the wavy curls of hair fall upon
the shoulder; in the background is a landscape. The naïvete of the
face is exquisitely delightful. The old-time flavor of the whole
causes one to recall Locker's lines on the picture of his
grandmother:--

   "Beneath a summer tree.
   Her maiden reverie
     Has a charm;
   Her ringlets are in taste;
   What an arm! ... what a waist
     For an arm!"

In the picture of her youngest sister, Anne, is a broad hat, too; she sits full-face, but in
her features there is lacking just a little of the quiet dignity of the eldest. All of these
portraits have been made familiar to us by the most meritorious mezzotints of them by Cousins.
In Lavinia's face there lingers all the enchanting grace of girlhood,--a face yet full of that
early beauty--

   "Which, like the morning's glow
   Hints a full day below."

A later president of the Academy, Sir Martin Shee, has shown us that face in the noonday of
its matronly beauty, and the gentle character and sweet sensibility yet outshine through the
mask of the flesh as in the earlier pictures.

Lady Bingham was careful of the education and company of her daughters. The girls were musical,
and Lavinia excelled in painting as well. Walpole writes of her being in Italy, in 1785, with
Mrs. Damer, his sculptor friend, and of her drawing with very great expression. He was not
so complimentary of her music some years before, when he tells of being invited to Lady Lucan's
to hear her daughters sing Jomelli's "Miserere," set for two voices: "It lasted for two hours,
and instead of being pathetic was eminently dull, until at last I rejoiced when 'the two women
had left the sepulchre.'"

Shortly after this he tells of rumors of the attachment of George John, Lord Althorp, brother
of Georgiana of Devonshire, to "that sweet creature" Lavinia. At dinner at Lord Lucan's, Lord
Althorp sat at a side table with the girls and a Miss Shipley. "Pray, Lady Spencer," said Walpole,
"is it owned that Lord Althorp is to marry--Miss Shipley?" His next reference to the Lucans
is in regard to the wedding ode printed on the Strawberry Hill press. The poet therein invokes
blessings in this wise:--

   "Shine forth, ye silver eyes of night,
   And gaze on virtues crowned with treasures of delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

   "Flow smoothly, circling hours,--
   And o'er their heads unblended pleasure pour;
   Nor let your fleeting round
   Their mortal transports bound,
   But fill their cup of bliss, eternal powers,
   Till time himself shall cease, and suns shall blaze no more."

He essays to eulogize the bride:--

   "Each morn reclined on many a rose,
   Lavinia's pencil shall disclose
   New forms of dignity and grace,
   The expressive air, the impassioned face,
   The curled smile, the bubbling tear,
   The bloom of hope, the snow of fear,
   To some poetic tale fresh beauty give,
   And bid the starting tablet rise and live;
   Or with swift fingers shall she touch the strings,
   Notes of such wondrous texture weave
   As lifts the soul on seraph wings."

He then proceeds to encourage Althorp to lead a strong, noble life, devoting his great abilities
to the state, though he laments the small chances for genuine sterling worth to achieve eminence.

   "In this voluptuous, this abandoned age,"

when the leaders of the country are

   "Slaves of vice and slaves of gold."

There was much fitness in this poet essaying a homily for the groom's benefit, for he had been
the young man's tutor some years before. When the first Earl--a man of most fascinating manners--placed
his son in the tutor's charge, he said, "Make him, if you can, like yourself and I shall be
satisfied." Johnson said of Sir William Jones, "The most enlightened of the sons of men." He
became a great Indian and Persian scholar, and was ever an honored friend of his former pupil.

Previous to his marriage, Lord Althorp had entered Parliament, and, as a Whig, was opposing
Lord North. When the Marquess of Rockingham came to power, he was made a Lord Commissioner
of the Treasury. In 1783, he succeeded to his father's earldom. The Dowager Countess lived
on until 1814. Her character has been variously described. Mrs. Delany calls her "an agreeable
person, with a sensible, generous, and delicate mind." She was termed vain. What woman would
not be who was mother to such beauties as Devonshire, Duncannon, and Lavinia. In an autobiography
by the third Earl, he naïvely remarks that his mother never liked his grandmother. The pleasing
picture of "Ruth and Naomi" is the exception in families.

On the breaking out of the French Revolution, Earl Spencer gave his support to Pitt, by whom
he was appointed first lord of the admiralty, in 1794. It was during the period of her husband's
brilliant career in this office that the Countess made her greatest success as a hostess in
ministerial society. She was a good conversationalist, and especially attractive to men of
individuality who admired her sagacious, picturesque pungency of expression. The great naval
commanders, who frequented the admiralty, were impressed with the frankness and force of her
superior mind, Nelson and Collingwood particularly. She is frequently mentioned in their letters
as being sure to have much sympathy in their work. A late biographer of the Earl wrote: "She
had the penetration to appreciate Nelson through the cloud of personal vanity and silly conceit
which caused him to be lightly esteemed in London society." Her "bull-dog" she used playfully
to call him. She visited Gibbon at Lausanne, in 1795, and he writes: "She is a charming woman
who, with sense and spirit, has the playfulness and simplicity of a child." By some she was
accounted haughty and exclusive. Perchance she was to those who were without the breeding or
the brains to commend them to her. Dignified she certainly was, and her influence was wholly
for good in the uplifting of politics and the purifying of society. "I would not advise any
one to utter a word against any one she was attached to," once said her father. She became
the wise coadjutor of her husband in forming the magnificent Althorp Library.

When the earl retired from the admiralty, in 1800, his entertaining became less general. His
hospitalities at Spencer House were restricted to his more intimate friends. Here came Lord
Grenville, Earl Grey, chief of the Whigs, Brougham, Horner, and Lord John Russell; the younger
men to hold converse with her who had known Burke, Pitt, Fox, and all the older time orators
and statesmen.

In a series of boyish letters sent by the heir to the earldom to his father the ending of all
is in this quaint phrase: "My duty to Mama." The youth did his duty by his mother. She directed
his tastes and studies, and when he was at college incited him to try for high honors, and
urged, again and yet again, application to study; and through her persuasion he became a reading
man. He entered Parliament when of age, in 1803. During the Fox and Grenville administration
he held office as a lord of the treasury. When his mother was congratulated on his appointment,
she said: "Jack was always skilful in figures, and his work is so much to his taste that I
am sure he will do himself credit." He did himself great credit. His career was consistently
courageous, honorable, and beneficent. He had character! This is his mother's best eulogy.
She died in 1831, shortly after her son had become Chancellor of the Exchequer, in which office
he earned his greatest repute as a statesman.

ELIZABETH GUNNING

The story of the Gunnings is as romantic as any ever wrought into imaginative narrative or
incorporated in epic poem. The notorious damsels were daughters of John Gunning of Castle Coote,
County Roscommon, Ireland, by the Hon. Bridget Bourke, daughter of Theobald, sixth Viscount
Bourke of Mayo, whom he married in 1731. The family was wofully impecunious; so when the daughters,
Maria and Elizabeth, grew into marvellously comely maidens, their mother urged their going
on the stage to augment the faulty fortune. They went to Dublin, and there were kindly received
by Peg Woffington, then in her glory as Sir Harry Wildair, and by Tom Sheridan, manager of
Dublin Theatre. The stage had not then become the stepping-stone to the ranks of the nobility,
so the girls were advised to adventure socially, with their faces for their fortunes. They
had not the dresses to be presented in at Dublin Castle, but Sheridan supplied these from the
resources of the green-room wardrobe. Attired as Lady Macbeth and as Juliet they made their
curtsies to the Earl of Harrington, the then Lord-Lieutenant.

The hostess of the evening was the handsome Lady Caroline Petersham, bride of the Earl's eldest
son. Lady Caroline had been one of the "Beauty Fitzroys," and had been a favorite belle in
town before her marriage.

   "When Fitzroy moves, resplendent, fair.
   So warm her bloom, sublime her air,
   Her ebon tresses formed to grace
   And heighten while they shade her face."

Walpole wrote of her in his poem on "The Beauties." The raw Connaught girls outshone this dazzling
hostess.

Their "first night" was an auspicious success. The début was applauded, and the players praised.
They were adjudged fitted to star the social capital, so to London they went, in June, 1751.
Their reception was magical. The West End went almost mad over them. When they appeared at
Court, the aristocracy present was indecorous in its efforts to view the dominant beauties.
Lords and ladies clambered on any eminence to gaze. The crowd surged upon them, and it was
with difficulty they entered their chairs because of the mob outside. The gayety of Vauxhall
Gardens was incomplete without them.

Their campaign was a short and eminently active one; Elizabeth triumphed first. At a masquerade
at Lord Chesterfield's, in February, 1752, James, the sixth Duke of Hamilton and Brandon, who
was enamoured of the younger Irish girl, wished to marry her at once. A clergyman was asked
to perform the ceremony then and there. He objected to the time and place and the absence of
a ring. The Duke threatened to send for the Archbishop. With the ring of a bed-curtain, at
half an hour past midnight, the wedding took place in Mayfair Chapel. The Scotch were enraged
at the alliance, which became an unhappy one. The Duke was vulgar, debauched, extravagant,
and "damaged in person and fortune," yet, withal, insolently proud. He betook himself off within
six years, and his two sons by the Duchess became, successively, seventh and eighth Dukes of
Hamilton; and a daughter married Edward, twelfth Earl of Derby.

The dowager was less than a year in widow's weeds when she exchanged them for more strawberry
leaves. She had two ducal offers, from their graces of Bridgewater and of Argyll; she accepted
the latter. In March, 1759, she married John, the fifth Duke of that name. And again: "A match
that would not disgrace Arcadia ... as she is not quite so charming as her sister, I do not
know whether it is not better than to retain a title which puts one in mind of her beauty."

The Dukes of Argyll--Lords of the Isles--have always shown a partiality for beauties as brides.
This Duke's father married the beautiful Mary Bellenden, daughter of John, Lord Bellenden,--

     "Smiling Mary, soft and fair as down."

Walpole says she was never mentioned by her contemporaries but as the most perfect creature
they had ever known. The present Duke wedded that charming child, Lady Elizabeth Leveson Gower,
who sits on her mother's knee in that surpassingly fine picture by Lawrence, called "Lady Gower
and Child." And his son is allied to the Princess Louise, the most comely of Victoria's daughters.

After her sister's death, in 1760, her Grace of Argyll suffered a decline in health. She was
ordered abroad for change. She was appointed to accompany the Princess Sophia Charlotte on
her journey to England to be married to the King. As they neared the ceremony in London, the
Princess became nervous. Her Grace essayed to quiet her fears. "Ah, my dear Duchess, you may
laugh at me, but you have been married twice," said the Princess. The Duchess became one of
the ladies of the bedchamber, and was in much favor with the Queen.

In 1767, her father died at Somerset House, and her mother, the Hon. Mrs. Gunning, in 1770.
There were three sisters in the family besides our heroines: Sophia Gunning died, an infant,
in 1737; Lissy, who died in 1752, aged eight years; and Catherine, who was married, in 1769,
to Robert Travis an Irish squire in her own rank of life. She died, too, at Somerset House,
in 1773, where she was an upper housekeeper. A brother entered the army, fought at Bunker Hill,
and became a major-general in 1787. He was much of a ladies' man. He married a Miss Minfie,
author of some novels, and they had a daughter who aspired to repeat the successes of her famous
aunts. She managed to marry the Hon. Stephen Digby, who had lost his first wife, a daughter
of Lord Ilchester, in 1787. The Duchess of Argyll was created, in 1776, a peeress of England
as Baroness Hamilton of Hambledon County, Leicester, and died in December, 1790. By her second
marriage she had two sons, successively Dukes of Argyll, and two daughters, one of whom, Lady
Charlotte Campbell, attained some fame as a novelist as Lady Charlotte Bury, she having married
Colonel John Campbell and secondly Rev. Edward Bury.

We have no evidence of the possession of bright Irish wit by the double-duchessed beauty. Ingenuous
enthusiasm, perfect simplicity, and unfailing good humor ever marked her manner, and were a
captivating adjunct to her great facial charm. Walpole writes of a pretty sight when their
Graces of Hamilton and of Richmond with Lady Ailesbury sitting in a boat together, and proceeds
to tell of the suspected jealousy by she of Hamilton of the beauty of his niece, daughter of
Sir Edward Walpole, who became the bride of Earl Waldegrave, and later married the Duke of
Gloucester, the King's youngest brother. At another time, when a lady wrote telling him of
the advent of a beauty who was expected to outvie the Gunnings, he replies: "There was to have
been a handsomer every summer these seven years, but when the seasons come they all seem to
have been addled by the winter."

One day the housekeeper of Hampton Court was showing the palace to visitors when the sisters
were there. She threw open the door where they were sitting, saying, "This is our beauty-room."
The pictures and galleries were forgotten by the crowd, which gazed on the beauties instead.

For a decade their beauty was regnant in London. They were not politicians as were their Graces
of Gordon and Devonshire, nor had they the ability to become such. Neither were they the associates
of brilliant, intellectual men, but participants in the gay, vacuous, showy society of the
rapid set of the aristocracy. The elder sister gained the coronet of Coventry, but her vanity
caused her own undoing; the younger was a part of the exhibition of "Beauty and the Beast."
A high price was paid for her position by the endurance of a period of tyranny and terror.

Some praise must be accorded the beauties, for at a time of much licentiousness of a profligate
society and tolerated coarsenesses, the sisters determinedly kept their names free from ignoble
soil and scandal.

MARIA GUNNING

"Two Irish girls of no fortune, who make more noise than any of their predecessors since the
days of Helen, and who are declared the handsomest women alive." So wrote Walpole, in June,
1751. If we were to judge of their beauty by the pictured presentments of it, we would certainly
agree with "our Horace" when he says he has seen much handsomer women than either. We have
no adequate image of their surpassing loveliness, the beholding of which would cause us to
feel how merited was their meed of praise, how fair the contemporary comment on their comeliness,
and how just the wide fame of a beauty which tradition has epitomized for us in the phrase,
"The Fair Gunnings." Though the print publishers of the time actively issued portraits, we
feel that none of them picture such a person as would set society and the whole city of London
astir by her blazing beauty.

The best-known likenesses are the various pictures by Francis Cotes, one of the founders of
the Royal Academy, a painter of considerable merit, who was born about 1725, and died in 1770.
It is said that Hogarth preferred him as a portrait painter to Reynolds. His studio was in
Cavendish Square, and at his death was taken by Romney; and it was while he worked there that
Sir Joshua referred to his rival as "the man in Cavendish Square." The studio was later occupied
by Sir Martin Shee.

Cotes's picture of Maria is a half length of a modestly dignified lady, having no tendency
at all to that silliness that Walpole insinuates was characteristic of her. The face is oval,
the eyebrows well apart and distinctly arched, and the hair brushed back from the forehead
and falling on the very graceful neck. The dress is cut low, showing a delicately-moulded bosom.
This picture was mezzo-tinted by McArdell; and there is another, somewhat similar, reproduced
superbly by Spooner. His principal picture of Elizabeth is not so attractive as the picture
of her sister; the body is too constrained and symmetrically formal; the dress is very low
and edged with lace, some flowers resting on her bosom. The neck and breast have not the suave
grace of the sister's. This has been engraved in mezzo-tint by Houston. Another portrait by
Cotes shows her with fur on the dress. He also painted a portrait of Kitty in a low dress sprigged
with flowers, with a sash, and ribbons at the back of the head. This has a wooded landscape
background. Below the print of this picture is engraved these lines:--

   "This youngest of the Graces here we view
   So like in Beauty to the other two
   Whoe'er compares their Features and their Frame
   Will know at once that Gunning is her name."

There is an engraved picture of the two sisters together--based on Cotes's portrayals--called
"The Hibernian Sisters." Maria is sitting on the left, looking toward the right, with a dog
on her lap; the younger is on the right, looking to the front, and holds a fan in her hand.
In the background is a garden wall. Cupids surmount the picture. The inscription is in this
fashion:--

   "Hibernia long with spleen beheld
   Her Favorite Toasts by ours excelled.
   Resolved to outvie Britannia's Fair
   By her own Beauties,--sent a pair."

Reynolds painted them both, in 1753; but he failed to give them the charm we would expect.
Unless Sir Joshua's engravers belie him, he did not make Maria even ordinarily fair to look
upon. These pictures are not classed among his masterpieces. There is a picture of Maria by
B. Wilson the engraver, made before she left Ireland. In it the features are handsome and the
figure graceful, though over-dressed, and the whole impression is of a matron in her thirties
rather than a maid in her teens. The picture we give of her is from a whole-length by Gavin
Hamilton, a Scotch artist, a friend of Burns, born in Lanark about 1730. He must have been
a precocious genius, for this picture was engraved by McArdell, and published in 1754. Hamilton
passed the greater part of his life in Rome, painting classical subjects and pursuing archaeological
investigations. He died there, in 1797. Portraiture was probably a pecuniary pursuit before
the classics claimed him. His portraits savor somewhat of the affectations of the "curtain
and column" school. His canvas of Elizabeth shows her standing on a terrace with a low dress
and long hair, a veil loosely tied across her chest. Her left hand rests on the head of a greyhound.
There is a seat to the left and trees in the background.

Houston engraved a portrait of Maria after a drawing by J. St. Liotard. This is a three-quarter
length figure. Her hair is in large plaits twined with a muslin veil on her head. The dress
is open at the throat, showing a necklace. There is a wide belt with large clasps. Her left
elbow rests on her knee. Perhaps the most satisfactory pictures of the Beauties are those by
Catharine Read, who died, in 1786; and who is chiefly known by her winsome delineations of
the graces of the Gunning girls. We could readily judge from these that the girls were attractive.
There is a genial graciousness in the face of she of Coventry, while the Scotch duchess is
possessed of a persuasive sweetness of mien. The mob-cap frames a face almost faultless in
the regularity of its features. For all the pleasant flavor of these facial charms, there is
absent that peerless, regal loveliness, that compelling magnificence of presence, that hauteur
which dazzles and enthrals.

The originals of these various portraits have been retained at Croome Court, near Worcester;
the seat of the Coventry family, at Inverary Castle, Argyllshire; and at Hamilton Palace.

Three weeks after the romantic marriage of her younger sister, Maria Gunning was married to
George William, who was Lord Deerhurst--"that grave young Lord," Walpole calls him--until 1750,
when he succeeded to the Earldom of Coventry. He had been dangling about her for some time,
and seemed nerved to the wedding by his Grace of Hamilton's precipitate action. The Earl took
her for a trip on the Continent in company with Lady Caroline Petersham, that other great beauty.
Neither caused much comment abroad, and Paris did not ratify the repute of London. My Lady
was at a disadvantage from her ignorance of the French language. She complained, too, of the
arbitrary rule of her husband in not allowing her red nor powder, so much in vogue with the
Parisian beauties. It is told how he saw her appear at a dinner with some on, and took out
his handkerchief, and there tried to rub it off. But her fame abated not in England. Crowds
continued to mob her whenever she appeared on the street. The King was pleased to order that
whenever my Lady Coventry walked abroad she should be attended by a guard of soldiers. Shortly
after this she simulated great fright at the curiosity of the mob, and asked for escort. She
then paraded in the park, accompanied by her husband and Lord Pembroke, preceded by two sergeants,
and followed by twelve soldiers. Surely this outdoes the advertising genius of any latter-day
American actress! A shoemaker at Worcester gained two guineas and a half by exhibiting at a
penny a head a shoe he had made for the Countess. She was in much favor at Court, and always
circulated in an atmosphere of adulation and sensation. The Duke of Cumberland was an admirer,
as was also, more emphatically, Fred St. John, Viscount Bolingbroke,--"Billy and Bully" these
two blades were termed. There was rumor, at one time, of the Earl seriously resenting the attentions
of Bolingbroke. The old King, too, showed her some courtesies; and the most oft-told anecdote
of her is about His Majesty asking if she were not sorry the masquerades were over. She assured
him she was surfeited with pageants,--there was but one she wished yet to see, and that was
a coronation. She saw it not, for the King outlived her by a fortnight. Had she but abstained
from the use of paint and powder, her career would not have ended at the early age of twenty-seven.
Blood-poisoning came from the use of it. Her beauty paled rapidly. My lady lay on a couch,
a pocket-glass constantly in hand, grieving at the gradual decay. The room was darkened, that
others might not discern that which so chagrined her. Then the curtains of the bed were drawn
to guard her from pitying gaze; and then, on a September day, in 1760, the pathetic end came.
Over ten thousand people viewed her coffin. Sensationalism even after the drop of the curtain!
The Countess left four children, two sons and two daughters. Of these, Anne, four years old
at her mother's death, was one of the children whom George Selwyn showed much kindness to.
The Earl married again, the second Countess being Barbara, daughter of Lord St. John of Bletsoe.
George William, the son of Maria, came to the earldom in 1809.

In an ode on the death of Maria the poet Mason wrote:--

   "For she was fair beyond your brightest bloom
     (This Envy owns, since now her bloom is fled):
   Fair as the Forms that wove in Fancy's loom,
     Float in light vision round the Poet's head.
   Whene'er with soft serenity she smiled,
     Or caught the orient blush of quick surprise,
   How sweetly mutable, how brightly wild.
     The liquid lustre darted from her eyes!
   Each look, each motion, waked a new-born grace
     That o'er her form its transient glory cast:
   Some lovelier wonder soon usurped the place,
     Chased by a charm still lovelier than the last."

LADY ELIZABETH

In these latter days can we imagine a lawsuit, costing contestants thousands of pounds, over
the right to a certain heraldic charge? In the fourteenth century Sir Robert Grosvenor was
the defendant in such a suit, and we read of Chaucer, John of Gaunt, Owen Glendower, and Hotspur
being witnesses before the High Court of Chivalry. Sir Robert established his defence, and
since those days the Grosvenors have ever held a high rank in the nobility of England. Quite
as proud a patrician position was held through the centuries by the family of Gower. In the
early part of this century, the heir of the Grosvenors espoused the most beautiful daughter
of the House of Gower,--Lady Elizabeth Mary Leveson Gower. This lady was the youngest daughter
of George, the second Marquis of Stafford, who married, in 1785, Elizabeth, who was Countess
of Sutherland and Baroness Strathnaver in her own right. The Marquis was created Duke of Sutherland
in 1833.

The Lady Elizabeth Mary was born in 1797, and married, in 1819, Robert, Viscount Belgrave,
eldest son of the second Earl of Grosvenor. The portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence was painted
in the year preceding her marriage.

