"Oh, Bill," Hazel called from the bow.  "Look!  There's the same old steamer tied to the same
old bank.  We've been gone a year, and yet the world hasn't changed a mite.  I wonder if Hazleton
has taken a Rip van Winkle sleep all this time?"

"No fear," he smiled.  "I can see some new houses--quite a few, in fact.  And look--by Jiminy!
They're working on the grade.  That railroad, remember?  See all those teams?  Maybe I ought
to have taken up old Hackaberry on that town-lot proposition, after all."

"Fiddlesticks!" she retorted, with fine scorn of Hazleton's real-estate possibilities.  "You
could buy the whole town with this."

She touched the sack with her toe.

"Not quite," Bill returned placidly.  "I wouldn't, anyway.  We'll get a better run for our
money than that.  I hope old Hack didn't forget to attend to that ranch business for me."

He drove the canoe alongside a float.  A few loungers viewed them with frank curiosity.  Bill
set out the treasure sack and the bale of furs, and tied the canoe.

"A new hotel, by Jove!" he remarked, when upon gaining the level of the town a new two-story
building blazoned with a huge sign its function as a hostelry.  "Getting quite metropolitan
in this neck of the woods. Say, little person, do you think you can relish a square meal? 
Planked steak and lobster salad--huh?  I wonder if they could rustle a salad in this man's
town?  Say, do you know I'm just beginning to find out how hungry I am for the flesh-pots.
What's the matter with a little variety?--as Lin MacLean said.  Aren't you, hon?"

She was; frankly so.  For long, monotonous months she had been struggling against just such
cravings, impossible of realization, and therefore all the more tantalizing.  She had been
a year in the wilderness, and the wilderness had not only lost its glamour, but had become
a thing to flee from.  Even the rude motley of Hazleton was a welcome change.  Here at least--on
a minor scale, to be sure--was that which she craved, and to which she had been accustomed--life,
stir, human activity, the very antithesis of the lonely mountain fastnesses. She bestowed a
glad pressure on her husband's arm as they walked up the street, Bill carrying the sack of
gold perched carelessly on one shoulder.

"Say, their enterprise has gone the length of establishing a branch bank here, I see."

He called her attention to a square-fronted edifice, its new-boarded walls as yet guiltless
of paint, except where a row of black letters set forth that it was the Bank of British North
America.

"That's a good place to stow this bullion," he remarked.  "I want to get it off my hands."

So to the bank they bent their steps.  A solemn, horse-faced Englishman weighed the gold, and
issued Bill a receipt, expressing a polite regret that lack of facility to determine its fineness
prevented him from converting it into cash.

"That means a trip to Vancouver," Bill remarked outside.  "Well, we can stand that."

From the bank they went to the hotel, registered, and were shown to a room.  For the first
time since the summit of the Klappan Range, where her tiny hand glass had suffered disaster,
Hazel was permitted a clear view of herself in a mirror.

"I'm a perfect fright!" she mourned.

"Huh!" Bill grunted.  "You're all right.  Look at me."

The trail had dealt hardly with both, in the matter of their personal appearance.  Tanned to
an abiding brown, they were, and Hazel's one-time smooth face was spotted with fly bites and
marked with certain scratches suffered in the brush as they skirted the Kispiox.  Her hair
had lost its sleek, glossy smoothness of arrangement.  Her hands were reddened and rough. 
But chiefly she was concerned with the sad state of her apparel.  She had come a matter of
four hundred miles in the clothes on her back--and they bore unequivocal evidence of the journey.

