The astonished party then resolved that they would remain absolutely silent respecting the
wonderful sight which they had seen. Their habits were too philosophical to permit them to
believe that they had actually seen the ghost of their deceased brother, and at the same time
they were too wise men to wish to confirm the superstition of the vulgar by what might seem
indubitable evidence of a ghost. The affair was therefore kept a strict secret, although, as
usual, some dubious rumours of the tale found their way to the public. Several years afterwards,
an old woman who had long filled the place of a sick-nurse, was taken very ill, and on her
death-bed was attended by a medical member of the philosophical club. To him, with many expressions
of regret, she acknowledged that she had long before attended Mr.----, naming the president
whose appearance had surprised the club so strangely, and that she felt distress of conscience
on account of the manner in which he died. She said that as his malady was attended by light-headedness,
she had been directed to keep a close watch upon him during his illness. Unhappily she slept,
and during her sleep the patient had awaked and left the apartment. When, on her own awaking,
she found the bed empty and the patient gone, she forthwith hurried out of the house to seek
him, and met him in the act of returning. She got him, she said, replaced in bed, but it was
only to die there. She added, to convince her hearer of the truth of what she said, that immediately
after the poor gentleman expired, a deputation of two members from the club came to enquire
after their president's health, and received for answer that he was already dead. This confession
explained the whole matter. The delirious patient had very naturally taken the road to the
club, from some recollections of his duty of the night. In approaching and retiring from the
apartment he had used one of the pass-keys already mentioned, which made his way shorter. On
the other hand, the gentlemen sent to enquire after his health had reached his lodging by a
more circuitous road; and thus there had been time for him to return to what proved his death-bed,
long before they reached his chamber. The philosophical witnesses of this strange scene were
now as anxious to spread the story as they had formerly been to conceal it, since it showed
in what a remarkable manner men's eyes might turn traitors to them, and impress them with ideas
far different from the truth.

Another occurrence of the same kind, although scarcely so striking in its circumstances, was
yet one which, had it remained unexplained, might have passed as an indubitable instance of
a supernatural apparition.

A Teviotdale farmer was riding from a fair, at which he had indulged himself with John Barleycorn,
but not to that extent of defying goblins which it inspired into the gallant Tam o'Shanter.
He was pondering with some anxiety upon the dangers of travelling alone on a solitary road
which passed the corner of a churchyard, now near at hand, when he saw before him in the moonlight
a pale female form standing upon the very wall which surrounded the cemetery. The road was
very narrow, with no opportunity of giving the apparent phantom what seamen call a wide berth.
It was, however, the only path which led to the rider's home, who therefore resolved, at all
risks, to pass the apparition. He accordingly approached, as slowly as possible, the spot where
the spectre stood, while the figure remained, now perfectly still and silent, now brandishing
its arms and gibbering to the moon. When the farmer came close to the spot he dashed in the
spurs and set the horse off upon a gallop; but the spectre did not miss its opportunity. As
he passed the corner where she was perched, she contrived to drop behind the horseman and seize
him round the waist, a manoeuvre which greatly increased the speed of the horse and the terror
of the rider; for the hand of her who sat behind him, when pressed upon his, felt as cold as
that of a corpse. At his own house at length he arrived, and bid the servants who came to attend
him, "Tak aff the ghaist!" They took off accordingly a female in white, and the poor farmer
himself was conveyed to bed, where he lay struggling for weeks with a strong nervous fever.
The female was found to be a maniac, who had been left a widow very suddenly by an affectionate
husband, and the nature and cause of her malady induced her, when she could make her escape,
to wander to the churchyard, where she sometimes wildly wept over his grave, and sometimes,
standing on the corner of the churchyard wall, looked out, and mistook every stranger on horseback
for the husband she had lost. If this woman, which was very possible, had dropt from the horse
unobserved by him whom she had made her involuntary companion, it would have been very hard
to have convinced the honest farmer that he had not actually performed part of his journey
with a ghost behind him.

There is also a large class of stories of this sort, where various secrets of chemistry, of
acoustics, ventriloquism, or other arts, have been either employed to dupe the spectators,
or have tended to do so through mere accident and coincidence. Of these it is scarce necessary
to quote instances; but the following may be told as a tale recounted by a foreign nobleman
known to me nearly thirty years ago, whose life, lost in the service of his sovereign, proved
too short for his friends and his native land.

At a certain old castle on the confines of Hungary, the lord to whom it belonged had determined
upon giving an entertainment worthy of his own rank and of the magnificence of the antique
mansion which he inhabited. The guests of course were numerous, and among them was a veteran
officer of hussars, remarkable for his bravery. When the arrangements for the night were made
this officer was informed that there would be difficulty in accommodating the company in the
castle, large as was, unless some one would take the risk of sleeping in a room supposed to
be haunted, and that, as he was known to be above such prejudices, the apartment was in the
first place proposed for his occupation, as the person least likely to suffer a bad night's
rest from such a cause. The major thankfully accepted the preference, and having shared the
festivity of the evening, retired after midnight, having denounced vengeance against any one
who should presume by any trick to disturb his repose; a threat which his habits would, it
was supposed, render him sufficiently ready to execute. Somewhat contrary to the custom in
these cases, the major went to bed, having left his candle burning and laid his trusty pistols,
carefully loaded, on the table by his bedside.

He had not slept an hour when he was awakened by a solemn strain of music. He looked out. Three
ladies, fantastically dressed in green, were seen in the lower end of the apartment, who sung
a solemn requiem. The major listened for some time with delight; at length he tired. "Ladies,"
he said, "this is very well, but somewhat monotonous--will you be so kind as to change the
tune?" The ladies continued singing; he expostulated, but the music was not interrupted. The
major began to grow angry: "Ladies," he said, "I must consider this as a trick for the purpose
of terrifying me, and as I regard it as an impertinence, I shall take a rough mode of stopping
it." With that he began to handle his pistols. The ladies sung on. He then get seriously angry:
"I will but wait five minutes," he said, "and then fire without hesitation." The song was uninterrupted--the
five minutes were expired. "I still give you law, ladies," he said, "while I count twenty."
This produced as little effect as his former threats. He counted one, two, three accordingly;
but on approaching the end of the number, and repeating more than once his determination to
fire, the last numbers, seventeen--eighteen--nineteen, were pronounced with considerable pauses
between, and an assurance that the pistols were cocked. The ladies sung on. As he pronounced
the word twenty he fired both pistols against the musical damsels--but the ladies sung on!
The major was overcome by the unexpected inefficacy of his violence, and had an illness which
lasted more than three weeks. The trick put upon him may be shortly described by the fact that
the female choristers were placed in an adjoining room, and that he only fired at their reflection
thrown forward into that in which he slept by the effect of a concave mirror.

Other stories of the same kind are numerous and well known. The apparition of the Brocken mountain,
after having occasioned great admiration and some fear, is now ascertained by philosophers
to be a gigantic reflection, which makes the traveller's shadow, represented upon the misty
clouds, appear a colossal figure of almost immeasurable size. By a similar deception men have
been induced, in Westmoreland and other mountainous countries, to imagine they saw troops of
horse and armies marching and countermarching, which were in fact only the reflection of horses
pasturing upon an opposite height, or of the forms of peaceful travellers.

A very curious case of this kind was communicated to me by the son of the lady principally
concerned, and tends to show out of what mean materials a venerable apparition may be sometimes
formed. In youth this lady resided with her father, a man of sense and resolution. Their house
was situated in the principal street of a town of some size. The back part of the house ran
at right angles to an Anabaptist chapel, divided from it by a small cabbage-garden. The young
lady used sometimes to indulge the romantic love of solitude by sitting in her own apartment
in the evening till twilight, and even darkness, was approaching. One evening, while she was
thus placed, she was surprised to see a gleamy figure, as of some aerial being, hovering, as
it were, against the arched window in the end of the Anabaptist chapel. Its head was surrounded
by that halo which painters give to the Catholic saints; and while the young lady's attention
was fixed on an object so extraordinary, the figure bent gracefully towards her more than once,
as if intimating a sense of her presence, and then disappeared. The seer of this striking vision
descended to her family, so much discomposed as to call her father's attention. He obtained
an account of the cause of her disturbance, and expressed his intention to watch in the apartment
next night. He sat accordingly in his daughter's chamber, where she also attended him. Twilight
came, and nothing appeared; but as the gray light faded into darkness, the same female figure
was seen hovering on the window; the same shadowy form, the same pale light-around the head,
the same inclinations, as the evening before. "What do you think of this?" said the daughter
to the astonished father. "Anything, my dear," said the father, "rather than allow that we
look upon what is supernatural." A strict research established a natural cause for the appearance
on the window. It was the custom of an old woman, to whom the garden beneath was rented, to
go out at night to gather cabbages. The lantern she carried in her hand threw up the refracted
reflection of her form on the chapel window. As she stooped to gather her cabbages the reflection
appeared to bend forward; and that was the whole matter.

Another species of deception, affecting the credit of such supernatural communications, arises
from the dexterity and skill of the authors who have made it their business to present such
stories in the shape most likely to attract belief. Defoe--whose power in rendering credible
that which was in itself very much the reverse was so peculiarly distinguished--has not failed
to show his superiority in this species of composition. A bookseller of his acquaintance had,
in the trade phrase, rather overprinted an edition of "Drelincourt on Death," and complained
to Defoe of the loss which was likely to ensue. The experienced bookmaker, with the purpose
of recommending the edition, advised his friend to prefix the celebrated narrative of Mrs.
Veal's ghost, which he wrote for the occasion, with such an air of truth, that although in
fact it does not afford a single tittle of evidence properly so called, it nevertheless was
swallowed so eagerly by the people that Drelincourt's work on death, which the supposed spirit
recommended to the perusal of her friend Mrs. Bargrave, instead of sleeping on the editor's
shelf, moved off by thousands at once; the story, incredible in itself, and unsupported as
it was by evidence or enquiry, was received as true, merely from the cunning of the narrator,
and the addition of a number of adventitious circumstances, which no man alive could have conceived
as having occurred to the mind of a person composing a fiction.

It did not require the talents of Defoe, though in that species of composition he must stand
unrivalled, to fix the public attention on a ghost story. John Dunton, a man of scribbling
celebrity at the time, succeeded to a great degree in imposing upon the public a tale which
he calls the Apparition Evidence. The beginning of it, at least (for it is of great length),
has something in it a little new. At Mynehead, in Somersetshire, lived an ancient gentlewoman
named Mrs. Leckie, whose only son and daughter resided in family with her. The son traded to
Ireland, and was supposed to be worth eight or ten thousand pounds. They had a child about
five or six years old. This family was generally respected in Mynehead; and especially Mrs.
Leckie, the old lady, was so pleasant in society, that her friends used to say to her, and
to each other, that it was a thousand pities such an excellent, good-humoured gentlewoman must,
from her age, be soon lost to her friends. To which Mrs. Leckie often made the somewhat startling
reply: "Forasmuch as you now seem to like me, I am afraid you will but little care to see or
speak with me after my death, though I believe you may have that satisfaction." Die, however,
she did, and after her funeral was repeatedly seen in her personal likeness, at home and abroad,
by night and by noonday.

One story is told of a doctor of physic walking into the fields, who in his return met with
this spectre, whom he at first accosted civilly, and paid her the courtesy of handing her over
a stile. Observing, however, that she did not move her lips in speaking, or her eyes in looking
round, he became suspicious of the condition of his companion, and showed some desire to be
rid of her society. Offended at this, the hag at next stile planted herself upon it, and obstructed
his passage. He got through at length with some difficulty, and not without a sound kick, and
an admonition to pay more attention to the next aged gentlewoman whom he met. "But this," says
John Dunton, "was a petty and inconsiderable prank to what she played in her son's house and
elsewhere. She would at noonday appear upon the quay of Mynehead, and cry, 'A boat, a boat,
ho! a boat, a boat, ho!' If any boatmen or seamen were in sight, and did not come, they were
sure to be cast away; and if they did come, 'twas all one, they were cast away. It was equally
dangerous to please and displease her. Her son had several ships sailing between Ireland and
England; no sooner did they make land, and come in sight of England, but this ghost would appear
in the same garb and likeness as when she was alive, and, standing at the mainmast, would blow
with a whistle, and though it were never so great a calm, yet immediately there would arise
a most dreadful storm, that would break, wreck, and drown the ship and goods; only the seamen
would escape with their lives--the devil had no permission from God to take them away. Yet
at this rate, by her frequent apparitions and disturbances, she had made a poor merchant of
her son, for his fair estate was all buried in the sea, and he that was once worth thousands
was reduced to a very poor and low condition in the world; for whether the ship were his own
or hired, or he had but goods on board it to the value of twenty shillings, this troublesome
ghost would come as before, whistle in a calm at the mainmast at noonday, when they had descried
land, and then ship and goods went all out of hand to wreck; insomuch that he could at last
get no ships wherein to stow his goods, nor any mariner to sail in them; for knowing what an
uncomfortable, fatal, and losing voyage they should make of it, they did all decline his service.
In her son's house she hath her constant haunts by day and night; but whether he did not, or
would not own if he did, see her, he always professed he never saw her. Sometimes when in bed
with his wife, she would cry out, 'Husband, look, there's your mother!' And when he would turn
to the right side, then was she gone to the left; and when to the left side of the bed, then
was she gone to the right; only one evening their only child, a girl of about five or six years
old, lying in a ruckle-bed under them, cries out, 'Oh, help me, father! help me, mother! for
grandmother will choke me!' and before they could get to their child's assistance she had murdered
it; they finding the poor girl dead, her throat having been pinched by two fingers, which stopped
her breath and strangled her. This was the sorest of all their afflictions; their estate is
gone, and now their child is gone also; you may guess at their grief and great sorrow. One
morning after the child's funeral, her husband being abroad, about eleven in the forenoon,
Mrs. Leckie the younger goes up into her chamber to dress her head, and as she was looking
into the glass she spies her mother-in-law, the old beldam, looking over her shoulder. This
cast her into a great horror; but recollecting her affrighted spirits, and recovering the exercise
of her reason, faith, and hope, having cast up a short and silent prayer to God, she turns
about, and bespeaks her: 'In the name of God, mother, why do you trouble me?' 'Peace,' says
the spectrum; 'I will do thee no hurt.' 'What will you have of me?' says the daughter," &c.[86]
Dunton, the narrator and probably the contriver of the story, proceeds to inform us at length
of a commission which the wife of Mr. Leckie receives from the ghost to deliver to Atherton,
Bishop of Waterford, a guilty and unfortunate man, who afterwards died by the hands of the
executioner; but that part of the subject is too disagreeable and tedious to enter upon.

[Footnote 86: "Apparition Evidence."]

So deep was the impression made by the story on the inhabitants of Mynehead, that it is said
the tradition of Mrs. Leckie still remains in that port, and that mariners belonging to it
often, amid tempestuous weather, conceive they hear the whistle-call of the implacable hag
who was the source of so much mischief to her own family. However, already too desultory and
too long, it would become intolerably tedious were I to insist farther on the peculiar sort
of genius by which stories of this kind may be embodied and prolonged.

