     "I beg you now, that you will join me in drinking the health
     of another man whom we all love to honor,--the man who, when
     elected President of the United States, was compelled to
     reach the seat of government without an escort, but a man
     who now could travel all over our country with millions of
     hands and hearts to sustain him. I give you the good, the
     great, the honest man, Abraham Lincoln."

How little we dreamed, as the cheers, twice repeated, went around, that at that self-same hour
the honored President lay prostrate and dying in the National Capital from the bullet of an
assassin.

     "Thus grief ever treads upon the heels of pleasure"--
     "And all alike await the inevitable hour;
     The paths of glory lead but to the grave."

Having now remained at the hotel over an hour, we went out to look after our colored coachman,
only to find, as we might have expected, that he had given us the slip. But we took possession
of another carriage that fortunately came up, and, in answer to the sable inquiry, "Am Colonel
Fuller ready for de ball?" we kindly informed our colored friend that if he would take us to
the ball, the Colonel would undoubtedly be ready by the time he returned. Thus assured, he
started off with us over a very dark and rough road, through the burnt district, till we stopped
at length before a fine old mansion on East Bay street, brilliantly illuminated, from which
sounds of music and festivity proceeded. Here, we were told, was the scene of another grand
ball, given by the Confederates in honor of the fall of Sumter, just four years before. Some
of the same negroes who served at the first ball, as slaves, now attended the second as free
and independent waiters. I purchased of one of them for a nominal sum quite a collection of
Confederate currency, a Palmetto brass button, and a quaint Pompeiian lamp, which are still
preserved as mementoes of the occasion. We were told "dat Massa Middleton used to own de place,"
but, as the darkeys sing:

     "He saw a smoke way down de ribber,
       Where de Lincum gunboats lay,
     He took his hat, an' lef' berry sudden,
       An' I 'specs he's run'd away!"

So the fine estate, with its broad verandas, and elegant mirrors and paintings on the walls,
all became, including the darkeys, "contraband of war."

The next day was Saturday, and it was announced that the "Oceanus" would sail at five in the
afternoon. The hour of departure was afterwards postponed to Sunday morning at nine o'clock,
by advice of the pilot. We visited various points of interest on Saturday, including the office
of the Charleston Mercury, where we secured some interesting papers, which are referred to
in the Appendix. We also saw the slave-marts, where families had so long been bought and sold
like cattle. I secured a bill of sale of a slave who was described as "a negro fellow called
Simon." The seller's name was Mordecai, and the buyer of "the sole use of Simon forever," was
a Mr. Lazarus.

During the morning, one of our lady passengers was accosted by an aged black woman with a hen
and a bag of eggs, as follows: "Missus, I want to gib de northern ladies sumthin', but I have
nuthin' but this yer hen, and these yer eggs. Won't you take 'em?" This was too much for the
sympathetic nature of Mrs. B----, but what to do with the hen and her products so far from
home, was the question. Finally the eggs were taken and the hen left. The woman was rewarded
and departed in much delight. On the homeward voyage a gentleman proposed to take them up to
his country seat in New York State, and put them under the care of the most motherly hen of
his large flock. This was done with the following result:

     "JUNE 10, 1865.

     "I am happy to inform you that the Charleston hen has done
     her duty as well as could be expected under the
     circumstances. The eggs were evidently the product of
     secession times, and stoutly resisted all northern
     influences. But the mother hen determined, 'a la General
     Grant,' to set it out on this nest 'if it took all summer!'
     A great destruction of capital has been the result, but
     'victory at last' has rewarded her efforts, and she is now
     followed by a train of four bipeds, one black, one white,
     and two octoroons. I have neglected to tell you that the
     mother hen is black, and struts with pompous pride above her
     white and octoroon subjects. 'Let us have peace.'"

My record would be incomplete without a brief description of the freedmen's meetings on Saturday.
We found Citadel square almost impassable with the dense crowds of negroes, while hundreds
of children were marching through the streets singing "John Brown." The principal gathering
was in Zion's Church, where more than three thousand colored people were crowded together.
One of the speakers from the north, William Lloyd Garrison, the veteran abolitionist, was surrounded
by the freedmen as he entered the church, and borne on their shoulders amid great enthusiasm
to the platform. Then the surging multitude sang, with thrilling power and effect:

     "Roll, Jordan, roll, the year of Jubilee;"

and another song, beginning:

     "Blow, blow your trumpet, Gabriel!"

How they all shouted at the first mention of the name of Lincoln! "Spread it abroad," said
Hon. Henry Wilson, "all over South Carolina, that the black men of South Carolina know no master
now, and that they are slaves no more forever! [Great cheering.] Abraham Lincoln, President
of the United States [tremendous cheering and waving of hats and handkerchiefs], with twenty-five
millions of freemen by his side, and seven hundred thousand bayonets behind him, has decreed
it, and it will stand while the world stands, that the black men of South Carolina can never
more be slaves! [Loud cheers.] They have robbed your cradles; they have sold your children;
they have separated husband and wife, father and mother and child. [Cries of 'Yes! yes! yes!']
They shall separate you no more! ['Hallelujah! bress de Lord!'] The long, dreary night of slavery
has passed away forever. ['Amen! amen! amen!'] Remember that you are now to be obedient, faithful,
true and loyal to your country forevermore!" [Cheers and cries of 'Yes! yes! yes!']

     "OLE MASSA RUN--HA! HA!
     DE DARKEYS STAY--HO! HO!"]

Twenty years have passed since the emancipation of this race, and while a great work has been
accomplished for their education, aided by the princely gifts of such philanthropists as George
Peabody and John F. Slater, of New England, it is also true that much remains to be done. There
still appears to exist among the ruling class in the south a tendency to put barriers in the
way of the poor and ignorant masses, and hinder them in the exercise of their personal and
political rights. "This is a white man's government," exclaims the solid south to-day, as in
1860. And again let the loyal answer go forth, as from the lips of the lamented Lincoln, at
Gettysburg, twenty years ago, "This is a government of the people, by the people, and for the
people, without distinction of race or color." The most serious danger which threatens our
country to-day, is the ignorance of the masses, both white and black, north as well as south.
This class in many States holds the balance of power, and has become a most dangerous force
in the hands of educated but unprincipled leaders. The beneficent influences of Christianity
and universal education are necessary to lift the masses from their servile position, and enable
them to think and vote for themselves. Nor should they be allowed to vote until they can read
and write. Education and suffrage should go hand in hand.

CONCLUSION.

On the morning of Sunday, the sixteenth of April, 1865, the good steamer "Oceanus," gay with
crowds of passengers, and proudly waving flags and signals, steamed slowly down Charleston
harbor homeward bound. As she passed the fleet, parting salutations were exchanged with the
monitors, men-of-war, and the smaller boats passing to and fro. We turned to take a last survey
of the city in the distance, the forts, and shores thickly studded with now peaceful batteries.
As we passed abreast of Fort Sumter, where, as at Lexington a hundred years ago, "was fired
the shot heard 'round the world," every head was uncovered, while we reverently sang, the band
accompanying:

     "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow,"

followed by the sweet strains of:

     "My country, 'tis of thee,
     Sweet land of liberty."

Immediately the colors on the fort were dipped, and the sentinels on the walls waved their
adieus with caps and bayonets. At length we crossed the bar and took leave of the pilot.

As the shores of South Carolina faded in the distance, and the walls of the storied fort sank
below the gray horizon, we bade farewell to scenes which, however changed by the ceaseless
march of time, must always possess a charm indescribable. Religious services were held in the
cabin at eleven o'clock, and again during the evening. The sound of merriment was hushed, and
all seemed to realize that it was the Sabbath. Indeed, it was observed by one of the speakers,
that he had not heard a word of profanity or seen any one under the influence of intoxicating
beverages during the voyage.

Monday followed without important incident, save that at five o'clock in the afternoon we safely
rounded Cape Hatteras with a gentle reminder of the old couplet:

     "If the Bermudas let you pass,
     You must beware of Hatteras!"

Tuesday morning, when about thirty miles south of Fortress Monroe, and while most of the passengers
were at breakfast, a steamer was observed in the distance with her flag at half-mast. Various
were the conjectures for whom it could be. We had been without news from the north for more
than a week; what could have happened?

Presently a pilot-boat, with her colors also at half-mast, appeared within hailing distance.

"What's the news?" was eagerly shouted from the "Oceanus."

"The President is dead," came faintly back, with startling effect, over the water. Immediately
the breakfast tables were deserted, and the passengers gathered in astonished groups on deck,
exclaiming, "It cannot be!" "We do not believe it!" But a second pilot-boat could now be seen
with her flag, half-hoisted, drooping from the halyards. Again the earnest inquiry, "What's
the news?"

"President Lincoln is dead."

"How did he die?"

"He was assassinated in Washington."

Then stout hearts trembled with dismay, and men unused to tears turned pale and wept. As we
passed vessel after vessel, we obtained further particulars of the cruel tragedy, and the feeling
of gloom and indignation which prevailed was deep and indescribable. Nothing else was thought
or talked of, till we arrived at the fortress. On landing, I purchased a Richmond paper, containing
a full account of the assassination, the murderous attack upon Secretary Seward and his sons,
with the plot to remove General Grant and the entire Cabinet. We found the entrance to the
fortress draped in mourning, and the saddest reminders of all were the portraits of the departed
President, deeply hung with crape, in the various offices. We made but a brief stay at the
splendid fortress, with its powerful armament, where, a few weeks later, Jefferson Davis was
brought and confined as a prisoner of war. We could plainly discern "the Rip Raps" and Sewall's
Point, and the locality was pointed out "in the Roads," where the little Monitor defeated the
Merrimac, in 1862, and saved the Union fleet. The story of this famous battle, and the revolution
it produced in naval warfare, has been graphically recited by Comrade F.B. Butts.

But the sad intelligence from the Capital had crushed the desire for sight-seeing, and all
seemed anxious to get home with the least possible delay. After taking a supply of coal and
water, and landing four or five blockade-runners who had secreted themselves in our coal-bunkers
at Charleston, we were again "homeward bound."

Wednesday morning found us well on our voyage to New York, with continued pleasant weather.
At half-past ten, the Sumter Club, which had been organized, held a meeting, and the rebel
flag of Fort Moultrie was formally presented to the Club. It was voted to procure a suitable
gold badge, with Fort Sumter engraved upon it, for each member. It was further voted that every
passenger who sailed from New York for Charleston on the "Oceanus" should be entitled to membership.

Appropriate services were held on board at eleven o'clock, the hour at which the funeral obsequies
of the President were being solemnized in Washington.

At three o'clock we were opposite Coney Island, and entering the Narrows. After a short detention
at quarantine, we rapidly passed the light-houses and forts and the fleet of shipping, moving
and at anchor about the great metropolis, and drew into the dock at the foot of Robinson street
as the city bells struck five. Hasty farewells were exchanged with friends on board, mingled
with greetings from friends on shore. Making my way with difficulty through the crowds of people
and among teams, drays and carriages, I at length emerged into the streets of New York.

But what a change! The city was in mourning! Ten days before, every highway and avenue had
been resplendent with flags and streamers; and a whole city had celebrated with joy and thanksgiving
the return of peace and the triumph of loyalty over armed rebellion. We had sailed to the metropolis
of the south, the Cradle of the Rebellion, and found it a city in ruins. There, where the national
ensign had been first dishonored, we had seen it uplifted and restored with imposing ceremonies,
amid the shouts of a race redeemed and set free. To-day we had returned to find New York as
mournful as Charleston. A national calamity had filled the land with mourning. From every flag-staff
the "stars and stripes," shrouded in black, drooped at half-mast. From the houses of rich and
poor alike, hung the emblems of the universal sorrow. It is estimated that not less than five
hundred thousand people, the representatives of all classes, crowded the entrances to the City
Hall to take a last look at the familiar features of the beloved President, who had so endeared
himself to all parties by his patience, wisdom and fidelity during his long and difficult term
of service. Just before the fall of Richmond he uttered those ever-memorable words, his fitting
epitaph: "With malice towards none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God
gives us to see the right, let us strive to finish the work we are in, and do all which may
achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations." His work
was finished. The nation was reunited, and at peace with all the world. As we enjoy to-day
the blessings of peace and orderly progress let us never forget the name of Lincoln. Let us
ever remember at what a fearful sacrifice of precious blood and treasure, Liberty and Union
were maintained, and "the flag replaced on Sumter."

[Music: VICTORY AT LAST.

SONG AND CHORUS.

Words by MRS. M.A. KIDDER. Music by WM. B. BRADBURY.

     1. For many years we've waited
       To hail the day of peace,
     When our land should be united,
       And war and strife should cease;
     And now that day approaches,
       The drums are beating fast,
     And all the boys are coming home,
       There's victory at last.

