It is customary for Unitarians themselves to-day to look back on these years of early zeal
and controversy with but a qualified sympathy, so much was still cherished in the body as a
whole that is no longer tenable, and again so much that was undreamed then is indispensable
to modern thought. One of the greatest of Unitarians, Dr. Martineau, whose important share
in the development of their ideas and life must be considered farther on, referred in a discourse
of about forty years ago to three distinct stages in Unitarian theology. First, he pointed
to the significance of the struggle for the principle of 'Unity in the Divine causation,' as
against a doctrine which, as Unitarians maintain, endeavours in vain by words to prevent a
triplicity of 'Persons' from sliding into a group of three Divine Beings. This struggle marks
in great part the whole track by which the reader has come thus far in the present story. The
second stage, according to Dr. Martineau, is that in which the Conscience of Man is emphasized,
in virtue of the belief in a real responsibility and an actual power to choose the right or
the wrong. This 'Religion of Conscience' he sees especially illustrated in the principles enunciated
and the work accomplished by Channing; perhaps it would be fair to say that many who had preceded
the American leader were imbued with a measure of his wisdom when they insisted, as we have
seen, on the adaptability of the pure Gospel message to the needs and understanding of men
everywhere, and declared that its aim was 'to make men good and keep them so.' The third stage,
which Dr. Martineau considered to be fully begun at the time of his sermon (1869), is that
of the 'Religion of the Spirit,' in which the ideas of the Divine Sovereignty and the Human
Duty are rounded into vital beauty and completeness by the idea of the actual relation of Man
to God as a Son to a Father.

We have referred in advance to this compendious view in order to show whither the sequel is
to lead us, but before this all-important development can be traced there remains one more
piece of external history to be supplied. Happily it may be dealt with summarily.

QUESTIONS OF INHERITANCE

The bitterness of theological discussion which troubled the earlier decades of the nineteenth
century received new provocation in the shape of litigation about property. Both in England
and America the right of Unitarianism was challenged to hold those Meeting Houses and Parish
Churches respectively, to which allusion was made in our opening pages. In New England the
chief matter of contention was settled as early as 1818. In the Old Country the struggle was
much more protracted, and was only brought to an end by special legislation in 1844.

The American dispute may be briefly stated. In consequence of the growing and unconcealed departure
of the liberal Congregationalists from the doctrinal standards of the past there arose a feeling
among the conservatives that the former group should go out of fellowship, but the communal
conditions of the parish made this out of the question. All the citizens had a right to share
in the provision for religion which was made at the general cost. An acute difficulty, however,
presented itself in regard to the choice of minister. Should he be of the orthodox or the heterodox
type? The appointment being for life made an election most critical. An incident of this kind
occurred at Dedham, Mass., and coming into the courts led to a decision in favour of the liberals,
i.e. of the 'Unitarianizers.' The case was argued in this way: A majority of members on the
register being in favour of one type, are they at liberty to choose as they will? Or have the
citizens at large, being contributories to the maintenance funds, a right to vote? It was decided
by the courts that the popular right was valid as against the wishes of any inner and covenanted
group of worshippers. This meant, in substance, that orthodox voters were outvoted by heterodox
voters who had not enrolled themselves by a religious pledge. The chagrin of the defeated conservatives
was naturally great, and harsh language ensued. The upshot was unaffected, of course, and time
alone has had to soften the angry feelings which for a long time kept the two wings of New
England Congregationalism hostile, to the regret of good men on each side. In recent years
very friendly relationships have been happily set up, while the Unitarians remain undisputed
heirs of the old Parish Churches. It should be carefully noted, however, that in 1833 the communal
support of religion was abolished, and all religious bodies in the United States have been
dependent since then upon private resources.

In England the orthodox opponents of Unitarianism tried to oust the heterodox congregations
of the old Meeting Houses. A suit for possession of endowment funds which was finally decided
against the Unitarians of Wolverhampton began in 1817; and a strongly organized attack followed
in 1825. A rich fund for ministerial support, Lady Hewley's Charity, was, after actions carried
to the highest court, declared not to be applicable to the assistance of Unitarians. This decision,
in 1842, looked like the beginning of the end for the tenure of the Meeting Houses themselves,
the Wolverhampton case being now decided on the lines of the Hewley judgment. But an Act of
Parliament--the Dissenters' Chapels Act--passed in 1844 (owing in some part to the powerful
support of Mr. W.E. Gladstone), secured the congregations in undisturbed possession. The principle
of this law applies to all places of worship held upon 'Open,' i.e. non-doctrinal Trusts; where
the congregation can show that the present usage agrees substantially with that of the past
twenty-five years, it is not to be ejected. At the time of this litigation the term 'English
Presbyterian' came much into vogue among Unitarians, and for some time there was a marked abatement
of propagandist zeal.

MODERN UNITARIANISM

I. THE COMMUNITIES

Having now followed the fortunes of the Unitarians up to the point where they obtained a recognized
position among religious organizations, we need not enter into the minute details of their
denominational history. Less than seventy years have elapsed since the passing of the Dissenters'
Chapels Act, and less than a century since the judgment in the Dedham case. The congregational
increase, though substantial, has not been great; Unitarians claim rather to have influenced
the advance of thought in other denominations than to have created one more sect. At present
their numerical strength may be estimated from the following particulars.

In the British Isles and colonial centres there are nearly four hundred places of worship,
and a similar number of ministers; in many cases the congregations are small, and the list
of ministers includes some that are retired and others who are regarded as 'lay-workers' only.
There are about five hundred ministers and congregations in the United States. Two or three
colleges in England and a similar number in America train students for the ministry, but many
join the ranks from other denominations. Women are eligible as ministers, but actual instances
are rare. Local unions exist to a fairly adequate extent. In England and America National Conferences
meet at intervals; the Unitarian Associations continuously publish literature, send out lecturers,
and promote new congregations. There are several periodicals. The most noteworthy in England
is the Hibbert Journal, which follows in the line of other reviews of high standard in past
years, and which specially illustrates the spirit animating a large and influential section
of the body. It is promoted for free and open intercourse between serious thinkers of all schools
of theological and social philosophy, and is reported to have a circulation quite beyond that
of any similar publication. The 'Hibbert Lectures,' connected with the trust founded in 1847
for the diffusion of 'Christianity in its simplest and most intelligible form,' further exemplify
the broad interpretation of this duty. Scholars of different churches have contributed to the
series of volumes well known to religious students. The principle followed in general is stated
in the oft-quoted phrase--'Free Learning and Free Teaching in Theology.'

It is needful, perhaps, to guard against the inference that the Unitarian movement is only,
or in the main, an intellectual one. Since 1833, in consequence of a visit by Dr. Joseph Tuckerman,
from Boston, 'Domestic Missions' were founded, to promote the religious improvement of the
neglected poor, and to-day this kind of work still goes on with much social benefit in our
larger cities. Similar benevolence has marked the American side. Many congregations, too, are
composed largely of working-people, and in recent years a Van Mission has carried the Unitarian
message into the country villages, mining districts, and other populous parts. These aspects
of their activity are apt to be obscured owing to a pardonable disposition of Unitarianism
to point to the 'great names' associated with their churches. In the American list, for example,
we find Emerson, Longfellow, O.W. Holmes, Bryant, Hawthorne--Whittier and Lowell had close
affinities; Bancroft, Motley, Prescott, Parkman; Margaret Fuller, Louisa Alcott; and statesmen,
jurists, merchants, and scientists too numerous to set down here. Obviously, the English side
cannot rival such a brilliant roll; the élite of society has not been here, as in New England,
on the side of the newer theology. Yet English Unitarianism has its eminent mimes also, alike
in literature, science, politics, philanthropy, and scholarship of various kinds; and the body
is credited with a civic strength out of proportion to the number of its avowed adherents,
while its philanthropies have been of the same broad and enlightened kind as those which enrich
the American record.

II. IDEAS AND TENDENCIES

More important to the general public is the question of ideas which now prevail among Unitarians.
Our preceding sketch has shown some of the results of the freedom claimed by them in one generation
after another. We have now to see in what respects the nineteenth century effected a further
change.

In the first third of the century there can be no doubt that Unitarians adhered tenaciously,
but with discrimination, to the idea of the final authority of the Bible. In this respect they
were like Protestants generally, and though they nevertheless brought 'reason' to bear on their
reading of the Scriptures, other Protestants did the same, if to a less degree. Both in the
United States and in England this attitude was still common up till nearly the middle of the
century, and instances could easily be found later still. The miraculous element was thus retained,
though as we have seen as early as in Priestley's case there was a tendency to eliminate some
part of the supernatural. That a thoroughgoing belief could be stated in good round terms is
evident from the following sentence taken from a book issued by Dr. Orville Dewey (1794-1882),
one of the most eloquent pulpit orators of his day. The book is entitled Unitarian Belief,
its date is 1839. Referring to the Bible the author says, 'Enough is it for us, that the matter
is divine, the doctrines true, the history authentic, the miracles real, the promises glorious,
the threatenings fearful.' There is good ground for taking this as a fair example of the ideas
prevalent among American Unitarians at that time. Perhaps the statement was made the more emphatic
in view of some remarks recently uttered by two young men whose influence, along with more
general tendencies, proved fatal to the old doctrine.

One of these young men was James Martineau (1805-1900), who at the age of thirty-one was already
known as a writer and preacher far above the average. He was then resident in Liverpool, where
he wrote a remarkable little book with the title The Rationale of Religious Inquiry (1886).
More than fifty years later he published an even more remarkable book, The Seat of Authority
in Religion. There is, indeed, half a century of development between the two books, yet the
germinal thought of the second may be detected in the first. The point at issue is where the
ultimate appeal should lie in matters of religion. With the keen eye for the weaknesses of
his fellow-worshippers which always characterized him, Martineau said, 'The Unitarian takes
with him [to the study of the Bible] the persuasion that nothing can be scriptural which is
not rational and universal.' This fixed opinion, which he ranks along with the foregone conclusions
of other types of theologian, was just that which we have observed in the general course of
liberals from Locke onwards. Though in a note Martineau concedes that his words may somewhat
strongly accentuate the common opinion, he represents Unitarians as virtually saying, 'If we
could find the doctrines of the Trinity and the Atonement, and everlasting torments in the
Scriptures, we should believe them; we reject them, not because we deem them unreasonable,
but because we perceive them to be unscriptural. For my own part, I confess myself unable to
adopt this language'--not, he says, but that he does think them actually 'unscriptural.' 'But
I am prepared to maintain, that if they were in the Bible, they would still be incredible....
Reason is the ultimate appeal, the supreme tribunal, to which the test of even Scripture must
be brought.' It abates nothing from the force of these declarations that then, and for some
time afterwards, Martineau himself accepted the miracles. The 'old school' perceived the sharp
edge of such a weapon, and its wielder was during many years regarded as a 'dangerous' innovator.

The other young writer to whom reference has been made was Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-82), son
and grandson of ministers of the liberal Congregational type in New England and himself for
a short time minister of the Second Church, Boston. Preferring the freedom of the lecturing
platform, Emerson had already withdrawn from the ministry, but in 1838 he gave an 'Address
to the Senior Class' in the Divinity School, Harvard, which proved a second landmark in the
history of American Unitarianism. Nineteen years before, Channing had decisively pointed out
that Unitarianism and orthodoxy are two distinct theologies. In the Divinity School Address,
Emerson maintained that the idea of 'supernaturalism' is rendered obsolete by a recognition
of the reality of things. Bringing a gift of pungent prose to the service of a poetic imagination,
Emerson startled the decorously dignified authorities of the New England pulpit; he 'saved
us,' says Lowell, 'from the body of this death.' He pointed from the record of miracles past
to an ever-present miracle. To the illumination of 'reason,' which Unitarians had followed
so loyally--within the proviso of a special revelation--he brought the light of a mystic intuition.
Some of his elders judged it to be 'false fire' perilously akin to the 'enthusiasm' which their
predecessors had so often condemned. In daring simplicity he urged that there had been 'noxious
exaggeration about the person of Jesus.' 'The soul knows no persons.' The divine is always
latent in the human. Revelation is not ended--as if God were dead!

