THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND

by Jules Verne

1874

PART 1--DROPPED FROM THE CLOUDS

Chapter 1

"Are we rising again?" "No. On the contrary." "Are we descending?" "Worse than that, captain!
we are falling!" "For Heaven's sake heave out the ballast!" "There! the last sack is empty!"
"Does the balloon rise?" "No!" "I hear a noise like the dashing of waves. The sea is below
the car! It cannot be more than 500 feet from us!" "Overboard with every weight! ... everything!"

Such were the loud and startling words which resounded through the air, above the vast watery
desert of the Pacific, about four o'clock in the evening of the 23rd of March, 1865.

Few can possibly have forgotten the terrible storm from the northeast, in the middle of the
equinox of that year. The tempest raged without intermission from the 18th to the 26th of March.
Its ravages were terrible in America, Europe, and Asia, covering a distance of eighteen hundred
miles, and extending obliquely to the equator from the thirty-fifth north parallel to the fortieth
south parallel. Towns were overthrown, forests uprooted, coasts devastated by the mountains
of water which were precipitated on them, vessels cast on the shore, which the published accounts
numbered by hundreds, whole districts leveled by waterspouts which destroyed everything they
passed over, several thousand people crushed on land or drowned at sea; such were the traces
of its fury, left by this devastating tempest. It surpassed in disasters those which so frightfully
ravaged Havana and Guadalupe, one on the 25th of October, 1810, the other on the 26th of July,
1825.

But while so many catastrophes were taking place on land and at sea, a drama not less exciting
was being enacted in the agitated air.

In fact, a balloon, as a ball might be carried on the summit of a waterspout, had been taken
into the circling movement of a column of air and had traversed space at the rate of ninety
miles an hour, turning round and round as if seized by some aerial maelstrom.

Beneath the lower point of the balloon swung a car, containing five passengers, scarcely visible
in the midst of the thick vapor mingled with spray which hung over the surface of the ocean.

Whence, it may be asked, had come that plaything of the tempest? From what part of the world
did it rise? It surely could not have started during the storm. But the storm had raged five
days already, and the first symptoms were manifested on the 18th. It cannot be doubted that
the balloon came from a great distance, for it could not have traveled less than two thousand
miles in twenty-four hours.

At any rate the passengers, destitute of all marks for their guidance, could not have possessed
the means of reckoning the route traversed since their departure. It was a remarkable fact
that, although in the very midst of the furious tempest, they did not suffer from it. They
were thrown about and whirled round and round without feeling the rotation in the slightest
degree, or being sensible that they were removed from a horizontal position.

Their eyes could not pierce through the thick mist which had gathered beneath the car. Dark
vapor was all around them. Such was the density of the atmosphere that they could not be certain
whether it was day or night. No reflection of light, no sound from inhabited land, no roaring
of the ocean could have reached them, through the obscurity, while suspended in those elevated
zones. Their rapid descent alone had informed them of the dangers which they ran from the waves.
However, the balloon, lightened of heavy articles, such as ammunition, arms, and provisions,
had risen into the higher layers of the atmosphere, to a height of 4,500 feet. The voyagers,
after having discovered that the sea extended beneath them, and thinking the dangers above
less dreadful than those below, did not hesitate to throw overboard even their most useful
articles, while they endeavored to lose no more of that fluid, the life of their enterprise,
which sustained them above the abyss.

The night passed in the midst of alarms which would have been death to less energetic souls.
Again the day appeared and with it the tempest began to moderate. From the beginning of that
day, the 24th of March, it showed symptoms of abating. At dawn, some of the lighter clouds
had risen into the more lofty regions of the air. In a few hours the wind had changed from
a hurricane to a fresh breeze, that is to say, the rate of the transit of the atmospheric layers
was diminished by half. It was still what sailors call "a close-reefed topsail breeze," but
the commotion in the elements had none the less considerably diminished.

Towards eleven o'clock, the lower region of the air was sensibly clearer. The atmosphere threw
off that chilly dampness which is felt after the passage of a great meteor. The storm did not
seem to have gone farther to the west. It appeared to have exhausted itself. Could it have
passed away in electric sheets, as is sometimes the case with regard to the typhoons of the
Indian Ocean?

But at the same time, it was also evident that the balloon was again slowly descending with
a regular movement. It appeared as if it were, little by little, collapsing, and that its case
was lengthening and extending, passing from a spherical to an oval form. Towards midday the
balloon was hovering above the sea at a height of only 2,000 feet. It contained 50,000 cubic
feet of gas, and, thanks to its capacity, it could maintain itself a long time in the air,
although it should reach a great altitude or might be thrown into a horizontal position.

Perceiving their danger, the passengers cast away the last articles which still weighed down
the car, the few provisions they had kept, everything, even to their pocket-knives, and one
of them, having hoisted himself on to the circles which united the cords of the net, tried
to secure more firmly the lower point of the balloon.

It was, however, evident to the voyagers that the gas was failing, and that the balloon could
no longer be sustained in the higher regions. They must infallibly perish!

There was not a continent, nor even an island, visible beneath them. The watery expanse did
not present a single speck of land, not a solid surface upon which their anchor could hold.

It was the open sea, whose waves were still dashing with tremendous violence! It was the ocean,
without any visible limits, even for those whose gaze, from their commanding position, extended
over a radius of forty miles. The vast liquid plain, lashed without mercy by the storm, appeared
as if covered with herds of furious chargers, whose white and disheveled crests were streaming
in the wind. No land was in sight, not a solitary ship could be seen. It was necessary at any
cost to arrest their downward course, and to prevent the balloon from being engulfed in the
waves. The voyagers directed all their energies to this urgent work. But, notwithstanding their
efforts, the balloon still fell, and at the same time shifted with the greatest rapidity, following
the direction of the wind, that is to say, from the northeast to the southwest.

Frightful indeed was the situation of these unfortunate men. They were evidently no longer
masters of the machine. All their attempts were useless. The case of the balloon collapsed
more and more. The gas escaped without any possibility of retaining it. Their descent was visibly
accelerated, and soon after midday the car hung within 600 feet of the ocean.

