And so things went on, the same way, a little longer. Poor Lena was not feeling any joy to
have a baby. She was scared the way she had been when she was so sick on the water. She was
scared now every time when anything would hurt her. She was scared and still and lifeless,
and sure that every minute she would die. Lena had no power to be strong in this kind of trouble,
she could only sit still and be scared, and dull, and lifeless, and sure that every minute
she would die.

Before very long, Lena had her baby. He was a good, healthy little boy, the baby. Herman cared
very much to have the baby. When Lena was a little stronger he took a house next door to the
old couple, so he and his own family could eat and sleep and do the way they wanted. This did
not seem to make much change now for Lena. She was just the same as when she was waiting with
her baby. She just dragged around and was careless with her clothes and all lifeless, and she
acted always and lived on just as if she had no feeling. She always did everything regular
with the work, the way she always had had to do it, but she never got back any spirit in her.
Herman was always good and kind, and always helped her with her working. He did everything
he knew to help her. He always did all the active new things in the house and for the baby.
Lena did what she had to do the way she always had been taught it. She always just kept going
now with her working, and she was always careless, and dirty, and a little dazed, and lifeless.
Lena never got any better in herself of this way of being that she had had ever since she had
been married.

Mrs. Haydon never saw any more of her niece, Lena. Mrs. Haydon had now so much trouble with
her own house, and her daughters getting married, and her boy, who was growing up, and who
always was getting so much worse to manage. She knew she had done right by Lena. Herman Kreder
was a good man, she would be glad to get one so good, sometimes, for her own daughters, and
now they had a home to live in together, separate from the old people, who had made their trouble
for them. Mrs. Haydon felt she had done very well by her niece, Lena, and she never thought
now she needed any more to go and see her. Lena would do very well now without her aunt to
trouble herself any more about her.

The good german cook who had always scolded, still tried to do her duty like a mother to poor
Lena. It was very hard now to do right by Lena. Lena never seemed to hear now what anyone was
saying to her. Herman was always doing everything he could to help her. Herman always, when
he was home, took good care of the baby. Herman loved to take care of his baby. Lena never
thought to take him out or to do anything she didn't have to.

The good cook sometimes made Lena come to see her. Lena would come with her baby and sit there
in the kitchen, and watch the good woman cooking, and listen to her sometimes a little, the
way she used to, while the good german woman scolded her for going around looking so careless
when now she had no trouble, and sitting there so dull, and always being just so thankless.
Sometimes Lena would wake up a little and get back into her face her old, gentle, patient,
and unsuffering sweetness, but mostly Lena did not seem to hear much when the good german woman
scolded. Lena always liked it when Mrs. Aldrich her good mistress spoke to her kindly, and
then Lena would seem to go back and feel herself to be like she was when she had been in service.
But mostly Lena just lived along and was careless in her clothes, and dull, and lifeless.

By and by Lena had two more little babies. Lena was not so much scared now when she had the
babies. She did not seem to notice very much when they hurt her, and she never seemed to feel
very much now about anything that happened to her.

They were very nice babies, all these three that Lena had, and Herman took good care of them
always. Herman never really cared much about his wife, Lena. The only things Herman ever really
cared for were his babies. Herman always was very good to his children. He always had a gentle,
tender way when he held them. He learned to be very handy with them. He spent all the time
he was not working, with them. By and by he began to work all day in his own home so that he
could have his children always in the same room with him.

Lena always was more and more lifeless and Herman now mostly never thought about her. He more
and more took all the care of their three children. He saw to their eating right and their
washing, and he dressed them every morning, and he taught them the right way to do things,
and he put them to their sleeping, and he was now always every minute with them. Then there
was to come to them, a fourth baby. Lena went to the hospital near by to have the baby. Lena
seemed to be going to have much trouble with it. When the baby was come out at last, it was
like its mother lifeless. While it was coming, Lena had grown very pale and sicker. When it
was all over Lena had died, too, and nobody knew just how it had happened to her.

The good german cook who had always scolded Lena, and had always to the last day tried to help
her, was the only one who ever missed her. She remembered how nice Lena had looked all the
time she was in service with her, and how her voice had been so gentle and sweet-sounding,
and how she always was a good girl, and how she never had to have any trouble with her, the
way she always had with all the other girls who had been taken into the house to help her.
The good cook sometimes spoke so of Lena when she had time to have a talk with Mrs. Aldrich,
and this was all the remembering there now ever was of Lena.

Herman Kreder now always lived very happy, very gentle, very quiet, very well content alone
with his three children. He never had a woman any more to be all the time around him. He always
did all his own work in his house, when he was through every day with the work he was always
doing for his father. Herman always was alone, and he always worked alone, until his little
ones were big enough to help him. Herman Kreder was very well content now and he always lived
very regular and peaceful, and with every day just like the next one, always alone now with
his three good, gentle children.

FINIS