Out in Colorado, high up the side of a mountain, where the snow never melts in the crevices,
may be seen two long ravines, one straight up and down, the other straight across. The snow
is packed into those ravines all through the year, and lifting the eyes one may see upon the
lofty mountain side the Holy Cross.

In the summer seas, one of the things that mariners are guided by and that tourists look for,
is the Southern Cross. There it is, fashioned by the position of the stars in the clear skies
of the tropics.

There are many men who wear a cross as a watch fob. There are women who wear a cross as a pendant
about the neck. This is an outward sign of an inner devotion. The important thing, my dear
young Christians, is to have the cross, its power and meaning, stamped upon one's heart. Is
that where you wear the Saviour's cross?

MEMORY VERSE, I Corinthians 1: 18

    "For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish
    foolishness; but unto them which are saved it is the power of
    God."

MEMORY HYMN [143]

    "In the cross of Christ I glory."

EASTER LIGHT

This glad morning, when the world is so bright and beautiful, I want to talk to you about Easter
Light.

One of the most interesting men in our city is a man who goes about our streets with two long
sticks. He is the lamplighter. Here he comes down the street! See how he pauses at each lamp
post. With one stick he pulls the little chain that turns on the gas; with the other he sets
the light going. He walks into the dark, but he leaves behind him miles of lighted streets.
I hope we shall have always many streets lighted with gas, for I love to see the lamplighter
dot his way along the streets and avenues with lighted periods.

In the center of our city is the tall Electric Light Building. On the very tip of the tower
is a high power electric light. It is lighted every evening from eight to eleven o'clock. Children,
looking out of their windows as they go to bed, think that it is another star in the sky, it
is so bright and steady.

More wonderful than any of these lights is the source of all light. It is the light that God
provides for all of his children. The sun warms our fields, makes our gardens grow, and causes
our harvests to prosper. The sun never fails us.

Now there is another light, a light that is above even the sun. That is the light of Easter
day. The tomb of death is no longer dark, for the resurrection light brightens every corner
and shines in radiance through the open doorway. The light of Easter also lights up the windows
of our heavenly home. When you are out of an evening it is not pleasant to return to a dark
house. There is a wondrous welcome in lighted windows. That welcome God gives us in the light
of Easter day. Christ, and his resurrection, shine in the windows of heaven to greet us when
we go home.

MEMORY HYMN [156]

    "Christ the Lord is risen to-day."

APRIL

I have in my hand a small branch from a big tree. This branch is from an apple tree. Here are
seen the tiny buds, the promise of the blossom, and after that the fruit. Have you ever seen
an apple orchard in blossom? People rave about the cherry blossoms of Japan, and the fire trees,
flaming red, of the Philippines. I have been in both countries, but I think there is no more
beautiful sight in any country than the blossoming apple orchards of America.

As you came to church this morning you saw all along the streets and avenues hundreds of trees
like this branch, sending forth their first buds. What do these buds tell us?

First of all they tell us of God. I do not see how any one can live through the awakening spring
season and not think daily thoughts of God. Most people remember the Creator. Only one person
has ever denied God. "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." He said it to himself,
he did not dare speak it out loud.

In the second place, this branch tells us of God's Love. He, the loving Father of all people,
makes blessed provision for the care and nurture of his children. He reminds us each year,
in seedtime and harvest, of his boundless love. His love never fails. There have been many
hundreds of years in the history of the world, yet each year has had its spring, its seedtime,
and its Resurrection. Young people, let God's April speak to you.

    "When I am gone, somehow I hope that April
    Will typify my life, my faith,
    My hope of victory through the years,
    My steadiness of step, my clear and visioned eye.
    The early flowers, the birds
    Singing in the rain,
    The increasing light, the slowly opening buds,
    The almond blooms, the trees in vernal dress
    Are like the silver crown upon the head;
    A prophecy of heaven's summer time.
    Yes, even now it is the April
    Of my great immortality."

MEMORY VERSE, John 11: 25

    "Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life."

MEMORY HYMN [389]

    "Sow in the morn thy seed."

HELPING FINGERS

For three years I lived in Manila, Philippine Islands. Not far from my home was an orphanage
for children who were deaf and dumb. Frequently these children were seen at different entertainments
that were given about the city. One evening I went to attend a lecture in the Y.M.C.A. Right
in front of me sat three children. They were very quiet and orderly. When the lecture began
the boy who sat in the middle began to make his fingers go as fast as he could, the two children
on either side watching him intently. That center boy could hear, the other two were deaf.
So he heard the lecture for them and told it to them by the finger language.

One day a girl, coming out from school, got on a street car to go to her home. The car was
crowded. She found a seat next to a woman who was heavily laden with bundles. She had all she
could do to hold those bundles in her lap and keep them from falling and scattering their contents
on the floor. Then a string about one of the packages became untied. She struggled to get that
string fastened securely. She had so many packages, her fingers were numb with cold, and again
and again the string slipped just at the crucial time. Finally this school girl, who was an
attractive, well-dressed girl, reached over and placed her nicely gloved finger on the obstreperous
knot. There was a grateful smile from the troubled woman and a hearty "Thank you." The next
stop was the girl's home. As she went to the end of the car she passed a school friend who
had watched the little incident. She said to her, "I see you belong to the helping hand society."
"No," replied the girl, "not the helping hand, just the helping finger society." This is a
great society, girls and boys. Admission to it requires no initiation fee, no dues, simply
the desire and the will to be helpful wherever you are.

MEMORY VERSE, Ecclesiastes 9: 10

    "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might."

MEMORY HYMN [349]

    "Saviour, thy dying love thou gavest me."

TWO R'S AND AN A

Do you know what week this is? We have all sorts of weeks, don't we! There is Sunday School
week, Go to Church week, Boy Scout week, Red Cross week, Social Welfare week, Hospital week,
Y.W.C.A. and Y.M.C.A. week. Sometimes we wish we could have one week all to ourselves.

Well, this is a special week. It is called Good Literature week. I want to tell you about Good
Literature week by the use of these three letters, two R's and an A.

The first R stands for Read. By all means read. There is no excuse for not reading, there is
so much to read. Indeed I think that is the chief difficulty, we have too much, at least too
much of that which is not good to read. Here's the bulky daily paper. When it is delivered
there is a rush for it. The children want the comic supplement. So do some of the grownups.

    "A little nonsense now and then,
    Is relished by the wisest men."

That is true, and all right, but read something beside the comics.

The second R is Remember. You cannot remember all that you read. You can remember much. You
should train your mind to remember the best. John Ruskin, one of the most gifted of Englishmen,
said, "To this I owe all that I have of power, to the fact that when I was a boy my mother
made me learn, every day, and remember, a verse of the Bible."

Now the A. The A stands for, can you guess? It means Action. Read, remember what you read,
and then apply it, put it into action. It is a fine thing to read a story like Pollyanna and
get all excited over it. It is much finer to read Pollyanna and then put her spirit into action
in the daily life of the home.

MEMORY VERSE, Psalm 119: 11

    "Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might; not sin against
    thee."

MEMORY HYMN [201]

    "How precious is the book divine!"

CANDLE CHILDREN

What is this I have here? It is a candle in a candlestick. There is something about a candle
we all love. We have our clear gas lights and our still more brilliant electric bulbs, but
when the birthday comes we want a cake with candles on it. Think of this as a birthday candle
and let it speak to you.

First of all this candle speaks of Symmetry. How perfectly formed is this candle! It is smooth,
there are no rough places that stand out like an ugly wart on one's face. Your life should
have symmetry. God asks you to give heed to your physical, your mental and your spiritual duties
that your life may be well rounded, a life of beautiful symmetry.

Second, this candle stands for Fragrance. This is a fragrant candle. It is what is known as
a "barberry" candle. There are some children we do not like to have around, they are surly,
sulky and mean. There are others we dear love to have with us at all times. They have what
I call fragrance. They have the fragrance of thoughtfulness, the sweetness of unselfishness.

In the third place this candle means Erectness. How straight it stands in the candlestick!
Stand up straight, girls and boys. Do not stoop. Do not hump yourself over your school desk.
Walk erect. It means so much now, it will mean much more in later years. Some day, if you heed
my word, you will be grateful that the preacher once said to you so emphatically that you could
not forget, "John, Mary, stand up straight."

Fourth, the candle stands for Light. It is useless until the wick is lighted. It burns for
others. Your life is a light. Jesus wants all Christians to think of themselves as lights in
the world. "Let your light shine." Be a lighted candle for the Lord.

MEMORY VERSE, Proverbs 20: 27

    "The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord."

MEMORY HYMN [84]

    "The spacious firmament on high."

ALAS, THE MARKS

There is an old, old story about a father who had great difficulty in making his boy obey.
The boy did wrong in spite of all that the father could say or do. One day the father said
to the boy, "Here is the shed door, now every time you do wrong I am going to pound a nail
into the door." One by one the nails were pounded into the door, until it was literally filled
with nails. The boy did not like the looks of the door, the thought of it began to trouble
his conscience. So he spoke to his father about it. "Well," said his father, "I'll tell you
what we will do. Every time you are obedient, every time you do a good deed rather than a wrong
one, we will pull a nail out." The bargain was struck, and as, one by one, the nails were driven
in, so, one by one, they were pulled out.

Finally the day arrived when there was but one nail left. You can imagine the joy of the boy
when he and his father went together to pull that nail out. With great glee the claws of the
hammer were fastened about the head of Mr. Nail and, jerk, out he came. "Oh," exclaimed the
boy, "the marks are left." Yes, it was true, for every nail driven in and pulled out a mark
was left, and it was an ugly looking door. "That is the sad thing about it all," said the father,
"every time you do an evil deed a mark is left upon the life. It is never the same as if the
evil deed had not been committed. It is fine that we have all the nails out, but it would have
been much better had they never been driven in."

MEMORY VERSE, Jeremiah 2: 22

    "For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee much sope,
    yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord God."

MEMORY HYMN [348]

    "Take my life and let it be
    Consecrated, Lord, to thee."

A BLIND MAN WHO SAW

Once upon a time there was a boy who had a call to be a preacher. Now this boy was Scotch,
and the fondest ambition of a Scotch mother is that her son shall become a minister. You may
believe that this particular lad's mother was very, very happy. So George (George was his name)
went to school. He was not a brilliant student, but he was faithful, he did his work well and
passed his grades. One day he noted some difficulty with his eyes. The trouble increased rather
than diminished. Before he had finished his education, while he was yet a young man, he became
totally blind. He was greatly discouraged. He was tempted to give up entirely, stop trying
to do anything. Certainly he could not be a successful preacher if he was blind. Who would
listen to him? How could he do his work?

However there was another voice inside him, the voice of courage, hope and faith. It was the
voice of the Lord that bid him go right on with his plans. He heeded the urge of the inner
voice. He was ordained. People loved him, and flocked to hear him preach. Though his natural
vision was darkened, his spiritual vision was so much brighter. Though he could not look upon
the beautiful sights of the world, he had eyes to see more clearly the wonderful things of
the soul. His fame spread throughout Edinburgh, Scotland, England, and all the English-speaking
world, and everywhere he was known and loved as the blind preacher.

This blind preacher wrote many hymns. The greatest hymn he ever wrote, and one of the finest
in all the English language, is the Memory Hymn for to-day.

His name? Well, I almost forgot that. His name is George Matheson.

MEMORY HYMN [481]

    "O love that wilt not let me go."

CHOOSING A KING

What would you do if you were asked to select a young man who should some day be president
of the United States? What tests would you apply? Would you look upon the clothes that he wore?
Would you consider the color of his hair? Would you insist that he should be of a certain height?
Once upon a time there was a good and wise man who was asked to choose a king for his people.
He started on his journey in search of the most promising youth he could find. By and by he
came to a home where there were many boys. One of these boys stood before him. He was tall.
He was well formed. He had a good bearing. Surely, thought the king-chooser, here is just the
man. But something inside him, "the still small voice" I think it was, said to him, "No, do
not choose him, he is not the one." The father then called a second son. Like the first he
was goodly to look upon. The great man commissioned to choose a king was about to select this
one when the same voice inside warned him to wait. A third son was summoned. A third time the
voice said, "No, he is not the one."

