We must now return to the little settlement on the coast of Jamaica --those two wornout caravels,
lashed together with ropes and bridged by an erection of wood and thatch, in which the forlorn
little company was established.  In all communities of men so situated there are alternate
periods of action and reaction, and after the excitement incidental to the departure of Mendez,
and the return of Bartholomew with the news that he had got safely away, there followed a time
of reaction, in which the Spaniards looked dismally out across the empty sea and wondered when,
if ever, their salvation would come.  Columbus himself was now a confirmed invalid, and could
hardly ever leave his bed under the thatch; and in his own condition of pain and depression
his influence on the rest of the crew must inevitably have been less inspiriting than it had
formerly been.  The men themselves, moreover, began to grow sickly, chiefly on account of the
soft vegetable food, to which they were not accustomed, and partly because of their cramped
quarters and the moist, unhealthy climate, which was the very opposite of what they needed
after their long period of suffering and hardship at sea.

As the days and weeks passed, with no occupation save the daily business of collecting food
that gradually became more and more nauseous to them, and of straining their eyes across the
empty blue of the sea in an anxious search for the returning canoes of Fieschi, the spirits
of the castaways sank lower and lower.  Inevitably their discontent became articulate and broke
out into murmurings.  The usual remedy for this state of affairs is to keep the men employed
at some hard work; but there was no work for them to do, and the spirit of dissatisfaction
had ample opportunity to spread.  As usual it soon took the form of hostility to the Admiral.
They seem to have borne him no love or gratitude for his masterly guiding of them through so
many dangers; and now when he lay ill and in suffering his treacherous followers must needs
fasten upon him the responsibility for their condition.  After a month or two had passed, and
it became certain that Fieschi was not coming back, the castaways could only suppose that he
and Mendez had either been captured by natives or had perished at sea, and that their fellow-countrymen
must still be without news of the Admiral's predicament.  They began to say also that the Admiral
was banished from Spain; that there was no desire or intention on the part of the Sovereigns
to send an expedition to his relief; even if they had known of his condition; and that in any
case they must long ago have given him up for lost.

When the pot boils the scum rises to the surface, and the first result of these disloyal murmurings
and agitations was to bring into prominence the two brothers, Francisco and Diego de Porras,
who, it will be remembered, owed their presence with the expedition entirely to the Admiral's
good nature in complying with the request of their brother-in-law Morales, who had apparently
wished to find some distant occupation for them.  They had been given honourable posts as officers,
in which they had not proved competent; but the Admiral had always treated them with kindness
and courtesy, regarding them more as guests than as servants.  Who or what these Porras brothers
were, where they came from, who were their father and mother, or what was their training, I
do not know; it is enough for us to know that the result of it all had been the production
of a couple of very mean scoundrels, who now found an opportunity to exercise their scoundrelism.

