What a time was this!  How sad the period and events of which I have now to recall the sad
memory!  I have now arrived at the fatal day when the combined armies of Europe were to sully
the soil of Paris, of that capital, free for so many years from the presence of the invader.
What a blow to the Emperor!  And what cruel expiation his great soul now made for his triumphant
entries into Vienna and Berlin!  It was, then, all in vain that he had displayed such incredible
activity during the admirable campaign of France, in which his genius had displayed itself
as brilliantly as during his Italian campaign.  The first time I saw him on the day after a
battle was at Marengo; and what a contrast his attitude of dejection presented when I saw him
again on the 31st of March at Fontainebleau.

Having accompanied His Majesty everywhere, I was near him at Troyes on the morning of the 30th
of March.

The Emperor set out at ten o'clock, accompanied only by the grand marshal and the Duke of Vicenza.
It was then known at headquarters that the allied troops were advancing on Paris; but we were
far from suspecting that at the very moment of the Emperor's hurried departure the battle before
Paris was being most bitterly waged.  At least I had heard nothing to lead me to believe it.
I received an order to move to Essonne, and, as means of transportation had become scarce and
hard to obtain, did not arrive there until the morning of the 31st, and had been there only
a short time when the courier brought me an order to repair to Fontainebleau, which I immediately
did.  It was then I learned that the Emperor had gone from Troyes to Montereau in two hours,
having made the journey of ten leagues in that short space of time.  I also learned that the
Emperor and his small suite had been obliged to make use of a chaise on the road to Paris,
between Essonne and Villejuif.  He advanced as far as the Cour de France with the intention
of marching on Paris; but there, verifying the news and the cruel certainty of the surrender
of Paris, had sent to me the courier whom I mentioned above.

I had been at Fontainebleau only a short while when the Emperor arrived. His countenance was
pale and harassed to a greater degree than I had ever seen it; and he who knew so well how
to control all the emotions of his soul did not seem to attempt to conceal the dejection which
was so manifest both in his attitude and in his countenance.  It was evident how greatly he
was suffering from all the disastrous events which had accumulated one after the other in terrible
progression.  The Emperor said nothing to any one, and closeted himself immediately in his
cabinet, with the Dukes of Bassano and Vicenza and the Prince of Neuchatel.  These generals
remained a long while with the Emperor, who afterwards received some general officers.  His
Majesty retired very late, and appeared to me entirely crushed.  From time to time I heard
stifled sighs escape from his breast, with which were mingled the name of Marmont, which I
could not then understand, as I had heard nothing of the terms of the surrender, and knew that
the Duke of Ragusa was a marshal to whom the Emperor seemed always deeply attached.  I saw
that evening, at Fontainebleau, Marshal Moncey, who the evening before had bravely commanded
the national guard at the barricade of Clichy, and also the Duke of Dantzic.

A gloomy and silent sadness which is perfectly indescribable reigned at Fontainebleau during
the two days which followed.  Overcome by so many repeated blows, the Emperor seldom entered
his cabinet, where he usually passed so many hours engaged in work.  He was so absorbed in
his conflicting thoughts, that often he did not notice the arrival of persons whom he had summoned,
looked at them, so to speak, without seeing them, and sometimes remained nearly half an hour
without addressing them; then, as if awaking from this state of stupefaction, asked them questions
without seeming to hear the reply; and even the presence of the Duke of Bassano and the Duke
of Vicenza, whom he summoned more frequently, did not interrupt this condition of preoccupation
or lethargy, so to speak. The hours for meals were the same, and they were served as usual;
but all took place amid complete silence, broken only by the necessary noise of the service.
At the Emperor's toilet the same silence; not a word issued from his lips; and if in the morning
I suggested to him one of the drinks that he usually took, he not only did not reply, but nothing
in his countenance which I attentively observed could make me believe that he had heard me.
This situation was terrible for all the persons attached to his Majesty.

Was the Emperor really so overwhelmed by his evil fortune?  Was his genius as benumbed as his
body?  I must admit, in all candor, that seeing him so different from what he appeared after
the disasters of Moscow, and even when I had left him at Troyes a few days before, I strongly
believed it.  But this was by no means the case; his soul was a prey to one fixed idea that
of taking the offensive and marching on Paris.  And though, indeed, he remained overwhelmed
with consternation in his intimate intercourse with his most faithful ministers and most skillful
generals, he revived at sight of his soldiers, thinking, doubtless, that the one would suggest
only prudent counsels while the others would never reply aught but in shouts of "Vive l'Empereur!"
to the most daring orders he might give.  For instance, on the 2d of April he momentarily,
so to speak, shook off his dejection, and in the court of the palace held a review of his guard,
who had just rejoined him at Fontainebleau.  He addressed his soldiers in a firm voice, saying:

     "Soldiers!  the enemy has stolen three marches on us, and has taken
     possession of Paris; we must drive them out.  Unworthy Frenchmen,
     emigres to whom we have extended pardon, have donned the white
     cockade, and gone over to our enemies.  The cowards!  They will reap
     the reward of this new treason.  Let us swear to conquer or to die,
     and to have respect shown to this tricolored cockade, which for
     twenty-five years we have borne on the road to glory and honor."

The troops were roused to enthusiasm at the sound of their chief's voice, and shouted in unison,
"Paris!  Paris!"  But the Emperor, nevertheless, resumed his former dejection on crossing the
threshold of the palace, which arose no doubt from the fear, only too well founded, of seeing
his desire to march on Paris thwarted by his lieutenants.  It is only since, that reflecting
on the events of that time, I am enabled to conjecture as to the struggles which passed in
the soul of the Emperor; for then, as during my entire period of service, I would not have
dared to think of going outside the limits of my ordinary duties and functions.

Meanwhile, the situation became more and more unfavorable to the wishes and plans of the Emperor.
The Duke of Vicenza had been sent to Paris, where a provisional government had been formed
under the presidency of the Prince of Benevento, without having succeeded in his mission to
the Emperor Alexander; and each day his Majesty with deep grief witnessed the adhesion of the
marshals and a large number of generals to the new government.  He felt the Prince de Neuchatel's
desertion deeply; and I must say that, unaccustomed as we were to political combinations, we
were overcome with astonishment.

