Presently tall columns of steam burst from the 'scape-pipes of both steamers, two guns boom
a good-bye, two red-shirted heroes mounted on capstans wave their small flags above the massed
crews on the forecastles, two plaintive solos linger on the air a few waiting seconds, two
mighty choruses burst forth--and here they come! Brass bands bray Hail Columbia, huzza after
huzza thunders from the shores, and the stately creatures go whistling by like the wind.

Those boats will never halt a moment between New Orleans and St. Louis, except for a second
or two at large towns, or to hitch thirty-cord wood- boats alongside.  You should be on board
when they take a couple of those wood-boats in tow and turn a swarm of men into each; by the
time you have wiped your glasses and put them on, you will be wondering what has become of
that wood.

Two nicely matched steamers will stay in sight of each other day after day. They might even
stay side by side, but for the fact that pilots are not all alike, and the smartest pilots
will win the race.  If one of the boats has a 'lightning' pilot, whose 'partner' is a trifle
his inferior, you can tell which one is on watch by noting whether that boat has gained ground
or lost some during each four-hour stretch.  The shrewdest pilot can delay a boat if he has
not a fine genius for steering. Steering is a very high art. One must not keep a rudder dragging
across a boat's stem if he wants to get up the river fast.

There is a great difference in boats, of course.  For a long time I was on a boat that was
so slow we used to forget what year it was we left port in. But of course this was at rare
intervals.  Ferryboats used to lose valuable trips because their passengers grew old and died,
waiting for us to get by.  This was at still rarer intervals.  I had the documents for these
occurrences, but through carelessness they have been mislaid. This boat, the 'John J. Roe,'
was so slow that when she finally sunk in Madrid Bend, it was five years before the owners
heard of it. That was always a confusing fact to me, but it is according to the record, any
way.  She was dismally slow; still, we often had pretty exciting times racing with islands,
and rafts, and such things. One trip, however, we did rather well.  We went to St. Louis in
sixteen days. But even at this rattling gait I think we changed watches three times in Fort
Adams reach, which is five miles long.  A 'reach' is a piece of straight river, and of course
the current drives through such a place in a pretty lively way.

That trip we went to Grand Gulf, from New Orleans, in four days (three hundred and forty miles);
the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell' did it in one. We were nine days out, in the chute of 63 (seven
hundred miles); the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell' went there in two days.  Something over a generation
ago, a boat called the 'J. M. White' went from New Orleans to Cairo in three days, six hours,
and forty-four minutes. In 1853 the 'Eclipse' made the same trip in three days, three hours,
and twenty minutes.{footnote [Time disputed. Some authorities add 1 hour and 16 minutes to
this.]}  In 1870 the 'R. E. Lee' did it in three days and ONE hour. This last is called the
fastest trip on record. I will try to show that it was not.  For this reason: the distance
between New Orleans and Cairo, when the 'J. M. White' ran it, was about eleven hundred and
six miles; consequently her average speed was a trifle over fourteen miles per hour. In the
'Eclipse's' day the distance between the two ports had become reduced to one thousand and eighty
miles; consequently her average speed was a shade under fourteen and three-eighths miles per
hour. In the 'R. E. Lee's' time the distance had diminished to about one thousand and thirty
miles; consequently her average was about fourteen and one-eighth miles per hour.