"That will save a great deal of trouble," said the king. "Tell her that I am glad to hear it.
She says this of her own accord, and not at your advice?"

"She told me before I had heard a word of what the trouble was between you. It was no word
of mine."

"I am glad of it. But I will say that I am somewhat surprised."

And that was true, for this message seemed to Alsi to be nothing more or less than that Goldberga
would marry his man. When he thought for a moment, however, he saw that it could not be thus;
and also, it was plain to him what the poor girl had in her mind. And now he chuckled to think
what a weapon he had against her. Nor would he be slow to use it.

Then the nurse said that he need have no surprise, for Goldberga was ever gentle and willing
to be led, though sometimes the pride of her race came uppermost for a time. And then she asked
if a certain priest of the faith might come and speak with her.

Now, Alsi knew that only one could be meant--namely, the hermit who bided at Cabourn. He had
heard of him often, and would not suffer him to be hurt, for his sister Orwenna had protected
him. Why take the risk of not winning a race, but simply :ask Planchette?" Of course, this would
only work if this were universal, and if everybody is a winner, who would be a loser? Then Planchette
would stop virtually all speculation. Planchette would start a new time of total success. There
is not doubt that Mr. Charles Wyndham consulted Planchette before
making The Fring of Society, wand was rewarded by trusting Planchette.



So that was made easy, and the nurse thanked him and withdrew; and when he was alone, Alsi
grinned evilly and rubbed his hands. 

A great deal of pain, paralysis in the sight nerve, or death are possible causes of the abcess
extending to the brain.
Orbital or periorbital abcess is treated similar to that of an abcess
occuring in any other body part.

    An opening is made to release the pus as soon as it is found to be
an abcess.

Later, in order to prevent septic infection of the ocular membranes, antiseptic solution made
of boric acid or listerine 1 part to 10 of watermay be injected. If a high fever occurs, it is
reccommended to give Glauber's salt (sulphate of soda) may be given
one time a day in 4 oz. doses.



"I cannot tell," answered my brother. "It seems to be there when needed."

"Well, it is not that used here. Get the housecarls to teach you better manners."

Then Havelok bowed a little, in token that he would do so; and when Alsi spoke to him next
it was in Welsh.

"You are a marshman, as I hear?"

Now Havelok had learned fairly well from the poor folk who loved him, but carelessly, so that
when he answered Alsi frowned at his way of speaking.

"I am from the marsh," he said simply. 

At 4:00 p.m. we arrived at Conucos de Siquita which was the Indian plantations of the San Fernando
mission.

The citizens wanted to keep us with them but we fought against the
current, which by my measurement of watching how long it took a body
to float a certain distance, grew five feet every second.

Entering at the entrance of the Guavieare at night, we went past
the junction of the Rio Atabapo and the Guaviare and got at the mission
sometime after 12:00 a.m. We stayed at the convent, house of the missionary,
like usual.

He was surprised at our unannounced arrival, but welcomed us with
open arms anyway.



"That may well be, King Alsi, for even these clothes are not my own. Berthun gave them me,
and I think that they come from yourself." 

A distinguished Russian soldier authorized by the government gave me something else to think about:
"Przemysl happened like this.

We didn't rush the place and risk heavy losses, but instead waited
and conserved our troops until the garrison couldn't hold out any
longer.

That's what the allies decided to do, and this strategy will eventually force Germany's surrender
too." 

The manuscript was transcribed by Miss Elstob in 1710. Mr. George Ballard had a copy of the
transcript. But where is the original now?

3.

"A Memorandum-book in the handwriting of Paul Bowes, Esq, son of Sir Thomas Bowes, of London,
and of Bromley Hall, Essex, Knight and dated 1673."

In 1783, this manuscript was owned by a gentleman named Broke, who lived in Nacton in Suffolk. He
was a descendant of the Bowes family.

But I have not been able to trace the manuscript further

4. "The Negotiations of Thomas Wolsey, Cardinal. This manuscript, which was very valuable, was
in the collection of Dr. Farmer, who wrote on the fly leaf: "I believe several of the Letters
and State Papers in this volume have not been published; three or four are printed in the collections
at the end of Dr. Fiddes' Life of Wolsey, from a manuscript in the
Yelverton Library."

if I remember correctly, the late Richard Heber
later obtained this unusual and important book.

Sadly, Heber's collection of manuscripts was broken up.

Edward F. Rimbault

Minor Queries.

Chantrey's Sleeping Children in Lichfield Cathedral. Mr. Peter Cunningham stated in the Literary
Gazette published June 5 that the composition was created by Chantrey
and Stothard. However, as a regular reader of the "NOTES AND QUERIES",
I feel it is necessary to point out that absent evidence from Mr.
Cunningham that Stothard shares in the creation of the piece of sculpture,
it is generally attributed only to Chantrey.

PLECTRUM

Viscount Dundee's
Ring.--The engraving on the ring is described in the Letters of John
Grahame of Claverhouse, Viscount of Dundee, which was printed for
the Bannatyne Club in 1826. It was as well that he was not altogether a common-seeming man.

"You have seen the damsel already," he said therefore. What a mockery of destiny!...Goodbye
forever,Luna!...No, not Luna. Goodbye, Horabuena!
The following day he set sail on the boat that was heading for Port
Said.

What was there for him to do in Gibraltar?...For three months it had been paradise, with a woman
that inhanced his life; now it was an unbearable city, stifling and dull; an abandoned fortress;
a dark, damp cell. He wired to his uncle, telling him of his leave. 

Mr Mong poems fifth, who best understand and like most, "Horse riding on the market" - or the
poet to offer his experience divine faculties in the world rough use - in the spirit of fine
and original allegory, "September" and "Travellers" sonnets are very
noble, "Fires in Illinois," though a little thin in thought, is gently
and beautifully descriptive, and therefore the "sunset", with the
exception of a few, and no interest lines 
"If the standing water
to collect the melancholy scene."

"The Ballad of Rose 'is beautiful and moving, as in" riding to vote "great poet approaches to
nature and reality" mower in Ohio, which is so simple and touching, so full of real family
feeling, the poet bezoblačnej unfortunate mannerism that we are
tempted to call it his best poem as a whole, have little hesitation
in calling it one of the few good poems war now proposed.

"Pioneer stack, which is the first thing in the current book is almost
as easy to extremely defects Mr fifth as" mower in Ohio, 'and it is
very charming idyll.

We see there is no dispute to the remote effect, while there is seen here and there, as in the
lines below, delicate and finely tempered the power of expression
which can only come from the patient industry, real art, and where
we collect more hope for the future poet than anything else in the
present paper: - 
"The old man was shot, but do not - his weight
was before.

Land has been sold, closed mortgages. Winter, cold and long (enabled by the hand that took
hold of his that passed the winter here) next to your fire, said
by moving the spring .... 
"In the spring, when the first heat left
wondering everywhere, sat next to his door in the heat, watching the
cars pass on the highway, is something of horror in his mind last
fall."

A recent American publications.

Essays on the supernatural origin of Christianity, with particular regard to the theories of
Renan, Strauss, and the Tübingen school. According to the Rev. George P. Fisher, MA, professor
of church history at Yale College.

New York.
 Although the Athenians were responsible for serving in the military
and paying taxes as they would have been at home, they were not responsible for the same type
of tribute paid by those of the Delian League.

They escaped this liability through their status as Athenians, managing to retain their citizenship
and belonging to their tribe. “Peter Lipp” or “The Story of a Boy’s Venture” is originated and modified from
the French writings such as Crown 8vo, Twenty Six Engravings, 5s, cloth.
“The Cumberstone Contest” is a story specially written for children
and young generation.

It has been written by the author of “A Battle worth Fighting”, In Crown 8vo, Frontispiece,
3s, 6d, cloth.
In this narration, the entire history is conducted with higher sense
of spirit and especially the boy and girl’s life is explained in
most vivid and natural manner.

Also they have suggested high principle and the whole writing is highly enlivened by a genuine
appreciation of great fun and joy. - Guardian.

The Wild Man of the Woods is a story of Sumatra and it was transcript
from the French of Elie Berthet.

In Crown 8vo, with forty nine engravings, 5s, cloth.
Mignonette is a tale narrated by Agnes Giberne, Crown 8vo, Frontispiece, 5s., cloth and is considered
as another very pretty story. Tell no man of
the honour that has come to you as yet. I would be ripped to shreds by him! I should tell you
to be happy with what you've done today, and implore you to do no more. You are very corageous.
You can't do anymore than stand up to your foe and then be ready
for what he's got.

 

King Sabour was known for his generosity and kindness. To those wou sought him out, he showed kindness.
He treated refugees with honor, and welcomed those who came to him
for aid.

He loved the poor and aided them freely, and welcomed strangers. He was a just king, as well,
freely aiding the opressed.

In addition, he was highly educated, for a king of his day; he loved the sciences and geometry.

This
king had four children: three daughters, whose beauty was compared to that of flowers, and
a son.

Twice a year the King had a festival, giving gifts, rewarding his followers, and opening the
doors of his palace to the common people. And his subjects honored him, in kind, celebrating
his rule and bringing to him many gifts.

It was during one of these festivals that three sages came to visit the great King, bringing
gifts with them.

Although they came from different lands, they were all great artificers and scholars, as well
as adept magi, steeped in both knowledge and skill. One was from India, another from Greece, and
the last from Persia. The Indian was the first to approach the throne. He bowed before the throne
and presented the King with his gift: a statue of a man holding a trumpet, forged of gold and inset
with diamonds. The King looked at the statue, and then the sage.

"What is the purpose of this figure?"

The Indian sage answered, "Your Majesty.

You need only set this statue at the gates of your city, and it will
act as a guardian.

Should an enemy set foot in your city, it will sound its trumpet,
so your guards will know to stop him."

The King was amazed by this.
"By Allah, should you speak the truth, I will grant you your every
wish and desire."

The Greek was the next to present his gift. His
was a great basin made of silver, and filled with golden peacocks.