"You may say that all this is a great deal to ask of young men," the chairman continued. "But
if you ask from them comfortable practices only, how can you expect from them a remarkable
result? Young men should ponder this and be willing to exert themselves." Later on it was explained
to me that it had been found that it took a great deal of time for the secretaries to call
up all the members in the morning by shouting to them, "so the secretary obtained bugles; but
even the bugles were not heard everywhere, so they were changed to drums, and now five drums
go round our village every morning."

In every village of Japan there is a young men's association, which is by no means to be confounded
with the world-encircling Y.M.C.A.[18] The village Y.M.A. of Japan is an institution of some
antiquity and it has nothing whatever to do with religious effort. One day, when I was staying
in a rural district, I was invited to a remoter part in order to see something of the discipline
that the members of a group of young men's associations were imposing on themselves. The members
of this group of Y.M.A. belonged to the branches established in a village of nineteen aza,
that is hamlets. This fact, with the further fact that the village containing the nineteen
aza had four elementary schools and one higher school, will show that a Japanese village may
be much larger than a Western one.

Nearly six hundred young men were in the parade. They were dressed exactly alike in the tight
blue calico trousers and kimono of jacket length which the Japanese farmer ordinarily wears.
Each man had the usual obi (waist scarf) tied round his kimono, and in the obi was thrust the
small cotton towel which Japanese carry with them everywhere. The young men wore puttees, waraji
(straw sandals) and caps. It is only of late that the Japanese worker has taken to wearing
head-gear, or at any rate head-gear other than he could contrive with his towel. The physical
condition of the young fellows was good and their evolutions with dummy "rifles" were smart
and skilful. The paraders seemed lost in their desire to do their best for their credit's sake
and their own good. After the first movements, the "troops" with "rifles" held as if there
were bayonets at the end, made rushes with loud cries. The secret of this somewhat surprising
display far away in the heart of Japan was that the work of the young men had been done under
the direction of two fit, be-medalled army surgeons, reserve officers, who were present in
order to answer my questions.

Every morning half an hour before sunrise these Y.M.A. members assemble in the grounds of their
Shinto shrine or of their school, where they exercise until the sun shows itself. In the evenings
after work they also fence, wrestle, lift weights and develop their wrists. This wrist development
is done by two youths grasping a pole, one at either end, and then trying to rotate it one
against the other.

The members endeavour to cultivate their minds as well as their bodies, and they also observe
in their dress a self-denying ordinance. On ceremonial occasions they permit themselves to
wear a full-length kimono and the hakama or divided skirt, but they deny themselves the third
article of a Japanese man's full dress, the haori or silk overcoat. An effort is also made
to dispense with the use of "luxurious" geta (the national wooden pattens).[19]

The object of all this varied discipline is to develop physique, self-control, self-respect
and what the Japanese call the spirit of association, or, as we might say, good fellowship.
The spirit of association is needed in order to promote greater administrative, educational
and social efficiency. The modern Japanese village is no longer an historical but a political
unit which covers a considerable district. It is, as I have explained, a combination of clusters
of aza (hamlets). Each of these aza has its local sentiment, and this local sentiment when
untouched by outside influences tends to become selfish, narrow and prejudiced. If, however,
anything is to be done in the development of rural life there must be co-operation between
aza for all sorts of objects.

I was assured that in addition to the development of physique, moral and the spirit of association,
there was to be seen, under the influence of the Y.M.A., a development of good manners and
mental nimbleness. A special result of early rising and discipline in one area had been that
"the habit of spending evening hours idly has died away, immorality has diminished, singing
loudly and foolishly and boasting oneself have disappeared, while punctuality and respect for
old age have increased." I was even assured that parents--whom no true Japanese would ever
dream of attempting to reform at first hand--parents, I say, moved by the physical and mental
advance in their sons, have "begun to practise greater punctuality."

After the drilling was over I was taken to a large elementary school and was called upon to
address the young men, who were kneeling in perfect files. Mr. Yamasaki followed me and told
the youths that Japanese were not so tall as they might be, and that therefore their physique
"must be continuously developed." Nor were rural conditions all they should be from a moral
point of view. Therefore, "every desire which interferes with the development of your health
or morality must be overcome."

Let me speak of another village. It numbers a thousand families and it rises in the morning
and goes to bed at night by the sound of the bugle. It has five public baths and a notice-board
of news "to enlarge people's ideas." The shopkeepers are said to "work very diligently, so
things are cheaper." The education of such of the young men as are exempted from military service
is continued on Saturday evenings for four years. The Y.M.A., in addition to the military discipline,
fencing, wrestling, weight-lifting and pole-twisting of which I have spoken, exercises itself
in handwriting--which many Japanese practise as an art during their whole lifetime--and in
composing the conventional short poem. I was gravely informed that "the custom of spending
money on sweet-stuff is decreasing." What this really means is that the young men were not
frequenting the sweet-stuff shops, which are staffed by girls who are in many cases a greater
temptation than the sweets. The worthy members of this association had "burnt their geta."

In some places Y.M.A. members give their labour when a school teacher or a fellow member is
building his house, or they do repairs at the school. Bicycle excursions are made to neighbouring
villages in order to participate in inter-Y.M.A. debates, or to study vegetable raising, fruit
culture or poultry keeping. The Japanese are much given to "taking trips," and the special
training which they receive at school in making notes and plans results in everybody having
a notebook and being able to sketch a rough route-plan for personal use, or for a stranger
who may ask his way.

Not a few associations favour members cutting each other's hair once a fortnight, thus at one
and the same time saving money and curbing vanity. Several Y.M.A.s publish cyclostyled monthlies.
Others minutely investigate the economic condition of their villages. Some Y.M.A.s provide
public "complaint boxes," and have boards up asking for friendly help for soldiers billeted
in the district. One association has issued instructions to its members that they are not to
ride when in charge of ox-drawn carts. The reason is that the ox is only partially under control
and may injure a pedestrian--unwittingly, I am sure, for the gentleness of the ox and even
of the bull in harness arrests one's attention. Many Y.M.A.s devote themselves to cultivating
improved qualities of rice or to breaking up new land. Sometimes the land of the Shinto shrine
is cultivated. I have heard of Y.M.A.s in remote parts having handed over to them the exclusive
sale of saké.

I find a Y.M.A. counselling its members "not to speak vulgar words in a crowd." There is also
among the members of Y.M.A.s a certain addiction to diary keeping for moral as well as economic
purposes. The diaries are distributed by the associations and "afterwards examined and rewarded"--a
plan which would hardly work in the West. There are Y.M.A.s which make a point of seeing off
conscripts with flags and music. Others have fallen on the more economical plan of "writing
to the conscript as often as possible and helping with labour the family which is suffering
from the loss of his services." By some Y.M.A.s "old people are respected and comforted." More
than one association has a practice of serving out red and black balls to its members at the
opening of every new year, when good resolutions are in order, and at the end of the year recalling
either the red or the black according to the degree to which the publicly announced good resolutions
have been kept. Among the good resolutions are: to worship at the Shinto shrine or the Buddhist
temple regularly, to be tidier, to be more efficient in cropping the land, to undertake work
for the common good, to have a secondary occupation in addition to farming, to sit with more
decorum at meals, to rise earlier, to visit the graves of ancestors monthly, to be more considerate
to parents or elder brothers, and "not to remain idly at people's houses."

One Y.M.A. decrees that a member found in a tea-house in conversation with a geisha shall be
fined 20 yen. There is even a village in which the young men's association and the young women's
association have united to issue a regulation providing that at night time members, in order
that their doings shall be public, shall carry lanterns painted with the ideographs of their
societies.[20]

With regard to the young women's associations, I found that one of them studied domestic matters
and good manners, "asking questions and receiving answers." The motto of the organisation was
"Good Wives and Good Mothers." A member, this Society believes, should be "polite, gentle and
warm-hearted, but with a strong will inside and able to meet difficulties." Her hairdressing
and clothes "should not be luxurious," and she "must not run after fashions." She must "respect
Buddha and abandon sweet-eating," for "taking food between meals is bad for your health, for
economy and for your posterity."

Let us now hear something of Societies for the Cultivation of Rice by Schoolboys. The lads
become responsible for the cultivation of a tan of their family land, or of a small paddy,
and they work it themselves with the help of such advice as the schoolmaster may give them.
(The cultivation of a tan of a paddy, a quarter of an acre, is supposed to need in a year about
twenty-one days' labour of a man working from sunrise to sunset.) The report of one boy to
which I turned in a collection of reports by members of a rice-cultivation society showed that
he was between fourteen and fifteen. His diary of work and observations was as follows:

  June 5.--4 to of herring applied.

  June 7.--Locusts and other insects arrive.[21]

  June 20.--153 clumps of rice transplanted from the seed bed.[22]

  July 11.--Rice cultivated and 4 to of herring applied.

  July 27.--First weeding.

  Aug. 6.--Second weeding.

  Aug. 8.--Locusts again.

  Aug. 11.--Third weeding.

  Sept. 10.--All ears shot.

  Oct. 10.--Some plants suffering from bacillus.

It was further noted that the soil was sandy, that cold spring water was percolating through
the bottom of the paddy field, that the aeration of the soil was bad and that some plants were
laid by wind. The young farmer appended to his report an excellent plan. He received marks
as follows: Method of planting, 15; levelling, 20; provision against insects, 5; general attention,
25; total, 65. Some boys got as many as 99 marks.

A word concerning a Village Association for Promoting Morality. One of the things it does is
to assemble yearly the whole population, old and young, "in order to get friendly." The police
meanwhile keep an eye open for strangers who might take it into their heads to visit the village
on that day and help themselves from the houses. I may quote three poems in rough translations
from a speech made by a priest at the annual meeting:

The legs of a horse, the rudder of a boat, the pin of a fan,
    and the sincerity of a man.
Let your heart be pure and true and you need not pray
    for the protection of the gods.
The bride brings many things with her to her new home,
    but one thing more, the spirit of sincerity, will not
    encumber her.

After these varied accounts of rural merit, I could not but listen with attention to a tale
of village gamblers, the offence of gambling having been "introduced by the excavators on the
new railway." First the headman fined a dozen young men. Then he made a raid and found among
the village sinners several members of his own council. "The salaried officials were at a loss
to know what to do, and proposed to resign. But the headman brought the prisoners together
before the whole body of officials. He spoke of the sufferings of the troops in Manchuria and
the heroic deaths among them. (It was the time of the Russian war.) 'Lest your offences should
come to be known by our soldiers and discourage them,' said the headman, 'I cannot but overlook
your conduct.' It is thought that gambling practically ceased from that time."

Local officials have a way of making the most of historic events in order to touch the imagination
of their villagers. Many original undertakings were begun, for example, under the inspiration
of the Coronation. One village set about raising a fund by a system of taxation under which
inhabitants contribute according to the following tariff:

  Birth of a child, 10 sen (that is, 2-1/2 d. or 5 cents).
  Wedding, 15 sen.
  Adoption, 15 sen.
  Graduation from the primary school, 10 sen; advanced
      school, 20 sen.
  Teacher or official on appointment, 2 per cent. of salary;
      when salary is increased, 10 per cent. of increase.
  When an official receives a prize of money from his
      superior, 5 per cent.
  Every villager to pay every quarter, 1 sen.

On the basis of this assessment it is expected that fifty-seven years after the Coronation
such a sum will have been accumulated as will enable the villagers to live rate free. Some
villages have thanksgiving associations in connection with Shinto shrines. Aged villagers are
"respected by being blessed before the shrine and by being given a present." Worthy villagers
who are not aged "receive prizes and honour."

More than once when I went to a village I was welcomed first by a parade of the Y.M.A., then
by the school children in rows, and finally in the school grounds by two lines of venerable
members of an Ex-Public Servants' Association. The object of an E.P.S.A. is to strengthen the
hands of the present officials and to give honour to their predecessors. A headman explained
to me: "If ex-officials fell into poverty or lacked public respect, people would not be inclined
to work for the public good. A former clerk in the village office whom everybody had forgotten
was working as a labourer. But as a member of the association he was seen to be treated with
honour, so the children were impressed. The funeral of such a man is apt to be lonely, but
when this man died all the members of the association attended his funeral in ceremonial dress
and offered some money to his memory.[23] His honour is great and the villagers say, 'We may
well work for the public benefit.'"

Every village in Japan has a Village Agricultural Association. One V.A.A., which belongs to
a village of less than 6,000 people, sees the fruit of its labours in the existence of "322
good manure houses." The gift of a plan and the grant of a yen had prompted the building of
most of them. Then the organisation incites its members to cement the ground below their dwellings.
This is not so much for the benefit of the farmer and his family as for the welfare of their
silkworms. A fly harmful to silkworms winters in the soil, but it cannot find a resting-place
in concrete.

A word may also be said about the way in which silkworm rearers have been induced by the V.A.A.
to keep the same breed of caterpillar, so facilitating bulking of cocoons at the association's
co-operative sales. A small library of silkworm-culture books has been started in the village,
and there is a special pamphlet for young men which they are urged to keep in "their pockets
and to study ten minutes each day." A general library has 2,400 volumes divided into eight
circulating libraries. The cost of the building which provides the library in chief, a meeting
hall and also a storehouse for cocoons has been defrayed by the commissions charged for the
co-operative sale of cocoons.

Again, there used to be no cattle in the village, but now, thanks to the purchase of young
animals by the association, and thanks to village shows, there are 103.

There is a competition to get the biggest yield of rice, and there is also "an exhibition of
crops." This exhibition incidentally aims at ending trouble between landlord and tenants due
to complaints of the inferiority of the rice brought in as rent. (Paddy-field rent is invariably
paid in rice.) These complaints are more directly dealt with by the V.A.A. arbitrating between
landlords and tenants who are at issue. In addition to rice crop and cattle shows in the village,
there is a yearly exhibition of the prod ucts of secondary industries, such as mats, sandals
and hats.

The V.A.A. is also working to secure the planting of hill-side waste. Some 300,000 tree seedlings
have been distributed to members of the Y.M.A., who "grow them on," and, after examination
and criticism, plant them out. I must not omit to speak of the V.A.A.s' distribution of moral
and economic diaries of the type already referred to. The villagers, in the spirit of boy-scoutism,
are "advised to do one good thing in a day." I saw several of these diaries, well thumbed by
their authors after having been laboured at for a year. One young farmer noted down on the
space for January 2 that he said his prayers and then went daikon[24] pulling, and that daikon
pulling (like our mangold pulling) is a cold job.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] There are, however, 11,000 members of Y.M.C.A. in Japan. There is also a Y.W.C.A. with
a considerable membership.

[19] See Appendix II.

[20] For official action in regard to the Y.M.A.s, see later.

[21] The damage done by insects is estimated at 10 million yen a year. In some parts locusts
are roasted and eaten.

[22] For an account of the processes of rice cultivation, see Chapter IX.

[23] It is the practical Japanese custom to make a gift of money to a family on the occasion
of a death. The Emperor makes a present to the family of a deceased statesman.

[24] The giant white radish which reaches 2 or 3 ft. in length and 3 in. or more in diameter.
There is also a correspondingly large turnip-shaped sort.

CHAPTER IV

"THE SIGHT OF A GOOD MAN IS ENOUGH"

It has been said that we should emulate rather than imitate them. All I say is, Let us study
them.--MATTHEW ARNOLD

For seven years in succession the men, old, middle-aged and young, who had done the most remarkable
things in the agriculture of the prefecture had been invited to gather in conference. I went
to this annual "meeting of skilful farmers." Among the speakers were the local governor and
chiefs of departments who had been sent down by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Home Office.
According to our ideas, everybody but the unpractised speakers--the expert farmers who were
called from time to time to the platform--spoke too long. But the kneeling audience found no
fault. Indeed, a third of it was taking notes. It was an audience of seeking souls.

One of the impromptu speakers, a white-haired, toil-marked farmer, told how forty years before
he had gone to the next prefecture and opened new land. "With his spectacles and moustache,"
explained the chairman--if the man who takes the initiative from time to time at a Japanese
meeting may be properly called a chairman--"he looks like a gentleman; but he works hard."
And the man showed his hands as a testimony to the severity of his labours.

"It was in the winter," he said, "that I went away from my home and obtained a certain tract
of waste. I had no acquaintance near. I brought some food, but when I fell short I had no more.
I had gone with my third boy. We lived in a small hut and were in a miserable condition. Then
a fierce wind took off the roof. It was at four in the morning when the roof blew off. In February
I began to open a rice field. Gradually we got a chō. At length I opened another chō, but there
was much gravel. Some of my newly opened fields are very high up the hill. If you chance to
pass my house please come to see me. The maple leaves are very beautiful and you can enjoy
the sight of many birds."

The early meetings of the expert farmers used to last not one day but two, for the men delighted
in narrating their experiences to one another. Some of the audience used to weep as the older
men told their tales. The farmers would sit up late round a farmer or a professor who was talking
about some subject that interested them. The originator of these gatherings, Mr. Yamasaki,
told me that he was "more than once moved to tears by the merits and pure hearts of the farmer
speakers."

Of the regard and respect which the farmers had for this man I had many indications. Like not
a few agricultural authorities, he is a samurai.[25] He is exceptionally tall for a Japanese,
looks indeed rather like a Highland gillie, and when one evening I prevailed on him to put
on armour, thrust two swords in his obi and take a long bow in his hand, he was an imposing
figure. He carries the ideals of bushido into his rural work. He does not sleep more than five
hours, and he is up every morning at five.

But I am getting away from the meeting. There was a priest who spoke, a man curiously like
Tolstoy. (He had, no doubt, Ainu blood in him.) He wore the stiff buttoned-up jacket of the
primary school teacher and spoke modestly. "Formerly the rice fields of my village suffered
very much from bad irrigation," he said, "but when that was put right the soil became excellent.
In the days when the soil was bad the people were good and no man suspected another of stealing
his seal.[26] But when the soil became good the disposition of the people was influenced in
a bad way, and they brought their seals to the temple to be kept safe.

"At that time the organiser of this meeting came and made a speech in my village. On hearing
his speech I thought it an easy task to make my village good. At once I began to do good things.
I formed several men's and women's associations, all at once, as if I were Buddha. But the
real condition of the people was not much improved. There came many troubles upon me, and our
friend wrote a letter. I was very thankful, and I have been keeping that letter in the temple
and bowing there morning and evening.

"I began to ask many distinguished persons to help me. They influenced the farmers. The sight
of a good man is enough. Speech is unnecessary. The villagers were not educated enough to understand
moralisings or thinking, but the kind face of a good man has efficacy. There was a man in the
village who was demoralised, and when I told of him to a distinguished man who lives near our
village he sympathised very much. That distinguished man is eighty-four years old, but he accompanied
that demoralised man for three days, giving no instruction but simply living the same life,
and the demoralised man was an entirely changed man and ever thankful.

"I am a sinful man. Sometimes it happens that after I have been working for the public benefit
I am glad that I am offered thanks. I know it is not a good thing when people express gratitude
to me, for I ought not to accept it. When I know I am doing a good thing and expecting thanks,
I am not doing a good thing. My thanks must not come from men but from Buddha. I am trying
to cast out my sinful feelings. It must not be supposed that I am leading these people. You
skilful farmers kindly come to my village if you pass. You need not give any speech. Your good
faces will do."

But the two speeches I have reported are hardly a fair sample of the discourses which were
delivered. The addresses of the earnest Tokyo officials and the Governor were directed towards
urging on the farmers increased production and increased labour, and the duty was pressed upon
them, as I understood, in the name of the highest patriotism and of devotion to their ancestors.
This talk was excellent in its way, but when I got up I hazarded a few words on different lines.
If I venture to summarise my somewhat elementary address it is because it furnishes a key to
some of the enquiries I was to make during my journeys. I was told the next day that the local
daily had declared that my "tongue was tipped with fire," which was a compliment to my kind
and clever interpreter, who, when he let himself go, seemed to be able to make two or three
sentences out of every one of mine:

I said that my Japanese friends kept asking me my impressions, and one thing I had to say to
them was that I had got an impression in many quarters of spiritual dryness. I dared to think
that some responsibility for a materialistic outlook must be shared by the admirable officials
and experts who moved about among the farmers. They were always talking about crop yields and
the amount of money made, and they unconsciously pressed home the idea that rural progress
was a material thing.

But the rural problem was not only a problem of better crops and of greater production. Man
did not live by food alone. Tolstoy wrote a book called What Men Live By, and there was nothing
in it about food. Men lived not by the number of bales of rice they raised, but by the development
of their minds and hearts. It might be asked if it was not the business of rural experts to
teach agriculture. But a poet of my country had said that it took a soul to move a pig into
a cleaner sty. It was necessary for a man who was to teach agriculture well to know something
higher than agriculture. The teacher must be more advanced than his pupils. There must be a
source from which the energy of the rural teacher must be again and again renewed. There must
be a well from which he must be continually refreshed and stimulated. Some called that well
by the name of religion, unity with God. Some called it faith in mankind, faith in the destiny
of the world, that faith in man which is faith in God. But it must be a real belief, not a
half-hearted, shivering faith.

Agriculture was not only the oldest and the most serviceable calling, it was the foundation
of everything. But the fact must not be lost sight of that agriculture, important and vital
though it was, was only a means to an end. The object in view was to have in the rural districts
better men, women and children. The highest aim of rural progress was to develop the minds
and hearts of the rural population, and in all discussion of the rural problems it was necessary
not to lose in technology a clear view of the final object.

But when account is taken of all the drab materialism in the rural districts there remains
a leaven of unworldliness. It takes various forms. Here is the story of a landlord at whose
beautiful house I stayed. "When a tenant brings his rent rice to this landlord's storehouse,"
a fellow-guest told me, "it is never examined. The door of the storehouse is left unpadlocked,
and the rent rice is brought by the tenant when he is minded to do so. No one takes note of
his coming. If he meets his landlord on the road he may say, 'I brought you the rent,' and
the landlord says, 'It is very kind of you.' It is an old custom not to supervise the tenants'
bringing of the rent.

"Nowadays, however, some tenants are sly. They say, 'Our landlord never looks into our payments.
Therefore we can bring him inferior rice or less than the quantity.' The landlord loses somewhat
by this, but it is not in accordance with the honour of his family to change the method of
collecting his rent. He is now chairman of the village co-operative society as well as of the
young men's society, and he aims to improve his village fundamentally."

I also heard this narrative. The tenants in a certain place wished to cultivate rice land rather
than to farm dry land. But when silkworm cultivation became prosperous they began to prefer
dry land again in order that they might extend the area of mulberries. Therefore the landlords
raised the rents of the dry farms. But there was one landlord who said, "If this dry farm land
had been improved by me I should be justified in raising the rent. But I did not improve it.
Therefore it would be base to take advantage of economic conditions to raise the rent."

So he did not raise the rent. Then he was excluded from social intercourse by the other landlords
because their tenants grumbled. These landlords said to him, "You can afford not to raise your
rents, but we cannot." Therefore the landlord who had not raised his rents called his tenants
together. He said to them, "It is a hard thing for me to have no social intercourse with my
equals. Therefore I will now raise the rents. But I cannot accept that raised portion, and
I will take care of it for you, and in ten years I think it will amount to enough for you to
start a cooperative society."

That was eight years ago and the formation of the society was now proceeding. In order that
the reader may not forget on what a very different scale landlordism exists in Japan, I may
mention that the area owned by this landlord was only 10 chō.

I was told the story of a landlord's solution of the rent reduction problem. "Tenants," the
narrator said, "sometimes pretend that their crops are poorer than they are. Landlords may
reduce the payment due, but sometimes with a certain resentment. One landowner was asked for
a reduction for several years in succession on account of poor crops, and gave it. But he was
trying to think of a plan to defeat the pretences of his tenants. At last he hit on one. While
the tenants' rice was young he often visited the fields, and when any insects were to be seen
he sent his labourers secretly to destroy them. In the same way, when crops seemed to be under-manured,
he secretly cast artificial manure on them. At last his tenants found out what he was doing,
and they said, 'As our landlord is so kind to us, we must not pretend that we need a reduction.'
And they did not, and things are going on very well there. This is an illustration of the fact
that our people are moved more by feeling than by logic."

This was capped by another story. "A landlord, a samurai, has for his tenants his former subjects,
so something of the relation of master and servant still remains. He wished to raise his tenants
to the position of peasant proprietors, so when land was for sale in the village he advised
them to buy. They said they had no money, but he answered, 'Means may perhaps be found.' He
secretly subscribed a sum to the Shinto shrine and then advised the formation of a co-operative
society, which could borrow from the shrine for a tenant, so that the tenant need not go to
the landlord to thank him and feel patronised by him. He need only to go to the shrine and
give thanks there." "The landlord," added the speaker in his imperfect English, "has entirely
hided himself from the business." A third of the tenants had become peasant proprietors.

In order to better the feeling between the farmers and landowners this landlord and several
others had begun to ask their tenants to their gardens, where they were given tea and fruit.
"In Japan," said one man to me, "we see feudal ideas broken down by the upper, not the lower
class."

I visited the romantic coast of a peninsula a dozen miles from the railway. Some 10,000 pilgrims
come in a year to the eighty-eight temples on the peninsula, and in some parts the people are
such strict Buddhists that in one village the county authorities find great difficulty in overcoming
an objection to destroying the insect life which preys on the rice crops. When rice land does
not yield well, one landlord causes an investigation to be made and gives advice based upon
it to the tenant, saying, "Do this, and if you lose I will compensate you. If you gain, the
advantage will be yours." Money is also contributed by the landlord to enable tenants to make
journeys in order to study farming methods.

A landlord here--I had the pleasure of being his guest--had started an agricultural association.
It had developed the idea of a secondary school for practical instruction, "rich men to give
their money and poor men their labour." In order to obtain a fund to enable tenants to get
money with which to set up as peasant proprietors, this landlord had thought of the plan of
setting aside each harvest 250 shō[27] of rice to each tenant's 3 shō.

Good work was done in teaching farmers' wives. "When no instruction is given," I was informed,
"a wife may say, when her husband is testing his rice seed with salt water, 'Salt is very dear,
nowadays, why not fresh water?' If a husband is kind he will explain. If not, some unpleasantness
may arise, so wives are taught about the necessity of selecting by salt water."

Tenants are advised to save a farthing a day. In order to keep them steadfast in their thriftiness
they are asked to bring their savings to their landlord every ten days. It is troublesome to
be constantly receiving so many small sums, but the landlord and his brother think that they
should not grudge the trouble. In two years nearly 1,000 yen have been saved. Said one tenant
to his landlord, "I know how to save now, therefore I save."

One of my hosts, who was thirty-two, hoped to see all his tenants peasant proprietors before
he was fifty. The relation of this landlord and his tenants was illustrated by the fact that
on my arrival several farmers brought produce to the kitchen "because we heard that the landlord
had guests." The village was very kind in its reception of the foreign visitor. A meeting was
called in the temple. I told the story of Wren's Si monumentum requiris circumspice and pointed
a rural moral. Some months afterwards I received a request from my host to write a word or
two of preface to go with a report of my address which he was giving to each of his tenants
as a New Year gift.

This landlord's family had lived in the same house for eleven generations. The courtesy of
my host and his relatives and the beauty of their old house and its contents are an ineffaceable
memory. From the time my party arrived until the time we left no servant was allowed to do
anything for us. The ladies of the house cooked our food and the landlord and his younger brother
brought it to us. The younger brother waited upon us throughout our meals, even peeling our
pears. At night he spread our silk-covered futon (mattresses). In the morning he folded them
up, arranged my clothes, swept the room and stood at hand with towels, all of which were new,
while I washed.

When on our arrival in the house we sat and talked in the first reception-room we entered,
I noticed that outside the lattice a company of villagers was listening with no consciousness
of intrusion, in full view of our host, to the sound of foreign speech. It was a Shakespearean
scene.

Out of its setting, as it is often witnessed to-day, the tea ceremony seems meaningless and
wearisome, an affected simplicity of the idle. But as a guest of this old house of fine timbers
weathered to silver-grey I found the secret of Cha-no-yu. This flower of Far Eastern civilisation
is an æsthetic expression of true good-fellowship, and a gentle simplicity and sincerity are
of its essence. The admission of a foreigner to a family Cha-no-yu was a gesture of confidence.

Five of us gathered late in the afternoon of an August day in the cool matted rest-room in
the garden. We looked on the beauty that generations of gardeners of a single vision had created.
Our minds rested in the quiet as in the quaint phrase, we "tasted the sound of the kettle and
listened to the incense." At length at a signal we rose. Led by the priestess of the ceremony,
our host's aunt, a slight figure in grey with snow-white tabi and new straw sandals, we passed
by the dripping rocky fountain, with its lilies, and the azure hydrangea of the hills which,
some say, suggests distance. The hut-like tea-room, traditionally rude in the material of which
it was built but perfect in every detail of its workmanship, we entered one by one. According
to old custom we humbly crept through the small opening which serves as entrance, the idea
being that all worldly rank must bow at the sanctuary of beauty. The tiny chamber held, besides
the wonderful vessels of the ceremony, a flower arrangement of blue Michaelmas daisies, and
an exquisite scroll of wild duck in flight in the miniature tokonoma,[28] the tea mistress,
our host and four guests. We drank from a black daimyo bowl which had been made four hundred
years before. We passed an hour together and in the twilight we came out from the little room
as from a sacrament of friendship. A year afterwards my host wrote to me, "Yesterday we had
Cha-no-yu again and you were in our thoughts. During the ceremony we placed your photograph
in the tokonoma."

After dinner we had kyōgen[29] by distinguished amateurs, one of whom, a neighbouring landowner,
had lately appeared before the Emperor. After the plays he painted kyōgen scenes for us on
kakemono and fans. He painted the kakemono as he knelt with his paper lying on a square of
soft material on the floor.

The plays were performed in ancient costumes or copies of old ones and of course without scenery.
The players were lighted by oily candles two inches in diameter, which flamed and guttered
in candlesticks not of this century nor of the last. A player may make his exit merely by sitting
down. The players are men; masks are used in playing women's parts. The stories are of the
simplest. There was the well-known tale of the sly servant who was sent to town by a stupid
daimyo in order to buy a fan, and, though he brought back an umbrella, succeeded in imposing
it on his master. There was also the play of the fox who comes to a farmer to advise him not
to kill foxes, but is himself caught in a trap. I also recall a story of two good tenants who
had been rewarded by their landlord with an order that they should receive hats. Owing to an
oversight they received one hat only between the two. Problem, how to meet the difficulty.
It was solved by the rustics fastening two pieces of wood together T-shape, raising the hat
of honour upon the structure and walking home in triumph under either side of the T.

The next morning I was greeted by the aged father and mother of our host. The household was
an interesting one, for the landlord and his brother were married to two sisters. Before taking
our departure we knelt with our landlord and his father before the Buddhist shrine on which
rested the memorial tablets of former heads of the house. I expressed my sense of the privilege
extended to strangers. The reply was, "Our ancestors will feel pleasure in your being among us."

FOOTNOTES:

[25] Samurai or shizoku comprise about a twentieth of the population.

[26] Every Japanese signs by means of a stone or hard-wood seal which he keeps in a case and
ordinarily carries with him.

[27] A shō is about a quart and a half.

[28] The raised recess in which is usually displayed the flower arrangement, a piece of pottery
and a kakemono. (See Note, page 35.)

[29] Farcical interludes of the Nō stage.

CHAPTER V

COUNTRY-HOUSE LIFE

The sense of a common humanity is a real political force.--J.R. GREEN

The stranger in Japan sees so little of the intimacies of country life that I shall say something
of further visits to what we should call county families. My hosts, who seemed to be active
to a greater or less degree in promoting the welfare of their tenants, lived in purely Japanese
style. Yet now and then in a beautiful house there was a showy gilt timepiece or some other
thing of a deplorable Western fashion. At all the houses without exception we were waited upon
by the host and his son, son-in-law or brother, and for some time after our arrival our host
and the members of his family would kneel, not in the apartment in which our zabuton (kneeling
cushions) were arranged, but in the adjoining apartment with its screens pushed back. Even
when the time of sweets and tea had passed and a regular meal was served, all the little tables
of food were brought in not by servants but by the master of the house and such male relatives
as were at home.

When the duration of a Japanese meal is borne in mind, some idea may be gained of the fatigue
endured by the head of a house in serving many guests. The host sometimes honours his guests
still further by eating apart from them or by partaking of a portion only of the meal. The
name of a feast in Japanese is significant, "a running about." The ladies of the house are
usually seen for only a few minutes, when they come with the children to welcome the guests
on their arrival; but on the second day of the visit the ladies may bring in food or tea or
play the koto.

The foreigner, though on his knees, feels a little at a loss to know how to acknowledge politely
the repeated bows of so many kneeling men and women. He watches with appreciation the perfect
response of his Japanese travelling companions. It is difficult to convey a sense of the charm
and dignity of old courtesies exchanged with sincerity between well-bred people in a fine old
house. Although all the shoji[30] are open, the trees of the beautiful garden cast a pensive
shade. The ancient ceremonial of welcome and introduction would seem ludicrous in the full
light of a Western drawing-room, but in the perfectly subdued light of these romantically beautiful
apartments, charged with some strange and melancholy emotion, the visitor from the West feels
himself entering upon the rare experience of a new world.

Everyone knows how few are the treasures that a Japanese displays in his house. His heirlooms
and works of art are stored in a fireproof annexe. For the feasting of the eye of every guest
or party of visitors the appropriate choice of kakemono,[31] carving or pottery is made. I
had the delight of seeing during my country-house visiting many ancient pictures of country
life and of animals and birds. It was also a precious opportunity to inspect armour and wonderful
swords and stands of arrows in the houses in which the men who had worn the armour and used
the weapons had lived. The way of stringing the seven-feet-high bow was shown to me by a kimono-clad
samurai, as has been recorded in the previous chapter. When he threw himself into a warlike
attitude and with an ancient cry whirled a gleaming two-handed sword in the dim light thrown
by lanterns which had lighted the house in the time of the Shoguns, the figures on old-time
Japanese prints had a new vividness.

What also helped in illuminating for me the old prints of warlike scenes was a display of a
remarkable kind of fencing with naked weapons which one of my hosts kindly provided in his
garden one evening. The tournament was conducted by the village young men's association. The
exercises, which, as I saw them, are peculiar to the district, are called ki-ai, which means
literally "spirit meeting." They call not only for long training but for courage and ardour.
The combats took place on a small patch of grass which was fenced by four bamboo branches.
These were connected by a rope of paper streamers such as are used to distinguish a consecrated
place. Before the first bout the bamboos and rope were taken away and a handful of salt was
thrown on the grass. Salt was similarly thrown on the grass before every contest. The idea
is that salt is a purifier. It signifies, like the handshake of our boxers, that the feelings
of the combatants are cleansed from malice.

Most of the events were single combats, but there were two meetings in which a man confronted
a couple of assailants. The contests I recall were spear v. spear, spear v. sword, sword v.
long billhook, spear v. the short Japanese sickle and a chain, spear v. paper umbrella and
sword, pole v. wooden sword, pole v. pole, and long billhook v. fan and sword. The weapons
were sharp enough to inflict serious wounds if a false move should be made or there should
be a momentary lack of self-control. The flashing steel gave an impression of imminent danger.
There was also the feeling aroused in the spectators by the way in which the combatants sought
to gain advantage over one another by fierce snarls, stamping on the ground and appalling gestures.
The neck veins of the fighters swelled and their faces flamed with mock defiance. Their agility
in escaping descending blades was amazing. But the ki-ai player's dexterity is famous. It is
his boast that with his sword he could cut a straw on a friend's head. I noticed that no women
were present at the "spirit meeting."

More than once I found that my landlord host was accustomed to make a circuit of his village
once or twice a week in order to see how things were going with his tenants. Public-spirited
landlords were working for their people by means of co-operation, lectures and prizes, the
distribution of leaflets and the giving of from 2-1/2 to 7-1/2 per cent. discount in rent when
good rice was produced. The rural philanthropist in Japan sees himself as the father of his
village.[32] The Japanese word for landlord is "land master" and for tenant "son tiller." The
old idea was patronage on the one side and respect on the other. This idea is disappearing.
"We wish," said one landlord to me, "to pass through the transition stage gradually. We do
not feel the same responsibility to our people, perhaps, now that they do not show the same
reverence for us, but we do not say to them that they may go to the factory and we will invest
our money for our children. We check ourselves. We know well, however, that things will change
in our grandsons' time. We therefore try to mix our grandfathers' ideas and modern ideas. We
are believers in co-operation and we try to be counsellors and to work behind the curtain."

From time to time there are such things as tenants' strikes. Mr. Yamasaki assured me that the
problem of the rural districts can be solved only by appealing to the feelings of the people
in the right way. He said that "the Japanese are largely moved by feelings, not by convictions."
In some coastwise counties, someone told me, a hurricane destroyed the crops to such an extent
that the tenants could not pay rent, and the landlords who depended on their rents were impoverished.
Things reached such a pass that a hundred thousand peasants signed a paper swearing fidelity
to an anti-landlord propaganda. Officials and lawyers achieved nothing. Then Mr. Yamasaki went,
and, sitting in the local temple, talked things over with both sides for days. He got the landlords
to say that they were sorry for their tenants and the tenants to say that they were sorry for
the landlords, and eventually he was allowed to burn the oath-attested document in the temple.[33]

Many landlords are "endeavouring to cultivate a moral relation" between themselves and their
tenants. They have often the advantage that their ancestors were the landlords of the same
peasant families for many generations. But there are still plenty of absentee landlords and
landlords who are usurers. There are also the landlords who have let their lands to middlemen.
The cultivator therefore pays out of all proportion to what the landlord receives. Of landlords
generally, an ex-daimyo's son said to me: "Many landlords treat their tenants cruelly. The
rent enforced is too high. In place of the intimate relations of former days the relations
are now that of cat and dog. The ignorance of the landlords is the cause of this state of things.
It is very important that the landlord's son shall go to the agricultural school, where there
is plenty of practical work which will bring the perspiration from him." The object of most
good landlords is to increase the income of their tenants. It is felt that unless the farmers
have more money in their hands, progress is impossible. There is one direction in which the
landlords are not tried. The franchise is so narrow that farmers cannot vote against their
landlords.

In the house of one old landowning family in which I was a guest I saw a gaku inscribed, "Happiness
comes to the house whose ancestors were virtuous." I was admitted to the family shrine. Round
the walls of the small apartment in which the shrine stood were the autographs or portraits
of distinguished members of the house going back four or five hundred years. It was easy to
see that the inspiring force of this family was its untarnished name. It was a crime against
the ancestors to reduce the prestige or merit of the family. No stronger influence could be
exerted upon an erring member of such a family than to be brought by his father or elder brother
before the family shrine and there reprimanded in the presence of the ancestral spirits. The
head of this house is at present a schoolboy of twelve and the government of the family is
in the hands of a "regent," the lad's uncle. I saw the boy and his younger sister trot off
in the morning with their satchels on their backs to the village school in democratic Japanese
fashion. Japan is a much more democratic country than the tourist imagines. Distinctions of
class are accompanied by easy relations in many important matters.

I went for a second time to the restful city of Nagoya. It is out of the sphere of influence
of Tokyo and is conservative of old ideas. People live with less display than in the capital
and perhaps pride themselves on doing so. But if the houses of even the well-to-do are small
and inconspicuous, the interiors are of satisfying quality in materials and workmanship, and
the family godowns bring forth surprises. Here as elsewhere the guest is served in treasured
lacquer and porcelain. (While we are not accustomed in the West to look at the marks on our
host's table silver, it is perfect Japanese manners to admire a food bowl by examining the
potter's marks.) My host hung a rural kakemono in my room, one day a fine old study of poultry,
another an equally beautiful painting of hollyhocks.

As we left the town my attention was attracted by a commemorative stone overlooking rice fields.
The inscription proclaimed the fact that at that spot the late Emperor Meiji,[34] as a lad
of fifteen, on his historic first journey to Tokyo, "beheld the farmers reaping."

The matron of a farmhouse two centuries old showed me a tub containing tiny carp which she
had hatched for her carp pond, the inmates of which, as is common, came to be fed when she
clapped her hands. In the garden there was an old clay butt still used for archery. In the
farmhouse I was taken into a room in which in the old days the daimyo overlord had rested,
into another room which had a secret door and into a third room where--an electric fan was buzzing.

At a school I had to face the usual ordeal of having to "write" as best I could a motto for
use as a wall picture. Our lettering, when done with a brush, falls pitifully behind Chinese
characters in decorative value, and our mottoes will not readily translate into Japanese. I
was often grateful to Henley for "I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul,"
because with the substitution of "commander" for captain, the lines translate literally.

We left the village through arches which had been erected by the young men's association. At
an old country house four interesting things were shown to me. There was, first, a phial of
rice seed 230 years old. The agricultural professor who was my fellow-guest told me that he
had germinated some of the grains, but they did not produce rice plants. The second thing was
a fine family shrine before which a religious ceremony had been performed twice a day by succeeding
generations of the same family for 350 years. The third object of interest was a little, narrow,
flat steel dagger about eight inches long, sheathed in the scabbard of a sword. The dagger
was used for "fastening an enemy's head on." After the owner of the sword had beheaded his
foe, he drew the smaller weapon, and, thrusting one end into the headless trunk and the other
end into the base of the head, politely united head and body once more, thus making it possible
"to show due respect and sympathy towards the dead." Finally, I had the privilege of handling
a wonderful suit of armour which was fitted slowly together for me out of many pieces. Although
it had been made several centuries ago, this rich suit of lacquered leather had been a Japanese
general's wear on the field of battle within living memory.

One of the landowners I met was a poet who had been successful in the Imperial poem competition
which is held every New Year. A subject is set by His Majesty and the thousands of pieces sent
in are submitted to a committee. The dozen best productions are read before the sovereign himself,
and this is the honour sought by the competitors. The subject for competition in the year in
which the landowner had been successful was, "The cryptomeria in a temple court." His poem
was as follows:

        In transplanting
        The young cryptomeria trees
        Within the sacred fence
        There is a symbol
        Of the beginning of the reign.

The New Year poems come from every class of the community and there is seldom a year in which
landowners or farmers are not among the fortunate twelve.

As we rode along a companion spoke of the force of public opinion in keeping things straight
in the countryside, also of the far-reaching control exercised by fathers and elder brothers.
But the good behaviour of some people was due, he said, to a dread of being ridiculed in the
newspapers, which allow themselves extraordinary freedom in dealing with reputations.

I met a man who had had a monument erected to him. He was a member of a little company which
received me in a farmer's house. He was formerly the richest man in the village, that is to
say, he owned 20 chō and was worth about 100,000 yen. Moved by the poverty of his neighbours,
he devoted his substance to improving their condition. Now many of them are well off, the village
has been "praised and rewarded" by the prefecture for its "good farming and good morals," and
the philanthropist is worth only 50,000 yen. Impressed by his unselfishness, the village has
raised a great slab of stone in his honour.

I made enquiries continually about the influence exerted by priests. I was told of many "careless"
priests, but also of others who delivered sermons of a practical sort. A few of the younger
priests were described as "philosophical" and some preached "the kingdom of God is within you."
Many people laid stress on the necessity for a better education of the priesthood and for combating
superstition among the peasantry, though the schools had already had a powerful influence in
shaking the faith of thousands of the common people in charms and suchlike. Many folk put up
charms because it was the custom or to please their old parents or because it could do no harm.

I was told that the Government does not encourage the erection of new temples. Its notion is
that it is better to maintain the existing temples adequately. When I went to see a gorgeous
new temple, I found that official permission for its erection had been obtained because the
figures, vessels and some of the fittings of an old and dilapidated temple were to be used
in the new edifice. This temple was on a large tract of land which had recently been recovered
from the sea. The building had cost between 80,000 and 90,000 yen. It stood on piles on rising
ground and had a secondary purpose in that it offered a place of refuge to the settlers on
the new land if the sea dike should break.

The founder of the temple was the man who had drained the land and established the colony.
He had given an endowment of 500 yen a year, three-quarters of which was for the priest. This
functionary had also an income of 150 yen from a chō of land attached to the temple. Further
he received gifts of rice and vegetables. I noticed that the gifts of rice--acknowledged on
a list hung up in his house--varied in quantity from four pecks to half a cupful. Probably
the priest bought very little of anything. If he needed matting for his house, which was attached
to the temple, or if he had to make a journey, the villagers saw that his requirements were
met. And he was always getting presents of one kind or another. "A man says to the priest,"
I was told, "'This is too good for me; please accept it.'" The villagers on their side sat
and smoked in one of the temple rooms and drank his reverence's tea for hours before and after
service.[35]

The building of the temple was not only an act of piety but a work of commercial necessity.
The colonists on the reclaimed land would never have settled there if there had not been a
temple to hold them to the place and to provide burial rites for their old parents. Not all
the people were of the same sect of Buddhism, but "they gradually came together." A third of
what a tenant produced went for rent and another third for fertilisers, the remaining third
being his own. The population was 1,800 in 300 families. The average area per family was 2
chō and colonists were expected to start with about 200 yen of capital. Some unpromising tenants
had been sent away and "some had left secretly." Half of the people were in debt to the landlord--the
total indebtedness was about 15,000 yen--for the erection of houses and the purchase of implements
and stock. The rate was 8 per cent. In the district 10 per cent. was quite usual and 12 per
cent. by no means rare. The co-operative society lent at the daily rate of 2-1/2 sen per 100 yen.

The landlord told me that the sea dikes took two years to build and that most of the earth
was carried by women, 5,000 of them. Their labour was cheap and the small quantities of earth
which each woman brought at a time permitted of a better consolidation of an embankment that
was 240 feet wide at the base. More than a million yen were laid out on the work. The reclaimed
land was free of State taxes for half a century, but the landlord made a voluntary gift to
the village of 2,000 yen a year. The yearly rent coming in was already nearly 56,000 yen. The
cost of the management of the drained land and of repairs to the embankment, 20,000 yen a year,
was just met by the profits of a fishpond. A valuable edible seaweed industry was carried on
outside the sea dikes. The landlord mentioned that he had had great difficulty in overcoming
the objections of his grandfather to the investment, but that eventually the old man got so
much interested that at ninety-three he used to march about giving orders.

One day in the course of my journeying I was near a railway station where country people had
assembled to watch the passing of a train by which the Emperor was travelling. No one was permitted
along the line except at specified points which were carefully watched. A young constable who
wore a Russian war medal was opposite the spot where I stood. He politely asked me to keep
one shaku (foot) or so away from the paling. When someone's child pushed itself half-way through
the paling the police instruction was, "Please keep back the little one for, if it should pass
through, other children will no doubt wish to follow." A later request by the constable was
to take off our hats and keep silence when he raised his hand on the approach of the Imperial
train. We were further asked not to point at the Emperor and on no account to cry Banzai. (The
Japanese shout Banzai for the Emperor in his absence and cry Banzai to victorious generals
and admirals, but perfect silence is considered the most respectful way of greeting the Emperor
himself.) The Imperial train, which was preceded by a pilot engine drawing a van full of rather
anxious-looking police, slowed down on approaching the station so that everyone had a chance
of seeing the Emperor, who was facing us. All the school children of the district had been
marshalled where they could get a good view. The Japanese bow of greatest respect--it has been
introduced since the Restoration, I was told--is an inclination of the head so slight that
it does not prevent the person who bows seeing his superior. This bow when made by rows of
people is impressive. Undoubtedly the crowd was moved by the sight of its sovereign. Not a
few people held their hands together in front of them in an attitude of devotion. The day before
I had happened to see first a priest and then a professor examining a magazine which had a
portrait of the Emperor as frontispiece. Both bowed slightly to the print. Coloured portraits
of the Emperor and Empress are on sale in the shops, but in many cases there is a little square
of tissue paper over the Imperial countenances.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] Shoji are the screens which divide a room from the outside. They are a dainty wooden framework
of many divisions, each of which is covered by a sheet of thin white paper. The shoji provide
light and are never painted. The sliding doors between two rooms are karakami (fusuma is a
literary word). They are a wooden framework with thick paper or cloth on both sides of it and
with paper packing between the layers. Karakami are often decorated with writing or may be
painted. No light passes through them.

[31] A writing or a picture on a long perpendicular strip of paper or silk or of paper mounted
on silk, with rollers. The length is about three times the width, which is usually 1 ft. 3
in. or 1 ft. 10 in. The kakemono in the tokonoma of tea-ceremony rooms is about 10 in. wide.

[32] For budgets of large property owners, see Appendix III.

[33] There have been several serious tenants' demonstrations in Aichi during 1921. See Chapter XIX.

[34] Each Emperor receives on his succession a name which is applied to the period of his reign.
The period of Mutsuhito's reign, 1868-1912, is called Meiji; that of the present Emperor Taisho.
Thus the year 1912 would be Taisho I.

[35] It will be remembered that there is only one prefecture in which tea is not grown in larger
or smaller areas, and that it is served economically without sugar or milk.

CHAPTER VI

BEFORE OKUNITAMA-NO-MIKO-NO-KAMI[36]

Nor do I see why we should take it for granted that their gods are unworthy of respect.--Valerius

In Aichi prefecture I was asked to plant trees (persimmons) in the grounds of three temples
or shrines and on the land of several farmers. In an exposed position on a hill-top I found
persimmons being grown on a system under which the landlord provided the land, trees and manures
and the farmer the labour, and the produce was equally divided.

The cryptomeria at one of the shrines I visited were of great age. All of them had lost their
tops by lightning. It cannot be easy for those who have never seen cryptomeria or the redwoods
of California to realise the impression made by dark giant trees that have stood before some
shrine for generations. At the approach to the shrine of which I speak there were venerable
wooden statues. I recall one figure carved in wood as full of life as that of the famous Egyptian
headman.

The aged chief priest, who was assisted by two younger priests, kindly invited me to take part
in a Shinto service. First, I ceremonially washed my hands and rinsed my mouth. Then, having
ascended the steps, my shoes were removed for me so that my hands should not be defiled. On
entering the shrine I knelt opposite the young priests, one of whom brought me the usual evergreen
bough with paper streamers. On receiving it I rose to my feet, passed through the beautiful
building and advanced to what I may call, for the lack of a more accurate term, the altar table.
On this table, which, as is usual in Shinto ceremonies, was of new white wood following the
ancient design, I laid the offering. Then I bowed and gave the customary three smart hand-claps
which summon the attention of the deity of the shrine, and bowed again. On returning to my
former kneeling-place one of the priests offered me saké and a small piece of dried fish in
paper.[37] The chief priest was good enough to read and to hand to me an address headed, "Words
of Congratulation to the Investigator," which may be Englished as follows:

"I, Yukimichi Otsu, the chief priest, speak most respectfully and reverently before the shrine
of the august deity, Okunitama-no-miko-no-kami, and other deities here enshrined: Dr. Robertson
Scott, of England, is here this good day. He comes to see the things of Japan under the governance
of our gracious Emperor. I, having made myself quite pure and clean, open the door of gracious
eyes that they may look upon those who are here. May Dr. Robertson Scott be protected during
night and day, no accident happening wherever he may go. Dr. Robertson Scott goes everywhere
in this country; he may cross a hundred rivers and pass over many hills. May there be no foundering
of his boat, no stumbling of his horse. Offering produce of land and sea, I say this most respectfully
before the shrine."

After the shrine I visited a co-operative store, curiously reminiscent of many a similar rural
enterprise I had seen in Denmark. Sugar, coarser than anything sold at home, was dear. Half
the price paid for sugar in Japan is tax. I was informed that there were no fewer than 400
cooperative organisations in the prefecture.

At several places, although the villagers were busy rice planting, the young men's association
turned out. The young men were reinforced by reservists and came sharply to attention as our
kuruma (jinrikisha, usually pneumatic-tyred) passed. Some of the villages we bowled through
were off the ordinary track, and the older villagers observed the ancient custom of coming
out from their houses or farm plots, dropping on their knees and bowing low as we passed.[38]
All over Japan, a villager encountered on the road removed the towel from his head before bowing.
If a cloak or outer coat was worn, it was taken off or the motion of taking it off was made.
Frequently, in showery weather, cyclists who were wearing mackintoshes or capes, alighted and
removed these outer garments before saluting.

I saw a village which a few years ago had been "disorderly and poor" and in continual friction
with its landlord. Eventually this man realised his responsibility, and, inspired by Mr. Yamasaki,
took the situation in hand. He talked in a straightforward way with his villagers, reduced
a number of rents and spent money freely in ameliorative work. To-day the village is "remarkable
for its good conduct" and the relation between landlord and tenant seems to be everything that
can be desired. The landlord is not only the moving spirit of the co-operative store but has
started a school for girls of from fifteen to twenty. They bring their own food but the schooling
is free.

On the gables of one or two houses near the roof I noticed ventilators which were cut in the
form of the Chinese ideograph which means water, a kind of charm against fire. At the door
of one rather well-to-do peasant house I saw several paper charms against toothache. There
was also an inscription intimating that the householder was a director of the co-operative
society and another announcing that he was an expert in the application of the moxa.[39] Every
house I went into had a collection of charms. One charm, a verse of poetry hung upside-down,
as is the custom, was against ants. Another was understood to ensure the safe return of a straying
cat.

In one house in the village my attention was drawn to the fact that the rice pot contained
a large percentage of barley.

In two or three places I passed pits for the excavation of lignite, which does not look unlike
the wood taken out of bogs. A pit I stopped at was twenty-two fathoms deep. There were twenty
miners at work and air was being pumped down.

One of the things we in the West might imitate with advantage is the village crematorium. In
Japan it is of the simplest construction. The rate for villagers was 50 sen, that for outsiders
2 yen. No doubt there would be an additional yen for the priest. In a little building which
was thirty years old 200 bodies had been cremated.

I looked into a small co-operative rice storehouse. The building was provided by a number of
members "swearing" to save at the rate of a yen and a half a month each until the funds needed
had accumulated. The money was obtained by extra labour in the evening. Just before I left
Japan the Department of Agriculture was arranging to spend 2 million yen within a ten-years'
period to encourage the building of 4,000 rice storehouses.

As I watched the water pouring from one rice field to another and wondered how the rights of
landowners were ever reconciled, someone reminded me of the phrase, "water splashing quarrels,"
that is disputes in which each side blames the other without getting any farther forward. To
take an unfair advantage in controversy is to draw water into one's own paddy. The equivalent
for "pouring water on a duck's back" is "flinging water in a frog's face." A Western European
is always astonished in Japan by the lung power of Far Eastern frogs. The noise is not unlike
the bleating of lambs.

Every now and again one comes on a fragrant bed of lotus in its paddy field. It seems odd at
first that lotus--and burdock--should be cultivated for food. As a pickle burdock is eatable,
but lotus and some unfamiliar tuberous plants are pleasant food resembling in flavour boiled
chestnuts. Konnyaku (hydrosme rivieri), a near relative of the arum lily, is produced to the
weight of 11 million kwan--a kwan is roughly 8-1/4 lbs.[40] The yield of burdock is about 44
million kwan. The chief of all vegetables is the giant radish, of which 7-1/4 million kwan
are grown. Taro yields about 150 million kwan. Foreigners usually like the young sprouts taken
from the roots of the bamboo, a favourite Japanese vegetable.

This is as convenient a place as any to speak of an important agricultural fact, the enormous
amount of filth worked into the paddies. As is well known, hardly any of the night soil of
Japan is wasted. Japanese agriculture depends upon it. Formerly the night soil was removed
from the houses after being emptied into a pair of tubs which the peasant carried from a yoke.
Such yoke-carried tubs are still seen, but are chiefly employed in carrying the substance to
the paddies. The tubs which are taken to dwellings are now mostly borne on light two-wheeled
handcarts which carry sometimes four and sometimes six. A farmer will push or pull his manure
cart from a town ten or twelve miles off. It is difficult to leave or enter a town without
meeting strings of manure carts. The men who haul the carts get together for company on their
tedious journey. They seem insensible to the concentrated odour. Often the wife or son or daughter
may be seen pushing behind a cart. There is a certain amount of transportation by horse-drawn
frame carts, carrying a dozen or sixteen tubs, and by boats. I was told of a city of half a
million inhabitants which had thirty per cent. of its night soil taken ten miles away. The
work was undertaken by a co-operative society which paid the municipality the large sum of
70,000 yen a year. The removal of night soil, its storage in the fields in sunken butts and
concrete cisterns--carefully protected by thatched, wooden or concrete roofs--and its constant
application to paddy fields or upland plots cause an odour to prevail which the visitor to
Japan never forgets.[41]

It must not be supposed that, because the Japanese are careful to utilise human waste products,
no other manure is employed. There is an enormous consumption of chemical fertilisers. Then
there are brought into service all sorts of crop-feeding materials, such as straw, grass, compost,
silkworm waste, fish waste, and of course the manure produced by such stock as is kept.[42]
In Aichi the value of human waste products used on the land is only a quarter of the value
of the bean cake and fish waste similarly employed.

At Mr. Yamasaki's excellent agricultural school (prefectural), which I visited more than once,[43]
I was struck by the grave bearing of the students. I saw them not only in their classrooms
but in their large hall, where I was invited to speak from a platform between the busts of
two rural worthies, Ninomiya, of whom we have heard before, and another who was "distinguished
by the righteousness of his public career." As in the Danish rural high schools, store is set
on hard physical exercise. An hour of exercise--judō (jujitsu), sword play or military drill--is
taken from six to seven in the morning and another at midday with the object of "strengthening
the spirit" and "developing the character," for "our farmers must not only be honest and determined
but courageous." Severe physical labour, shared by the teacher, is also given out of doors,
for example, in heaping manure. "We believe," said one of the instructors, "in moral virtue
taught by the hands."

For an hour a day "the main points of moral virtue" are put before the different grades of
students, according to their ages and development. The school has a guild to which the twenty
teachers and all the students belong. It is a kind of co-operative society for the "purchase
and distribution of daily necessities," but one of its objects is "the maintenance of public
morality." Then there is the students' association which has literary and gymnastic sides,
the one side "to refine wisdom and virtue," the other "for the rousing of spirit." Mention
may also be made of a "discipline calendar" of fixed memorial days and ceremonies "that all
the students should observe": the ceremony of reading the Imperial Rescript on education, thrift
and morality, and the ceremonies at the end of rice planting, at harvest and at the maturity
of the silk-worm. The fitting-up of the school is Spartan but the rooms are high and well lighted
and ventilated. The students' hot bath accommodates a dozen lads at a time. The studies are
also the dormitories, and in the corner of each there is stored a big mosquito netting. Except
for a few square yards near the doors, these rooms consist of the usual raised platform covered
with the national tatami or matting.

I heard a characteristic story of the Director. During the Russo-Japanese war everybody was
economising, and many people who had been in the habit of riding in kuruma began to walk. Our
agricultural celebrity had always had a passion for walking, so it was out of his power to
economise in kuruma. What he did was to cease walking and take to kuruma riding, for, he said,
"in war time one must work one's utmost, and if I move about quickly I can get more done."

I may add a story which this rare man himself told me. I had seen in his house a photograph
of a memorial slab celebrating the heroic death of a peasant. It appeared that in a period
of scarcity there was left in this peasant's village only one unbroken bale of rice. This rice
was in the possession of the peasant, who was suffering from lack of food. But he would not
cook any of the rice because he knew that if he did the village would be without seed in spring.
Eventually the brave man was found dead of hunger in his cottage. His pillow had been the unopened
bale of rice.

In the house of a small peasant proprietor I visited the inscriptions on the two gaku signified
"Buddha's teaching broken by a beautiful face" and "Cast your eyes on high." On the wall there
was also a copy of a resolution concerning a recent Imperial Rescript which 500 rural householders,
at a meeting in the county, had "sworn to observe," and, as I understood, to read two or three
times a year.

Japan, as I have already noted, has always been a more democratic country than is generally
understood; but the people have been accustomed to act under leaders. Some time ago an official
of the Department of Agriculture visited a certain district in order to speak at the local
temple in advocacy of the adjustment of rice fields. (See Chapter VIII.) A dignitary corresponding
to the chairman of an English county council was at the temple to receive the official, but
at the time appointed for the meeting to begin the audience consisted of one old man. Although
the official from Tokyo and the gunchō (head of a county) waited for some time, no one else
put in an appearance. So they asked the old man the reason. He replied by asking them the object
of the meeting. They told him. He said that he had so understood and that the community had
so understood, but the farmers were very busy men. Therefore, as he was the oldest man in the
district, they had sent him as their representative. Their instructions were that he would
be able to tell from his experience of the district whether what the authorities proposed would
be a good thing for it or not. If he considered it to be a bad thing they would not do it,
but if he thought it to be a good thing they would do it. He was to hear all that was said
and then to give a decision on the community's behalf to the officials who might attend. "So,"
said the old man to the Tokyo official and the gunchō, "if you convince me you have convinced
the village." And after two hours' explanation they convinced him!

There are in Japan hydraulic engineering works as remarkable in their way as any I have seen
in the Netherlands. Some of these works, for example the tunnels for conducting rice-field
water through considerable hills, have been the work of unlettered peasants. In one place I
found that 80 miles or more of irrigation was based on a canal made two centuries ago. It is
good to see so many embankings of refractory streams and excavations of river beds commemorated
by slabs recording the public services of the men who, often at their own charges, carried
out these works of general utility.

In various parts of the country I came upon smallholders who had reached a high degree of proficiency
in the fine art of dwarfing trees. One day I stopped to speak with a farmer who by this art
had added 1,000 yen a year to his agricultural income. A thirty-years-old maple was one of
his triumphs. Another was a pomegranate about a foot and a half high. It was in flower and
would bear fruit of ordinary size. The wonder of dwarfing is wrought, as is now well known,
by cramping the roots in the pot and by extremely skilful pruning, manuring and watering. While
we drank tea some choice specimens were displayed before a screen of unrelieved gold. In the
room in which we sat the farmer had arranged in a bowl of water with great effectiveness hydrangea,
a spray of pomegranate and a cabbage.

One marks the respect shown to the rural policeman. In his summer uniform of white cotton,
with his flat white cap and white gloves, and an imposing sword, he looks like a naval officer,
even if, as sometimes happens, his feet are in zori. He gets respect because of his dignified
presence and sense of official duty, because of the considerable powers which he is able to
exercise, because he stands for the Government, and because he is sometimes of a higher social
grade than that to which policemen belong in other countries. At the Restoration many men of
the samurai class did not think it beneath them to enter the new sword-wearing police force
and they helped to give it a standing which has been maintained. As to the policeman being
a representative of the Government, the ordinary Japanese has a way of speaking of the Government
doing this or that as if the Government were irresistible power. Average Japanese do not yet
conceive the Government as something which they have made and may unmake[44]. But is it likely
that they should, parliamentary history, the work of their betters, being as short as it is?
It is not whithout significance that the Chambers of the Diet are housed in temporary wooden
buildings.

The rural policeman is not only a paternal guardian of the peace but an administrative official.
He keeps an eye on public health. He is charged with correctly maintaining the record of names
and addresses--and some other particulars--of everybody in the village. It is his duty to secure
correct information as to the name, age, place of origin and real business of every stranger.
He attends all public meetings, even of the young men's and young women's associations, and
no strolling players can give their entertainment without his presence. As to the movements
of strangers, my own were obviously well known. Indeed a friend told me that in the event of
my losing myself I had only to ask a policeman and he would be able to tell me where I was
expected next! At the houses of well-to-do people I was struck by the way in which the local
police officer--sometimes, no doubt, a sergeant or perhaps a man of the rank of our superintendent
or chief constable--called with the headman and joined our kneeling circle in the reception-room.
Nominally he came to pay his respects, but his chief object, no doubt, was to take stock of
what was going on. I invariably took the opportunity of closely interviewing him.

The extraordinary degree to which Japanese are commonly accustomed in their differences of
opinion to refrain from blows makes many of their quarrels harmless. The threat to send for
the policeman or the actual appearance of the policeman has an almost magical effect in calming
a disturbance. The Japanese policeman believes very much in reproving or reprimanding evil
doers and in reasoning with folk whose "carelessness" has attracted attention. Sometimes for
greater impressiveness the admonitions or exhortations are delivered at the police station[45].
In more than one village I heard a tribute paid to the good influence exerted on a community
by a devoted policeman.

The chief of an agricultural experiment station also seems to obtain a large measure of respect,
to some extent, no doubt, because he occupies a public office. The regard felt for Mr. Yamasaki
goes deeper. A few years ago he was sent on a mission abroad and in his absence his local admirers
cast about for a way of showing their appreciation of his work. They began by raising what
was described to me as "naturally not a large but an honourable sum." With this money they
decided to add three rooms to his dwelling. They had noted how visitors were always coming
to his house in order to profit by his experience and advice. Mr. Yamasaki uses the rooms primarily
as "an hotel for people of good intentions--those who work for better conditions." I was proud
to stay at this "hotel" and to receive as a parting gift an old seppuku blade.

Which reminds me that one night at a house in the country I found myself sitting under photographs
of the late General and Countess Nogi and of the gaunt bloodstained room of the depressing
"foreign style" house in which they committed suicide on the day of the funeral of the Emperor
Meiji[46]. One of my fellow-guests was a professor at the Imperial University; the other was
a teacher of lofty and unselfish spirit. They were both samurai. I mentioned that a man of
worth and distinction has said to me that, while he recognised the nobility of Nogi's action,
he could but not think it unjustifiable. I was at once told that Japanese who do not approve
of Nogi's action "must be over-influenced by Western thought." "Those who are quintessentially
Japanese," it was explained, "think that Nogi did right. Bodily death is nothing, for Nogi
still lives among us as a spirit. He labours with a stronger influence. Many hearts were purified
by his sacrifice. One of Nogi's reasons for suicide was no doubt that he might be able to follow
his beloved Emperor, but his intention was also to warn many vicious or unpatriotic people.
Some politicians and rich people say they are patriotic, but they are animated by selfish motives
and desires. Nogi's suicide was due to his loving his fellow-countrymen sincerely. Surely he
was acting after the manner of Christ. Nogi crucified himself for the people in order to atone
in a measure for their sins and to lead them to a better way of life."

I heard from my friends something of Nogi's demeanour. The old general was a familiar figure
in Tokyo. In the street cars--those were the days when they were not over-crowded--he was always
seen standing. His admirers used to say that his face "beamed with beneficence." But Nogi,
though he loved to be within reach of the Emperor and did his part as head of the Peers' School,
liked nothing better than to get away to the country. He was originally a peasant and he still
possessed a chō of upland holding. He was glad to work on it with the digging mattock of the
farmer.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] Son-God-of-the-Spirit-of-the-Province.

[37] It was a tiny squid. There are seventy sorts of cuttlefish and octopuses in Japanese waters.
Value of dried cuttlefish in 1917, 4 million yen.

[38] The hands are laid flat on the ground with finger-tips meeting and the forehead touches
the hands.

[39] See Chapter XX.

[40] The root grows to about the size of a big apple. It may be seen in the shops in white
dried sections. A stiff greyish jelly made from it is eaten with rice. It is also eaten as
oden or dengaku.

[41] See Appendix IV.

[42] See Appendix XX.

[43] See Appendix V.

[44] The truth is being learnt by the younger generation.

[45] For crime statistics, see Appendix VI.

[46] Harakiri (seppuku is the polite word) still happens. Just before writing this note I read
of the captain of the first company of the Japanese garrison in a Korean town having committed
seppuku because of a sense of responsibility for the irregularities of subordinates. But of
7,239 suicides of men in 1916 only 308 were by cold steel. Of 4,558 cases of women suicides
140 were by steel.

CHAPTER VII

OF "DEVIL-GON" He was shot. There was another bad landlord who, as he was crossing a narrow
bridge over a brook, was "pistolled through the sleeve and tumbled into the water." Although
the murderer was well known, his name was never revealed to the police, and the family of the
dead man was glad to leave the district. The villagers celebrated their freedom by eating the
"red rice" which is prepared on occasions of festivity. In another village, the gunchō who
spoke to me of these things said, there were several usurious landlords. "The village headman
got angry. He called the landlords to him. He said to them that if they continued to lend at
high interest the people would set fire to their houses and he would not proceed against them.
So the landlords became affrighted and amended their lives." The rural people of Japan have
always three weapons against usury, it was explained to me. First, there may be tried injuring
the offending person's house--rural dwellings are mainly bamboo work and mud--by bumping into
it with the heavy palanquin which is carried about the roadway at the time of the annual festival.
If such a hint should prove ineffective, recourse may be had to arson. Finally, there is the
pistol. I remember someone's remark, "A man does not lose a common mind and heart by becoming
a landowner."

I could not travel about the rural districts without there being brought under my eyes the
conditions which lead country girls to go to the towns as joro (prostitutes). A considerable
agricultural authority who had been all over Japan told me that he was in no doubt that most
of the girls adopted an immoral life through poverty. I spoke to this man, who had been abroad,
of the disgrace to Japan involved in the presence of thousands of Japanese joro at Singapore
and so many other ports of the Asiatic mainland. Did these women go there of their free will?
My informant was of opinion that "half are deceived." I remember that on the Japanese steamship
by which I went out to Japan there were several Japanese girls, degraded in aspect and apparently
in ill health, who were returning from Singapore. They were shepherded by an evil-looking fellow.
The parting of these unfortunates from their girl friends as the vessel was about to start
was a piteous sight. An official who called on me in Aichi--I understood that he was the chief
of the prefectural police--told me that there were in the prefecture 2,011 girls in 222 houses,
and that there were in a year 725,598 customers, of whom 2,147 were foreigners. Sums of from
200 to 500 yen might be paid to parents for a girl for a three-years term. Food and clothes
were also provided, but the girls were almost invariably drawn into debt to the keepers, and
not more than 15 per cent. were able to return to their villages. All the girls in the houses
had alleged poverty as the reason for their being there.[47]

Because I was told that the moral condition of the town of Anjo--population 17,000--where the
agricultural school of the prefecture is situated, had improved since its establishment, I
asked for some statistics. I found that there were 23 registered geisha, no joro, 50 teahouse
girls with dubious characters and 55 sellers of saké. Against these figures were to be counted
19 Buddhist temples of four sects with 19 priests and 20 Shinto shrines with 4 priests.

I met a schoolmaster who had prepared a history of his village in a dozen beautifully written
volumes. He had been a vegetarian for fifteen years because, as a Buddhist, he believed that
"all living things are in some degree my relatives." I picked up from him a variant on "the
early bird catches the worm." It was, "The early riser may find a lost rin" (tenth of a farthing).
He gave me another proverb, "The contents of a spitting pot, like riches, become fouler the
more they accumulate."

I heard of temples which were promoting rural improvement by means of lanterns. In one village
the lanterns were at the service of borrowers at three different places. The inscription on
the lanterns says, "Think of the mercy of Buddha who illuminates the darkness of your heart."
There is written in smaller characters, "If you live half a ri away you need not return this
lantern." Three hundred lanterns are lost or damaged in a year, but paper lanterns are cheap.

One temple has a society composed of those who have family graves in its grounds. These people
"study how to get the most abundant crop." There is a prize for the best cultivated tan. Under
this temple's auspices there is not only a co-operative credit and purchase association, a
poultry society and an annual exhibition of agricultural products, but a school for nurses--they
are "taught to be nurses not only physically but morally." The boys and girls of the village
are invited to the temple once a month and "told a story." The youngsters are asked to come
to a "learning meeting" where they must recite or exhibit something they have written or drawn;
"blockheads as well as clever children are encouraged." A fund is being raised so that "a genius
who may be suffering from poverty may be able to get proper education." Then there is a Women's
Religious Association which aims at "the improvement, necessary from a religious point of view,
in the home and of agricultural business." Sermons are given to 500 women monthly. The society
sent comfort bags, containing letters, tooth-brushes and sweets, to soldiers at the taking
of Tsingtao. A similar organisation for men had for thirteen years listened to a monthly lecture
by a well-known priest. It sends occasional subscriptions outside the village. Finally, this
praiseworthy temple issues every month 20,000 copies of a 4-1/2-sen magazine.

The Shinto shrines of the prefecture have in all a little more than 40 chō of land. Someone
has hit on the plan of getting the agricultural societies of the county and villages to provide
the priests with rice seed of superior varieties, the crop of which can be exchanged with farmers
for common rice. This is done on a profitable basis, because the shrines exchange unpolished
rice for polished. A gō of seed rice makes only about .5 gō when husked.

I walked along the road some little way with a Buddhist priest. In answer to my enquiry he
said that as a Buddhist he felt no difficulty about the bag strung across his shoulders being
of leather, for the founder of his sect (Shinshu) ate meat. Even a strict Buddhist might nowadays
eat animals not intentionally killed, animals which had not been seen alive and animals which
were killed painlessly. But my companion abstained as much as possible from meat. As to the
reason why some priests were inactive in the work of rural amelioration, he supposed that their
poverty, the tradition of devoting themselves to unworldly business and the fact that many
of them were hereditary priests accounted for it. He dwelt on the things in common between
Shinshu and Christianity and said that, next to the teaching of the head of the agricultural
college in the prefecture, the preaching of a missionary had led him to work for the good of
his village.

In my host's house in the evening someone happened to quote the proverb, "Richer after the
fire." It means, of course, that after the fire the neighbours are so ready with help that
the last state of the victim of the fire is better than the first. The view was expressed that
hitherto charitable institutions of some Western patterns had not been so much needed in Japan
as might be supposed.[48] "Those who go to Europe from Japan are indeed much surprised by the
number of institutions to help people." Here, however, is the story of an institution coming
into existence in a village: "There was a man who was thought to be rich, but he lived like
a miser. His shoji were made of waste paper and his guests received tea only. So he was despised.
But many years afterwards it was found that for a long time he had been collecting books. Then,
to the surprise of everybody, he built a library for his village. He is not at all proud of
this and those who ridiculed him are now ashamed."

I was invited to a "Rural Life Exhibition." Some agricultural produce was shown, but three
hundred of the exhibits were manuscript books or diagrams. One diagram illustrated the development
in a particular county of the use of two bactericides, formalin and carbon bisulphide. The
formalin was in use to the value of 2,000 yen. Then there was a wall picture, a sort of Japanese
"The Child: What will he Become?" The good boy, aged fifteen, was shown spending his spare
time in making straw rope to the value of 3 sen 3 rin nightly, with the result that after thirty
years of such industry he became a rural capitalist who possessed 1,000 yen and lived in circumstances
of dignity. In contrast with this virtuous career there was shown the rural rake's progress.
A youth who was in the habit of laying out 3 sen 3 rin riotously in sweet-shops was proved
to have wasted 1,000 yen in thirty years: the prodigal was justly exhibited fleeing from his
home in debt.

One of the books on exhibition mentioned the volumes most in demand at some village library.
I translate the titles:

        Physical and Intellectual Training
        About being Ambitious
        The Housewife of a Peasant Family
        The Management of a Farm
        The Days when Statesmen were Boys
        Culture and Striving
        Essence of Rural Improvement
        A Hundred Beautiful Stories
        The Art of Composition
        The Preparation of the Conscript
        A Medical Treatise
        A Translation of "Self-Help"
        Nature and Human Life
        The Glories of Native Places
        Anecdotes concerning Culture
        Lives of Distinguished Peasants
        Mulberry Planting
        Chinese Romances
        Glories of this Peaceful Reign
        Ninomiya Sontoku

I noticed among the exhibits a short autobiography of a farmer, an engaging egoist who wrote:

"As a young man my will was not in study and though I used my wits I did many stupid things
and the results were bad. Then I became a little awakened and for two years I studied at night
with the primary school teacher. After that I thought to myself in secret, 'Shall I become
a wise man in this village, or, by diligently farming, a rich man?' That was my spiritual problem.
Then all my family gathered together and consulted and decided[49] that it would suit the family
better if I were to become a rich man, and I also agreed. To accomplish that aim I increased
my area under cultivation and worked hard day and night. I cut down the cryptomeria at my homestead
and planted in their stead mulberries and persimmons. And I slowly changed my dry land into
rice fields (making it therefore more valuable). The soil I got I heaped up at the homestead
for eighteen years until I had 28,000 cubic feet. I was able then to raise the level of my
house which had become damp and covered with mould. The increase of my cultivated area and
of the yield per tan and the improvement of my house and the practice of economy were the delight
of my life. I felt grateful to my ancestors who gave me such a strong body. Sometimes I kept
awake all night talking with my wife about the goodness of my ancestors. Also when in bed I
planned a compact homestead. I once read a Japanese poem, 'What a joy to be born in this peaceful
reign and to be favoured by ploughs and horses.' (Most Japanese farming is done without either
horses or ploughs.) It went deeply into my heart. Also I heard from the school teacher of four
loves: love of State, love of Emperor, love of teacher and love of parent. I have been much
favoured by those loves. I also heard the doctrines of Ninomiya: sincerity, diligence, moderate
living, unselfishness. I felt it a great joy to live remembering those doctrines. I also went
to the prefectural experiment station and studied fruit growing and my spirit was much expanded.
I returned again to the station and the expert talked to me very earnestly. I asked for a special
variety of persimmon. The expert sent to Gifu prefecture for it. I planted the tree and made
its top into six grafts. It bore fruit and many passers-by envied it. Two years after that
I grafted five hundred trees and sold the grafted stock."

Several villages sent to the exhibition statistics of great interest. One village set forth
the changes which had taken place in the social status of its inhabitants[50]. Some communities
were represented by statements of their hours of labour[51]. One small community's tables showed
how many of its inhabitants were "diligent people," how many "average workers" and how many
"other people[52]." A county agricultural association had painstakingly collected information
not only about the work done in a year[53] and the financial returns obtained by three typical
farmers but about the way in which they spent what they earned.[54]

On my way back from the exhibition I heard the story of a priest. When fourteen years of age
he obtained seeds of cryptomeria and planted them in a spot in the hills. He also practised
many economies. When still in his teens he asked permission to take two shares in a 50-yen
money-sharing club, but was not allowed to do so as no one would believe that he could complete
his payments. He persisted, however, that he would be able to pay what was required and he
was at length accepted as a member. At twenty he became priest of a small temple which was
in bad repair and had a debt of 125 yen. He brought with him his 100 yen from the club and
the young cryptomeria. He planted the trees in the temple grounds. He said, "I wish to rebuild
the temple when these trees grow up." He cultivated the land adjoining his temple and contrived
to employ several labourers. At last the cryptomeria grew large enough for his purpose and
he rebuilt the temple, expending on the work not only his trees but 600 yen which he had by
this time saved. Then he proceeded to bring waste land into cultivation. At the age of sixty-two
he gave his temple to another priest and went to live in a hut on the waste land. There came
a tidal wave near the place, so he went to the sufferers and invited five families to his now
cultivated waste land. He gave them each a tan of land and the material for building cottages
and showed them how to open more land.

A good judge expressed the opinion that Buddhism was flourishing in 80 per cent. of the villages
of Aichi, but this was in a material and ceremonial sense. The prefectures of Aichi and Niigata
had been called the "kitchens of Hongwanji"[55] (the great temple at Kyoto), such liberal contributions
were forthcoming from them. "A belief in progress," this speaker said, "may be a substitute
for religion for many of our people; another substitute is a belief in Japan." A village headman
from the next prefecture (Shidzuoka) said: "People in my village do not omit to perform their
Buddhist ceremonies, but they are not at their hearts religious. In our prefecture the influence
of Ninomiya is greater than that of Buddhism. If the villagers are good it is Ninomiyan principles
that make them so. Under Ninomiyan influence the spirit of association has been aroused, thriftiness
has been encouraged and extravagance reprimanded."

I told Mr. Yamasaki one day that there was an old Scotswoman who divided good people into "rael
Christians and guid moral fowk." What I was curious to know was what proportion of Japanese
rural people might be fairly called "real Buddhists" and what proportion "good moral folk."
"There are certainly some real Buddhists, not merely good moral folk," he assured me. "If you
penetrate deeply into the lives of the people you will be able to find a great number of them.
In ordinary daily life, during a period when nothing extraordinary happens, it is not easy
to distinguish the two classes; but when any trouble comes then those real religious people
are undismayed, while the ordinarily good moral people may sometimes go astray. The proportion
of religious people is rather large among the poor compared with the middle and upper classes.
These poor people are always weighted with many troubles which would be a calamity to persons
of the middle or upper classes. Such humble folk get support for their lives from what is in
their hearts. Though they may suffer privation or loss they are glad that they can live on
by the mercy of Buddha. There are some religious people even among those who are not poor.
They are usually people who have lost some of their riches suddenly, or a dear child, or have
been deprived of high position, or have met some kind of misfortune. Sometimes a man may become
religious because he feels deeply the misfortunes or miseries of a neighbour or the miseries
of war. Or his religion may come by meditation. A man who begins to be religious is not, however,
at once noticed. On the contrary, if he is a true believer his daily life will be most ordinary."

One day I passed a primary school playground. The girls had just finished and the boys were
beginning Swedish drill. Everyone engaged in the drill, including the master, was barefoot.

I saw that some of the cottages were built in an Essex fashion, of puddled clay and chopped
straw faced with tarred boards. Some dwellings, however, were faced with straw instead of boards.
They had just had their wall thatch renewed for the winter.

In one spot there was a quarter of a mile of wooden aqueduct for the service of the paddy fields.
Much agricultural pumping is done in Aichi. I visited an irrigation installation where pumps
(from London) were turning barren hill tops into paddy fields.[56] The work was being done
by a co-operative society of 550 members who had borrowed the 40,000 yen they needed from a
bank on an undertaking to repay in fifteen years.

It was stated that common paddy near Anjo had been bought at 5,000 yen per chō and not for
building purposes. When one member of our company said, "The farmers here are rivalling each
other in hard work," the weightiest authority among us replied: "What the farmer must do is
to work not harder but better. At present he is not working on scientific principles. The hours
he is spending on really profitable labour are not many. He must work more rationally. In 26
villages in the south-west of Japan, where farming calls for much labour, it was found that
the number of days' work in the year was only 192. Statistics for Eastern Japan give 186 days.[57]
As to a secondary industry, one or two hours' work a night at straw rope making for a month
may bring in a yen because the market for rope is confined to Japan. The same with zori, a
coarse sort being purchasable for 2 sen a pair. But supplementary work like silk-worm culture
produces an article of luxury for which there is a world market."

When we returned home my host was kind enough to summarise for me--the general reader may skip
here--some of the reasons set forth by a professor of agricultural politics for the farmer's
position being what it is:

1. The average area cultivated per family is very small.

2. The law of diminishing return.

3. Imperfection of the agricultural system. Mainly crop raising, not a combination of crop
and stock raising, as in England. No profitable secondary business but silkworm culture. Therefore
the distribution of labour throughout the year is not good and the number of days of effective
labour is relatively small.

4. The commercial side of agriculture has not been sufficiently developed.

5. There has been a rise in the standard of living. In the old days the farmer did not complain;
he thought his lot could not be changed. He was forbidden to adopt a new calling and he was
restricted by law to a frugal way of living. Now farmers can be soldiers, merchants or officials
and can live as they please. They begin to compare their standard of living with that of other
callings. What were once not felt to be miseries are now regarded as such.

6. Formerly the farmer had not the expense of education and of losing the services of his sons
to the army. There is also an increase in taxation. A representative family which incurred
a public expenditure, not including education, of 12.86 yen in 1890, paid in 1898 19.68 yen.
In 1908 it was faced by a claim for 34.28 yen.[58]

7. Although the area of land does not increase in relation to the increase of population, the
size of the peasant family is increasing owing to the decrease of infanticide and abortion
and the development of sanitation.

8. The farmer suffers from debts at high interest.

9. The character, morality and ability of the farmer are not yet fully developed.

10. Formerly the farmer lived an economically self-contained existence. He had no great need
of money. He must now sell his produce on a market with wider and wider fluctuations.

11. There are many expensive customs and habits, for instance the two or three days' feasting
at weddings and funerals.

During the evening I was told this story. In a village in a far part of the prefecture there
lived a farmer called Yosōgi. He was a thrifty and diligent man. When he became old he gave
all that he had to his son. But the old man could not stop working. He would go to the farm
and help his son. The son did not like this. He wanted his old father to rest. In the end he
found that the only way to cope with his industrious parent was to work very hard and leave
him nothing to do. But the old man was not to be balked. He took himself off to the hillside
and began to make a paddy field where there had never been a paddy field before. To make a
paddy field on such a slope is a difficult task. The land must be embanked with stones and
then levelled. The building of the strong embankment alone calls for much labour. The old man
toiled very hard at his job and sometimes his son in despair sent his labourers to help him.
At length the paddy field was finished. But it was only a tenth of a tan in area. When the
son saw the small result of so much labour he said to his father, "I grieve for the way you
have toiled. You have laboured hard for many days and my labourers have helped you, but all
that has been accomplished is the making of a paddy field so small and distant that it is uneconomical."

To this the old man replied: "When you go to Tokyo and see the graveyard at Aoyama you will
behold there many monuments of generals and ministers of State. Their merits and their works
in this world are described on those monuments. But do you know where the monument of the famous
hero Kusunoki Masashige is? It is near Kobe, and it is not more than half as big as those monuments
at Tokyo. Do you know where the monument of the great Taiko is? It is in Kyoto, but it is only
recently that this monument was put up. Thus the monuments of our greatest heroes are small
or have been erected recently. The reason is that it is unnecessary to raise big monuments
for them because what they did in their lives was in itself their monument. They built their
monument in the hearts of the people. Therefore we can never judge from the size of the monument
the kind of work which was accomplished by the man who sleeps under it. Monuments are not only
for ministers and warriors. We peasants can also erect monuments in our own way. To open a
new paddy field, to plant the bare hillside with trees, these are our monuments. How lonely
it would be for me if there were no monument left after my death. However small this paddy
field may be, it will not be forgotten so long as it yields for your posterity the blessing
of its rice crop." "Happily," the interpreter added, "the old man did not die so soon as he
thought he would do. He lived for several years and planted the bare hillside with trees. Now
the wood which grows there is worth 10,000 yen."

A peasant proprietor expressed the conviction that goodness in a family was "not the result
of its own efforts but of the accumulation of ancestral effort." The "ancestral merits and
good spirit remain in the family." On the problem of rich and poor he quoted the proverb, "The
very rich cannot remain very rich for more than three generations; a poor family cannot long
remain poor." He said that he would be interested to know what I found to be "the causes of
our villagers becoming good or bad." "For ourselves," he said, quoting another proverb, "'At
the foot of the lighthouse it is dark.'"

THE MOST EXACTING CROP IN THE WORLD

CHAPTER VIII

THE HARVEST FROM THE MUD

Toyo-ashiwara-no-chiiho-aki-mizuho-no-Kuni (Land of plenteous ears of rice in the plain of
luxuriant reeds).

The vast difference between Far Eastern and Western agriculture is marked by the fact that,
except by using such a phrase as shallow pond--and this is inadequate, because a pond has a
sloping bottom and a rice field necessarily a level one--it is difficult to describe a rice
field in terms intelligible to a Western farmer. The Japanese have a special word for a rice
field, ta, water field, written [Kanji: ta]. It will be noticed that the ideograph looks like
a water field in four compartments. Another word, hata or hatake,[59] written [Kanji: hata],
tells the story of the dry or upland field. It is the ideograph for water field in association
with the ideograph for fire, and, as we shall see later on, when we make acquaintance with
"fire farming," an upland field is a tract the vegetation of which was originally burnt off.

Many of us have seen rice growing in Italy or in the United States. But in Japan[60] the paddies
are very-much smaller than anything to be seen in the Po Valley and in Texas. Owing to the
plentiful water supply of a mountainous land, cultivation proceeds with some degree of regularity
and with a certain independence of the rainy season; and there has been applied to traditional
rice farming not a few scientific improvements.

There is a kind of rice with a low yield called upland rice which, like corn, is grown in fields.
But the first requisite of general rice culture is water. The ordinary rice crop can be produced
only on a piece of ground on which a certain depth of water is maintained.

In order to maintain this depth of water, three things must be done. The plot of ground must
be made level, low banks of earth must be built round it in order to keep in the water, and
a system of irrigation must be arranged to make good the loss of water by evaporation, by leakage
and by the continual passing on of some of the water to other plots belonging to the same owner
or to other farmers. The common name of a rice plot is paddy, and the rice with its husk on,
that is, as it is knocked from the ear by threshing, is called paddy rice. The rice exported
from Japan is some of it husked and some of it polished.

Some 90 per cent. of the rice grown in Japan is ordinary rice. The remaining 10 per cent. is
about 2 per cent. upland and 8 per cent, glutinous[61]--the sort used for making the favourite
mochi (rice flour dumplings, which few foreigners are able to digest). It would be possible
to collect in Japan specimens of rice under 4,000 different names, but, like our potato names,
many of these represent duplicate varieties. Rice, again reminding us of potatoes, is grown
in early, middle and late season sorts.[62]

Just one-half of the cultivated area of Japan is devoted to paddy, but there is to be added
to this area under rice more than a quarter million acres producing the upland rice, the yield
of which is lower than that of paddy rice. The paddy and upland rice areas together make up
more than a half of the cultivated land. The paddies which are not in situations favourable
to the production of second crops of rice (they are grown in one prefecture only) are used,
if the water can be drawn off, for growing barley or wheat or green manure as a second crop[63].

It is not only the Eastern predilection for rice and the wet condition of the country, but
the heavy cropping power of the plant[64]--500 go per tan above barley and wheat yields--that
makes the Japanese farmer labour so hard to grow it[65]. Intensively cultivated though Japan
is, the percentage of cultivated land to the total area of the country is, however, little
more than half that in Great Britain[66]. This is because Japan is largely mountains and hills.
Level land for rice paddies can be economically obtained in many parts of such a country by
working it in small patches only. There is no minimum size for a Japanese paddy. I have seen
paddies of the area of a counterpane and even of the size of a couple of dinner napkins.

The problem is not only to make the paddy in a spot where it can be supplied with water, but
to make it in such a way that it will hold all the water it needs. It must be level, or some
of the rice plants will have only their feet wet while others will be up to their necks. The
ordinary procedure in making a paddy is to remove the top soil, beat down the subsoil beneath,
and then restore the top soil--there may be from 5 to 10 in. of it. But the best efforts of
the paddy-field builder may be brought to naught by springs or by a gravelly bottom. Then the
farmer must make the best terms he can with fortune.

Paddies, as may be imagined from their physical limitations, are of every conceivable shape.
There is assuredly no way of altering the shape of the paddies which are dexterously fitted
into the hillsides. But large numbers of paddies are on fairly level ground.[67] There is no
real need for these being of all sizes and patterns. They are what they are because of the
degree to which their construction was conditioned by water-supply problems, the financial
resources of those who dug them or the position of neighbours' land. And no doubt in the course
of centuries there has been a great deal of swapping, buying and inheriting. So the average
farmer's paddies are not only of all shapes and sizes but here, there and everywhere.

Therefore there arose wise men to point out that for a farmer to work a number of oddly shaped
bits of land scattered all about the village was uneconomical and out of date. (Like the old
English strip system which still survives in the Isle of Axholme.) So what was called an adjustment
of paddy fields was carried out in many places. The farmers were persuaded to throw their varied
assortment of fields into hotchpot and then to have the mass cut up into oblong fields of equal
or relative sizes. These were then shared out according to what each man had contributed. In
some cases a little compensation had to be given, for there were differences in the qualities
as well as the areas of the holdings. But reasonable justice was eventually done all round,
and ever afterwards a farmer, now that his holding was in adjoining tracts, might spend his
time working in his paddies instead of in walking to and from them. Because many unnecessary
paths and divisions between paddies were done away with there was brought about a saving of
labour and increased efficiency of cultivation. There was also a little more land to cultivate
and the paddies were big enough for an ox or a pony to be employed in them, and the water supply
was better and sufficiently under control for floods to be averted.[68] In brief, costs were
lower and crops were better.[69]

Thus all over Japan nowadays one sees considerable tracts of adjusted paddy fields. They are
a joy to the rural sociologist. In its way there has been nothing like it agriculturally in
our time. For each of these little farmers valued his odds and ends of paddy above their agricultural
worth. He or his forbears had made them or bought them or married into them. And he believed
that his own paddies were in a condition of fertility surpassing not a few, and he doubted
greatly whether after adjustment he would find himself in possession of as valuable land as
his own. Sometimes also he believed that his paddies were especially fortunate geomantically.[70]
Yet, convinced by the arguments for adjustment, the peasant agreed to the proposed rearrangement,
let his old tracts go and accepted in exchange neat oblongs out of the common stock. Sometimes
so great was the change brought about in a village by adjustment that more than the paddies
were dealt with. Cottages were taken to new sites and the bones in many little grave plots
were removed. In a village in which there had been an exhumation of the bones of 2,700 persons
and a transference of tombstones, I was told that the assembling together of the remains of
the departed in one place "had had a unifying effect on the community." In this village within
a period of twelve years 96 per cent. of the paddies had been adjusted.[71]

An advantage of adjustment which has not yet been mentioned is that adjusted paddies can usually
be dried off at harvest and can therefore be put under a second crop, usually of grain. More
than a third of the paddy-field area of the country can be dried off, and therefore produces
a second crop of barley or wheat. The farmer has two advantages if, owing to adjustment or
natural advantages, he is able to dry off his land. Of the first or rice crop, if he is a tenant
farmer, he has had to pay his landlord perhaps 60 per cent, in rent, less straw;[72] but the
second crop is his own. The further advantage is that second-crop land can be cultivated dry
shod. One-crop paddy is under water all the year round, and must be cultivated with wet feet
and legs.

It is because more than half the paddies are always under water that rice cultivation is so
laborious. Think of the Western farm labourer being asked to plough and the allotment holder
to dig almost knee-deep in mud. Although much paddy is ploughed with the aid of an ox, a cow
or a pony,[73] most rice is the product of mattock or spade labour. There is no question about
the severity of the labour of paddy cultivation. For a good crop it is necessary that the soil
shall be stirred deeply.

Following the turning over of the stubble under water, comes the clod smashing and harrowing
by quadrupedal or bipedal labour. It is not only a matter of staggering about and doing heavy
work in sludge. The sludge is not clean dirt and water but dirty dirt and water, for it has
been heavily dosed with manure, and the farmer is not fastidious as to the source from which
he obtains it.[74] And the sludge ordinarily contains leeches. Therefore the cultivator must
work uncomfortably in sodden clinging cotton feet and leg coverings. Long custom and necessity
have no doubt developed a certain indifference to the physical discomfort of rice cultivation.
The best rice will grow only in mud and, except on the large uniform paddies of the adjusted
areas, there is small opportunity for using mechanical methods.

One day when I went into the country it happened to be raining hard, but the men and women
toiled in the paddies. They were breaking up the flooded clods with a tool resembling the "pulling
fork" used in the West for getting manure from a dung cart. On other farms the task of working
the quagmire was being done by two persons with the aid of a disconsolate pony harnessed to
a rude harrow. The men and women in the paddies kept off the rain by means of the usual wide
straw hats and loose straw mantles, admirable in their way in their combination of lightness
and rainproofness. Often, besides the farmer's wife, a young widow or a young unmarried woman
may be seen at work, but, as was once explained to me, "The old Miss is not frequent in Japan."[75]

Planting time arrives in the middle of June or thereabouts, when the paddy has been brought
by successive harrowings into a fine tilth or rather sludge. It is illustrative of the exacting
ways of rice that not only has it to have a growing place specially fashioned for it, it cannot
be sown as cereals are sown. It must be sown in beds and then be transplanted. The seed beds
have been sown in the latter part of April or the early part of May, according to the variety
of rice and the locality.[76] The seeds have usually been selected by immersion in salt water
and have been afterwards soaked in order to advance germination. There is a little soaking
pond on every farm. By the use of this pond the period in which the seeds are exposed to the
depredations of insects, etc., is diminished. The seed bed itself is about the width of an
onion bed, in order that weeds and insect pests may be easily reached. The seed bed is, of
course, under water. The seed is dropped into the water and sinks into the mud. Within about
thirty or forty days the seedlings are ready for transplanting. They have been the object of
unremitting care. Weeds have been plucked out and insects have been caught by nets or trapped.
There is a contrivance which, by means of a wheel at either end, straddles the seed bed, and
is drawn slowly from one end to the other. It catches the insects as they hop or fly up.

In many localities specially fine varieties are grown for seed on the land of the Shinto shrines.
In other localities special sorts are raised in ordinary paddies but surrounded by the rope
and white paper streamers which represent a consecrated place. In not a few villages there
are communal seed beds so that many farmers may grow the same variety, and there may be a considerable
bulk for co-operative sale.

At transplanting time every member of the family capable of helping renders assistance. Friends
also give their aid if it is not planting time for them too. The work is so engrossing that
young children who are not at school are often left to their own devices. Sometimes they play
by the ditch round the paddies and are drowned. Five such cases of drowning are reported from
three prefectures on the day I write this. The suggestion is made that in the rice districts
there should be common nurseries for farmers' children at planting time.

The rate at which the planters, working in a row across the paddy, set out the seedlings in
the mud below the water, is remarkable.[77] The first weeding or raking takes place about a
fortnight after planting. After that there are three more weedings, the last being about the
end of August. All kinds of hoes are used in the sludge. They are usually provided with a wooden
or tin float. But most of the weeding is done simply by thrusting the hand into the mud, pulling
out the weed and thrusting it back into the sludge to rot. The back-breaking character of this
work may be imagined. As much of it is done in the hottest time of the year the workers protect
themselves by wide-brimmed hats of the willow-plate pattern and by flapping straw cloaks or
by bundles of straw fastened on their backs.

A sharp look-out must be kept for insects of various sorts. In more than one place I saw the
boys and girls of elementary schools wading in the paddies and stroking the young rice with
switches in order to make noxious insects rise. The creatures were captured by the young enthusiasts
with nets. The children were given special times off from school work in which to hunt the
rice pests and were encouraged to bring specimens to school.

There is no greater delight to the eye than the paddies in their early green, rippled and gently
laid over by the wind. (One should say greens, for there is every tint from the rather woe-begone
yellowish green of the newly planted out rice to the happy luxuriant dark green of the paddies
that have long been enjoying the best of quarters.) As harvest time approaches,[78] the paddies,
because they are not all planted with the same variety of rice, are in patches of different
shades. Some are straw colour, some are reddish brown or almost black. A poet speaks of the
"hanging ears of rice." Rice always seems to hang its head more than other crops. It is weaker
in the straw than barley, but rice frequently droops not only because of its natural habit,
but because it has been over-manured or wrongly manured or because of wind or wet.

Beyond wind,[79] insects and drought, floods are the enemies of rice. When the plants are young,
three or four days' flooding do not matter much, but in August, when the ears are shooting,
it is a different matter. The sun pours down and soon rots the rice lying in the warm water.
Sometimes the farmer, by almost withdrawing the water from his paddies, raises the temperature
of the soil with benefit to the crop.

The farmer is fortunate who is able to get the water completely out of his paddies by the time
harvest arrives, but, as we have seen, two-thirds of the paddies must be harvested in sludge.
Many crops are muddied before they can be cut. Sometimes on the eve of harvest the farmer wades
in and tries, by arranging the fallen stems across one another, to keep some of the ears out
of the water. But he is not very successful. Rice may lie in the wet a week or even the best
end of a fortnight without serious damage. But all that this means is that within the period
specified it may not sprout. It must be damaged to some extent even by a few days' immersion.
The reason why it is not damaged more than it is is no doubt, first, because rice is a plant
which has been brought up to take its chances with water, and in the second place because the
thing which is known to the housewife as rice is not really the grain at all but the interior
of the grain.

Western farmers are hard put to it when their grain crops are beaten down by wind and rain;
Japanese agriculturists, because they gather their harvest with a short sickle, do not find
a laid crop difficult to cut. But these harvesters are very muddy indeed. When the rice is
cut and the sheaves are laid along the low mud wall of the paddy they are still partly in the
sludge. We know how miserable a wet harvest is at home, but think of the slushy harvest with
which most Japanese farmers struggle every year of their lives. The rice grower, although year
in and year out he has the advantage of a great deal of sunshine, seldom gets his crop in without
some rain. How does he manage to dry his October and November rice? By means of a temporary
fence or rack which he rigs up in his paddy field or along a path or by the roadside. On this
structure the sheaves are painstakingly suspended ears down. Sometimes he utilises poles suspended
between trees. These trees, grown on the low banks of the paddies, have their trunks trimmed
so that they resemble parasols.

When the sheaves are removed in order to be threshed on the upland part of the holding, they
are carried away at either end of a pole on a man's shoulder or are piled up on the back of
an ox, cow or pony. The height of the pile under which some animals stagger up from the paddies
gives one a vivid conception of "the last straw."

Threshing is usually done by a man, woman, girl or youth taking as many stems as can be easily
grasped in both hands and drawing the ears, first one way and then another, through a horizontal
row of steel teeth. The flail is not used for threshing rice but is employed for barley. Another
common way of knocking out grain is by beating the straw over a table or a barrel. There are
all sorts of cheap hand-worked threshing machines. After the threshing of the rice comes the
winnowing, which may be done by the aid of a machine but is more likely to be effected in the
immemorial way, by one person pouring the roughly threshed ears from a basket or skep while
another worker vigorously fans the grain. The result is what is known as paddy rice. The process
which follows winnowing is husking. This is done in the simplest possible form of hand mill.
Before husking the rice grain is in appearance not unlike barley and it is no easy matter to
get its husk off. The husking mill is often made of hardened clay with many wooden teeth on
the rubbing surface. After husking there is another winnowing. Then the grains are run through
a special apparatus of recent introduction called mangoku doshi, so that faulty ones may be
picked out. The result is unpolished rice.

It looks grey and unattractive, and unfortunately the unprepossessing but valuable outer coat
is polished away. This is done in a mortar hollowed out of a section of a tree trunk or out
of a large stone. One may see a young man or a young woman pounding the rice in the mortar
with a heavy wooden beetle or mallet. Often the beetle is fastened to a beam and worked by
foot. Or the polishing apparatus may be driven by water, oil or steam power. Constantly in
the country there are seen little sheds in each of which a small polishing mill driven by a
water wheel is working away by itself. After the polishing, the mangoku doshi is used again
to free the rice from the bran. This polished rice is still further polished by the dealer,
who has more perfect mills than the farmer.

The farmer pays his rent not in the polished but in the husked rice. At the house of a former
daimyo I saw an instrument which the feudal lord's bailiff was accustomed to thrust into the
rice the tenants tendered. If when the instrument was withdrawn more than three husks were
found adhering, the rice was returned to be recleaned. There are names for all the different
kinds of rice. For instance, paddy rice is momi; husked rice is gemmai; half-polished rice
is hantsukimai; polished rice is hakumai; cooked rice is gohan.

A century ago the farmer ate his rice at the gemmai stage, that is in its natural state, and
there was no beri-beri. The "black saké" made from this gemmai rice is still used in Shinto
ceremonies. In order to produce clear saké the rice was polished. Then well-to-do people out
of daintiness had their table rice polished. Now polished rice is the common food. Half-polished
rice may be prepared with two or three hundred blows of the mallet; fully polished or white
rice may receive six, seven or eight hundred, or even it may be a thousand blows.

FOOTNOTES:

[47] See Appendix VII.

[48] See Appendix VIII.

[49] Family in the French sense.

[50] See Appendix IX.

[51] See Appendix X.

[52] See Appendix XI.

[53] See Appendix XII.

[54] See Appendix XIII.

[55] It was recently stated that the consent of the authorities was awaited for collections
to the amount of 20 million yen, of which 13-1/2 million were for the two Hongwanjis.

[56] For yields of new paddy, see Appendix XIV.

[57] See Appendix XII.

[58] It would be from 80 to 100 yen now.

[59] Hata (upland field) is not to be confounded with hara (prairie, wilderness, moor, often
erroneously translated, plain).

[60] Rice is grown in every prefecture. The largest total yields are in Niigata, Hyogo, Fukuoka,
Aichi, Yamagata, Ibariki and Chiba.

[61] See Appendix XV.

[62] The average yield of the three kinds at Government experimental farms--the middle variety
yields best and next comes the late variety--is about 2-1/2 koku per tan or roughly (a koku
being about 5 bushels and a tan about a quarter of an acre) about 45 bushels per acre. The
average yield of ordinary rice in Japan in an ordinary year is 40-3/4 bushels. In the bumper
year of 1920 the average yield was 41-1/3 bushels. In the year 1916 (to which most of the figures
in this book, apart from the Appendix and footnotes, in which the latest available figures
are given, refer) there was produced 58-1/4 million koku of all kinds of rice, the value of
which was 826-1/2 million yen. The normal yield (average of 7 years, excluding the years of
highest and lowest production) is 54-1/2 million koku. See Appendix XV.

[63] For wheat and barley crops, see Appendix XVI.

[64] A few rice plants may be seen growing at Kew.

[65] The cost of the rice crop and the income it yields are discussed in Appendix XVII.

[66] See Appendix XVIII.

[67] In Japanese rural statistics the word plain may be said to mean a tract of land which
is neither cultivated nor timbered nor used for the purposes of habitation. Sometimes it is
called prairie, but this is not always correct as it is very often a barren waste, a tract
of volcanic ash, or an area producing bamboo grass. Some of this land, however, could be cultivated
after proper irrigation, etc. In this note, plains is employed in the ordinary acceptation
of the word. Of such plains there are several. The plain in which Tokyo is situated is 82,000
acres in extent. The traveller from Kobe to Tokyo passes through the Kinai plain in which Kobe,
Kyoto and Osaka stand. It is said to feed 2-1/2 million people. Four other plains are reputed
to feed 7-1/2 million.

[68] Rivers supply about 65 per cent. of the paddy water and reservoirs about 21 per cent.
The remainder has to be got from other sources.

[69] An acreage of a tan is aimed at, but it is frequently larger; it may even be 4 tan (an
acre). The cost ranges from about 8 yen to 50 yen per tan. The average increase in yield alter
adjustment is about 15 per cent., to which must be added the yield of the new land obtained,
say 3 per cent. of the area adjusted. The consent of half the owners is required for adjustment.

[70] Once when a friend in Tokyo had trouble with her servants a maid informed her that the
house was unlucky because a certain necessary apartment faced the wrong point of the compass.

[71] In the whole of Japan by 1919 two million and a half acres had been adjusted or were in
course of adjustment.

[72] The rent is usually 57 per cent. of the rice harvest in the paddies and 44 per cent. (in
cash or kind) of the crops on the non-paddy land. Any crop raised in the paddies between the
harvesting of one rice crop and the planting out of the next belongs to the farmer. (All taxes
and rates are paid by the landlord, and amount to from 30 to 33 per cent. of the rent.) The
area under paddy and the area of upland under cultivation are almost equal.

[73] See Appendix XIX.

[74] See Appendix XX.

[75] In 1920 there were 38,922,437 males and 38,083,073 females.

[76] See Appendix XXI.

[77] See Appendix XXII.

[78] The harvest extends from mid-September in the north of Japan to the end of October or
beginning of November in the south. The harvest is taken early in the north for fear of frost.

[79] The "210th day" (counted from the beginning of spring), when flowering commences, is so
critical a period that the weather conditions during the twenty-four hours in every prefecture
are reported to the Emperor.

CHAPTER IX

THE RICE BOWL, THE GODS AND THE NATION

I thank whatever gods there be....--HENLEY

I

How many people who have not been in the East or in the rice trade realise that rice, in the
course of the polishing it receives from the farmer and the dealer, loses nearly half its bulk?
A necessary part of the grain is lost. No wonder that sensible people in Japan and the West
demand the grey unpolished rice. In Japan some enterprising person has started selling bottled
stuff made from the part of the rice grain that is rubbed off in the polishing process. It
does not look appetising. An easier thing would be to leave some of the coating on the rice.
One thinks of what Smollett said of white bread:

"They prefer it to wholesome bread because it is whiter. Thus they sacrifice their health to
a most absurd gratification of a misjudging eye, and the tradesman is obliged to poison them
in order to live."

Although, for economy's sake, a considerable amount of barley is eaten with or instead of rice,
it may be said in a general way that the Japanese people, like so many millions of other Asiatics,
have rice for breakfast, rice for lunch and rice for dinner. If they have anything to eat between
meals it is as like as not to be rice cakes--- to the foreigner's taste a loathly, half-cooked
compost of rice flour or pounded rice and water, a sort of tepid underdone muffin. We in the
West have bread at every meal as the Japanese have rice, but we eat our bread not only as plain
bread but as toast and bread-and-butter; we also ring the changes on brown, white and oat bread.

Among the covered lacquer dishes on the little table set before each kneeling breakfaster,
luncher or diner in Japan there is one which is empty. This is the rice bowl. When the meal
begins--or in the case of an elaborate dinner at the rice course--the maid brings in a large
covered wooden copper-bound or brass-bound tub or round lacquered box of hot rice. This rice
she serves with a big wooden spoon, the only spoon ever seen at a Japanese meal. A man may
have three helpings or four in a bowl about as big as a large breakfast cup. The etiquette
is that, though other dishes may be pecked at, the rice in one's bowl must be finished. The
usage on this point may have originated in the feeling that it was almost impious to waste
the staple food of the country. It is not difficult to pick up the last rice grains with the
wooden hashi (chopsticks), for the rice is skilfully boiled. (Soft rice is served to invalids
only.) But when the bowl is almost empty the custom is to pour into it weak tea or hot water,
and then to drink this, so getting rid of the odd grains. It is through omitting to drink in
this way that foreigners get indigestion when at a Japanese meal they eat a lot of rice.

At first it is not easy for the foreigner to believe that people can come with appetite to
several bowls of plain rice three times a day.[80] But good rice does seem to have something
of the property of oatmeal, the property of a continual tastiness. Further, the rice eater
picks up now and then from a small saucer a piece of pickle which may have either a salty or
a sweet fermented taste. The nutrition gained at a Japanese meal is largely in soups in which
the bean preparations, tofu and miso, and occasionally eggs, are used. And there is no country
in the world where more fish is eaten than in Japan. The coast waters and rivers team with
fish, and fish--fresh, dried and salted, shell-fish and fish unrecognisable as fish after all
sorts of ingenious treatment--is consumed by almost everybody.

The Japanese are in no doubt that the foreign rice which is brought into the country to supplement
the home supply is inferior to their own.[81] Inferior means that they prefer the flavour of
their own rice, just as most Scots prefer oatmeal made from oats grown in Scotland.

II

In the year of the Coronation--it took place three years after the Emperor's accession--two
prefectures had the honour of being chosen to produce the rice to be placed before gods, Emperor
and dignitaries at Kyoto. The work was not undertaken without ceremony. I was a witness of
the rites performed at the planting of the rice in one of the prefectures. Plots had been prepared
with enormous care. Along the top of the special fencing were the Shinto straw bands and paper
streamers. A small shrine had been built to overlook the plots. Even the instruments of the
little meteorological station near, by which the management of the crop would be guided, were
surrounded by straw bands and streamers--religion protecting science. The mattocks and other
implements which had been used in the preparation of the paddy or were to be used in getting
in the crops and in cultivating, harvesting, threshing and cleaning it were all new. Even the
herring which had manured the plot had been "specially selected and blessed." Further, there
was a special bath-house where the young men and women who were to plant the rice had washed
ceremonially at an early hour.

We had reached the spot through a crowd of twenty or thirty thousand people who were gathering
to witness the ceremony. A covered platform had been built in front of the rice field shrine,
and on either side were large roofed-in spaces for some scores of Shinto priests and the favoured
spectators. The ceremony lasted two hours. It carried us magically away from a Japan of frock
coats to Japan of a thousand, it may be two thousand years ago. Between the wail of ancient
wood and wind instruments and the cinema operators who missed nothing external and some bored
top-hatted spectators who furtively puffed a cigarette before the ceremony came to an end,[82]
what a gulf! Platter after platter of food, sometimes rice, sometimes vegetables, sometimes
fruit, sometimes a big fish, was passed by one priest to another in the sunlight until all
the offerings were reverently placed by a special dignitary on one of those unpainted, unvarnished,
undecorated but exquisitely proportioned altars which are an artistic glory of Shintoism. The
shrine was wholly open on the side of the rice field, and the high priest was in full view
as he stood before the altar with bowed head and folded hands, his robe caught by the breeze,
and delivered in a loud voice his zealous invocation. His words were stressed not only by an
acolyte who twanged the strings of a venerable harp, but by the song of a lark which rose with
the first strains of the harpist. The purpose of the ceremony was to call down the gods and
to gain their blessing for the crop and the new reign. At the moment of highest solemnity the
thousands assembled bowed their heads: the gods were deigning to descend and accept the offering.
More ancient music, more ceremonial, and the gods having been called upon to return to high
heaven, the laden platters were gravely removed, and the rice planting in the adjoining field
began. To the sound of drum the young men and women in special costumes strode through the
wicket into the mud of the paddies, and, under the supervision of the director of the prefectural
agricultural experiment station in a silk hat, planted out the tufts of rice seedlings in scrupulously
measured rows.

I asked a distinguished Japanese who was standing near me--he is a Christian--how many of the
educated people in the assembly believed that the gods had descended. His answer was, "I may
not believe that the gods of a truth descended, but I find something beautiful in calling on
the gods with a harp of Old Japan, and I do believe that our humble and natural offering to-day
may be acceptable to whatever gods there may be and that it is a worthy exercise for us to
undertake and may also be conducive to a good harvest." My friend attempted the following rough
rendering of a song which had been sung by the rice planters before the shrine:

This day the beginning of sowing at an auspicious time-- Long life to the rice! May it be a
token of the years of the Reign, The seed of peace for the world-- May it start from this consecrated
field! One in heart we see to it that our seedlings are well matched. Mikawa's[83] millennium
and the millennium of rice. Let us pray for an abundant shooting. Now let us plant the seedlings
straight; Pleasing to the gods are the ways that are not crooked.

After this ceremony, in which the staple crop of the country and the labour of the farmer in
his paddy field had been honoured by the State and dignified by ancestral blessings, there
was luncheon in one of those deftly contrived reed-covered structures, of the building of which
the Japanese have the knack, and the Governor asked some of us to say a few words. Then on
a raised platform in the open there was enacted a comic interlude such as might have been seen
in England in the Middle Ages. In the evening I was bidden to a dinner of the officials responsible
for the day's doings. The Governor made a kindly reference to my labours and the local M.P.
presented me with a kimono length of the cotton material which had been woven for the planters
of the sacred rice.

III[84]

The production of rice has increased more quickly than the growth of the population. If we
consider, along with the advance in population, the crops of the years 1882 and 1913, which
were held to be average, and, in order to be as up-to-date as possible, the normal annual yield[85]
of the five-years period 1912-18, we find that, as between 1882 and 1913, the population increased
45 per cent. and rice production increased 63 per cent., while as between 1882 and the normal
annual yield period of 1912-18, the population increased 55 per cent, and the crop 75 per cent.[86]

This is a noteworthy fact. But equally noteworthy is the fact that in the 1882-1913 period,
in which the production of rice increased 63 per cent. and the population only 45 per cent.,
the price of rice did not fall. On the contrary it rose. This was due largely[87] to the fact
that people had begun to eat rice who had not before been able to afford it. Many people who
grow rice eat, as has been noted, barley or barley mixed with a little rice. From the 'eighties
onwards more and more rice was eaten.[88]

The reason was that, what with the cash obtained from cocoons through the enormous development
of sericulture,[89] what with the money received by the girls who had gone to the factories,
what with the growth of big cities causing an increased demand for vegetables, eggs and especially
fruit at good prices, what with the use of better seed and more artificial manure, what with
agricultural co-operation, paddy-field adjustment and the taking-in of new land, the farmer,
in spite of increased taxation,[90] was doing better, or at any rate was minded to live better.
In the thirty-years period 1882-1913, his crop increased 63 per cent. although his area under
cultivation increased by only 17 per cent. In the following pages we shall hear more of the
methods by which the farmer's receipts have been increased. We shall hear also, alas! of the
ways in which his expenditure has increased. He is indeed in a trying situation. Everything
depends on his character and education and on the influences, social and political, moral and
religious, under which he lives. That is why this book, in devoting itself to an examination
of the foundations of an agricultural country, is concerned with rural sociology rather than
with the technique of crops and cropping.

The outstanding problem of the rice grower is fluctuations in price.[91] It is also the problem
of the landlord, for rents are fixed not at so much money but at so many koku of rice. This
means that on rent day the farmer must pay the same amount of rice whether his crop has been
good or bad. It also means that when the price of rice rises the amount of rent is automatically
raised. If rent were paid, not in so many koku of rice but in money at a fixed amount, the
landlord would know where he was and the tenant would be in an easier position, for when the
rice crop failed the price would be high and he would be able to meet his rent by selling a
smaller amount of rice. The counsel of the prudent to the rice producer is to build storehouses
and not to sell the whole of his crop immediately after harvest, but to extend the sale over
the whole year, marketing each month about the same amount if possible. The Government Granary
plan came into force in 1921, some 3 million koku of unpolished rice being bought in five grades
at from 27 yen to 33 yen. In the year before the War rice was selling at 20 yen per koku (5
bushels). The previous year (1912) it had been 21 yen--had risen at times to 23 yen--an unheard-of
price. Between 1894 and 1912 it had climbed merely from about 7 yen to a maximum of 16 yen.[92]
In the year in which the War broke out, it dropped as low as 12 yen, and in 1915 it was only
11 yen. By 1916 it had not risen beyond 14 yen.

The fall in prices was due to exceptional harvests in 1914 and 1915 (that is, 57,006,541 koku
and 55,924,590 koku as compared with the 50,255,000 koku of the year before the War, or the
51,312,000 which may be taken as the average of the seven-years period 1907-13). Such exceptional
harvests as those of 1914 and 1915 showed a surplus of from 4½ to 6 million koku over and above
the needs of the country, which are roughly estimated at 1 koku per head including infants
and the old and feeble. In 1916 it was established, when account was taken of stored rice,
that the actual surplus was something like 6 or 7 million koku. Therefore a fall in price took
place. The extent to which rice is imported and exported is shown in Appendix XXIV. This Chapter
would become much more technical than is necessary if I entered into the question of the correctness
of rice statistics. Roughly, the statistics show a production 15 per cent. less than the actual
crops. Formerly the under-estimation was 20 per cent. The practice has its origin in the old
taxation system.

The notes for the account of rural life in Japan which will be found in this book were chiefly
made in the second and third years of the War. Since that time there has been an enormous rise
in the price of everything. For a time the farmers prospered as they had prospered in the high
rice-price years, 1912-13.[93] The high prices of all grain as well as the fabulous price of
raw silk (due to increased export to America and to increased home consumption) were a great
advantage.

Then came the rice riots of the city workers, the general slump and finally the commercial
and industrial crash. Raw silk fell nearly to one-third of its top price, and farmers had to
sell cocoons under the cost of production. Everywhere countrymen and countrywomen employed
in the factories were discharged in droves. A large proportion of these unfortunates returned
to their villages to dispel some rural dreams of urban Eldorado.

But this matter of the going up and coming down of prices has but a passing interest for the
reader. The only economic fact of which he need lay hold is that in recent years the farmers
have been led into the way of spending more money--in taxation as well as in general expenses
of living--and that, when account is taken of every advantage they have gained from better
methods of production, they have pressing on them the limitations imposed by the size of their
farms and their farming practice. Whatever the prices obtained for the: products of the soil,
climatic facts,[94] the character and social condition of the people, their attitude towards
life and authority and the attitude of authority towards them remain very much the same. And
thus a narrative of things seen and heard chiefly during the first years of the War is not
at all out of date even if it were not supplemented as it is by a plentiful supply of notes
containing the latest statistical data.

There is one curious exception only. The reader of these pages will constantly come on references
to the poverty of the tenant farmers. They are, of course, practically labourers, for they
cultivate two or three acres only, and at the end of the year, as has been shown, have merely
a trifle in hand and sometimes not that. Influenced by the labour movement, which developed
in the industrial centres during and after the War,[95] this depressed class has of late shown
spirit. It has begun to assert its claims against landowners. At the end of 1920 there were
as many as ninety associations of tenant farmers, and sixty of these had been started for the
specific purpose of representing tenants' interests against landowners. Strikes of tenants
began and continue. The end of this movement of a proverbially conservative class is not at
all certain.[96]

The outstanding facts which are to be borne in mind about agricultural Japan are that the population
is as thick on the ground as the population of the British Isles (thicker in reality, for so
much of Japan is mountain and waste)--ten times thicker than the population of the United States[97]--that
Japan is primarily an agricultural country, while Great Britain is largely a manufacturing
and trading country, and that only 15½ per cent. of Japan proper (including Hokkaido) is under
cultivation against 27 per cent. in Great Britain.[98] The average area cultivated per farming
family in Japan, counting paddy and upland together, is less than 3 acres. As the total population
of Japan is now (1921) 56 millions (55,960,150 in 1920, plus the annual increase of 600,000),
every acre has to feed close on four persons. ("Even in Hokkaido," Dr. Sato notes, "the average
area per family is only 7½ acres.") Happily the number of families cultivating less than 1¼
acres is decreasing and the number cultivating from 1¼ up to 5 acres is increasing.[99] In
other words, the favourite size of farm is one which finds work for all the members of the
farmer's family. As on small holdings all over the world, it is found that profits are difficult
to make when help has to be paid for. The facts that in the last four years for which figures
are available the number of farming families keeping silk-worms has risen by half a million
and that every year the area of land under cultivation increases show that new ways of increasing
income are eagerly seized on.

FOOTNOTES:

[80] For estimate of daily consumption of rice by Japanese, see Appendix XXIII.

[81] For statistics of imported and exported rice, see Appendix XXIV.

[82] Japanese. I was the only foreigner present.

[83] The old name for a considerable part of Aichi

[84] This section of the chapter was written in 1921.

[85] For the way in which "normal yield" is arrived at, see p. 70.

[86] See Appendix XXV.

[87] War with China, 1894; with Russia, 1904.

[88] For farmers' diet, see Appendix XXVI.

[89] Farmers in sericultural districts live better than the ordinary rice farmers.

[90] See Appendix XXVII.

[91] See Appendix XXVIII.

[92] For prices, see Appendix XVII.

[93] The rise in prices towards the close of the War, with the rise in the cost of living throughout
the world, has been discussed on page xxv.

[94] See Appendix XXIX.

[95] See Chapter XX.

[96] Recent figures show 400 tenants' associations, of which a third are militant.

[97] See Appendix XXX and page 97.

[98] See Chapter XX.

[99] See Appendix XXXI.

BACK TO FIRST PRINCIPLES: THE APOSTLE AND THE ARTIST

CHAPTER X

A TROUBLER OF ISRAEL

The signification of this gift of life, that we should leave a better world for our successors,
is being understood.--MEREDITH

To some people in Japan the countryman Kanzō Uchimura is "the Japanese Carlyle." To others
he is a religious enthusiast and the Japanese equivalent of a troubler of Israel. He appeared
to me in the guise of a student of rural sociology.

Uchimura is the man who as a school teacher "refused to bow before the Emperor's portrait."[100]
He endured, as was to be expected, social ostracism and straitened means. But when his voice
came to be heard in journalism it was recognised as the voice of a man of principle by people
who heard it far from gladly. There is a seamy side to some Japanese journalism[101] and Uchimura
soon resigned his editorial chair. He abandoned a second editorship because he was determined
to brave the displeasure of his countrymen by opposing the war with Russia. To-day he deplores
many things in the relations of Japan and China.

Uchimura has written more than two dozen books, mostly on religion. How I became a Christian
has been translated into English, German, Danish, Russian and Chinese, and is to that extent
a landmark in the literary history of Japan. His Christianity is an Early Christianity which
places him in antagonism, not only to his own countrymen who are Shintoists, Buddhists or Confucians,
or vaguely Nationalists, but to such foreign missionaries as are sectarians and literalists.
His earliest training was in agricultural science, and the welfare of the Japanese countryside
is near his heart. If he be a Carlyle, as his fibre and resolution, downright way of writing
and speaking, hortatory gift, humour, plainness of life and dislike of officials, no less than
his cast of countenance, his soft hat and long gaberdine-like coat have suggested, he is a
Carlyle who is content to stay both in body and mind at Ecclefechan. He is not, however, like
Carlyle, whom he calls "master," a peasant, but a samurai.

"As you penetrate into the lives of the farmers and discover the influences brought to bear
on them," Uchimura said to me in his decisive way, "there will be laid bare to you the foundations
of Japan. You know our proverb, of course, No wa kuni no taihon nari ('Agriculture is the basis
of a nation')? Have you been to Nikko?" This seemed a little inconsequent, but I told him I
had not yet been to Nikko. ("Until you have seen Nikko," runs the adage, "do not say 'splendid'.")
"How many of the tourists who are delighted with Nikko," he went on, "have heard how the richest
farms near that town were devastated? A century ago a minister of the Shogun, who realised
that fertility depended on trees, saw to the whole range of Nikko hills being afforested. It
was a tract twenty miles by twenty miles in extent. But the 'civilised' authorities of our
own days sold all the timber to a copper company for 8,000 yen. The company destroyed the fertility
of the district not only by cutting down the forest but by poisoning the water with which the
farmers irrigated their crops. A member of Parliament gave himself with such devotion to the
cause of the ruined farmers that when he died the ashes of his cremated body were divided and
preserved in four shrines erected to his memory."

It was a sad thing, said Uchimura, that the farmers of Japan, because of the decreased fertility
of the land due to the denudation of the hills of trees, and because of their increased expenses,
should be laying out "a quarter of their incomes on artificial manures." "The enemies which
Japan has most to fear to-day," Uchimura declared, "are impaired fertility and floods."

It may be well, perhaps, to explain for a few readers how floods do their ill work. The rain
which falls on treeless mountains is not absorbed there. The water washes down the mountain
sides, bringing with it first good soil and then subsoil, stones and rock. The hills eventually
become those peaked deserts the queer look of which must have puzzled many students of Japanese
pictures. The debris washed away is carried into the rivers, along with trees from the lower
slopes, and the level of the river beds is raised. Because there is less space in the river
beds for water the rivers overflow their banks, and disastrous floods take place. The farmers,
the local authorities and the State raise embankments higher and higher, but embankment building
is costly and cannot go on indefinitely. The real remedy is to decrease the supply of water
by planting forests in the mountains[102]. In many places the rivers are flowing above the
level of the surrounding country. The imagination is caught by the fact that there are four
earthquakes a day in Japan[103] and that within a twelvemonth fires destroy 400 acres or so
of buildings; but every year, on an average, floods, tidal waves and typhoons together drown
more than 600 people and cause a money loss of 25 million yen! Every year 10½ million yen are
spent by the State and the prefectures on river control alone.

Uchimura put on his famous wideawake and we went out for a walk. "I should like," he said,
"to press the view that the vaunted expansion of Japan has meant to the farmers an increase
of prices and taxes and of armaments out of all proportion to our population[104]."

Uchimura stood stock still in the little wood we had entered. "There is one thing more," he
added gravely. "Before you can get deeply into your subject you must touch religion. There
you see the depths of the people. A large part of the deterioration of the countryside is due
to the deterioration of Buddhism. You must ask about it. You will see in the villages much
of what your old writers used to call 'priestcraft.' You will hear of the thraldom of many
of the people. You will see with your own eyes that real Christianity may be a moral bath for
a rural district."

"The essentials, not the forms of Christianity," he declared, would save the countryside by
"brotherly union." "Brotherly union" would make a better life and a better agriculture. The
rural class, he explained, was more sharply divided than foreigners understood into owners
of land who lived on their rents and farmers who farmed[105]. The division between the two
classes was "as great as an Indian caste division." "To the landowner who lives in his village
like a feudal lord the simple Gospel, with its insistence on the sacredness of work, comes
as an intellectual revolution." Women as well as men of means received from Christianity "a
new conception of humanity." They ceased to "look upon their own glory and to take delight
in the flattery of poor people." They changed their way of speaking to the peasants. They developed
an interest, of which they knew nothing before, in the spiritual and material betterment of
the men, women and children of their village.

I went a two-days journey into the country with Uchimura. We stayed at the house of a landowner
who was one of his adherents. I found myself in a large room where two swallows were flitting,
intent on building on a beam which yearly bore a nest. In this room stood a shrine containing
the ancestral tablets. The daily offerings were no longer made, but Uchimura's counsel, unlike
that of some zealots, was to preserve not only this shrine but the large family shrine in the
courtyard. Near by was an engraving of Luther.

Uchimura spoke in the house to some thirty or more "people of the district who had accepted
Christianity." His appeal was to "live Christianity as given to the world by its founder."
The address, which was delivered from an arm-chair, was based on the fifth chapter of Matthew,
which in the preacher's copy appeared to contain cross-references to two disciples called Tolstoy
and Carlyle. When I was asked to speak I found that the women in the gathering had places in
front. "The remarkable effect of Christianity among those who have come to think with us,"
Uchimura told me afterwards, "is seen most in their treatment of women. Our host, had he not
been a Christian, would have been credited by public opinion with the possession of a concubine,
and would not have been blamed for it." When, after the speaking, we knelt in a circle and
talked less formally of how best to benefit rural people, we were joined by the women folk.
Later, when a dozen of the neighbours were invited to dinner, it was not served at separate
tables for each kneeling guest, but at one long table, an innovation "to indicate the brotherly
relation."

"So you see," said Uchimura, as we walked to the station in the morning, "in an antiquated
book, which, I suppose, stands dusty on the shelves of some of your reformers, there is power
to achieve the very things they aim at." He went on to explain that he looked "in the lives
of hearers, not in what they say," for results from his teaching. He believed in liberty and
freedom, in sowing the seed of change and reform and allowing people to develop as they would.
"Let men and women believe as they have light."

He spoke in his kindly way of how "the bond of a common faith enables Japanese to get closer
to the foreigner and the foreigner closer to the Japanese." There were many things we foreigners
did not understand. We did not understand, for example, that "A man's a man for a' that" was
an unfamiliar conception to a Japanese. I was to remember, when I interrogated Japanese about
the problems of rural life, that they had had to coin a word for "problems." Above all, I must
be careful not to "exaggerate the quality of Eastern morality." Uchimura asserted sweepingly
that "morality in the Anglo-Saxon sense is not found in Japan." We of the West underrated the
value of the part played by the Puritans in our development. Our moral life had been evolved
by the soul-stirring power of the Hebrew prophets and of Christ. To deny this was "kicking
your own mother." Just as it was not possible for the Briton or American to get his present
morality from Greece and Rome exclusively, it was not possible for the Japanese to obtain it
from the sources at his disposal.

The faults of the Eastern were that he thought too much of outward conduct. Good political
and neighbourly-relations, kindliness, honesty and thrift were his idea of morality. "To love
goodness and to hate evil with one's whole soul is a Christian conception for which you may
search in vain through heathendom." The horror which the Western man of high character felt
when he thought of the future of the little girls in attendance on geisha was not a horror
generated by Plato. "Heathen life looks nice on the outside to foreigners," but Confucianism,
Buddhism and Shintoism had all been weak in their attitude towards immorality. It was Christianity
alone which controlled sexual life. Without deep-seated love of and joy in goodness and deep-seated
horror of evil it was impossible to reform society.

Uchimura said that it had taken him thirty years to reach the conviction that the best way
of raising his countrymen was by preaching the religion of "a despised foreign peasant." Many
things he had been told by exponents of Christianity now seemed "very strange," but there remained
in the first four books of the New Testament, in the essence of Christianity, principles "which
would give new life to all men." Moved by this belief, Uchimura and his friends gave their
lives to the work of the Gospel, to a work attended by humiliations; "but this is our glory."

Japanese civilisation, he reiterated, was "only good in the sense that Greek and Roman civilisations
were good." Modern Japan represented "the best of Europe minus Christianity; the moral backbone
of Christianity is lacking." "Probe a dozen Buddhist priests in turn," he said, "and you find
something lacking; you don't find the Buddhist or Confucian really to be your brother[106]."

"The greatness of England," he went on, "is not due to the inherent greatness of the English
people, but to the greatness of the truths which they have received." In considering the sources
of national greatness, it was idle to believe that some peoples were original and some not
original in their ideas and methods. Where were the people to be found who were without extraneous
influence? Where would England be without Greek philosophy, Roman law, and Christianity?

Our talk broke off as several peasant women passed us on the narrow way by the rice fields.
The mattocks they carried were the same weight as their husbands' mattocks and the women were
going to do the same work as the men. But the women were nearly all handicapped by having a
child tied on their backs. Uchimura, returning to his objection to foreign political adventure,
said that Japan, properly cultivated, could support twice its present population. There were
many marshy districts which could be brought into cultivation by drainage. Then what might
not forestry do? But the progress could not be made because of lack of money. The money was
needed for "national defence."

"For myself," said Uchimura, "I find it still possible to believe in some power which will
take care of inoffensive, quiet, humble, industrious people. If all the high virtues of mankind
are not safeguarded somehow, then let us take leave of all the ennobling aspirations, all the
poetry, and all the deepest hopes we have, and cease to struggle upward. The question is whether
we have faith." We still waited, he declared, for the nation which would be Christian enough
to take its stand on the Gospel and sacrifice itself materially, if need be, to its faith that
right was greater than might.

And so "impractical, outspoken to rashness, but thoroughly sincere and experienced," as one
of his appreciative countrymen characterised him to me, we take leave of the "Japanese Carlyle."
With whom could I have gone more provocatively towards the foundation of things at the beginning
of my investigation in farther Japan?

FOOTNOTES:

[100] The statement is, he told me, a calumny. He explained that he lost his post for refusing
to bow, not to the portrait, but to the signature of the Emperor, the signature appended to
that famous Imperial rescript on education which is appointed to be read in schools. Uchimura
is very willing, he said, to show the respect which loyal Japanese are at all times ready to
manifest to the Emperor, and he would certainly bow before the portrait of His Majesty; but
in the proposal that reverence should be paid to the Imperial autograph he thought he saw the
demands of a "Kaiserism"--his word, he speaks vigorous English--which was foreign to the Japanese
conception of their sovereign, which would be inimical to the Emperor's influence and would
be bad for the nation.

[101] But journalism is one of the most powerful influences for good, and some of the best
brains of the country is represented in it. Papers like the Jiji, Asahi, Nichi Nichi, and the
Osaka papers run in conjunction with them have altogether a circulation approaching two millions.

[102] For statistics of forests, see Appendix XXXII.

[103] A severe shook occurs on an average about every six years. The eminent seismologist,
Professor Omori, told me that he does not expect an earthquake of a dangerous sort for a generation.

[104] The Oriental Economist, a Japanese publication, in the autumn of 1921 suggested the abandonment
of all the extensions to the Empire on the score that they had not been a benefit to Japan,
and that she was in no way dependent on them. See also Appendix XXXIII.

[105] See Appendix XXXIV.

[106] What of the old story which I have heard from Uchimura and others of the Confucian missionary
to certain head hunters of Formosa? After many years of labour among them they promised to
give up head hunting if they might take just one more head. At last the good man yielded, and
told them that a Chinaman in a red robe was coming towards the village the next day and his
head might be taken. On the morrow the men lay in wait for the stranger, sprang on him and
cut off his head, only to find that it was the head of their beloved missionary. Struck with
remorse and realising the evil of head taking, the tribe gave up head hunting for ever.

CHAPTER XI

THE IDEA OF A GAP

Bold is the donkey driver, O Khedive, and bold is the Khedive who dares to say what he will
believe, not knowing in any wise the mind of Allah, not knowing in any wise his own heart.

The "Japanese Carlyle" is getting grey. It seemed well to seek out some young Japanese thinker
and take his view of that "heathenism" concerning which Uchimura had delivered himself so unsparingly.
Let me speak of my first visit to my friend Yanagi.

As a youth Yanagi was a lonely student. He took his own way to knowledge and religion. The
famed General Nogi had been given by the Emperor the direction of the Peers' School, but even
under such distinguished tutelage the stripling made his stand. His reading led him to write
for the school magazine an anti-militarist article. The veteran, as I once learned from a friend
of Yanagi, promptly paraded the school, boys and masters. He spoke of disloyal, immoral, subversive
ideas, and bade the youthful disturber of the peace attend him at his own house. When Yanagi
stood before Nogi and was asked what he had to say, he replied with the question, "Don't you
feel pain because of sending so many men to death before Port Arthur[107]?"

Again I found my prophet in a cottage. It was a cottage overlooking rice fields and a lagoon.
From the Japanese scene outdoors I passed indoors to a new Japan. Cezanne, Puvis de Chavannes,
Beardsley, Van Gogh, Henry Lamb, Augustus John, Matisse and Blake--Yanagi has written a big
book on Blake which is in a second edition--hung within sight of a grand piano and a fine collection
of European music[108]. Chinese, Korean and Japanese pottery and paintings filled the places
in the dwelling not occupied by Western pictures and the Western library of a man well advanced
with an interpretative history of Eastern and Western mysticism. An armful of books about Blake
and Boehme, all Swedenborg, all Carlyle, all Emerson, all Whitman, all Shelley, all Maeterlinck,
all Francis Thompson, and all Tagore, and plenty of other complete editions; early Christian
mystics; much of William Law, Bergson, Eucken, Caird, James, Haldane, Bertrand Russell, Jefferies,
Havelock Ellis, Carpenter, Strindberg, "Æ," Yeats, Synge and Shaw; not a little poetry of the
fashion of Vaughan, Traherne and Crashaw; a well-thumbed Emily Brontë; all the great Russian
novelists; numbers of books on art and artists--it was an arresting collection to come on in
a Japanese hamlet, and odd to sit down beside it in order to talk of "heathen."

"Yes," said Yanagi--he speaks an English which reflects his wide reading--"our young maid,
on being shown the full moon the other night, bowed her head. I find this natural instinct
of some value. Our people have much natural feeling towards Nature. If modern Japanese art
has degenerated it is because it does not sufficiently find out life in things. The sough of
the wind in the trees may have only a slight influence on character, but it is a vital influence.
I do not like, of course, the word 'heathendom' of which Uchimura seems so fond. I dearly admire
Christ, but most of the Christianity of to-day is not Christ. It is largely Paul. It is a mixture.
It is not the clear, pure, original thing. Christians must reform their Christianity before
it can satisfy us. In the East we now see clearly enough to seek only the best that the West
can offer."

Yanagi said that the spontaneity and naturalness of Eastern religions ought to be recognised.
"You will find Christians admiring Walt Whitman, but it is Whitman the democrat they admire,
not Whitman the prophet of naturalness." He spoke with appreciation of the Zen sect of Buddhists.
Many of the Zen devotees were "noble and had a profound idea." He was unable to see "any difference
at all" between the best part of Buddhism and the best part of Christianity. He said that his
own mysticism was based on science, art, religion and philosophy. "My sincerest wish," he declared,
"is to produce a beautiful reconciliation of these four. As it is, too often scientists and
philosophers have no deep knowledge of religion or art, artists have no deep knowledge of religion
or science, and the religious have no idea of art. Surely the deepest religious idea is the
deepest artistic and philosophic idea. Perhaps our scientists are in the poorest state just
now with no understanding of art or religion. Our scientists are immersed in the problem of
matter, our religious people in the problem of spirit, and our artists forget that in dealing
with nature they are dealing with spirit as well as body."

Faced by force and science when Commander Perry came, Japan, in order to save herself from
foreign colonisation, had had to concentrate all her attention on force and science. She had
concentrated her attention with signal success. But naturally she had had, in the process,
to slacken her hold somewhat on the spiritual life.

"Always remember how difficult the Japanese find it to know which way to take. Their whole
basis has been shaken and on the surface all has become chaotic. Ten years hence it will be
possible to take a just view. There is much reason for high hopes. For one thing, the burden
of old thought does not rest so heavily on us as might be supposed. We are very free in many
ways. In the matter of religion Japan is the most free nation in the world. If England were
to become Buddhist it would sound strange or exotic, but Japan is free to become what she may."

"There may be a great difference between one of our temples and shrines and an English church,"
Yanagi proceeded, "but I cannot believe in the gap which some people seem to see yawning between
East and West. It is deplorable that the world should think that there is such a complete difference
between East and West. It is usually said that self-denial, asceticism, sacrifice, negation
are opposed to self-affirmation, individualism, self-realisation; but I do not believe in such
a gap. I wish to destroy the idea of a gap. It is an idea which was obtained analytically.
The meeting of East and West will not be upon a bridge over a gap, but upon the destruction
of the idea of a gap.

"In future, religion cannot be limited by this or that sect or idea. Religion cannot be limited
to Christianity, Buddhism, Confucianism or Mahomedanism. Uchimura says that it is the essence
of Christianity which has the power to rescue Japan from its chaotic state. But the essence
of Buddhism can also contribute some important element to the future of Japan. The notion that
the essence of Christianity and the essence of Buddhism are far apart is artificial and prejudiced."

One day some weeks later I walked with Yanagi on the hills. He said: "The weakest point in
the Japanese character is the lack of the power of questioning. We are repressed by our educational
system. And so many things come here at one time that it makes confusion. What is so often
taken for a lack of originality in us is a state resulting from an immense importation of foreign
ideas. They have been overpowering. Many of us have no clear ideas on life, society, sex and
so on, and you will find it difficult to get satisfactory answers to many questions which you
will want to ask."

As to morality, it was dangerous to say "this or that is immoral." Morality was often merely
custom. Ordinary morality had scant authority. Critics of Japanese morality should not forget
that, in the opinion of Japanese, Western people were more erotic than they were. Western dancing--not
to speak of Western women's evening costumes--was undoubtedly more erotic than Japanese dancing.
Again, the sexual curiosity of foreigners seemed stronger than that manifested by Japanese.
It was a well-known fact that the girls at many hotels and restaurants had not a little to
complain of from foreign men who misjudged their naïve ways. It must be remembered that Japanese
were franker in sexual matters than Europeans and Americans. Sexual ill-doing was not so much
concealed as in Europe. A wrong impression of Japanese morality was taken away by tourists
whose guides showed them, as in Paris, what they expected to see.

"I wonder," he said, "that Western visitors to Tokyo who talk of our immorality are not struck
by the fact that in an Eastern capital a foreign lady may walk home at night and be practically
safe from being spoken to. The Japanese are undoubtedly a very kind people. They may be unmoral,
but they are not immoral."

"Most of our people do not understand liberty in the mental sexual relations. Love is not free.
In a very large proportion of cases, indeed, parents would oppose a match because a son or
daughter had fallen in love. And if it is difficult to marry for love it is not easy to fall
in love.[109] Society in which young men and young women meet is restricted; there are few
opportunities of conversation. Without liberty towards women there can be no perfect sense
of responsibility towards them."

What had been taught to women as the supreme virtue was the virtue of sacrifice for father,
husband, children. It was most important to let women know the significance of individualism.
They were always offering themselves for others before they became themselves. But the idea
of individuality was very little clearer to the Japanese man than to the Japanese woman. People
were too prone to wish to give 100 yen before they had 100 yen. The Japanese were the most
devotional people in the world, but they hardly knew yet the things to be devoted to.

Yanagi is a leading member of a small association of literary men, artists and students who
graduated together from the Peers' School. They call themselves for no obvious reason the Shirakaba
or Silver Birch Society. The intelligent and consistent efforts of these young men to introduce
vital Western work in literature, philosophy, painting, sculpture, draughtsmanship and music,
and the large measure of success they have attained is of some significance. Several members
of the group belong to the old Kuge families, that is the ancient nobility which surrounded
the Emperor at Kyoto before the Restoration. Cut off for centuries from military and administrative
activities by the dominance of the Shogunate Government, the Kuge devoted themselves to the
arts and the refinements of life. For the exclusiveness of the past some of their descendants
substitute artistic integrity. The Shirakaba has had for several years a remarkable magazine.
Its editor and its publisher, its size, its price and its date of publication are continually
changed; it never makes any bid for popularity; it expresses its sentiments in a downright
way and it has always been anti-official: yet it survives and pays its way. Beyond the magazine,
the Society has had every year at least one exhibition of what its members conceive to be significant
modern European work. The members have also supported a few Japanese artists of outstanding
sincerity. Through the Shirakaba the influence of Cezanne, Van Gogh, Rodin, Blake, Delacroix,
Matisse, Augustus John, Beardsley, Courbet, Daumier, Maillol, Chavannes and Millet, particularly
Cezanne, Van Gogh, Rodin and Blake, has been marked. The Silver Birch group has never tired
of extolling the great names of Rembrandt, Dürer, El Greco, Van Eyck, Goya, Leonardo, Michael
Angelo, Tintoretto, Giotto and Mantegna[110].

While an ardent Young Japan has formed and dissolved many societies, movements and fashions,
this Shirakaba group has held fast and has gained friends by its sincerity, its vision and
its audacity[111]. Rodin encouraged the Shirakaba efforts to reproduce the best Western art
by presenting it with three pieces of sculpture.

"The intellectual man does no fighting," Froude has written. Why do not Yanagi and his friends
make a stand on public questions? "Because," he said, "at the present stage of our development
it is almost impossible to take up a strong attitude, and because, important though political
and social questions are, they are not, in our opinion, of the first importance. To artists,
philosophers, students of religion, such problems are secondary. More important problems are:
What is the meaning of this world? What is God? What is the essence of religion? How can we
best nourish ourselves so as to realise our own personalities? Political and social problems
are secondary for us at present; they are not related emotionally to our present conditions[112].

        For the East the Root,
        For the West the Fruit.

"If we faced such problems directly we should probably make them primary problems, as you do
in Great Britain. Our present attitude does not prove, however, that we are cold to political
and social problems. In fact, when we think of these terrible political and social questions
they make us boil. But you will understand that in order to have something to give to others,
we must have that something. We are seeking after that something."

Yanagi, continuing, spoke of the direct contribution which the new artistic movement in Japan,
under the influence of modern Western art, was making to the solution of political and social
questions[113]. The interest of the younger generation in Post Impressionism was "quite disharmonious
with the ordinary attitude towards militarism." European art broke down barriers in the Japanese
mind. When the younger generation, nourished on higher ideals, grew up, it would be the State,
and there would be a more hopeful condition of affairs. People generally supposed that social
questions were the most practical; but religious, artistic, philosophic questions were, in
the truest sense of the word, the most practical.

Yanagi went on to tell of his devotion to Blake. He could not understand "why Englishmen are
so cool to him." He asked me how it was that there was no word about Blake in Andrew Lang's
work on English literature. "I cannot imagine," he said, "why such an intelligent man could
not appreciate Blake." Yanagi regarded Blake as "the artist of immense will, of immense desire,
and a man in whom can be seen that affirmative attitude towards life, exhibited later by Whitman."
Yanagi spoke also of "Anglo-Saxon nobility, liberty, depth of character and healthiness," and
of "a deep and noble character" in English literature which he did not find elsewhere. Whitman,
Emerson, Poe and William James were "the crown of America."

As I close this chapter I recall Yanagi's library, in the service of which, bettering Mark
Pattison's example, two-thirds of its owner's income was for some time expended. I remember
the thatched dwelling overlooking the quiet reed-bound lagoon with its frosty sunrises, red
moonrises and apparitions of Fuji above the clouds seventy miles away. No Western visitor whom
I took to Abiko failed to be moved by that room, designed by Yanagi himself in every detail,
wherein East meets West in harmony. I have made note of his Western books but not of the classics
and strange mystic writings of Chinese and Korean priests in piles of thin volumes in soft
bindings of blue or brown. I have not mentioned a Rembrandt drawing and next to it the vigorous
but restful brush lines of an artist priest of the century that brought Buddhism to Japan;
severe little gilt-bronze figures of deities from China, a little older; pottery figures of
exquisite beauty from the tombs of Tang, a little later; Sung pottery, a dynasty farther on;
Korai celadons from Korean tombs of the same epoch; and whites and blue and whites of Ming
and Korean Richo. On the wall a black and yellow tiger is "burning bright" on a strip of blood-red
silk tapestry woven on a Chinese loom for a Taoist priest 500 years ago. Cimabue's portrait
of St. Francis breathes over Yanagi's writing desk from one side, while from the other Blake's
amazing life mask looks down "with its Egyptian power of form added to the intensity of Western
individualism." These are Yanagi's silent friends. His less quiet friends of the flesh have
felt that this room was a sanctuary and Yanagi a priest of eternal things, but a priest without
priestcraft, a priest living joyously in the world. Above his desk is inscribed the line of Blake:

        Thou also, dwellest in eternity

and Kepler's aspiration, "My wish is that I may perceive God whom I find everywhere in the
external world in like manner within and without me."

FOOTNOTES:

[107] One of the reasons assigned for the suicide of the General was thoughts of his responsibility
for the terrible slaughter in the assaults on Port Arthur.

[108] Mrs. Yanagi is one of the best contraltos heard at the now numerous Japanese concerts
of Western music.

[109] Shinjū, or suicide for love, the girl often being a geisha, is common.

[110] "I am inclined to think," wrote Yanagi in 1921, in a paper on Korean art, "that we have
paid if anything rather too much attention to European works while making little effort to
pay attention to what lies much nearer to us."

[111] POLICE STANDARDS.--The sale of one issue of the magazine was prohibited by the police,
who found a nude "antagonistic to the ordinary standard of public morals." The editors' answer
next month--the police standard being, "No front views"--was to publish half a dozen more nudes
with their backs to the reader.

[112] It will be remembered that this conversation took place in the summer of 1915 at the
outset of my investigation. Since then, as noted throughout this book, economic questions have
increasingly pressed themselves forward. I may mention that in 1919 Yanagi wrote a vigorous
and moving protest against misgovernment in Korea. In a recent letter to me he says: "You know
that I am going to establish a Korean Folk Art Society in Seoul. This is a big work, but I
want to do it with all my power for love of Korea. I approach the solution of the Korean question
by the way of Art. Politics can never solve the question. I want to use the gallery as a meeting-place
of Koreans and Japanese. People cannot quarrel in beauty. This is my simple yet definite belief."
Yanagi's manifesto on his project made one think of the age when the great culture of China
and India glowed across the straits of Tsushima in the wake of early Buddhism.

[113] A well-known member of the Shirakaba group started two years ago an "ideal village" among
the mountains. It is an effort towards social freedom in which the police manifest a continuous
interest.

ACROSS JAPAN (TOKYO TO NIIGATA AND BACK)

CHAPTER XII

TO THE HILLS

(TOKYO, SAITAMA, TOCHIGI AND FUKUSHIMA)

Nothing which concerns a countryman is a matter of unconcern to me.--TERENCE

During the month of July I went from one side of Japan to the other, starting from Tokyo, across
the sea from which lies America, and coming out at Niigata, across the sea from which lies Siberia.

We first made a four hours' railway run through the great Kwanto plain (6,000 square miles).
Travelling is comfortable on such a trip, for travellers take off their coats and waistcoats,
and the train-boy--he has the word "Boy" on his collar in English--brings fans and bedroom
slippers. The fans, which on one side advertised "Hotels in European style, directly managed
by the Imperial Government Railway[114]," offered on the other a poem and a drawing. A poem
addressed to a snail played with the idea of its giving its life to climbing Fuji. The poem
was composed by a poet who wrote many delightful hokku (seventeen-syllable poems), showing
a humorous sympathy with the humblest creatures. One poem is:

        Come and play with me,
        Thou orphan sparrow!

Like Burns, Issa addressed a poem to a louse.

As we climbed from the vicinity of the sea to higher lands someone recalled the saying about
saints living in the mountains and sages by the sea. Speaking of religion, one man said that
he had known of people giving half their income to religious purposes. He also mentioned that
for some years his mother had gone to hear a sermon in a Japanese Christian church every Sunday,
but she still served her Buddhist shrine.

It was at an inn at the hot spring near the Mount Nasu volcano--the odour of the sulphurous
hot water was everywhere in the district--that I first enjoyed the attentions of the blind
amma (masseur or masseuse), the call of whose plaintive pipe is heard every evening in the
smallest community. Amma san rubbed and pommelled me for an hour for 28 sen. The amma does
not massage the skin, but works through the yukata (bath gown) of the patient. I had my massaging
as I knelt with the other guests of the inn at an entertainment arranged for the benefit of
residents. The entertainers, professional and non-professional--the non-professionals were
local farmers--knelt on a low platform or danced in front of it. They were extraordinarily
able. A dramatic tale by one of the story-tellers was about a yokelish young wrestler and a
daimyo. Another described the woes and suicide of an old-time Court lady.

The next day we started on foot on a seven miles' climb of the volcano. Its lower slopes were
covered with a variety of that knee-high bamboo with a creeping root, which is so troublesome
to farmers when they break up new ground. One variety is said to blossom and fruit once in
sixty years and then die. An ingenious professor has traced mice plagues to this habit. In
the year in which the bamboo fruits the mice increase and multiply exceedingly. Suddenly their
food supply gives out and they descend to the plains to live with the farmers.

At length we came in sight of the smoke and vapour of the volcano. Soon we were near the top,
where the white trunks and branches of dead trees and scrub, killed by falling ash or gusts
of vapour, dotted an awesome desolation of calcined and fused stone and solidified mud. At
the summit we looked down into the churning horror of the volcano's vat and at different spots
saw the treacly sulphur pouring out, brilliant yellow with red streaks. The man to whom there
first came the idea of hell and a prisoned revengeful power must surely have looked into a
crater. In the throat of this crater there seethed and spluttered an ugliness that was scarlet,
green, brown and yellow. The sound of the steam blowing off was like the roar of the sea. The
air was stifling. It was very hot, and there was a high eerie wind.

Adventurous men had built rude bulwarks of stone over some of the orifices, and in this way
had compelled the volcano to furnish them with sulphur free from dirt. The production of sulphur
in Japan is valued at close on three million yen.

As we went on our journey we spoke of the sturdiness and cheeriness of our chief carrier, who
had told us that he was seventy. I asked him if he thought it fair that he should have to walk
so far on a hot day with so much to carry while we were empty-handed. He replied that it might
appear to be unjust, but that he was happy enough. He said that he had lived long and seen
many things, and he knew that to be rich was not always to be happy. He quoted the proverb,
"Sunshine and rice may be found everywhere," and the poem which may be rendered, "If you look
at a water-fowl thoughtlessly you may imagine that she has nothing to do but float quietly
on the water, yet she is moving her feet ceaselessly beneath the surface."

At the little hot spring inn where we next stayed, insect powder was on sale, not without reasonable
hope of patronage by the guests. The Asahi once facetiously reported that I had taken on a
journey three to (six pecks) of insect powder. The chief protector of the prudent traveller
in remote Japan is a giant pillowslip of cotton. He gets into it and ties the strings together
under his chin. The mats and futon of old-fashioned hotels are full of fleas. The hard cylindrical
Japanese pillow has no doubt its tenants also, but I never got accustomed to using it, and
laid my head on a doubled-up kneeling cushion.

A foot-high partition separated the men's hot bath from the women's. My cold bath in the morning
I found I had to take unselfconsciously at a water-gush in front of the house. As the food
was poor here, we were glad of our tinned food and ship's biscuits. This was of course in a
remote part. Apart from ordinary Japanese food, there are usually available at the inns chicken,
fish of some sort, eggs, omelettes and soups. With a pot of jam or two and some powdered milk
in one's bag, one can live fairly well. Fresh milk can now be got in unlikely places on giving
notice overnight. It is produced for invalids and children. If one makes no fuss, remembers
one is a traveller who has resolved to see rural Japan, and realises that the inn people will
try to do their best, one will not fare so badly. On the railway one is well catered for by
the provision of bento (lunch) boxes, sold on the platforms of stations. These chip boxes contain
rice (hot), cold omelette, cold fish or chicken and assorted pickles, and provide an appetising
and inexpensive meal.

Monkeys, bears and antelopes are shot in this district. One man spoke of a troop of eighty
monkeys. In the high mountain regions there are still people who escape the census and live
a wild life. The records of a gipsy folk called Sanka have a history going back 700 or 800 years.

As we wound our way up and down the hill-sides we saw evidence of "fire-farming." It is the
simple method by which a small tract with a favourable aspect is cleared by fire and cultivated,
and then, when the fertility is exhausted, abandoned. I was assured that after fire-farming
"tea springs up naturally," and that though tea-drinking may have been introduced from China
there could not be such large areas of tea growing wild if tea were not indigenous.

Most of our paths lay through woods and matted vegetation. I noticed that trees were often
felled in order that mushrooms might be grown on and around their trunks. There is a large
consumption of these tree-grown mushrooms in Japan and an export trade worth two and a half
million yen.

An inscribed stone by our path was a reminder of the belief in "mountain maidens." They have
the undoubted merit of not being "so peevish as fairies." At another stone, before which was
a pile of small stones, a farmer told us that when a traveller threw a stone on the heap he
"left behind his tiredness."

In the first house we came to we found a young widow turning bowls with power from a water-wheel.
She could finish 400 bowls in a day and got from one to five sen apiece. She said that she
had often wished to see a foreigner. Like nearly all the girls and women of the hills, she
wore close-fitting blue cotton trousers.

We descended to a kind of prairie which had a tree here and there and roughly wooded hills
on either side. This brought us to the problem of the wise method of dealing with the enormous
wood-bearing areas of the country, the timber crop of which is so irregular in quality. Japan
requires many more scientifically planned forests. As coal is not in domestic use, however,
large quantities of cheap wood are needed for burning and for charcoal making. The demand for
hill pasture is also increasing. How shall the claims of good timber, good firewood, good charcoal-making
material and good pasture be reconciled? In the county through which we were passing--a county
which, owing to its large consumption of wood fuel, needs relatively little charcoal--the charcoal
output was worth as much as 35,000 yen a year.

We saw "buckwheat in full bloom as white as snow," as the Chinese poem says. At a farmhouse
there was a box fixed on a barn wall. It was for communications for the police from persons
who desired to make their suggestions for the public welfare privately.

Towards evening, when we had done about twenty miles, I managed to twist an ankle. Happily
I had the chance of a ride. It was on the back of a dour-looking mare which was accompanied
by her foal and tied by a halter to the saddle of a led pack-horse which was carrying two large
boxes. Thus impressively I did several miles in descending darkness and across the rocky beds
of two rivers. The horse of this district is a downcast-looking animal in spite of the fact
that it is stalled under the same roof as its owner and is thus able to share to some extent
in his family life.

At the town at which we at last arrived, the comfort of the hot bath was enhanced by a sturdy
lass of the inn who unasked and unannounced came and applied herself resolutely to scrubbing
and knuckling our backs.

The next day I went to the principal school. There were in the place three primary schools,
one with a branch for agricultural work. The "attendance" at the principal school, where there
were 379 boys and girls, was 98 per cent, for the boys and 94 per cent, for the girls.[115]
The buildings were most creditable to a small place fifty miles from a railway station. The
community had met the whole cost out of its official funds and by subscriptions. More than
half the expenditure of many a village is on education, which in Japan is compulsory but not
free. One cannot but be impressed by the pride which is taken in the local schools. The dominating
man-made feature of the landscape is less frequently than might be supposed a temple or a shrine:
where the picture which catches the eye is not the vast expanse of the crops of the plain or
the marvels of terracing for hill crops, it is the long, low school building, set almost invariably
on the best possible site. The poorly paid men and women teachers are earnest and devoted,
and their influence must be far-reaching. They are rewarded in part, no doubt, by the respect
which pupils and the general public give to the sensei (teacher).[116] At the school I visited,
the children, as is customary, swept and washed out the schoolrooms and kept the playground
trim. Above one teacher's desk were the following admonitions:

        Be obedient.
        Be decent.
        Be active.
        Be social.
        Be serious.

"Be serious"!--graver small folk sit in no schools in the world. Here, as usual, corporal punishment
was never given. I suggested to teachers all sorts of juvenile delinquencies, but their faith
in the sufficiency of reprimands, of "standing out" and of detention after school hours was
unshaken.

A new wing, a beautiful piece of carpenter's work, had cost 4,000 yen, a large sum in Japan,
where wood and village labour are equally cheap. It was to be used chiefly for the gymnastics
which are steadily adding to the stature of the Japanese people. At one end there was an opening,
about 20 ft. across and 5 ft. deep, designed as an honourable place for the portraits of the
Emperor and Empress, which are solemnly exposed to view on Imperial birthdays[117].

Apart from a local spirit of pride and emulation and a belief in education, one of the reasons
for the building of new schools and adding to old ones is to be found in the recent extension
of the period of compulsory attendance. It used to be from six to ten years of age; it is now
from six to twelve. The visitor to Japan usually under-estimates the ages of children because
they are so small. Japanese boys grow suddenly from about fifteen to sixteen.

In the whole of this county, with a population of 35,000, there were, I learnt at the county
offices, 22 elementary schools with 36 branch schools, 3 secondary schools and 17 winter schools.
Within the same area there were 46 Buddhist temples with about 60 priests, and 125 Shinto shrines
with 11 priests.

The chief police officer, in chatting with me, mentioned that, out of 71 charges of theft,
only 47 were proceeded with. When charges were not proceeded with it was either because restitution
had been made or the chief constable had exercised his discretion and dismissed the offender
with a reprimand. When transgressors are dismissed with a reprimand an eye is kept on them
for a year. As the Japanese are in considerable awe of their police, I have no doubt that,
as was explained to me, those who have lapsed into evil-doing, but are released from custody
with a warning, may "tremble and correct their conduct." In the whole county in a year 14,400
admonitions were given at 14 police stations. The noteworthy thing in the criminal statistics
is the small proportion of crime against women and children.

The fact that the county was in a remote part of Japan may be held, perhaps, to account for
the fact that there were in it, I was assured, only 14 geisha and 8 women known to be of immoral
character. All of them were living in the town and they were said to be chiefly patronised
by commercial travellers and imported labourers. I was told that there were pre-nuptial relations
between many young men and young women. Two undoubted authorities in the district agreed that
they could not answer for the chastity of any young men before marriage or of "as many as 10
per cent." of the young women. In an effort to save the reputation of their daughters, fathers
sometimes register illegitimate children as the offspring of themselves and their wives. Or
when an unmarried girl is about to have a child her father may call the neighbours to a feast
and announce to them the marriage of his daughter to her lover. The figures for illegitimate
births are vitiated by the fact that in Japan children are recorded as illegitimate who are
born to people who have omitted to register their otherwise respectable unions.[118]

In the county in which I was travelling I was assured that half the still births might be put
down to immoral relations and half to imperfect nourishment or overworking of the mother. In
this district girls marry from 17 or 18, men from 18 to 30.

The town was full of country people who had come to see the festival. One feature of it was
the performance of plays on four ancient wheeled stages of a simplicity in construction that
would have delighted William Poel. Formerly these plays were given by the local youths; now
professional actors are employed. The different acts of the historical dramas which were performed
were divided into half a dozen scenes, and when one of these scenes had been enacted the stage
was wheeled farther along the street. At the conclusion of each scene some three dozen small
boys, all wearing the white-and-black speckled cotton kimono and German caps which are the
common wear of lads throughout Japan, would swarm up on the stage, and, with fans waved downwards,
would yell at the pitch of their voices an ancient jingle, which seemed to signify "Push, push,
push and go on!" This was addressed to a score or so of young men who with loud shouts hauled
the heavy stage-wagon along the street. The performances on the four moving theatres went on
simultaneously and sometimes the cars passed one another. The performances were given on the
eve and on the day and through the night of the festival. The acting was amazingly good, considering
the July heat and the cramped conditions in which the actors worked. Happy boys sat at the
back of the scenes fanning the players. Our kindly and voluble landlady was not satisfied with
the number of times the stages stopped before her inn. She loudly threatened the youths who
were dragging them that she would reclaim some properties she had lent and tell her dead husband
of their ingratitude!

At one of the booths which had been opened for the festival by a strolling company there were
women actors, contrary to the convention of the Japanese stage on which men enact female rôles
and in doing so use a special falsetto. Some of these actresses performed men's parts. At every
performance in a Japanese theatre, as I have already mentioned, a policeman is provided with
a chair on a special platform, or in an otherwise favourable position, so that he can view
and if necessary censor what is going on. The constable at this particular play was kind enough
to offer me his seat. The rest of the audience was content with the floor. The poor little
company of players brought to their work both ability and an artistic conscience, but they
had to do everything in the rudest way. They were in no way embarrassed by the attendants frequently
trimming the inferior oil lamps on the stage. A little girl on the floor, entranced by the
performance on the stage, or curious about some detail of it, ran forward and laid her chin
on the boards and studied the actors at leisure. The folk in the front row of the gallery dangled
their naked legs for coolness.

One of my friends asked me how we managed in the West to identify the people who wanted to
leave the theatre between the acts. I explained that as our performances did not last from
early afternoon until nearly midnight it was rare for anyone to wish to leave a theatre until
the play was over. At a Japanese playhouse, however, a portion of the audience may be disposed
to go home at some stage of the proceedings and return later. The careful manager of a small
theatre identifies these patrons by impressing a small stamp on the palms of their hands.

From the theatre we went to the travelling shows. They charged 2 sen. We were shown a mermaid,
peepshows, a snake, an unhappy bear, three doleful monkeys and some stuffed animals which may
or may not have had in life an uncommon number of legs. There was a barefaced imposture by
a young and pretty show-woman who insisted that two marmots in her lap were the offspring of
a girl. "Look," she cried, "at two sisters, the daughters of one mother. See their hands!"
And she held up their paws. She rounded off the fraud by feeding the creatures with condensed milk.

As I returned to the inn from these Elizabethan scenes I noticed that I was preceded in the
crowd by a spectacled policeman who carried a paper lantern. Although, as I have explained,
the stage plays given in the street were continued all night, only one arrest was made. The
prisoner was a drunkard who proved to be a medicine seller but described himself as a journalist.
I went to see the clean wooden cell where topers are confined until they are sober. It had
a very low door, so that culprits might be compelled to enter and leave humbly on their knees.

We had begun our festival day at six in the morning by attending a celebration at the Shinto
shrine. "Although it is no longer necessary, perhaps, to attend the ceremony in a special kind
of geta," said our landlady, "it would be as well if you observed the old rule not to attend
without taking a bath in the early morning."[119]

At the ancient shrine the townspeople whose turn it was to attend the annual function had assembled
in ceremonial costumes. One man wore his hair tied up in the fashion of the old prints. The
plaintive strains of old instruments made the strange appeal of all folk music. A decorous
procession was headed by the piebald pony of the shrine. Youths and maidens carried aloft tubs
of rice, vegetables, fish and saké. These were received by the chief priest. He carefully placed
a strip of cloth before his mouth and nose[120] and addressed the chief deity, all heads being
bowed. Then the priest placed the offerings in the darkened interior of the shrine. There was
a cheery naturalness in all the proceedings. A few small children in gay holiday dress ran
freely among the worshippers and encountered indulgent smiles. When an end had been made of
offering food and drink the priest within the shrine read a second message to the deity. Again
all heads were bowed. His thin voice was heard in the morning quiet, interrupted only by a
child's cry, the twittering of birds and the wind rustling the cryptomeria, dark against the
blue of the hills.

After the ceremony the food and drink which had been brought by the people were consumed by
the priests and the country folk in a large room of the chief priest's house. We were given
ceremonial saké to which rice had been added and as mementoes little cakes and dried fish.
Not so long ago the presence of a foreigner would have been unwelcome at such a ceremony as
we had witnessed: the fear of "contagion of foreigners" extended even to people from another
prefecture. To-day the amiable priest placed in our hands for a few moments a small Buddha
supposed to be six centuries old.

Before the festival the priest had observed certain taboos for eight days. He had avoided meeting
persons in mourning and his food had been cooked at a specially prepared fire. He had been
careful not to touch other persons, particularly women; he had bathed several times daily in
cold water and he had said many prayers. The heads of the household in the community whose
turn it was to attend at the shrine were also supposed to have observed some of the same taboos.
Only those persons might make offerings at the shrine whose fathers and mothers were living.[121]
Formerly portions of the offerings of rice and saké at the shrine were solemnly given to a
young girl.

In this district, when we discussed the influences which made for moral or non-material improvement,
everyone put the school first. Then came home training. In this part of the world the Buddhist
priest was too often indifferent; the Shinto priest worked at his farm. One person well qualified
to express an opinion said that a "wise and benevolent" chief constable could exercise a good
moral influence. Others believed in public opinion. A policeman said, "The first thing is for
people to have food and clothes; without such primary satisfaction it is very difficult to
expect them to be moral." In considering the influence of the police and the schoolmaster it
is not without interest to remember that a chief of police and the head of a school receive
about the same salary. Assistant teachers and plain constables are also on an equality. I found
the salary of the administrative head of one county, the gunchō, to be only 2,000 yen a year.

I was told that in the prefecture we were passing through there were no fewer than 360 co-operative
societies. The credit branches had a capital of two million yen; the purchase and sale branches
showed a turnover of three million yen. In time of famine, due to too low a temperature for
the rice or to floods which drown the crop, co-operation had proved its value. The prefectures
north of Tokyo facing the Pacific are the chief victims of famine, for near Sendai the warm
current from the south turns off towards America. I was told that the number of persons who
actually die as the result of famine has been "exaggerated." The number in 1905 was "not more
than a hundred." These unfortunates were infants "and infirm people who suffered from lack
of suitable nourishment." Every year the development of railway and steam communications makes
easier the task of relieving famine sufferers.[122] In the old days people were often found
dead who had money but were unable to get food for it. As Japan is a long island with varying
climates there is never general scarcity.

FOOTNOTES:

[114] For statistics of railways, see Appendix XXXV.

[115] The percentage of children "attending" school for the whole of Japan is officially reported
in 1918 as: cities, 98.18 per cent.; villages, 99.23 per cent.; but this does not mean daily
attendance.

[116] Since 1919 the salaries of elementary school teachers have been raised to 26, 16 and
15 yen per month, according to grade.

[117] Only last year (1921) another schoolmaster lost his life in an endeavour to save the
Emperor's portrait from his burning school.

[118] See Appendix XXXVI.

[119] A hot bath is ordinarily obtainable only in the afternoon and evening in most Japanese
hotels. In the morning people are content merely with rinsing their hands and face.

[120] In addressing a superior, many Japanese still draw in their breath from time to time audibly.

[121] That is, persons who might be considered not to have failed in their filial duties.

[122] After the failure of the 1918-19 crop in India, 600,000 persons were in receipt of famine
relief.

CHAPTER XIII

THE DWELLERS IN THE HILLS (FUKUSHIMA)

I didn't visit this place in the hope of seeing fine prospects--my study is man.--BORROW

Before I left the town I had a chat with a landowner who turned his tenants' rent rice into
saké. He was of the fifth generation of brewers. He said that in his childhood drunken men
often lay about the street; now, he said, drunken men were only to be seen on festival days.

There had been a remarkable development in the trade in flavoured aerated waters, "lemonade"
and "cider champagne" chiefly. I found these beverages on sale in the remotest places, for
the Japanese have the knack of tying a number of bottles together with rope, which makes them
easily transportable. The new lager beers, which are advertised everywhere, have also affected
the consumption of saké.[123] Saké is usually compared with sherry. It is drunk mulled. At
a banquet, lasting five or six hours or longer, a man "strong in saké" may conceivably drink
ten go (a go is about one-third of a pint) before achieving drunkenness, but most people would
be affected by three go. Some of the topers who boast of the quantity of saké they can consume--I
have heard of men declaring that they could drink twenty go--are cheated late in the evening
by the waiting-maids. The little saké bottles are opaque, and it is easy to remove them for
refilling before they are quite empty.

The brewer, who was a firm adherent of the Jishu sect of Buddhists, was accustomed to burn
incense with his family at the domestic shrine every morning. But this was not the habit of
all the adherents of his denomination. As to the moral advancement of the neighbourhood, his
grandfather "tried very earnestly to improve the district by means of religion, but without
result." He himself attached most value to education and after that to young men's associations.

As we left the town we passed a "woman priest" who was walking to Nikko, eighty miles away.
Portraits of dead people, entrusted to her by their relatives for conveyance to distant shrines,
were hung round her body.

As the route became more and more hilly I realised how accurate is that representation of hills
in Japanese art which seems odd before one has been in Japan: the landscape stands out as if
seen in a flash of lightning.

Three things by the way were arresting: the number of shrines, mostly dedicated to the fox
god; the rice suspended round the farm buildings or drying on racks; and the masses of evening
primroses, called in Japan "moon-seeing flowers."

A feature of every village was one or more barred wooden sheds containing fire-extinguishing
apparatus, often provided and worked by the young men's association. Sometimes a piece of ground
was described to me as "the training ground of the fire defenders." The night patrols of the
village were young fellows chosen in turn by the constable from the fire-prevention parties,
made up by the youths of the village. There stood up in every village a high perpendicular
ladder with a bell or wooden clapper at the top to give the alarm. The emblem of the fire brigade,
a pole with white paper streamers attached, was sometimes distinguished by a yellow paper streamer
awarded by the prefecture.

On a sweltering July day it was difficult to realise that the villages we passed through, now
half hidden in foliage, might be under 7 ft. of snow in winter. In travelling in this hillier
region one has an extra kurumaya, who pushes behind or acts as brakeman.

At the "place of the seven peaks" we found a stone dedicated to the worship of the stars which
form the Plough. Again and again I noticed shrines which had before them two tall trees, one
larger than the other, called "man and wife." It was explained to me that "there cannot be
a more sacred place than where husband and wife stand together." A small tract of cryptomeria
on the lower slopes of a hill belonged to the school. The children had planted it in honour
of the marriage of the Emperor when he was Crown Prince.

Often the burial-grounds, the stones of which are seldom more than about 2 ft. high by 6 ins.
wide, are on narrow strips of roadside waste. (The coffin is commonly square, and the body
is placed in it in the kneeling position so often assumed in life.) Here, as elsewhere, there
seemed to be rice fields in every spot where rice fields could possibly be made.

On approaching a village the traveller is flattered by receiving the bows of small girls and
boys who range themselves in threes and fours to perform their act of courtesy. I was told
that the children are taught at school to bow to foreigners. I remember that in the remoter
villages of Holland the stranger also received the bows of young people.

On the house of the headman of one village were displayed charms for protection from fire,
theft and epidemic. We spoke of weather signs, and he quoted a proverb, "Never rely on the
glory of the morning or on the smile of your mother-in-law."

We had before us a week's travel by kuruma. Otherwise we should have liked to have brought
away specimens of the wooden utensils of some of the villages. The travelling woodworker whom
we often encountered--he has to travel about in order to reach new sources of wood supply--has
been despised because of his unsettled habits, but I was told that there was a special deity
to look after him. In the town we had left there was delightful woodwork, but most of the draper's
stuff was pitiful trash made after what was supposed to be foreign fashions. I may also mention
the large collection of blood-and-thunder stories upon Western models which were piled up in
the stationers' shops.

As we walked up into the hills--the kuruma men were sent by an easier route--we passed plenty
of sweet chestnuts and saw large masses of blue single hydrangea and white and pink spirea.
We came on the ruined huts of those who had burnt a bit of hillside and taken from it a few
crops of buckwheat. The charred trunks of trees stood up among the green undergrowth that had
invaded the patches. There was a great deal of plantain and a kurumaya mentioned that sometimes
when children found a dead frog they buried it in leaves of that plant. Japanese children are
also in the habit of angling for frogs with a piece of plantain. The frogs seize the plantain
and are jerked ashore.

We took our lunch on a hill top. It had been a stiff climb and we marvelled at the expense
to which a poor county must be put for the maintenance of roads which so often hang on cliff
sides or span torrents. The great piles of wood accumulated at the summit turned the talk to
"silent trade." In "silent trade" people on one side of a hill traded with people on the other
side without meeting. The products were taken to the hill top and left there, usually in a
rough shed built to protect the goods from rain. The exchange might be on the principle of
barter or of cash payment. But the amount of goods given in exchange or the cash payment made
was left to honour. "Silent trade" still continues in certain parts of Japan. Sometimes the
price expected for goods is written up in the shed. "Silent trade" originated because of fears
of infectious disease; it survives because it is more convenient for one who has goods to sell
or to buy to travel up and down one side of a mountain than up and down two sides.

As we proceeded on our way we were once more struck by the extraordinary wealth of wood. Here
is a country where every household is burning wood and charcoal daily, a country where not
only the houses but most of the things in common use are made of wood; and there seems to be
no end to the trees that remain. It is little wonder that in many parts there has been and
is improvident use of wood. Happily every year the regulation of timber areas and wise planting
make progress. But for many square miles of hillside I saw there is no fitting word but jungle.

At the small ramshackle hot-spring inns of the remote hills the guests are mostly country folk.
Many of them carefully bring their own rice and miso, and are put up at a cost of about 10
sen a day. In the passage ways one finds rough boxes about 4 ft. square full of wood ash in
the centre of which charcoal may be burned and kettles boiled.

We were in a region where there is snow from the middle of November to the middle of April.
For two-thirds of December and January the snow is never less than 2 ft. deep. The attendance
of the children at one school during the winter was 95 per cent. for boys and 90 per cent.
for girls. (See note, p. 112.)

My kurumaya pointed to a mountain top where, he said, there were nearly three acres of beautiful
flowers. The rice fields in the hills were suffering from lack of water and a deputation of
villagers had gone ten miles into the mountains to pray for rain. It is wonderful at what altitudes
rice fields are contrived. I noted some at 2,500 ft. In looking down from a place where the
cliff road hung out over the river that flowed a hundred feet below I noticed a stone image
lying on its back in the water. It may have come there by accident, but the ducking of such
a figure in order to procure rain is not unknown.

At an inn I asked one of the greybeards who courteously visited us if there would be much competition
for his seat when he retired from the village assembly. He thought that there would be several
candidates. In the town from which we had set out on our journey through the highlands a doctor
had spent 500 yen in trying to get on the assembly.

The tea at this resting place was poor and someone quoted the proverb, "Even the devil was
once eighteen and bad tea has its tolerable first cup." On going to the village office I found
that for a population of 2,000 there were, in addition to the village shrine, sixteen other
shrines and three Buddhist temples. Against fire there were four fire pumps and 155 "fire defenders."
A dozen of the young men of the village were serving in the army, four were home on furlough,
six were invalided and forty were of the reserve. As many as thirty-seven had medals. The doctors
were two in number and the midwives three. There was a sanitary committee of twenty-three members.
The revenue of the village was 5,740 yen. It had a fund of 740 yen "against time of famine."
The taxes paid were 2,330 yen for State tax, 2,460 yen for prefectural tax and 4,350 yen for
village tax. The village possessed two co-operative societies, a young men's association, a
Buddhist young men's association, a Buddhist young women's association, a society for the development
of knowledge, a society of the graduates of the primary school, two thrift organisations, a
society for "promoting knowledge and virtue," and an association the members of which "aimed
at becoming distinguished." There were in the village ninety subscribers to the Red Cross and
two dozen members of the national Patriotic Women's Association.

In the county through which we were moving there was gold, silver and copper mining.[124] Out
of its population of 36,000 only 632 were entitled to vote for an M.P.

We rested at a school where the motto was, "Even in this good reign I pray because I wish to
make our country more glorious." There were portraits of four deceased local celebrities and
of Peter the Great, Franklin, Lincoln, Commander Perry and Bismarck. Illustrated wall charts
showed how to sit on a school seat, how to identify poisonous plants and how to conform to
the requirements of etiquette. The following admonitions were also displayed--a copy of them
is given to each child, who is expected to read the twelve counsels every morning before coming
to school:

  1.--Do your own work and don't rely on others to do it.

  2.--Be ardent when you learn or play.

  3.--Endeavour to do away with your bad habits and cultivate good ones.

  4.--Never tell a lie and be careful when you speak.

  5.--Do what you think right in your heart and at the same time have
  good manners.

  6.--Overcome difficulties and never hold back from hard work.

  7.--Do not make appointments which you are uncertain to keep.

  8.--Do not carelessly lend or borrow.

  9.--Do not pass by another's difficulties and do not give another
  much trouble.

  10.--Be careful about things belonging to the public as well as
  about things belonging to yourself.

  11.--Keep the outside and inside of the school clean and also
  take care of waste paper.

  12.--Never play with a grumbling spirit.

There was stuck on the roofs of many houses a rod with a piece of white paper attached, a charm
against fire. One house so provided was next door to the fire station. Frequently we passed
a children's jizō or Buddha, comically decked in the hat and miscellaneous garments of youngsters
whose grateful mothers believed them to have been cured by the power of the deity.

Speaking of clothes, it was the hottest July weather and the natural garment was at most a
loin cloth. The women wore a piece of red or coloured cotton from their waist to their knees.
The backs of the men and women who were working in the open were protected by a flapping ricestraw
mat or by an armful of green stuff. The boys under ten or so were naked and so were many little
girls. But the influence of the Westernising period ideas of what was "decent" in the presence
of foreigners survives. So, whenever a policeman was near, people of all ages were to be seen
huddling on their kimonos. I was sorry for a merry group of boys and girls aged 12 or 13 who
in that torrid weather[125] were bathing at an ideal spot in the river and suddenly caught
sight of a policeman. It is deplorable that a consciousness of nakedness should be cultivated
when nakedness is natural, traditional and hygienic. (Even in the schools the girls are taught
to make their kimonos meet at the neck--with a pin![126]--much higher than they used to be
worn.) It is only fair to bear in mind, however, that some hurrying on of clothes by villagers
is done out of respect to the passing superior, before whom it is impolite to appear without
permission half dressed or wearing other than the usual clothing.

At a hot spring we found many patrons because, as I was told, "Ox-day is very suitable for
bathing." The old pre-Meiji days of the week were twelve: Rat-, Ox-, Tiger-, Hare-, Dragon-,
Snake-, Horse-, Sheep-, Monkey-, Fowl-, Dog-and Boar-day. When the Western seven days of the
week were adopted they were rendered into Japanese as: Sun, Moon, Fire, Water, Wood, Metal
and Earth, followed by the word meaning star or planet and day. For instance, Sunday is Nichi
(Sun) yo (star) bi (day), and Monday, Getsu (Moon) yo (planet) bi (day), or Nichi-yo-bi and
Getsu-yo-bi. For brevity the bi is often dropped off.

The headman of a village we passed through told me that the occasion of my coming was the first
on which English had been heard in those parts. Talking about the people of his village, he
said that there had been four divorces in the year. Once in four or five years a child was
born within a few months of marriage. In the whole county there had been among 310 young men
examined for the army only four cases of "disgraceful disease." There was no immoral woman
in the 75-miles-long valley. Elsewhere in the county many young men were in debt, but in the
headman's village no youth was without a savings-bank book. And the local men-folk "did not
use women's savings as in some places."

One shrine we passed seemed to be dedicated to the moon. Another was intended to propitiate
the horsefly. Several villages had boxes fastened on posts for the reception of broken glass.
As we approached one village I saw an inscription put up by the young men's association, "Good
Crops and Prosperity to the Village." When we came to the next village the schoolmaster was
responsible for an inscription, "Peace to the World and Safety to the State." In other places
I found young men's society notice boards giving information about the area of land in a village,
how it was cropped, the kind of crops, the area of forest, lists of famous places, etc.

In the gorges we rode over many suspension bridges and crossed the backbone of Japan in unforgettable
scenes of romantic beauty. From the craggy paths of our highlands, amid a wealth not only of
gorgeous flowers and greenery but of great velvety butterflies, we saw the far-off snow-clad
Japanese Alps.

At one of the schools where we lunched I noticed that the large wall maps were of Siam and
Malaya, Borneo, Australia and China (two). The portraits were of Florence Nightingale, Lincoln,
Napoleon and Christ as the Good Shepherd, the last named being "a present from a believer friend
of the schoolmaster."[127] This school closed at noon from July 10 to July 31, and had twenty
days' vacation in August and another twenty days in the rice-planting and busy sericultural
season. The sewing-room of the school was used in winter as a dormitory for boys who lived
at a distance. Accommodation for girls was provided in the village. The children brought their
rice with them. The products of the school farm were also eaten by the boarding pupils. It
was estimated that the cost of maintaining the girls was 10 sen a day. Three-fourths of this
expense was borne by the village. The regularity and strictness of the dormitory management
were found to have an excellent effect. At the winter school, an adjunct of the day school,
there was an attendance of a score of youths and sixty girls.

Speaking of a place where we stayed for the night, one who had a wide knowledge of rural Japan
said that he did not think that there was a lonelier spot where farming was carried on. There
was no market or fair for 80 or 90 miles and the little groups of houses were 2 or 3 miles
apart. In this district, it was explained, "the rich are not so rich and the poor are not so poor."

We passed somewhere a fine shrine for the welfare of horses. At a certain festival hundreds
of horses are driven down there to gallop round and round the sacred buildings. Thousands of
people attend this festival, but it was declared that no one was ever hurt by the horses.

The poetical names of country inns would make an interesting collection. I remember that it
was at "the inn of cold spring water" that the waiting-maid had never seen cow's milk. She
proved to be the daughter of the host and wore a gold ring by way of marking the fact. This
girl told us that on the banks of the river there was only one house in 70 miles. The village
was having the usual holiday to celebrate the end of the toilsome sericultural season.

On our way to the next village we met two far-travelled young women selling the dried seaweed
which, in many varieties, figures in the Japanese dietary.[128] (There are shops which sell
nothing but prepared seaweeds.) A notice board there informed us that the road was maintained
at the cost of the local young men's society. As we were on foot we felt grateful, for the
road was well kept. We passed for miles over planking hung on the cliff side or on roadway
carried on embankments. On the suspended pathways there was now and then a plank loose or broken,
and there was no rail between the pedestrian and the torrent dashing below. Where there was
embanked roadway it was almost always uphill and downhill and it frequently swung sharply round
the corner of a cliff. As the river increased in volume we saw many rafts of timber shooting
the rapids. At one place twenty-six raftsmen had been drowned. The remnants of two bridges
showed the force of the floods.

In this region the kurumaya were hard put to it at times and once a kuruma broke down. Its
owner cheerfully detached its broken axle and went off with it at a trot ten miles or so to
a blacksmith. Later he traversed the ten miles once more to refit his kuruma, afterwards coming
on fifteen more miles to our inn. The endurance and cheeriness of the kurumaya were surprising.
It was usually in face of their protests that we got out to ease them while going uphill. Every
morning they wanted to arrange to go farther than we thought reasonable. Each man had not only
his passenger but his passenger's heavy bag. One day we did thirty-six miles over rough roads.
The kurumaya proposed to cover fifty. They showed spirit, good nature and loyalty. The character
of their conversation is worth mentioning. At one point they were discussing the plays we had
witnessed, at other times the scenery, local legends, the best routes and the crops, material
condition and disposition of the villagers. Our kurumaya compared very favourably indeed with
men of an equal social class at home. Their manners were perfect. They stayed at the same inns
as we did--once in the next room--and behaved admirably. Every evening the men washed their
white cotton shorts and jackets--their whole costume except for a wide-brimmed sun hat and
straw waraji. Tied to the axle of each kuruma were several pairs of waraji, for on the rough
hill roads this simple form of footgear soon wears out. Discarded waraji are to be seen on
every roadside in Japan.

The inscriptions on some of the wayside stones we passed had been written by priests so ignorant
that the wording was either ridiculous or almost without meaning. But there was no difficulty
in deciphering an inscription on a stone which declared that it had been erected by a company
of Buddhists who claimed to have repeated the holy name of Amida 2,000,000 times. (The idea
is that salvation may be obtained by the repetition of the phrase Namu Amida Butsu.) A small
stone set up on a rock in the middle of paddy fields intimated that at that spot "people gathered
to see the moon one night every month." A third stone was dedicated to the monkey as the messenger
of a certain god, just as the fox is regarded as the messenger of Inari.

We saw during our journey large numbers of kiri (Paulownia) used for making geta and bride's
chests. Some farmers seem to plant kiri trees at the birth of a daughter so as to have wood
for her wedding chest or money for her outfit[129]. Kiri seems to be increasingly grown. On
the other hand in the same districts lacquer trees were now seldom planted. The farmers complained
that they were cheated by the collectors of lacquer who come round to cut the trees. The age
of cutting was given me as the eighth or ninth year, but poor farmers sometimes allowed a young
tree to be cut. A tree may be cut once a year for three or four years. After that it is useless
even for fuel, owing to the smell it gives off, and is often left standing. The old scarred
trunks, sometimes headless, suggested the tattooed faces and bodies of Maori veterans. As lacquer
is poisonous to the skin the wood calls for careful handling. I saw one of the itinerant lacquer
collectors, his hands wrapped in cotton, operating on a tree.

During a particularly hot run we had the good fortune to come on a soda-water spring from which
we all drank freely. A factory erected to tap the spring was in ruins. Evidently the cost of
carriage was prohibitive.

In these hills the rice was planted farther apart than is usual so that the sun might warm
the water. Here as elsewhere daikon were hung up to dry on walls and trees, and looked like
giant tallow candles. Below a bridge, which marked the village boundary, flags had been flung
down by way of keeping off epidemics. Evil spirits were warded off by special dances.

The porch of a little tea-house where we rested was covered with grapes. Soon after leaving
it we reached our destination for the night, a small town of houses of several storeys which
clustered on a hillside under the shadow of a Zen temple. Meat and eggs were forbidden to the
town, but as the residents were all Zen Buddhists the restriction was no hardship. There was
no cow in the place, but condensed milk was allowed. A man at the inn told me that he knew
of ten Shinto shrines which forbade the use of chickens and eggs in their localities. The view
from the temple, perched high on its rock above the wide riverway, was exceptionally fine.
Parties of boys and girls of thirteen paid visits to this temple "because thirteen is known
as a perilous age." The people of the vegetarian town, instead of feeding on the fish in the
river, fed them. I saw a shoal of fish being given scraps at the water edge.

As we went on our way and spoke of the bad roads it was suggested that in the old days roads
were purposely left uphill and downhill in order that the advance of enemies might be hindered.
We came to a dilapidated tea-house kept by an ugly old woman who showed a touching fondness
for a cat and a dog. From her shack we had a view of a volcano which had destroyed two villages
a few years before. Our hostess, who made much of us, said that the catastrophe had been preceded
by "horrible da-da-da-bang" sounds and lightnings, and that it was accompanied by "thunderbolts
and heavy thick smoke." The old woman had beheld "soil boiling and cracking."

Along our route we had more evidences of "fire farming." The procedure was to sow buckwheat
the first year and rape and millet the second year. In the cryptomeria forests there was a
variety which, when cut, sprouts from the ground and makes a new growth like an elm. One crop
we saw was ginseng, protected by low structures covered by matting.

At length we heard the distant sound of a locomotive whistle. We were approaching the newly
opened railway which was to take us the short run to the sea. Soon we were in a rather unkempt
village which had hardly recovered from its surprise at finding that it had a railway station.
We paid our kurumaya the sum contracted for and something over for their faithful service and
for their long return run, and having exchanged bows and cordial greetings, we left for a time
the glorified perambulators which a foreign missionary is supposed to have introduced half
a century ago. (The Japanese claim the honour of "inventing" the jinrikisha.)

FOOTNOTES:

[123] See Appendix XXXVII.

[124] See Appendix XXXVIII.

[125] In Tokyo one may sleep night after night in summer with no covering but the thinnest
loose cotton kimono and have an electric fan going within the mosquito curtain, and still feel
the heat.

[126] The kimono has no button, hook, tie, or fastening of any kind, and is kept in place by
the waist string and obi.

[127] It is an illustration of the difficulty of using a foreign symbolism that it is unlikely
that a single child in the school had ever seen a shepherd or a sheep.

[128] In 1918 the value of seaweed was returned at 13,600,000 yen.

[129] In fifteen years a kiri tree may be about 20 ft. high and 3 ft. in circumference and
be worth 30 yen. Kiri trees to the value of 3 million yen were felled in 1918.

CHAPTER XIV

SHRINES AND POETRY

(NIIGATA AND TOYAMA)

Sir, I am talking of the mass of the people.--JOHNSON

The railway made its way through snow stockades and through many tunnels which pierced cryptomeria-clad
hills. Eventually we descended to the wonderful Kambara plains, a sea of emerald rice. Fourteen
million bushels of rice are produced on the flats of Niigata prefecture, which grows more rice
than any other. The rice, grown under 800 different names, is officially graded into half a
dozen qualities. The problem of the high country we had come from was how to keep its paddy
fields from drying up; the problem of Niigata is chiefly to keep the water in its fields at
a sufficiently low level. Almost every available square yard of the prefecture is paddy.

At Gosen there were depressing-looking weaving sheds, but the Black Country created by the
oil fields farther on was in even more striking contrast with the beautiful region we had left.
The petroleum yield was 65 million gallons, and the smell of the oil went with us to the capital
city.

Niigata has a dark reputation for exporting farmers' daughters to other parts of Japan, but
I have also heard that the percentage of attendance made by the children at the primary schools
of the prefecture is higher than anywhere else. Like Amsterdam, Niigata is a city of bridges.
There must be 200 of them. The big timber bridge across the estuary is nearly half a mile long.
One finds in Niigata a Manchester-like spirit of business enterprise. Our hotel was excellent.

Because they speak with all sorts of people and hear a great deal of conversation the blind
amma are full of interesting gossip. A clever amma who ran his knuckles up and down my back
said that farm land a good way from Niigata was sold at from 200 yen to 300 yen and sometimes
at 400 yen per quarter acre.[130] Prefectural officials who called on me explained that drainage
operations on a large scale were being completed. The water of which the low land was relieved
would be used to extend farming in the hills. An effort was also being made to develop stock-keeping
in the uplands. It was proposed "to supply every farmer with a scheme for increasing his live
stock." The optimistic authorities were particularly attracted by the notion of keeping sheep.
The plan was to arrange for co-operation in hill pasturing and in wool and meat production.
Mutton was as yet unknown, however, in Niigata. (The mutton eaten by foreigners in Japan usually
comes from Shanghai.)

I went into the country to a little place where the natural gas from the soil was used by the
farmers for lighting and cooking. I heard talk in this village and in others of the influence
of the local army reservists' society. "Young men on returning from their army service are
always influential. They are much respected by the youths and are talkative indeed in the village
assembly."

As our host was the village headman he kindly brought the assembly together to meet me. I asked
the assembled fathers about two stones erected in the village. Somebody had kindled a fire
of rice screenings near one of them and it had been scorched. On the other stone a kimono had
been hung to dry. The explanation was that the stones were monuments not shrines, and that
the people who had set them up had left the district. The stones were no doubt respected while
the donors lived. It was not uncommon for a pilgrim to a shrine to erect a memorial on his
return home.

In this village fifty Shinto shrines of the fifth class had been closed under the influence
of the Home Office. They were shrines which had no offering from the village to support them.
They had only a few worshippers. All the remaining shrines were of the fifth class but one,
and it was of the fourth class. In the county there was a second-class shrine and in the whole
prefecture there were two or three first-class shrines. The villagers had agreed among themselves
which of their own shrines should be made an end of. A shrine which was dispensed with was
burnt. The stone steps approaching it were also removed. Burning was not sacrilege but purification.
On the closing of a shrine there might be complaints on the part of some old man or woman,
but the majority of people approved. One Shinto shrine guardian lived at the fourth-class shrine
and conducted a ceremony at the sixteen fifth-class shrines. Of the twenty Buddhist temples
in the village (300 families cultivating an average of a chō apiece), twelve were Hokke, five
Shingon, two Shinshu and one Zen. All the priests were married.[131]

I have used the phrase "Buddhist temple" loosely and may do so again, for it conveys an idea
which "Buddhist church" does not. A temple (dō) is properly an edifice in which a Buddha is
enshrined. This building is not for services or burial ceremonies or anniversary offerings
for departed souls. It may or may not have a guardian (domori). He is never a priest with a
shaven head. A Buddhist church (tera) is a place where adherents go as anniversaries come round
or for sermons. It possesses a priest. There is a considerable difference in the style of Buddhist
edifices according to their denomination--Zen buildings are particularly plain--but all are
more elaborate than Shinto shrines.

A large Shinto shrine is called yashiro (house of god); a small one hokora. A hokora is transportable.
Originally it was and in some places it still is a perishable wooden shrine thatched with reed
or grass straw which is renewed at the spring and autumn festivals. It may be less than two
feet high and may be made of stone or wood. But it cannot be regarded as a building. Inside
there are gohei (upright sticks with paper streamers). In a rich man's house a hokora may be
seven or eight feet high or bigger than the smallest yashiro, and may be embellished with colour
and metal.

Returning to Buddhism, if a priest has a son he may be succeeded by him. But many Buddhist
priests marry late and have no children. Or their children do not want to be priests. So the
priest adopts a successor. Sometimes he maintains an orphan as acolyte or coadjutor. During
the day this assistant goes to school. In the evenings and during holidays he is taught to
become a priest. When the primary-school education is finished the lad may be sent by his patron,
if he is well enough off, to a school of his sect at Kyoto or Tokyo.

My travelling companion spoke of the infiltration of new ideas in town and country. "A mixing
is taking place in the heart and head of everybody who is not a bigot. But I don't know that
some kinds of Christianity are to do much for us. I heard the other day of a Japanese Presbyterian
who was preaching with zest about hell fire. Generally speaking, our old men are looking to
the past and our young men are aspiring, but not all. Some are content if they can live uncriticised
by their neighbours. When they become old they may begin to think of a future life and visit
temples. But as young men their thoughts are fully occupied by things of this world."

In the office of the headman whom I mentioned a page or so back, there was behind his chair
a kakemono which read, "Reflecting and Examining One's Inner Spirit." We passed a night in
the old house of this headman, who was a poet and a country gentleman of a delightful type.
Being an eldest son he had married young, and his relations with his eldest boy, a frank and
clever lad, were pleasant to see. The garden, instead of being shut in by a wall with a tiled
coping or by a palisade of bamboo stems in the ordinary way, was open towards the rice fields,
a scene of restful beauty. As our kuruma drew near the house, the steward appeared, a broom
in his hand. Running for a short distance before us until we entered the courtyard, he symbolically
swept the ground according to old custom. After a delightful hot bath and an elaborate supper,
which my fellow traveller afterwards assured me had meant a week's work for the women of the
household--snapping turtle and choice bamboo shoots were among the honourable dishes--we gathered
at the open side of the room overlooking the garden. Fireflies glowed in the paddies and in
the garden two stone lanterns had been lighted. One of them, which had a crescent-shaped opening
cut in it, gleamed like the moon; the other, which had a small serrated opening, represented
a star.

I paid a visit to the local agricultural co-operative store which did business under the motto,
"Faith is the Mother of all Virtue." More than half the money taken at the store was for artificial
manures. Next came purchases of imported rice, for, like the Danish peasants who export their
butter and eat margarine, the local peasants sold their own rice and bought the Saigon variety.
The society sold in a year a considerable quantity of saké. Stretched over the doorway of the
building in which the goods of the society were stored were the rope and paper streamers which
are seen before Shinto shrines and consecrated places. The society had a large flag post for
weather signals, a white flag for a fine day, a red one for cloudy weather and a blue one for rain.

I brought away from this village a calendar of agricultural operations with poems or mottoes
for each month, in the collection of which I suspect the poet had a hand:

January: Future of the day determined in the morning.

February: The voice of one reading a farming book coming
  from the snow-covered window.

March: Grafting these young trees, thinking of the days
  of my grandchildren.

April: Digging the soil of the paddy field, sincerity
  concentrated on the edge of the mattock.

May: Returning home with the dim moonlight glinting
  on the edges of our mattocks.

June: Boundless wealth stored up by gracious heaven:
  dig it out with your mattock, take it away with your
  sickle.

July: Weeding the paddy field[132] in a happiness and
  contentment which townspeople do not know.

August: Standing peasant worthier than resting rich man.

September: Ears of rice bend their heads as they ripen.
  (An allusion to wisdom and meekness.)

October: White steam coming out of a manure house on
 an autumn morning.

November: Moon clear and bright above neatly divided
  paddy fields.

December: All the members of the family smiling and
  celebrating the year's end, piling up many bales of rice.

In this district I first noticed cotton. It is sown in June and is picked from time to time
between early September and early November. Cotton has been grown for centuries in Japan, but
nowadays it is produced for household weaving only, the needs of the factories being met by
foreign imports. The plant has a beautiful yellow flower with a dark brown eye.

In one village I asked how many people smoked. The answer was 60 per cent. of the men and 10
per cent. of the women. In the same village, which did not seem particularly well off, I was
told that 200 daily papers might be taken among 1,300 families. Eighty per cent. of the local
papers were dailies and cost 35 sen a month. Tokyo papers cost 45 or 50 sen a month.

I visited a school, half of which was in a building adjoining a temple and half in the temple
itself. In the same county there were two other schools housed in temples. The small Shinto
shrine in this temple held the Imperial Rescript on education. On one side of it was an ugly
American clock and on the other a thermometer. In the temple (Zen) two Tokyo University students
were staying in ideal conditions for vacation study.

I saw at one place a very tired, unslept-looking peasant with a small closed tub carried over
his shoulder by means of a pole. On the tub was tied a white streamer, such as is supplied
at a Shinto shrine, and a branch of sakaki (Eurya ochnacea, the sacred tree). The traveller
was the delegate of his village. He had been to a mountain shrine in the next prefecture and
the tub held the water he had got there. The idea is that if he succeeds in making the journey
home without stopping anywhere his efforts will result in rain coming down at his village.
If he should stop at any place to rest or sleep, and there should be the slightest drip from
his tub there, then the rain will be procured not for his own village but for the community
in which he has tarried. So our voyager had walked not only for a whole day but through the
night. I heard of a rain delegate who had stamina enough to keep walking for three or four
days without sleeping.

Another way of obtaining rain has principally to do with tugging at a rock with a straw rope.
Then there is the plan already referred to of tying straw ropes to a stone image and flinging
it into the river, saying, "If you don't give us rain you will stay there; if you do give us
rain you shall come out." There is also the method of paying someone liberally to throw the
split open head of an ox into the deep pool of a waterfall. "Then the water god being much
angry," said my informant, "he send his dragon to that village, so storm and rain come necessarily."
Yet another plan is for the villagers simply to ascend to a particular mountain top crying,
"Give us rain! Give us rain!" While dealing with these magic arts I may reproduce the following
rendering of a printed "fortune" which I received from a rural shrine: "Wish to agree but now
somewhat difficult. Wait patiently for a while. Do nothing wrong. Wait for the spring to come.
Everything will be completed and will become better. Endeavouring to accomplish it soon will
be fruitless."

It was a student of agricultural conditions, in Toyama who gossiped to me of the large expenditure
by farmers of that prefecture on the marriage of their daughters. "It is not so costly as the
boys' education and it procures a good reception for the girl from father-and mother-in-law.
The pinch comes when there is a second and third daughter, for the average balance in hand
of a peasant proprietor in this prefecture at the end of the year is only 48 yen. Borrowing
is necessary and I heard of one bankruptcy. The Governor tried to stop the custom but it is
too old. They say Toyama people spend more proportionately than the people in other prefectures.
In general they do not keep a horse or ox. I heard of young farmers stealing each other's crops.
Parents are very severe upon a daughter who becomes ill-famed, for when they seek a husband
for her they must spend more. So mostly daughters keep their purity before marriage. But I
know parts of Japan where a large number of the girls have ceased to be virtuous. Concerning
the priests, those of Toyama are the worst. A peasant proprietor with seven of a family and
a balance at the end of the year of 100 yen must pay 30 to 40 yen to the temple. Some priests
threaten the farmer, saying that if he does not pay as much as is imposed on him by the collector
an inferior Buddha will go past his door. Priests want to keep farmers foolish as long as they
can."

FOOTNOTES:

[130] For prices of land, see Appendix LIV.

[131] There are about 116,000 Shinto shrines of all grades and 14,000 priests, and 71,000 temples
and 51,000 priests. There are about a dozen Shinto sects and about thirty Buddhist sects and
sub-sects.

[132] It is done by wading in leech-infested water under a burning sun and pulling out the
weeds by hand and pushing them down into the sludge.

CHAPTER XV

THE NUN'S CELL

(NAGANO)

It is one more incitement to a man to do well.--BOSWELL

Eighty per cent. of Nagano is slope. Hence its dependence on sericulture. The low stone-strewn
roofs of the houses, the railway snow shelters and the zig-zag track which the train takes,
hint at the climatic conditions in winter time. Despite the snow--ski-ing has been practised
for some years--the summer climate of Nagano has been compared with that of Champagne and there
is one vineyard of 60,000 vines.

I was invited to join a circle of administrators who were discussing rural morality and religion.
One man said that there was not 20 per cent. of the villages in which the priests were "active
for social development." Another speaker of experience declared that "the four pillars of an
agricultural village" were "the sonchō (headman), the schoolmaster, the policeman and the most
influential villager." He went on: "In Europe religion does many things for the support and
development of morality, but we look to education, for it aims not at only developing intelligence
and giving knowledge, but at teaching virtue and honesty. But there is something beyond that.
Thousands of our soldiers died willingly in the Russian war. There must have been something
at the bottom of their hearts. That something is a certain sentiment which penetrates deeply
the characters of our countrymen. Our morality and customs have it in their foundations. This
spirit is Yamato damashii (Japanese spirit). It appeared among our warriors as bushido (the
way of the soldier), but it is not the monopoly of soldiers. Every Japanese has some of this
spirit. It is the moral backbone of Japan."

"I should like to say," another speaker declared, "that I read many European and American books,
but I remain Japanese. Mr. Uchimura sees the darkest side of Buddhism and Mr. Lafcadio Hearn
expected too much from it. 'So mysterious,' Hearn said, but it is not so mysterious to us.
We must be grateful to him for seeing something of the essence of our life. Sometimes, however,
we may be ashamed of his beautifying sentences. I am a modern man, but I am not ashamed when
my wife is with child to pray that it may be healthy and wise. It is possible for us Japanese
to worship some god somewhere without knowing why. The poet says, 'I do not know the reason
of it, but tears fall down from my eyes in reverence and gratitude.' I suppose this is natural
theology. The proverb says, 'Even the head of a sardine is something if believed in.' I attach
more importance to a man's attitude to something higher than himself than to the thing which
is revered by him. Whether a man goes to Nara and Kyoto or to a Roman Catholic or a Methodist
church he can come home very purified in heart."

"Some foreigners have thought well to call us 'half civilised,'" the speaker went on. "Can
it be that uncivilised is something distasteful to or not understood by Europeans and Americans?
We have the ambition to erect some system of Eastern civilisation. It is possible that we may
have it in our minds to call some things in Europe 'half civilised.' Surely the barbarians
are usually the people other than ourselves. When the townsman goes to the country he says
the people are savages. But the countryman finds his fellow-savages quite decent people."

"Some time ago," broke in a professor, "I read a novel by René Bazin and I could not but think
how much alike were our peasants and the peasants of the West."

The previous speaker resumed: "The other day a foreigner laughed in my presence at our old
art of incense burning and actually said that we were deficient in the sense of smell. I told
him that fifty years ago our samurai class, in excusing their anti-foreign manifestations,
said they could not endure the smell of foreigners, and that to this day our peasants may be
heard to say of Western people, 'They smell; they smell of butter and fat.'"

In the city of Nagano early in the morning I went to a large Buddhist temple where the authorities
had kindly given me special facilities to see the treasures--alas! all in a wooden structure.
A strange thing was the preservation untouched of the room in which the Emperor Meiji rested
thirty years ago. May oblivion be one day granted to that awful chenille table cover and those
appalling chairs which outrage the beautiful woodwork and the golden tatami of a great building!
At the entrance of the temple priests in a kind of open office were reading the newspaper,
playing gō or smoking. More pleasing was the sight of matting spread right round the temple
below its eaves, in order that weary pilgrims might sleep there, and the spectacle of travel-stained
women tranquilly sleeping or suckling their infants before the shrine itself. There is a pitch
dark underground passage below the floor round the foundations of the great Buddha, and if
the circuit be made and the lock communicating with the entrance door to the sacred figure
be fortunately touched on the way, paradise, peasants believe, is assured. I made the circuit
a few moments after an old woman and found the lock, and on returning to the temple with the
rustic dame knelt with her before the shrine as the curtain which veils the big Buddha was
withdrawn. The face of one wooden figure in the temple had been worn, like that of many another
in Japan, with the stroking that it had received from the ailing faithful.

I had the privilege of visiting the adjoining nunnery. As I was specially favoured by a general
admission, I asked to be permitted to see some nuns' cells. They showed a Buddhist advance
on Western ideas. The word "cells" was a misnomer for beautiful little flower-adorned rooms
of a cheerful Japanese house. The fragile, wistful nun who was so kind as to speak with me
had a consecrated expression. Her dress was white, and over it was brocade in a perfect combination
of green and cream. Her head was shaven; her hands, which continually told her beads, were
hidden. Religious services are conducted and sermons are delivered here and in other nunneries
by the nuns themselves. I could not but be sorry for some girl children who had become nuns
on their relatives' or guardians' decision. Adult newcomers are given a month in which, if
they wish, they may repent them of their vows; but what of the children? The head of this nunnery
was a member of the Imperial family. The institution, like the temple from which I had just
come, stores thousands of wooden tablets to the memory of the dead. There are many little receptacles
in which the hair, the teeth or the photographs of believers are preserved. I found that both
at the nunnery and the temple a practical interest was being shown in the reformation of ex-criminals.

While in the highlands of Nagano I spent a night at Karuizawa, a hill resort at which tired
missionaries and their families, not only from all parts of Japan but from China, gather in
the summer months beyond the reach of the mosquito.[133] I stayed in the summer cottage of
my travelling companion's brother-in-law. The family consisted of a reserved, cultivated man
with a pretty wife of what I have heard a foreigner call "the maternal, domestic type." In
their owlishness newcomers to the country are inclined to commiserate all Japanese housewives
as the "slaves of their husbands." They would have been sadly wrong in such thoughts about
this happy wife and mother. The eldest boy, a wholesome-looking lad, had just passed through
the middle school on his way to the university, and spoke to me in simple English with that
air of responsibility which the eldest son so soon acquires in Japan. His brothers and sisters
enjoyed a happy relation with him and with each other. The whole family was merry, unselfish
and, in the best sense of the word, educated. As we knelt on our zabuton we refreshed ourselves
with tea and the fine view of the active volcano, Asama, and chatted on schools, holidays,
books, the country and religion. After a while, a little to my surprise, the mother in her
sweet voice gravely said that if I would not mind at all she would like very much to ask me
two questions. The first was, "Are the people who go to the Christian church here all Christians?"
and the second, "Are Christians as affectionate as Japanese?"

Karuizawa, which is full of ill-nourished, scabby-headed, "bubbly-nosed"[134] Japanese children,
is an impoverished place on one of the ancient highways. We took ourselves along the road until
we reached at a slightly higher altitude the decayed village of Oiwaké. When the railway came
near it finished the work of desolation which the cessation of the daimyos' progresses to Yedo
(now Tokyo) had begun half a century ago. In the days of the Shogun three-quarters of the 300
houses were inns. Now two-thirds of the houses have become uninhabitable, or have been sold,
taken down and rebuilt elsewhere. The Shinto shrines are neglected and some are unroofed, the
Zen temple is impoverished, the school is comfortless and a thousand tombstones in the ancient
burying ground among the trees are half hidden in moss and undergrowth.

The farm rents now charged in Oiwaké had not been changed for thirty, forty or fifty years.
In the old inn there was a Shinto shrine, about 12 ft. long by nearly 2 ft. deep, with latticed
sliding doors. It contained a dusty collection of charms and memorials dating back for generations.
Outside in the garden at the spring I found an irregular row of half a dozen rather dejected-looking
little stone hokora about a foot high. Some had faded gohei thrust into them, but from the
others the clipped paper strips had blown away. At the foot of the garden I discovered a somewhat
elaborate wooden shrine in a dilapidated state. "Few country people," someone said to me, "know
who is enshrined at such a place." It is generally thought that these shrines are dedicated
to the fox. But the foxes are merely the messengers of the shrine, as is shown by the figures
of crouching or squatting foxes at either side. A well-known professor lately arrived at the
conviction that the god worshipped at such shrines is the god of agriculture. He went so far
as to recommend the faculty of agriculture at Tokyo university to have a shrine erected within
its walls to this divinity, but the suggestion was not adopted.

In the course of another chat with the old host of the inn he referred to the time, close on
half a century ago, when 3,000 hungry peasants marched through the district demanding rice.
They did no harm. "They were satisfied when they were given food; the peasants at that time
were heavily oppressed." To-day the people round about look as if they were oppressed by the
ghosts of old-time tyrants. But there is "something that doth linger" of self-respect. When
we left on our way to Tokyo I gave the man who brought our bags a mile in a barrow to the station
40 sen. He returned 10 sen, saying that 30 sen was enough.

FOOTNOTES:

[133] Although, as has been seen, the rural problems under investigation in this book are inextricably
bound up with religion, limits of space make it necessary to reserve for another volume the
consideration of the large and complex question of missionary work.

[134] As to the "bubbly-nosed callant," to quote the description given of young Smollett, nasal
unpleasantness seems to be popularly regarded as a sign of health. The constant sight of it
is one of the minor discomforts of travel.

IN AND OUT OF THE SILK PREFECTURE[135]

CHAPTER XVI

PROBLEMS BEHIND THE PICTURESQUE

(SAITAMA, GUMMA, NAGANO AND YAMANASHI)

A foreigner who comes among us without prejudice may speak his mind freely.--GOLDSMITH

I went back to Nagano to visit the silk industrial regions. My route lay through the prefectures
of Saitama and Gumma. I left Tokyo on the last day of June. Many farmers were threshing their
barley. On the dry-land patches, where the grain crop had been harvested, soya bean, sown between
the rows of grain long before harvest, was becoming bushier now that it was no longer overshadowed.
Maize in most places was about a foot high, but where it had been sown early was already twice
that height. The sweet potato had been planted out from its nursery bed for weeks. Here and
there were small crops of tea which had been severely picked for its second crop. I noticed
melons, cucumbers and squashes, and patches of the serviceable burdock. Many paddy farmers
had water areas devoted to lotus, but the big floating leaves were not yet illumined by the
mysterious beauty of the honey-scented flowers.

In order to imagine the scene on the rice flats, the reader must not think of the glistering
paddy fields[136] as stretching in an unbroken monotonous series over the plain. Occasionally
a rocky patch, outcropping from the paddy tract, made a little island of wood. Sometimes it
was a sacred grove in which one caught a glimpse of a Shinto shrine or the head stones of the
dead. Sometimes there was a little clump of cropped tree greenery which kept a farmhouse cool
in summer and, at another time of the year, sheltered from the wind. Few householders were
too poor or too busy to be without their little patch of flowers.

Before the train climbed out of the Kwanto plain temperature of not far below 100° F. the planting
of rice seemed to be almost an enviable occupation. The peasant had his great umbrella-shaped
straw hat, sometimes an armful of green stuff tied on his back, and a delicious feeling of
being up to the knees in water or mud on a hot day-one recalled the mud baths of the West-when
the alternative was walking on a dusty road, digging on the sun-baked upland or perspiring
in a house or the train.

With the rise in the level a few mulberries began to appear and gradually they occupied a large
part of the holdings. Sometimes the mulberries were cultivated as shoots from a stump a little
above ground level, and sometimes as a kind of small standard. As mulberry culture increased,
the silk factories' whitewashed cocoon stores and the tall red and black iron chimneys of the
factories themselves became more numerous. It is a pity that the silk factory is not always
so innocent-looking inside as the pure white exterior of its stores might suggest. It is certain
that the overworked girl operatives, sitting at their steaming basins, drawing the silk from
the soaked cocoons, were glad to find the weather conditions such that they could have the
sides of their reeling sheds removed.

At many of the railway stations there were stacks of large, round, flat bean cakes, for the
farmer feeds his "cake" to his fields direct, not through the medium of cattle. Although a
paddy receives less agreeable nutritive materials than bean cake, the extensive use of this
cake must be comforting to a little school of rural reformers in the West. These ardent vegetarians
have refused to listen to the allegation that vegetarianism was impossible because without
meat-eating there would be no cattle and therefore no nitrogen for the fields.

It was not only the bean cakes at the stations which caught my attention but the extensive
use of lime. Square miles of paddy field were white with powdered lime, scattered before the
planting of the rice, an operation which in the higher altitudes would not be finished until
well on in July.

A contented and prosperous countryside was no doubt the impression reflected to many passengers
in the train that sunny day. But I knew how closely pressed the farmers had been by the rise
in prices of many things that they had got into the way of needing. I had learnt, too, the
part that superstition[137] as well as simple faith played in the lives of the country folk.
When, however, I pondered the way in which the rural districts had been increasingly invaded
by factories run under the commercial sanctions of our eighteen-forties, I asked myself whether
there might not be superstitions of the economic world as well as of religious and social life.

I heard a Japanese speak of being well treated at inns in the old days for 20 sen a night.
It should be remembered, however, that there is a system not only of tipping inn servants but
of tipping the inn. The gift to the inn is called chadai and guests are expected to offer a
sum which has some relation to their position and means and the food and treatment they expect.
I have stayed at inns where I have paid as much chadai as bill. To pay 50 per cent. of the
bill as chadai is common. The idea behind chadai is that the inn-keeper charges only his out-of-pocket
expenses and that therefore the guest naturally desires to requite him. In acknowledgment of
chadai the inn-keeper brings a gift to the guest at his departure--fans, pottery, towels, picture
postcards, fruit or slabs of stiff acidulated fruit jelly (in one inn of grapes and in another
of plums) laid between strips of maize leaf. The right time to give chadai is on entering the
hotel, after the "welcome tea." In handing money to any person in Japan, except a porter or
a kurumaya, the cash or notes are wrapped in paper.

On the journey from the city of Nagano to Matsumoto, wonderful views were unfolded of terraced
rice fields, and, above these, of terraced fields of mulberry. How many hundred feet high the
terraces rose as the train climbed the hills I do not know, but I have had no more vivid impression
of the triumphs of agricultural hydraulic engineering. We were seven minutes in passing through
one tunnel at a high elevation.

I spoke in the train with a man who had a dozen chō under grapes, 20 per cent. being European
varieties and 80 per cent. American. He said that some of the people in his district were "very
poor." Some farmers had made money in sericulture too quickly for it to do them good. He volunteered
the opinion, in contrast with the statement made to me during our journey to Niigata, that
the people of the plains were morally superior to the people of the mountains. The reason he
gave was that "there are many recreations in the plains whereas in the mountains there is only
one." In most of the mountain villages he knew three-quarters of the young men had relations
with women, mostly with the girls of the village or the adjoining village. He would not make
the same charge against more than ten per cent. of the young men of the plains, and "it is
after all with teahouse girls." He thought that there were "too many temples and too many sects,
so the priests are starved."

An itinerant agricultural instructor in sericulture who joined in our conversation was not
much concerned by the plight of the priests. "The causes of goodness in our people," he said,
"are family tradition and home training. Candidly, we believe our morals are not so bad on
the whole. We are now putting most stress on economic development. How to maintain their families
is the question that troubles people most. With that question unsolved it is preaching to a
horse to preach morality. We can always find high ideals and good leaders when economic conditions
improve. The development of morality is our final aim, but it is encouraged for six years at
the primary school. The child learns that if it does bad things it will be laughed at and despised
by the neighbours and scolded by its parents. We are busy with the betterment of economic conditions
and questions about morality and religion puzzle us."

When I reached Matsumoto I met a rural dignitary who deplored the increasing tendency of city
men to invest in rural property. "Sometimes when a peasant sells his land he sets up as a money-lender."
I was told that nearly every village had a sericultural co-operative association, which bought
manures, mulberry trees and silk-worm eggs, dried cocoons and hatched eggs for its members
and spent money on the destruction of rats. Of recent years the county agricultural association
had given 5 yen per tan to farmers who planted improved sorts of mulberry. About half the farmers
in the county had manure houses. Some 800 farmers in the county kept a labourer.

I went to see a gunchō and read on his wall: "Do not get angry. Work! Do not be in a hurry,
yet do not be lazy." "These being my faults," he explained, "I specially wrote them out." There
was also on his wall a kakemono reading: "At twenty I found that even a plain householder may
influence the future of his province; at thirty that he may influence the future of his nation;
at forty that he may influence the future of the whole world." Below this stirring sentiment
was a portrait of the writer, a samurai scholar, from a photograph taken with a camera which
he had made himself. He lived in the last period of the Shogunate and studied Dutch books.
He was killed by an assassin at the instance, it was believed, of the Shogun.

One of the noteworthy things of Matsumoto was the agricultural association's market. Another
piece of organisation in that part of the world was fourteen institutes where girls were instructed
in the work of silk factory hands. The teachers' salaries were paid by the factories. So were
also the expenses of the silk experts of the local authorities. On the day I left the city
the daily paper contained an announcement of lectures on hygiene to women on three successive
days, "the chief of police to be present." This paper was demanding the exemption of students
from the bicycle tax, the rate of which varies in different prefectures.

A young man was brought to see me who was specialising in musk melons. He said that the Japanese
are gradually getting out of their partiality for unripe fruit.

On our way to the Suwas we saw many wretched dwellings. The feature of the landscape was the
silk factories' tall iron chimneys, ordinarily black though sometimes red, white or blue.

It is not commonly understood that Japanese lads by the time they "graduate" from the middle
school into the higher school have had some elementary military training. A higher-school youth
knows how to handle a rifle and has fired twice at a target. At Kami Suwa the problem of how
middle-class boys should procure economical lodging while attending their classes had been
solved by self-help. An ex-scholar of twenty had managed to borrow 4,000 yen and had proceeded
to build on a hillside a dormitory accommodating thirty-six boarders. Lads did the work of
levelling the ground and digging the well. The frugal lines on which the lodging-house was
conducted by the lads themselves may be judged from the fact that 5 yen a month covered everything.
Breakfast consisted of rice, miso soup and pickles. Cooking and the emptying of the benjo[138]
were done by the lads in turn. A kitchen garden was run by common effort. Among the many notices
on the walls was one giving the names of the residents who showed up at 5 o'clock in the morning
for a cold bath and fencing. I also saw the following instruction written by the founder of
the house, which is read aloud every morning by each resident in turn:

Be independent and pure and strive to make your characters more beautiful. Expand your thought.
Help each other to accomplish your ambitions. Be active and steady and do not lose your self-control.
Be faithful to friends and righteous and polite. Be silent and keep order. Do not be luxurious
(sic). Keep everything clean. Pay attention to sanitation. Do not neglect physical exercises.
Be diligent and develop your intelligence.

The borrower of the 4,000 yen with which the institution was built managed to pay it back within
seven years with interest, out of the subscriptions of residents and ex-residents.

An agricultural authority whom I met spoke of "farming families living from hand to mouth and
their land slipping into the possession of landlords"; also of a fifth of the peasants in the
prefecture being tenants. A young novelist who had been wandering about the Suwa district had
been impressed by the grim realities of life in poor farmers' homes and cited facts on which
he based a low view of rural morality.

Suwa Lake lies more than 3,500 ft. above sea level and in winter is covered with skaters. The
country round about is remarkable agriculturally for the fact that many farmers are able to
lead into their paddies not only warm water from the hot springs but water from ammonia springs,
so economising considerably in their expenditure on manure. A simple windmill for lifting the
fertilising water is sold for only 4 yen.

We went to Kōfu, the capital of Yamanashi prefecture, through many mountain tunnels and ravines.
Entrancing is the just word for this region in the vicinity of the Alps. But joy in the beauty
through which we passed is tinged for the student of rural life by thoughts of the highlander's
difficulties in getting a living in spots where quiet streams may become in a few hours ungovernable
torrents. I remember glimpses of grapes and persimmons, of parties of middle-school boys tramping
out their holiday--every inn reduces its terms for them--and of half a dozen peasant girls
bathing in a shaded stream. But there were less pleasing scenes: hills deforested and paddies
wrecked by a waste of stones and gravel flung over them in time of flood. Here and there the
indomitable farmers, counting on the good behaviour of the river for a season or two, were
endeavouring, with enormous labour, to resume possession of what had been their own. The spectacle
illustrated at once their spirit and their industry and their need of land. At night we slept
at Kōfu at "the inn of greeting peaks." In the morning a Governor with imagination told me
of the prefecture's gallant enterprises in afforestation and river embanking at expenditures
which were almost crippling.

FOOTNOTES:

[135] The three leading silk prefectures are in order: Nagano, Fukushima and Gumma.

[136] At this time of the year, when the rice plants are small, the water in the paddies is
still conspicuous.

[137] An old Japan hand once counselled me that "the thing to find out in sociological enquiries
is not people's religions but their superstitions."

[138] See Appendix IV.

CHAPTER XVII

THE BIRTH, BRIDAL AND DEATH OF THE SILK-WORM

(NAGANO)

The mulberry leaf knoweth not that it shall be silk.--Arab proverb

One acre in every dozen in Japan produces mulberry leaves for feeding the silk-worms which
two million farming families--more than a third of the farming families of the country--painstakingly
rear.

But the mulberry is not the only mark of a sericultural district. Its mark may be seen in the
tall chimneys of the factories and in the structure of the farmers' houses. Breeders of silk-worms
are often well enough off to have tiled instead of thatched roofs; they have frequently two
storeys to their dwellings; and they have almost always a roof ventilator so that the vitiated
air from the hibachi-heated silk-worm chambers may be carried off. Yet another sign of sericulture
being a part of the agricultural activities of a district is its prosperity. Silk-worms produce
the most valuable of all Japanese exports. Japan sends abroad more raw silk than any other
country.[139]

It is in the middle of the country that sericulture chiefly nourishes. The smallest output
of raw silk is from the most northerly prefecture and from the prefecture in the extreme south-west
of the mainland. But human aptitude plays its part as well as climate. The Japanese hand is
a wonderful piece of mechanism--look at the hands of the next Japanese you meet--and in sericulture
its delicate touch is used to the utmost advantage.

The gains of sericulture are not made without corresponding sacrifices. Silk-worm raising is
infinitely laborious. The constant picking of leaves, the bringing of them home and the chopping
and supplying of these leaves to the smallest of all live stock and the maintenance of a proper
temperature in the rearing-chamber day and night mean unending work. The silk-worms may not
be fed less than four or five times in the day; in their early life they are fed seven or eight
times. This is the feeding system for spring caterpillars. Summer and autumn breeds must have
two or three more meals. The men and women who attend to them, particularly the women, are
worn out by the end of the season. "The women have only three hours' rest in the twenty-four
hours," I remember someone saying. "They never loose their obi."

When the caterpillars emerge from the tiny, pin-head-like eggs of the silk-worm moth they are
minute creatures. Therefore the mulberry leaves are chopped very fine indeed. They are chopped
less and less fine as the silk-worms grow, until finally whole leaves and leaves adhering to
the shoots are given. Some rearers are skilful enough to supply from the very beginning leaves
or leaves still on the shoots. The caterpillars live in bamboo trays or "beds" on racks. In
the house of one farmer I found caterpillars about three-quarters of an inch long occupying
fifteen trays. When the silk-worms grew larger they would occupy two hundred trays.

The eggs, when not produced on the farm, are bought adhering to cards about a foot square.
There are usually marked on these cards twenty-eight circles about 2 ins. in diameter. Each
circle is covered with eggs. The eggs come to be arranged in these convenient circles because,
as will be explained later on, the moths have been induced to lay within bottomless round tins
placed on the circles on the cards. The eggs are sticky when laid and therefore adhere. In
a year 35,000,000 cards, containing about a billion eggs, are produced on some 10,000 egg-raising
farms.

The eggs--they are called "seed"--are hatched in the spring (end of April--as soon as the first
leaves of the mulberry are available--to the middle of May), summer (June and July) and autumn
(August and October). It takes from three to seven days--according to temperature--for the
"seed" to hatch, and from twenty to thirty-two days--according to temperature--for the silk-worms
to reach maturity. Half the hatching is done in spring. In one farmer's house I visited in
the spring season I found that he had hatched fifty cards of "seed." From the birth of the
caterpillars to the formation of cocoons the casualties must be reckoned at ten per cent. daily.
Not more than eighty-five per cent. of the cocoons which are produced are of good quality.
The remainder are misshapen or contain dead chrysalises. As there are more than a thousand
breeds of silk-worm, all cocoons are not of the same shape and colour. Some are oval; some
are shaped like a monkey nut. Most are white but some are yellow and others yellow tinted.

In the whole world of stock raising there is nothing more remarkable than the birth of silk-worm
moths. The cocoons on the racks in the farmer's loft are covered by sheets of newspaper in
which a number of round holes about three-quarters of an inch in diameter have been cut. When
the moths emerge from their cocoons they seek these openings towards the light and creep through
to the upper side of the newspaper. For newly born things they come up through these openings
with astonishing ardour. In body and wings the moths are flour white. White garments are suitable
for the babe, the bride and the dead, and the moth perfected in the cocoon is arrayed not only
for its birth but for bridal and death, which come upon it in swift succession. The male as
well as the female is in white and is distinguishable by being somewhat smaller in size. On
the newspaper the few males who have not found partners are executing wild dances, their wings
whirring the while at a mad pace. When from time to time they cease dancing they haunt the
holes in the paper through which the newly born moths emerge. When a female appears a male
instantly rushes towards her, or rather the two creatures rush towards one another, and they
are at once locked in a fast embrace. Immediately their wings cease to flutter, the only commotion
on the newspaper being made by the unmated males. In a hatching-room these males on the stacks
of trays are so numerous that the place is filled with the sound of the whirring of their wings.
The down flies from their wings to such an extent that one continually sneezes. The spectacle
of the stacks of trays covered by these ecstatic moths is remarkable, but still more remarkable
is the thrilling sense of the power of the life-force in a supposedly low form of consciousness.

The wonder of the scene is missed, no doubt, by most of those who are habituated to it. From
time to time weary, stolid-looking girls or old women lift down the trays and run their hands
over them in order to pick up superfluous male moths. Sometimes the male moths are walking
about the newspaper, sometimes they are torn callously from the embrace of their mates. The
fate of the male moths is to be flung into a basket where they stay until the next day, when
perhaps some of them may be mated again. The novice is impressed not only by the ruthlessness
of this treatment but by the way in which the whole loft is littered by male moths which have
fallen or have been flung on the floor and are being trampled on.

The female moths, when their partners have been removed, are taken downstairs in newspapers
in order to be put into the little tin receptacles where the eggs are to be laid. On a tray
there are spread out a number of egg cards with, as before mentioned, twenty-eight printed
circles on each of them. On these circles are placed the twenty-eight half-inch-high bottomless
enclosures of tin. Some one takes up a handful of moths and scatters them over the tins. Some
of the moths fall neatly into a tin apiece. Others are helped into the little enclosures in
which, to do them credit, they are only too willing to take up their quarters. The curious
thing is the way in which each moth settles down within her ring. Indeed from the moment of
her emergence from the cocoon until now she has never used her wings to fly. Nor did the male
moth seem to wish to fly. The sexes concentrate their whole attention on mating. After that
the female thinks of nothing but laying eggs. Almost immediately after she is placed within
her little tin she begins to deposit eggs, and within a few hours the circle of the card is
covered.

Food is given neither to the females nor to the males. Those which are not kept in reserve
for possible use on the second day are flung out of doors. When the female moth has deposited
her eggs she also is destroyed.[140] The shoji of the breeding and egg-laying rooms permit
only of a diffused light. The discarded moths are cast out into the brilliant sunshine where
they are eaten by poultry or are left to die and serve as manure.

Sericulture is always a risky business. There is first the risk of a fall in prices. Just before
I reached Japan prices were so low that many people despaired of being able to continue the
business, and shortly after I left there was a crisis in the silk trade in which numbers of
silk factories failed. At the time I was last in a silk-worm farmer's house cocoons were worth
from 5 to 6 yen per kwan of 8-1/4 lbs. From 8 to 10 kwan of cocoons could be expected from
a single egg card. Eggs were considered to be at a high price when they were more than 2 yen
per card. The risks of the farmer are increased when he launches out and buys mulberry leaves
to supplement those produced on his own land. Sometimes the price of leaves is so high that
farmers throw away some of their silk-worms. The risks run by the man who grows mulberries
beyond his own leaf requirements on the chance of selling are also considerable.

Beyond the risk of falling prices or of a short mulberry crop there is in sericulture the risk
of disease. One advantage of the system in which the eggs are laid in circles on the cards
instead of all over them is that if any disease should be detected the affected areas can be
easily cut out with a knife and destroyed. Disease is so serious a matter that silk-worm breeding,
as contrasted with silk-worm raising, is restricted to those who have obtained licences. The
silk-worm breeder is not only licensed. His silkworms, cocoons and mother moths are all in
turn officially examined. Breeding "seeds" were laid one year by about 33,000,000 odd moths;
common "seeds" by about 948,000,000.

Of recent years enormous progress has been made in combating disease. I have spoken of how
a silk-worm district may be recognised by the structure of the farmhouses and the prosperity
of the farmers, but another striking sign of sericulture is the trays and mats lying in the
sun in front of farmers' dwellings or on the hot stones of the river banks in order to get
thoroughly purified from germs. It is illustrative of the progress that has been made under
scientific influence, that whereas twenty years ago a sericulturist would reckon on losing
his silk-worm harvest completely once in five years, such a loss is now rare. Scientific instructors
have their difficulties in Japan as in the rural districts of other countries, but the people
respect authority, and they are accustomed to accept instruction given in the form of directions.
Also the Japanese have an unending interest in the new thing. Further, there is a continual
desire to excel for the national advantage and in emulation of the foreigner. The advance in
scientific knowledge in the rural districts is remarkable, because it is in such contrast with
the primitive lives of the country people. Picture the surprise of British or American farmers
were they brought face to face with thermometers, electric light and a working knowledge of
bacteriology in the houses of peasants in breech clouts.

It was while I was trying to learn something of the sericultural industry that I had the opportunity
of visiting a noteworthy institution. It is noteworthy, among other reasons, because I seldom
met a foreigner in Japan who knew of its existence. It is the great Ueda Sericultural College
in the prefecture of Nagano. I was struck not only by its extent but by its systematised efficiency.
On a level with the director's eyes was a motto in large lettering, "Be diligent. Develop your
virtues."

The Institute devotes itself to mulberries, silk-worms and silk manufacture. There are 200
students, as many as it will hold. The young men become teachers of sericulture, advisers in
mills and experts of co-operative sericultural societies. The institution, in addition to the
fees it receives and its earnings from its own products, some 33,000 yen in all, has an annual
Government subsidy of about 114,000 yen. There are other sericultural colleges doing similar
work in Tokyo and Kyoto, and there is also in the capital the Imperial Sericultural Experiment
Station (with a staff of 87), where I saw all sorts of research work in progress. This experiment
station has half a dozen branches scattered up and down the silk districts.

At Ueda I went through corridors and rooms, sterilised thrice a year, to visit professors engaged
in a variety of enquiries. One professor had turned into a kind of beef tea the pupæ thrown
away when the cocoons are unwound; another had made from the residual oil two or three kinds
of soap. The usual thing at a silk factory is for the pupæ, which are exposed to view when
the silk is unrolled from the scalded cocoons, to lie about in horrid heaps until they are
sold as manure or carp food. The professor declared that his product was equal to a third of
the total weight of the pupæ utilised, and was sure that it could be sold at a fifteenth of
the price of Western beef essences. The Director of the College had tried the product with
his breakfast for a fortnight and avowed that during the experiment he was never so perky.

It was a pleasure to look into the well-kept dormitories of the students, where there was evidence,
in books, pictures and athletic material, of a strenuous life. The young men are made fit not
only by judō, fencing, archery, tennis and general athletics, but by being sent up the mountains
on Sundays. The men are kept so hard that at the open fencing contest twice a year the visitors
are usually beaten. The director quoted to me Roosevelt's "Sweat and be saved."

From men we went to machines and mulberries. I inspected all sorts of hot chambers for killing
cocoons. I saw, in rooms draped in black velvet like the pictured scenes at a beheading, silk
testing for lustre and colour. I gazed with respect on many kinds of winding and weaving machinery.
Then, going out into the experiment fields, I strode through more varieties of mulberry than
I had imagined to exist. There are supposed to be 500 sorts in the country but many are no
doubt duplicates. The varieties differ so much in shape and texture of leaf that the novice
would not take some of them for mulberries.

It was held that it would not be difficult to increase the mulberry area in Japan by another
quarter of a million acres. The yield of leaves might be raised by 3,300 lbs. per acre if the
right sort of bushes were always grown and the right sort of treatment were given to them and
to the soil. As to the additional labour needed for an extended sericulture, the annual increase
in the population of Japan would provide it. I was told that "the technics of sericulture are
sure to improve." It would be easy to raise the yield 2 kwan per egg card for the whole country.
Within a seven-year period the production of cocoons per egg card had become 20 per cent. better.
The talk was of doubling the present yield of cocoons. The "proper encouragement" needed for
doubling the production of cocoons was more technical instruction and more co-operative societies.
There had been a continual rise in the world's demand for silk and there was no need to fear
"artificial silk." "People who buy it often come to appreciate natural silk." And I read in
an official publication that "the climate of Japan is suitable for the cultivation of mulberry
trees from south-west Formosa to Hokkaido in the north."

FOOTNOTES:

[139] For statistics of sericulture, see Appendix XXXIX.

[140] She is examined microscopically in order to make sure that she was not affected by infectious
disease.

CHAPTER XVIII

"GIRL COLLECTORS" AND FACTORIES

(NAGANO AND YAMANASHI)

At your return show the truth.--FROISSART

I visited factories in more than one prefecture. At the first factory--it employed about 1,000
girls and 200 men--work began at 4.30 a.m., breakfast was at 5 and the next meal at 10.30.
The stoppages for eating were for a few minutes only. A cake was handed to each girl at her
machine at 3. Suppertime came after work was finished at 7.[141] No money was paid the first
year. The second year the wages might be 3 or 4 yen a month. The statement was made that at
the end of her five years' term a girl might have 300 yen, but that this sum was not within
the reach of all.[142] The girls were driven at top speed by a flag system in which one bay
competed with another and was paid according to its earnings. Owing to the heat the flushed
girls probably looked better in health than they really were. They were fat in the face, but
this could not be regarded as an indication of their general well-being. It was admitted that
some girls left through illness. Employees returned to their homes for January and February,
when the factory was closed down; there was also three days' holiday in June. In the dormitory
I noticed that each girl had the space of one mat only (6 ft. by 3 ft.). Twenty-two girls slept
in each dormitory. The men connected with this factory were low-looking and shifty-eyed.

An agricultural expert who was well acquainted with the conditions of silk manufacture and
of the district and was in a disinterested position told me after my visit to this factory
how the foremen scoured the country for girl labour during January and February. The success
of the kemban or girl collector was due to the poverty of the people, who were glad "to be
relieved of the cost of a daughter's food." Occasionally the kemban had sub-agents. The mill
proprietors were in competition for skilled girls, and money was given by a kemban intent on
stealing another factory's hand.

The novices had no contract. The contract of a skilled girl provided that she should serve
at the factory for a specified period and that if she failed to do so, she should pay back
twenty times the 5 yen or whatever sum had been advanced to her. Obviously 100 yen would be
a prohibitive sum for a peasant's daughter to find. The amount of the workers' pay was not
specified in the contract. The document was plainly one-sided and would be regarded in an English
court as against public policy and unenforceable. Married women might take an infant with them
to the factory. In more than one factory I saw several thin-faced babies.

The effect of factory life on girls, a man who knew the countryside well told me, was "not
good." The girls had weakened constitutions as the result of their factory life and when they
married had fewer than the normal number of children. The general result of factory life was
degeneration. The girls "corrupted their villages."

The custom was, I understood, that the girls were kept on the factory premises except when
they could allege urgent business in town. But they were allowed out on the three nights of
the Bon festival. It was rare that priests visited the factories and there were no shrines
there. The girls had sometimes "lessons" given them and occasionally story-tellers or gramophone
owners amused them. The food supplied by some factories was not at all adequate and the girls
had to spend their money at the factory tuck-shops. "Most proprietors," I was told, "endeavour
to make part of their staff permanent by acting as middlemen to arrange marriages between female
and male workers." The infants of married workers were "looked after by the youngest apprentices."

In another place I saw over a factory which employed about 160 girls, who were worked from
5:30 a.m. to 6:40 p.m. with twenty minutes for each meal. If a girl "broke her contract" it
was the custom to send her name to other factories so that she could not get work again. The
foremen at this establishment seemed decent men.

One who had no financial interest in the silk industry but knew the district in which this
second factory stood said that "many girls" came home in trouble. The peasants did not like
"the spoiling of their daughters," but were "captured in their poverty by the idea of the money
to be gained." Undoubtedly the factory life was pictured in glowing colours by the kemban.

In a third factory there were more than 200 girls and only 15 men. The proprietor and manager
seemed good fellows. I was assured that it was forbidden for men workers to enter the women's
quarters, but on entering the dormitory I came on a man and woman scuffling. The girls of this
factory and in others had running below their feet an iron pipe which was filled with steam
in cold weather. On some days in July, the month in which I visited this factory, I noticed
from the temperature record sheet that the heat had reached 94 degrees in the steamy spinning
bays, where, unless the weather be damp, it was impossible, because of spinning conditions,
to admit fresh air. I saw a complaint box for the workers. As in other factories, there was
a certain provision of boiled water and ample bathing accommodation. Hot baths were taken every
night in summer and every other night in winter. Here, as elsewhere, though many of the girls
were pale and anaemic, all were clean in their persons, which is more than can be said of all
Western factory hands. Work began at 4 a.m. and went on until 7 p.m. From 10 to 15 minutes
were allowed for meals. The winter hours were from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.

In this factory, as in others, there was a system of tallies, showing to all the workers the
ranking of the girls for payment. The standard wage seemed to be 20 sen a day, and the average
to which it was brought by good work 30 sen. There were thirty or more girls who had deductions
from their 20 sen. Apprentices were shown as working at a loss. Once or twice a month a story-teller
came to entertain the girls and every fortnight a teacher gave them instruction. When I asked
if a priest came I was told that "in this district the families are not so religious, so the
girls are not so pious." Two doctors visited the factory, one of them daily. Counting all causes,
5 per cent. of the girls returned home. The owner of the factory, a man in good physical training
and with an alert and kindly face, said the industry succeeded in his district because the
employers "exerted themselves" and the girls "worked with the devotion of soldiers." I thought
of a motto written by the Empress, which I had seen at Ueda, "It is my wish that the girls
whose service it is to spin silk shall be always diligent." Behind the desk of this factory
proprietor hung the motto, "Cultivate virtues and be righteous."

The fourth factory I saw seemed to be staffed entirely with apprentices who were turned over
to other factories in their third year. The girls appeared to have to sleep three girls to
two mats. In the event of fire the dormitory would be a death-trap. I was told that there was
an entertainment or a "lecture on character" once a week. The motto on the walls of this factory
was, "Learning right ways means loving mankind."

I went over the factory which belonged to the largest concern in Japan and had 10,000 hands.
The girls were looked after in well-ventilated dormitories by ten old women who slept during
the day and kept watch at night. There was a fire escape. All sorts of things were on sale
at wholesale prices at the factory shop, but for any good reason an exit ticket was given to
town. The dining-room was excellent. There was a hospital in this factory and the nurse in
the dispensary summarised at my request the ailments of the 35 girls who were lying down comfortably:
stomachic, 12; colds, 7; fingers hurt by the hot water of the cocoon-soaking basins, 5; female
affections, 4; nervous, 2; eyes, rheumatism, nose, lungs and kidneys, 1 each. The average wages
in this factory worked out at 60 yen for 9 months. The hour of beginning work was 4:30 at the
earliest. The factory stopped at sunset, the latest hour being 6:30. I was assured that of
the girls who did not get married 70 per cent. renewed their contracts. A large enclosed open
space was available in which the girls might stroll before going to bed. The motto of the establishment
was, "I hear the voice of spring under the shadow of the trees." In reference to the new factory
legislation the manager said that the hours of labour were so long that it would be some time
before 10 hours a day would be initiated.[143] This factory and its branches were started thirty
years ago by a man who was originally a factory worker. Although now very rich he had "always
refused to be photographed and had not availed himself of an opportunity of entering the House
of Peers."

I visited several factories the girls working at which did not live in dormitories but outside.
At a winding and hanking factory which was airy and well lighted the hours were from 6 to 6.
At a factory where the hours were from 4:30 to 7 some reelers had been fined. Japanese Christian
pastors sometimes came to see the girls, and on the wall of the recreation room there were
paper gohei hung up by a Shinto priest.

I got the impression that the girls in the factories at Kōfu in Yamanashi prefecture were not
driven so hard as those at the factories in the Suwas in Nagano. Someone said: "However the
Suwa people may exploit their girls, we are able, working shorter hours and giving more entertainments,
to produce better silk, for the simple reason that the girls are in better condition. We can
get from 5 to 10 per cent. more for our silk." A factory manager said that it would be better
if the girls had a regular holiday once a week, but one firm could not act alone. (The factories
are working seven days a week, except for festival days and public holidays.)

With regard to the kemban, I was told in Yamanashi that many girls went to the factories "unwillingly
by the instructions of their parents." It was also stated that the money paid to girls or their
parents on their engagement was not properly a gratuity but an advance. I heard that the police
keep a special watch on kemban. They would not do this without good reason.

FOOTNOTES:

[141] The times stated are those given to me in the factories. The question of overtime is
referred to later in the Chapter.

[142] Again the reader must be reminded of the rise in wages and prices (estimated on p. xxv).
During the recent period of inflation, silk rose to 3,000 yen per picul and fell to 1,300 or
1,400 yen. There have been great fluctuations in the wages of factory girls. At the most flourishing
period as much as 25 yen per head was paid to recruiters of girls. In this Chapter, however,
it is best to record exactly what I saw and heard.

[143] On the day on which I re-read this for the printers, I notice in an American paper that
one of the largest employers of labour in the United States has just stated that he did not
see his way to abolish the twelve-hours' day.

CHAPTER XIX

"FRIEND-LOVE-SOCIETY'S" GRIM TALE

The psychology of behaviour teaches us that [a country's] failures and semi-failures are likely
to continue until there is a far more widespread appreciation of the importance of studying
the forces which govern behaviour.--SAXBY

I

I do not think that some of the factory proprietors are conscious that they are taking undue
advantage of their employees. These men are just average persons at the ante-Shaftesbury stage
of responsibility towards labour.[144] Their case is that the girls are pitifully poor and
that the factories supply work at the ruling market rates for the work of the pitifully poor.
Said one factory owner to me genially: "Peasant families are accustomed to work from daylight
to dark. In the silk-worm feeding season they have almost no time for sleep. Peasant people
are trained to long hours. Lazy people might suffer from the long hours of the factory, but
the factory girls are not lazy."

It hardly needs to be pointed out that there is all the difference between a long day at the
varied work of a farm, even in the trying silk-worm season, and a long day, for nine or ten
months on end, sitting still, with the briefest intervals for food, in the din and heat of
a factory. Such a life must be debilitating. When it is added that in most factories, in the
short period between supper and sleep, and again during the night, the girls are closely crowded,
no further explanation is wanted of the origin of the tuberculosis which is so prevalent in
the villages which supply factory labour.[145] There is no question that in the scanty moments
the girls do have for an airing most of them are immured within the compounds of their factories.
A large proportion of the many thousands of factory girls[146] who are to be mothers of a new
generation in the villages are passing years of their lives in conditions which are bad for
them physically and morally. It must not be forgotten that very many of the girls go to the
factories before they are fully grown. On the question of morality, evidence from disinterested
quarters left no doubt on my mind that the morale of the girls was lowered by factory life.
The Lancashire factory girl goes home every evening and she has her Saturday afternoon and
her Sunday, her church or chapel, her societies and clubs, her amusements and her sweetheart.
Her Japanese sister has none of this natural life and she has infinitely worse conditions of
labour.

It is only fair to remember, however, that the Japanese factory girl comes from a distance.
She has no relatives or friends in the town in which she is working. But the plea that she
would get into trouble if she were allowed her liberty without control of any sort does not
excuse her present treatment. If the factories offered decent conditions of life not a few
of the companies would get at their doors most of the labour they need and many of the girls
would live at home. If the factories insist on having cheap rural labour then they should do
their duty by it. The girls should have reasonable working hours, proper sleeping accommodation
and proper opportunities inside and outside the factories for recreation and moral and mental
improvement. It is idle to suggest that fair treatment of this sort is impossible. It is perfectly
possible.

The factory proprietors are no worse than many other people intent on money making. But the
silk industry, as I saw it, was exploiting, consciously or unconsciously, not only the poverty
of its girl employees but their strength, morality, deftness[147] and remarkable school training
in earnestness and obedience. Several times I heard the unenlightened argument that, if there
were a certain sacrifice of health and well-being, a rapidly increasing population made the
sacrifice possible; that, as silk was the most valuable product in Japan, and it was imperative
for the development and security of the Empire that its economic position should be strengthened,
the sacrifice must be made. Nothing need be said of such a hopelessly out-of-date and nationally
indefensible attitude except this: that it is doubtful whether any considerable proportion
of the people connected with the silk industry have felt themselves specially charged with
a mission to strengthen the economic condition of their country. They have simply availed themselves
of a favourable opportunity to make money. That opportunity was presented by the cheap labour
available in farmers' daughters unprotected by effective trade unions, by properly administered
factory laws or by public opinion.

II[148]

The enterprise, the efficiency and the profits shown by the sericultural industry have been
remarkable, and not a few of the capitalists connected with it are personally public-spirited.
But many well-wishers of Japan, native-born and foreign, cannot help wondering what is the
real as compared with the seeming return of the industry to a nation the strength of which
is in its reservoir of rustic health and willingness. It is significant of the extent to which
the factories are working with cheap labour that, in a country in which there are more men
than women,[149] there was in about 20,000 factories 58 per cent. of female labour. If I stress
the fact of female employment it is because in Japan nearly every woman eventually marries.
Enfeebled women must therefore hand on enfeeblement to the next generation.[150]

The Japanese, in their present factory system, as in other developments, insist on making for
themselves all the mistakes that we have made and are now ashamed of. In judging the Japanese
let us remember that all our industrial exploitation of women[151] was not, as we like to believe,
an affair as far off as the opening nineteenth century. I do not forget as a young man filling
a newspaper poster with the title of an article which recounted from my own observation the
woes of women chain makers who, with bared breasts and their infants sprawling in the small
coals, slaved in domestic smithies for a pittance. And as I write it is announced that the
head of the United States Steel Corporation says that "there is no necessity for trade unions,"
which are, in his opinion, "inimical to the best interests of the employers and the public."
That is precisely the view of most Japanese factory proprietaries.

The trade union is not illegal in Japan, but its teeth have been drawn (1) by the enactment
that "those who, with the object of causing a strike, seduce or incite others" shall be sentenced
to imprisonment from one to six months with a fine of from 3 to 30 yen; (2) by the power given
to the police (a) to detain suspected persons for a succession of twenty-four hour periods,
and (b) summarily to close public meetings, and (3) by the franchise being so narrow that few
trade unionists have votes. During the six years of the War there were as many as 141,000 strikers,
but a not uncommon method of these workers was merely to absent themselves from work, to refrain
from working while in the factory, or to "ca' canny." Nevertheless 633 of them were arrested.
When I attended in Tokyo a gathering of members of the leading labour organisation in Japan
it was discreetly named Yu-ai-kai (Friend-Love-Society, i.e. Friendly Society). Now it is boldly
called the Confederation of Japanese Labour. A Socialist League[152] and several labour publications
exist. Workers assemble to see moving pictures of labour demonstrations, and a labour meeting
has defied the police in attendance by singing the whole of the "Song of Revolution." But crippled
as the unions are under the law against strikes and by the poverty of the workers, they find
it difficult to attain the financial strength necessary for effective action. Many workers
are trade unionists when they are striking but their trade unionism lapses when the strike
is over, for then the unions seem to have small reason for existing. The head of the Federation
of Labour lately announced that the number of trade unionists was only 100,000, or half what
it was during the recent big strikes and it is doubtful whether, even including the 7,000 members
of the Seamen's Union, there are in Japan more than 50,000 contributing members of the different
unions. But this 50,000 may be regarded as staunch.

The poverty-stricken unions certainly afford no real protection to the girl workers, who form
indeed a very small proportion of their members. And the Factory Law does little for them.
A Japanese friend who knows the labour situation well writes to me:

"According to the Factory Law, which came into force in the autumn of 1916, 'factory employers
are not allowed to let women work more than twelve hours in a day.' (Article III, section 1.)
But if necessary, 'the competent Minister is entitled to extend this limitation to fourteen
hours.' (Section 2.) As to night work the law says that 'factory employers are not allowed
to let women work from 10 p.m. to 4 a.m.' (Article IV.) If, however, there are necessary reasons,
'the employers can be exempted from the obligation of the Article IV.' (Article V.) Article
IX says that 'the employers are forbidden to let women engage in dangerous work.' But whether
work is dangerous or not is determined by 'the competent Minister' (Article XI), who may or
may not be well informed. There is also Article XII, 'The competent Minister can limit or prohibit
the work of women about to have children' and within three weeks after confinement. But anyone
who enters factories may see women with pale faces because they work too soon after their confinement.

"I cannot tell you how far these provisions are enforced. I can only say that I have not yet
heard of employers being punished for violating the Factory Law. Can it be supposed that employers
are so honest as never to violate the Factory Law? As to working hours, in some factories they
may work less than fourteen hours as the law indicates. In others they may work more, because
'there are necessary reasons.' This is especially true of the factories in the country parts.
As 200 inspectors have been appointed, the authorities must by now know the actual situation
pretty well."

Dr. Kuwata, a former member of the Upper House, with whom I frequently discussed the labour
situation, declares the Factory Law to be "palpably imperfect and primitive." At the end of
1917 there were, according to official figures, 99,000 female factory operatives under fifteen
years of age and 2,400 under twelve. Some 20,000 of these children were employed in silk factories.
What protection have they? Before passing this page for the press I have shown it to a well-informed
Japanese friend and he says that he has never seen any newspaper report of a prosecution under
the Factory Law. Obviously a Factory Law under which no one is ever prosecuted is not operative.[153]

It is excellent that Japan has sent a large permanent delegation to Switzerland to establish
a system of liaison with the International Labour Office of the League of Nations. This company
of young men will keep the Japanese Government well informed. There is undoubtedly in Japan,
under Western influence, a steady development of sensitiveness to working-class conditions
and a rapid growth of modern social ideas. But the Government and the Diet will not step out
far in advance of general opinion, the most will naturally be made by the authorities and trade
interests of bad factory conditions on the Continent of Europe and in some industries in the
United States, and the majority of a public which has been carefully nurtured in the belief
that a profitable industrialism is the great desideratum for Japan will not be restive. Real
factory reform is not to be expected until an enlightened view is taken by Japanese in general
of the exploitation of girls for any purpose. It is not in commercial human nature, Eastern
or Western, that factory directors and shareholders should forgo without a struggle the advantage
of possessing cheaper and more subjected labour than their foreign rivals. Some influence may
be exerted in the right direction by the fact that those who are profiting by cheap and docile
labour may themselves be undersold before long by cheaper and still more docile labour in China.[154]
And in 1922 Japan is under an obligation, accepted at the Washington Labour Conference, to
stop women working more than eleven hours a day and to abolish night work. Meantime the labour
movement makes progress. It is significant that many of its leaders are under the influence
of "direct action" ideas. They hope little from a Diet elected on a narrow franchise and supported
by a strong Government machine backed by the Conservative farmer vote. Although, however, there
does not seem to be as yet a junction between the labour movement and the unions of the tenant
farmers, who have their own interests alone in view, the future may present unexpected developments.
As I write, the labour movement is conducting a trial of strength with the great Mitsubishi
and Kawasaki enterprises and is presenting a stronger front than it has yet done.

This Chapter would give an unfair impression of the relations of capital and labour in Japan
if it included no reference to the well-intentioned efforts made by several large employers
to improve the conditions of working-class life and labour. Sometimes they have followed the
example of philanthropic firms in Great Britain and America. As often as not they have been
inspired by old Japanese ideas of a master's responsibilities. Many leading industrials have
believed and still believe that by the conservation and development of old ideas of paternalism
and loyalty the trade-union stage of industrial development may be avoided. This conviction
was expressed to me by, among others, Mr. Matsukata, of the famous Kawasaki concern, who has
made generous contributions to "welfare" work. My own brief experience as an employer in Japan
made me acquainted with some canons in the relationship of employer and employed which have
lost their authority in the West. Given wisdom on the part of masters, the prolonged bitterness
which has marked the industrial development of the West need not be repeated in Japan, but
whether that wisdom will be displayed in time is doubtful. The Japanese commercial world has
been commendably quick to learn in many directions in the West. It will be a serious reflection
on the intelligence of the country if the lessons of the industrial acerbities of Europe and
the United States should not be grasped. Meantime it is a duty which the foreign observer owes
to Japan to speak quite plainly of attempts as silly as they are useless[155] to obscure the
lamentable condition of a large proportion of Japanese workers, to hide the immense profits
which have been made by their employers and to pretend that factory laws have only to be placed
on the statute book in order to be enforced. But if he be honest he must also recognise the
handicap of specially costly equipment[156] and of unskilled labour and inexperience under
which the Japanese business world is competing for the place in foreign trade to which it has
a just claim. Such conditions do not in the least excuse inhumanity, but they help to explain it.

FOOTNOTES:

[144] It is a chastening exercise to read before proceeding with this Chapter an extract from
Spencer Walpole's History of England, vol. iii, p. 317, under the year 1832: "The manufacturing
industries of the country were collected into a few centres. In one sense the persons employed
had their reward: the manufacturers gave them wages. In another sense their change of occupation
brought them nothing but evil. Forced to dwell in a crowded alley, occupying at night a house
constructed in neglect of every known sanitary law, employed in the daytime in an unhealthy
atmosphere and frequently on a dangerous occupation, with no education available for his children,
with no reasonable recreation, with the sky shrouded by the smoke of an adjoining capital,
with the face of nature hidden by a brick wall, neglected by an overworked clergyman, regarded
as a mere machine by an avaricious employer, the factory operative turned to the public house,
the prize ring or the cockpit."

[145] See Appendix XL.

[146] Number of factory workers, a million and a half, of whom 800,000 are females. For statistics
of women workers, see Appendix XLI.

[147] The Minister of Commerce has himself stated that the sericultural industry is rooted
in the dexterity of the Japanese countrywoman.

[148] This section of the Chapter was written in 1921.

[149] In Japan in 1918 there were, per 1,000, 505.2 men to 494.8 women.

[150] Of the workers under the age of fifteen in the 20,000 factories, 82 per cent. were girls.
The statistics in this paragraph were issued by the Ministry of Commerce in 1917.

[151] For sketches of women and children (with a chain between their legs) harnessed to coal
wagons in the pits, see Parliamentary Papers, vol. xv, 1842. "There is a factory system grown
up in England the most horrible that imagination can conceive," wrote Sir William Napier to
Lady Hester Stanhope two years after Queen Victoria's accession. "They are hells where hundreds
of children are killed yearly in protracted torture." In Torrens's Memoirs of the Queen's First
Prime Minister, one reads: "Melbourne had a Bill drawn which with some difficulty he persuaded
the Cabinet to sanction, prohibiting the employment of children under 9 in any except silk mills."

[152] More than 200 books on Socialism were published in 1920.

[153] For a declaration by Dr. Kuwata concerning bad food and "defiance of hygienic rules,"
see Appendix XLII.

[154] See Appendix XLIII.

[155] See Appendix XLII.

[156] In a pre-War publication of the United States Department of Commerce it was stated that
the cost of cotton mills per spindle is in England 32s., in the United States 44s., in Germany
52s., and in Japan 100s.

FROM TOKYO TO THE NORTH BY THE WEST COAST

CHAPTER XX

"THE GARDEN WHERE VIRTUES ARE CULTIVATED"

(FUKUSHIMA AND YAMAGATA)

BOSWELL: If you should advise me to go to Japan I believe I should. JOHNSON: Why yes, Sir,
I am serious.

In one of my journeys I went from Tokyo to the extreme north of Japan, travelling up the west
coast and down the east. Fukushima prefecture--in which is Shirakawa, famous for a horse fair
which lasts a week--encourages the eating of barley, for on the northern half of the east coast
of Japan there is no warm current and the rice crop may be lost in a cold season. "Officials
of the prefecture and county," someone said to me, "take barley themselves; enthusiastic gunchō
take it gladly."

The prefectural station, by selecting the best varieties of rice for sowing, had effected a
10 per cent. improvement in yield. In each county an official "agricultural encourager" had
been appointed. The lectures given at the experiment station were attended by 18,000 persons.
The studious who listen to the lectures had formed an association that provided at the station
a fine building where supper, bed, breakfast and lunch cost 30 sen. It contained a model of
the Ise shrine with a motto in the handwriting of a well-known Tokyo agricultural professor,
"Difficulties Polish You."

"Some villagers," said a local authority, "want to make the Buddhist temple the centre of the
development of village life. In several places agricultural products are exhibited at Shinto
shrines. Farmers offer them out of a kind of piety, but the products are afterwards criticised
from a technical point of view. This is done on the initiative of the villagers encouraged
by the prefecture."

Hereabouts the winter work of the people, in addition to basket, rope and mat making, was paper
making and smoothing out the wrinkles of tobacco.[157] A considerable number of people had
emigrated to South America. The principal need of the villages, it was stated, was money at
less than the current rate of 20 per cent. In one place I found a factory built on the side
of a daimyo's castle.

I was told of crops of konnyaku which had made one man the second richest person in the prefecture
and had therefore qualified him for membership in the House of Peers. (The House includes one
member from each prefecture as the representative of the highest taxpayers of that prefecture.)

During my journeys I picked up many odds and ends of information by walking through the trains
and having chats with country people. I was also helped by county and prefectural agricultural
officials who, having learnt of my movements, were kind enough to join me in the train for
an hour or so. One head of an agricultural school which was full up with students told me that
there were already in Fukushima two prefectural and five county agricultural schools.

Our train, half freight with a locomotive at each end, went over the backbone of Japan through
the usual series of snow shelters and tunnels. Having surmounted the heights we slid down into
Yamagata. I should properly write Yamagataken, which we cannot translate Yamagatashire, for
a ken (prefecture) is made up of counties. There are eleven counties in Yamagataken.

Almost any sort of dwelling looks tolerable in August, but many of the houses that first caught
our attention must be lamentable shelters in winter. Some farmers, I learnt, were "in a very
bad condition." We dropped from a silk and rice plateau and then to a region where the main
crop was rice. The bare hills to be seen in our descent were an appalling spectacle when it
was realised how close was their relation to the disastrous floods of the prefecture. A man
in the train had lost 10,000 yen by floods, a large sum in rural Japan. In two years the prefecture
had spent in river-bank repairs nearly a million yen. A flood some years ago did damage to
the amount of 20 million yen. The prefecture had a debt of 60 million yen, chiefly due to havoc
wrought by its big river. A yearly sum was spent on afforestation in addition to what was laid
out by the State and by private individuals. A forestry association was trying to raise half
a million yen for tree planting. But the flooding of the plains was not the only water trouble
of the Yamagatans. In one district they had a stream which contained solutions of compounds
of sulphuric acid so strong that crops fail for three years on ground watered from it. In other
parts of the prefecture, however, farmers had the advantage, enjoyed in many parts of Japan,
of being able to water from ammonia water springs.

Hereabouts I first noticed the device common to many districts of having on the roof of a cottage
a water barrel, tub or cistern, ready to be emptied on the shingle roof when sparks fly from
a burning dwelling. Sometimes the wooden water receptacles are wrapped round with straw.

In the prefectural city of Yamagata I heard of a primary school which had a farm and made a
profit, also of four landowners who had engaged an agricultural expert for the instruction
of their tenants. "A very certain crop" round about the city was grapes. Some 25,000 persons
yearly visited the prefectural 12 -chō experiment station, which within a year had distributed
to farmers 7,600 cyanided fruit trees and 80 bushels of special seed rice.

Near the experiment station was a crematorium of ugly brick and galvanised iron belonging to
the city of Yamagata at which 1,000 bodies were burnt in a year in furnaces heated with pine
blocks. A selection might be made from four rates ranging from 35 sen to 5 yen. The most expensive
rate was for folk who arrived in Western-style coffins.

The experiment station had another institution at its doors. This had to do not with the dead
but with the living. Its name was "The Garden where Virtues are Cultivated." The director of
it was the father of the agricultural expert of the prefecture. The garden, which was not a
garden, was a home for bad boys, or rather for thirty bad boys and one bad girl. The bad girl--the
director, being a man of humanity, common sense and courage, thought it most necessary that
there should be at least one bad girl--acted as maidservant to the director. The bad boys "maided"
themselves and the school. The lads were such as had fallen into the hands of the police. They
were being reformed in a somewhat original way by a somewhat original director.

Early in the day they had their cold bath, which was itself a break with Japanese custom, for,
though most Japanese have a nightly hot bath, they are content with a basin wash in the morning.
Then the boys "cleaned school." Next they were marched up one by one to a mirror and required
to take a good look at themselves, in order, no doubt, to see just how bad they were. After
this they were called on to "give thanks to the Emperor and their ancestors." Finally came
a half-hour lecture on "morality." It was considered that by this time the boys were entitled
to their breakfast. For open-air labour they were sent to the experiment station, but they
had manual work also in their own school, where, among other things, they "made useful things
out of waste," the income from which went to their families. On Sundays the master, though
he must be nearer sixty than fifty, fenced with every one of the thirty boys in turn--no ordinary
task, for Japanese fencing calls not only for an eye and a hand, but for a muscular back. Some
wholesome-looking young fellows, members of a young men's association, served as volunteer
masters and lived in the bare fashion that was so good for the boys.

The director did not believe that bad boys were hopeless. He said that not only the boys but
their parents were better for the work done in "The Garden where Virtues are Cultivated." He
seemed to have become a sort of consulting expert to primary school-masters who were at a loss
to know how to manage bad boys. Chastisement, as is well known, is unusual in Japanese schools.
The director of the human hortus inclusus confessed to me that though two of his boys whom
he had caught fighting might not have been separated without, in the Western phrase, "feeling
the weight of his hand," his heaviest punishment on other difficult occasions was the moxa.

The moxa brings us back to real horticulture. Moxa is mogusa or mugwort. Mogusa means "burning
herb." The moxa is a great therapeutic agent in the Far East. A bit of the dried herb is laid
on the skin and set fire to as a sort of blister. From the application of the moxa as a cure
for physical ills to its application for the cure of bad boys is a natural step. One sees by
the scars on the backs of not a few Japanese that in their youth either their health or their
characters left something to be desired. The moxa, then, is the rod in pickle in "The Garden
where Virtues are Cultivated." But I think it is not brought out often. A wrestling ring in
a mass of sand thrown down in a yard, a harmonium, a blackboard for the boys to work their
will on, doors labelled "The Room of Patience," "The Room of Honesty," "The Room of Cleanliness"
and "The Room of Good Arrangement," not to speak of a rabbit loping about the school premises--these
and some other touches in the management of the school spoke of an even stronger influence
toward well-doing than the moxa. But even if the moxa should fail, the attention of the boys
could always be drawn to the crematorium.

One who knew the rural districts discoursed to me in this wise: "The best men are not numerous,
but neither are the worst. I doubt whether the desire to enjoy life is as strong in the Japanese
as in the people of the West. Most farmers would no doubt be happy with material comfort. Pressed
as they have been by material needs, they have no time to think. When they are easier, they
may get something beyond the physical. At present we must regard their material welfare as
the most urgent thing." But a man standing by, who was also a countryman, strongly dissented.
"Religion," he said, "is not only important but fundamental."

I have been received by more than one prefectural governor at eight in the morning. His Excellency
of Yamagata sets a good example by rising at five and by going to bed at nine. He told me that
he thought the farmer's chief lack was cheap money. Low interest and a long term might convert
into arable 25,000 acres of barren land in his prefecture. In the old days, as I knew, the
farmers drove tunnels considerable distances for irrigation, but with modern engineering better
results would be possible if money were available. As to the misdeeds of the rivers, it might
almost be said that every village was feeling the need of embanking and of going to the source
of loss by planting trees in the hills. Beautiful forests of feudal period had been wasted
in the early days of Meiji and the result was now plain.

But attention had to be given to the minds as well as the pockets of the villagers. Families
that were once reasonably content were now discontented. A livelihood was harder to get, taxation
was heavier and there was an increase in needs. Country people imagined townspeople to be comfortably
off, "not realising how they were tormented." Villagers envied townsmen their amusements. Some
prefectures had forbidden the Bon dance and had supplied nothing in its place. It was easy
to see why farmers no longer applied themselves so closely to their calling and were wavering
in their allegiance to country life. Healthful amusements were necessary for those whose minds
were not much developed. Also, country people should be taught the true character of town life,
and that agriculture, though it might not yield the profit of commerce and industry, ensured
a reasonably happy life in healthful places where physical strength could be enjoyed. The right
kind of village libraries should be encouraged. Music might perhaps be forced into competition
with saké.

A mental awakening by education was the final solution of the rural problem, the Governor thought.
Religion was also important for the development of the village. Believers not under the eyes
of others would avoid wrong-doing because watched by heaven. Lectures on agriculture and sanitation
had a good influence when delivered by priests. Temples were often schools before the era of
Meiji and so priests were socially active. Under the new dispensation the work was taken out
of their hands. So they had come to care little for the affairs of the world. But they were
influential and the prefecture had asked for their help. The merits of many priests might not
be conspicuous, but the number of them who were active was increasing and the villagers deferred
to them if they took any step.

The most hopeful thing in the villages was the awakening of the young men: they were becoming
"sincere," a favourite Japanese word. For the most part the credit societies were not efficient,
but in one county credit societies had lessened the business of the banks. The best way to
furnish capital to farmers was out of the capital of their fellow farmers.

Possibly the girls of the villages were not making the same advance as the boys. They did not
go to their field labour willingly. Sometimes when a woman was asked by a neighbour on the
road, "Have you been working on the farm?" she would answer, "No, I have been to the temple."
The host of women's papers had a bad effect. With regard to the habutae (silk goods) factories,
there was a bright side, for they gave work to the girls in winter, when they were idle "and
therefore poor and sometimes immoral." On the other hand, factory girls tended to become vain
and thriftless and the stay-at-home girls were inclined to imitate them.

FOOTNOTES:

[157] See Appendix XLV.

CHAPTER XXI

THE "TANOMOSHI"

(YAMAGATA)

Society is kept in animation by the customary and by sentiment.--MEREDITH

Six feet of snow is common on the line on which we travelled in Yamagata prefecture, and washouts
are not infrequent. A train has been stopped for a week by snow. It was difficult to think
of snow when one saw groups of pilgrims with their flopping sun-mats on their backs. The shrines
on three local mountain tops are visited by 20,000 people yearly.

We bought at railway stations different sorts of gelatinous fruit preparations. Most places
in Japan have a speciality in the form of a food or a curiosity that can be bought by travellers.

In the great Shonai plain, which extends through three counties, there are no fewer than 82,500
acres of rice and the unending crops were a sight to see. A great deal of the paddy land has
been adjusted. In one county there is the largest adjusted area in Japan, 20,000 acres. When
one raises one's eyes from the waving fields of illimitable rice, the dominating feature of
the landscape is Mount Chokai with his August snow cap.

The three-storey hotel at which we stayed had been taken to pieces and transported twenty miles.
Such removal of houses to a more convenient or, in the case of an hotel, a more profitable
site, is not uncommon. I sometimes patronised at Omori a large hotel on a little hill halfway
between Yokohama and Tokyo, which had formerly been the prefectural building at Kanagawa. In
the hotel in which I was now staying I was interested in the "Notice" in my room:

1. A spitting-pot is provided. [Usually of bamboo or porcelain.]

2. No towels are lent for fear of trachoma.[158] [The traveller in Japan carries his own towels,
but a towel is a common gift on a guest's departure in acknowledgment of his tea money.]

3. There is a table of rates. Guests are requested to say in which they desire to be reckoned.
[To the hotel proprietor, landlord or manager when the visit of courtesy is paid on the guest's
arrival. Otherwise a judgment is formed from the guest's clothes, demeanour and baggage.]

4. Please lock up your valuables or let us keep them. [There are no locks on Japanese doors.]

5. Railroad, kuruma, box-sledge or automobile charges on application. [The box-sledge shows
what the country is like in winter.]

In conversations about local conditions I was told that "landowners of the middle grade" were
suffering from "trying to keep up their position." I remembered the song which may be rendered:

        Would that my daughter
        Were married to a middle farmer.
        With two chō of farm
        And a tan in the wood.
        No borrowing; no lending;
        Both ends meeting.
        Visiting the temple by turns--
        Someone must stay at home.
        Going to Heaven sooner or later.
        What a happy life!
        What a happy life!

Tenants were rather well off because their standard of living was lower than that of owners.
Economic conditions were improving in Yamagata, but in the adjoining prefecture of Miyagi on
the eastern coast of Japan "whole villages" had gone to Hokkaido. Some poor farmers were spending
only 5 sen a day on food, the rest of what they ate coming entirely from their own holdings.
Some farmers said, "If you calculate our income, we are certainly unable to make a living,
but in some way or other we are able," which is what some small holders in many countries would
say.

I was told that a labourer's 5 tan could be cultivated by working half days. Generally more
was earned by labouring than could be gained from a small patch of land. But for half the year
labourer's work was not obtainable. My informant found small tenant labourers "well off" if
both husband and wife had wages: "they are able to buy a bottle of saké in the evening." Their
position was better than that of a small peasant proprietor.

One in a thousand of the families in a specified county slept in straw. I heard of the payment
of 20 to 25 per cent. to pawnbroker lenders.

But there is another way of borrowing. The plan of the kō may be adopted. A kō--it is odd that
it should so closely resemble our abbreviation "Co."--is simple and effective. If a man is
badly off or wants to undertake something beyond his financial resources, and his friends decide
to help him, they may proceed by forming a kō. A kō is composed of a number of people who agree
to subscribe a certain sum monthly and to divide the proceeds monthly by ballot, beginning
by giving the first month's receipts to the person to succour whom the kō was formed. Suppose
that the subscription be fixed at a yen a month and that there are fifty subscribers. Then
the beneficiary--who pays in his yen with the rest--gets 50 yen on the occasion of the first
ingathering. Every month afterwards a member who is lucky in the ballot gets 50 yen. The monthly
paying in and paying out continue for fifty months and all the subscribers duly get their money
back, with the advantage of having had a little excitement and having done a neighbourly action.

But the kō, or tanomoshi, as I ought to call it, is not always the innocent organisation I
have described. There is a tanomoshi system under which, after member A, the beneficiary, has
received the first month's subscriptions, the other members are open to receive bids for their
shares. That is to say that, when the time comes round for the second paying out of 50 yen,
member F, who happens to have become as much in need of ready money as A was, offers, if the
month's moneys be handed over to him, to distribute among the members sums up to 20 yen. July
and December, when most people need ready money, are months in which a hard-up member of a
tanomoshi may sometimes offer to distribute as much as 50 per cent. of what he receives. The
result of such bidding for shares is that well-to-do members of a tanomoshi, who are the last
to draw their 50 yen, receive in addition to it all the extra payments made by impoverished
members who took their shares earlier. Benevolence in a tanomoshi is not seldom a mask for
avarice that the law against usury cannot touch. In truth, the only virtuous part of a tanomoshi
may be the first sharing out to the person in whose interest it was supposed to be started.
It should be added, however, that there is a sort of tanomoshi which has no particular beneficiary
and is merely a kind of co-operative credit society. In one place I heard of a tanomoshi that
maintained a large fund for the relief of orphans and the sick.

In many villages there were private or co-operative godowns for the storage of rice against
fire, rats and damp. Though the farmer who sends rice to such a store receives a receipt, it
is not legally a marketable document. Hence an improvement on this simple storage plan. I visited
the premises of a company that could store more than 500,000 bushels of rice, and I found purification
by carbon bisulphide going on. The receipts given by this company--"certificated" for large
quantities and "tickets" for small--certify not only the quantity but the quality of the rice,
and are readily cashed. The storehouse owners work under a licence, and they have the advantage
that the buyer of the receipts of non-licensed stores is not protected by the courts.

In the office of the company were samples of eleven market qualities of rice, and before them,
by way of showing respect to the great food staple, was set the gohei of cut white paper seen
in Shinto shrines. Outside the office, girl porters carried the bales of rice to and fro. Close
to the store was a river in which some of the dusty, perspiring porters were washing and cooling
themselves with a simplicity to which Western civilisation is not yet equal. Opposite them
men were fishing by casting in draw nets from the shore just as in biblical pictures the apostles
are represented as doing.

The company has a rice market where farmers were putting their business in the dealers' hands.
Each dealer has to deposit 5,000 yen with the State. The dealer who buys rice from a farmer
has better polishing machinery than the farmer possesses. Therefore he can give the rice a
more uniform appearance. By decreasing the weight of the rice during the polishing he gives
it he is also able to lessen the sum payable for carriage and he has the value of the offal.

In order to visit farmers I rode some distance into the country.[159] The village, which was
of the Zen sect, was at work cleaning out and straightening the stream which, as is usual in
many villages, ran through the middle of it. I was impressed during my visit not only by the
readiness and intelligence with which my questions were answered but by the good humour with
which a stranger's inquiries concerning personal matters was received. I had another thought,
that I might not have found a group of Western farmers so well informed about their financial
position as these simple, primitively clad men.

Our kuruma route to and from the village had been through one great tract of well-adjusted
rice fields. Adjustment was not difficult in this region because half the land belongs to the
Homma family, which has given much study to the art of land-holding. For two centuries the
clan by charging moderate rents and studying the interests of its tenants has maintained happy
relations with them.

For many years a plan has been in operation by which 200 one-tan paddy-fields are cultivated
by the agents or managers of the estate, by tenants selected by their fellow tenants for merit,
by tenants chosen by the landlord for diligence and by others picked out because of their interest
in agriculture. In order to increase the zest of competition the cultivators are divided into
a black and a white company. The names of those who raise the most and best rice are published
in the order of their success, farm implements are distributed as prizes, the clever cultivators
are invited to the landlord's New Year entertainment to the agents and managers, and at that
feast "places of distinction are given."

There is also a system of rewarding the best five-years averages. A competition takes place
between what are called "dress fields" because those who get the best results from them receive
a ceremonial dress bearing the inscription, "Prosperity and Welfare." The honour of wearing
these robes in the presence of their landlord at his annual feast is valued by these simple
countrymen.

Through the introduction by the landlord of horse labour and ploughs--implements with which
the farmers were formerly unacquainted--second cropping of part of the paddies has become possible.
There is an elaborate system of "progressive reduction" and "average reduction" of rents in
a bad season, by which, it was explained, "the industrious tenant enjoys a larger reduction
than an idle one." "Tenants are grouped in fives, which help one another in their work and
in cases of misfortune." In their agreement with their landlord, tenants promise that "wrong-doing
shall be mutually reprimanded and counsel shall be given one to another." "Again, if a tenant
falls ill, has his house burnt or meets with misfortune, assistance shall be given by his fellows."
During the war with Russia the following instructions were issued:

Those enlisted in the army shall render their service at the cost of their lives.

Those who stay at home shall do their best, complying with the principles laid down by the
Minister of Agriculture.

Relatives of soldiers at the front shall be helped and sympathised with.

All shall subscribe to war bonds as much as possible.

All shall practise thrift and economy in accordance with their social standing.

Musical entertainments shall be given up for two years.

Methods proved to be effective in cultivation shall be reported.

In the warm, cloudy days insects multiply rapidly. Think of your brothers at the front, struggling
against one of the mighty military powers of the world, and be ashamed to be vanquished by
hordes of insects or masses of vegetable growth in your fields. For the purpose of destroying
insects an ample supply of oil is to be had at the experimental farm, as during last year;
and payment therefor may be deferred until after harvest.

A communication to agents and managers says: "Comport yourselves in a way suitable to the dignity
of an agent of the clan. Bear in mind the privileges and favours you enjoy, and exert yourselves
to requite these favours. Respect the name and the coat-of-arms of the clan." In the neighbourhood
there are about a hundred families bearing the name of Homma.

FOOTNOTES:

[158] In the three years 1916-18 the percentage of conscripts suffering from trachoma was 15.8.

[159] For farmers' budgets, see Appendix XIII (end).

BACK AGAIN BY THE EAST COAST

CHAPTER XXII

"BON" SONGS AND THE SILENT PRIEST

(YAMAGATA, AKITA,[160] AOMORI, IWATE, MIYAGI, FUKUSHIMA AND IBARAKI)

The worst of our education is that it looks askance, looks over its shoulder at sex.--R.L.S.

A village headman, encountered in the train just as we were leaving Yamagata prefecture, gave
me some insight into the life of his little community. The fathers of two-score families were
shopkeepers and tradesmen--- that is, tradesmen in the old meaning of the word. There were
also a few labourers. About two hundred and fifty families owned land and some of them rented
additional tracts. Another sixty were simply tenants. The poorer farmers were also labourers
or artisans. Most of them were "comfortable enough." There were, however, half a dozen people
in the village who were helped from village funds. Of the middle-grade farmers "it might be
said that they do not become richer or poorer."

The headman had formed a society which sent its members to visit prefectures more developed
agriculturally. This society had engaged an instructor from without the prefecture and he had
taught horse tillage and the management of upland fields and had made model paddies. Five stallions
had been obtained and a simple adjustment of paddy-land had been brought about. As a result
the rice yield had risen.

This headman had also had addresses delivered in the village for the first time. Further, after
buying a number of books, he had visited all the villagers in turn and shown them the books
and had said to each of them, "I wish you to buy a book and, after reading it, to give it to
the library." "And," he told me, "none of them objected." Soon a valuable library came into
existence.

This admirable functionary felt some satisfaction at having been able to abate the custom according
to which the young men, with the tacit permission of their parents, had gone into the neighbouring
town after harvest "to visit the immoral women." "They used to spend as much as 5 yen," said
our headman. He had started worthier forms of after-harvest relaxation, and "the cost of the
amusement days is now only 50 or 60 sen."

When we got on the main line again and pursued our way farther north, it was through even stouter
snow shelters and through many tunnels. Not a few miserable dwellings were to be seen as we
passed into Akita prefecture. We broke our journey after some hours' travelling to stay the
night at a rather primitive hot spring inn four or five miles up in the hills. A slight rain
was falling. Four passengers at a time made the ascent to the hotel, squatting on a mat in
an old contractor's wagon, pushed along roughly laid rails by two perspiring youths in rain-cloaks
of bark strips. At the inn, on going to the bath, I found therein a miscellaneous collection
of people of both sexes from grandparents to grandchildren. One bather enlivened us by performances
on the flute, which, if a musical instrument must be played in a bath, seems as suitable as
any. In this rambling inn there were many farmers who, by preparing their own food and doing
for themselves generally, were holiday-making at bedrock prices.

As it was the Bon season, when the spirits of the dead are supposed to return, I was a witness
of the method adopted to help the ghosts to find their old homes. At the top of a 30 or 40
ft. pole a lantern is fixed with a pulley. Fastened up beside the lantern is a bunch of green
stuff, cryptomeria in many cases. The lantern is lighted each evening for a week. Having heard
a good deal about the suppression of Bon dances and songs I was interested when a fellow-guest
began talking about them. He had seen many Bon dances and had heard many Bon songs. There can
be no doubt that there has been some unenlightened interference with the Bon gathering. The
country people seem to be suffering from the determination of officialdom to make an end of
everything in country as well as town that may be considered "uncivilised" by any foreigner,
however ill instructed. In towns the sexes are not accustomed to meet, but country people must
work together; therefore they find it natural to dance and sing together. As to the Bon songs,
it is common sense that expressions which may be regarded as outrageous and indecent in a drawing-room
may not be so terrible on a hilltop among rustics used to very plain speech and to easy recognition
of natural facts that are veiled from townspeople. My chance acquaintance at the inn recited
a number of Bon songs and next morning brought me some more that he had remembered and had
been kind enough to write down. They merely established the fact that bucolic wit is as elemental
in Japan as in other lands. Most of the songs had a Rabelaisian touch, some were nasty, but
nearly all had wit. The following is an entirely harmless example:

        Mr. Potato of the Countryside
        Got his new European suit.
        But a potato is still a potato.
        He took one and a half rin[161] out of his bag
        And bought amé[162] and licked at it.

Here are three others:

        Tip-toe, tip-toe,
        Creaks the floor.
        Girl made prayer,
        Dreading ghost.
        But 'twas her lover
        Who stealthily came.

        Dancer, dancer,
        Do not laugh at me.
        My dance is very bad,
        But I only began last year.

        How thin a thin-legged man may be
        If he does not take his miso soup.[163]

The quality of these dramatic songs will be entirely missed if the reader does not bear in
mind the mimetic skill of the amateur Japanese dancer and his power as a contortionist. Clever
dancers often use their powers in a humorous pretence of clumsiness. Of the freer sort of songs
I may quote two:

        Never buy vegetables in Third Street,[164]
        You'll lose 30 sen and your nose.

        Onions from a basket hanging in the benjo[165]
        Were cooked in miso[166] and given to a blind man,
        But that chap was greatly delighted.

Some of the other songs may be described, I suppose, as obscene, if obscene be, as the dictionary
says, "something which delicacy, purity and decency forbid to be exposed"; but "delicacy, purity
and decency" must be considered in relation to climate, work and social usage. What one feels
about some critics of Bon songs and dances is that they need a course of The Golden Bough.
Such an illustration as Bon songs furnish of the moral and mental conditions from which country
folk must raise themselves is of value if rural sociology is a real thing. There is far too
much theorising about the countryman and the countrywoman, far too much idealising of them
and far too much rating of them as clods. If country people of all lands are free-spoken let
us be neither hypercritical nor hypocritical. A big gap seems to yawn between the paddy-field
peasant in his breech clout and the immaculate clubman, but what difference is there between
the savour of the average Bon song and of many a smoking-room jest which is not to the credit
of the peasant? At an inn in Naganoken a Japanese artist on holiday showed me his sketch book.
Among his drawings was a representation of a shrine festival which he had witnessed in a remote
village. A festival car was being pushed by a knot of youths and by about an equal number of
young women and all of them were nude. But no enlightened person believes that either decency
or morals depends on clothing, or would expect to find more essential indecency and immorality
in that village than in a modern city. What one would expect to find would be marriages between
physically well-developed men and women.

