If the first mentioned opinion were correct, those certainly would be right who identify the
progress of sciences with the progress of atheism; and ignorance would then be the most effective
protection of piety. But this opinion is in direct conflict with all sound religious and scientific
reasoning. It is in conflict with sound religious reasoning: for the religious view of the
world sees in nature itself, with its whole association of causes and effects, a work of God;
and as certainly as, according to the religious view of nature, a thousand years in the sight
of God are but as yesterday when it is past, just so certainly is an object a work of {255}
God, whether its origin is due to milliards of well-known secondary causes, which all together
are works of God--as well with reference to the laws which they obey as to the materials and
forces in which these laws are active--or whether, when treating the question as to the immediate
cause of its existence, we see ourselves led to an agency unknown to us. And that opinion is
also in conflict with all sound scientific reasoning: for the fact that we do not have any
knowledge of the immediate cause of a phenomenon, is by no means a proof that this immediate
cause is the direct action of God who does not use any secondary causes; the phenomena may
just as well have still more material or immaterial secondary causes, unknown to us. We will
illustrate the error, referred to, by an example which will also reveal its relationship to
the other error of which we shall have to speak immediately. It is certainly no evidence of
an especially intensive piety, if we build the conviction that God is the Creator of man, among
other things, on the obscurity in which for us the origin of mankind is wrapped. For from this
obscurity no other conclusion can be drawn than increased proofs of the limitation of our knowledge;
that piety which traces those phenomena whose natural causes we know, just as decidedly to
the causality of God, is much more--we shall not say, intensive, but correctly guided--than
that piety which traces back those whose natural causes are hidden to us. And, on the other
hand, it is also no evidence of especial religious coolness or indifference, when we pursue
with interest and the desire of success the attempts at bringing light into the history of
the origin of mankind. He who does the latter can, according to his religious or {256} irreligious
standpoint, just as easily connect his interest with the hope of an enrichment of his knowledge
of the ways and works of God, as with the hope of a confirmation in his atheistic view of the
world. The reverence with which we stand before the action of God in those works whose existence
is in a higher degree a mystery to us than the existence of others (for in reality everything
is a mystery to us), is perhaps a little differently modified from the reverence with which
we stand before the action of God in those of his works in the mode of whose origin we are
permitted to get a deeper glance; but each is reverence, and we can get from both nutriment
for our religious nature.

Those who favor the second error--namely, that the idea of creation excludes the idea of secondary
causes--overlook the facts that the idea of the creation of the universe is essentially different
from the idea of the creation of the single elements of the universe, as, for instance, of
the earth, of the organisms, of man; that the idea of a creation without secondary causes can
only be applied to the origin of the universe in its elements, forces, and laws, and that the
first origin of the single elements in the world--as of the single planets, organisms, man--not
only admits the action of secondary causes, but even requires and presupposes the action of
conditions. For all single species of beings which have originated within the already existing
world, have also certain elements, even the whole basis and condition of their existence, in
common with that which was already before in existence; the planet has its elements in common
with the elements of other planets, the organic has the same material substances as the inorganic,
man has {257} the elements and the organization of his body as well as a great part of his
psychical activity in common with animals. Nothing urges us to suppose--and the analogy of
all that we know even forbids us to suppose--that with the appearance of a new species of beings,
the same matter and the same quality of matter which the last appearance has in common with
the already existing, has each time been called anew into existence out of nothing. Only that
which in the new species is really new, comes into existence anew with its first appearance.
But we do not even know whether the proximate cause of this new does really come into existence
for the first time, or whether it was not before in existence in a real, perhaps latent, condition,
and is now set free for the first time. In the one case as in the other, we shall call the
new, which comes into existence, a new creation. And if man thinks that the new only deserves
the name of creation, when it occurs suddenly and at once, where before only other things were
present, like a deus ex machina, certainly such an opinion is only a childlike conception,
which becomes childish as soon as we scientifically reason about the process. It cannot be
doubtful that religious minds which are not accustomed to scientific reasoning, have such a
conception; whether theologians also favor it, we do not know, although it is possible. Certainly
those scientists who intend to attack the faith in a living Creator and Lord of the world,
take it as the wholly natural, even as the only possible, conception of a Creator and his creation;
and of course it is to them a great and cheap pleasure to become victorious knights in such
a puppet-show view of the conception of creation. But the source whence Christians derive their
{258} religious knowledge tells them precisely the contrary. The Holy Scripture, it is true,
sees in the entire universe a work of God. But where it describes the creation of the single
elements of the world, it describes at the same time their creation as the product of natural
causes, brought about by natural conditions. The reader may see, for instance, the words: "And
God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, etc. And the earth brought
forth grass and herb," etc. "And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature."
Even the creation of man is thus related: "And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground."
Certainly the forming presupposes a matter out of which man is formed. And, on the other hand,
where the Bible speaks of single beings in the kingdoms long before created and perfected,
of the individual man who is originated by generation and birth, of single plants and animals--in
general, of single processes and phenomena in the world long before perfected, of wind and
waves, of rain and flames, which altogether have their natural causes of origin--it speaks
of them all precisely in the same way as when describing their first creation as works of God.
The expressions "create, make, form, cause to appear," are applied to the single individuals
of the kingdoms long before created, precisely in the same way as they are to the first origin
of the first individuals of those kingdoms.

Thus, by the full freedom which religious interest gives to scientific investigation, we are
well prepared to treat with entire impartiality the question as to the position of each of
the Darwinian theories in reference to theism. {259}

§ 2. The Descent Theory and Theism.

In the first part of our investigation, we found that the idea of the origin of the species,
especially of the higher organized species, through descent from the next related lower ones,
has a high degree of probability, although it is still not proven in a strictly scientific
sense, and although especially the supposition of an often-separated primitive generation of
single types is not excluded by that idea, and we can hardly suppose that the main types of
the animal kingdom are developed out of one another. Now we are far from asking of religion
to decide for itself in favor of the one or the other mode of conception, or to place its influence
in the one or the other balance-scale of scientific investigations. It leaves the answering
of these questions exclusively to natural science, knowing beforehand that it will be able
to come to an understanding with the one as well as with the other result of its investigations.
But we confess frankly that it is incomparably easier for us to bring the origin of the higher
groups of organisms in accord with a theistic and teleological view of the world through descent
than the origin of each single species of organisms through a primitive generation; and we
reach this result especially by the attempt at teleologically perceiving the palæontological
remains of organic life on earth. Theism and teleology see in the origin of things a striving
towards a goal, a rising from the lower to the higher, a development--it is true a development
really taken only in the ideal sense of an ideal connection, of a plan; or, as K. E. v. Baer,
in 1834, in his lecture on the most common law of nature in all development, expresses {260}
himself, of a progressive victory of mind over matter. Such a plan and its realization we can
much more easily conceive when, in the past genera which geological formations show us, a genealogical
connection takes place between the preceding species and the now living species, than when
each species perished and beside or after it the newly appearing species always originated
out of the inorganic through primitive generation. In the first case, we see in the preceding
a real preparation for the following, and also easily perceive, the apparent waste of enormous
periods of time for the successive processes of creation. In the second case, the coming and
going of genera in innumerable thousands of years, without any exterior connection, becomes
an incomprehensible problem, and the striving towards an end according to a regular plan, which
we observe in the development, of the organic kingdoms on earth, disappears completely in metaphysical
darkness.

Precisely because so many advocates of a theistic view of the world have thought that for the
sake of the theistic idea of creation they were obliged to suppose a primitive origin of all
the organic species, and because, nevertheless, the fact is patent that in the course of the
pre-historic thousands of years myriads of species came and perished, not to return again,
they became liable to the reproach on the part of the adversaries of theism, that the Creator,
as they supposed him, makes unsuccessful attempts, which he has to throw away, as the potter
a defective vessel, until he finally succeeds in making something durable and useful; and this
objection was and is still made, not only to these superficial theists and their unhappily-selected
and indefensible position, but to {261} the whole view of the world of theism itself and to
the faith in God and the Creator in general.

For all these reasons, we can from the religious point of view but welcome the idea of a descent
of species. Philologists have, if we are correctly informed, the canon that as a rule the more
difficult text is the more correct one; but we doubt whether those should adopt this canon
who try to read in the book of nature, whether with the eye of science or with that of religion--unless
the faculty of reasoning is given to us in order to conceal the truth.

But, we have also to look for a manner of reconciling theism with all the different possibilities
under which a descent is at all reasonable and conceivable. One of these possibilities is that
of an entirely successive development of species out of one another by imperceptibly small
transitions; and of this we shall soon speak. Another is the possibility of a descent by leaps,
through a metamorphosis of germs or a heterogenetic generation. The real causes of such a heterogenetic
generation, if it took place at all, have not yet been found; therefore we have to treat only
of the abstract possibilities of its conceivableness. There are two such possibilities.

The birth of a new species took place in one of two ways: Either to those materials and forces
which formed the germ of the new species, were added entirely new metaphysical agencies which
did not exist before, and only the basis and the frame within which the new appeared, or that
which the new species has in common with the old mother-species had the cause of its existence
in the preceding. Likewise even the original productions {262} of man are always composed of
two factors--of the given pre-suppositions and conditions, and of the new which on their basis
and within their frame comes into existence. Otherwise the causes of the new which was to originate
already lay in all former stages, but were still latent and still hindered in their activity,
and only at the time of the birth the new impulse came which set them free for their activity.
This new impulse may very well belong to the causal connection of the universe, and be caused
by something analogous to natural selection.

In the first case, which in its application to the origin of man is adopted by A. R. Wallace
and Karl Snell, the reconciliation between descent and theism has not the least difficulty;
for if the agency which in the new-appearing species produces that which is specifically new
in it, came only into existence with the first formation of the germs of the new species in
the mother-species, this new certainly cannot have its origin anywhere else than in the supermundane
prima causa in the Creator and Lord of the world.

In the second case also, theism is in no way threatened. For if we have to refer the cause
of a new phenomenon in the world so far back as even to the beginning and the first elements
of all things, we nevertheless have to arrive at last at the cause of all causes; and this
is the living God, the Creator and Lord of the world. Thus the new form of existence would
anyhow have the cause of its existence in God; and the value, the importance, and the substance
of its existence, would only commence from where it really made its appearance, and not from
where its still latent causes existed. As little as we attribute to the just fecundated {263}
egg of man the value of man, although we know that under the right conditions the full man
is to be developed out of it, just so little in accordance with that view would the differences
of value within the created world be dissolved in a mass of atoms or potencies of a similar
value. Neither should we have to fear that from such a theory cold deism would be substituted
for our theism, full of life. For as certainly as theism does not exclude, but includes, all
that is relative truth in deism, so certainly the supposition that the Creator had laid the
latent causes of all following creatures in the first germs of the created, would also not
exclude the idea of a constant and omnipotent presence of the Creator in the world. Undoubtedly
it belongs to our most elementary conceptions of God, that we have to conceive his lofty position
above time, not as an abstract distance from finite development, but, as an absolute domination
over it; so that for God himself, who creates time and developments in time, there is no dependence
on the temporal succession of created things, and it is quite the same to him whether he instantly
calls a creature into existence, or whether he prepares it in a short space of time, or years,
or in millions of years. In this idea we also find the only possible and simple solution of
the before-mentioned problem of a timeless time which Fr. Vischer wishes to propose to philosophy.

§ 3. The Evolution Theory and Theism.

In speaking of an evolution theory, in distinction from the descent theory, we mean, as is
evident from the first part of our work, that way and mode of {264} constructing the doctrine
of the descent of species which permit this descent to take place, not by the leaps of a metamorphosis
of germs, but by transitions so imperceptably small that the difference of two generations
which lie in the same line of descent, is never greater than those differences which always
take place between parents and children of the same species--transitions so gradual that only
the continuation of these individual changes in a single direction produces an increase and,
finally and gradually, the new species. The treatment of the question as to what position this
evolution theory takes regarding theism, is even more simple than answering the question as
to the position of the descent idea in reference to theism.

For now we have no longer to discuss the different possibilities of a development, as heretofore
we have discussed those of a descent, but only the idea of a gradual development or of an evolution
in general. Of such possibilities, it is true, we find several. In the first place, we can
look for the inciting principle of the development of species either in the interior of organisms,
or we can see it approaching the latter from without. The only scientific system which has
made any attempt at mentioning and elaborating the inciting principle of development is that
of Darwin; a system that chooses the second of the alternatives just stated and sees the essential
principle that makes the transmission of individuals a progress beyond one species, approaching
the individuals from without. But while we shall have to treat of this specific Darwinian theory--the
selection theory--still more in detail in the following section, we shall also there have to
point, out {265} everything that theism has to say in reference to a principle of development
which approaches the organisms from without. Another possible explanation of the origin of
species through development is to be found in the fact that we look for the inciting principle
of development in the interior of organisms. This is done, so far as we know, by all those
scientists who, although inclined to an evolution theory, are adversaries of the selection
theory; but none of them claim to have found the inciting agencies of development. Thus, as
in the preceding section, we are again referred only to the wholly abstract possibility of
conceiving these inciting agencies either as coming into existence anew in the organism with
each smallest individual modification which leads to a development of the species, or as being
before present in the organisms, but still latent, and only coming into activity when they
are set free. But the question whether theism could accept the one or the other possibility
had to be treated of in the preceding section, and was there answered in the affirmative.

Thus it only remains to treat in general of the question as to the reconcilableness of the
idea of the origin of species through evolution, through gradual development, in general with
a theistic view of the world.

In the first place, we wish to render evident the fact which is so often overlooked by the
friends of monism and still more by theistic adversaries of the idea of evolution, that the
idea of a development of species, and also of man, does not offer to theistic reasoning any
new or any other difficulties than those which have been long present, and which had found
their solution in the religious consciousness long before any idea of evolution disturbed the
{266} mind. It is true, the question as to the origin of mankind is, to speak in the language
of natural history, a still unsolved problem; and the supposition of its gradual development
out of the animal kingdom is still an hypothesis--one of all those attempts at solving this
problem which still wait for confirmation or refutation. But there is another quite analogous
question whose position has long ceased to be a mere problem, and whose solution is no longer
a mere hypothesis; namely, the question as to the origin of the perfect human or any other
organic individual. To speak again in the language of natural history, this origin is no longer
a problem--that is, without regard to the obscurity in which the existence and origin of every
creature, as to its last causes, is always and will always be veiled for us. We know that the
human, and, in general, every organic individual, becomes that which it is through development.
It begins the course of its being with the existence of a single cell, the egg, and goes through
all stages of this development by wholly gradual and imperceptible transitions, so that the
precise moment cannot exactly be fixed when any organ, any physical or psychical function,
comes into existence, until perfect man is developed. Man has this mode of coming into existence
in common with all organized beings, down to the lowest organisms which stand above the value
and rank of a single cell. At this place, and with the design of our present discussion in
view, we ought not to render the importance of this fact obscure by a teleological comparison
of the different eggs and germs with one another. If we look upon that which is to come out
of the germs, and which certainly if prepared and present in the first vital functions of the
{267} germ, although we are not able to observe, prove, and estimate it by means of the microscope
and the retort, then of course the difference in the value of the germs must be immense; and
from this point of view we certainly look upon the germ of man differently than upon the germ
of an oyster. But here the question is not as to the differences of value of organisms: no
scientist who remains within the limits of his realm, will ever deny them; but we treat of
the question whether such valuable objects come into existence suddenly or gradually--whether
it is possible, or even a fact which repeats itself before our eyes, that a form of being of
higher value comes forth from a form of being of a lower value in gradual development. And
here it is an undisputed fact that all qualities of man, the physical as well as the spiritual,
come into existence in such a gradual development that not in a single one of them can be fixed
any moment of which it may be said: on the other side of this moment it did not exist, but
on this side it did exist. All differentiations of his body, from the first differentiation
of the egg-cell into a complexity of cells up to the last formation of his organs, take place
in the same gliding development. All his psychical and spiritual functions and forces come
into existence in this form of gradual development. Where, in the development of the human
individual, is the moment in which consciousness, language, self-consciousness, memory, will,
the perception of God, moral responsibility, the perception of the idea and the ideal, or whatever
else we may mention, came into existence? Nowhere; all this, and all the rest, is developed
in a gradual process. The only marked time in this development is the time of birth: {268}
it brings a great change into physical life, and is perhaps the beginning epoch of the spiritual
development of man. But even the birth is not absolutely bound to a certain time; the child
may be born too early, by weeks or even months, and its development nevertheless takes place;
and even after birth, how slowly and gradually spiritual development begins and continues!

With this gradual process of individual development which we have long known, we have never
found any difficulty in bringing two things into harmony. First, we always judged the value
of the single qualities of man only in the proportion in which they were really present and
came into existence, and in such a way that we entirely followed the flowing development of
the individual. Therefore we looked upon the suckling, for instance, not at all as a morally
responsible individual; upon the child of two years as more responsible, but to a far less
degree than the child of school-age, and the latter again to a less degree than the man; and
thus we have been long accustomed to reason, when looking upon all single qualities of man.
Second, we did not find any difficulty in bringing into perfect harmony the idea of a gradual
process of individual development and of the dependence of the latter on a complex totality
of natural causes: with the idea of the absolute dependence on God, the Creator, of that which
arose through development. Every religiously reasoning man has always looked upon himself as
the child of his parents, gradually developed under the activity of complex natural causes,
as well as the creature of God, that owes the existence of all its forces and parts of body
and soul to God. Should it then, be so difficult, or is it only {269} something new, to bring
into harmony, when looking upon the entire species and genus, that which we were long ago able
to bring into harmony when looking upon the individual--it being presupposed that the investigation
leads us to a development of the entire species and genus similar to that of the individual
development? Or have we here again to ask, as in § 1: is it more religious to make no attempt
at removing the veil which covers the natural process of the origin of mankind, than to make
it? It is true, the not knowing anything can, under certain circumstances, create and increase
the sensation of reverence for the depth of divine power and wisdom; but a perception of the
ways of God is also certainly able to create the same. On that account, we need not at all
fear that by such an attempt and its eventual success we might get into the shallows of superficiality,
to which nothing seems any longer to be hidden, only because it has no presentiment of the
depths which are to be sounded. There will always remain enough of the mysterious and the uninvestigated,
and each new step forward will only lead to new views, to new secrets, to new wonders.

But does not a development, like that which we here for the moment assume hypothetically, efface
and destroy the specific value of man and mankind from still another side? Would not a beginning
of mankind be really lost, in case that theory of evolution should gain authority? and would
not there still lie between that which is decidedly called animal world and that which is decidedly
called mankind an innumerable series of generations of beings which were neither animal nor
man? We do not believe it. What makes man man, {270} we can exactly point out: it is self-consciousness
and moral self-determination. Now, in case development took place in the above sense, it may
have passed ever so gradually; the epochs of preparation between that which we know as highest
animal development and that which constitutes the substance of man, may have stretched over
ever so many generations, and, if the friends of evolution desire it, we say over ever so many
thousands of generations; yet that which makes man man--self-consciousness and moral self-determination--must
have always come into actual reality in individuals. Those individuals in which self-consciousness
came into existence and activity, for the first time, and with it the entire possibility of
the world of ideas--the consciousness of moral responsibility, and with it also the entire
dignity of moral self-determination--were the first men. The individuals which preceded the
latter may have been ever so interesting and promising as objects of observation, if we imagine
ourselves spectators of these once supposed processes; yet, they were not men.

§ 4. The Selection Theory and Theism.

The last scientific theory whose position in reference to theism we have to discuss, is the
selection theory.

We have found but little reason for sympathizing with this theory. But since we believed that
we were obliged to suspect it, not for religious but for scientific reasons, so the completeness
of our investigation requires us to assume hypothetically that the selection principle really
manifests itself as the only and exclusive principle of the origin of species, and to ask now
what position it would in such a case take in reference to theism. {271}

The only answer we are able to give is decidedly favorable to theism.

It is true, development would in such a case approach the organisms merely from without. For
the principle lying within the organisms, which would then be the indispensable condition of
all development, would be first the principle in itself, wholly without plan or end, of individual
variability; second, the principle of inheritance which for itself and without that first principle
is indeed no principle of development, but the contrary. The causes from which the single individuals
vary in such or such a way, would then be the outer conditions of life and adaptation to them:
i.e., something coming from without. And the causes from which one individual, varying in such
or such a way, is preserved in the struggle for existence, and another, varying differently,
perishes, would be approaching the individuals also from without; hence they are a larger or
smaller useful variation for the existence of the individual.

Now if, through these influencing causes of development, approaching the most simple organisms
from without, a rising line of higher and higher organized beings comes finally into existence
(a line in which sensation and consciousness, finally self-consciousness and free-will, appear)
we again reach the teleological dilemma: all this has either happened by chance, or it has
not. No man who claims to treat this question earnestly and in a manner worthy of respect,
will assert that it happened by chance, but by necessity. But with this word the materialist
only hides or avoids the necessity of supposing a plan and end in place of chance, as we have
convinced ourselves in Part I, Book II, Chap. II, § 1. {272} The only exception in this case
is, that the bearer and agent of this plan would not be the single organism (as is easily possible
when we accept a descent theory which is more independent from the selection theory), but the
collection of all forces and conditions, acting upon the organism from without. And for the
question, whence this plan and its realization comes, we had again but the one answer: from
a highest intelligence and omnipotence, from the personal God of theism. The locus of creation
and the locus of providence would now, as ever, retain their value in the theological system,
with the sole exception that most of that which so far belonged to the locus of creation would
now belong, in a higher degree than in the hitherto naturo-historical view, to the locus of
providence and of the government of the world. When looked upon from the theocentric point
of view, the new forms which we had to suppose as called into existence only by selection,
would remain products of divine creation: the "God said, and it was so," would retain its undiminished
importance; but looked upon from the cosmic point of view, they would present themselves as
products of the divine providence and government of the world, still more exclusively than
in every principal of explanation which finds the causes of development in the organisms themselves
or in an immaterial cause acting upon the organisms from within. The first as well as the second
point of view is in full harmony with the religious view of things.

We do not conceal that on the ground of all other analogies we sympathize more with those who
look for the determining influences of the origin of new species rather within than without
nature, and who, while {273} looking at that which the higher species have in common with the
lower, do not forget or neglect the new, the original, which they possess. But we are indeed
neither obliged nor entitled, in the name of religion, to take beforehand in the realm of scientific
investigation the side of the one or the other direction of investigation, or even of the one
or the other result of investigation, before it is arrived at. Let us unreservedly allow scientists
free investigation in their realm, so long as they do not meddle with ethical or religious
principles, and quietly await their results. These results, when once reached, may correspond
ever so closely with our present view and our speculative expectations, or in both relations
be ever so surprising and new; the one case as well as the other has already happened: at any
rate they will not affect our religious principles, but only enrich our perception of the way
and manner of divine activity in the world, and thereby give new food and refreshment, to our
religious life.

We still have to discuss the position of theism in reference to the philosophic problems to
which a Darwinistic view of nature sees itself led, and in the first place its position in
reference to the naturo-philosophic theories with which the descent idea tries to complete itself.

In the first part of our book, we have found that not {274} a single one of the naturo-philosophic
problems before which the descent idea places us, is really solved: neither the origin of self-consciousness
and of moral self-determination, nor the origin of consciousness and of sensation, nor the
origin of life; and even the theory of atoms, although it is quite important and indispensable
for the natural philosopher and chemist according to the present state of his knowledge and
investigation, has not yet been able to divest itself of its hypothetical character. Religion
might, therefore, refuse to define its position in reference to theories which are still of
a quite problematic and hypothetical nature. But by giving such a refusal, religion would not
act in its own interest. The reproach is often made that it has an open or hidden aversion
to the freedom of scientific investigation--a reproach which, it is true, is often enough provoked
by its own advocates; often the assertion is made by advocates of free investigation, that
free science has led, or can lead at any moment, to results which shake or even destroy theism
and with it the objective and scientifically established truth of a religious view of the world.
The consequence of this assertion is exactly, as before-mentioned, that minds whose religious
possession is to them an inviolable sanctuary, and who lack time and occasion, inclination
and ability, to examine scientifically these asserted results of science, really suspect free
science and contest the right of its existence. Another consequence of this state of war between
religion and science is the fact that so many minds in both camps fall into a servile dependence
upon battle-cries: they confound freedom of investigation with license; science with apathy
or {275} hostility to faith; faith with lack of scientific perception, blind unreasoning belief,
etc. Such a state of affairs does not, indeed, serve the interests of peace and truth; only
a correct treatment of philosophy as well as of religion can lead to them.

Such a way of peace and truth from the side of religion and its scientific treatment is entered
upon, when religion sets itself right, not only with all real, but also with all conceivable,
possible results of the other sciences, not only of the exact, but also of the philosophic
sciences. If it finds, in such an investigation, that such conceivable results are reconcilable
with the theistic view of the world which is the basis of religion, it has already shown its
relationship to the freedom of investigation. But if it finds anywhere a possible result which
is in conflict with its theistic view of the world, it is obliged to examine the mutual grounds
of dissent, as to the degree of their truth and their power of demonstration; and in case its
own position is the stronger, better founded, and more convincing, to prove this fact. If it
does this, it again acts according to the principle of free investigation--with the single
difference that in such a case it not only makes this allowance to the opponent, but also uses
this principle for itself in its own realm and especially in the border land between itself
and its opponent; but at the same time it shows in this case (what, indeed, so many are inclined
to deny), that religion also has its science, and that theology itself is this science, and
has the same rights as the sciences which are built up in the realm of material things or of
abstract reasoning.

We therefore assume hypothetically, that the origin {276} of self-consciousness and of moral
self-determination is fully explained by consciousness; the origin of consciousness and sensation
by that which has no sensation; the origin of the living and organic by the lifeless and inorganic;
and that atomism also is scientifically established and proven: how, then, would such a theory
of the world and theism stand in respect to each other? By this assumption, we think we should
simply stand again at the point, the basis of which we had to discuss in Part I, Book II, Chap.
II, § 1, when treating of teleology. We should always see something new, something harmoniously
arranged: a process of objects of value, continually rising higher and higher, coming forth
out of one another in direct causal connection; and should have a choice of one of two ways
of explaining this process. We should either have to be satisfied with this final causal connection,
and perceive in this process itself its highest and last cause, in doing which we should be
obliged again to deny order and plan in this process, to reject the category of lower and higher
and the acknowledgment of a striving towards an end in these developments, and after having
climbed to that Faust-height of investigation and knowledge, to throw ourselves in spiritual
suicide back into the night and barbarism of chaos, or of a rigid mechanism to which all development,
all life, all spiritual and ethical tasks, are but appearance; or we should have to treat the
idea of development seriously and recognize a plan and a striving towards an end in this world-process,
and should then find ourselves referred to a higher intelligence and a creative will as the
highest and last cause which appoints the end and conditions of this process. This would be
the case still more, as we actually {277} see that at present the single beings which stand
on a lower stage of existence no longer produce beings of a higher stage, although, according
to that theory whose correctness we now assume hypothetically, the elements and factors for
the production of those higher forms of existence are fully present in the lower ones. Inorganic
matter no longer produces organisms; the lower species of plants or animals no longer develop
higher ones; the animal no longer becomes man; and yet there were periods, lying widely apart,
in which, according to that theory, such things took place. What else set free those active
causes, at the right time and in the right place? What else closed again at the precise place
and moment the valves of the proceeding development, and brought to rest again the inciting
force of the rising development?--what else but the highest end-appointing intelligence and
omnipotence?

Even the inherent qualities of the elements, and the products of all the higher forms of existence
which in the future shall arise out of them, the whole striving toward an end of the processes
in the world, would present itself to us much more vividly than now, where we are still in
the dark as to all these questions. We should see in atoms the real inherent qualities of all
things and processes which are to be developed out of them; in the inorganic the real inherent
qualities for the organic and living; in that which has no consciousness and sensation the
real inherent qualities for self-consciousness. Instead of being now obliged to recur to the
ideal and metaphysical, we should see the threads of the world's plan uncovered before us in
empirical reality; and far from bearing with it an impoverishment of our {278} consciousness
of God, all this would bring us only an immense enrichment of its contents; for with such an
enlargement of our knowledge, we should only be permitted to take glances into the way and
manner of divine creation and action--glances of a depth which at present we are far from being
permitted to take.

Even very concrete parts of a theistic view of the world, as they present themselves to us--e.g.,
in the Holy Scripture, from its most developed points of view--would now find only richer illustrations
than heretofore. St. Paul, for instance, in Rom. viii, speaks of the earnest expectation of
the creature that waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. As to the present state
of our knowledge of nature, those who adopt this view are only entitled to see in the sensation
of pain of the animal world a sensation of this longing, unconscious of the end; but as to
all soulless and lifeless beings and elements in the world, they can see in these words of
a sighing and longing creation only a strong figurative expression used because of its suitableness
to denote suffering of the animal world, as well as of men,--for the destination of the world
to another and higher existence in which the law of perishableness and suffering no longer
governs. On the other hand, if, as we assume hypothetically, all higher forms of existence
in the world could be explained out of the preceding lower ones, and if the before-mentioned
theorem of a sensation of atoms should form a needed and correct link in that chain of explanation,
those words of sighing and longing would have to be literally taken in a still more comprehensive
sense than now and in their directly literal meaning {279} would refer not only to the animal
world but indeed to everything in the world.

Therefore, so long as attempts at explaining the different forms of existence in the world
wholly from one another keep within their own limits, and do not of themselves undermine theism;
and so long as there are men who on the one hand favor such a mode of explanation and on the
other hand still adhere firmly to a faith in God, whether it be the deeper theism or the more
shallow and superficial deism--so long religion has no reason for opposing those attempts at
explanation. And there are such men; we need only to mention Huxley, whose position in reference
to religion we have already discussed; or Oskar Peschel, who, in his "Völkerkunde" ("Ethnology"),
says: "It is not quite clear how pious minds can be disturbed by this theory; for creation
obtains more dignity and importance if it has in itself the power of renewal and development
of the perfect." Even Herbert Spencer, with his idea of the imperceptibility of the super-personal,
of the final cause of all things, is still a living proof of the fact that man can trace the
mechanism of causality back to its last consequences and, as Spencer does, even derive consciousness
and sensation from that which is without sensation, and yet not necessarily proceed so far
as negation of a living God, even if he persists in his refusal to perceive in general the
ultimate cause of things.

To meet those attempts, religion would have to take only two precautionary measures on two
closely related points; and in doing this it would indeed make use of that before-mentioned
right to defend freedom of {280} investigation both in its own realm and in the border-territory.

One precaution would consist in the requirement of the acknowledgment that even in that purely
immanent mode of explanation the idea of value is fixed, but that the value of the new appears
only when the new itself really comes into existence; that we therefore do not call, e.g.,
the inorganic living, because according to that mode of explanation life develops itself out
of it; and that we do not ascribe to the animal the value of man, because according to that
mode of explanation it also includes the causes of the development of man. Such a discrimination
of ideas is indeed a scientific postulate, as we have had occasion to show at many points of
our investigation; and we also complied with this requirement long ago in that realm of knowledge
which is related to these questions as to the origin of things, but is more accessible and
open to us, namely, in the realm of the development of the individual. We have spoken of this
at length in § 3. But in the interest of religion also we have to request that the differences
of value of things be retained, even when man thinks he is able to explain their origin merely
out of one another. For without this, all things would finally merge simply into existences
of like value; man would stand in no other relation to God than would any other creature, irrational
or lifeless; and the quintessence of religious life--the relation of mutual personal love between
God and man, the certainty of being a child of God--would be illusory when there should no
longer be a difference of value between man and animal, animal and plant, plant and stone. {281}

Many a reader thinks, perhaps, that with this precaution we make a restriction which is wholly
a matter of course, and that nobody would think of denying these differences of value. Häckel,
in his "Anthropogeny," repeatedly reproaches man with the "arrogant anthropocentric imagination"
which leads him to look upon himself as the aim of earthly life and the centre of earthly nature;
this, he says, is nothing but vanity and haughtiness. Several writers in the "Ausland" faithfully
second him in this debasement of the value of man. Its editor ("Ausland," 1874, No. 48, p.
957), for instance, reproaches Ludwig Noiré, although he otherwise sympathizes with him, that
in his book "Die Welt als Entwicklung des Geistes" ("The World as Development of Mind"), Leipzig,
Veit & Co., 1874, he still takes this anthropocentric standpoint and can say: "The anthropocentric
view recognizes in man's mind the highest bloom of matter, which has attained to the possession
of a soul." This, Häckel says, is nothing else but the former conception, not yet overcome,
that man is the crown of creation. This pleasure in debasing the value of man is also a characteristic
sign of the times. K. E. von Baer is right, when, in his "Studies" (page 463), he says: "In
our days, men like to ridicule as arrogant the looking upon man as the end of the history of
earth. But it is certainly not man's merit that he has the most highly developed organic form.
He also must not overlook the fact that with this his task of developing more and more his
spiritual gifts has only begun.... Is it not more worthy of man to think highly of himself
and his destination, than, fixing his attention only upon the low, to {282} acknowledge only
the animalic basis in himself? I am sorry to say that the new doctrine is very much tainted
in this direction of striving after the low. I should rather prefer to be haughty than base,
and I well recollect the expression of Kant, 'Man cannot think highly enough of man.' By this
expression the profound thinker especially meant that mankind has to set itself great tasks.
But the modern views are more a palliation of all animal emotions in man."

The other precautionary measure referred to would be, that the realm of mind, and especially
the ethical realm, is not dissolved into a natural mechanism. This precaution is also connected
with the first one, the latter being its condition; for only where it is acknowledged that
causes, so long as they are still latent, do not fall under the same category of value as their
effects, when these are once realized, it can also be acknowledged that the realm of mind and
morality, although it has grown out of the ground of the mechanism of nature, can still have
brought something new and higher into the world. Besides, this precaution is also a postulate
of anthropologic science. For spiritual and ethical facts have at least the same truth and
reality as the material, and a still higher value, and can therefore not permit any injury
to their full recognition. But religion also must require this acknowledgment. For if the specific
activity of mind in man is endangered, we also lose his specific value, and thus get into the
before-mentioned dilemma; and if the moral responsibility of man is endangered, the relation
of man to God loses its ethical character. Of the consequences in reference to morality, we
shall have to speak hereafter. {283}

Moreover, religion does not require this acknowledgment without a rich compensation. For if
that naturo-philosophic mode of explanation, whose correctness we hypothetically assume in
this present section, prove to be right, and if the higher which comes anew into existence
in the world, is to have the full cause of its origin in the preceding lower, such an admission,
in accordance with the laws of logic, by which causa æquat effectum, is only possible when
we either similarly, as above, invalidate all difference between higher and lower, all difference
of value of creatures, and contest the possibility that that which appears anew can also follow
new laws of existence and activity; or when, in the highest cause of all final causes in the
world, we see the full abundance of all those possibilities present as real cause, which afterwards
appear in succession in the world. This highest cause, then, lodges in material things the
final causes of all which is to come, as still latent causes, waiting to be set free; and such
a highest cause as the fullness of all that which is successively to be developed in the world,
is offered to science by religion itself in the idea of a living God. We say expressly, that
religion offers this idea to science, and not that science creates this idea; for the acknowledgment
of God, as we have before had occasion to point out, is in the last instance not a result of
science, but an ethical action of mind,--although from this acknowledgment the brightest light
falls upon science and the whole series of its conclusions, and although science owes to precisely
this idea of God the highest points of view to which it sees itself led and from which alone
it is able to survey its entire realm. {284}

§ 6. Elimination of the Idea of Design or its Acknowledgment and Theism.

In the whole preceding course of our investigation as to the position of religion and theism
regarding the different scientific and naturo-philosophic theories, theism could quietly keep
the position of a friendly and peaceful spectator. The degrees of our sympathy with the theories
which have successively passed before our eyes, were on scientific grounds very unequal; but
on religious grounds, and in the interest of a theistic view of the world, we found ourselves
nowhere induced to take sides for or against a theory. But the position of religion and theism
becomes quite different in reference to the assertion that the existence of ends and designs
in nature is refuted by the evolution theory or by any other hypothetical or real results of
science. With this assertion, the existence of a living and personal God, of a Creator and
Lord of the world, is denied; and every religion which claims objective truth for its basis
is eliminated. It is true, man can under this supposition still speak of a religion in the
sense of subjective religiousness; but the life-nerve is also cut off from this subjective
religiousness. We have repeatedly had occasion to prove this in our historical review, and
also in the section in which we pointed out the plan of our own analysis.

But still, where we have had to represent this anti-teleological view of the world, we have
happily convinced ourselves of the fact that an existence of ends and designs in nature is
not only reconcilable with the conformity to law and the causal mechanism of its processes,
but is {285} also postulated by scientific contemplation of nature, as soon as the latter observes
that in these processes, acting with lawful necessity, something in general is attained, and,
moreover, when out of them comes forth something so infinitely rich and beautifully arranged,
such a rising series of higher and higher developments, as the world. On the other hand, combatting
the striving towards an end in nature leads to such scientific monstrosities, destroys so thoroughly
the idea of God and also all ideas of value in the world, even all spiritual and ethical acquisitions
of mankind, that we can explain the origin of such a doctrine only by the determined purpose
of getting rid, at any cost, of the dependence on a living God: again a proof of the fact that
faith, or want of faith, in its final causes, is not the product of reflecting intelligence,
but an ethical action of that centre of human personality from which the spiritual process
of life in the individual comes forth--an ethical action of mind.

Herewith the position of theism in reference to the elimination of the idea of design is also
soon characterized: it is the position of irreconcilable antagonism. In rejecting the position
of its opponent, theism perceives that it is in harmony not only with every correctly understood
religious need, but equally so with every scientific interest--with the interest of a correct
knowledge of nature, as well as with the interest of those sciences which have to take care
of and try to understand the spiritual and ethical endowments of mankind.

If we now turn our attention to the position of theism in reference to the idea of design in
general, theism on its part also gives an equally firm support to that intimate connection,
proven by natural science, between causality {286} and striving toward an end--between actiology
and teleology, as they are called in the language of the philosophical school. While a contemplation
of nature perceives in nature a mechanism governed by laws and necessities, it finds results
reached through this chain of causality in which it must acknowledge ends toward which the
preceding has striven. Now, theism, on its part, proceeds from the highest end-appointing cause
of things and processes, and finds that the reaching of these ends postulates a mechanism of
natural conformity to law. In order to prove this, we certainly must take a course which is
prohibited by many as anthropomorphism, i.e., we must try to study the connection of ends and
designs, and the possibility of such a connection where we are able to observe in general not
only the accomplishment of purposes, but also the forming of purposes; and the only realm of
this kind which we know of, is the realm of human action. He who, merely through fear of anthropomorphism,
shrinks from this only possible comparison, may consider that for those who assume a highest
end-appointing cause (and we, too, proceed from this standpoint) man also, who forms his designs
and strives toward his ends, is a product of that highest end-appointing cause; and that, therefore,
in the human striving toward an end, a certain analogue of the divine striving toward an end
must occur. We are, indeed, not obliged on this account to identify the two, and to close our
eyes against the immense differences which exist between them, and which, wholly of themselves,
intrude upon our observation. What we mean by that analogy may thus be stated.

Man forms for himself designs and ends, and pursues {287} and reaches them by using the objects
and forces of nature as means. He can do this only because the forces in nature act from necessity,
strictly conformable to law. Because, and so far as man knows the action of forces, conformable
to law, and the inviolable necessity of the connection between certain causes and their effects,
he can select and make use of such causes as means, by virtue of which he reaches those effects
as designs intended by him. If he could not depend on this conformity to law, on this causal
connection taking place according to simple necessities, he could not select, make, and use,
with certainty, any tool, from the club with which he defends himself against his enemies or
cracks the shells of fruit, up to the finest instruments of optics and chemistry, and even
to the telegraph and steam engine. The conformity to law, with which the forces of nature act,
far from being an impediment to his appointing and reaching his ends is much more the indispensable
means by which he is enabled in general to reach them. Now, if we thus find, in the only action
striving towards an end which we are able to observe to the extent of the appointing of ends
and the selection of means--namely, man's end appointing action--such a strong dependence of
finality on causality that the reaching of ends is not possible at all unless the means act
of necessity conformably to law, then we are certainly obliged to draw the conclusion that
the highest author of things has prepared the world so, that the reaching of ends requires
the action of means, and that the category of finality and the category of causality are mutually
prepared for each other. For, according to the theistic and teleological view of the world,
the {288} laws of nature, acting with causality and necessity, are certainly not laws which
the Creator found in some way, and with which he had to calculate as with factors given to
him from somewhere else, in order to make use of them, so far as he was permitted, for the
accomplishment of his designs--this would be the way and manner of human teleological action,
and transferring it to divine action would be an anthropomorphism which we should have to reject.
On the contrary, these laws themselves are the work of the teleologically acting Creator--he,
indeed, will have given to them such a quality that with them he is able to reach his ends
as a whole and in detail. The inviolability of the laws of nature also results from this idea.
For means which would have to be supplemented, sometimes set aside, occasionally replaced by
others, would be less perfect than such means as by virtue of their quality are able with certainty
to serve the designs which are to be reached by them. How theism can reconcile with this view
the indispensable idea of divine freedom, we shall have occasion to show in Chap. II, § 4.

Among the writers who defend teleology, we can mention two who, starting from the analogy of
human teleological action, have pointed out the idea that teleology itself requires a necessity,
conformable to law, in the activity of the forces of nature. One of the two is K. E. von Baer,
in his oft-quoted essays on striving towards end; and the other is the Duke of Argyll. At a
time when the assault against teleology had just begun, this noble author perceived the whole
importance and weight of these attacks, and most energetically defended teleology. The expression
of the just-mentioned ideas, {289} among others, forms one of the fundamentals of his work,
"The Reign of Law" (London, Strahan & Co., first edition published in 1866, and since then
in frequently repeated editions); a work which is well fitted to instruct us, in the most interesting
manner, regarding the present state of the related questions as they are treated of in Great
Britain.

Now that we have come to a clear understanding of the position of the Darwinian theories in
reference to the basis of all religion and of all living religiousness, to theism in general,
it remains to be seen what position those of the theories which are reconcilable with theism
take in reference to the positive Christian view of the world.

We naturally omit all those objects and parts of Christian dogmatics which have no points of
contact, or are very indirectly connected with the Darwinian ideas, or which--as, e.g., their
position in reference to the idea of God in general--have found their principal illustration
in our investigation just finished. We shall nevertheless have now to take into consideration
once more, although from another side, some objects which we have discussed in treating of
the relation of the Darwinian ideas to theism, on account of the specific part which theism
has in Christianity. This is especially the case with those Christian facts which belong to
the first article of the Apostolic Creed, and immediately also with the doctrine of the creation
of the world. {291}

At first sight it seems that the evolution theory and Christianity are in no other place more
sharply opposed to each other than in that of the history of creation. Darwinism claims for
its theory immense periods of time; and geology seems to furnish them according to its demand.
The Holy Scripture, on the other hand, teaches a creation of the world in six days.

With the attempt to find the right way to end this conflict, we enter upon that part of the
border-land between theology and natural science, which, among all others, is most contested,
and which has offered to the most luxuriant fancy the widest field of action and the one most
profitably taken advantage of.

We confess at the outset that we sympathize with those who try to keep the peculiar realms
of religion and natural science apart in such a way that a collision between the two is impossible.
We quietly leave the investigation of the temporal succession in creation--especially the investigation
of all that belongs in the finite causal connection of natural processes--to natural science;
we also do not look to the source of our Christian religion, to the Holy Scripture, for a scientific
manual, least of all for the communication of a knowledge of nature, supernaturally manifested
and claiming divine authority, the acquisition of which is especially the task of scientific
labor. But we bestow just as decidedly upon religion the specific task of showing man the way
to communion with God, especially the way of salvation; a task in which it can as little permit
itself to be hindered by natural science, as the latter in the pursuit of its peculiar tasks
can allow an objection from any source. On the side of religion, the bond of unity which brings
{292} into harmony the two activities of the human mind--the religious and the investigating--in
the realm of nature, and, in general, in the whole realm of exact science, consists in the
fact that in all which exact science offers to religion as the result of its investigation,
the latter perceives and shows the works and ways of God; and on the side of the exact sciences,
the bond consists in the fact that they bring within the reach of their scientific, historical,
literary, culturo-historical, and exegetical investigations all that which in the religious
realm appears, or in the written word is fixed, as historical fact. Religion, therefore, concedes
to exact sciences the full right of examining the biblical records as to all the relations
of their historical and literary connections; it even makes these investigations a quite essential
and, at present, very much favored branch of its own science of theology. On the other hand,
religion reserves just as decidedly to itself the full right of drawing from them, of maintaining,
and of realizing, the whole full religious basis and significance of those records.

We know very well that such a proposition is very simple in principle, but much more difficult
in practice. For the quintessence of that which constitutes the basis of the Christian religion--namely,
the leading back of mankind to communion with God by means of salvation--is not only a philosopheme,
a theoretical or mystic doctrine, but a fact: it comes into the world as a series of divine
facts; it is interwoven by innumerable threads into creation and the course of nature and history;
and, as to this whole aspect of its appearance in the world of phenomena, it falls under the
cognition of the exact sciences. But as soon as any given fact excites the {293} interest of
religion as well as that of exact science, collisions are possible from both sides. Some advocates
of religion, through mistaken zeal for religious interests, may think it necessary to assert
and to represent as indispensable to religion facts whose cognition as to reality belongs only
to exact science and which are contested by exact science; as, e.g., the creation of the world
in six literal days, or the creation of the single elements of the world without the action
of secondary causes. And some advocates of exact science, from reasons of a superficial analogy,
may erroneously think it necessary to dispute the reality of facts, otherwise well attested,
but wanting analogy, in which religion has a central interest; as, e.g., the reality of the
resurrection of Jesus Christ, or the reality of his miracles. Or they may unjustifiably try,
from our experiences in this world, to forbid glances which religion permits us to throw beyond
the present course of the world; e.g., the eschatological hope of Christians is often enough
contested, or as the laws of nature are called eternal in the absolute sense of the word, although
natural science is only led to a recognition of the duration of the same, which is congruent
with the circumstances and duration of this present course of the world.

We are perfectly aware of all these possibilities of a collision, and of all the difficulties
of their prevention and reconciliation; but we nevertheless know of no other way for their
avoidance than that simple principle of agreement which, on account of its simplicity and clearness,
seems to us to be perfectly able to maintain the peace between the two parties interested,
or where it is disturbed, to restore it. {294}

Thus, we wholly agree that in the question of creation the investigation of the succession
and of all modalities in the appearance of the single elements of the world, is entirely left
to natural science, and that the biblical records should on the one hand be investigated wholly,
and even to their remotest consequences, from a literary, historical, and exegetical point
of view, and on the other hand be tested with equal fullness and completeness as to their religious
contents. The literary and exegetical examination of the Mosaic account of creation will reveal
that its conceptions of that which in the creation of the world belongs entirely to the natural
process, do not go beyond that which otherwise belongs to the sphere of knowledge and views
of antiquity, as well as of immediate perception of nature in general; and that we cannot expect
any scientific explanation from it, because man really came last on the stage of earth, and
is therefore not able to say anything, founded upon autopsy, about the origin of all the other
creatures which preceded his appearance. Just as little could the first men possess and deliver
to their offspring a remembrance of the first beginnings of their own existence. Moreover,
the literary and exegetical interpretation of the Bible will also refer to other passages of
the Holy Scripture which entirely differ from the succession of creations, as they are related
in Genesis I; so, e.g., besides Job XXXVIII, 4-11, the second account of creation in Genesis
II, 4-25: again a proof that what we read in the Biblical record of creation about the succession
in the appearance of creatures is not binding upon us. Religion can have nothing to say against
these results; it will not reject the information of man as to the {295} succession and the
modalities in the appearance of the single elements of the world, which it receives from natural
science, and will not expect it by means of a special supernatural manifestation; it will willingly
accept it from natural science, and simply make use of it in such a way that in nature and
its processes it also perceives a manifestation of God. Now, when it examines the different
Biblical accounts of creation as to their religious substance, it will find in them such a
pure and correct idea of divine nature and divine action--such a pure conception, equally satisfying
to mind and to science, of the nature of man, of his position in nature, of the nature and
destination of the two sexes, of the ethical nature and the ethical primitive history of man,--it
will especially have to acknowledge in the Biblical account of creation, in spite of all points
of collision with the cosmogonies of paganism, such an elevation above them, such an exemption
from all theogony, with which heathen cosmogonies are always mixed up, that we are perfectly
right in perceiving in these records the full and unmistakable elements of a pure and genuine
stream of manifestation, which pours into mankind.

So far we find ourselves in full harmony with a theology which, in the manner indicated, reconciles
the religious interest with the historical and critical interest. We find the points of view
to which this perception leads, represented with special clearness and attractiveness in Dillmann's
Revision of Knobel's "Commentar zur Genesis" ("Commentary on Genesis"), Leipzig, Hirzel, 1875.

But it seems to us that a readiness to be just to historical criticism and impartial exegesis
has hindered {296} theologians occupying this standpoint from being just also to the religious
element, in its full meaning, in reference to a very important part of the Mosaic account of
creation, in which the author of it shows quite a decided religious interest. We mean the six
days of creation, together with the seventh day, the divine Sabbath. Theologians became too
quickly satisfied with the exegetical perception of these seven days, as creative, earthly
days, of twenty-four hours; and this hindered them from assigning to the religious meaning
the full importance which these days have in that record. That the idea and the number of the
days in that account have a high religious meaning to the author, is clear from the following:
The account in Genesis I, 1-24, belongs to that series of parts of the Pentateuch which we
call the original, and which has the Sinaitical Law as the centre of its belief. The division
of the days into weeks, each having six working days and one day of rest, which possibly existed
before, but which received obligatory importance to Israel first by the Sinaitical legislation,
so far controls that account of the creation of the world that, next to the sublime perception
of the dignity and position of man, it forms its very quintessence. The account makes that
divine week of creation, with its six working days and its divine day of rest, the divine prototype
and model for the human division of time; and the Decalogue also, in the conception which it
has in Exodus XX, directly bases the commandment of the Sabbath on the divine week of creation.
Now, if we suppose that the author took these days as earthly days of twenty-four hours, we
are first of all obliged to reject as a child-like error the idea on which from religious {297}
reasons--not from reasons of a mystical idea of God, but from direct practical religious reasons--he
puts great importance; an idea with which he establishes an institution of human life which
has been preserved through many thousands of years and is still preserved as the exceedingly
blissful basis of all social life. For that the creation of the world, from the beginning of
things up to the appearance of man, demanded more than six times twenty-four hours, is beyond
any doubt. Moreover, we should be obliged to reject the arguments of such a central religious
custom as Sabbath-rest in a record in which we have to assign an absolute and lasting religious
value to all other religious elements of it, as to the ideas of the unity, omnipotence, and
wisdom of God, of his creation through the creative word, of the perfection of his works, of
man bearing the image of God. We should even see that idea of God which presents itself to
us out of all other characteristics of that record in such spotless purity and sublime magnitude,
sink down to a decided insignificance through the identification of the divine days of creation
with our earthly days of twenty-four hours. All this certainly brings near to us the question:
do we make a correct exegesis, do we correctly read that record, when we think that the author,
because he speaks of days, must necessarily have understood earthly days, such as we know now?

We readily perceive how interpreters have arrived at this view. The divine sections of creation
in the Mosaic account show themselves too decidedly as days to make possible any other interpretation
than to take them as days. Now from experience we do not know of any other days than of earthly
days of twenty-four hours; {298} and therefore the conclusion naturally follows, that the author
also took the divine days of creation as such earthly days of twenty-four hours. A simple reference
of the same to periods, so that we should again think of fixed periods of the earth or of the
world, would especially pervert the literal sense--would entirely remove from the account the
idea of "day" which is so essential to the author of the record, and thereby render obscure
the archetype of the divine week of creation for the human divisions of time; and the looked-for
harmony between the Biblical days and the geological periods of the earth would by no means
be established by such an identification of the days of creation with the periods of the world:
for the geological or even the cosmic and astronomical periods are nowhere in congruity with
the Biblical days of creation.

But the question, however, is: are there not evidences in the Biblical account itself which
show that the author did not take these days as creative earthly days of twenty-four hours?
We have to answer this question decidedly in the affirmative.

In the first place, it is an established fact that these days of the week of creation were
also, according to the meaning of the author, days of God. Now that such days of God, even
with the most childish and simple worldly knowledge of that early period of mankind, so soon
as such a pure idea of God, as appears from the whole account, is at the bottom of the conception,
can no longer be identical with the days of the creature, is to be inferred beforehand with
the greatest probability from the purity of that idea of God, and is even expressly {299} confirmed
by special evidences in the record itself. We have to mention no less than four of them.

The days of creation present themselves as days of God, which as such differ from the creative
days of earth by the fact that with them the day and the work of the day are absolutely identical.
In the creative days, the day and the work of the day are always different from one another;
the days come and go as temporal frames which include everything that happens during these
days, whether we know it or not. Now we may turn our attention to and mention ever so many
works of an earthly day: there always happen innumerable other things which also belong within
the frame of that day and which are only not observed by us. It is quite another thing with
those Biblical days of creation: here the day begins with the beginning of the day's work;
it exists and passes on single and alone in the course of the work of the day, and it comes
to an end when the day's work is completed, and the work of the following day begins: it comes
to an end with "evening and morning." We admit that if we were obliged for other reasons to
suppose that the author of the account took the days of creation as common earthly days of
twenty-four hours, we must and should find it possible that the author had been able to {300}
suppose the existence and the course of such earthly days even before the creation of sun,
moon, and stars; for he certainly could not yet have the scientific perception that the sun
with its light and the rotation of the earth were the only cause of an earthly day. But it
is easier and more natural for us to bring that passage, Genesis I, 14, into accord with the
conception that the days of creation are divine days which, as such, are different from creative
days, and on one of which God also created that which originates creative days.

Another evidence in the account is of still greater importance for our conception of days.
These days of creation in the Biblical record have no night. The account closes the work of
each day with the words: "And the evening and the morning were the first day," "the second
day," etc. Now, if we have to suppose that the author took these days as common earthly days,
it would be quite impossible to understand why, after having mentioned at the close of the
day's work that it now became evening, he omits the long night of twelve hours, and, although
not having said anything of the night, makes the morning which follows the latter, the end
of the preceding day; and why he does not say, "and it became evening" and "it became night,
the first day," etc. We then could not avoid the question: what, according to the conception
of the author, did God do in these six nights of his week of creation? But if we suppose that
the author took the days as days of God, and therefore, in his conception of the days of creation,
elevated the same above the common earthly days of the creature, and so represented them to
himself as he alone, through his idea of God, thought he might {301} venture to do, then that
mode of expression, so exceedingly strange under all other suppositions, appears very simple
and natural to us. For the author did not mention a night, because these days simply had no
night; and they had none, because as days of God they could have none--because with God there
is no night; because the rest of God, as the seventh day shows, is only a day of rest and not
a night of rest. And the author saw the morning immediately following the evening of his divine
day of creation, and recognized in this morning together with the evening immediately preceding
it, the close of the day, because the accomplishment of the day's work (evening) already contained
in itself the preparation of the following day's work, or at least pointed to the coming of
the latter.

Finally, the fact that, according to the Biblical account, the seventh day still has no end,
is just as decisive for us. The end of each of the six days is mentioned by the solemn repetition
of the words: "And the evening and the morning were the first day," etc.; but it is not mentioned
in regard to the seventh day. Now if, according to the meaning of the author, the seventh day
had also had its end like any of the six preceding days, he would at the seventh and last day
have had double reason for mentioning its end; and the omission of that concluding word would
indeed be inconceivable. When Dillman says: "The formula 'and (it became) the evening' is wanting,
because the account is here at an end, and is no longer to be carried over to another day,
and because for that reason its designation as seventh day is presupposed in v. 2," we have
to reply that, under the supposition of the days of creation having {302} been common earthly
days, a carrying over of the account to further days was certainly to be expected, even if
from nothing else than the formula: "And the evening and the morning were the first day," etc.
For then the human weeks could have followed the week of God, in which man, following the divine
example, would have had to work six days and to rest one. The same commentator says (p. 24):
"The author could not even have dared make a statement about the life-duration of the first
men, if to him the day in which he was created had been an indefinitely long period of time."
But, according to the conception of the Biblical author supposed by us, only the "day of God,"
in which he was created, would have been an indefinitely long period of time (although we are
not willing to identify the days of God with certain earthly periods of time); the earthly
days and the earthly years, on the other hand, would have their existence after the fourth
day of creation, and thus, according to that view, we could estimate and name the earthly years
and days of all that which happened before the fourth day of creation, under the condition
that we have, or believe we have, the means of estimating them. When Dillmann continues: "On
the contrary, the author took these days as nothing else than days," we wholly agree with him;
but add to it: "not days of the creature, but days of God."

By this long duration of the seventh day, we are obliged to draw still another conclusion;
namely, that according to the conception of the author the six preceding days also must have
far exceeded the duration of earthly days. This leads us to another Biblical analogy, whose
direct power of demonstration for a long {303} duration of the Biblical days of creation is,
it is true, justly contested, but which, as soon as we have to assume for other reasons that
according to the author the days of creation far exceed the earthly days as to duration, becomes
a strong support of this view.

With that exegesis of the seventh day as one still remaining up to the present, we are in clear
accord with the more developed theology of the New Testament, and with the interpretation which
it itself gives of that divine day of rest. Jesus himself, in St. John, V. 17, puts aside a
reproach of the Pharisees in reference to a healing on the Sabbath, with the words: "My father
worketh hitherto, and I work." This answer only has a meaning in the sense: my father worketh
hitherto, although, since the accomplishment of the days of creation, he enjoys the Sabbath-rest;
and thus I also work on the Sabbath as on a work-day. And the Letter to the Hebrews, in its
fourth chapter, looks through the medium of the ninety-fifth Psalm back to this Sabbath of
creation which, as a day of rest of God, exists to-day, and the entering into which is given
and promised to the people of God.

By this whole conception of the Biblical week of creation, which appears to us exegetically
much more {304} natural and unconstrained than any other, we alone reach that conception which
the author of that record intends to reach; namely, a conception really worthy of God, of his
temporal relation to the world, and of the relation of human days to the divine days of creation;
we get a foundation for the commandment to keep the Sabbath, the idea of which can be completed
without disturbing the idea of God. The relation of God to the whole temporal course of this
present world, from its beginning to its end, for the religious mode of contemplation of man
who, as the image of God, looks to the creative activity of God for a prototype and an example
for his own activity, can be comprised in one single, great, divine week, whose first six days
last to the completion of the creation of man, and whose seventh day still lasts and will last
to the completion of the course of the world--till the latter itself, and mankind with it,
can enter into the divine rest.

From this religious interpretation, which we have to ascribe to that Biblical idea of the divine
week of creation, it by no means follows that religion has to demand of natural science that
it shall reach in its cosmogonic investigations the same succession in the appearance of things
as we find in the Biblical account. This would be nothing else but an actual carrying of a
pretended religious interest over beyond the limits of a realm in which the deciding vote belongs
to natural science. However incomplete the cosmogonic knowledge of the latter may be, it nevertheless
is at present established clearly enough to reject forever such a demand. Astronomy convinces
us that it is entirely inconceivable that all which belongs to the work of the fourth Biblical
day of creation, even {305} the whole formation of stars and of our system of planets, succeeded
the work of the third day, the formation of earthly continents and plants. And geology in its
strata, which exhibit petrifactions, shows us that the relative Biblical days' works in reality
did not succeed one another alternately in such a way that the one began where the other ceased,
but that from the beginning of organic life the works of the third and the fifth days from
the carboniferous period, also the works of the third, fifth, and sixth days, developed themselves
perfectly by the side of each other. It would be an excess of refinement to identify any Biblical
day of creation with any period or any complex of periods in the development of the earth or
of the world.

On the other hand, for a Christianity founded upon the Holy Scripture, it is still not entirely
without interest to compare the results of natural science and the extent and succession of
the Biblical days' works with one another. For a declaration which undertakes to trace something
which has so deep a hold on human life as the Sabbath-rest, back to the prototype of directly
divine action, is certainly worthy of attention. Now if we wish to make such a comparison,
we can only do it in exact analogy with the way and manner in which we compare the predictions
of the prophetical word with their fulfilment. For in so far as the declarations of that Biblical
record about the circumstances of creation have religious value of which we are to take notice,
they as declarations concerning events of which man certainly cannot have historical knowledge
of his own, come entirely under the point of view of the prophetical word; with the exception
that they do not contain a forward-looking but a {306} backward-looking prophecy. This is one
of the most correct and fruitful thoughts which Johann Heinrich Kurz, in his "Bibel und Astronomie"
("Bible and Astronomy"), Berlin, Wohlgemuth, 1st edition, 1842, has expressed, but has fantastically
misused, in that work, in general so prolific of indefensible positions; a fate which, as is
well known, the forward-looking prophecy has had also often enough to undergo.

In the same manner as we have to explain the forward-looking prophecy from two factors--on
the one hand, from the circumstances of time, the knowledge, the dispositions, and the characters
of prophets; on the other, from the receptivity of their mind for the mind of God and the last
purposes of his actions--we also have explained that record of creation from two factors: on
the one hand, from the view and the knowledge of its time, and on the other from the receptivity
of its author for a pure and living idea of God and of the religious relations of human life.
And we shall also have to do likewise when interpreting it. For the interpretation of the forward-looking
prophecy, we have behind us the experience of thousands of years, from which the following
principles, of treatment and interpretation have resulted. As long as such a prophetic word
is not yet fulfilled, so long, indeed, its meaning is and remains the object of Christian faith
and Christian hope; but it is difficult and almost impossible to distinguish in it, what is
lasting substance, and what is transient form. Perhaps many a thing is looked upon as substance,
which in the fulfilment appears to be only an image and form; and perhaps many a thing as form,
which in the fulfilment shows itself as a more concrete reality than we had supposed. {307}
And it would even be psychologically a violent assumption, if we should presuppose in the mind
of the prophet a still greater knowledge of the future course of things, than that which he
expresses; or if we should separate him in his worldly knowledge, and even in the form of his
prophetic utterances, from the views and limits of his time. But by far the most fruitless
effort of all would be to construct beforehand out of his words the particulars of the historical
course of the future. Attempts of this kind have been defeated whenever they have been made.
But if the fulfilment of such a prophetic word has once taken place, it is a joy and a strengthening
of faith to all following generations, and even after the final fulfilment of all prophecy,
it will still be a joy to the children of God in their perfection, to compare prophecy and
fulfilment and to allow the prophecy to be illumined by the light of fulfilment, the fulfilment
by that of prophecy.

All this finds its full application to the Biblical narrative of creation. That which in the
forward-looking prophecy is the historical fulfilment, is in the backward-looking the scientific
investigation. So long as the latter was not directed at all to the prehistoric history of
the earth, it was an audacious undertaking to separate in the Biblical six days' work substance
and form from one another; it was and is still an unpsychological violence to suppose in the
human author of the narrative all possible knowledge of psychical and scientific secrets, and
to lift him above the child-like views of his time concerning the things of this world. But
it was by far the most fruitless undertaking to construct in detail from his words a picture
of the real {308} circumstances of the creation and development of the world. Attempts of this
kind have been often made; but they have produced nothing but dreams. And certainly the attempt
to control and correct natural investigation by means of such dreams would be like trying to
correct well-established facts of history by the prophecies of a still earlier period, or even
to prove them false. But from the time when natural science, as it is at present, began to
pay attention to the prehistoric history of the earth and even of the universe, such a comparison
has been possible.

It tells us, it is true, that the Biblical days' works did not follow each other in the course
of earthly and cosmic developments in such a way, that the one began where the other ceased,
but that they passed on in the long lines of their course, beside one another, and above one
another. But looking upon their meridian altitudes, they nevertheless, where we are able to
undertake certain geological comparisons, follow one another exactly in the same order in which
the days follow one another in that Biblical record. The meridian altitude of the third day
(for here the certainty of geological knowledge first begins for us) has to be looked for where
the continents are formed and the vegetable life preponderates on earth: and that is the carboniferous
period. The meridian altitude of the fourth day must have been reached where for the first
time the covering of vapor and clouds of the earthly atmosphere permanently parted, and sun,
moon, and stars became visible: and geology finds this time in the period which lies between
the carboniferous period and the trias--in the Permian period, as it is called in England,
in the dyas of the {309} fossiliferous and of cupriferous slate and Zechstein, as we call it
in Germany. The meridian altitude of the fifth day has to be looked for where ocean-life, with
its sauria and innumerable animals, gave its impress to organic life on earth, and the air
was filled with inhabitants: geology calls such a time the secondary period of trias, Iura,
and chalk. That ocean-life preponderated in this period, is beyond any doubt; while in general
geology gives us more meagre information about the inhabitants of the air than of the animals
of the ocean and land. The flying sauria of Iura are still characteristic enough to leave at
least the possibility that the winged world, which in value still stands below the mammalia,
assisted in giving to that secondary period its proper type. Finally, the meridian altitude
of the sixth day cannot be anywhere else than where the animals of the land became the most
characteristic inhabitants of the globe, and where man appeared: and that is the tertiary period
of geology, in which mammalia appeared in great numbers and variety, and at the end of which
we find the first traces of the appearance of man.

We nevertheless do not assign special weight to the establishment of such a correspondence.
The religious value of the idea of a divine week of creation is rendered perfectly certain
to us, if we only find that it is reconcilable with a pure idea of God. That would not be the
case, if we had to look upon the week of creation as an earthly week; but it is perfectly so,
if the divine week stretches over the whole temporality of the course of the world. Therewith
we can be satisfied. For we have neither theological nor philosophical nor {310} scientific
evidences enough to draw from these Biblical utterances any metaphysical conclusions in reference
to the relations of God to the temporal development of the world. We should not dare to contest
directly such metaphysical relations: for the human week, with its day of rest, is such an
eminently fortunate and blissful invitation, the observance of this command is accompanied
by such a striking prosperity in all life-relations of a people, its non-observance by such
an evident curse, and, moreover, the idea of man bearing the image of God is such a fruitful
idea, satisfying equally spirit and mind, that we have to remember the possibility that the
institution of the human week, with its day of rest, is certainly founded on the real relations
of the life-process of that creature which bears the image of God to the activity of its divine
prototype upon the earth. But nevertheless, we just as little dare to attempt or to challenge
the establishment of such metaphysical relations: for a theosophistic treatment of numbers
seems to us no fruitful field for the promotion of religion--neither for the promotion of religious
knowledge nor for that of religious life.

Still, however, the result of our comparison between Biblical and scientific interpretation
seems to us worth mentioning for a special reason. It is true, we have found a succession of
the meridian altitudes of the Biblical days in the same order in which, according to the Biblical
relation, the days' works followed one another; but we have found in the total course of the
Biblical days that their works in reality passed on in long lines contemporaneously with one
another. Now, since that first part of our result--the succession of meridian {311} altitudes--is
the least we have to expect, if the counting of the days shall at all have an objectively real
ground in the world's process, on the other hand, the second part of our result--the far-reaching
contemporary existence of the different Biblical days--has an exact analogy with those prophecies
whose partial or entire fulfilment permits us a more certain judgment of the character of prophecy
and a more certain comparison between prophecy and fulfilment. Even the prophetic world knows
of a divine day, which in the prophecies occupies an eminent and central position: it is the
day of the Lord as the day of judgment and salvation. This day of the Lord also stands before
the eye of the prophet, certainly not as a common earthly day of twenty-four hours, but as
a day of God rising above earthly days and embracing an infinite number of them, although it
also has its very distinct meaning which comes into the earthly temporality. But in the historic
fulfilment, there happen along with it a thousand things which do not belong to it; for two-thirds
of mankind that day did not dawn at all; and as to its temporal course, it had its dawn in
the beginnings of mankind,--its sunrise took place eighteen hundred years ago, and its meridian
altitude is still impending.

Finally, that even the piety of those who composed the Biblical records, and of all those who
see in them the manifested evidences of their faith, assigns no religious weight to the succession
of the days' works, becomes clear from the before-mentioned fact, that the second account of
creation, which makes man and his ethical primitive history its centre, relates the creation
of the inhabitants of the earth in quite a different order from {312} the first one. We shall
treat of this point again, and more in detail, for another reason, in the following section.

We still have to treat of the question as to what position the Holy Scripture and Biblical
Christianity take regarding a development in general: and here also we have only to say that
they are very favorable to such an idea. The works of the six days themselves are in their
succession nothing else but a development, a permanent differentiation of that which was not
separated before, a continuous unfolding of the more simple into the more complex, an always
progressing preparation of the globe for newer and higher forms of existence, until finally
man appeared. In the Biblical account of creation, the idea which forms the basis of every
evolution theory, (namely, that the new which appears has its conditions and suppositions,
its creative secondary reasons, in the preceding), is pronounced with special clearness. The
friendly relation between the Biblical account and the evolution theory even goes so far that
the Holy Scripture, like that theory, does not permit animals to come forth from plants, although
the latter represent the lower, the former the higher, and that, plants are a {313} necessary
condition for animals, but that even according to the Bible both kingdoms come forth from the
inorganic of the earth. When treating of the creation of plants, it says, "Let the earth bring
forth grass," etc.; and when treating of that of animals, it says, "Let the earth bring forth
the living creature." At last, if science should once succeed in perceiving more clearly than
now the origin of the organic from the inorganic, it would have in those words the means for
a harmony with the Biblical conception.

Now, just as evidently as the Holy Scripture is favorable, in general and as a whole, to the
idea of evolution, so certainly it seems to reject it precisely at that point where the whole
interest of our question lies; namely, in reference to the origin of the single species. For
here, when treating of the creation of plants as well us of animals, it is said in most distinct
words: "after his kind." But the contradiction is only apparent. As to the way and manner in
which God created every species, whether he used secondary causes or not, nothing else is said
than that God created every species, that the creatures exist in distinctly marked species,
and that these species are not chance, but lie in the plan of God--that they are his work.
This fact, that it was God who wished to create each species as species, and in reality created
it, is just as firmly established, if the species came forth from one another and were developed
in gradual transitions, as if they received their existence in some other way. As, in the fifth
day's work, we find simply the words: "And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature:
and it was so;" and "God made the beast of the earth,"--in precisely the same way {314} God
could indeed create single plants and animals after their kind, in such a way that one should
come forth from another, that they should be developed from one another.

§ 2. The Creation of Man.

The most important facts which we have to mention, as bearing upon the position of the Christian
doctrine of the creation of man in reference to the evolution theory, have been treated of
in Chapter I, A. We have especially convinced ourselves of the fact, that the new, even if
it has its secondary causes, and comes into existence in gradual development, is no less a
creation of God, and has no less the full value of the new, than if it were created instantaneously.
Likewise man also stands before us untouched in the full newness and dignity of his being,
in the full qualitative and not simply quantitative superiority of the highest gifts of his
mind, and especially of his personality, his ego, his liberty,--in one word, in his full image
of God,--whether we have to look upon him as created in gradual development or as created suddenly.

There are two circumstances in the Biblical account from which we see that, although it is
naturally silent as to the descent problem, it not only knows and acknowledges the connection
of man with the lower creatures of the earth, but also expressly directs attention to it.

One of these circumstances is connecting man's creation with that of land-animals, in a single
day's work. We do not lay more stress on this union than that of the Holy Scripture, although
it emphasizes so strongly the dignity of man in his likeness to God and in his having entire
{315} supremacy over the whole earth, and although it could have found therein reasons enough
for assigning a proper day to the creation of man, to which the whole preceding creation pointed,
and whom the whole creation on earth should serve, yet in its account of the creation it evidently
desires man to be looked upon in his connection as a creature with the animal world. Moreover,
we should not overlook, in the Biblical account, that the benediction which God gives to the
animals of the water and the air, at the end of the fifth day, is in the sixth day not pronounced
over the land-animals--although they certainly are as much entitled to it as fish and birds--but
over man. Of course, it is presupposed that the land-animals naturally partake of the benediction
of man, so far as it can be due to them; the benediction, namely, of fertility and of increase.
According to these indications and to the Biblical conception, man stands in still another
and closer connection with the animal world than in that of mere supremacy over it.

The second circumstance to which we have to call attention, is the declaration (Genesis II,
7), that God created man out of earth; or rather, as the literal translation says: "And the
Lord God formed man (of) dust of the ground." It is of no importance whether the accusative
"dust of the ground" is, as some say, a mere appositive, or, as others explain it, the accusative
of matter. When the account calls man dust of the ground, or a being formed of dust, the difference
is infinitely insignificant, whether the earthly matter out of which God formed man who is
dust of the earth, was an animal organism or not; whether man was formed {316} directly or
indirectly out of the earth, and whether the forming demanded a longer or a shorter time. For
that it did demand time, and that it was not an instantaneous creation, is implied in the expression
"to form."

We call attention to this passage for still another reason. The second account of creation,
as it begins Genesis II, 4, and goes on to the end of the third chapter, is strikingly different
from the first account, Genesis I-Genesis II, 4. It has its origin in that author whose book
is called that of the Jehovist, or, more lately, the judaico-prophetic book; and who, among
all those that have contributed stones to the building of the Pentateuch, gives the deepest
insight into the nature of sin and grace, and into the divine plan of salvation. Now in this
book, from the religious point of view so extremely worthy of attention, the account of the
creation is given quite differently. Man is the centre of the account; that which does not
directly refer to him is entirely omitted. The order in which the inhabitants of the earth
were created, is not only not divided into the six day's works of the first account, and in
verse 4 is not only directly taken as the work of a single day, in the expression [Hebrew:
BAYWOM] (in the day, in which = when), without especial stress being put upon the expression
"one day," for [Hebrew: BAYWOM] has become a particle; but this order is entirely different
from the other. In the second account, the succession is the following: "first, man; then,
the paradise into which man is placed; next, the trees (the question at what time the rest
of the vegetable world was created is left entirely without answer); then, the determination
to create also an assistant to man; next, the creation of animals; finally, the creation of
the woman out {317} of a rib of man." Now, although it is wholly beyond doubt that the two
accounts had different authors, the question will nevertheless arise, how it was possible that
those who inserted these two accounts in the Holy Scripture, one after the other, could so
harmlessly put side by side and read one after the other these two accounts, so entirely contradictory,
without being obliged to think that the truth of the one would refute the other. They certainly
must have had in some way the conviction that the one account was consistent with the other.
But such an agreement between the two accounts is only possible when we either see in them
only ideal truths, or when one of the two shall represent the actual reality of the circumstances
of creation, and the other rather their ideal character. In case we should have to make such
a distinction, it cannot be doubtful which of the two accounts has more of the real, and which
more of the ideal character. In the first account nothing is related which does not give direct
points of connection in the real process, as we can imagine it. In the second account, we find
many points which hardly permit a direct literal conception, even on the part of the first
readers of the account and of the editors of the canon of the Old Testament: for instance,
besides the different order in which the first account is given, the creation of the woman
out of the rib of man: this account, when ideally taken, is so inexpressibly comprehensive,
pregnant, and deep--when taken really, so perfectly improbable. It will be likewise difficult
to believe that even the old readers of the account--at least those of them who looked deeper
and were more enlightened--took with extreme {318} literalness the expression, that God breathed
into the nostrils of man who is dust of the ground, the breath of life. The third chapter has
still other features from which we have at least to assume that the author did not at all intend
to give importance to an extremely literal conception of it. Now, if the second account is
the more ideal one, the meaning of it is: that man, his being, his aim, his primitive history,
is made the centre of the entire description, and around him all the rest is grouped; while
in the first account he appears to be more the end of the whole creation--as he presents himself
to natural investigation in the real process of creation, as the last member in the chain,
not as the centre in a circle or a star. Now if that is the case, if the second account of
creation, having man as its centre, is the more ideal, then we certainly must not overlook
the fact that in the ideal account man is called dust of the ground. Then the nature of dust
also belongs, from the ideal point of view, so necessarily to the nature of man that the question,
whether the connection of this man who is dust of the ground, with this ground, is brought
about through the form of a preceding animal organism, or not, is no longer of importance.
Therefore, if we oppose the animal ancestry of man for the general reasons that we do not wish
to descend from something lower, that lower nevertheless is present as dust of the ground.
And if we oppose such a pedigree on account of the ugliness and wickedness which exist in the
animal world, we have to point to the fact that, on the one hand, mankind also has stains which
are uglier than those which disfigure the wildest beast of prey, and that, on the other hand,
the animal world shows features which {319} are so noble that no man need be ashamed of them.
We have but to add:--if only the coming forth from the creative hand of God, the creation in
his own image, the communion with Him and being a child of His, are preserved. And that all
this can be preserved, even when adopting descent and evolution, we have seen from repeated
considerations.

But we have to draw still another conclusion from the difference between the two accounts of
creation. If the succession, in which the inhabitants of the earth appear in the first account,
is so entirely different from that in the second, as it evidently is, we have necessarily either
to give up the historical reality of the one or of the other account, or of both, or to suppose
that the creation of the inhabitants of the earth took place in a way and manner which makes
it possible to perceive a real connection of the succession in the first account, as well as
in that of the second, with the real processes of creation. Now we do not at all intend to
argue with those who choose the first part of the dilemma; we ourselves join with them, and
believe that salvation does {320} not depend upon the objective reality of that succession,
nor the possession of salvation on the faith of such reality. But we leave to the consideration
of those who, in their religious convictions, think themselves bound to the objective reality
of both accounts, the following thoughts: If not only ideal depth, but also a connection with
the empirical and historical reality of the process of creation, is to be assigned to the succession
of the first account as well as to that of the second, it is only possible by assuming a descent--namely,
that man, e.g., may be called in one sense the first of creatures, inasmuch as with the first
organism that was already given which was afterwards developed into man, and inasmuch as all
which was otherwise created and developed as aspecial species, was only present on account
of that aim; and that man in another, in the merely empirico-historical sense, is still also
the last of creatures. Thus, then, the advocates of descent would find themselves in the unaccustomed
position, equally surprising to friend and foe, of being in a much more friendly relation to
the Biblical belief in revealed religion than their opponents. We should see the apparent discords
not only between Scripture and nature, but also between account and account, dissolved into
harmony, and above the double relation of the two accounts we should see the morphological
ideas of Oken and Göthe, the ideas of types of Cuvier, Agassiz, and Owen, the laws of development
of K. E. von Baer, and finally the ideas of descent of Lamarck and Darwin, reach a friendly
hand to one another. And even the old joys of a teleological view of nature, adorned indeed
with queue and wig, but at present rejected with too much disdain, even if they {321} are called
ichthyo-teleological and insecto-teleological, would attain in this reconciliation their modest,
subordinate place. Moreover, we should then have the satisfaction of seeing again that a religiousness
which in its own realm gives absolutely free play to natural investigation, and does not find
it beneath its dignity to learn from natural science, can on that account retain its own autonomy
in its own realm much more uncontestedly; and that, as it seems to us in the present case,
it can go much farther in the use which it makes of its autonomy and in the extension of the
revealed character of its religious records to physical processes and circumstances, than is
either necessary or safe, and that it nevertheless is rewarded for keeping peace with natural
science by more rich, more living, and more correct glimpses into the harmony between the word
of God and the work of God, than would be the case with a religiousness which, without regard
to natural science, weaves its cosmogonies from the Holy Scripture alone.

After the Holy Scripture has narrated the creation of man in two accounts, the second of them
gives us a continuation in the well-known account of Paradise and of the fall of man, with
its consequences; and the further development, of the Biblical doctrine, as well as of Christian
theology, has also taken the substance and quintessence of these narratives into its representation
of the Christian truths of salvation.

We shall not throw any obstacles in the way of bringing about an understanding between the
Darwinian views {322} and the Biblical primitive history, by acknowledging the justice of the
view that Christian piety might in some way contain in itself the demand that also the form
in which the facts of truth in Genesis III are given to us, has historical reality. He who
makes this demand has only his own short-sightedness and imprudence to blame, if he also loses
the substance with the form, the figurative nature of which can be shown to him only too certainly.
We acknowledge it as a real providence of God, which intends faithfully to guard believing
man against a senseless and slavish adherence to the letter, and against grounding his means
of salvation upon insecure foundations, that at the grand and venerable portal of Holy Scripture
two accounts stand peacefully beside one another, which, if we penetrate through the form into
their substance, complete one another in magnificent and profound harmony, but which, if we
look upon the form as their substance, so diametrically contradict each other that we cannot
do anything else but reject the one or the other, or, still more logically, both. We think
that this hint is strong enough to be understood, and bears, like all bowing before truth and
its power of conviction, rich fruit not only for our knowledge, but also for the purity, certainty,
and richness of our religiousness. We shall not lose by this acknowledgment the character of
revelation and the impression of the truth of these Biblical records, but shall be able through
them, and through them alone, to gain and perceive it. It is true, the first account, and still
more the second--the account of the creation and of the primitive history of man--has in its
external form an exceedingly close relationship to the poetical myths of the ancient nations
of the Orient; but {323} its difference does not consist essentially in the form--although
this too, being the form of a true and correct substance, shows differences enough from these
heathen myths--but consists in the substance itself. These heathen myths certainly contain
many beautiful, deep, and true factors, but always, besides, fundamental ideas which we have
to reject as half-true or wholly erroneous: sometimes a dualistic conception of God and the
world, sometimes a materialization of the divine, the spiritual, and the ethical, sometimes
fatalistic and sometimes magic elements in great number. These Biblical representations, on
the other hand, certainly appear to us still in a picturesque form which is analogous to that
formation of myth; for it really seems to be the only form in which the mind of man, in his
first epoch of life, was able to perceive and represent supernatural and ethical truth, as
we are to-day able to represent the highest relations of our mind to the supernatural and the
ethical only in pictures and parables; but the Biblical representations offer us, under this
plastic covering, a substance which, in view of the most extensive criticism, of the deepest
speculation, and of the most enlightened and practically most successful piety, is still established
as the purest, the most correct, and the most fruitful representation of the nature of God,
and of the ethical nature and the ethical history of man.

Moreover, we shall not make it difficult to bring about an understanding between the Darwinian
theories and the Biblical doctrine, by supporting the other view taught by the Holy Scripture--that
death came into the animal world first through the fall of man, and that the fall of man first
brought the character of perishableness {324} into the condition of the earth or even of the
universe. There are essentially three Biblical passages to which those refer who think that
they find such a view in the Holy Scripture; namely, Romans V, 12; Romans VIII, 19-23, and
Genesis III; but they are wrong. That the Apostle Paul, in Romans V, 12, by the world, into
which death came through sin, did not mean the universe or the globe, but mankind, is plain
enough from the connection, and is only demanded by the difference of meaning which in the
Greek, as well as in the German language, the word "world" has according to its connection.
And in Romans VIII, 19-23, where he speaks of the subjection of the creature to vanity, he
does not mention a certain time in which it happened, nor an historical occasion, as the fall
of man, which should have given the impulse to this subjection; but he only says, in general,
that it was God who "hath subjected the creature to vanity," and that he hath "subjected the
same in hope." He who reads this passage without prepossession, can be led to no other idea
than to this: that God has subjected the creature to the law of vanity from the very beginning
of creation--not forever, but from the very beginning--with the intention that he shall also
celebrate his transfiguration and deliverance from the yoke of perishableness, together with
the perfection of mankind, and with the manifestation and transfiguration of the children of
God. And even the curse of the ground (Genesis III, 17) is no cursing of the universe, or of
the globe and its creatures, but only a cursing of the ground; and of this not on its own account,
but only in its relation, as a means of subsistence, to man, and in opposition to the {325}
exemption from labor which his life hitherto had, and to the agreeableness of his means of
support in paradise.

After having thus rejected these two perversions of the Biblical doctrine, there remains to
us as an established substance of the latter, and as an essential part of Christian dogmatics,
so far as it may come into contact with the Darwinian views, at least the following: Man was
originally created by God, good and happy. To his goodness there also belonged the possibility
of having a sinless development, as he ought to have had; and to his happiness there also belonged
a life amid surroundings wholly corresponding to him, and the possibility of obtaining exemption
from death and all evils by way of a self-controlling submission to God, which resists temptation.
We purposely express ourselves thus. For the Biblical primitive history does not say that man
was created with exemption from the law of death, but that the latter must have been granted
to him as a reward for his submission: the tree of life stood by the side of the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil, and only the eating of the fruit of the tree of life, by avoiding
the eating of the forbidden fruit, should have given to man that immortality which he forfeited
by disobedience. Man became disobedient, and, in consequence of it, subject to death; the harmony
between man and his surroundings disappeared; the earth became to him a place of labor and
of death; and now began for man his historical development as a web of guilt, of punishment,
and of education and redeeming mercy.

Now, in the presence of this Biblical view, the question comes up first of all: is a view according
to which man should have been able and obliged to take a sinless {326} development, and, in
case he had taken it, should have been exempt from the fate of death and of the ills preceding
it, and endowed with immortality as to body and soul--is such a view in any way reconcilable
with the Darwinian ideas of development, according to which man came forth from the series
of lower organisms, subject to death?

We could avoid answering this question by a deduction similar to that which we drew in Chap.
I, § 3, when treating of the question of the reconcilableness of the idea of evolution with
theism, but of which we likewise made no use. We could show that in this question no other
difficulties present themselves to the religious consciousness, than such as existed long before
the appearance of the Darwinian theories and were overcome by pious consciousness and religious
reasoning. For a difficulty entirely similar to that which here appears to us, when looking
upon the whole human species and its origin, stood before us heretofore, when looking upon
the human individual and his origin. From the standpoint of Biblical Christianity, we ascribe
to the human individual an immortality of the soul and a coming resurrection of the body; but
we do not to the human embryo at the beginning of its development in the womb. Now we know
that the development of man from that embryo to perfect man is wholly gradual; that we cannot
observe and predicate of any organ, of any quality, of any activity of body, soul, or mind,
exactly the moment when it comes into existence; and that therefore we cannot give the moment
when we could assume that something so decidedly great and new as the immortality of the soul
and the prospect of a {327} resurrection of the body, begins for the human individual. Although
we know all this, nevertheless in all discussions of the question whether we have to hope for
an immortality of the soul and a resurrection of the body, the gradual development has hardly
ever been, so far as we know, a weight--in any case, never the decisive weight--in the balance
against the supposition of an immortality. If we can look upon the idea of an immortality of
the soul and of a resurrection of the body as reconcilable with the fact, that the human individual
was only developed gradually out of something which was still soulless and perishable, we also
have to look upon the other fact as reconcilable with the gradual development of the whole
species; namely, that man, if he should have developed himself without sin, would have reached
an immortality of body and soul. But we shall not enter this path which would lead us around
the whole question. For the objection might be made, that the scientific and philosophic impossibility
of assuming an eternal duration of an individual that originated in time, has, indeed, always
been pointed out, and only the assertion, not the proof, of the contrary has been opposed to
it; but that Darwinism puts this impossibility into new and full light. Therefore, if we wish
to reach a certain basis for our conviction, nothing else remains to us but to enter upon that
question wholly and exclusively from Darwinian premises.

Now these premises, indeed, indicate to us a development of things, but a development of such
a kind that there appears to us something new, and always new in a rising line. The rising
of this line of development consists in the fact that the spiritual comes forth from the {328}
natural in permanent progress and in always higher development: that mind vanquishes matter.
The first new thing which meets us in the development of the globe, is the organic and life;
the second, sensation and consciousness; the third, self-consciousness and free-will. Now let
us once suppose imaginary human spectators of every first appearance of these phenomena. Would
he who thus far had only known inorganic phenomena and processes, have dared, before the appearance
of life, to utter the proposition: matter can also become living and live? And who would have
dared to suggest the further doctrine: matter can also feel and get a consciousness of things?
Finally, who would have dared even to say: matter can also become a self-conscious and free
personality? To every person who would have pronounced such dreams of the future, there would
have been opposed, apparently with full right, the inviolable mechanism of the inorganic world.
But all this nevertheless took place. If something material can be led so far that a personality
lives in it, that, with the assistance of this material basis, is able to perceive the ideas
and the eternal, that can act in accordance with aims and designs and can set itself the highest
aims, and that may even enter upon a loving and child-like relation to the highest primitive
cause of all things, then we are no longer permitted to say that the material, of which the
body of such a personality consists, could not have been subjected to the service of such a
personality so far, that the latter could have vanquished the elements of the destruction of
life in an eternal process of spontaneous renewal.

It is true, with such a concession alone we have not {329} gained anything directly. For in
abstracto everything is finally conceivable which does not contradict the logical laws of reasoning--even
the basilisk and the mountain of diamonds in stories and fairy tales. But such an abstract
conceivableness has not the least value for the knowledge of the real, nor even for the knowledge
of the really possible. For in the world of being and becoming, everything in its last elements,
forces, qualities, and laws, as well as in the last causes of its development, is something
so absolutely given, that only afterward are we able to analyze that which is present, from
our observations, or to follow from the given factors that which can be, or which under other
conditions would have become different, and that we are not able to synthetically construct
the one or the other in advance, independently from the factors of reality. If, therefore,
that concession shall attain a scientific value, and if the conditional sentence: Man would
not have been subject to death if he had not sinned, is to become an admitted and unassailable
part of Christian theology, we have to look in the realm of phenomena, and in the course of
that which took place, for facts which prove that man, if he had not committed sin, would not
have died, and which thus change that merely abstract, possibility into a real one.

Now we have such a fact in the resurrection of the Lord. If it really took place, then it is
the last earthly stage in the course of the Lord's work of Redemption, and then it permits
us to draw conclusions backwards as to what would have become of man, if he had not been in
need of this redemption, if he had had a sinless development instead of one with sin. {330}

We know very well that in mentioning this fact we meet not only the opposition of those who
contest a teleological, theistic, and especially a Christian view of the world, but also the
natural doubts of those who defend with warm interest teleology and the ethical fundamentals
and productive forces of Christianity, but who think it more advisable to pass over the whole
question of the resurrection in cautious silence. The main consideration which hinders them
from believing in the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, is not the want of historical
attestation, but rather the absolute want of any attested analogy in the other events which
have taken place on the earth. What we commonly see and witness in the dead, is without exception
precisely the opposite of that which is related about the further fate of Jesus crucified.
Now we have repeatedly had occasion to point out that the want of analogy cannot at all be
a proof of a fact's not having taken place, supposing it otherwise well established. Especially
if a development of events follows aims, it lies in the nature of this development that in
its course in all the places where we really and actually can speak of a development, of a
process, things appear and must appear which were not present before, and which, even if they
once appeared, nevertheless need not necessarily be repeated, except at certain times which
correspond to the plan of development; namely, when "their time has come." All these are events
which are wanting in analogy, but which cannot be doubted at all on that account. That was
the case with the first appearance of organic life, also with the first appearance of beings
having sensation and consciousness; moreover, it was the case with the first appearance of
each of the thousands {331} of species of organic beings: all these things, at the time when
they first appeared, lacked every analogy in the past, and were perhaps repeated for some time,
in primitive generations, perhaps not; at any rate, they have all ceased to have analogies
within the memory of man. In an eminent degree does the first appearance of man want every
analogy with what we observe elsewhere. We never see men appear on the stage of the earth,
who were not originated by men; yet this event, so contrary to all analogy, did once take place,
and stands without parallel and analogy in the midst of the series of events, so far as our
knowledge can reach.

Thus the resurrection of the Lord must also necessarily want analogy, in case it is an event
which really marks a station of progress in the development of earthly creatures and their
history, and in case also its nature and its importance tend not to bring mankind, or at least
those who believe in him who has been raised, at once under the influence of its physical consequences,
but only so far to prepare the way for these consequences in intellectual and moral life-forces.
And precisely such an event is the resurrection of Jesus, according to the announcement of
the Lord as to himself and his work, and according to the development of this personal testimony
in the minds of his first disciples, and also according to what Jesus actually became for mankind,
and especially for Christianity. According to this testimony of Jesus and his apostles, and
to this actual experience, Jesus is the Redeemer, whose work is to make amends for the destruction
caused by sin, and thus to originate and establish a new creation in mankind which, from inner,
mental, and spiritual beginnings, {332} renews mankind, and becomes the leaven which, in long
periods of labor, leads it to the goal of perfection; a perfection in which the whole creation
shall participate--with which, indeed, mankind is inseparably connected on the whole natural
side of its existence. But then it also lies in the nature of the resurrection of Jesus to
be single in its kind, and without analogy, until that time shall have come in the development
of mankind when the last enemy, death, shall be forever removed and overcome.

We quite fail to conceive how those who acknowledge design in the world, can avoid the acknowledgment
of the resurrection of Jesus--supposing the fact to be historically established: whereof we
shall have to speak hereafter. It is, indeed, quite impossible to speak of a goal of mankind,
if annihilation--annihilation of single personalities as well as of mankind as a whole--is
its certain destiny. Where and what is this end of mankind, if the last generation of the globe
is to perish with the destruction of this globe, or languish and die even before that destruction,
and if nothing will be left of mankind beyond the soulless material for new formations in their
putrifying corpses and desolate homes and works of art? Where and what is this goal, if all
which once set human minds and hearts in motion, and which stimulated the intellectual and
moral work of the human races, simply ceases to exist, no longer finds anywhere even a place
of remembrance, and nowhere has a fruit to exhibit, except perhaps in the mind of a God who
once set the cruel play in motion, and now permits it to cease, in order to procure for himself
a change in the entertainment? A mere immortality of human {333} souls, without resurrection
and without the perfection and transfiguration of the universe, is not afforded us by this
goal, which we certainly need, if we are to think at all of a goal for mankind. For if all
departing souls should be carried into another world whose only relation to the further course
of the earthly history of mankind was in the fact, that the dead are always gathered in it;
into another world whose only relation to the past of the earthly history of mankind should
be in the fact, that it is divided into a heaven and a hell for those who reach it; if in this
world everything should move on, without end, in eternal coming and going; and if nothing could
be said of that other world than that everything there is different from ours--even that we
should there have no possible points of contact with this world: then we should have nothing
else but a gloomy dualism of the world for which neither our intellectual, nor our psychical,
and least of all our physical, organization is in any way prepared, we should have in it no
satisfaction of our noblest instincts, no goal to which we would be led by any of the guides
who show us the paths which we have to follow on earth. Only a resurrection and transfiguration
of the earth and the universe, as well as of a glorified mankind, show us such a goal. For
this aim, for such a real continuation of life of the single personality, and of all mankind,
after the long work of moral and intellectual development, all noble and worthy instincts of
mankind are prepared--from the instinct of self-preservation up to the instinct of self-sacrifice
for ideal purposes and the instinct of moral perfection and community with God. We find that
in all the rest of creation, instincts and inherent powers {334} are present to be satisfied.
The naturalistic tendencies which at present control so many minds, are very much inclined
to found their whole view of the world upon this correlation of instinct, function, and satisfaction.
Should, then, the highest instincts of the highest creature on earth alone make an exception?
Have they originated from illusions, and do they lead to illusions? We cannot refrain from
quoting a word which Alb. Réville, of Rotterdam, has written in the first part of the October
issue of the "Revue des Deux Mondes," 1874, on the occasion of a criticism of E. v. Hartmann's
"Philosophy of the Unconscious"; though it was written only in defence of theism in general.
We quote from a report of E. P., in the Augsburger Allgem. Zeitung, Oct. 27, 1874, which is
all at present at our command: "When the young bird, fluttering its wings on the edge of its
mother's nest, launches forth for the first time, it finds the air which carries it, while
a passage is opened for it. Instinct deceived the bird just as little as it deceives the multitude
of large and small beings which only live in following its incitations. And should man alone,
whom spiritual perfection attracts--man whose characteristic instinct it is to raise himself
mentally toward the real-ideal, the superiority of which he cannot sufficiently describe, should
man, who obeys his nature, dash his head against the wall built of unhewn stones of unconscious,
blind, and deaf force? Nature, indeed, has too much spirit--according to Hartmann himself--to
indulge in such an absurdity; and the philosophy of the 'unconscious Unconscious' will never
permit it." It is true, there is actually present in mankind, and in it alone, such a discord
between {335} instinct and satisfaction: man has in himself instincts which are opposed to
sin and death, and nevertheless sin and death exist. But the redemption through Christ, and
especially the knowledge of his resurrection, announces to us that this discord is removed.

Therefore, he who in general acknowledges that mankind in its development has had given to
it goals which correspond to its gifts and instincts, has every reason to look about and see
whether, in the course of human history, certain things have happened which point at such aims--indications
which prophetically assure mankind, that it advances toward a spiritual and moral perfection,
and toward an undiminished participation of all members of mankind in this perfection. Such
an assurance is offered us in the resurrection of Jesus; and therefore, all who have not abandoned
a teleological view of the world, have reason for examining it with reference to the degree
of its historical truth. This degree is the highest which we can in general claim of any historical
event.

In order to show this with such brevity as is necessary in the present book, and at the same
time to guard ourselves against every danger of prejudice in the investigation, we shall for
this occasion assume hypothetically that all, even the most extreme, assertions of Biblical
criticism as to the authenticity and inauthenticity of the books of the New Testament, and
as to the difference of their component parts and the time of their composition, are correct
and proven; and see what then remains established. In the first place, it is an acknowledged
fact, that Peter first, then the eleven apostles at different times, and between these more
than five hundred "brethren" (i.e., nearly or fully all who had preserved their {336} attachment
to the Lord till his death), saw the appearances of the risen one, a few days after his death;
and, indeed, under the most different circumstances, and under mental conditions in which they
did not at all expect any such second appearance. We have, in regard to this, the most authentic
written evidence of the apostle Paul, in the fifteenth chapter of his first letter to the Corinthians:
a letter whose authenticity no criticism has dared to doubt. This letter was written in the
spring of 58: and Paul himself had already been changed from a persecutor into a believer in
Christ in the year 36--i.e., one year after the death of Jesus, which took place in 35; he
went to Jerusalem in 39, and here everything was related to him by Peter, as we know from his
letter (likewise not contested) to the Galatians. Thus the authentic information of the man,
who in 58 collected the historical proofs of the reality of the resurrection of Jesus for his
Corinthian Christians, goes back to four years after the death of Jesus, and to the personal
witnesses of the appearances; as in that letter he also refers to the fact that "many of these
five hundred brethren are still living." Moreover, it is an established fact, that the first
written evidences of the evangelical history from which our canonical gospels subsequently
originated, likewise contained accounts of the appearance of the risen one. Finally, it is
an established fact that, from the very beginning, the whole meaning of evangelical preaching
turned on the two facts of the death and of the resurrection of Jesus, as on the two cardinal
points of all preaching of salvation; also that all the faith of those who embraced the Gospel
was founded upon these two facts, as upon the historical fundamentals of the {337} salvation
which comes from Jesus; and that thus Christianity, with all its effects, which have unhinged
the old world and diffused streams of blessing over mankind, has its historical basis in faith
in the death of Jesus and his resurrection. This is our historical chain of proof. And that
evidence which gives certainty to its most important link, on which everything depends--the
appearance of the risen one--is the entire failure of all the attempts at explaining that appearance
from a seeming death, from an intended deception, from a self-delusion, from a vision and an
ecstasy, from a poetic myth; in short, from any other cause than, that the Lord really appeared
to his disciples as the man who was dead, but who is risen and lives. We cannot follow Keim
in all his methods of reconstructing the life of Jesus, and we believe that he is much too
timid regarding the consequences which follow from an objective, real appearance of Jesus after
his death; but we acknowledge it as a high merit of his christological works, that although
he is willing to use criticism to the utmost, he has so thoroughly and strikingly shown the
impossibility of explaining the appearance of Jesus after his death differently from the real
manifestations of his still living person. It is well that Strauss, in his "The Old Faith and
the New," declares the history of the resurrection of Jesus a historical humbug; for it may
open the eyes of many, if the tendency, of which Strauss is leader, is no longer able to explain
Christianity--the noblest, purest, and most successful religion which has come into existence
in the whole history of mankind--otherwise than by calling it a humbug. With him who is pleased
with this manner of explaining the most perfect blossom and fruit of {338} the tree of mankind,
we certainly can find no common ground of mutual understanding.

We have been led to all these discussions, by looking for something actual which should be
able to throw its light back upon the earliest primitive history of mankind--a history which
can no longer be historically investigated. We have found this reality in the resurrection
of Jesus; and the light which it throws upon the primitive history of man, we have perceived
in the conclusion to which it leads us: that man, if he had taken a sinless development, would
also have been exempt from death.

The resurrection of Jesus throws its light upon still another side of the Biblical doctrine
of the primitive condition of man: namely, upon that which is the religious quintessence of
the Biblical doctrine of Paradise. As now the resurrection of the Lord is the beginning and
the prophecy of a new creation on the basis of the old, and as we now hope, with St. Paul,
that this beginning shall manifest its comprehensive cosmic effects, when the Lord shall manifest
them in the resurrection of the "children of God:" so, in case of a sinless development of
man, the beginning of this new and glorified stage of creation would certainly have been perceptible
at the beginning of the history of mankind and in the relation of man to his earthly surroundings.
But we are of course not permitted to make or to pursue such a suggestion at present, since
a sinful development of mankind, with its consequences, actually took place.

We have no reason to enter into the discussion of another often and much debated question,
which is connected with the primitive history of man; namely, {339} whether mankind is descended
from one or more pairs of men. We pass it by; because it has no connection whatever with the
acceptance or rejection of the Darwinian ideas, and since it is not yet archæologically and
scientifically solvable. There are Darwinians who think monogenetically, and others who think
polygenetically; and there is still a third class--and they speak most correctly--who acknowledge
that they know nothing about it. Besides, we can also pass by this question, for the reason
that in spite of the important place which it occupies in the theological system of St. Paul,
we have no right to assign to it, in the form in which we put it, the decisive dogmatic importance
which it still occupies in many conceptions of Christian theology. For we cannot question the
right of the natural sciences to enter into the discussion of this question, and to look for
a solution of it. As soon as we make this concession, it necessarily and naturally follows
from it, that we must no longer make the substance and truth of our religious possession, even
in a subordinate manner, dependent on the results of exact investigations: for our religious
possessions have too deep a basis of truth, to permit us to ground them on the results of investigations
in a realm so dark for science and so far removed from religious interest. As to this question,
we may hope for a future solution in the monogenetic sense: we may rejoice over the fact that,
according to the present state of knowledge, the needle of the scale rather inclines in favor
of a oneness of origin of mankind; but we must also be prepared to accept the possibility of
a contrary result, without being afraid that in such a case we should have to abandon at once
that religious factor {340} for whose sake the advocates of a monogenetic descent might defend
their view. This religious (and, we may add, quite as strong ethic) factor consists in the
idea of the intimate unity and brotherhood of mankind. We must absolutely adhere to this idea;
for it is in opposition to the particularism which, quite without exception, governed the entire
old world, even its most highly developed nations, and which was only penetrated by some beams
of hope and prediction in the prophecy of Israel--one of the most beautiful and blissful gifts
of Christianity to mankind. This idea still contains, as ethical motive, one of the strongest,
most indispensable, and most promising forces in the world. If this idea shall be a real and
lastingly effective one, it certainly must also have its real basis in the history of the origin
of mankind. But, we must ask, is the only conceivable reality of this basis a monogenetic pedigree,
and do we lose this reality if science should once find that mankind came into existence not
only in one single pair, but in several pairs, even in different places, and at different times?
Even in such a case, the idea of the unity of mankind would only lose its real basis, if at
the same time we were permitted to think also anti-teleologically--if we were permitted to
suppose that that which came into existence, repeatedly, and in different places, had each
time entirely different causes without a common aim and a common plan. If we think teleologically,
we see the unity of mankind, also in case of a polygenetic origin, in the unity of the metaphysical
and teleological cause which called mankind into existence; and to rational beings, endowed
with mind, as men are, the metaphysical bond is certainly stronger than the physical. {341}
Precisely the Darwinian ideas of the origin of species through descent would show us in such
a case the real bond which unites mankind. For then we should only have to go back from the
different points on the stem-lines of the prehistoric generators of these primitive men, at
which men originated otherwise than by generation, in order to arrive finally at a common root
of all these stem-lines: the members of mankind would even then remain consanguineous among
one another, not only in an ideal, but in a real sense.

Now that the idea of the unity of mankind was holy and important to St. Paul, is to be inferred
in advance from such a universal mind. And when in Acts XVII, 26, he expresses this idea before
the Athenians, so proud of their autochthony, with the words that "of one blood all nations
of men dwell on all the face of the earth"; or when, in Romans V, and 1 Corinthians XV, he
makes use of the idea in order to explain and to glorify the universal power of redemption
of Christ by putting Adam and Christ in opposition to one another, as the first and the second
Adam, so that he sees sin and death coming forth from Adam, grace and justice and life from
Christ and extending over mankind; then we find this idea quite convincing and natural, and
adhere firmly to the quintessence of these truths, even if we acknowledge neither in these
passages, nor in Genesis I and II, the intention of God to give us a supernatural manifestation
of the exterior process of the creation of man. Paul himself gives us a hint not to follow
slavishly a literal interpretation, when he says, in Romans V, "as by one man sin entered into
the world and death by sin," and calls this man Adam, although he knows that according to the
{342} Biblical relation, Eve was the one who was first seduced, and although he expressly points
out and makes use of this priority of the sin of Eve in another connection, and for another reason.

Finally, we may here also take into consideration the contradictions which have come up by
reason of more recent investigations, in reference to the prehistoric conditions of man, and
which, especially in England, have been designated as the contradiction between the elevation
theory and the depravation theory.

In general, this contradiction is looked upon as if a conception of the primitive history of
man, remaining conformable to the Bible, could only be brought into harmony with a depravation
theory, and not with an elevation theory; but certainly without reason.

The Biblical and Christian conception of the primitive history of man does not at all demand
the conception of a gradual sinking down of mankind from a supernatural height--of a gradual
depravation of our species--which many representations seem to assume. For, according to it,
the fall of man had already taken place with the first pair of mankind; they were driven from
Paradise, to long hard labor and development; and Paradise was taken from earth. Even the paradisaical
condition, with its short duration, was deficient in all the various gifts of life which are
a product of human inventive faculty and skill, and which can leave behind vestiges and remains.
But what the Holy Scripture relates or indicates of the after-paradisaical primitive history
of man, wholly corresponds to the idea of a gradual development out of the more simple and
rough, which is demanded by the evolution theory in its {343} application to history. That,
even according to the Biblical conception, goodness and progress in outer culture, sin and
intellectual stagnation, are not identical, we see from the fact, that by the Holy Scripture
the most successful inventions of man are not assigned to the more pious Sethites, but to the
Titan-like, rebellious Kainites. Likewise, the evolution theory does not at all require a constant,
general, and exclusive progress of mankind in all its members. As in the realm of irrational
organisms, so in the history of mankind; it has to assume the most various ramifications with
progress, stand-still, and retrogradation. It is true, it sees in the nations of culture progress
in an upward rising line; but besides, stand-still and retrogradations in great variety. It
also sees in mankind in general a labor of upward rising development; but it also sees many
hindrances of development, and many shavings which the work throws to one side. But exactly
the same thing was also seen in every religious or profane contemplation of history, long before
the evolution theory was born.

Therefore, the different views of the earliest primitive history of man, the theory of depravation
and that of elevation, do not stand so opposed to one another--the former representing the
Biblical and religious, the latter the anti-religious, view of the history--but the question
as to the primitive history is not yet solved in that respect; the depravation theory, as well
as the elevation theory, indicates rather the directions in which investigation has to put
its questions to the archæological sources. Investigation, on the other hand, has free scope
in both directions; and the primitive history of man shows itself to be a realm in which religious
and scientific interest, {344} opponents and advocates of the descent theory, can peacefully
join hands for common labor. Up to the present, the investigations reach results which seem
to fall now more into one, now more into the other, scale of the balance. On the one hand,
the older the products of human skill are, the more simple they are; on the other hand, even
the oldest remains show man in full possession of that which distinguishes him from the animal,
and attests a spiritual life. The reader may think of the before mentioned sketches of the
reindeer and mammoth (page 90). If we finally come down to historic times, and to the present,
in order to try to draw conclusions from the comparisons of the remotest times of which we
have historic knowledge, with the present, as to prehistoric times, we likewise find on the
one side vestiges of the lowest barbarism in the past and present; but on the other side we
find that the oldest written monuments afford a glance into a perfection of intellectual reflection
and into a nobility of moral and religious views which permits us to draw the highest conclusions
as to the intellectual worth of earliest mankind. The very oldest records of the Holy Scripture
give evidence of this intellectual height; and even the royal programmes of Assyrian monarchs,
which the wonderful diligence and ingenuity of recent investigators have deciphered from the
cuneiform inscriptions, not only relatively correspond to the height of culture which we find
in the ruins of Assyrian palaces, but even, when looked upon absolutely and aside from the
morality of conquest which they indulge, are inspired by a nobility of mind, and permeated
by a religiousness, which no potentate of recent times would need to be ashamed of. They have
{345} been made accessible to the public by the work of Eberhard Schrader: "Die Keilinschriften
und das Alte Testament" ("Cuneiform Inscriptions and the Old Testament"), Giessen, 1872.

§ 4. Providence, Hearing of Prayer, and Miracles.

Before we enter into the special christological realm, we have yet to glance at the realm of
the more common relations between God and the creature, as they have found, in faith in a divine
providence, in hearing of prayer, and in divine miracles, their reflection in Christian consciousness.

It is true, we had to discuss the chief basis of an understanding in this matter when treating
of the position of the Darwinian theories in reference to theism in general; but we have a
double reason for entering again into the consideration of the concrete form which this faith
has obtained in Christianity.

One reason is the fact, that faith in a special providence of God, in a hearing of prayer,
and in a connection of the human history of salvation with miracles, forms a very essential
part of the Christian view of the world and of Christian religiousness. All Holy Scripture
is interwoven with assurances of a providence of God, going even into details; with the most
distinct and solemn promises of the hearing of our prayers; and with the most emphatic reference
to the miracles which it relates. The Lord himself not only found all these doctrines, and
left them untouched, but he developed them in the most pregnant way, and brought them into
the most intimate connection with the quintessence and centre of his doctrine. According to
his teaching, {346} "a sparrow shall not fall to the ground without the will of your heavenly
Father; but the very hairs of your head are all numbered." He encourages us to pray, with the
words: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will
give it you;" and he proves himself to be the Redeemer, through signs and wonders, and refers
to the greatest sign which was to be manifested in him--the sign of the resurrection.

The other reason for entering upon the discussion of these questions, lies in the incredible
thoughtlessness with which a great part of modern educated people, even of such men as do not
at all wish to abandon faith in a living God, permit themselves to be governed by the leaders
of religious infidelity, and to be defiled and robbed of everything, which belongs to the nature
of a living God. By many, it is considered as good taste, and as an indispensable sign of deep
scientific learning and high education, and it forms a seldom contested part of correspondence
in newspapers, which have for their public a wide circle of educated people, that in referring
to the inviolableness of the laws of nature they declare faith in a special providence of God
to be a view long ago rejected, and which is only consistent with half-civilized individuals;
that they look down with a compassionate and self-conscious smile upon the egoistic implicit
faith of congregations who still pray for good harvest-weather, and see in the damage done
by a hailstorm a divine affliction; that they criticise it as a sad token of ecclesiastical
darkness, when even church-authorities order such prayers in case of wide-spread calamities;
that they fall into a passion over the {347} narrowness and the dulling influence of pedagogues
who see in the histories which they relate to their pupils or put into their hands for reading,
the government of an ethical order of the world which goes a little farther than the rule that
he who deceives injures his good name, and he who gets intoxicated injures his health; that
they give a man who still believes in the resurrection of Jesus, to understand that he has
not yet learned the first elements of the theory of putrefaction and perishableness. That the
adversaries of faith in a God thus express themselves, and try to conquer as much ground as
possible for their frosty doctrine, is certainly quite natural; but that even advocates of
theism should permit such stuff to be presented to them, and can keep silent in regard to it--nay,
that even preachers offer it to their congregations as ordinary Sabbath edification, and that
their hearers can gratefully accept it--is certainly a suggestive and alarming evidence of
the rapidity with which, in many men who still do not wish consciously and certainly to be
thought godless (i.e., to be separated from God), their connection with the source of light
and life is decreasing, and of how strongly the fear that they may be looked upon as unscientific
and imperfectly educated, overbalances the fear of losing the living God and Father, and therewith
the support of both mind and life.

Now, that this faith in a special providence, in a hearing of prayer, and in divine miracles,
forms an essential part of Christian religiousness, we do not need to show more in detail;
it is an established historical fact, and an object of direct Christian knowledge. On the other
hand, we have still to say a word concerning {348} that which, on the part of those just described,
is so strongly contested; namely, about the scientific worth of such a faith, and also about
its reconcilableness with the Darwinism theories.

In the first place, as to the faith in a special providence of God, and, in connection with
it, as to the possibility of a hearing of human prayer, such a faith is by itself the inevitable
consequence of all theism; nay, it is precisely identical with theism; it is that which makes
theism theism, and distinguishes it from mere deism--i.e., from an idea of God, which merely
makes God the author of the world, and lets the world, after it was once created, go its own
way. Now, the theistic idea of God, which sees the Creator in an uninterrupted connection with
his creation, is in itself the more scientific one: for a God who, although the author of the
world, would not know how to find, nor intend to find, a way of communication with his creation,
would certainly be an idea theologically inconceivable. We should, therefore, still have to
adhere to the idea of a special providence of God, even if in our discursive reasoning and
exact investigation of the processes in the world we should not find a single guide referring
us to the scientific possibility of such a direct and uninterrupted dependence of the world
on its author. We should then have simply to declare a conviction of the providence of God
to be a postulate of our reasoning, which is given with the idea of God itself; and would just
as little call this conviction unscientific on account of the fact, that we are not able to
show the modalities of divine providence, as in reference to the exact sciences we should contest
the character of their {349} scientific value on account of the fact that they are no longer
able to give us an answer exactly where our questions become most important and interesting.

But the ways in which we are able to realize scientifically the idea of a divine providence
are, indeed, not entirely closed for us. We have several of them; one starts from the idea
of God, others from the empiric created world.

It belongs to the idea of God, that we have to think of the sublimity of God over time and
space, of his eternity and omnipresence, in such a way that God, in his being, life, and activity,
does not stand in time nor within any limits or differences of space, but absolutely above
time and above all limits and differences of space; that he is present in his world everywhere
and at any time. He who objects to this, can only do it with weapons to which we have to oppose
the objection which the adversaries of the Christian idea of God so often raise against it--namely,
the objection of a rejectable anthropomorphism. In contesting the possibility of the idea of
an uninterrupted presence of a personal and living God in the entire realm of the universe,
the adversaries seem to permit themselves to be daunted by the difficulty which is offered
to man in controlling the realms of his own activity. The greater such a realm, the more difficult
becomes a comprehensive survey, the more the human influence has to restrict itself to the
greater and more common and to neglect the little and single. The more removed is the past
which helps to constitute the circumstances of the present, the greater is the human ignorance
and oblivion; the more removed is the future, the greater is the human incapability of {350}
influencing it decisively. Such measures ought to disappear, even in their last traces, when
we reflect on God and divine activity. If once the idea is established for us of a living God,
who is always present in the world created by him, and in whose "sight a thousand years are
but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night," the final causal chain of causes
and effects may be ever so long, and stretching over this course of the world from its beginning
to its end; the single phenomena may be woven together of ever so many thousands and thousands
of millions of different causal chains: we nevertheless see above them all the regulating hand
of God from whom they all come, and who not only surveys and controls their texture in all
its threads, but who himself arranged, wove, and made it. Such a view is not only more satisfactory
to the religious need of man, but it also seems to us more scientific, than a view which traces
everything back to a blind and dead cause, or even to no ultimate cause at all, and thinks
it has entirely removed the last veil, if it pronounces the great word "causal law."

Now, while our idea of God thus tells us that God has in his hand all causal chains in the
world, and its million-threaded web in constant omni-surveying presence and in all-controlling
omnipotence, our reflection on the world and its substance and course also leads us from the
a posteriori starting-point of analytical investigation precisely to the same result; it even
leads us to a still more concrete conception of this idea--namely, to the result, that not
only the causal chains, in their totality and in their web, but also all single links of these
chains, {351} have their force and existence only by virtue of a transcendental, or what is
the same, of a metaphysical, cause.

For if we analyze the single phenomena in the world, we certainly observe in the activity of
their qualities and forces such a conformity to law, that, in our reflection on these phenomena,
we can go from one phenomenon to the necessity of another as its cause or its effect, and thus
form those particular causal chains and causal nets in whose arranged representation natural
science consists. But that those qualities and forces exist and act precisely thus, and not
otherwise, and why, we are no longer able to explain. We can only say: the material and the
apparent is no longer their cause, but their effect; therefore, the cause of that which comes
into existence lies beyond the phenomenon--i.e., in the transcendental, in the metaphysical.

This becomes evident in the inorganic world and in those qualities which are common to all
matter. Such common qualities of the latter are, for instance, cohesion and gravitation. That
all matter has the quality of cohesion, we can only say because we observe it; but that it
must be so, and why, we are not able to say. This becomes still more evident in gravitation.
Gravitation is so decidedly an action in space, that it appears to us, together with cohesion,
as precisely the bond which binds the entire material world together. Each single material
atom is subject to its force; but how and why, and especially how and why matter acts upon
the matter in space, physics can no longer tell us, but refers us to a metaphysical cause.

This dependence of each single being, and of all its qualities and forces, on a transcendental
and {352} metaphysical cause of its existence, becomes most clear to us in the world of the
organic, and especially in the transmission and development of organisms. That individuals
originate new individuals of their species; that the fecundated germs, if the necessary conditions
are present, develop themselves out of the first germ and egg-cell in continually progressive
and distinct differentiations, each after its kind, into the full-grown condition, so that
individuals endowed with a soul and intellectual life are also developed out of such beginnings;--these
are facts which are continually repeated before our eyes, and men of science have not yet reached
the end in pursuing the actual in these processes into its finest ramifications. But how it
is that individuals must transmit themselves--that the seeds and eggs must have this force
of germination and development--they have not yet been able to explain, and will never be able
to do so. The word "inheritance," which is to solve the problem, is only a name for the fact
which we observe, and for the regularity of its repetition; but for this fact of inheritance
itself, we seek in vain a physical explanation: we are referred to a metaphysical cause. Thus,
not only the first origin of life on earth is an enigma to us (as we have seen in Part I, Book
II, Chapter I, § 3), but organic life itself, in its whole existence and course, is a process
which, at every step, and in every place of its course, remains to us in its last causes physically
unexplained, and refers us to metaphysical causes.

If we finally see in all these inorganic and organic processes a striving towards ends--and
we must see it, as soon as we in general observe order, the category of higher and lower, and
the appearance of the higher on {353} the basis of the lower--we are, with all our teleological
observations, again referred to the metaphysical, and still more decidedly to the goal-setting
metaphysical; and a metaphysical which sets and reaches goals is nothing else than that in
philosophic language which in the language of religion we call a living Creator and Ruler of
the world and the activity of his providence.

From still another side, the knowledge of the world, even in a scientific way, leads us to
the acknowledgment of a divine providence which controls with absolute freedom every process
in every place and in every moment of the world's course. We see continually, in the midst
of nature, and in its causal course conformable to law, something supernatural, transcendental,
and metaphysical, acting decisively upon the course of nature; and that is the free activity
of man. Every man carries in the freedom of the determinations of his will something transcendental
and metaphysical in himself, which we can call natural only when we mean by nature the summary
of all that which exists, but which we have to call supernatural when we mean by nature the
summary of that which belongs to the world of phenomena in its traceable causes as well as
in its traceable effects. The scale of life-activities, from the lowest arbitrary motions,
from the impulses and instincts of the animal up to the highest moral action of the will of
man, shows us in indistinct transitions all stages which lead from the natural to the supernatural,
until, in the ethical and religious motives of man, we arrive at superphysical (i.e., supernatural)
motives which daily and hourly invade the natural, and in this invasion consciously and unconsciously
use the forces of nature {354} and their activity, conformable to law, and in spite of their
metaphysical and transcendental origin, from the moment of their activity, join the natural
causal connection of the world's course. This observation of an invasion of the physical by
the supernatural, as it continually takes place in the free action of man, leads us in a triple
way to the acknowledgment of an action of divine providence upon the course of the world.

In the first place, this observation shows us, in a very direct way, points where the free
disposition of God acts determinatingly upon the course of things, and where this action becomes
accessible to our observation. These points are the human personalities, in so far and inasmuch
as they permit themselves to be influenced and determined by the will of God in the ethical
and religious motives of their action, and, when these motives become actions, determinately
act upon the course of things.

In the second place, this observation further leads, by way of two conclusions, to the acknowledgment
of a divine providence.

One conclusion is the following: If there exist in the world free and intelligent beings which,
through their free determinations, guided by reflection, decisively act upon the course of
nature, and if these beings, on account of these very qualities of freedom and intelligence,
occupy the highest stage among the creatures which we know, the last metaphysical cause of
their existence must also have qualities which are able to produce such free and intelligent
beings--at least the qualities of freedom and intelligence in the highest degree. And this
highest metaphysical cause which produces free and intelligent personalities in the world,
can at least be no {355} more dependent upon the entire world, whose author it is, than those
personalities are dependent upon that realm in the world in which they have their existence.
We call such a metaphysical cause, to which we have to ascribe freedom and intelligence in
the highest degree, God; and we call its free position in reference to the world, the government
of the world, or providence.

The other conclusion leads us to the acknowledgment of a connection of providence with conformability
to law in the actions of all forces and qualities in the world. It is the same conclusion to
which we had to refer in Chap. I, § 6, but which now, as we draw from theism the conclusion
of the acknowledgment of a special divine providence, falls with increased weight into the
scale. It is the following: On the one hand, we observe in the processes of the world a striving
towards ends; on the other, we know in the world itself only one single creature which acts
according to aims, which sets itself its ends and reaches them with freely chosen means. This
one creature is man. Now man can, as we pointed out in Chap. I, § 6, choose and use the means
with which he wishes to reach his ends, only because he can rely on the conformity to the end
in view and the regularity in the effect of all the qualities and forces of things. If he could
not rely on them, he certainly could set himself ends; but the reaching of them he would have
to leave to the play of chance. Now if we see, on the one side, that the only creature known
to us which sets itself ends is able to reach these ends by virtue of inviolable conformity
to law in the forces and effects of its means, and if we see, on the other, that in the course
of the world ends are also reached, and that at the same time {356} all secondary causes which
lead to these ends act with a necessity conformable to law, we certainly are right in drawing
the conclusion that the highest metaphysical cause of all things--we now say, the living God--has
so prepared the whole universe that his free but regular and systematic goal-setting and end-reaching
action upon the course of all things rests, as a whole as well as in detail, directly upon
the conformity to law of all forces and their effects.

The observation of a free action of the human personality upon the course of things, once more
leads us back to a reflection on the idea of God. For if we have reason to acknowledge a freedom
of the determinations of human will--and the consciousness of ethical responsibility will be
a proof of this freedom which cannot be invalidated by any contrary reflection--the question
comes up: how is this freedom of a creature reconcilable with the idea of God? Far be it from
us to claim to have found a solution of these last and most important problems of the human
mind. For all meditations on them but lead to antinomies in the presence of which we dare not
churn to remove all difficulties of reflection still less to solve the difficulties by pursuing
only one chain of reasoning and ignoring the other. The way of science leads rather to mere
compromises, and these compromises consist in the fact, that on every side of our observations
or arguments we look for and adhere to that which results for us in incontestable fact or indispensable
postulate, and that we adhere to all results or postulates thus found even when we are no longer
able to trace their unity and harmony back to their last sources. Now if, on the one hand,
our idea of {357} God is established as a self-testimony of God to our ethical consciousness
and as a result of our teleological reasoning, and if, on the other, is established the fact
of the world and of its processes going on conformably to law, and likewise the fact of human
freedom and its actions upon the course of things, and finally the fact of the admission of
the human will and action into a higher teleology which is superior to human will, and which,
in the history of mankind, of individuals, and nations, reaches its higher ends, now by affirming,
now by denying, human will; then we have simply to account for all these facts as mere facts,
and the scientific attempt at pursuing them into their inner connection is nothing else but
a more or less successful compromise. We have to be satisfied with these indications, for the
further discussion of them would lead us far beyond the task of the present publication. We
shall only point out the fact, that precisely the knowledge of the image of God in man shows
us the way to the knowledge of how it is conceivable that God can create personalities through
whose freedom of will he relatively limits the absoluteness of his own will.

In all our discussions hitherto, the scientific basis of a faith in the possibility of an answer
to prayer has been evident. All reasons for a divine providence, also speak with the same force
of persuasion for the hearing of our prayers, as soon as the idea of being a child of God has
become an integral part of our idea of God. And this idea--the idea of God as the father, and
of a relationship of love between the divine and the human personalities--is so much a part
of the Christian idea of God, that it belongs to its very essence. Only one {358} consideration
might offer scientific difficulties to our faith in the hearing of prayer: namely, if God hears
the prayers of his children, in the course of time new motives for his action present themselves
to him; now, is it reconcilable with the idea of God, that God makes himself in any such way
dependent on that which first appeared in time, and on the changing moods of the creature?
But this difficulty is precisely the same which we met, when acknowledging human freedom and
its reconcilableness with a divine providence; and we have tried to indicate above the path
which leads to its solution.

It is the principal idea which penetrates all our reasoning about the relation of God and the
world--namely, the idea of a teleology in the world--which is to lead us to a correct conception
of the miracles and their reconcilableness with a mechanism of nature and with the Darwinistic
ideas of development. In the much discussed contest about the problem of miracles, clearer
results would certainly have been attained, if one had questioned more closely what the record
of the Christian religion means by miracles, and what position, according to it, these miracles
have to take in the order of the world and in the divine plan of salvation; and after having
satisfied himself as to this position, had further asked what position they take in reference
to our exact science and our theistic view of the world. Instead of doing this, we have often
enough seen friend and foe of the idea of miracles, as soon as the question was even touched
upon, at once set to work with the insufficient conceptions of old rationalism and supernaturalism,
and thus raising objections and attempting solutions which could satisfy nobody. Especially
every inadequate idea {359} which was put forth by the advocates of faith in miracles, was
gladly accepted by its adversaries; for thereby they were furnished with a caricature of the
idea of miracles, the tearing to pieces of which was an easy and agreeable sport to them.

The very ideas of the natural and the supernatural are a category which is to be treated with
caution. When discussing the question of divine providence, we have seen that, with every free
act of the will of man springing from an ethical motive, something supernatural invades the
natural, so that in every normal human life we always see supernatural and natural by the side
of and in one another.

The distinction between the direct and the indirect action or invasion of God is also to be
used with great caution and restriction. For where we are no longer able to find secondary
causes, who can assert that God no longer uses any? Where the realm of visible causes ceases
and that of the invisible begins, who can exclude secondary causes? And on the other hand,
where God acts directly, who can deny the concurrence of his direct presence and his direct
action, or reduce the value of that which was indirectly produced?

Moreover, the often-returning conceptions of a breaking of the laws of nature, or the compromises
which were made between a breaking and a non-breaking of the laws of nature by assuming a "supernatural
acceleration of the process of nature," were still more misleading. In the whole world, infinitely
many higher and lower forces act according to laws and order. In every process, a part of the
forces which in the single case surround it, become active, and thereby hinder {360} another
part from its activity. But the laws of this other part of forces are not thereby invalidated
or broken. When a man acts with moral freedom, from mere moral motives, the highest of the
conceivable forces over which we have control comes into direct action upon the natural. But
therewith those forces, with their laws, which would have been active if another motive had
determined him, are not yet overcome, but only hindered from their activity in exactly the
same way as one part of forces can be active and another not, where mere mechanical actions
take place. Thus, in miracles, no law of nature is overcome, but only a force which otherwise
would have been active according to the law of its activity, is for the time hindered from
action by another force becoming active. Moreover, through the conscious and unconscious connection
of the idea of irregularity and lack of plan with the idea of miracles, not only the idea of
a God who works miracles, but also that of a personal Creator and Ruler of the world, in general,
has come into discredit. For that reason, Häckel, for instance, when he attacks the Christian
idea of creation, never fails to speak of the "capricious arbitrariness" of the Creator; and
Oskar Schmidt also speaks of the "caprice" of the God of Christians.

With these criticisms, which we have made in reference to the treatment of the question of
miracles, we certainly have undertaken only to characterize the superficial skirmishing which
took place between the two opposing views of the world, but not the labors of more recent theological
science. But that skirmish has made, like all superficiality, the most noise in the world;
and since the adversaries of the faith in {361} miracles endeavored almost exclusively to reflect
in this manner, and almost ignored the deeper deductions of theological science, they succeeded
in making the idea of miracles almost the most dreaded object of antipathy to modern education,
and many of those who feel that the conceptions of traditional dogmatics are in need of revision,
and religion and science of a reconciliation, endeavor to find that revision and reconciliation
especially in the fact, that religion gives up miracles. On the other hand, theology as science,
in its main advocates, long ago gave up these insufficient and misleading categories and conceptions,
and established a conception of miracles which can easily be received into the science of the
processes of nature, as well as into our reasoning about God and the divine. The first who
adopted this mode of treatment, is one of the pioneers of more recent positive theology, and
of a theology still uninfluenced by science--Karl Immanuel Nitzsch. It is certainly interesting
to read what this man, as early as 1829, said, in the first edition of his "System der Christlichen
Lehre" ("System of Christian Doctrine"), and also in the succeeding edition printed without
alteration. He says, on page 64: "The miracles of revelation are, in spite of all objective
supernaturalness, derived from their central origin, something really conformable to law: partly
in relation to the higher order of things to which they belong and which is also a world, a
nature in its kind, and acts upon the lower in its way; partly in reference to the similarity
to common nature which they retain in any way; partly on account of their teleological perfection;
and they must not only be expected as the homogeneous phenomenon from the inner miracle of
{362} redemption, from the standpoint of perfect Christian faith, but also by virtue of the
union between spirit and nature, be looked upon as the natural in its kind." In these words
we find the fruitful germs of a sound dogmatic development which the idea of miracles has found
on the part of more recent theology.

Let us, in the first place, try to keep free from all preconceived, correct or incorrect, opinions,
and ask how the miracles appear to us, when they present themselves with a claim to acknowledgment
as integral parts of a divine revelation of salvation, namely, in the religion of redemption
and its record. In regard to their name, they appear to us in the Holy Scriptures as amazing
bright processes, as great deeds and signs; and in regard to their nature, as signs which are
destined to call the attention of man to the government in grace and in judgment of a living
God, to the salvation of redemption which God gives to man, and to the human instruments which
he uses for that purpose. Now, in a view of the world which, like the Biblical, so decidedly
sees a revelation of God in all that which takes place, in a view of the world to which everything
natural has also, as a work of God, its supernatural cause, and everything supernatural, at
present, or in the future, is transposed again into nature and history, not only all those
above rejected conceptions of miracles lose their significance, but all remaining conceptions
with which one otherwise tries to distinguish the miracles from all that is not miraculous,
or to classify the different species of miracles, also diminish in importance, as do also all
those distinctions of direct and indirect actions of God--the distinctions of relative and
absolute, of subjective and objective miracles: and there {363} remains hut a single inviolable
kernel and central point of the Biblical conception of miracles, and that is the above mentioned
teleological character of miracles. Indeed, we are not willing to reject all these logical
distinctions and investigations as worthless: they have helped to render clear our conceptions
and ideas, and they still help. But a deeper investigation of the idea of miracles and its
relation to a scientific knowledge of the world may perhaps finally lead our more developed
reflection back to the fact that we find the quintessence and the nature of miracles only where
the pious people of the Bible found it. And this quintessence of miracles consists precisely
in their teleological nature, and not at all in the fact that they cannot be explained physically:
it consists in the fact that miracles are signs through which God manifests himself and his
government over man, and actually shows the latter that he wishes to bring him to the pursuit
of perfection by the way of redemption. Ritschl, in an essay which appeared in the "Jahrbücher
für Deutsche Theologie," as early as 1861, pointed out this decidedly teleological character
of Biblical miracles and the indifference shown by pious men in the Bible as to the question
whether these deeds and signs can be explained naturally or not.

The profit which we derive from this reverting to the Biblical conception of the idea of miracles
is by no means small.

In the first place, we help to establish the full recognition of that direct religious consciousness
and sensation which is not only characteristic of the pious men of Scripture, but which yet
characterizes all genuine religiousness; and this consists in the fact that the religious man
sees {364} miracles of God in all that turns his attention to God's government,--in the sea
of stars, in rock and bush, in sunshine and storm, in flower and worm, just as certainly as
in the guidance of his own life and in the facts and processes of the history of salvation
and of the kingdom of the Lord. In this idea of miracles, the essential thing is not that the
phenomena and processes are inconceivable to him--although certainly in all that comes into
appearance there is still an incomprehensible and uncomprehended remainder. For a form of nature,
e.g., which turns his attention to a creator, is of course a miracle, even if he is able to
look upon it with none other eye than that of the unlearned: but it even then remains a miracle,--nay,
it is increased to a still greater miracle, if he has learned to contemplate and investigate
it with all the auxiliary means of science. A hearing of his prayers remains a miracle, whether
or not he is able to perceive the natural connection of the process in which he sees his prayers
answered, or even to trace it back to the remotest times which preceded his prayers. The events
and facts of the history of salvation remain miracles to him, whether the history of nature
and the world offers to him auxiliary means of explaining them or not. The pious man, therefore,
does not find the essential characteristic of miracles in their relative inconceivableness,
but in the fact that they refer him to a living God who stands above this process, whether
perceived or unperceived in its relative causal connection, and unites it with the course of
things in order to reach his ends and to manifest himself to man. Now, in our attempt at a
scientific reproduction of the idea of miracles, if we return to that Biblical conception,
we see no longer in this just {365} mentioned religious conception of miracles a pious sophistry
which avoids the difficulty of the idea, or a child-like naïveté worthy of being partly envied
and partly pitied, which does not at all see the difficulties and remains on the child-stage
of Biblical conceptions; but we only perceive in it a confirmation and fulfilment of that profound
and beneficent word of our Lord: "Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom
of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein." Of course, piety as well as science
makes distinctions among miracles. The former separates the mere products and processes of
nature which, through what is explicable as well as what is inexplicable in their qualities
and processes, point to an almighty and all-wise Creator, and thereby become miracles to the
religious view of the world, from the historical events which, by their newness and uniqueness,
and by their pointing toward divine ends, manifest God and his teleological government to man,
and calls them miracles in a still more specific sense than science does. And among historical
events, piety as well as science assigns the name miracle, in the most pregnant sense, to those
events which belong to the history of salvation, and, by their newness and uniqueness, introduce
new stages into it, render legitimate its new instruments, or bring new features of redemption
to our knowledge. Our religiousness has the greatest and deepest interest in this history:
for it is the history of the leading back of man into communion with God by the way of redemption;
and therefore the events of this history are precisely those miracles upon which our deepest
religious interest is concentrated. But in spite of all these distinctions in degree, that
natural relationship and that {366} common character of the miraculous between the miracles
of nature, the miracles of the history of man, and the miracles of the history of salvation,
remain established; and we render a service to religious consciousness, as well as to the scientific
conception of the idea of miracles, if by returning to the Biblical idea of miracles, as we
propose, we make a more comprehensive definition of miracles possible.

Another advantage which we derive from returning to the Biblical idea of miracles consists
in the fact that it preserves us from the magical and necromantic in our conceptions of miracles;
that it allows us a grouping of miracles according to value, which corresponds with the idea
of God and of the divine government as well as with the idea of miracles itself; and that in
the presence of all single relations of miracles it summons us to criticise and investigate
the real state of the case. For the nature of miracles does not consist in the inconceivable--at
least not in the planless and arbitrary,--but in the fact that they call the attention of man
to God and his government; and this leads to the reverse of all that is magical and necromantic,
because the magical is unworthy of the idea of God and contradicts all the other self-testimony
of God. Now if the nature of miracles consists in the fact that they call my attention to God
and his government, an event will become a miracle to me, and increase its value, in the degree
in which it refers me to God and his government, and especially in the degree in which it refers
me to that government of God which is the most important to me--namely, to the action of God
in me and mankind, with which he is bringing about his ends in salvation; {367} but in the
degree in which an event loses this character, it becomes to me an event without miraculous
or religious significance. This gives a quite definite grouping of miracles according to value,
from those which belong to the central manifestations of the divine plan of salvation and way
of redemption, to those which lie in the extreme periphery of religious interest. It is a grouping
which corresponds with the idea of God just as much as with the idea of miracles; while all
other divisions or groupings of miracles according to value, which might take their principle
of division and their weight from the greater or smaller conceivableness of the causal connection,
from the greater or smaller difference of a miraculous event from all other events, are indifferent
in reference to the idea of God, and change the centre of gravity in the idea of miracles.
Besides, if these miracles are to be real signs to me which refer me to God, his government,
and his ways of salvation, they must, in the first place, in order to secure my conviction,
be real events and facts and not mere falsifications and fictions; and this point leads us
to the duty and right of criticising and investigating actual circumstances. In presence of
all Biblical and non-Biblical miracles, we have the full right and the full duty of using criticism
in reference to the confirmation of actual circumstances, and where the latter cannot be established
with certainty, the question is in order whether the related event is really of such a character
as to legitimate itself as a sign of God and his government. In the preceding section, we have
had occasion to use this principle in reference to the investigation of that event which, next
to the coming of the Redeemer, offers itself to us as the {368} central miracle of the history
of salvation and redemption: namely, in reference to the history of the resurrection of the Lord.

We have by no means the wish to avoid difficulties which meet us, when trying to bring miracles,
and especially the specific and pregnant miracles of the history of salvation, into harmony
with our scientific knowledge of the world: only we can no longer admit that these difficulties
consist in the inconceivableness or in the supernaturalism of miracles. For to the religious
view of the world--which traces equally the explicable as well as the inexplicable back to
God, which even derives the natural from the supernatural causality of God--neither the occasional
inexplicability nor the supposed supernaturalness of an event can be that which makes the event
a miracle. But an event in the history of salvation becomes a miracle from the fact that something
extraordinary, something new, happens in it, which by its newness and its extraordinary character
presents itself to man as the manifestation of certain divine ends in salvation, and can be
explained at first sight, but only at first sight, from nothing else than from the service
which it renders to the plan of redemption. Whether afterwards these extraordinary and new
features can or cannot be perceived in their natural connection, or explained out of it, does
not at all change anything in the miraculous character of the event, as soon as it has once
had the before-mentioned effect. The only task and the only difficulty which meets us in the
question of miracles, is to show that such extraordinary and new things really happen, and
to bring the reality and possibility of such new things into our perception of the {369} causal
connection of the course of the world, conformable to law. But it ceases to be a difficulty,
so soon as we acknowledge a teleology in the course of the world and a teleology in the history
of mankind, and especially as soon as we acknowledge that teleology in the history of mankind
which, by the way of the divine means of redemption, leads man back to God. Where there are
no ends, nothing can happen which calls the attention of men to these ends; nor, indeed, can
anything new happen; for nothing prevails in more absolute sovereignty to all eternity than
the maxims causa æquat effectum and effectus æquat causam. But where ends are appointed and
reached, something new also happens; and every new thing refers to its end. For each step leading
nearer such an end is something new, and refers, as soon as we compare it with preceding steps,
to the end towards which it strives. All ends to which the course of things refers us, are
to the religious view of the world ends which are appointed by God; all means which serve to
reach the ends, are means which God created and chose; and every phenomenon and every event
which manifests this teleological government of God to our mind, is a miracle to us. Now this
whole course of the world is interwoven with such new things, in events which manifest to us,
now more clearly, now more dimly, the striving of the course of the world towards an end, because
the latter is really striving towards an end. Even prehistoric times show us new things which,
from a scientific and historical point of view, we have to place in the line of the course
of the world; and from a religious point of view, in the line of miracles. The first appearance
of organic life on earth was new, and indicated new ends; the first {370} appearance of each
single species of animals and plants was new; new, also, and indicating the highest end of
creative life, was the first appearance of man. All these things we call miracles of creation;
and we especially place the creative miracle of the appearance of man on a level with the greatest
miracles of which we have knowledge, and use the name miracle for all before mentioned newly
appearing formations, whether or not we are able to explain those originations from the preceding
connection of the course of nature and its forces. Now, in the history of mankind, where the
intellectual and ethical motives of that which happens become active, where also the greatest
ends which come up for consideration are spiritual and ethical ends, where man himself acts
freely according to ends, and where, therefore, human and divine teleology come alternately
into play, the manifestation of a striving toward an end, in which religious consciousness
immediately sees also ends and means of God, is repeated in an eminent degree. Every event
which brings about a progress in the history of mankind as well as of individuals, is as to
this side something new, extraordinary, teleological: i.e., a miracle to the religious mode
of contemplation; and this miracle is the greater as is more important the end under consideration,
and the greater and the more decisive the step towards this end which the event accomplishes.
Now, if we recognize the return of mankind into a communion with God as the highest goal of
the general and individual history of mankind, and if we find in the latter facts which lead
to this goal, then these facts are the great central miracles of history. As such, the facts
of redemption present {371} themselves with all that for which it once prepared the way; and,
now that it has come, leads to full and complete perfection--and among them all, the coming,
the person, and the history of Jesus Christ, stands as central fact and central miracle in
the midst of all events in the history of salvation, and forms the central point of all religious
interest. We see how unjust it is when one urges, as an objection to a belief in miracles,
that it assigns to God arbitrary and capricious actions. We call the manifestations of divine
teleology miracles. But striving towards an end and conformity to a regular plan is not arbitrariness
or caprice, but the contrary; and the greater our estimate of the highest cause of all things,
the greater will appear to us the conformity to a plan and to law of all which presents itself
as miracles in the course of events. There is perhaps one objection which is about as equally
unjust as the objection of caprice; and that is the objection that faith in miracles, in teaching
a belief in supernatural things, lends to introduce into the course of events something which
is against nature. But since miracles, as a sign of divine teleology, manifest ends for which
nature also is prepared, and through which the fallen nature of man, fallen by sin, is again
restored; and since to the religious view of the world all natural phenomena and processes
expressly rank among miracles, the faith in miracles teaches the contrary of an opposition
to nature. It is incontestible--and will become still clearer and more certain to us through
all farther investigation of the subject--that the acknowledgment of the idea of miracles as
a necessary and a justified part of religiousness {372} stands and falls with the acknowledgment
of a teleological view of the world.

We certainly do not indulge in the foolish hope that with the deductions of this section we
should be able suddenly to win over any of the decided adversaries of faith in providence and
miracles. For, as we have had occasion to remind the reader, the acknowledgment or the non-acknowledgment
of God and his living government in the world is not the result of this or that reflection
and chain of conclusions, but rather an ethical action of the centre of human personality in
which God discovers himself in his self-manifestation. Now, if this centre, in the freedom
of its decision, has once denied the acknowledgment of God and his government, then the intellectual
actions of the soul offer themselves to this atheistic and anti-theistic standpoint, and build
up atheistic systems in which the ideas of providence and miracles naturally find no place.
Thus system is opposed to system, although the one is not able to overcome the other. For the
last and deepest power of conviction lies, neither for one nor the other system, in its chains
of conclusions, in its superstructure, but in its foundation, its standpoint, and its principles;
and the choosing of one or the other standpoint, the theistic or atheistic, is an ethical action
which precedes methodical reasoning--or if it takes place at the same time or precedes it,
has still deeper motives than those of more or less clear forms of mere reasoning. But we believe,
and we wish and hope in our modest way to have shown by our present investigation, that the
standpoint of faith also has its logical and justified science, and that it is able to appreciate
the {373} world of the real more universally and candidly, and offers to logical reasoning
fewer and less important difficulties, than the systems of atheism.

We have now discussed all the essential and direct points of contacts between Christianity
and the theory of evolution. But a remaining part, still more closely related to the centre
of the Christian view of the world, yet offers some indirect points of contact which demand
treatment.

§ 5. The Redeemer and the Redemption. The Kingdom of God and the Acceptance of Salvation.

As soon as it is once an established fact that an evolution theory of the origin of man as
a merely scientific theory permits all the valuable qualities of man, when they have once come
into existence, to show themselves undiminished in their entire greatness and importance, and
must so permit them, then the whole Christian view of the world, of the Redeemer, his person,
his course of redemption, and his work, remains entirely untouched by all these scientific
theories of evolution. Yet the Biblical representation, the orthodox perception, and the actual
history of the Redeemer and his work, present us with some evidences which are rather in sympathy
than in antipathy with these scientific theories. First, the long preparation for his birth,
which began immediately after the fall of man and stretched over at least four thousand years,
perhaps over a much longer period, the special preparation of his human genealogy, the selection,
separation, and guidance of the ancestor and of the people of Israel, of the tribe, the family,
and finally of the mother of Jesus--all these are manifestly {374} just as favorable to the
idea of evolution as they would have been to the idea of a sudden creation of man out of nothing,
if Christ, the second Adam, had come into existence by a sudden creation. Moreover, the Redeemer
himself was wholly subject to the ordinary laws of development of the human individual, and
was, from his annunciation and conception, developed entirely like man in the long process
of evolution from the egg and its still absolutely indifferent spiritual worth through all
the imperceptible stages of development before and after the birth up to the full age of man.
Likewise the result of his course of salvation, redemption, and entrance into the kingdom of
God, underwent the same process of gradual development. It began with a few disciples, and
was slowly propagated; it has to-day reached but a small part of mankind, and even where it
took root, it sees infinitely many things by its side which it has not yet been able to penetrate
with its leaven:--facts which have much more elective affinity with the scientific ideas of
development than with those of sudden creations.

Finally, precisely the same analogy forces itself upon us in the Christian doctrine of the
way of salvation. The work of the Holy Spirit in the human individual is nothing less than
a new birth; its aim is the revival of the entire man, in mind, soul, and body. In most men,
this work takes place by a slow process, advancing step by step. This gradual course is even
the rule in Christianized nations; although a decisive change of mind often enough, though
by no means always, takes place in marked epochs of the inner history of life. And in all Christians--even
in those whose conversion takes place by a sudden awakening, like that of Paul--the {375} transformation
of the entire man into the similarity of Christ, and the full restoration of the image of God,
is certainly a process of development, and must await its completion in the resurrection. This
view is also confirmed by the Lord's parable of the seed, growing up imperceptibly.

Every believing Christian knows these facts, and judges and acts according to them: therefore,
when in the realm of nature, which God certainly submitted to the free investigation of the
human mind, he meets similar views, what right has he to protest against them as being hostile
to religion?

§ 6. Eschatology.

In our discussion of the preceding questions, we have seen that an entirely neutral, not to
say friendly, relationship is taking place between religion and the theories of development,
which will continue so long as the latter keep within the limits of their proper realm, the
perception of nature; and that a hostile relation takes place, and anti-religious attacks are
to be guarded against, only when a disbelieving system of metaphysics, which has grown on other
ground, in an uncalled-for way, tries to connect itself closely with the theory of descent.
This is in an eminent degree the case with the great eschatological hopes of Christianity.
The evolution theory so exclusively contents itself with the attempts at perceiving the causal
circumstances of organisms in the present world, that it does not at all wish to, and cannot,
express itself concerning the end and goal of the world and the laws and circumstances which
may reign in a future æon, and that it gives free scope to every perception of the ultimate
which might come from another source. {376}

On the other hand, Christian eschatology is alone able to do most essential service to the
evolution theory, in case it should be verified, by giving an answer to questions to which
the evolution theory tends more decidedly than any other scientific theory--namely, to the
questions as to the end of the world and mankind, with such distinctions as no philosophy which
treats of the doctrines of nature, is able to give, although natural science itself demands
the answer to these questions the more peremptorily, the higher the points of view are to which
it leads us.

The world shows to every investigating eye a development, whether we have to take this development
as descent or as successive new creation; and therefore we shall take, in the following discussion,
the idea of development in this broad sense which comprises all conceivable attempts at explanation.
All nature--its most comprehensive cosmic realms as well as the realms of its smallest organisms--together
with the corporeal, psychical, and spiritual nature of man, shows a harmony, a conformity to
the end in view, and a striving toward an end of its development, the denial of which will
certainly not add to the laurels which transmit the scientific fame of our present generation
to posterity. Now, what is this end? The answer which we receive from those who reject Christian
eschatology, may be given by two scientific antipodes: by Strauss and Eduard von Hartmann.
Strauss takes sides with those who reject all striving toward an end in nature; and his answer
to the question (which still asserts itself in his system of the world), is: eternal circular
motion of the universe, death of all individuals and of all complexes of individuals, even
of {377} mankind. Eduard von Hartmann, on the other hand, is filled by the knowledge of the
teleological, but he rejects the hope of Christians and the end which offers itself to him
in the place of the rejected end of Christian hope, is destruction--destruction of all individuals
and destruction of the world. In view of such ends, is not the Christian's hope the answer
which not only satisfies the deepest ethical and religious need, but also all heights and depths
of the most faithful, most devoted, and most enlightened investigation of nature?

