The remainder of the speech was lost to every body but the speaker, as all the boys, by this
time, were talking at once. It is a wonder to me that they did not take the matter altogether
into their own hands, and give Jake the flogging which they thought he so richly deserved;
for Michael was a great favorite among them, and they could not bear to see him abused. But
I believe they contented themselves with letting off ever so many vials of wrath, in the shape
of words; and Jake Grumble, finding how matters stood, walked sulkily away.

"Now, Mike, what are you going to do?" asked one of the boys.

"Do about what?" asked the injured boy.

"About the bloody nose that Jake gave you," was the reply.

"I'm going to see if I can't stop its bleeding," said Mike.

"No, I don't mean that," said the other. "I mean what are you going to do to Jake?"

"Oh," said Mike, "I guess I'll pay him off, one of these days."

"And why not now?" the boy asked.

"I've got as much on my hands as I can attend to, just now," said Mike.

How do you suppose Jake felt, that day, after his cruel treatment of one of his playmates?
What do you suppose were his feelings, when he found out what all the boys thought of his conduct;
and when he had time to reflect upon the folly and wickedness of what he had done? Perhaps
you can guess pretty well how he felt. Possibly you have yourself wronged some one of your
playmates, and recollect how you felt about it, when you had a chance to get away somewhere,
alone, to think over your conduct. If so, you can give a pretty rational guess as to the kind
of feelings that were at work in Jake's bosom, on his way home from school that day.

He did not go home in company with the rest of the boys and girls who went in the same direction.
He was in the habit of doing so. But he felt so much ashamed on account of what he had done,
that he could not bear to see the faces of any of the children.

Instead of taking the public road that led directly to his father's house, he went through
the gate that led into Deacon Stark's pasture, and followed the cart-path through the woods.
It was a great deal farther that way. But he went through the woods so as to get clear of his
playmates. One of the deacon's hired men saw the boy, leaning against the fence, just at the
edge of the woods. Poor fellow! he was crying, as if his heart would break. So the man said.
Jake got the worst of it, in that affair. Don't you think he did?

But I have not got through with the story yet, and I must go on with it.

Time passed on--days, weeks, and even months, came and went--but Mike did not "pay off" the
boy who had so unjustly abused him. His companions urged him to do it, until they got out of
patience, and concluded to give the matter up.

As for Jake, it was as much as he could do to look Mike in the face. He avoided him, as much
as possible, and seemed to be unhappy whenever he came near him. But Mike, on his part, treated
the boy who had injured him just as if nothing had happened.

I have often noticed, that where there has been any difficulty between two persons, the one
who was at fault is more apt to cherish unkind feelings than the one who was innocent. It was
so in this case. Jacob treated Michael as if it were Michael rather than himself, who had been
in the wrong. He never spoke to him, when he could help it; and when he did say any thing to
him, he spoke peevishly, and pressed the words between his teeth, as if he had the lockjaw.

One day, during that interesting season of the year when the farmers are busy making hay, Jake
had occasion to pass through Mr. Marble's meadow, with his fishing rod, on his way to the "deep
hole," where, as every body in the neighborhood knew, multitudes of sun fish and perch were
always to be found, ready for a nice bit of an angle-worm.

Jake, being a little thirsty--for it was a very warm day--went up to the tree under which Mr.
Marble kept the refreshments for his hired men, and took up the wooden bottle to drink. There
was nothing wrong, perhaps, in the liberty he took, though I think it would have been quite
as well, if he had asked Mr. Marble's consent in the first place. But we will let that pass.
Jake had a different way of doing things.

As I said, he took up the bottle to drink. But the moment he did so, Ranter, Mr. Marble's old
dog, who lay under the tree, where he had been stationed to keep watch, thinking his master's
property was in danger, flew at the boy, and caught him by the arm. Poor Jake! he yelled lustily,
you may be sure. But it did no good. Ranter held him in his jaws, as tight as if he were a
woodchuck or a rabbit, instead of a school-boy.

Mike was spreading hay, at the time, some twenty yards off, or more and hearing the boy crying
for help, and looking in the direction from which the voice came, he saw Jake fast in the clutches
of the dog. In an instant he shouted, as loud as he could scream, "Here, Ranter! here, Ranter!"
and in another instant, Ranter let go of the poor boy, and bounded away towards his young master.

Jake, as you may suppose, and as Mike found, when he went to him, was very badly bitten. The
blood ran from his arm quite as freely as it did from Mike's nose, some time before that.

"Did Ranter hurt you much?" asked Mike, kindly.

"Very badly, I'm afraid," said Jake, almost frantic with pain and fright.

Mike said he was sorry, and expressed his wonder that Ranter could be so cruel. Then he ran
and called his father, who was busy in another part of the meadow, when the accident happened,
and who did not hear Jake's call for help. Mr. Marble had the boy taken to his house, where
his wound was nicely dressed, and where the utmost care was taken of him by the whole family,
among whom Mike was the foremost. It was two or three days before it was thought prudent to
remove the sufferer to his father's house; and during that time there was no one, not even
Jacob's own mother, who was more kind and attentive to him than Mike Marble.

The time came when the wounded boy was able to go home. An hour or two before the wagon was
to come for him, he was sitting in an easy chair, with the wounded arm lying on a pillow, and
Mike, as usual, was at his side. There happened to be no one else in the chamber besides the
two boys.

"Mike," said the other, "I want to say something to you."

"What is it?" asked Mike.

"I don't know how to say it," was the answer.

And there was a pause. Jacob had undertaken a task which was entirely new to him, and he did
not know how to begin it. At length he tried again:

"Mike," said he, "I struck you once--it was a good while ago--do you remember it?"

"Yes," Mike said.

"Well, I am sorry I struck you," said Jacob, and burst into tears.

"I knew you were sorry," said Mike, "and I have forgiven you, long ago."

"Do you forgive me?" asked Jacob, earnestly.

"I do, from my heart," said Mike.

Then followed another flood of tears. This time it was a good while before Jacob could speak,
so as to be understood, and when he did speak, it was only to say,

"Oh, Mike, you are so kind! You seem like a brother to me."

Jacob's father came into the room just at this moment, and nothing more was said by either
of the boys on the subject which so deeply affected Jacob. But Mike saw, plainly enough, that
the heart of the boy who had injured him was melted, and he was satisfied.

How warmly Jacob pressed Mike's hand, when he bade him "good bye," and started for home.

Not long after that, Mike met one of the boys who had urged him so strongly to return the blow
that Jacob gave him.

"Well," said Mike, "I've done it."

"Done what?" asked the other boy.

"Paid him off," said Mike.

"What, Jake Grumble?"

"Yes."

"Good. Tell me all about it."

And Mike did tell him all about it.

"Well, I do say for it, Mike," said the other boy, after listening to the whole story, "you
are just the queerest fellow that I ever saw or heard of."

"But don't you think that was about the best way to pay him off, after all?" asked Mike.

"Well," said the other boy, after a moment's pause, "I declare I don't know but it was, when
I come to think of it."

And don't you think it was the best way to pay him off, reader? I do, and I should be glad
if every body would learn to pay such debts in very much the same way. It may be a very queer
mode of taking revenge. But it seems to me quite a sensible one; and I am sure it is a thousand
times better than the mode that people so often choose.

CHAP. VII.

MIKE'S CROTCHETS IN WAR-TIME.

You have heard a great deal about the Revolutionary War. You have heard what hardships our
forefathers went through, while they were fighting the battles of liberty. But I doubt if you
can form, in your own mind, any thing like a true picture of what those brave men suffered.
Why, many of them had to go barefoot, for whole weeks at a time, right in the heart of winter.
They could hardly get food to eat; and many and many a time, if it had not been for the thought
that they were engaged in a good cause, and that God was on their side, they must have been
discouraged, and given up all as lost. But they did not give up. They stood firm at their post,
until they either fell before their enemies, or perished by fatigue and exposure.

When the tidings came to the neighborhood where Mike Marble lived, that Washington's noble
band were suffering every thing but death at Valley Forge, every man and woman, that could
boast of any thing in the shape of a heart, were moved with pity. And they were not the people
to let their kind feelings go off in fog and smoke. They were not blustering people. They believed
in acting, as well as in talking. When they had heard the sad news, the next question was,
"Can we do any thing?" That question was soon answered. The next was, "What can we do?" Well,
it was pretty soon found out that all could do something--that some could do one thing, and
some another; but that every family in the parish could do something.

So they went to work. The mothers and daughters went to knitting stockings, and making under
garments for the soldiers. Every chest of drawers, and wardrobe, and closet in the house was
ransacked, to find bed-quilts and blankets for the army. And the fathers and sons, they went
to work, with a right good will, to get shoes, and hats, and coats, and other articles of wearing
apparel, so as to have them ready at the time the agent from the commander-in-chief should
pass through the place.

The younger branches of the families in that neighborhood, too, caught the spirit of their
fathers and mothers. I must tell you a story about the agency of the little folks in furnishing
supplies for the army.

Mike Marble asked his father, one day, if he might call a meeting of the boys and girls at
his house, to talk over war matters. The old man laughed, and said he might, if he chose. "But
what do you children expect to do for the army, Mike?" he added. "What can you do, I should
like to know?"

"I don't know, father," was the reply, "but I guess we can all do something; I'm pretty sure
I can, for one."

Well, the meeting was called. The schoolmaster gave out notice, one afternoon, that all the
boys and girls were invited to Mr. Marcus Marble's house, the next Wednesday, at "early candlelight,"
and, to quote the precise language of Mike's invitation--for he had it all written out, and
the schoolmaster read it word for word--that business of importance would be brought before
the meeting, which would be made known at that time.

When the hour of "early candlelight" arrived, and, indeed, before the hour of late daylight
had closed, there was a crowd of boys and girls assembled in Mr. Marble's kitchen, to talk
over matters and things about the war. They appointed a chairman, (if chairman he could be
called, who had numbered less than a dozen summers,) the object of the meeting was stated,
and they went as orderly to work in their deliberations, as if they had been playing statesmen
for half a century. Only one grown person--Mr. Marble--was admitted into the kitchen, and he
was there only as a listener. He did not take any part in the proceedings.

My grandfather was the chairman of the evening, and the principal orator was Mike Marble. His
speech at the time was not reported, nor have I any notes of it at hand. But my grandfather
used to say it was one of the most eloquent addresses he ever heard in his life. I can easily
believe it. One half of what is necessary in an orator is to feel what he says. If he feels,
it is not so much, matter in what shape the words come from his mouth. I am a firm believer
in a good style. People who speak in public ought to use chaste and elegant language. But a
good style, and ever so good a delivery, are worth but little, unless the speaker has a soul,
and unless he can make his hearers feel because he feels.

Mike was in earnest. It looked a little like boy's play, to be sure, to see that group of children
there, talking about great principles. But it was something more than play. Mike was in earnest,
and his words, as he was describing the sufferings of the army at Valley Forge, came warm and
flowing from his heart. If the character of a speech can be judged of from the effect it has,
certainly the one from Mike Marble deserves a high rank; for he carried all the boys and girls
along with him. Other speeches were made; but Mike was the Webster of the evening.

Well, what do you think that little band of patriots resolved to do? I doubt whether you can
guess. The first thing they did was to find out how much cash each one had laid aside, to be
used for spending money on such occasions as Thanksgiving, and Christmas, and Training day.

"For my part," said Mike, "I would rather never spend another cent for sugar plums in my life,
than to have the soldiers go barefoot on the snow. I tell you what it is, fellow-countrymen--(Mr.
Marble was observed by the chairman to bite his lips, to keep in a good round laugh, when those
words, fellow-countrymen, came out)--I tell you what it is, the things that are wanted now
are boots, and shoes, and stockings, and jackets--and not gingerbread, and sugar plums, and
spruce beer, and gimcracks of that kind."

When the little patriots came to count up their money, they found it amounted to more than
ten dollars. And it was none of your paltry continental stuff. It was all made up of good hard
silver and copper.

The next thing they did was to appoint a treasurer, to take charge of the money, and to see
that it was paid over to Washington's agent, who was to be instructed to pay it all out in
shoes. And that was not all these young statesmen did. They resolved that they would give to
the army every cent of all the spending money they might get, as long as the war lasted. Didn't
they do their work pretty well, my little lad? I think they did. They did what they could.
La Fayette and Washington did no more. You will smile when I tell you one thing which was proposed
that evening. One of the boys thought it would be a good plan to turn over to the poor soldiers
all the stockings and shoes belonging to the assembly. He thought they could get along better
walking on the snow with their bare feet, than the troops could. But some one, with a little
more forethought than this generous-hearted speaker, suggested that the soldiers at Valley
Forge would find it difficult to get on such stockings and shoes as the Blue Hill boys had
to bestow. So that scheme failed. But it shows what stuff those lads were made of. It shows
what kind, generous, noble, self-denying hearts beat in their bosoms.

I declare to you I am more than ever proud of my native land, when I think what our ancestors
did, in old times, to obtain our freedom for us. God grant that we may know how to value our
blessings, that we may ever be thankful for them, and that we may not abuse the liberty that
has been given to us. I do not want my young readers to grow up, with their hearts full of
the spirit of war. I love peace more than war. War I know to be a terrible thing. Seldom, very
seldom would I go to war--never, unless for some great principle, such as that for which our
forefathers contended. No, I do not wish to have you get your heads and hearts full of the
war spirit. But I do want you to be patriots. I want you to love your country; to be willing
to make sacrifices for it; to look upon it as the brightest and dearest spot on earth. Our
liberty cost a great deal--a great deal of money, of hardship, of suffering, and, what is more
valuable than all, a great deal of blood. It cost too much to be lightly valued--too much to
be trifled with. Take care that you never get into the habit which some, who are much older
than you, have fallen into, of looking upon the union of these states as a matter, after all
has been said and done, of not much consequence. I tell you the bonds which bind us together
is a sacred one; and, next to the tie which binds us together in families, ought to be, to
you and to me, the dearest tie on earth.

CHAP. VIII.

THE BUMBLE-BEES' NEST.

All the boys and girls who live in the country, and probably a large share of those who live
in the city, know the bumble-bee. We had a little different name for him in our neighborhood.
Bumble-bee was, however, the only name the family was known by, in Willow Lane, and I think
it quite possible that such a corruption, (if it is a corruption, and the wise ones tell us
it is, though I should like to see them beat the notion into the head of any one of the hundred
children who went to our school,) is very common in New England.

The nests of these insects, you may not be aware, are made in the ground. These nests are frequently
found in meadows, about the time the grass is mowed; and it not unfrequently happens that the
mower disturbs one of these nests with his scythe, in which case, the first information the
poor man obtains of the existence of the nest is from a score or two of the bumble-bees themselves--(we'll
call them bumble-bees, for the sake of peace, though I must confess I feel a great partiality
for the name by which I knew the rogues when I used to be familiar with their nests)--the bumble-bees
themselves, who fly into his face, before he has time to retreat, and sting him until they
get tired of the sport.

In these nests, there is usually more or less honey. Sometimes there is half a pint, or more.
This honey is very palatable; and it is not an uncommon thing for children to brave the danger
of being stung by the bees, for the sake of capturing a nest and getting possession of its
treasures. For myself, I never was ambitious of getting renown by such means as besieging a
bumble-bee's nest.

I'll tell you what I did perform, though, once on a time, which was closely connected with
the race of insects I am speaking of. It is a common tradition among country boys, that white-faced
bumble-bees never sting, and that you can take them in your hands with perfect safety. This
tradition may have truth at the bottom of it, or it may not. I cannot tell, and I shall not
stop to debate the question now. It is certain that there is an insect, very much resembling
the bumble-bee, and of about the same size, who, nevertheless, is a very different fellow.
This is the chap that bores holes into dry wood, as nicely as you can bore with a gimlet, on
which account he is sometimes called the borer. This insect does not sting. No thanks to him,
though, for not stinging. He has no instrument to sting with. For aught I know, he may have
ever so good a will to sting; but he has no power to do so, any more than a grasshopper or
a butterfly.

Well, I wanted to show some of the boys, one day, how smart I was. I had an idea that I could
teach them something, and at the same time get the credit for a little bit of bravery.

"Do you see that saucy chap there," I asked, "on that clover blossom?"

"Yes," said one of the boys, "it is a bumble-bee." This time I must be permitted to say the
spelling of the word, because the boys in pronouncing it, give the sound of the b, and I, as
a historian, must report their conversation faithfully.

"Well." I said, "what will you give me, if I'll take this fellow in my hand."

It was intimated that nothing could be expected from the boys, but that the bumble-bee would
be likely to give me something which I would remember, until "the cows came home." I don't
know what period in the future that intended to point to, but I know that was a common expression
among us all--one which we used, I suppose, without stopping to think what it meant, or how
it got into use.

"I dare do it," I said. I was as bold as a lion.

"You had better not," said the boys.

I did it, though. I caught the bumble-bee, and held him fast in my hand. But if ever a poor
fellow got handsomely and foolishly stung, I was that unfortunate youth; and the worst of it
was, that while I was dancing about, and wringing my hand, and crying, on account of the pain,
my companions were doing quite another thing: they were holding a laughing concert, at my expense.

It is hardly necessary to add, that my white-faced bumble-bee turned out to be an enemy in
disguise. After that event, I made a closer examination of the faces of this class of insects,
and became satisfied that there was one tribe of bumble-bees who wore a face of a pale yellow
color, resembling somewhat the genuine borer, but who, for all that, could sting as well as
any of their race with black faces.

This feat was as near as I ever got toward the glory of capturing a nest of bumble-bees. I
have tasted the honey which came from their nests, though, many a time, and I have seen other
boys capture the nests.

Billy Bolton was a great fellow at that kind of sport. Billy lived with Uncle Mike. He did
chores--to use a word common enough in New England, though, possibly, not an elegant one--on
Mr. Marble's farm; that is, he went for the cows and drove them to pasture, fed the pigs and
poultry, brought water and chips for the "women folks," and ran of errands.

It was a favorite sport with Billy, in the summer time, to hunt for bumble-bees' nests, and
to "take them up," as the process of capturing them was called. Uncle Mike did not like to
indulge the boy in this kind of sport. Perhaps he thought it a cruel and unfeeling kind of
fun; and I know he had too kind a heart, to see a boy growing up in his family with a taste
for cruelty to animals of any kind. At any rate, the danger connected with the sport was enough
to condemn it in the mind of Mr. Marble.

He had forbidden Billy and his own children having any thing to do with the sport. Still, it
seemed Billy found means to amuse himself, now and then, in a sly way, by taking up a bumble-bees'
nest.

One day, Mr. Marble and his men were engaged in the meadow, raking hay and carting it into
the barn. Billy was in the meadow, too, at work among the hay, raking after the cart, I presume,
as that used to be the task always allotted to me when I was of his age. In a corner of the
lot, at some distance from the place where Mr. Marble and his men were at work, there was a
large bottle containing water--nothing but water, reader; there was no rum drank on Mr. Marble's
farm. Billy was sent after the bottle. He was gone a good while--longer, Mr. Marble thought,
than was necessary. The matter was examined, when it turned out that Billy had got into trouble
with a nest of bumble-bees. He had discovered a nest of these wretches, it appears; and, the
temptation to wage war against them being very strong, he had stopped a moment, just to take
up the nest.

Poor fellow! It proved to be a taking in, instead of a taking up, and the taking in was on
the other side. When he saw that the bumble-bees had outwitted him, he snatched up the bottle,
which he had thrown down, and which was lying near, and ran, as fast as his legs would let
him, towards the place where the men were at work. But the bees flew faster than he could run.
It was a comic scene enough to see the fellow running at the top of his speed, and some fifty
bumble-bees after him, once in a while giving expression to their feelings, by saluting him,
in their peculiar way, in the face and on the neck. Didn't the poor fellow scream?

But this was not the whole of the joke. Indeed, it was hardly the richest part of it. Mr. Marble,
who saw what was going on, stood ready with his cart whip; and when Billy made his appearance,
with a regiment of bumble-bees about his ears, he commenced beating him with the whip. Away
ran the boy, and Mr. Marble chased him some half a dozen rods, and gave him about as many blows
with the cart whip.

"There, you young rogue!" said Mr. Marble, as he turned to go back to his work again, "between
me and the bumble-bees, I guess you have learned one good lesson thoroughly this afternoon.
You will be a wiser boy, I think, after this. You will be a smarter one, I'm sure; at least,
for a while."

CHAP. IX.

HOW A BARN WAS BUILT.

Mike Marble, as I think I have said before, was a kind-hearted man. But he had his own way
of doing every thing, and that way was very generally quite unlike most other people's way.
No man ever liked better to do any body a good turn. But he had his crotchets about an act
of charity, as well as about every thing else.

A neighbor went to him once, to ask him for some money to aid him in building a barn. The old
one had burned down, and it was a great loss to him, he said. He hardly knew how he should
get along, unless his neighbor loaned him a little money.

But Uncle Mike refused the neighbor's petition. "Money was scarce, very scarce." That was all
the answer the unfortunate man could get from Mike Marble.

"This is strange enough," he mused in his own mind, as he walked away from Mr. Marble's door.
"Strange enough! so kind-hearted and generous as he always has been, when any body was in distress."

The next day, however, bright and early, Uncle Mike yoked up his oxen, (some three pairs, I
believe, including the steers, which needed something more than moral suasion to keep them
straight,) fastened them to the cart, and posted off, with two or three men, to the saw mill.
There he and his men loaded the cart with boards and planks. Then he drove straight to the
house of the unfortunate neighbor, opened the great gate, without saying a word to any member
of the family, went into the door yard with his load, and threw it off within a few yards of
the spot where the old barn stood.

"What on earth does all that mean?" thought the female portion of the family. The farmer and
his boys were not at home at the time. Nothing was said, however.

Again Uncle Mike drove over to the mill; again he put on a load of timber; again he threw it
off near the site of the old barn. Three loads were discharged there, and then he directed
his men to go home with the team. He himself went to one of his neighbors, and asked him if
he had any timber of any kind already sawed at Squire Murdock's mill.

"Yes," was the answer, "a little; why?"

"Well, I want some of it, if it's the right kind. What is it?"

"I don't recollect exactly--some white oak joists, I guess, and some inch boards."

"Good. Just what I want."

Suffice it to say, that Mike Marble did not leave his neighbor before he got a promise from
him that he would contribute a load or two of his timber to rebuild that barn. Then he went
to another neighbor, and another, and did something like the same errand, with very much the
same sort of success. He called on a boss carpenter, too, and secured his services in framing
the barn; and, on his way home, he stopped at Slocum's blacksmith's shop, and got the promise
of some nails.

Well, it was not long before the neighbors were all called together to raise Deacon Metcalf's
barn, and it was not long after that before the building was ready for use. And how much do
you think it cost him? Not a cent--not a single cent, the neighbors managed the thing so well.
Even the good things on the supper table, when they had their "raising bee," were sent in by
the neighbors.

And the whole scheme, you see, came from the crotchety brain of our friend, Mike Marble. That
was his way of building a neighbor's barn, when any help was needed for that purpose.

CHAP. X.

ANOTHER BLOCK OF MARBLE.

This story about the building of the deacon's barn brings to my mind another, pretty closely
related to it. Will you hear that, too?

One morning, as Uncle Mike was walking out, he saw a boy sitting down on the door steps of
one of his neighbors. Upon a closer inspection of the lad it appeared that he was a poor boy,
without any parents, who was wandering about, doing odd jobs, here and there, and getting what
people had a mind to pay him for his services.

He was not a common vagrant, exactly, and yet he came very near being one. It was not supposed
that he was a vicious boy; still it could not be denied that the life he led was tolerably
well calculated to make him vicious, and most of the neighbors were afraid to have him about
their houses, without keeping a sharp look out on his movements.

Mr. Marble had heard of the lad, though it so happened that he had never met him until this time.

"Hallo, there, my boy!" said Uncle Mike, "what are you so busy about?"

"Eating a cold johnny-cake, sir," was the laconic answer.

"And how do you like it?"

"Pretty well, though I guess a little butter wouldn't hurt it."

"Look here, my lad," said Uncle Mike, "what do you do generally for a living?"

"A little of every thing."

"Are you willing to work?"

"Yes, sir, if I can get any thing for it."

"Will you work for me?"

"I wouldn't mind trying it."

"I am a hard-working man. Will you work like a dog, if I'll let you try?"

"Please, sir, I'd rather work like a boy."

"Good. You shall go home with me."

And he took the boy home with him. The first thing he set him about was weeding the onion bed.
It was hard work, as I know from experience. Oh, how it makes a poor fellow's back ache, to
stoop down and weed onions for half a day. You must know that you can't use the hoe more than
about a quarter of the time. If you could, the work would be comparatively easy and pleasant.
But you can't do that. You must bend right down to the task, as if you really loved the onions,
and were nursing them, as a fond mother nurses a pet child.

"Well, Fred," said the old gentleman, when the dinner horn blew its blast of invitation for
the workmen to come in and pay their respects to Mrs. Marble's boiled pork and cabbage, "well,
Fred, how do you like weeding onion beds?"

"Very well, sir," said the boy.

"And would you like to keep at it all the afternoon?"

"I would like to please you, sir. That's what I came here for."

The old man was so much delighted with this answer, that he not only laughed at it all the
time he was at dinner, but he told it all over the neighborhood in less than a week.

"Well, Fred," said he, "I guess you've done enough of that sort of work for one day. I want
you to do two or three errands after you have done your dinner."

And he sent the lad to I don't know how many different places, to do all sorts of errands.
Among other things he directed him to do, was to go to the store with money, to purchase some
little articles for his wife. You see the old man wanted to try the new comer, and see if he
was faithful.

Well, every thing was done properly, and Uncle Mike was satisfied.

The next day, Fred had other tasks given to him. His employer selected those which were hardest
and most unpleasant, as he said, "to break the little fellow in." I'll tell you one thing he
did. He sent him out to catch the old mare. Now the old mare had a knack of kicking those who
came to catch her, when she was not perfectly satisfied with their mode of doing the business;
and she did not at all like the sly and timid way in which Fred came up to her, with the bridle
concealed behind his back. She was a great lover of fair and open dealing; though, like some
others of her race, that I am acquainted with, as well as some who belong to quite a different
race, and who have the name of being a good deal wiser, she did not always practice herself
the virtues she so highly commended in others.

She waited until the lad had got within a few feet of her, and then she whirled round, before
the poor fellow, who was half frightened out of his wits, could have time to get out of her
way, and let her heels fly into the air over his head. It was well for the boy that she took
her aim so high. If it had been a foot or two lower, the breaking in would have been an expensive
one to Fred--a very expensive one, indeed.

In such ways as those I have named, and in a great many other ways, which I need not name,
Uncle Mike tried the boy, to see what he was made of. He found out, before long, what he was
made of. He found out that there was just such stuff in him as he liked. The more he tried
him--the more he "broke him in"--the better he was pleased with him.

Well, I'll tell you how that affair with the beggar turned--for I must not make too long a
story of it--Uncle Mike brought up the lad. He taught him all the mysteries of farming, and
treated him as if he were a member of his own family--one of his own children--until he was
twenty-one. Then he told him he was free to go where he chose. He gave him a hundred dollars
in money, a yoke of oxen, a fine colt, and, what was of more value than all, his blessing.

And what do you think became of Fred? He turned out to be not only a good farmer, but a good
neighbor, and a good man, every way. That same man, who was once a beggar, and who, but for
Uncle Mike's odd way of doing a kind act for him, might have remained a beggar, is now one
of the most highly respected men in his parish, with enough property to make him and his family
comfortable, as well as some to spare for the comfort of others.

CHAP. XI.

MIKE MARBLE'S LAST DAYS.

I should love to chat about my old friend a good while longer. But perhaps I had better stop,
for fear you may get tired of the theme. I must tell you a little about his old age, then I
will leave off.

He was one of the happiest old men I ever knew. He was always cheerful. One could never meet
him in the street, and look into his pleasant face, without catching something of his cheerfulness.
Bad humor is catching, you know, as much as the small pox, or the canker rash, and so is good
humor, too. At all events, I remember that once, when I felt ever so much "out of sorts," because
things did not go right, I came across Uncle Mike, on my way to school, and a chat of about
half a minute completely sweetened my temper.

