The fact that a decline in human fertility and a falling birth rate are most noticeable in
the relatively prosperous countries is a proof that it does not proceed from economic causes;
but is due rather to the spread of the doctrine that it is permissible to restrict or control
birth. In such countries as the United States, England and Australasia, where the standards
of human comfort and living are notoriously high, the decline in the birth rate has been most
noticeable. On the other hand, we find perhaps the greatest decline in the birth rate in France,
a country where the general well-being probably reaches a lower depth in the community than
in any other part of Europe. A comparison of the birth rates of France and of Ireland, for
example, offer a valuable illustration of the point under consideration. In France, more than
half the women who have reached the age of nubility are married; in Ireland, generally speaking,
less than a third. In both countries the crude birth rate is far below that in other European
lands. Yet the fertility of the Irish wife exceeded that of her French compeer by 44 per cent
in 1880, and by no less than 84 per cent in 1900. And since that time the prolificity of the
Irish mother has so increased that she is now, approximately speaking, inferior only to the
Dutch or Finnish mother in this respect.

In general, in any country where we find a diminished prolificity a falling off of childbirth
unaccompanied by a decrease in the number of marriages occurring at the reproductive ages,
we may attribute this decrease to voluntary restriction of childbearing on the part of the
married, or in other words, to the prevalence of "birth control." This incidentally, is not
a theoretical statement, but one supported by the almost unanimous medical opinion in all countries.
Everywhere and especially here in our own United States, we find evidence of the extensive
employ of "birth control" measures to prevent that normal development of family life which
underlies the vigor and racial power of every nation. These preventive measures which arbitrarily
control human birth had long been in use in France with results which, especially since the
war, have been frequently and publicly deplored in the press, and have led the French Government
to offer substantial rewards to encourage the propagation of large families. From France the
preventive practices of "birth control" had spread, after 1870, over nearly all the countries
of western Europe, to England and to the United States; though they are not as much apparent
in those countries where the Roman Church has a strong hold on the people.

As a general thing, the practice of thus unnaturally limiting families--"unnaturally" since
the custom of "birth control" derives from no natural, physical law--prevails, in the first
instance, among the well-to-do, who should rather be the first to set the example of protest
against it by having the families they are so much better able to support and educate than
those less favored with the world's goods. If the evil of voluntary control of human birth
were restricted to a privileged class, say one of wealth, the harm done would, perhaps, not
be so great. But, unfortunately, in the course of time it filters down as a "gospel of comfort"--erroneous
term!--to those whose resources are less. They accept and practice this invidious system of
prevention and gradually the entire community is more or less affected.

The whole system of "birth control" is opposed to natural, human and religious law. Nature,
in none of her manifestations, introduces anything which may tend to prevent her great reason
for being--the propagation of the species. Birth as the natural sequence of mating is her solemn
and invariable law. It is in birth and rebirth that nature renews herself and all the life
of the animal and vegetable world, and her primal aim is to encourage it. Human law recognizes
this underlying law of nature by forbidding man to tamper in a preventive way with her hallowed
and mysterious processes for perpetuating the human race. Religious law, based on the divine
dispensation of the Scriptures, indorses the law of nature and that of the state.

We may take it, then, that "birth control" represents a deliberate and reprehensible attempt
to nullify those innate laws of reproduction sanctioned by religion, tradition and man's own
ingrained instinct. To say that the human instinct for the perpetuation of his race and family
has become atrophied during the flight of time, and that he is therefore justified in denying
it, is merely begging the question. The instinct may be denied, just as other higher and nobler
instincts are disregarded; but its validity cannot be questioned. Whether those who practice
"birth control" are influenced by economic, selfishly personal or other reasons, they are offending
in a threefold manner: against the inborn wish and desire which is a priceless possession of
even the least of God's creatures, that of living anew in its offspring; against the law of
the state, which after all, stands for the crystallization of the best feeling of the community;
and against the divine injunction handed down to us in Holy Writ, to "increase and multiply."

"Birth control" is the foe to the direct end and aim of marriage, which, in the last analysis,
is childbirth. As an enemy to the procreation of children it is an enemy of the family and
the family group. As an enemy of the family, it is an enemy of the state, the community, a
foe to the whole social system. Mankind has been able to attain its comparatively recent state
of moral and physical advancement without having recourse to the dangerous principle which
"birth control" represents. Surely that wise provision of our existing legal code which makes
the printing or dissemination of information regarding the physical facts of "birth control"
illegal and punishable as an offense, can only be approved by those who respect the Omnipotent
will, and the time-hallowed traditions which date back to the very inception of the race.

                              CHAPTER IX

                             SEX DISEASES

The sex diseases are the same in both sexes, whether developed by direct or accidental infection.
They are the greatest practical argument in favor of continence, morality and marriage in the
sex relation.

                               GONORRHEA

Gonorrhea is a pus-discharging inflammation of the canal known as the urethra, which passing
through the entire length of the organ, carries both the urine and the seminal fluid. It is
caused by a venereal bacillus, the gonococcus. Under favorable conditions and with right treatment,
gonorrhea may be cured, though violently painful, in fourteen days. Often the inflammation
extends, becomes chronic and attacks other organs. This chronic gonorrhea often causes permanent
contraction of the urethra, which leads to the painful retention of urine, catarrh of the bladder,
and stone. Chronic gonorrhea, too, often ends in death, especially if the kidneys are attacked.
A cured case of gonorrhea does not mean immunity from further attacks. New infections are all
the more easily acquired. Gonorrhea has even more dangerous consequences in women than in men.
The gonococcus bacilli infect all the inner female genital organs. They cause frequent inflammations
and lead to growths in the belly. Women thus attacked usually are apt to be sterile; they suffer
agonies, and often become chronic invalids. The child born of a gonorrheal mother, while passing
through the infected genital organs, comes to life with infected eyelids. This is Blennorrhea,
which may result in total blindness. Gonorrhea also causes inflammation of the joints, gonorrheal
rheumatism, testicular inflammations which may lead to sterility. Some authorities claim that
fully half the sterility in women is caused by gonorrheal infection of the Fallopian tubes.
Gonorrheal infection of the eyes at birth is now prevented by first washing them in a saturated
solution of boric acid, then treating them with a drop of weak silver solution.

                               SYPHILIS

Syphilis is a still more terrible venereal disease. It usually appears first in small, hard
sores, hard chancres, on the sexual parts or the mouth. Then the syphilitic poison spreads
throughout the whole body by means of the blood. After a few weeks it breaks out on the face
or body. Its final cure is always questionable. Syphilis may lie dormant for years, and then
suddenly become active again. It breaks out in sores on all parts of the body, often eats up
the bone, destroys internal organs, such as the liver, causes hardening of the lungs, diseases
of the blood vessels and eye diseases. Ulcers of the brain and nerve paralysis often result
from it. One of its most terrible consequences is consumption of the spinal marrow and paralysis
of the brain, or paresis. The first slowly hardens and destroys the spinal marrow, the second
the brain. These diseases are only developed by previous syphilitics. As a rule they occur
from 5 to 20 years after infection, usually 10 or 15 years after it. And they usually happen
to persons who believed themselves completely cured. Consumption of the spinal marrow leads
to death in the course of a few years of continual torture. Paralysis of the brain turns the
sufferer into a human ruin, gradually extinguishing all mental and nervous functions, sentience,
movement, speech and intellect.

One danger of syphilis is the fact that its true nature may be overlooked during the first
period, because of the lack of pronounced symptoms. Its early sores may easily be mistaken
for some skin affection. Mercury and other means are successful in doing away with at least
the more noticeable signs of syphilis during the first and secondary stages. The modern medical
treatment using mercury and Salvarsan (606) in alternation, has been very successful. It is
claimed that by following it, syphilis may be totally cured if taken in hand during the first
stage. The sores developed during the first two or three years of the disease are very infectious.
In the case of a chronic syphilis of three or four years' standing, the sores as a rule are
no longer infectious. It is possible, however, for a syphilitic of this description to bring
forth syphilitic children, without infecting his wife. Such children either die at birth, or
later, of this congenital syphilis. They may also die of spinal consumption or paresis between
the ages of 10 and 20. The mortality of all syphilitic children is very great. In most cases,
however, healthy children are born of the wedlock of relatively cured syphilitics, though they
are often sterile. Young men who have had recourse to prostitutes, often inoculate their wives
with gonorrhea or syphilis, and thus the plague is spread.

                           THE SOFT CHANCRE

The soft chancre is the third form of venereal disease (the hard chancre being the first stage
of syphilis). It is the least dangerous of the venereal diseases, but unfortunately, relatively
the one which occurs most seldom. When not complicated with syphilis, it appears locally. It
is a larger or smaller sore feeding and growing on the genital organs.

              VENEREAL DISEASE AN ADVOCATE OF CONTINENCE

The most tragic consequence of all venereal disease is the part it plays in the infection of
innocent children, and innocent wives and mothers. Often a pure and chaste woman is thus deprived
in the most cruel and brutal manner of the fruit of all her hopes and dreams of happiness.
Similarly, a young man may find himself hopelessly condemned to a short life of pain and misery.
He may also suffer from the knowledge that he has ruined the lives of those dearest to him.
Venereal disease, syphilis in particular, emphasizes the practical value of continence--quite
aside from its moral one--in a manner which cannot be ignored!

                               CHAPTER X

                             LOVE AND SEX

When we take under consideration the higher, truer love of one sex for the other, that is,
an affection which is not simply a friendship, but has a sex basis, we realize that it may
be a very noble emotion. There is no manner of doubt but that the normal human being feels
a great need for love. Sex in love and its manifestation in the life of the soul is one of
the first conditions of human happiness, and a main aim of human existence.

All know the tale of Cupid's arrow. A man falls in love with a face, a pair of eyes, the sound
of a voice, and his affection is developed from this trifling beginning until it takes complete
possession of him. This love is usually made up of two components: a sex instinct, and feelings
of sympathy and interest which hark back to primal times. And this love, in its true sense,
should stand for an affection purified from egoism.

When, among the lower animal forms we find individuals without a determined sex, egoism develops
free from all restraint. Each individual creature devours as much as it can and feeding, together
with propagation by division, "budding" or conjunction, makes up the total of its vital activities.
It need do no more to accomplish the purpose of its existence. Even when propagation commences
to take place by means of individual male and female parents, the same principle of egoism
largely obtains. The spiders are typical instances of this: in their case the carrying out
of the natural functions of the male spider is attended with much danger for him, owing to
the fact that if he does not exercise the greatest care, he is apt to be devoured immediately
afterward by his female partner, in order that no useful food matter may be lost. Yet even
in the case of the spiders, the female spider already gives proof of a certain capacity for
sacrifice where her young are concerned, at any rate for a short time after they have crept
from the egg.

