” I do not mean to be understood for a moment as intending to imply that ideas of this
nature are shared by the profession; I mention them simply in order to show the necessity on
the part of physicians to disabuse in this respect the minds of those patients whom they may
send for electro-balneological treatment.

In appropriate cases, the use of the bath should not be too long deferred. I have had frequent
occasion to become cognizant of the fact, that cases have been sent by physicians to take the
baths only after prolonged ineffectual treatment of another nature had been gone through with,
and where negative or at best tardy results took the place of the brilliant results that might
have been obtained, had the cases been sent earlier. I do not mention this in a fault-finding
spirit; to do so would be unjust. The remedy under consideration has up to the present time
been too little known, the indications for its employment—in the absence of statistics—on too
uncertain a basis, to expect from any but specialists the early realization in any case of
its appropriateness. I trust however that in the future, from being a “dernier ressort,” it
will come to take its proper place among other remedies, to be administered “when it will do
the most good.” When this comes to pass, the results obtained, satisfactory as they are even
now, will become as brilliant and well-authenticated as those of every other remedy from which
experience has taught us how to reap the greatest advantage.

In the following “clinical record” I shall not omit to cite cases where the baths were unsuccessful,
wherever it shall appear to me that the citation of such cases may be of assistance in arriving
at a true estimation of the therapeutic value of the remedy.

In giving the histories of cases, it will scarcely be necessary to enter very minutely into
details; the demands of the present work will be fully met if sufficient is said of a case
to illustrate the effects of the baths in the class of cases that it represents.

Finally, I wish it understood that in a few of the conditions in which I shall advise the employment
of the baths, I have had no personal experience in their use, but base my opinions on what
I know of their effects, together with what is known of the results obtained in analogous conditions
by local electrical methods.

                           SPECIAL DISEASES.

                              RHEUMATISM.

Its great frequency, the pain and discomfort which it occasions, and its many, often dangerous
sequelæ, added to its frequent obstinacy under the most varied treatment, render rheumatism
one of the most formidable diseases that we have to encounter. The long list of remedies that
have from time to time been employed in its treatment, bear witness by their very number to
the little reliance that can be placed in any one of them. A remedy then which can be relied
on to exercise a favorable influence in all the forms of rheumatism—acute, subacute and chronic—as
well as on most of its sequelæ, should of right become a welcome addition to our armamentarium
in the treatment of this disease; and such is the electric bath. The treatment of the sequelæ
I shall speak of under separate heads. The disease itself I will divide into three classes,
viz: a) acute, b) subacute and c) chronic rheumatism.

