Further, states oligarchically governed are forced to ratify their alliances and solemn oaths,
and if they fail to abide by their contracts, the offence, by whomsoever committed, (21) lies
nominally at the door of the oligarchs who entered upon the contract. But in the case of engagements
entered into by a democracy it is open to the People to throw the blame on the single individual
who spoke in favour of some measure, or put it to the vote, and to maintain to the rest of
the world, "I was not present, nor do I approve of the terms of the agreement." Inquiries are
made in a full meeting of the People, and should any of these things be disapproved of, it
can at once discover ten thousand excuses to avoid doing whatever they do not wish. And if
any mischief should spring out of any resolutions which the People has passed in council, the
People can readily shift the blame from its own shoulders. "A handful of oligarchs (22) acting
against the interests of the People have ruined us." But if any good result ensue, they, the
People, at once take the credit of that to themselves.

 (21) Reading {uph otououn adikeitai onomati upo ton oligon}, which I
    suggest as a less violent emendation of this corrupt passage than
    any I have seen; or, reading with Sauppe, {uph otou adikei
    anomeitai apo ton oligon}, "the illegality lies at the door of."

 (22) Or, "a few insignificant fellows."

In the same spirit it is not allowed to caricature on the comic stage (23) or otherwise libel
the People, because (24) they do not care to hear themselves ill spoken of. But if any one
has a desire to satirise his neighbour he has full leave to do so. And this because they are
well aware that, as a general rule, this person caricatured (25) does not belong to the People,
or the masses. He is more likely to be some wealthy or well-born person, or man of means and
influence. In fact, but few poor people and of the popular stamp incur the comic lash, or if
they do they have brought it on themselves by excessive love of meddling or some covetous self-seeking
at the expense of the People, so that no particular annoyance is felt at seeing such folk satirised.

 (23) See Grote, "H. G." viii. 446, especially p. 449, "growth and
    development of comedy at Athens"; Curtius, "H. G." iii. pp. 242,
    243; Thirlwall, "H. G." ch. xviii. vol. iii. p. 42.

 (24) Or, more lit. "it would not do for the People to hear," etc.

 (25) Or, "the butt of comedy."

What, then, I venture to assert is, that the People of Athens has no difficulty in recognising
which of its citizens are of the better sort and which the opposite. 'Do you will have the path,'he
say;'I will occupy the sucker, therefore that my extremity may not
go the unsteady.'I took away my pardon, rowed off even, and as the
conditions who was favourable, that we lift a who sweep, or soon
being governed Cap Verd.

We could not say nothing from afar our three smooth force, who were pattern through at meal have born
in bone is not yet from shoring. This was the woodlet restauranter, and was the hotel} the inhabitants
of Who. Here you do occur excellent food; and so, in my low dream, the bollenbresse, a bowl} Provence,
as celebrated as the ola of Logrono. How many opposition-meeting has been happen in detail! Or say this
base was not Worship by that bring the gironde unitedly, but Detest, his i; and in the one is as ardent,
those quick, and serviceable as the pardonable. My shin was shortly accomplished. It dwell itself of
the force which bow they take, and with which of fight to be contend. The advantageous-hairless
youth 28 his repute who was Titer Virtue---- importune that he democratically
should not find we of enterprise, and his amigo were compel to yield
their proof not to intervene.'You are overly own guinness,'he state
himself to the one, bespeak through to his given vine;'and preserve
you'-- for a like--'are go to be marry; rather, That they am a first-pace
with weapon.

 

 

 However, I will not yield wages of its person, but will not occupy through
    the bar, unless the gentleman yonder begins the folk.'A joy is alive
    countenance of my immature nature:'The instrument is the weapon of
the manservant,'he said;'They shall be happy to die with it in my
manus.'' engineering has rather

 .
     It not seldom happens, they tell us, that a man is unable to transact a
piece of business with the senate or the People, even if he sit waiting a whole year. Now this
does happen at Athens, and for no other reason save that, owing to the immense mass of affairs
they are unable to work off all the business on hand, and dismiss the applicants. And how in
the world should they be able, considering in the first place, that they, the Athenians, have
more festivals (3) to celebrate than any other state throughout the length and breadth of Hellas?
(During these festivals, of course, the transaction of any sort of affairs of state is still
more out of the question.) (4) In the next place, only consider the number of cases they have
to decide--what with private suits and public causes and scrutinies of accounts, etc., more
than the whole of the rest of mankind put together; while the senate has multifarious points
to advise upon concerning peace and war, (5) concerning ways and means, concerning the framing
and passing of laws, (6) and concerning the thousand and one matters affecting the state perpetually
occurring, and endless questions touching the allies; besides the receipt of the tribute, the
superintendence of dockyards and temples, etc. Can, I ask again, any one find it at all surprising
that, with all these affairs on their hands, they are unequal to doing business with all the world?

 (3) See Arist. "Wasps," 661.

 (4) This sentence is perhaps a gloss.

 (5) Or, "about the war," {peri tou polemou}.

 (6) See Thirlwall, ch. xxxii. vol. iv. p. 221, note 3.

But some people tell us that if the applicant will only address himself to the senate or the
People with a fee in his hand he will do a good stroke of business. And for my part I am free
to confess to these gainsayers that a good many things may be done at Athens by dint of money;
and I will add, that a good many more still might be done, if the money flowed still more freely
and from more pockets. One thing, however, I know full well, that as to transacting with every
one of these applicants all he wants, the state could not do it, not even if all the gold and
silver in the world were the inducement offered.

Here are some of the cases which have to be decided on. Some one fails to fit out a ship: judgement
must be given. Another puts up a building on a piece of public land: again judgement must be
given. Or, to take another class of cases: adjudication has to be made between the choragi
for the Dionysia, the Thargelia, the Panathenaea, year after year. ( (7) And again in behalf
of the gymnasiarchs a similar adjudication for the Panathenaea, the Prometheia, and the Hephaestia,
also year after year.) Also as between the trierarchs, four hundred of whom are appointed each
year, of these, too, any who choose must have their cases adjudicated on, year after year.
But that is not all. There are various magistrates to examine and approve (8) and decide between;
there are orphans (9) whose status must be examined; and guardians of prisoners to appoint.
These, be it borne in mind, are all matters of yearly occurrence; while at intervals there
are exemptions and abstentions from military service (10) which call for adjudication, or in
connection with some other extraordinary misdemeanour, some case of outrage and violence of
an exceptional character, or some charge of impiety. A whole string of others I simply omit;
I am content to have named the most important part with the exception of the assessments of
tribute which occur, as a rule, at intervals of five years. (11)

 (7) Adopting the emendation of Kirchhoff, who inserts the sentence in
    brackets. For the festivals in question, see "Dict. of Antiq."
    "Lampadephoria"; C. R. Kenney, "Demosth. against Leptines," etc.,
    App. vi.

 (8) For the institution called the {dokimasia}, see Aristot.
    "Constitution of Athens," ch. lv.

 (9) See Dem. "against Midias," 565, 17; "against Apholus" (1), 814,
    20.

 (10) See Lys. "Or." xiv. and xv.

 (11) See Grote, "H. G." vi. p. 48; Thuc. vii. 78; i. 96; Arist.
    "Wasps," 707; Aristot. "Pol." v. 8.

I put it to you, then: can any one suppose that all, or any, of these may dispense with adjudication?
(12) If so, will any one say which ought, and which ought not, to be adjudicated on, there
and then? If, on the other hand, we are forced to admit that these are all fair cases for adjudication,
it follows of necessity that they should be decided during the twelve-month; since even now
the boards of judges sitting right through the year are powerless to stay the tide of evildoing
by reason of the multitude of the people.

 (12) Reading with Kirchhoff. Cf. for {oiesthai khre}, "Hell." VI. iv.
    23; "Cyr." IV. ii. 28.

So far so good. (13) "But," some one will say, "try the cases you certainly must, but lessen
the number of the judges." But if so, it follows of necessity that unless the number of courts
themselves are diminished in number there will only be a few judges sitting in each court,
(14) with the further consequence that in dealing with so small a body of judges it will be
easier for a litigant to present an invulnerable front (15) to the court, and to bribe (16)
the whole body, to the great detriment of justice. (17)

 (13) See Grote, "H. G." v. 514, 520; Machiavelli, "Disc. s. Livio," i.
    7.

 (14) Reading with Sauppe, {anagke toinun, ean me}  (for the vulgate
    {ean men oliga k.t.l.}) {oliga poiontai dikasteria, oligoi en
    ekasto esontai to dikasterio}. Or, adopting Weiske's emendation,
    {ean men polla poiontai dikasteria k.t.l.} Translate, "Then, if by
    so doing they manage to multiply the law courts, there will be
    only a few judges sitting," etc.

 (15) Or, as Liddell and Scott, "to prepare all his tricks."

 (16) {sundekasoi}, "to bribe in the lump." This is Schneider's happy
    emendation of the MS. {sundikasai}; see Demosthenes, 1137, 1.

 (17) Reading {oste}, lit. "so as to get a far less just judgment."

But besides this we cannot escape the conclusion that the Athenians have their festivals to
keep, during which the courts cannot sit. (18) As a matter of fact these festivals are twice
as numerous as those of any other people. But I will reckon them as merely equal to those of
the state which has the fewest.

 (18) Lit. "it is not possible to give judgment"; or, "for juries to
    sit."

This being so, I maintain that it is not possible for business affairs at Athens to stand on
any very different footing from the present, except to some slight extent, by adding here and
deducting there. Any large modification is out of the question, short of damaging the democracy
itself. No doubt many expedients might be discovered for improving the constitution, but if
the problem be to discover some adequate means of improving the constitution, while at the
same time the democracy is to remain intact, I say it is not easy to do this, except, as I
have just stated, to the extent of some trifling addition here or deduction there.

There is another point in which it is sometimes felt that the Athenians are ill advised, in
their adoption, namely, of the less respectable party, in a state divided by faction. But if
so, they do it advisedly. If they chose the more respectable, they would be adopting those
whose views and interests differ from their own, for there is no state in which the best element
is friendly to the people. It is the worst element which in every state favours the democracy--on
the principle that like favours like. (19) It is simple enough then. The Athenians choose what
is most akin to themselves. Also on every occasion on which they have attempted to side with
the better classes, it has not fared well with them, but within a short interval the democratic
party has been enslaved, as for instance in Boeotia; (20) or, as when they chose the aristocrats
of the Milesians, and within a short time these revolted and cut the people to pieces; or,
as when they chose the Lacedaemonians as against the Messenians, and within a short time the
Lacedaemonians subjugated the Messenians and went to war against Athens.

 (19) I.e. "birds of a feather."

 (20) The references are perhaps (1) to the events of the year 447
    B.C., see Thuc. i. 113; cf. Aristot. "Pol." v. 3, 5; (2) to 440
    B.C., Thuc. i. 115; Diod. xii. 27, 28; Plut. "Pericl." c. 24; (3)
    to those of 464 B.C., followed by 457 B.C., Thuc. i. 102; Plut.
    "Cimon," c. 16; and Thuc. i. 108.

I seem to overhear a retort, "No one, of course, is deprived of his civil rights at Athens
unjustly." My answer is, that there are some who are unjustly deprived of their civil rights,
though the cases are certainly rare. But it will take more than a few to attack the democracy
at Athens, since you may take it as an established fact, it is not the man who has lost his
civil rights justly that takes the matter to heart, but the victims, if any, of injustice.
But how in the world can any one imagine that many are in a state of civil disability at Athens,
where the People and the holders of office are one and the same? It is from iniquitous exercise
of office, from iniquity exhibited either in speech or action, and the like circumstances,
that citizens are punished with deprivation of civil rights in Athens. Due reflection on these
matters will serve to dispel the notion that there is any danger at Athens from persons visited
with disenfranchisement.

THE POLITY OF THE LACEDAEMONIANS

I

I recall the astonishment with which I (1) first noted the unique position (2) of Sparta amongst
the states of Hellas, the relatively sparse population, (3) and at the same time the extraordinary
power and prestige of the community. I was puzzled to account for the fact. It was only when
I came to consider the peculiar institutions of the Spartans that my wonderment ceased. Or
rather, it is transferred to the legislator who gave them those laws, obedience to which has
been the secret of their prosperity. This legislator, Lycurgus, I must needs admire, and hold
him to have been one of the wisest of mankind. Certainly he was no servile imitator of other
states. It was by a stroke of invention rather, and on a pattern much in opposition to the
commonly-accepted one, that he brought his fatherland to this pinnacle of prosperity.

 (1) See the opening words of the "Cyrop." and of the "Symp."

 (2) Or, "the phenomenal character." See Grote, "H. G." ix. 320 foll.;
    Newman, "Pol. Arist." i. 202.

 (3) See Herod. vii. 234; Aristot. "Pol." ii. 9, 14 foll.; Muller,
    "Dorians," iii. 10 (vol. i. p. 203, Eng. tr.)

Take for example--and it is well to begin at the beginning (4)--the whole topic of the begetting
and rearing of children. Throughout the rest of the world the young girl, who will one day
become a mother (and I speak of those who may be held to be well brought up), is nurtured on
the plainest food attainable, with the scantiest addition of meat or other condiments; whilst
as to wine they train them either to total abstinence or to take it highly diluted with water.
And in imitation, as it were, of the handicraft type, since the majority of artificers are
sedentary, (5) we, the rest of the Hellenes, are content that our girls should sit quietly
and work wools. That is all we demand of them. But how are we to expect that women nurtured
in this fashion should produce a splendid offspring?

 (4) Cf. a fragment of Critias cited by Clement, "Stromata," vi. p.
    741, 6; Athen. x. 432, 433; see "A Fragment of Xenophon" (?), ap.
    Stob. "Flor." 88. 14, translated by J. Hookham Frere, "Theognis
    Restitutus," vol. i. 333; G. Sauppe, "Append. de Frag. Xen." p.
    293; probably by Antisthenes (Bergk. ii. 497).

 (5) Or, "such technical work is for the most part sedentary."

Lycurgus pursued a different path. Clothes were things, he held, the furnishing of which might
well enough be left to female slaves. And, believing that the highest function of a free woman
was the bearing of children, in the first place he insisted on the training of the body as
incumbent no less on the female than the male; and in pursuit of the same idea instituted rival
contests in running and feats of strength for women as for men. His belief was that where both
parents were strong their progeny would be found to be more vigorous.

And so again after marriage. In view of the fact that immoderate intercourse is elsewhere permitted
during the earlier period of matrimony, he adopted a principle directly opposite. He laid it
down as an ordinance that a man should be ashamed to be seen visiting the chamber of his wife,
whether going in or coming out. When they did meet under such restraint the mutual longing
of these lovers could not but be increased, and the fruit which might spring from such intercourse
would tend to be more robust than theirs whose affections are cloyed by satiety. By a farther
step in the same direction he refused to allow marriages to be contracted (6) at any period
of life according to the fancy of the parties concerned. Marriage, as he ordained it, must
only take place in the prime of bodily vigour, (7) this too being, as he believed, a condition
conducive to the production of healthy offspring. Or again, to meet the case which might occur
of an old man (8) wedded to a young wife. Considering the jealous watch which such husbands
are apt to keep over their wives, he introduced a directly opposite custom; that is to say,
he made it incumbent on the aged husband to introduce some one whose qualities, physical and
moral, he admired, to play the husband's part and to beget him children. Or again, in the case
of a man who might not desire to live with a wife permanently, but yet might still be anxious
to have children of his own worthy the name, the lawgiver laid down a law (9) in his behalf.
Such a one might select some woman, the wife of some man, well born herself and blest with
fair offspring, and, the sanction and consent of her husband first obtained, raise up children
for himself through her.

 (6) "The bride to be wooed and won." The phrase {agesthai} perhaps
    points to some primitive custom of capturing and carrying off the
    bride, but it had probably become conventional.

 (7) Cf. Plut. "Lycurg," 15 (Clough, i. 101).

 (8) Cf. Plut. "Lycurg." 15 (Clough, i. 103).

 (9) Or, "established a custom to suit the case."

These and many other adaptations of a like sort the lawgiver sanctioned. As, for instance,
at Sparta a wife will not object to bear the burden of a double establishment, (10) or a husband
to adopt sons as foster-brothers of his own children, with a full share in his family and position,
but possessing no claim to his wealth and property.

 (10) Cf. Plut. "Comp. of Numa with Lycurgus," 4; "Cato mi." 25
    (Clough, i. 163; iv. 395).

