Then the old warrior turned toward us, and looked us over again, and I thought he seemed kindly,
and, from his way, another chief of some rank.

"I suppose this is your son?" he said to Elfric directly.

"My young cousin," answered the thane. "Let him go, I pray you; for he is far from his own
folk, and he was in my charge. You may bid him ride home without a word to any man if you will,
and he will keep the trust."

The warrior shook his head, but smiled.

"No, I cannot do that. However, I suppose Thorleif will let you go by and by. If our having
you here saves trouble, you may be thankful. We are not here to fight if we can help it."

"Why, then," said Elfric, "unbind us, and we will bide here quietly. You may take the word
of a thane."

"I have always heard that the word of a Saxon is to be relied on," said the old warrior, and
gave an order to the guard.

Whereon they freed us, and glad I was to stretch my limbs again, while my spirits rose somewhat.

The old chief talked with us for a while after that, and made no secret of whence the ships
had come. It seemed that they were indeed from Wales, had touched on the south coast of Ireland,
and thence had rounded the Land's End, and, growing short of food, had put in here. Also, he
told us that they had been "collecting property," and were on the way home to Denmark. He thought
they were the first ships of the Danes to cruise in these waters, and was proud of it.

"It is a wondrously fair land of yours here," he said, looking inland on the rolling downs
and forest-hidden valleys.

"Fairer than your own?" I asked.

"Surely; else why should we care to leave our homes?"

"Ho, Thrond!" shouted some man from the wharves, "here are cattle coming in."

The old warrior turned and left us, going ashore. Round the turning of the street inland, whence
we came, some of the mounted men were driving our red cattle from the nearer meadows, and doing
it well as any drover who ever waited for hire at a fair. I saw that they had great heavy-headed
dogs, tall and smooth haired, which worked well enough, though not so well as our rough gray
shepherd dogs. The ship we were in lay alongside the wooden wharf; and one could watch all
that went on, for the fore deck was high above the busy crowd ashore.

I wondered for a few minutes what the Danes would do with the cattle; but they had no doubt
at all. Before old Thrond had reached them the work of slaughter had begun, and wonderfully
fast the men were carrying the meat on board the ships, heaping it in piles forward, and throwing
the hides over the heaps. I heard one of the guards say to another that this was a good "strand
hewing," that being their name for this hasty victualling of the ships.

More cattle came in presently, and sheep also, to be served in the same way. There were a hundred
and fifty men or so on each ship, and I think that this was the first landing they had made
since they left Ireland, so that they were in need of plenty of stores.

Then all in the midst of the bustle came the wild note of a war horn from somewhere inland
beyond the town, and in a moment every man stood still where he happened to be, and listened.
Twice again the note sounded, and a horseman came clattering down to the shore. He was Thorleif,
the chief with whom we had spoken, and he reined up the horse and lifted his hand, with a short,
sharp order of some kind.

At that every man dropped what he was carrying, and the men who were stowing the plunder on
board the ships left their work and hurried ashore, gripping their weapons from where they
had set them against the gunwales. There was a moment's wild hurrying on the wharves, and then
the warriors were drawn up in three lines along the wharf, across the berths where they had
laid the ships, and facing the landward road. Only the ship guard never stirred.

"If only we could get our men to form up like these!" said Elfric. "See, every man knows his
place, and keeps it. They are silent also. Mind you the way of our levies?"

I did well enough. Never had I seen aught like this. For our folk, called up from plough and
forest hastily--and now and then only--have never been taught the long lesson of order and
readiness that these men had learned of necessity in the yearly battle with wind and wave in
their ships. Nor had they ever to face a foe any better ordered than themselves.

"Is the sheriff at hand?" I said breathlessly.

"Maybe. I hope not closely."

Down the street galloped a few more Danes, looking behind them as they rode. They spoke to
Thorleif, and he laughed, and then turned their horses loose and leaped to their places in
the ranks. Thorleif dismounted also, and paced to and fro, as a waiting seaman will, with his
arms behind him.

And then came a rush of horsemen, and my cousin gripped my arm, and cried out in a choked voice:

"Mercy!" he gasped, "is the man mad?"

The new horsemen were men of our own from Dorchester. I saw one or two of Elfric's housecarls
among them, and the rest were the sheriff's own men, with a few franklins who had joined him
on the road.

At the head of the group rode Beaduheard himself, red and hot with his ride, and plainly in
a rage. His rough brown beard bristled fiercely, and his hand griped the bridle so that the
knuckles were white. He had armed himself, and his men were armed also, but their gear showed
poorly beside the Danish harness. He had hardly more than twenty men after him, and I thought
he had outridden his followers who were on foot.

"O fool!" groaned Elfric. "What is the use of this?"

But we could do nothing, and watched in anxiety to see what Beaduheard had in his mind. It
was impossible that he could have ridden in here with no warning of the real danger, as we
had ridden two hours ago, before things had gone so far. Every townsman had fled long since,
and would be making for Dorchester. He must have met them.

Now he halted in front of that terrible silent line, while his men seemed to shrink somewhat
as they, too, pulled up. Then he faced Thorleif as boldly as if he had the army of Wessex behind
him, and spoke his mind.

"What is the meaning of this?" he shouted in his great voice. "We can have no breaking of the
king's peace here, let me tell you. Set down those arms, and do your errand here as peaceful
merchants, whereto will be no hindrance. But concerning the lifting of cattle which has gone
on, I must have your leaders brought to Dorchester, there to answer for the same."

There was a moment's silence, and then the Danes broke into a great roar of laughter. Even
Thorleif's grim face had a smile on it, and he set his hand to his mouth, and stroked his long
moustache as if hiding it, while he looked wonderingly at the angry man before him. But beside
me Elfric stamped his foot with impatience, and muttered curses on the foolhardiness of the
sheriff, which, indeed, I suppose no one understands to this day.

Some say that he took them for merchants, run wild indeed, but to be brought to soberness by
authority. Others think that finding himself, as it were, in a wolf's mouth, he was minded
to carry it off with a high hand, seeing no other way out of the danger. But most think that
he had such belief in his own power that he did indeed look to see these men bow to it, and
lay down their arms then and there. But none will ever know, by reason of what was to come.

"Throw down your arms!" he commanded again, when the laughter ceased.

His voice shook with rage.

"Stay!" said Thorleif. "What is your authority?"

The question was put very courteously, if coldly, and it was common sense.

"I am the sheriff of Dorchester. Whence are you that you should defy the king's officer?"

"Pardon," said Thorleif. "It is only at this moment that we have learned that we have so great
a man before us. As for your question, we are hungry Danes who are looking for victuals. It
is our custom to go armed in a strange land, that we may protect our ships at the least."

"Trouble not for your ships, for none will harm them," Beaduheard said, seeming to be somewhat
pacified by the quiet way of the chief. "Set down your arms, and render up yourself and the
other ship captains, and the theft of the cattle and damage here shall be compounded for at
Dorchester."

Then Thorleif turned to his men and said:

"You hear what the sheriff says; what is the answer?"

That came in a crash and rattle of weapons on round shields that rang over the bay, and sent
the staring cattle headlong from where they had been left at the wharf end, tail in air, down
the beach. There was no doubting what that meant, and Beaduheard, brave man as he was, if foolish,
recoiled. His men were already edging out of the wide space toward the homeward track, and
he glanced at them and saw it.

At that he seemed to form some sudden resolve; and calling to them, he rode straight at Thorleif
and griped him by the collar of his mail shirt, crying that he arrested him in the name of
Bertric the king. Thorleif never struggled, but twisted himself round strongly, and hauled
the sheriff off his horse in a moment, and the two rolled over and over on the ground, wrestling
fiercely. Three or four of Beaduheard's men rode up to their master's help in haste, caring
naught that a dozen of the Danes had sprung forward. There was a wild shouting and stamping,
and the horses went down as the axes of the Danes flashed. Two more of the sheriff's men joined
in, and I saw the Danes hew off the points of their levelled spears. Then into the huddled
party of our men who were watching the fight--still doubting whether they should join in or
fly--rode a dozen Danes from out of the country, axe and sword in hand, driving them back on
the main line of the vikings, and then the fight seemed to end as suddenly as it began. Two
or three horses went riderless homeward, and that was how Dorchester learned that Beaduheard
the sheriff had met his end.

The Danes fell back into their places, one or two with wounds on them; and Thorleif rose up
from the ground, shaking his armour into place, and looking round him on those who lay there.
They were all Saxons. Not one had escaped.

"Pick up the sheriff," he said to some of his men. "I never saw a braver fool. Maybe he is
not hurt."

But, however he died, Beaduheard never moved again. Some of the Danes said that a horse must
have kicked him; Thorleif had never drawn weapon.

"Pity," said Thorleif. "He was somewhat of a Berserk; but he brought it on himself."

Which was true enough, and we knew it. Neither Elfric nor I had a word to say to each other.
The whole fight had sprung up and was over almost before we knew what was happening.

Then the Danes mounted the horses of the men who had fallen, caught the others they had turned
loose on the alarm, and were off on their errands without delay. The ranks fell out, and went
back to their work as if nothing had happened, and the wharf buzzed with peaceful-seeming noise
again.

That is how the first Danes came to Wessex. Men say that these three ships were the first Danish
vessels that came to all England; and so it may be, as far as coming on viking raids is concerned.
Wales knew them, and Ireland, and now our turn had come.

CHAPTER II. HOW WILFRID KEPT A PROMISE, AND SWAM IN PORTLAND RACE.

