We had the United States Consul on board--the Odessa Consul.  We assembled in the cabin and
commanded him to tell us what we must do to be saved, and tell us quickly.  He made a speech.
The first thing he said fell like a blight on every hopeful spirit: he had never seen a court
reception.  (Three groans for the Consul.)  But he said he had seen receptions at the Governor
General's in Odessa, and had often listened to people's experiences of receptions at the Russian
and other courts, and believed he knew very well what sort of ordeal we were about to essay.
(Hope budded again.)  He said we were many; the summer palace was small --a mere mansion; doubtless
we should be received in summer fashion--in the garden; we would stand in a row, all the gentlemen
in swallow-tail coats, white kids, and white neck-ties, and the ladies in light-colored silks,
or something of that kind; at the proper moment--12 meridian--the Emperor, attended by his
suite arrayed in splendid uniforms, would appear and walk slowly along the line, bowing to
some, and saying two or three words to others.  At the moment his Majesty appeared, a universal,
delighted, enthusiastic smile ought to break out like a rash among the passengers--a smile
of love, of gratification, of admiration--and with one accord, the party must begin to bow--not
obsequiously, but respectfully, and with dignity; at the end of fifteen minutes the Emperor
would go in the house, and we could run along home again.  We felt immensely relieved.  It
seemed, in a manner, easy.  There was not a man in the party but believed that with a little
practice he could stand in a row, especially if there were others along; there was not a man
but believed he could bow without tripping on his coat tail and breaking his neck; in a word,
we came to believe we were equal to any item in the performance except that complicated smile.
The Consul also said we ought to draft a little address to the Emperor, and present it to one
of his aides-de-camp, who would forward it to him at the proper time. Therefore, five gentlemen
were appointed to prepare the document, and the fifty others went sadly smiling about the ship--practicing.
During the next twelve hours we had the general appearance, somehow, of being at a funeral,
where every body was sorry the death had occurred, but glad it was over--where every body was
smiling, and yet broken-hearted.

A committee went ashore to wait on his Excellency the Governor-General, and learn our fate.
At the end of three hours of boding suspense, they came back and said the Emperor would receive
us at noon the next day --would send carriages for us--would hear the address in person.  The
Grand Duke Michael had sent to invite us to his palace also.  Any man could see that there
was an intention here to show that Russia's friendship for America was so genuine as to render
even her private citizens objects worthy of kindly attentions.

At the appointed hour we drove out three miles, and assembled in the handsome garden in front
of the Emperor's palace.

We formed a circle under the trees before the door, for there was no one room in the house
able to accommodate our three-score persons comfortably, and in a few minutes the imperial
family came out bowing and smiling, and stood in our midst.  A number of great dignitaries
of the Empire, in undress unit forms, came with them.  With every bow, his Majesty said a word
of welcome.  I copy these speeches.  There is character in them--Russian character--which is
politeness itself, and the genuine article.  The French are polite, but it is often mere ceremonious
politeness.  A Russian imbues his polite things with a heartiness, both of phrase and expression,
that compels belief in their sincerity.  As I was saying, the Czar punctuated his speeches
with bows:

"Good morning--I am glad to see you--I am gratified--I am delighted--I am happy to receive you!"

All took off their hats, and the Consul inflicted the address on him.  He bore it with unflinching
fortitude; then took the rusty-looking document and handed it to some great officer or other,
to be filed away among the archives of Russia--in the stove.  He thanked us for the address,
and said he was very much pleased to see us, especially as such friendly relations existed
between Russia and the United States.  The Empress said the Americans were favorites in Russia,
and she hoped the Russians were similarly regarded in America.  These were all the speeches
that were made, and I recommend them to parties who present policemen with gold watches, as
models of brevity and point.  After this the Empress went and talked sociably (for an Empress)
with various ladies around the circle; several gentlemen entered into a disjointed general
conversation with the Emperor; the Dukes and Princes, Admirals and Maids of Honor dropped into
free-and-easy chat with first one and then another of our party, and whoever chose stepped
forward and spoke with the modest little Grand Duchess Marie, the Czar's daughter.  She is
fourteen years old, light-haired, blue-eyed, unassuming and pretty.  Every body talks English.

The Emperor wore a cap, frock coat and pantaloons, all of some kind of plain white drilling--cotton
or linen and sported no jewelry or any insignia whatever of rank.  No costume could be less
ostentatious.  He is very tall and spare, and a determined-looking man, though a very pleasant-looking
one nevertheless.  It is easy to see that he is kind and affectionate There is something very
noble in his expression when his cap is off.  There is none of that cunning in his eye that
all of us noticed in Louis Napoleon's.

The Empress and the little Grand Duchess wore simple suits of foulard (or foulard silk, I don't
know which is proper,) with a small blue spot in it; the dresses were trimmed with blue; both
ladies wore broad blue sashes about their waists; linen collars and clerical ties of muslin;
low-crowned straw-hats trimmed with blue velvet; parasols and flesh-colored gloves.  The Grand
Duchess had no heels on her shoes.  I do not know this of my own knowledge, but one of our
ladies told me so. I was not looking at her shoes.  I was glad to observe that she wore her
own hair, plaited in thick braids against the back of her head, instead of the uncomely thing
they call a waterfall, which is about as much like a waterfall as a canvas-covered ham is like
a cataract.  Taking the kind expression that is in the Emperor's face and the gentleness that
is in his young daughter's into consideration, I wondered if it would not tax the Czar's firmness
to the utmost to condemn a supplicating wretch to misery in the wastes of Siberia if she pleaded
for him.  Every time their eyes met, I saw more and more what a tremendous power that weak,
diffident school-girl could wield if she chose to do it.  Many and many a time she might rule
the Autocrat of Russia, whose lightest word is law to seventy millions of human beings!  She
was only a girl, and she looked like a thousand others I have seen, but never a girl provoked
such a novel and peculiar interest in me before.  A strange, new sensation is a rare thing
in this hum-drum life, and I had it here. There was nothing stale or worn out about the thoughts
and feelings the situation and the circumstances created.  It seemed strange--stranger than
I can tell--to think that the central figure in the cluster of men and women, chatting here
under the trees like the most ordinary individual in the land, was a man who could open his
lips and ships would fly through the waves, locomotives would speed over the plains, couriers
would hurry from village to village, a hundred telegraphs would flash the word to the four
corners of an Empire that stretches its vast proportions over a seventh part of the habitable
globe, and a countless multitude of men would spring to do his bidding.  I had a sort of vague
desire to examine his hands and see if they were of flesh and blood, like other men's.  Here
was a man who could do this wonderful thing, and yet if I chose I could knock him down.  The
case was plain, but it seemed preposterous, nevertheless--as preposterous as trying to knock
down a mountain or wipe out a continent.  If this man sprained his ankle, a million miles of
telegraph would carry the news over mountains --valleys--uninhabited deserts--under the trackless
sea--and ten thousand newspapers would prate of it; if he were grievously ill, all the nations
would know it before the sun rose again; if he dropped lifeless where he stood, his fall might
shake the thrones of half a world!  If I could have stolen his coat, I would have done it.
When I meet a man like that, I want something to remember him by.

As a general thing, we have been shown through palaces by some plush-legged filagreed flunkey
or other, who charged a franc for it; but after talking with the company half an hour, the
Emperor of Russia and his family conducted us all through their mansion themselves.  They made
no charge.  They seemed to take a real pleasure in it.

We spent half an hour idling through the palace, admiring the cosy apartments and the rich
but eminently home-like appointments of the place, and then the Imperial family bade our party
a kind good-bye, and proceeded to count the spoons.

An invitation was extended to us to visit the palace of the eldest son, the Crown Prince of
Russia, which was near at hand.  The young man was absent, but the Dukes and Countesses and
Princes went over the premises with us as leisurely as was the case at the Emperor's, and conversation
continued as lively as ever.

It was a little after one o'clock, now.  We drove to the Grand Duke Michael's, a mile away,
in response to his invitation, previously given.

We arrived in twenty minutes from the Emperor's.  It is a lovely place. The beautiful palace
nestles among the grand old groves of the park, the park sits in the lap of the picturesque
crags and hills, and both look out upon the breezy ocean.  In the park are rustic seats, here
and there, in secluded nooks that are dark with shade; there are rivulets of crystal water;
there are lakelets, with inviting, grassy banks; there are glimpses of sparkling cascades through
openings in the wilderness of foliage; there are streams of clear water gushing from mimic
knots on the trunks of forest trees; there are miniature marble temples perched upon gray old
crags; there are airy lookouts whence one may gaze upon a broad expanse of landscape and ocean.
The palace is modeled after the choicest forms of Grecian architecture, and its wide colonnades
surround a central court that is banked with rare flowers that fill the place with their fragrance,
and in their midst springs a fountain that cools the summer air, and may possibly breed mosquitoes,
but I do not think it does.

The Grand Duke and his Duchess came out, and the presentation ceremonies were as simple as
they had been at the Emperor's.  In a few minutes, conversation was under way, as before. 
The Empress appeared in the verandah, and the little Grand Duchess came out into the crowd.
They had beaten us there.  In a few minutes, the Emperor came himself on horseback.  It was
very pleasant.  You can appreciate it if you have ever visited royalty and felt occasionally
that possibly you might be wearing out your welcome--though as a general thing, I believe,
royalty is not scrupulous about discharging you when it is done with you.

The Grand Duke is the third brother of the Emperor, is about thirty-seven years old, perhaps,
and is the princeliest figure in Russia.  He is even taller than the Czar, as straight as an
Indian, and bears himself like one of those gorgeous knights we read about in romances of the
Crusades. He looks like a great-hearted fellow who would pitch an enemy into the river in a
moment, and then jump in and risk his life fishing him out again.  The stories they tell of
him show him to be of a brave and generous nature.  He must have been desirous of proving that
Americans were welcome guests in the imperial palaces of Russia, because he rode all the way
to Yalta and escorted our procession to the Emperor's himself, and kept his aids scurrying
about, clearing the road and offering assistance wherever it could be needed.  We were rather
familiar with him then, because we did not know who he was.  We recognized him now, and appreciated
the friendly spirit that prompted him to do us a favor that any other Grand Duke in the world
would have doubtless declined to do.  He had plenty of servitors whom he could have sent, but
he chose to attend to the matter himself.

The Grand Duke was dressed in the handsome and showy uniform of a Cossack officer.  The Grand
Duchess had on a white alpaca robe, with the seams and gores trimmed with black barb lace,
and a little gray hat with a feather of the same color.  She is young, rather pretty modest
and unpretending, and full of winning politeness.

Our party walked all through the house, and then the nobility escorted them all over the grounds,
and finally brought them back to the palace about half-past two o'clock to breakfast.  They
called it breakfast, but we would have called it luncheon.  It consisted of two kinds of wine;
tea, bread, cheese, and cold meats, and was served on the centre-tables in the reception room
and the verandahs--anywhere that was convenient; there was no ceremony.  It was a sort of picnic.
I had heard before that we were to breakfast there, but Blucher said he believed Baker's boy
had suggested it to his Imperial Highness.  I think not--though it would be like him.  Baker's
boy is the famine-breeder of the ship.  He is always hungry.  They say he goes about the state-rooms
when the passengers are out, and eats up all the soap.  And they say he eats oakum.  They say
he will eat any thing he can get between meals, but he prefers oakum.  He does not like oakum
for dinner, but he likes it for a lunch, at odd hours, or any thing that way.  It makes him
very disagreeable, because it makes his breath bad, and keeps his teeth all stuck up with tar.
Baker's boy may have suggested the breakfast, but I hope he did not.  It went off well, anyhow.
The illustrious host moved about from place to place, and helped to destroy the provisions
and keep the conversation lively, and the Grand Duchess talked with the verandah parties and
such as had satisfied their appetites and straggled out from the reception room.

The Grand Duke's tea was delicious.  They give one a lemon to squeeze into it, or iced milk,
if he prefers it.  The former is best.  This tea is brought overland from China.  It injures
the article to transport it by sea.

When it was time to go, we bade our distinguished hosts good-bye, and they retired happy and
contented to their apartments to count their spoons.

We had spent the best part of half a day in the home of royalty, and had been as cheerful and
comfortable all the time as we could have been in the ship.  I would as soon have thought of
being cheerful in Abraham's bosom as in the palace of an Emperor.  I supposed that Emperors
were terrible people.  I thought they never did any thing but wear magnificent crowns and red
velvet dressing-gowns with dabs of wool sewed on them in spots, and sit on thrones and scowl
at the flunkies and the people in the parquette, and order Dukes and Duchesses off to execution.
I find, however, that when one is so fortunate as to get behind the scenes and see them at
home and in the privacy of their firesides, they are strangely like common mortals.  They are
pleasanter to look upon then than they are in their theatrical aspect.  It seems to come as
natural to them to dress and act like other people as it is to put a friend's cedar pencil
in your pocket when you are done using it.  But I can never have any confidence in the tinsel
kings of the theatre after this.  It will be a great loss.  I used to take such a thrilling
pleasure in them.  But, hereafter, I will turn me sadly away and say;

"This does not answer--this isn't the style of king that I am acquainted with."

When they swagger around the stage in jeweled crowns and splendid robes, I shall feel bound
to observe that all the Emperors that ever I was personally acquainted with wore the commonest
sort of clothes, and did not swagger.  And when they come on the stage attended by a vast body-guard
of supes in helmets and tin breastplates, it will be my duty as well as my pleasure to inform
the ignorant that no crowned head of my acquaintance has a soldier any where about his house
or his person.

Possibly it may be thought that our party tarried too long, or did other improper things, but
such was not the case.  The company felt that they were occupying an unusually responsible
position--they were representing the people of America, not the Government--and therefore they
were careful to do their best to perform their high mission with credit.

On the other hand, the Imperial families, no doubt, considered that in entertaining us they
were more especially entertaining the people of America than they could by showering attentions
on a whole platoon of ministers plenipotentiary and therefore they gave to the event its fullest
significance, as an expression of good will and friendly feeling toward the entire country.
We took the kindnesses we received as attentions thus directed, of course, and not to ourselves
as a party. That we felt a personal pride in being received as the representatives of a nation,
we do not deny; that we felt a national pride in the warm cordiality of that reception, can
not be doubted.

Our poet has been rigidly suppressed, from the time we let go the anchor. When it was announced
that we were going to visit the Emperor of Russia, the fountains of his great deep were broken
up, and he rained ineffable bosh for four-and-twenty hours.  Our original anxiety as to what
we were going to do with ourselves, was suddenly transformed into anxiety about what we were
going to do with our poet.  The problem was solved at last. Two alternatives were offered him--he
must either swear a dreadful oath that he would not issue a line of his poetry while he was
in the Czar's dominions, or else remain under guard on board the ship until we were safe at
Constantinople again.  He fought the dilemma long, but yielded at last.  It was a great deliverance.
Perhaps the savage reader would like a specimen of his style.  I do not mean this term to be
offensive.  I only use it because "the gentle reader" has been used so often that any change
from it can not but be refreshing:

          "Save us and sanctify us, and finally, then,
          See good provisions we enjoy while we journey to Jerusalem.
          For so man proposes, which it is most true
          And time will wait for none, nor for us too."

The sea has been unusually rough all day.  However, we have had a lively time of it, anyhow.
We have had quite a run of visitors.  The Governor-General came, and we received him with a
salute of nine guns. He brought his family with him.  I observed that carpets were spread from
the pier-head to his carriage for him to walk on, though I have seen him walk there without
any carpet when he was not on business.  I thought may be he had what the accidental insurance
people might call an extra-hazardous polish ("policy" joke, but not above mediocrity,) on his
boots, and wished to protect them, but I examined and could not see that they were blacked
any better than usual.  It may have been that he had forgotten his carpet, before, but he did
not have it with him, anyhow. He was an exceedingly pleasant old gentleman; we all liked him,
especially Blucher. When he went away, Blucher invited him to come again and fetch his carpet
along.

Prince Dolgorouki and a Grand Admiral or two, whom we had seen yesterday at the reception,
came on board also.  I was a little distant with these parties, at first, because when I have
been visiting Emperors I do not like to be too familiar with people I only know by reputation,
and whose moral characters and standing in society I can not be thoroughly acquainted with.
I judged it best to be a little offish, at first.  I said to myself, Princes and Counts and
Grand Admirals are very well, but they are not Emperors, and one can not be too particular
about who he associates with.

Baron Wrangel came, also.  He used to be Russian Ambassador at Washington.  I told him I had
an uncle who fell down a shaft and broke himself in two, as much as a year before that.  That
was a falsehood, but then I was not going to let any man eclipse me on surprising adventures,
merely for the want of a little invention.  The Baron is a fine man, and is said to stand high
in the Emperor's confidence and esteem.

Baron Ungern-Sternberg, a boisterous, whole-souled old nobleman, came with the rest.  He is
a man of progress and enterprise--a representative man of the age.  He is the Chief Director
of the railway system of Russia--a sort of railroad king.  In his line he is making things
move along in this country He has traveled extensively in America.  He says he has tried convict
labor on his railroads, and with perfect success.  He says the convicts work well, and are
quiet and peaceable.  He observed that he employs nearly ten thousand of them now.

This appeared to be another call on my resources.  I was equal to the emergency.  I said we
had eighty thousand convicts employed on the railways in America--all of them under sentence
of death for murder in the first degree.  That closed him out.

We had General Todtleben (the famous defender of Sebastopol, during the siege,) and many inferior
army and also navy officers, and a number of unofficial Russian ladies and gentlemen.  Naturally,
a champagne luncheon was in order, and was accomplished without loss of life.  Toasts and jokes
were discharged freely, but no speeches were made save one thanking the Emperor and the Grand
Duke, through the Governor-General, for our hospitable reception, and one by the Governor-General
in reply, in which he returned the Emperor's thanks for the speech, etc., etc.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

We returned to Constantinople, and after a day or two spent in exhausting marches about the
city and voyages up the Golden Horn in caiques, we steamed away again.  We passed through the
Sea of Marmora and the Dardanelles, and steered for a new land--a new one to us, at least--Asia.
We had as yet only acquired a bowing acquaintance with it, through pleasure excursions to Scutari
and the regions round about.

We passed between Lemnos and Mytilene, and saw them as we had seen Elba and the Balearic Isles--mere
bulky shapes, with the softening mists of distance upon them--whales in a fog, as it were.
Then we held our course southward, and began to "read up" celebrated Smyrna.

At all hours of the day and night the sailors in the forecastle amused themselves and aggravated
us by burlesquing our visit to royalty.

The third cook, crowned with a resplendent tin basin and wrapped royally in a table-cloth mottled
with grease-spots and coffee stains, and bearing a sceptre that looked strangely like a belaying-pin,
walked upon a dilapidated carpet and perched himself on the capstan, careless of the flying
spray; his tarred and weather-beaten Chamberlains, Dukes and Lord High Admirals surrounded
him, arrayed in all the pomp that spare tarpaulins and remnants of old sails could furnish.
Then the visiting "watch below," transformed into graceless ladies and uncouth pilgrims, by
rude travesties upon waterfalls, hoopskirts, white kid gloves and swallow-tail coats, moved
solemnly up the companion way, and bowing low, began a system of complicated and extraordinary
smiling which few monarchs could look upon and live.

The Emperor--"Then what the devil did you come for?"

--"Save the desire of offering our grateful acknowledgments to the lord of a realm which--"

The Emperor--" Oh, d--n the Address!--read it to the police. Chamberlain, take these people
over to my brother, the Grand Duke's, and give them a square meal.  Adieu!  I am happy--I am
gratified--I am delighted--I am bored.  Adieu, adieu--vamos the ranch!  The First Groom of
the Palace will proceed to count the portable articles of value belonging to the premises."

The farce then closed, to be repeated again with every change of the watches, and embellished
with new and still more extravagant inventions of pomp and conversation.

At all times of the day and night the phraseology of that tiresome address fell upon our ears.

As I was a member of the committee, and helped to frame the Address, these sarcasms came home
to me.  I never heard a sailor proclaiming himself as a handful of American citizens traveling
for recreation, but I wished he might trip and fall overboard, and so reduce his handful by
one individual, at least.  I never was so tired of any one phrase as the sailors made me of
the opening sentence of the Address to the Emperor of Russia.

This seaport of Smyrna, our first notable acquaintance in Asia, is a closely packed city of
one hundred and thirty thousand inhabitants, and, like Constantinople, it has no outskirts.
It is as closely packed at its outer edges as it is in the centre, and then the habitations
leave suddenly off and the plain beyond seems houseless.  It is just like any other Oriental
city.  That is to say, its Moslem houses are heavy and dark, and as comfortless as so many
tombs; its streets are crooked, rudely and roughly paved, and as narrow as an ordinary staircase;
the streets uniformly carry a man to any other place than the one he wants to go to, and surprise
him by landing him in the most unexpected localities; business is chiefly carried on in great
covered bazaars, celled like a honeycomb with innumerable shops no larger than a common closet,
and the whole hive cut up into a maze of alleys about wide enough to accommodate a laden camel,
and well calculated to confuse a stranger and eventually lose him; every where there is dirt,
every where there are fleas, every where there are lean, broken-hearted dogs; every alley is
thronged with people; wherever you look, your eye rests upon a wild masquerade of extravagant
costumes; the workshops are all open to the streets, and the workmen visible; all manner of
sounds assail the ear, and over them all rings out the muezzin's cry from some tall minaret,
calling the faithful vagabonds to prayer; and superior to the call to prayer, the noises in
the streets, the interest of the costumes--superior to every thing, and claiming the bulk of
attention first, last, and all the time--is a combination of Mohammedan stenches, to which
the smell of even a Chinese quarter would be as pleasant as the roasting odors of the fatted
calf to the nostrils of the returning Prodigal.  Such is Oriental luxury--such is Oriental
splendor!  We read about it all our days, but we comprehend it not until we see it.  Smyrna
is a very old city.  Its name occurs several times in the Bible, one or two of the disciples
of Christ visited it, and here was located one of the original seven apocalyptic churches spoken
of in Revelations.  These churches were symbolized in the Scriptures as candlesticks, and on
certain conditions there was a sort of implied promise that Smyrna should be endowed with a
"crown of life."  She was to "be faithful unto death"--those were the terms.  She has not kept
up her faith straight along, but the pilgrims that wander hither consider that she has come
near enough to it to save her, and so they point to the fact that Smyrna to-day wears her crown
of life, and is a great city, with a great commerce and full of energy, while the cities wherein
were located the other six churches, and to which no crown of life was promised, have vanished
from the earth.  So Smyrna really still possesses her crown of life, in a business point of
view.  Her career, for eighteen centuries, has been a chequered one, and she has been under
the rule of princes of many creeds, yet there has been no season during all that time, as far
as we know, (and during such seasons as she was inhabited at all,) that she has been without
her little community of Christians "faithful unto death."  Hers was the only church against
which no threats were implied in the Revelations, and the only one which survived.

With Ephesus, forty miles from here, where was located another of the seven churches, the case
was different.  The "candlestick" has been removed from Ephesus.  Her light has been put out.
Pilgrims, always prone to find prophecies in the Bible, and often where none exist, speak cheerfully
and complacently of poor, ruined Ephesus as the victim of prophecy.  And yet there is no sentence
that promises, without due qualification, the destruction of the city.

That is all; the other verses are singularly complimentary to Ephesus. The threat is qualified.
There is no history to show that she did not repent.  But the cruelest habit the modern prophecy-savans
have, is that one of coolly and arbitrarily fitting the prophetic shirt on to the wrong man.
They do it without regard to rhyme or reason.  Both the cases I have just mentioned are instances
in point.  Those "prophecies" are distinctly leveled at the "churches of Ephesus, Smyrna,"
etc., and yet the pilgrims invariably make them refer to the cities instead.  No crown of life
is promised to the town of Smyrna and its commerce, but to the handful of Christians who formed
its "church."  If they were "faithful unto death," they have their crown now--but no amount
of faithfulness and legal shrewdness combined could legitimately drag the city into a participation
in the promises of the prophecy.  The stately language of the Bible refers to a crown of life
whose lustre will reflect the day-beams of the endless ages of eternity, not the butterfly
existence of a city built by men's hands, which must pass to dust with the builders and be
forgotten even in the mere handful of centuries vouchsafed to the solid world itself between
its cradle and its grave.

The fashion of delving out fulfillments of prophecy where that prophecy consists of mere "ifs,"
trenches upon the absurd.  Suppose, a thousand years from now, a malarious swamp builds itself
up in the shallow harbor of Smyrna, or something else kills the town; and suppose, also, that
within that time the swamp that has filled the renowned harbor of Ephesus and rendered her
ancient site deadly and uninhabitable to-day, becomes hard and healthy ground; suppose the
natural consequence ensues, to wit: that Smyrna becomes a melancholy ruin, and Ephesus is rebuilt.
What would the prophecy-savans say?  They would coolly skip over our age of the world, and
say: "Smyrna was not faithful unto death, and so her crown of life was denied her; Ephesus
repented, and lo! her candle-stick was not removed.  Behold these evidences!  How wonderful
is prophecy!"

Smyrna has been utterly destroyed six times.  If her crown of life had been an insurance policy,
she would have had an opportunity to collect on it the first time she fell.  But she holds
it on sufferance and by a complimentary construction of language which does not refer to her.
Six different times, however, I suppose some infatuated prophecy-enthusiast blundered along
and said, to the infinite disgust of Smyrna and the Smyrniotes: "In sooth, here is astounding
fulfillment of prophecy!  Smyrna hath not been faithful unto death, and behold her crown of
life is vanished from her head.  Verily, these things be astonishing!"

Such things have a bad influence.  They provoke worldly men into using light conversation concerning
sacred subjects.  Thick-headed commentators upon the Bible, and stupid preachers and teachers,
work more damage to religion than sensible, cool-brained clergymen can fight away again, toil
as they may.  It is not good judgment to fit a crown of life upon a city which has been destroyed
six times.  That other class of wiseacres who twist prophecy in such a manner as to make it
promise the destruction and desolation of the same city, use judgment just as bad, since the
city is in a very flourishing condition now, unhappily for them.  These things put arguments
into the mouth of infidelity.

