'And no wonder I shivered all the way to the ball.  Fancy Jane insisting on my going to display
my dress to that poor dying Marianne; I was shocked at the notion of carrying my frivolities
into such a scene, but Jane said her mind ran on it, and it was 'anything to take off her thoughts
from that man.'  So I went into her room, and oh! if you could have seen the poor thing, with
her short breath and racking cough, her cheeks burning and her eyes glistening at that flimsy
trumpery.  One bunch of the silver flowers on my skirt was wrong; she spied it, and they would
not thwart her, so she would have the needle, and the skeleton trembling fingers set them right.
They said she would sleep the easier for it, and she thanked me as if it had really set her
more at rest; but how sad, how strange it seems, when she knows that she is sinking fast, and
has had Mr. Danvers with her every day.   He thinks all is well with her; but it was a melancholy,
blank, untaught mind, to begin to work on.  Louis would call her life a mournful picture of
our civilization.  She has told it all to Jane: she was of the mechanic class, just above the
rank that goes to Sunday-schools; she went to a genteel weekly school, and was taken out pleasuring
on Sunday--no ground-work at all.  An orphan at fifteen, she never again knew tenderness. 
Then came dressmaking till her health failed, and she tried service.  She says, Isabel's soft
tones made a paradise for her; but late hours, which she did not feel at the time, wore her
out, and Delaford trifled with her. Always when alone he pretended devotion to her, then flirted
with any other who came in his way, and worry and fretting put the finish to her failing health.
She had no spirit to break entirely with him, and even now is pining for one kind word, which
he seems to be too hard and selfish to send to her, in answer to a letter of forgiveness that
she wrote a fortnight back.  What a wretch he must be!  Jane says, he tried flirting with poor
little Charlotte, and that she was a little 'took up' with his guitar and his verses; but then,
Jane says, 'Charlotte has somewhat at the bottom, and knows better than to heed a man as wasn't
real religious.'  I suppose that is the true difference between Charlotte and Marianne, and
even if we looked into Delaford's history, most likely we should find him another nineteenth-century
victim to an artificial life.  At least, I trust that Jane has been the greatest blessing,
Marianne herself speaks of her as more than a mother to her; and I believe I told you of the
poor girl's overpowering gratitude, when she found we would not turn her out to die homeless.
We read, and we talk, and Mr. Danvers comes; but I believe dear old Jane does more for her
than all.

'Poor Jane! when her task of nursing is over, I do not know what she will turn to.  The grand
servants only keep terms with her because Uncle Oliver gave notice that no one should stay
in the house who did not show respect to his friend Mrs. Beckett.  It takes all her love for
Missus and Master Oliver to make her bear it; and her chief solace is in putting me to bed,
and in airing Master Oliver's shirt and slippers.  You would laugh to hear her compassionating
the home minced-pies! and she tells me she would give fifty pounds rather than bring Charlotte
here.  My uncle wished grandmamma to manage the house, and she did so at first, but she and
the servants did not get on well together; and she said, what I never knew her say before,
that she is too old, and so we have an awful dame who rules with a high hand.

'You ask whether the dear granny is happy.  You know she is all elasticity, and things are
pleasanter here to her than to me, but I do not think she enjoys life as she did at home. 
It is hard to have her whole mission reduced to airing those four horses.  We have tormented
my uncle out of making us use more than two at a time, by begging for six and the Lord Mayor's
coach; but aired alternately they must be, and we must do it, and by no road but what the coachman
chooses; and this does not seem to me to agree with her like trotting about the town on her
errands.  There is no walking here, excepting in the pleasure-ground, where all my grandfather's
landscape-gardening has been cut up so as to be a mere vexation to her.  The people round are
said to be savage and disaffected, and the quarter of a mile between the park and the village
is subject to miners going home.  They did once holloa at me, and orders were issued that I
should walk no more. I believe that if they saw me fearless, and coming among them for friendly
purposes, they would leave off hooting; but the notion frightens granny, so I am a prisoner.
They are the people to think it a mockery to be visited by a lady bedizened as I am, and stuck
up in a carriage; so we can do very little except through Mr. Danvers, and my uncle is always
discontented at the sight of him, and fancies he is always begging. A little sauciness on my
part has the best effect when anything is wanted, for my uncle is very kind to me in his own
fashion, which is not mine.

'We have made something of a nest in the last of the suite of rooms, the only one habitably
small; but it is wonderful where all the time in the day goes.  My uncle likes me to ride with
him in the morning, and I have to help granny air the horses in the afternoon; and in the evening,
when we are lucky enough to dine alone, I play them both asleep, unless they go to backgammon.
Think of granny reduced to that! We should be very happy when he is detained in his study,
but that granny thinks it is bad for him.  Dear granny!

I see the object of her life is to win him back to serious thoughts. She seems to think of
him like a schoolboy who must be lured to find home pleasanter than idle ways; and she begs
me quite sadly to bear with him, and make him happy, to prevent him from longing after his
counting-house at Lima.  She tried to make him promise never to go back, but he has only promised
never to go while she lives, and she seems to think it would be fatal, and to charge all his
disregard of religious matters upon herself for having sent him out.  If you could see her
pleased smile when we extort a subscription, or when she gets him to church; but when those
South American mails come in on Sundays--alas!  Those accounts are his real element, and his
moments of bliss are over the 'Money-market and City intelligence,' or in discussing railway
shares with Sir Andrew.  All the rest is an obstinate and dismal allegiance to the days of
Shrievalty, about as easy to recall as the days when the Pendragons wore golden collars and
armlets.  Imitated hospitality turns into ostentation; and the people who seek after silver
covers and French cookery are no more to my taste than they are, in good earnest, to Uncle
Oliver's.  The nice people, if there are any, won't come in our way, except Mr. Henderson;
and when we do pluck up courage to disgust Mr. Coachman by calling on Mrs. Henderson, we are
very happy.  But she is a wise woman, and will not bring her pretty Fanny into our world; and
when I press her, behold! I remember what I used to think of patronage.

'But Louis has promised to come at Easter, and he will teach me a little more charity, I hope;
and, what is better (no, I don't mean that), will tell me about the dear, dear, trebly dear
Terrace and all the doings.  I hope you will begin your Sunday scheme; but granny fears the
bad set will not care, and the good will prefer having their families together.  It is worse
than I expected even of Mr. Purvis to refuse the afternoon service, when you offered to take
all the trouble off his hands; granny hopes you will take care what you are about with him.
Tell Louis we have a famous letter from Mary to show him if he will bring us all news of every
one, and especially of his godchild. Contrary to custom, you tell us more about her than her
mamma does.

                    'Your most affectionate Sister,
                                       'CLARA.'

Before Easter, Charlotte's poor rival was lying at rest in Cheveleigh churchyard, and Jane's
task of love was at an end.

CHAPTER XI.

AUNT CATHARINE'S HOME.

  The lady sleeps--O may her sleep,
  As it is lasting, so be deep!
  Heaven have her in its sacred keep!
  This bed being changed for one more holy,
  This room for one more melancholy,
  Some tomb, that oft hath flung its black
  And wing-like panels fluttering back,
  Triumphant o'er the fluttering palls
  Of her grand family funerals.
                        E. A. POE.

The summer was nearly over, when, one morning at breakfast, Louis surprised his father by a
sound, half consternation, half amusement, and handed him a note, containing these words:--

'DEAR F.,--There were three of us last night; there are five this morning.  Isabel and the
twins are doing well.  Heaven knows what is to become of us!

        'Yours,
          J. F.'

'What would you have?' said Lord Ormersfield, calmly.  'The poorer people are, the more children
they have!'

He went on with his own letters, while Louis laughed at the enunciation of this inverse ratio;
and then took up the note again, to wonder at the tone of anxiety and distress, so unlike James.
He went to call on Lady Conway, and was better satisfied to find that James had written in
a lively strain to her, as if proud of his little daughters, and resolved not to be pitied.
Of this he was in no danger from his sisters-in-law, who looked upon twin-girls as the only
blessing needed to complete Isabel's felicity, had devised three dozen names for them, and
longed to be invited to Northwold to see them.

Nothing was heard of James for more than a week, and, as London grew hotter, dustier, and drearier
than ever, Fitzjocelyn longed, more than he thought wholesome to confess, after Ormersfield
turf, the deep ravines, and rushing brooks.  The sun shone almost through the blind of the
open window on the large library table, where sat Louis at his own end, writing to his Inglewood
bailiff, and now and then solacing himself by lifting with the feather of his pen one of the
bells of a delicate lily in a glass before him--a new spectacle on the Earl's writing-table;
and so was a strip of vellum, with illuminations rich and rare--Louis's indulgence when he
felt he had earned an hour's leisure.  There was a ring at the door, a step on the stairs,
and before the father and son stood James, his little black bag in his hand, like himself,
all dust, and his face worn, heated, and tired.

'Then you have not heard from Cheveleigh?' he said, in answer to their astonished greetings,
producing a note, which was eagerly read:--

'Dearest Jem,--My uncle says I may write to you, in case you can leave Isabel, that he will
be glad to see you.  I told you that dear grandmamma had a cold, and so we would not let her
come to Isabel; but I little guessed what was coming.  It only seemed a feverish cold, and
Jane and I almost laughed at my uncle for choosing to send for a doctor.  He was not alarmed
at first, but yesterday she was inert and sleepy, and he asked for more advice.  Dr. Hastings
came to-day, and oh! Jem, he calls it a breaking up of the constitution, and does not think
she will rally.  She knows us, but she is almost always drowsy, and very hard to rouse.  If
you can come without hurting Isabel, I know you will.  We want you all the more, because my
uncle will not let me send for Mr. Danvers.  Poor Uncle Oliver is dreadfully troubled.

                           'Your most affectionate CLARA.'

'Transplantation has killed her--I knew it would!' said James, as Louis stood, with the note
in his hand, as if not yet understanding the blow.

'Nay,' said the Earl, 'it is an age at which we could hardly hope she would long be spared.
You could leave Mrs. James Frost with comfort?'

'Yes, Miss Mercy undertakes her--she is doing well--she would not hear of my staying.  I must
go on, the train starts at two,' he added, hastily, looking at the time-piece.

'We will send you,' said Lord Ormersfield.  'Take time to rest.  You look very ill!  You should
have some luncheon.'

'No, thank you!' said James, at first with the instinct of resistance; but yielding and confessing,
'Charlotte went into hysterics, and I had nothing to eat before I came away.'

Louis came forward from the window where he had been standing as in a dream, he laid his hand
on James's shoulder, and said, 'I will go!' His voice was hardly audible, but, clearing it,
and striving to recall his thoughts, he added, 'Father, I can be spared.  The division is not
coming on to-night, or you could get me a pair.'

The Earl looked doubtfully at James.

'Yes, let me go,' said Louis.  'I must see her again.  It has been mother and son between us.'
And, hiding his face in his hands, he hurried out of the room.

'Let him come,' said James.  'If duty and affection claim a right, none have such as he.'

'I hesitate only as to acting unceremoniously by your uncle.'

'This is no moment for ceremony--no time to deprive her of whatever she loves best.'

'Be it so, then.  His own feelings are his best passport, and well has she deserved all that
he can ever feel!  And, James, if she should express any desire to see me, if I can be of any
use in settling matters, or could promote any better understanding with your uncle, I am ready
at a moment's notice.  I would come at once, but that many might be burdensome to your uncle
and sister.'

The two cousins were quickly on their way.  James took a second-class ticket, the first time
he had ever done so in travelling with his cousin.  Fitzjocelyn placed himself beside him without
remark.

James dozed as well as the narrow seat would permit, and only woke to chafe at each halt, and
Louis mused over the associations of those scenes, and last year's triumphant return.  Had
the change of habits truly hastened the decay of her powers? had her son's toil and success
been merely to bring her home to the grave of her fathers, at the expense of so many heartburnings,
separations, and dissensions? At least, he trusted that her last hours might be crowned by
the peacemaker's joy, and that she might see strife and bitterness laid aside between Oliver,
and Henry's only surviving son.

Alas! it was not to be.  The shutters and blinds were closed, and Clara met them at the door,
her pale face and streaming eyes forestalling the tidings.  The frame, hitherto so vigorous
and active, had been spared long or weary decay; and tranquil torpor had mildly conducted the
happy, gentle spirit to full repose.  She had slumbered away without revival or suffering,
as one who did 'rest from her labours,' and her eyes had been closed on the previous night.

Clara wept as she spoke, but she had been alone with her sorrow long enough to face it, and
endure calmly.

Not so her brother.  It was anguish to have come too late, and to have missed the last word
and look; and he strode madly up and down the room, almost raving at the separation and removal
which he declared had killed her.

'Oh, speak to him, Louis!' cried Clara.  'Oh, what shall I do?'

As she spoke, the door was opened, and Mr. Dynevor came in, with a grief-stricken look and
quieter manner, but his entrance instantly silenced all James's demonstrations, and changed
them into a haughty, compressed bitterness, as though he actually looked on him in the light
of his grandmother's destroyer.

'Ah! James,' began his uncle, gently, 'I wish you had been here earlier!'

'I left home by the first train after hearing.  I ought to have heard sooner.'

'I could not suppose you would choose to come here without serious reason,' said Oliver, with
more dignity than usual.  'However, I would willingly forget, and you will remain here for
the present.'

'I must apologize for having thrust myself on you, sir,' said Louis, 'but, indeed, I could
not stay away.  After what she has been to me, ever since I can remember her--' and tears cut
him short.

'Sir, it does you honour!' returned Oliver.  'She was attached to you. I hope you will not
leave us as yet.'

Louis felt as if he could not leave the house where what was mortal of his dear old aunt yet
remained, and he likewise had a perception that he might be a support and assistance to Clara
in keeping the peace between her brother and uncle; so he gratefully accepted the invitation.

Mr. Dynevor presently explained that he intended the funeral to take place at the end of the week.

'I can not be so long from home,' said James, in a quick, low voice.

Clara ran up to her uncle, laid her hand on his arm, and drew him into a window, whence he
presently turned, saying, 'Your sister tells me that you cannot be so long absent in the present
state of your family. If possible, the day shall be hastened.'

James was obliged to say, 'Thank you!' but any concession seemed to affect him like an injury.

Grievous work was it to remain at Cheveleigh, under the constant dread of some unbecoming outbreak
between uncle and nephew. Fortunately, Oliver had too much on his hands to have much time to
spend with the others; but when they were together, there was scarcely a safe subject, not
even the intended names of the twins. James made hasty answer that they had already received
their names, Mercy and Salome.  Louis and Clara both cried out incredulously.

'Yes,' said James.  'We don't like family names.'

'But such as those!'

'I wish nothing better for them than to be such another pair of faithful sisters.  May they
only do as well, poor children!'

The end was softer than the beginning, and there was a tight short sigh, that seemed to burst
upward from a whole world of suppressed anxiety and despondence.

It was not easy to understand him, he would not talk of home, was brief about his little Catharine;
and when Clara said something of Isabel's writings, formerly his great pride, and feared that
she would have no more time for them, his blunt answer was, 'She ought not.'

These comparatively indifferent topics were the only resource; for he treated allusions to
his grandmother as if they were rending open a wound, and it was only in his absence that Louis
and Clara could hold the conversations respecting her, which were their chief comfort and relief.
If they were certain that Oliver was busy, and James writing letters, they would walk up and
down the sheltered alley, where Louis had last year comforted Clara.  The green twilight and
chequered shade well accorded with the state of their minds, darkened, indeed, by one of the
severest losses that could ever befall either of them, and yet it was a sorrow full of thankfulness
and blessed hope.

Louis spoke of his regret that scenes of uncongenial gaiety should have been forced upon her
last year.

'I believe it made very little difference to her,' said Clara.  'She did just what Uncle Oliver
wished, but only as she used to play with us, no more; nay, rather less for her own amusement
than as she would play at battledore, or at thread-paper verses.'

'And she was not teased nor harassed?'

'I think not.  She was grieved if I were set against Uncle Oliver's plans, and really hurt
if she could not make him think as she did about right and wrong, but otherwise she was always
bright.  She never found people tiresome; she could find something kind to say to and for the
silliest; and when my uncle's display was most provoking, she would only laugh at 'poor Oliver's'
odd notions of doing her honour.  I used to be quite ashamed of the fuss I would make when
I thought a thing vulgar; when I saw that sort of vanity by the side of her real indifference,
springing from unworldliness.'

'And then her mornings were quiet?'

'More quiet than at home.  While we were riding, she used to sit with her dear old big Bible,
and the two or three old books she was so fond of.  You remember her Sutton and her Bishop
Home, and often she would show me some passage that had struck her as prettier than ever, well
as she had always known it.  Once she said she was very thankful for the leisure time, free
from household cares, and even from friendly gossip; for she said first she had been gay, then
she had been busy, and had never had time to meditate quietly.'

'So she made a cloister of this grand house.  Ah! I trusted she was past being hurt by external
things.  That grand old age was like a pure glad air where worldly fumes could not mount up.
My only fear would have been this unlucky estrangement making her unhappy.'

'I think I may tell you how she felt it,' said Clara; 'I am trying to tell James, but I don't
know whether I can.  She said she had come to perceive that she had confounded pride with independence.
She blamed herself, so that I could not bear to hear it, for the grand fine things in her life.
She said pride had made her stand alone, and unkindly spurn much that was kindly meant.  I
don't mean that she repented of the actions, but of the motives; she said the glory of being
beholden to no one had run through everything; and had been very hurtful even to Uncle Oliver.
She never let him know all her straits, and was too proud, she said, to ask, when she was hurt
at his not offering help, and so she made him seem more hard-hearted, and let us become set
against him.  She said she had fostered the same temper in poor Jem, who had it strongly enough
by inheritance, and that she had never known the evil, nor understood it as pride, till she
saw the effects.'

'Did they make her unhappy?'

'She cried when she spoke of it, and I have seen her in tears at church, and found her eyes
red when she had been alone, but I don't think it was a hard, cruel sorrow; I think the sunshine
of her nature managed to beam through it.'

'The sunshine was surely love,' said Louis, 'making the rainbow of hope on the tears of repentance.
Perhaps it is a blessing vouchsafed to the true of heart to become aware of such a hidden constitutional
infirmity in time to wash it out with blessed tears like those.'

'Hidden,' said Clara, 'yes, indeed it was, even from herself, because it never showed in manner,
like my pride; she was gracious and affable to all the world.  I heard the weeding-women saying,
'she had not one bit of pride,' and when I told her of it, she shook her head, and laughed
sadly, and said that was the kind of thing which had taken her in.'

'Common parlance is a deceitful thing,' said Louis, sighing; 'people can't even be sincere
without doing harm!  Well, I had looked to see her made happy by harmony between those two!'

'She gave up the hope of seeing it,' said Clara, 'but she looked to it all the same.  She said
meekly one day that it might be her penalty to see them at variance in her own lifetime, but
over her grave perhaps they would be reconciled, and her prayers be answered. How she did love
Uncle Oliver!  Do you know, Louis, what she was to him showed me what the mother's love must
be, which we never missed, because--because we had her!'

'Don't talk of it, Clara,' said Louis, hastily; 'we cannot dwell on ourselves, and bear it
patiently!'

