Now, if it really did so without any regard to the status of the claimant, not only women,
but also foreigners residing in, or holding property in, England, and with these lunatics and
miners with property, and let me, for the sake of a pleasanter collocation of ideas, hastily
add peers of the realm, who have now no control over public finance, ought to receive the parliamentary
franchise. And in like manner if the payment of a tax, without consideration of its amount,
were to give a title to a vote, every one who bought an article which had paid a duty would
be entitled to a vote in his own, or in a foreign, country according as that duty has been
paid at home or abroad.

In reality the moral and logical nexus between the payment of taxes and the control of the
public revenue is that the solvent and selfsupporting citizens, and only these, are entitled
to direct its financial policy.

If I have not received, or if I have refunded, any direct contributions I may have received
from the coffers of the State; if I have paid my pro rata share of its establishment charges--i.e.
of the costs of both internal administration and external defence; and I have further paid
my proportional share of whatever may be required to make up for the deficit incurred on account
of my fellow-men and women who either require direct assistance from the State, or cannot meet
their share of the expenses of the State, I am a solvent citizen; and if I fail to meet these
liabilities, I am an insolvent citizen even though I pay such taxes as the State insists upon
my paying.

Now if a woman insists, in the face of warnings that she had better not do so, on taxing man
with dishonesty for withholding from her financial control over the revenues of the State,
she has only herself to blame if she is told very bluntly that her claim to such control is
barred by the fact that she is, as a citizen insolvent. The taxes paid by women would cover
only a, very small proportion of the establishment charges of the State which would properly
be assigned to them. It falls to man to make up that deficit.

And it is to be noted with respect to those women who pay their full pro rata contribution
and who ask to be treated as a class apart from, and superior to, other women, that only a
very small proportion of these have made their position for themselves.

Immeasurably the larger number are in a solvent position only because men have placed them
there. All large fortunes and practically all the incomes which are furnished by investments
are derived from man.

Nay; but the very revenues which the Woman Suffrage Societies devote to man's vilification
are to a preponderating extent derived from funds which he earned and gave over to woman.

In connexion with the financial position of woman as here stated, it will be well to consider
first the rich woman's claim to the vote.

We may seek light on the logical and moral aspects of this claim by considering here two parallel
cases.

The position which is occupied by the peer under the English Constitution furnishes a very
interesting parallel to the position of the woman who is here in question.

Time out of mind the Commons have viewed with the utmost jealousy any effort of the House of
Lords to obtain co-partnership with them in the control of the finances of the State; and,
in pursuance of that traditional policy, the peers have recently, after appeal to the country,
been shorn of the last vestige of financial control. Now we may perhaps see, in this jealousy
of a House of Lords, which represents inherited wealth, displayed by a House of Commons representing
voters electing on a financial qualification, an unconscious groping after the moral principle
that those citizens who are solvent by their own efforts, and only these, should control the
finances of the State.

And if this analogy finds acceptance, it would not--even if there were nothing else than this
against such proposals--be logically possible, after ousting the peers who are large tax-payers
from all control over the finances of the State, to create a new class of voters out of the
female representatives of unearned wealth.

The second parallel case which we have to consider presents a much simpler analogy. Consideration
will show that the position occupied in the State by the woman who has inherited money is analogous
to that occupied in a firm by a sleeping partner who stands in the shoes of a deceased working
partner, and who has only a small amount of capital in the business. Now, if such a partner
were to claim any financial control, and were to make trouble about paying his pro rata establishment
charges, he would be very sharply called to order. And he would never dream of appealing to
Justice by breaking windows, going to gaol, and undertaking a hunger strike.

Coming back from the particular to the general, and from the logical to the moral aspect of
woman's claim to control the finances of the State on the ground that she is a tax-payer, it
will suffice to point out that this claim is on a par with the claim to increased political
power and completer control over the finances of the State which is put forward by a class
of male voters who are already paying much less than their pro rata share of the upkeep of
the State.

In each case it is a question of trying to get control of other people's money. And in the
case of woman it is of "trying on" in connexion with her public partnership with man that principle
of domestic partnership, "All yours is mine, and all mine's my own."

Next to the plea of justice, the plea which is advanced most insistently by the woman who is
contending for a vote is the plea of liberty.

We have here, again, a word which is a valuable asset to woman suffrage both in the respect
that it brings moral pressure to bear, and in the respect that it is a word of ambiguous meaning.

In accordance with this we have John Stuart Mill making propaganda for woman suffrage in a
tractate entitled the Subjection of Women; we have a Woman's Freedom League--"freedom" being
a question-begging synonym for "parliamentary franchise"--and everywhere in the literature
of woman's suffrage we have talk of woman's "emancipation"; and we have women characterised
as serfs, or slaves--the terms serfs and slaves supplying, of course, effective rhetorical
synonyms for non-voters.

When we have succeeded in getting through these thick husks of untruth we find that the idea
of liberty which floats before the eyes of woman is, not at all a question of freedom from
unequitable legal restraints, but essentially a question of getting more of the personal liberty
(or command of other people's services), which the possession of money confers and more freedom
from sexual restraints.

The suffragist agitator makes profit out of this ambiguity.  In addressing the woman worker
who does not, at the rate which her labour commands on the market, earn enough to give her
any reasonable measure of financial freedom, the agitator will assure her that the suffrage
would bring her more money, describing the woman suffrage cause to her as the cause of liberty.
By juggling in this way with the two meanings of "liberty" she will draw her into her toils.

The vote, however, would not raise wages of the woman worker and bring to her the financial,
nor yet the physiological freedom she is seeking.

The tactics of the suffragist agitator are the same when she is dealing with a woman who is
living at the charges of a husband or relative, and who recoils against the idea that she lies
under a moral obligation to make to the man who works for her support some return of gratitude.
The suffragist agitator will point out to her that such an obligation is slavery, and that
the woman's suffrage cause is the cause of freedom.

And so we find the women who want to have everything for nothing, and the wives who do not
see that they are beholden to man for anything, and those who consider that they have not made
a sufficiently good bargain for themselves--in short, all the ungrateful women--flock to the
banner of Women's Freedom--the banner of financial freedom for woman at the expense of financial
servitude for man.

The grateful woman will practically always be an anti-suffragist.

It will be well, before passing on to another class of arguments, to summarise what has been
said in the three foregoing sections.

We have recognised that woman has not been defrauded of elementary natural rights; that Justice,
as distinguished from egalitarian equity, does not prescribe that she should be admitted to
the suffrage; and that her status is not, as is dishonestly alleged, a status of serfdom or
slavery.

With this the whole case for recrimination against man, and a fortiori [for greater reason]
the case for [a] resort to violence, collapses.

And if it does collapse, this is one of those things that carries consequences. It would beseem
man to bethink himself that to give in to an unjustified and doubtfully honest claim is to
minister to the demoralisation of the claimant.

We pass from the argument from elementary natural rights to a different class of arguments--intellectual
grievances. The suffragist tells us that it is unchivalrous to oppose woman's suffrage; that
it is insulting to tell woman that she is unfit to exercise the fran- chise; that it is "illogical"
to make in her case an exception to a general rule; that it is mere "prejudice" to withhold
the vote from her; that it is indignity that the virtuous and highly intelligent woman has
no vote, while the drunkard has; and that the woman of property has no vote, while her male
underlings have; and, lastly, that it is an affront that a woman should be required to obey
"man-made" laws.

We may take these in their order.

Let us consider chivalry, first, from the standpoint of the woman suffragist. Her notion of
chivalry is that man should accept every disadvantageous offer which may be made to him by woman.

That, of course, is to make chivalry the principle of egalitarian equity limited in its application
to the case between man and woman.

It follows that she who holds that the suffrage ought, in obedience to that principle of justice,
to be granted to her by man, might quite logically hold that everything else in man's gift
ought also to be conceded.

But to do the woman suffragist justice, she does not press the argument from chivalry. Inasmuch
as life has brought home to her that the ordinary man has quite other conceptions of that virtue,
she declares that "she has no use for it."

Let us now turn to the anti-suffragist view. The anti-suffragist (man or woman) holds that
chivalry is a principle which enters into every reputable relation between the sexes, and that
of all the civilising agencies at work in the world it is the most important.

But I think I hear the reader interpose, "What, then, is chivalry if it is not a question of
serving woman without reward?"

A moment's thought will make the matter clear.

When a man makes this compact with a woman, "I will do you reverence, and protect you, and
yield you service; and you, for your part, will hold fast to an ideal of gentleness, of personal
refinement, of modesty, of joyous maternity, and to who shall say what other graces and virtues
that endear woman to man," that is chivalry.

It is not a question of a purely one-sided bargain, as in the suffragist conception. Nor yet
is it a bargain about purely material things.

