With prudence and caution, with a political sense that challenged the admiration of every practical
politician in the state, the Princetonian began to set the stage for the preliminary test.
There was nothing dramatic about these preliminaries. Quickly assuming the offensive, he went
about the task of mobilizing his political forces in the most patient, practical way. No statement
to the people of his purposes to accept the challenge of the Democratic bosses was made by
him. Certain things in the way of accommodation were necessary to be done before this definite
step was taken. It was decided that until the Governor-elect had conferred with the Democratic
bosses in an effort to persuade them that the course they had adopted was wrong, it would be
best not to make an immediate issue by the Governor-elect's announcement. We thought that by
tactfully handling Smith and Davis we would be able by this method of conciliation to convince
their friends, at least those in the party organization, that we were not ruthlessly bent upon
leading a revolt, but that we were attempting peacefully a settlement that would prevent a
split in our party ranks.

We were convinced that in the great body of organization Democrats there were many fine men
who resented this attempt of the bosses to force Jim Smith again on the party and that there
were many who silently wished us success, although they were not free to come to our side in
open espousal. Thus we began patiently to build our back-fire in the ranks of the Democratic
organization itself, to unhorse the Essex boss.

The first thing to carry out the programme was a visit paid to the sick room of the Democratic
boss of the Hudson wing, Bob Davis, who lay dangerously ill in his modest home on Grove Street,
Jersey City. The visit itself of the Governor-elect to the home of the stricken boss had a
marked psychological effect in conciliating and winning over to our side the active party workers
in the Davis machine. To many of the privates in the ranks the boss was a veritable hero and
they witnessed with pleasure the personal visit of the new Governor-elect to the boss at his
home and looked upon it as a genuine act of obeisance and deference to their stricken leader.
They thought this a generous and a big thing to do, and so it naturally turned their sympathies
to the Governor-elect. It gave further proof to them that the man elected Governor was not
"high-browish" or inclined to fight unless he had previously laid all his cards on the table.
We also realized that to have ignored the boss would have been to give strength and comfort
to the enemy, and so we deliberately set out to cultivate his friends in a spirit of honourable
and frank dealing. The visit to the boss was a part of this plan. The meeting between these
two men--one, the Governor-elect and until recently the president of Princeton; the other,
a Democratic boss, old and battle-scarred--in the little sick room of the humble home, was
a most interesting affair and at times a most touching and pathetic one. Both men were frank
in dealing with each other. There was no formality or coldness in the meeting. The Governor-elect
quickly placed the whole situation before the boss, showing how the Democratic party had for
many years advocated the very system--the election of United States senators by the people--that
the Democratic bosses of the state were now attacking and repudiating. Briefly, he sketched
the disastrous effects upon our party and its prestige in the state and the nation if a Democratic
legislature should be the first, after advocating it, to cast it aside in order to satisfy
the selfish ambition and vanity of one of the Old Guard. In a sincere manly fashion, so characteristic
of him, Boss Davis then proceeded to state his case. Briefly, it was this: He had given his
solemn promise and had entered into a gentleman's agreement with Smith to deliver to him the
twelve legislative votes from Hudson. He would not violate his agreement. Laughingly, he said
to the Governor-elect: "If the Pope of Rome, of whose Church I am a member, should come to
this room to urge me to change my attitude, I would refuse to do so. I have given my promise
and you would not have me break it, would you, Doctor?" With real feeling and a show of appreciation
of the boss's frankness and loyalty to his friends, the Governor-elect quickly replied: "Of
course, I would not have you break your promise, but you must not feel aggrieved if I shall
find it necessary to fight you and Smith in the open for the Hudson votes." "Go on, Doctor,"
said the sick man, "I am a game sport and I am sure that with you there will be no hitting
below the belt." And thus the first conference between the Governor-elect and the political
boss ended.

Mr. Wilson's next visit was to Senator Smith himself at the Senator's home in Newark, a meeting
entirely friendly in character and frank in expressions of the unalterable determination of
the two men, of Senator Smith not to withdraw from the race, of Doctor Wilson to oppose his
candidacy and place the issue before the people of the state. Senator Smith with engaging candour
gave Mr. Wilson his strong personal reasons for wishing to return to the United States Senate:
he said that he had left the Senate under a cloud due to the investigations of the Sugar Trust
and that for the sake of his children he wanted to reinstate himself in the Senate. Mr. Wilson
expressed his sympathy for this motive, more appealing than mere personal ambition, but declared
that he could not permit his sympathy as an individual to interfere with his duty as he conceived
it, as an official pledged by all his public utterances to support progressive principles,
among which was the preferential primary system, and committed to a course of active leadership
in matters which concerned the state at large, in which category the selection of a United
States senator certainly fell. He made a personal appeal to the Senator for the sake of the
party to forego his desire and by a noble act of renunciation to win the regard of all the
citizens of the state, saying: "Why, Senator, you have it in your power to become instantly,
the biggest man in the state." But the Senator was firm. And so, though the visit was conducted
with the dignity and courtesy characteristic of both men, it ended with their frank acknowledgment
to each other that from now on there existed between them a state of war.

Returning to Princeton from Newark, the formal announcement of the Governor's entrance into
the fight was made and the contest for the senatorship and the leadership of the Democratic
party was on. The announcement was as follows:

    WOODROW WILSON'S CHALLENGE TO THE BOSSES
    Friday Evening, Dec. 9,1910.

    The question who should be chosen by the incoming legislature of the
    state to occupy the seat in the Senate of the United States which will
    presently be made vacant by the expiration of the term of Mr. Kean is
    of such vital importance to the people of the state, both as a
    question of political good faith and as a question of genuine
    representation in the Senate, that I feel constrained to express my
    own opinion with regard to it in terms which cannot be misunderstood.
    I had hoped that it would not be necessary for me to speak; but it is.

    I realize the delicacy of taking any part in the discussion of the
    matter. As Governor of New Jersey I shall have no part in the choice
    of a Senator. Legally speaking, it is not my duty even to give advice
    with regard to the choice. But there are other duties besides legal
    duties. The recent campaign has put me in an unusual position. I
    offered, if elected, to be the political spokesman and adviser of the
    people. I even asked those who did not care to make their choice of
    governor upon that understanding not to vote for me. I believe that
    the choice was made upon that undertaking; and I cannot escape the
    responsibility involved. I have no desire to escape it. It is my duty
    to say, with a full sense of the peculiar responsibility of my
    position, what I deem it to be the obligation of the Legislature to do
    in this gravely important matter.

    I know that the people of New Jersey do not desire Mr. James Smith,
    Jr., to be sent again to the Senate. If he should be, he will not go
    as their representative. The only means I have of knowing whom they do
    desire to represent them is the vote at the recent primaries, where
    48,000 Democratic voters, a majority of the whole number who voted at
    the primaries, declared their preference for Mr. Martine, of Union
    County. For me that vote is conclusive. I think it should be for every
    member of the Legislature.

    Absolute good faith in dealing with the people, an unhesitating
    fidelity to every principle avowed, is the highest law of political
    morality under a constitutional government. The Democratic party has
    been given a majority in the Legislature; the Democratic voters of the
    state have expressed their preference under a law advocated and
    supported by the opinion of their party, declared alike in platforms
    and in enacted law. It is clearly the duty of every Democratic
    legislator who would keep faith with the law of the state with the
    avowed principles of his party to vote for Mr. Martine. It is my duty
    to advocate his election--to urge it by every honourable means at my
    command.

Immediately the work of organizing our forces for the fight was set in motion. I had been designated
by the Governor-elect to handle the fight in Hudson County, the Davis stronghold. Meetings
were arranged for at what were considered the strategic points in the fight: Jersey City and
Newark. The announcement of the Governor-elect's acceptance of the challenge had given a thrill
to the whole state and immediately the reaction against the Old Guard's attempt to discredit
the primary choice was evident. The bitterness in the ranks of the contesting factions began
to express itself in charges and counter-charges that were made. Speeches for and against the
candidates were addressed to the ears of the unwary voter. The state was soon up in arms. There
was no doubt of the attitude of the people. This was made plain in so many ways that our task
was to impress this opinion upon the members of the Legislature, whose vote, in the last analysis,
would be the determining factor in this contest. While we were laying down a barrage in the
way of organization work and making preparations for our meetings throughout the state, the
Governor-elect was conferring nightly with members of the Legislature at the University Club
in New York. From day to day could be observed the rising tide in favour of our cause, and
slowly its effect upon the members of the Legislature was made manifest. The first meeting
in the senatorial contest was held in Jersey City. As chairman of the committee, I had arranged
the details for this first speech of the Governor-elect. I had adopted a plan in making the
arrangements that I felt would remove from the minds of the organization workers, to whom we
desired to appeal, the idea that this was a revolt or secessionist movement in the ranks of
the Democratic party. The committee in charge of the meeting had selected the finest, cleanest
men in our party's ranks to preside over and take part in the meeting.

There was never such an outpouring of people. Men and women from outside the state, and, particularly,
men and women from New York and Connecticut, had come all the way to New Jersey to witness
this first skirmish in the political upheaval that was soon to take place. The metropolitan
dailies had sent their best men to write up the story and to give a "size-up" of the new Governor-elect
in fighting action. They were not disappointed. He was in rare form. His speech was filled
with epigrams that carried the fight home to those upon whom we were trying to make an impression.
When he warned his friends not to be afraid of the machine which the bosses controlled he said,
with biting irony: "We do not fear their fortresses [meaning the political machines] that frown
and look down upon us from their shining heights." Smiling deprecatingly and waving his hand,
he continued: "They are but made of paste-board and when you approach them they fall at your
very touch."

Ridiculing and belittling the power of the bosses, he called them "warts upon the body politic."
"It is not," said the new chief of Democracy, "a capital process to cut off a wart. You don't
have to go to the hospital and take an anaesthetic. The thing can be done while you wait, and
it is being done. The clinic is open, and every man can witness the operation."

The meeting was a triumph and strikingly demonstrated the power of brain and fine leadership
over brawn and selfish politics.

The final appeal to the voters on the United States senatorship was made in the heart of the
enemy's country, the stronghold of the Smith-Nugent faction at Newark, New Jersey. The same
enthusiastic, whole-souled response that characterized the Jersey City meeting was repeated.
The same defiant challenge to the Old Guard was uttered by the new Governor. Sarcasm, bitter
irony, delightful humour, and good-natured flings at the Old Guard were found in this his final
appeal. In a tone of voice that carried the deep emotion he felt, he said, as his final word:

    Do you know what is true of the special interests at this moment! They
    have got all their baggage packed and they are ready to strike camp
    over night, provided they think it is profitable for them to come over
    to the Democratic party. They are waiting to come over bag and baggage
    and take possession of the Democratic party. Will they be welcome? Do
    you want them? I pray God we may never wake up some fine morning and
    find them encamped on our side.

The response was thrilling. The two meetings just held, one in Jersey City and the other in
Newark, convinced those of us in charge of the Martine campaign that we had made the right
impression in the state and, having deeply aroused the voters, all we had to do was to harvest
the crop, the seed of which had been planted in the soil of public opinion by the speeches
the new Governor had made. It was plain that the machine crowd was stunned and reeling from
the frequent and telling blows that had been so vigorously delivered by him. Suggestions of
compromise came from the enemy's ranks, but no armistice would be granted, except upon the
basis of an absolute and unconditional surrender. Offers and suggested proposals from the Old
Guard to the Governor-elect were thrust aside as valueless and not worthy his consideration.
There was nothing to do but play for a "knock-out." Soon the full pressure of the opinion of
the state began to be felt. Members of the Legislature from the various counties began to feel
its influence upon them. Our ranks began to be strengthened by additions from the other side.
The Governor's speeches and his nightly conferences were having their full effect. The bosses,
now in panic, were each day borne down by the news brought to them of the innumerable defections
in their quickly dwindling forces. However, the bosses showed a bold front and declared that
their man had the votes. But their confidence waned as election day approached. Realizing the
fact that we were dealing with the best-trained minds in the Democratic party, we gave no news
to the outside world of the strength in number of our own ranks, knowing full well that if
we did so imprudent a thing, the active men in the ranks of the enemy would pull every wire
of influence and use every method of threats and coercion to wean the votes away from us. We
"stood pat" and watched with interest every move made by the other side. In his final statement
before the joint meeting of the Legislature Smith boldly announced his election to the Senate
on the strength of the number of legislative votes pledged to him, but those of us who were
in the midst of this political melee knew that he was licked and that he was only whistling
to keep up his courage.

In the meantime, the Governor-elect had tendered to me the post of secretary to the Governor,
and I accepted this office which brought me into more intimate association with him and his plans.

CHAPTER X

EXIT THE OLD GUARD

The conferences and meetings in preparation for the great senatorial fight having been concluded,
the scene of activities was transferred to Trenton, where shortly after the Inauguration plans
were laid for the final battle.

Immediately upon the conclusion of the Inaugural ceremonies, the hand-to- hand contests for
the great prize and incidentally the leadership of the Democrats, was on in full swing. At
the beginning of the fight the bosses counted upon the active support of the influential Democratic
leaders throughout the state, like Robert S. Hudspeth of Hudson County, Johnston Cornish of
Warren County, Edward E. Grosscup of Gloucester County, Barney Gannon and Peter Daley of Middlesex
County, old Doctor Barber of Warren County, Otto Wittpenn of Hudson County, Billy French and
Judge Westcott of Camden, Dave Crater of Monmouth, and minor bosses or leaders in south and
middle Jersey. But in utter amazement they found that we had captured these fine pieces of
heavy political artillery and that through them we had acquired and taken over some of the
most valuable political salients in the state.

A little incident in the campaign is worth reciting. In managing the campaign I found that
for some unaccountable reason the so-called Irish vote of the state was massed solidly behind
ex-Senator Smith and in bitter opposition to Governor Wilson. We were constantly coming in
contact with these currents of opposition, and how to overcome them and bring the Irish vote
into our fold was the task that devolved upon me as the manager of Martine's campaign. Seated
in my office one day I recalled that years before I had read in the Congressional Record an
account of a speech delivered in the United States Senate by James Smith, upholding in terms
of highest praise the famous Hay-Pauncefote Treaty. The speech in all its details, particularly
the argument it contained calling for closer relations between the United States and Great
Britain, was still fresh in my memory. Evidently Senator Smith and his Irish friends had forgotten
it, for he was now trying to mobilize the Irish vote of the state in his favour. On re-reading
this speech of the old Senator, I smiled with satisfaction, realizing the campaign use that
could be made of it. After considering the matter carefully, I sent for a devoted friend of
mine, a fine, clean-cut Irishman, who stood high in the ranks of the Clan-na-Gael and other
Irish societies in our county. After he had read the speech, we discussed the method of using
it, for we felt sure that our Irish friends, when they became acquainted with this speech upon
reading it, would not find themselves in agreement with Smith's attitude toward England and
the Treaty. My friend consented to write letters to the leading papers, particularly the Irish
papers of the state, setting forth Smith's attitude toward the Treaty. The effect upon the
Irish vote was immediate and soon resolutions began to be adopted by the various Irish societies
throughout the state, denouncing Smith for having advocated the much-despised "Anglo- Saxon
Alliance."

While I opposed Senator Smith in this contest there was nothing personally antagonistic in
my attitude. We were, I hope, friends throughout the conflict, and many times since then we
have discussed the events leading up to Martine's election to the United States Senate. It
was only a few months ago, while seated at a table at the Shoreham Hotel in Washington, that
the old Senator, genial and debonair as ever, was discussing the fights of the old days, and
particularly the events leading up to his defeat for the United States senatorship. In discussing
the New Jersey campaign, he told me of the use that had been made by "someone" in the Wilson
ranks of his Senate speech on the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty. He said that his reason for making
this speech was his sincere desire as an Irish- American to bring about more amicable relations
between the United States and England, and as I listened to this frank recital I felt that,
although the use I had made of his speech was legitimate in the circumstances, there was nothing
to be proud of in having exploited the Senator's really fine speech for political purposes.

The State House at Trenton on the night previous to the balloting for the senatorship was a
place of feverish activity. The Essex ex-Chieftain, Smith, kept "open house" in the then famous
Room 100 of the Trenton House. The Governor-elect, calm and apparently undisturbed, but anxious
and ready for a contest, quietly moved about the Executive offices attending to official matters.

We felt confident of the result of the vote if the members of the Legislature were left free,
but we were certain that every kind of pressure would be put upon them to change the votes
of the wobblers in our ranks. All night long and until four or five o'clock in the morning
the Governor-elect and I remained in the Executive office, keeping in close contact with our
friends both by telephone and personal conference. Senator Smith never knew it, but some of
the men close to him and participating in his own conferences on this fateful night hourly
brought to us information as to what would be the real line-up of his forces on the day set
for balloting. We found a spy in our own ranks--a leading lawyer and politician from, my own
county--who, while pretending to be our friend, was supplying the enemy with what he thought
was useful information. We, however, were already aware of this gentleman's duplicity and,
although he never suspected it, whenever he left the Executive office he was followed by a
professional detective, who heard and reported to us every bit of information he had supplied
to our political foes.

On the night before the election the Smith-Nugent leaders had gathered their forces and, headed
by a band, paraded through the streets of Trenton, passing in review before Senator Smith who
stood upon the steps of the Trenton House and greeted them in most generous fashion. The purpose
of this demonstration was obvious to the Governor-elect and his friends. It was simply to give
to the arriving legislators an impression of great strength behind the Smith-Nugent forces.

On the morning of the balloting the corridors and lobby of the State House were crowded with
the henchmen of the Essex chieftain. The surface indications were that Smith had the necessary
number of votes, but to those of us who were able accurately to analyze the situation it was
apparent that the froth would soon pass away. The parade and the demonstration of the Nugent
followers had deeply impressed some of the men in our ranks, particularly the editor of a Trenton
newspaper, who came to the Executive offices and urged upon the Governor the publication of
a statement which he had prepared, filled with grandiloquent phrase, warning the people of
the state that the members of the Legislature were about to be coerced and threatened by the
strong-arm methods of the Smith-Nugent organization.

Frankly, the suggestion which this Trenton editor made to the new Governor impressed him. The
Governor made certain changes in the statement and then sent for me to read it, asking my advice
upon it. The first test of my official connection with the Governor was at hand. Upon reading
the editor's article I saw at once that its issuance would be most unwise, and I frankly said
so. My practical and political objection to it, however, was that if published it would give
to the people of the state the impression that our forces were in a panic and that we, were
in grave fear of the result. I further argued that it was an attempt at executive coercion
of the Legislature that would meet with bitter resentment. I felt that we had already won the
fight; that the Legislature, which was the jury in the case, was inclined to favour us if we
did not seek to influence its members by such foolish action as the Trenton editor advised.
The statement was not published.

I found in this little argument with the new Governor that he was open- minded and anxious
for advice and I thereafter felt free to discuss matters with him in the frankest way.

The first ballot showed Martine leading heavily. In the following ballots he gained strength
at every count. The Legislature adjourned the first day without reaching a decision. As we
surveyed the field after the first day's balloting it was clear to us that if we hoped to win
the fight we would have to have Hudson County's legislative vote. The Democratic boss, Bob
Davis, had died a few days previous, and had entrusted his affairs to the hands of a fine,
clean-cut, wholesome Irish-American, James Hennessy, then chairman of the Hudson County Democratic
Committee. He was one of the squarest men I ever met in politics and had been an intimate associate
of my father in the old days in Jersey City. On the day of the final balloting we were sorely
pressed. When it seemed as if we had reached the limit of our strength, it occurred to me that
a final appeal to Hennessy by the Governor might have some effect. We decided to send for Hennessy
to come to the Executive offices. It was clear from his attitude when he arrived that, while
his sympathies lay with us, he was bound in honour to carry out the instructions of his chief
and deliver the Hudson County vote to Smith. The Governor, getting very close to him and discussing
the campaign in the most intimate way, told him that if Martine was rejected, the political
effect on our party's fortunes would be disastrous; that we were sure we had the votes and
that the next ballot would give proof of this, and that it was only a question, to use a campaign
phrase, of "getting on the band wagon" and making Martine's nomination unanimous. When the
Governor concluded his talk, I turned to Hennessy in the most familiar way, and spoke of the
Governor's desire to elect Martine and of the unselfish purpose he had in mind and how he,
Hennessy, was blocking the way. I said to him: "You have it in your power to do a big thing.
You may never have the chance again." He finally stood up and said to me: "What do you want
me to do?" I told him that we wanted him to go to the Hudson delegates and give word that the
"jig" was up and that they must throw their support to Martine. Shortly after this meeting
the Hudson delegation met in caucus and agreed to support Martine.

When Smith and Nugent heard of this message they practically surrendered. The balloting which
began at ten o'clock was a mere formal affair for it was plainly evident from the changes in
the early balloting that Martine's election was assured. Martine's election was a fact; and
Woodrow Wilson was the victor in the first battle for the Presidency.

I have stated that I am not proud of the way I used Senator Smith's speech on the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty. We were fighting veterans in the political game, men who knew all the tricks and who
did not scruple to play any of them. In the rough school of practical politics I had been taught
that "you must fight the devil with fire" and that it is as legitimate in politics as in war
to deceive the enemy about your resources. But we conducted politics on higher levels during
the eight years in the White House, when my chief, no longer an amateur, taught me, by precept
and example, that effective fighting can be conducted without resort to the tricks and duplicities
of those who place political advantage above principle. Woodrow Wilson made new rules for the
game, and they were the rules which men of honour adopt when conducting their private business
on principles of good faith and truth-telling.

CHAPTER XI

EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP

The election of Martine having been settled and the preferential vote having been validated
through the courageous handling of a delicate situation, the new Governor was firmly in the
saddle. His leadership had been tested and only the fragments of the Old Guard machine were
left. The road was thus cleared of all obstacles in his own party that might be put in the
way of his programme of constructive legislation.

Having delivered his first message, which contained a full and detailed discussion of his whole
programme, he applied himself with great energy and industry to the task of preparing bills
for introduction in the Senate and House. Not content with the mere delivery of his message,
he put himself entirely at the disposal of the members of the Legislature and industriously
applied himself to the task of preparation until the following measures: Regulation of Public
Utilities, Corrupt Practices Act, Direct Primaries Act, and the Employers' Liability Act, were
in shape to be introduced.

While his leadership was vindicated as a result of the Smith-Martine fight, the contest had
undoubtedly left many bitter scars and enmities which soon manifested themselves in the unfriendly
attitude of the Smith men in the Legislature toward the new Governor and particularly toward
his programme of constructive legislation. For awhile after the election of Martine they seemed
subdued and cheerfully resigned to defeat; but when the new Governor launched his legislative
programme they began eagerly to attack it in many subtle ways. While there were some members
of this group who honestly opposed the Governor's programme because of their conservative tendencies,
the majority of the opposition were bent upon "putting it to sleep," because, forsooth, it
bore the Wilson label. The new Governor quickly grasped the full significance of the situation
and openly challenged the opposition. To accomplish his purpose, he did an unprecedented thing.
He invited the Democratic members of the Legislature to meet him in the Supreme Court Room
of the State House and there, face to face, he laid before them various items of his programme
and challenged the opposition to lay their cards on the table. In the course of this conference
one of the leaders of the Smith-Nugent faction expressed his dissatisfaction with the whole
programme, challenging the new Governor's right to be present at the conference; even intimating
that his presence was an unconstitutional act which might subject him to impeachment. The new
Governor, undisturbed by this criticism, turned to the gentleman who had challenged his right
to be present at the conference, and said:

    You can turn aside from the measure if you choose; you can decline to
    follow me; you can deprive me of office and turn away from me, but you
    cannot deprive me of power so long as I steadfastly stand for what I
    believe to be the interests and legitimate demands of the people
    themselves. I beg you to remember, in this which promises to be an
    historic conference, you are settling the question of the power or
    impotence, the distinction or the ignominy of the party to which the
    people with singular generosity have offered the conduct of their
    affairs.

Some of the members of the Legislature came to my office after this conference and told me
of the great speech the Governor had just delivered and how defiantly he had met the attack
of his enemies. This caucus gave an emphatic endorsement of his legislative programme and in
a few weeks the House of Assembly had acted upon it, and the various bills that constituted
his entire programme were on their way to the Republican Senate. How to induce favourable action
at the hands of the Republican Senate was a problem. There were very few members of the Senate
whose ideals and purposes were in agreement with those of the Governor.

When the bills reached the Senate, the Governor began daily conferences with the Republican
members of that body, discussing with them the items of his programme and urging speedy action
upon them. As a part of the programme of inducing the Republicans to support him, a friend
of mine who was on the inside of the Republican situation reported to me that it was the opinion
in the Republican ranks that the new Governor was too much a professor and doctrinaire; that
he was lacking in good-fellowship and companionship; that while the members of the Legislature
who had conferred with him had found him open and frank, they thought there was a coldness
and an austerity about him which held the Governor aloof and prevented that intimate contact
that was so necessary in working out the programme we had outlined.

We finally decided that the fault lay in the lack of social intimacy between the new Governor
and the members of the Legislature. In my social and official contact with Mr. Wilson I always
found him most genial and agreeable. When we were at luncheon or dinner at the old Sterling
Hotel in Trenton he would never burden our little talks by any weighty discussion of important
matters that were pending before him. He entirely forgot all business and gave himself over
to the telling of delightful stories. How to make the real good-fellowship of the man an asset
in dealing with the members of the Senate was a problem. I very frankly told him one day at
luncheon that many members of both legislative bodies felt that he was too stiff and academic
and that they were anxious to find out for themselves if there was a more human side to him.
In order to give him an opportunity to overcome this false impression we arranged a delightful
dinner at the Trenton Country Club, to which we invited both Democratic and Republican members
of the Senate. The evening was a delightful one. In the corner of the little room where the
dinner was served sat three darky musicians who regaled the little group with fine old southern
melodies. It was real fun to watch the new Governor's conduct in this environment. He was like
a boy out of school. He was no longer the college professor or the cold man of affairs. He
delighted the members of the Senate who sat about him with amusing stories, witty remarks,
and delightful bits of sarcasm. At the close of the dinner, Senator Frelinghuysen walked over
and challenged him to a Virginia Reel. He accepted this invitation and the crowd of men were
soon delighted to see the Somerset senator lead the new Governor out on the floor and his long
legs were soon moving in rhythm with the music.

After all, men are just boys, and this bringing together of these practical men on so happy
and free an occasion did much to convince the members of the Senate that the new Governor after
all was like themselves, a plain, simple man, modestly trying to serve the interests of a great
state.

This affair broke the ice, and after that there was a close intimacy between the Governor and
the members of the Legislature, both Democrats and Republicans, and this cooeperation soon
brought about the enactment of the whole Wilson programme. Never before had so comprehensive
a programme been so expeditiously acted upon by a legislative body. The Legislature had convened
in January and by the middle of April every campaign pledge that the Governor had made had
been kept, although the Senate with which he had to deal was largely Republican.

As the legislative session progressed it appeared that certain Democratic senators were reluctant
to follow his leadership. Indeed it was also apparent that the Republicans were alike unwilling
to act favourably upon his legislative suggestions. In this situation he summoned the Democratic
senators and reminded them of the party pledges in the platform and served notice that if they
did not vote for these measures they would have to explain to their constituents. He then summoned
the Republican senators and said to them, in effect, this: "The legislation proposed was promised
in the Democratic platform. That is not your platform. Therefore, you are not pledged to this
action. But if you obstruct the action I shall have to trouble you to go with me to your districts
and discuss these matters with your constituents and tell them why you consider this bad legislation
and why you resisted it."

The newspapers of the country soon began to discuss the achievements of the Wilson administration
in New Jersey and immediately the name of the Governor began to be mentioned in connection
with the Presidency.

One of the matters of national importance with which he was called upon to deal during this
legislative session was the passage of railroad grade- crossing legislation. In response to
the agitation that had long existed in New Jersey for the elimination of grade crossings, the
Democrats had inserted a radical plank in their platform in reference to it, and, acting upon
this, the Legislature had passed a grade-crossing bill, to which the railroads of the state
strenuously objected. It was a matter of the greatest public interest and importance that for
many years had been the subject of bitter controversies throughout the state. While the bill
was before the Governor for consideration, the railroad attorneys had prepared long, comprehensive
briefs attacking the bill as unjust to the railroads and as containing many features which
in their essence were confiscatory. When the bill came before the Governor for final action
no one considered for a moment the possibility of a veto, first, because of the traditional
attitude of the Democratic party of New Jersey in the matter of grade crossings; and, secondly,
because of the effect a veto would have upon the progressive thought of the country. I recall
very well my discussion with him in regard to this most important bill. Realizing that he was
at this time looming up as a national figure, and knowing that the Progressives of the country
were awaiting with keen interest his action on the bill, I feared the effect upon his political
fortunes that a veto of the bill would undoubtedly have.

The Baltimore Convention was only a few months away and it was clear to me that no matter how
safe and sane were the grounds upon which he would veto this legislation, his enemies in the
Democratic party would charge him with being influenced by the New Jersey railroad interests
who were engaged in a most vigorous campaign against the passage of this legislation. In fact,
when we came to discuss the matter, I frankly called this phase of it to his attention. I tried
to make him see the effects such a veto would have upon his political fortunes, but he soon
made it clear to me that he was unmindful of all such consequences. After thoroughly considering
the matter, he finally decided to veto the bill. In discussing the matter with me, he said:
"I realize the unjust and unfortunate inference that will be drawn by my political enemies
from a veto of this bill, but the bill, as drawn, is unjust and unfair to the railroads and
I ought not to be afraid to say so publicly. I cannot consider the effect of a veto upon my
own political fortunes. If I should sign this bill it would mean practically a confiscation
of railroad property and I would not be worthy of the trust of a single mail in the state or
in the country were I afraid to do my duty and to protect private property by my act." His
attitude toward the bill was clearly set forth in the veto, part of which is as follows:

    I know the seriousness and great consequence of the question affected
    by this important measure. There is a demand, well grounded and
    imperative, throughout the state that some practicable legislation
    should be adopted whereby the grade crossings of railways which
    everywhere threaten life and interfere with the convenience of both
    city and rural communities should as rapidly as possible be abolished.
    But there is certainly not a demand in New Jersey for legislation
    which is unjust and impracticable.

           *       *       *       *       *

    The non-enactment of this bill into law will, of course, be a serious
    disappointment to the people of the state, but it will only
    concentrate their attention upon the just and equitable way of
    accomplishing the end in view. I do not believe that the people of the
    state are in such haste as to be willing to work a gross injustice,
    either to the railroads or to private owners of property, or to the
    several communities affected.

Of course his political enemies made free use of this veto in an effort to injure him throughout
the country in every state campaign where his fortunes as candidate were involved. As a matter
of fact, his veto of this bill did shock the people of the state, but when they seriously considered
the matter in all its aspects, they felt that their governor had, at least, done an honourable
and a courageous thing in refusing to approve it.

Discussion of him as a strong Presidential possibility was steadily growing. I had felt a delicacy
about talking of this with him, but in a walk that we were accustomed to take along the banks
of the Delaware and Raritan Canal between office hours, I, one day, made bold to open, the
subject in this way: "It is evident from the newspapers, Governor, that you are being considered
for the Presidency." I could plainly see from the way he met the suggestion that he did not
resent my boldness in opening the discussion. I told him that we were receiving letters at
the Executive offices from various parts of the country in praise of the programme he had just
put through the legislature. As we discussed the possibilities of the Presidential situation,
he turned to me in the most solemn way, and putting his hand to his mouth, as if to whisper
something, said: "I do not know, Tumulty, that I would care to be President during the next
four years." And then looking around as if he were afraid uninvited ears might be listening,
he continued: "For the next President will have a war on his hands, and I am not sure that
I would make a good war President." This reply greatly excited my curiosity and interest and
I said: "With what nation do you think we will have a war?" Very cautiously he said: "I do
not care to name the nation," and our little talk ended. This statement was made to me in April,
1911. Was it a prophecy of the war that was to burst upon the world in August, 1914?

CHAPTER XII

COLONEL HARVEY

Upon the completion of the legislative work of the first session of the New Jersey Legislature
the name of Woodrow Wilson quickly forged to the front as a strong Presidential possibility.
Intimate friends, including Walter Hines Page, afterward United States Ambassador to Great
Britain; Cleveland H. Dodge and Robert Bridges, the two latter old friends and classmates of
the Governor in the famous class of '79 at Princeton, set about by conferences to launch the
Presidential boom of their friend, and selected for the task of the actual management of the
campaign the young Princetonian, William F. McCombs, then an active and rising young lawyer
of New York. These gentlemen, and other devoted friends and advisers of the Governor, made
up the first Wilson contingent, and at once initiated a plan of publicity and organization
throughout the country. They arranged to have the New Jersey Governor visit strategic points
in the country to make addresses on a variety of public questions. Whether Colonel Harvey was
behind the scenes as the adviser of this little group I have never ascertained, but Harper's
Weekly, then edited by the Colonel, was his leading supporter in the magazine world, carrying
the name of the Princetonian at its mast-head as a candidate for the Presidency. There were
frequent conferences between the Colonel and the Governor at the Executive offices, and as
a result of these conferences the Wilson boom soon became a thing to be reckoned with by the
Old Guard in control of party affairs in the nation.

Wilson stock from the moment of the adjournment of the Legislature began to rise, and his candidacy
spread with great rapidity, until in nearly every state in the Union "Wilson Clubs" were being
established. The New Jersey primaries, where again he met and defeated the Smith forces; the
Ohio primaries, where he split the delegates with the favourite son, Governor Harmon, a distinguished
Democrat; and the Wisconsin primaries, at which he swept the state, gave a tremendous impetus
to the already growing movement for the "Reform" Governor of New Jersey.

Everything was serenely moving in the Wilson camp, when like a thunderclap out of a clear sky
broke the story of the disagreement between Colonel Harvey, Marse Henry Watterson, and the
Governor of New Jersey. I recall my conversation with Governor Wilson on the day following
the Harvey- Watterson conference at a New York club. As private secretary to the Governor,
I always made it a rule to keep in close touch with every conference then being held regarding
the political situation, and in this way I first learned about the Harvey-Watterson meeting
which for a few weeks threatened to destroy all the lines of support that had been built up
throughout the past months of diligent work and organization.

The Governor and I were seated in a trolley car on our way from the State Capitol to the railroad
station in Trenton when he informed me, in the most casual way and without seeming to understand
the possible damage he had done his own cause, of what followed the conference the previous
day. It was like this: the conference had ended and they were leaving the room when Colonel
Harvey put his hand on Woodrow Wilson's shoulder and said: "Governor, I want to ask you a frank
question, and I want you to give me a frank answer. In your opinion is the support of Harper's
Weekly helping or hurting you?" In telling me of it Woodrow Wilson said: "I was most embarrassed,
and replied: 'Colonel, I wish you had not asked me that question.' 'Well, what is the answer?'
Colonel Harvey insisted pleasantly. 'Why, Colonel, some of my friends tell me it is not helping
me in the West.' Colonel Harvey said: I was afraid you might feel that way about it, and we
shall have to soft-pedal a bit'." Mr. Wilson was so serenely unconscious that any offence had
been taken that when informed by me a little later that his name had disappeared from the head
of the editorial column of Harper's Weekly he did not connect this with the interview. "Was
Colonel Harvey offended?" I asked. "He didn't seem to be," was the Governor's answer.

I immediately scented the danger of the situation and the possibilities of disaster to his
political fortunes that lay in his reply, and I told him very frankly that I was afraid he
had deeply wounded Colonel Harvey and that it might result in a serious break in their relations.
The Governor seemed grieved at this and said that he hoped such was not the case; that even
after he had expressed himself so freely, Colonel Harvey had been most kind and agreeable to
him and that they had continued to discuss in the most friendly way the plans for the campaign
and that the little conference had ended without apparent evidence that anything untoward had
happened that might lead to a break in their relations. We then discussed at length the seriousness
of the situation, and as a result of our talk the Governor wrote Colonel Harvey and endeavoured
to make clear what he had in mind when he answered the question put to him by the Colonel at
the club conference a few days before, not, indeed, by way of apology, but simply by way of
explanation. This letter to the Colonel and a subsequent one went a long way toward softening
the unfortunate impression that had been created by the publication of the Harvey-Watterson
correspondence. The letters are as follows:

    (Personal)

    University Club
    Fifth Avenue and Fifty-Fourth Street
      December 21, 1911.

    MY DEAR COLONEL:

    Every day I am confirmed in the judgment that my mind is a one-track
    road and can run only one train of thought at a time! A long time
    after that interview with you and Marse Henry at the Manhattan Club it
    came over me that when (at the close of the interview) you asked me
    that question about the Weekly I answered it simply as a matter of
    fact and of business, and said never a word of my sincere gratitude to
    you for all your generous support, or of my hope that it might be
    continued. Forgive me, and forget my manners!

    Faithfully, yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

To which letter Colonel Harvey sent the following reply:

    (Personal)

    Franklin Square
    New York, January 4, 1912.

    MY DEAR WILSON:

    Replying to your note from the University Club, I think it should get
    without saying that no purely personal issue could arise between you
    and me. Whatever anybody else may surmise, you surely must know that
    in trying to arouse and further your political aspirations during the
    past few years I have been actuated solely by the belief that I was
    rendering a distinct public service.

    The real point at the time of our interview was, as you aptly put it,
    one simply "of fact and of business," and when you stated the fact to
    be that my support was hurting your candidacy, and that you were
    experiencing difficulty in finding a way to counteract its harmful
    effect, the only thing possible for me to do, in simple fairness to
    you, no less than in consideration of my own self-respect, was to
    relieve you of your embarrassment so far as it lay within my power to
    do so, by ceasing to advocate your nomination. That, I think, was
    fully understood between us at the time, and, acting accordingly, I
    took down your name from the head of the Weekly's editorial page
    some days before your letter was written. That seems to be all there
    is to it. Whatever little hurt I may have felt as a consequence of the
    unexpected peremptoriness of your attitude toward me is, of course,
    wholly eliminated by your gracious words.

    Very truly yours,
      GEORGE HARVEY.

To Colonel Harvey's letter Governor Wilson replied as follows:

    (Personal)

    Hotel Astor
    New York, January 11, 1912.

    MY DEAR COL. HARVEY:

    Generous and cordial as was your letter written in reply to my note
    from the University Club, it has left me uneasy, because, in its
    perfect frankness, it shows that I did hurt you by what I so
    tactlessly said at the Knickerbocker Club. I am very much ashamed of
    myself, for there is nothing I am more ashamed of than hurting a true
    friend, however unintentional the hurt may have been. I wanted very
    much to see you in Washington, but was absolutely captured by callers
    every minute I was in my rooms, and when I was not there was
    fulfilling public engagements. I saw you at the dinner but could not
    get at you, and after the dinner was surrounded and prevented from
    getting at you. I am in town to day, to speak this evening, and came
    in early in the hope of catching you at your office.

    For I owe it to you and to my own thought and feeling to tell you how
    grateful I am for all your generous praise and support of me (no one
    has described me more nearly as I would like myself to be than you
    have); how I have admired you for the independence and unhesitating
    courage and individuality of your course; and how far I was from
    desiring that you should cease your support of me in the Weekly. You
    will think me very stupid--but I did not think of that as the result
    of my blunt answer to your question. I thought only of the means of
    convincing people of the real independence of the Weekly's position.
    You will remember that that was what we discussed. And now that I have
    unintentionally put you in a false and embarrassing position you heap
    coals of fire on my head by continuing to give out interviews
    favourable to my candidacy!

    All that I can say is that you have proved yourself very big, and that
    I wish I might have an early opportunity to tell you face to face how
    I really feel about it all. With warm regard,

    Cordially and faithfully, yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

For a while it seemed as if the old relations between the Colonel and the New Jersey Governor
would be resumed, but some unfriendly influence, bent upon the Governor's undoing, thrust itself
into the affair, and soon the story of the Manhattan Club incident broke about the Princetonian's
head with a fury and bitterness that deeply distressed many of Mr. Wilson's friends throughout
the country. The immediate effect upon his candidacy was almost disastrous. Charges of ingratitude
to the "original Wilson man" flew thick and fast. Mr. Wilson's enemies throughout the country
took up the charge of ingratitude and soon the stock of the New Jersey man began to fall, until
his immediate friends almost lost heart. The bad effect of the publication of the Harvey-Watterson
correspondence and the bitter attacks upon the sincerity of the New Jersey Governor were soon
perceptible in the falling away of contributions so necessary to keep alive the campaign then
being carried on throughout the country. The "band-wagon" crowd began to leave us and jump
aboard the Clark, Underwood, and Harmon booms.

Suddenly, as if over night, a reaction in favour of Governor Wilson began to set in. The continued
pounding and attacks of the reactionary press soon convinced the progressives in the ranks
of the Democratic party that Wilson was being unjustly condemned, because he had courageously
spoken what many believed to be the truth. At this critical stage of affairs a thing happened
which, routed his enemies. One of the leading publicity men of the Wilson forces in Washington,
realizing the damage that was being done his chief, inspired a story, through his Washington
newspaper friends, that Wilson was being gibbeted because he refused to accept the support
of Wall Street interests which Harvey and Watterson had offered him, and that his refusal to
accept their offer was the real cause of the break. This new angle of the Harvey-Watterson
episode worked a complete reversal of opinion.

The clever work of this publicity man in turning the light on what he conceived to be the real
purpose of the Harvey-Watterson conference probably did injustice to these two gentlemen, but
at all events it gave weight to the impression in the minds of many people throughout the country
that the real reason for the break was Mr. Wilson's refusal to bow the knee to certain eastern
financial interests that were understood to be behind Harper's Weekly. The tide quickly turned
against Colonel Harvey and Marse Henry Watterson. Marse Henry, alone in his suite at the New
Willard Hotel at Washington, and the Colonel away off in his tower at Deal, New Jersey, were
busily engaged in explaining to the public and attempting, in heroic fashion, to extricate
themselves from the unfortunate implications created by the story of the Wilson publicity man.
What appeared at first blush to be a thing that would destroy the candidacy of the New Jersey
Governor had been, by clever newspaper manipulation, turned to his advantage and aid.

When the bitterness and rancour caused by this unfortunate incident had happily passed away
Colonel Watterson and I met at a delightful dinner at Harvey's Restaurant in Washington and
discussed the "old fight." The young fellow who had inspired the story which so grievously
distressed Marse Henry and Colonel Harvey was present at this dinner. Marse Henry was in fine
spirits, and without showing the slightest trace of the old bitterness, rehearsed the details
of this now-famous incident in a witty, sportsmanlike, and good-natured way, and at its conclusion
he turned to my newspaper friend and laughingly said: "You damn rascal, you are the scoundrel
who sent out the story that Harvey and I were trying to force Wall Street money on Wilson.
However, old man, it did the trick. If it had not been for the clever use you made of this
incident, Wilson never would have been President."

In a beautiful letter addressed to the President by Marse Henry on September 24, 1914, conveying
his expressions of regret at the death of the President's first wife, appears the following
statement with reference to the famous Harvey-Watterson controversy:

    I hope that hereafter you and I will better understand one another; in
    any event that the single disagreeable episode will vanish and never
    be thought of more. In Paris last winter I went over the whole matter
    with Mr. McCombs and we quite settled and blotted out our end of it. I
    very much regret the use of any rude word--too much the characteristic
    of our rough-and-tumble political combats--and can truly say that I
    have not only earnestly wished the success of your administration but
    have sought to find points of agreement, not of disagreement.

    I am writing as an old man--old enough to be your father--who has the
    claim upon your consideration that all his life he has pursued the
    ends you yourself have aimed at, if at times too zealously and
    exactingly, yet without self-seeking or rancor.

    Your friend,
      HENRY WATTERSON.

The President's acknowledgment of this letter is as follows:

    September 28, 1914.

    MY DEAR COLONEL WATTERSON:

    Your kind letter has gratified me very deeply. You may be sure that
    any feeling I may have had has long since disappeared and that I feel
    only gratified that you should again and again have come to my support
    in the columns of the Courier-Journal. The whole thing was a great
    misunderstanding.

    Sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

While the Harvey-Watterson episode ended as above related, there is no doubt that Woodrow Wilson
deeply regretted the whole matter, and, so far as he was concerned, there was no feeling on
his part of unfriendliness or bitterness toward Colonel Harvey. Indeed, he felt that Colonel
Harvey had unselfishly devoted himself to his cause in the early and trying days of his candidacy,
and that Harvey's support of him was untouched by selfish interests of any kind. In every way
he tried to soften the unfortunate impression that had been made on the country by what many
thought was an abrupt, ungracious way of treating a friend. An incident in connection with
this matter is worth relating:

One day at the conclusion of the regular Tuesday cabinet meeting the President and I lingered
at the table, as was our custom, and gossiped about the affairs of the Administration and the
country. These discussions were intimate and frank in every way.

A note in the social column of one of the leading papers of Washington carried the story that
Colonel Harvey's daughter, Miss Dorothy Harvey, was in town and was a guest at the home of
Mrs. Champ Clark. I took occasion to mention this to the President, suggesting that it would
be a gracious thing on his part and on the part of Mrs. Wilson to invite Miss Harvey to the
Sayre-Wilson wedding which was scheduled to take place a few days later, hoping that in this
way an opening might be made for the resumption of the old relationship between the Colonel
and Mr. Wilson. The President appeared greatly interested in the suggestion, saying that he
would take it up with Mrs. Wilson at once, assuring me that it could be arranged. When I saw
how readily he acted upon this suggestion, I felt that this was an opening for a full, frank
discussion of his relations with Colonel Harvey. I approached the subject in this way: "For
a long time I have wanted to discuss Colonel Harvey with you. There is no doubt, Governor,
that this unfortunate episode did not sit well on the stomachs of the American people. Whether
you believe it or not, the country resented your attitude toward your old friend, and out of
this incident an impression has grown which is becoming stronger with each day, that you pay
little regard to friendship and the obligations that grow out of it. I have been hoping that
in some way the old relationship could be resumed and that you would feel free at some time
in a public way to attest your real feeling for Colonel Harvey, at least by way of reciprocation
for the genuine way he stood by you in the old days in New Jersey." The President looked at
me in the most serious way, apparently weighing every word I had uttered, and said: "You are
right, Tumulty; unfortunate impressions have been created. What can I do for Colonel Harvey
to attest in some public way my appreciation of what he did for me in the old days?" I asked
why, inasmuch as McCombs had declined the French Ambassadorship, this post might not be offered
to Colonel Harvey, adding that I believed he coveted and would appreciate such an appointment.
The President said that this was an admirable suggestion and authorized me to get in touch
with Colonel Harvey at once and make him the offer of the French post.

While my relations with Colonel Harvey were at no time strained, and, in fact, up to this day
our friendship has been uninterrupted, I thought it would be more tactful if I should approach
him through the junior senator from New York, James O'Gorman. Immediately upon leaving the
President I went to the Army and Navy Club, where Senator O'Gorman was living, and told him
of my conversation with the President in reference to Colonel Harvey. He was enthusiastic and
immediately got in touch with Colonel Harvey at his home at Deal, New Jersey, told him of the
President's offer, and asked for a conference. Then a thing happened which completely destroyed
these plans for a reconciliation. The following Sunday an interview signed by Colonel Harvey,
bitterly assailing the President, appeared in the New York Times. The fat was in the fire.
Senator O'Gorman and I were silenced. When I approached the President on Monday morning to
discuss further the matter with him, he said: "I greatly regret this interview of Colonel Harvey.
How can I now with propriety offer him any post? Knowing Harvey as I do, he would be reluctant
to take it, for the country might be of the opinion that he had yielded in his criticism of
me by the offer of this appointment, and I could not in honour make the appointment now, for
it might appear to the country that by this method I was trying to purchase the silence of
the Colonel. I am very sorry, indeed, that the plan we discussed has fallen to the ground."

And thus the efforts of Mr. Wilson to bring about a reconciliation with his old friend ended
in dismal failure.

CHAPTER XIII

THE "COCKED-HAT" INCIDENT

While Governor Wilson came out of this controversy with the two Colonels, Harvey and Watterson,
with flying colours, he was by no means beyond the danger line. His enemies both within and
without the party hotly contested his leadership, and the bitterness of the opposition grew
in proportion as his candidacy gained daily advantages. Everything possible was done to block
his progress and to make more difficult his road to the Presidency. Everything he had ever
said or written, especially his "History of the American People," was carefully examined in
the hope of finding some way to discredit him. All the guns of the opposition were turned upon
him, but nothing seemed sufficient to block his progress. All the charges, intimations, insinuations,
and slanders that were industriously circulated by his enemies were without effect, and the
trained political minds in his own camp were apprehensive lest his candidacy had reached its
climax too long before the convention. How to maintain the present advantage was the problem
that perplexed them. They were hopefully looking forward to the benefits that would accrue
to their candidate in the round-up of candidates at the famous Jackson Day dinner, scheduled
for early January, 1912. This dinner was an annual affair and was eagerly looked forward to.
It was expected that the leading lights of the Democratic party would attend this dinner, including
Colonel W. J. Bryan, Champ Clark, Oscar Underwood, ex-Governor Folk of Missouri, Roger Sullivan
of Illinois, and the New Jersey Governor's friends were confident that because of his ability
as a public speaker he would make a strong and favourable impression. They were not disappointed.

We were awaiting the Jackson Day dinner with great expectations, and congratulating ourselves
that we were now safely "out of the woods," and that things would move smoothly for our candidate,
when like a bolt from, the blue came the publication of the famous Joline "cocked-hat" letter,
which caused another panic in the ranks of the too-optimistic Wilson forces.

This letter was written by Mr. Wilson to Mr. Adrian Joline, a Princeton alumnus and prominent
New York lawyer at the time of the split in the Democratic party over the silver question.
The letter is as follows:

    Princeton, New Jersey,
      April 29, 1907.

    MY DEAR MR. JOLINE:

    Thank you very much for sending me your address at Parsons, Kan.,
    before the board of directors of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway
    Company. I have read it with relish and entire agreement. Would that
    we could do something, at once dignified and effective, to knock Mr.
    Bryan once for all into a cocked hat!

    Cordially and sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

The publication of this letter came at a most inopportune time for the Wilson candidacy, and
how to meet it was one of the most difficult problems that the Wilson forces had to face. Our
enemies were jubilant. They felt that at last they had broken our lines and that we would not
be able to "come back."

At this time I was at the State House at Trenton and I received a telegram from the Governor,
requesting that I come at once to Washington, where he was conferring with the leaders of his
forces in an effort to find some way to neutralize the bad effects of the Joline cocked-hat
story in advance of the Jackson Day banquet, at which Mr. Bryan would be present. On my arrival
in Washington I went to the Willard Hotel and found the Governor hi a conference with William
F. McCombs, Tom Pence, Senator O'Gorman, and Dudley Field Malone. We discussed the situation
fully and the character of reply the Governor should make by way of explanation of the Joline
letter. Mr. Josephus Daniels, a friend and associate of Mr. Bryan, was sent to confer with
Mr. Bryan in order that Mr. Wilson might have a close friend at hand who could interpret the
motives which lay back of the Joline letter and impress upon Mr. Bryan the present favourable
attitude of Mr. Wilson toward him. Mr. McCombs suggested that the Governor address an open
letter to Mr. Bryan, voicing his regret over the publication of this letter and assuring him
of his present kindly feelings toward him. I vigorously opposed Mr. McCombs' suggestion, arguing
that no explanation of the Joline letter could be made to Mr. Bryan that would wear the appearance
of sincerity, or be convincing, and that the letter having been written there was nothing to
do to extenuate it in any way and that the wise thing was to make a virtue of necessity. I
suggested that on the following night, when the Governor was to deliver his address at the
Jackson Day dinner, he could, in the most generous and kindly way, pay a handsome tribute to
Mr. Bryan for his unselfish service to the Democratic party throughout the dark years he had
been its leader; that I felt that he would appreciate a tribute of this kind and that he would
resent any explanation of this incident which would appear to be truckling or apologetic in
character. This plan was finally agreed upon. In the very beginning of his speech, in the most
tactful way, Governor Wilson paid a tribute to the Great Commoner by saying, as he turned to
Mr. Bryan: "When others were faint-hearted, Colonel Bryan carried the Democratic standard.
He kept the 'fires burning' which have heartened and encouraged the democracy of the country."

The speech at the Jackson Day dinner was a triumph for Woodrow Wilson. While it was a tempestuous
voyage for him, with many dangerous eddies to be avoided, he emerged from the experience with
his prestige enhanced and with his candidacy throughout the country strengthened. The Bryan-Joline
crisis was safely passed. In the presence of the newspaper men at the banquet, Mr. Bryan put
his arm around Mr. Wilson's shoulders in an affectionate way, and thus happily concluded the
incident which for a time threatened to wreck a great enterprise.

On his return from Washington to Trenton, Governor Wilson told me that Mr. Bryan had bidden
him not to worry about the publication of the Joline letter, saying: "I, of course, knew that
you were not with me in my position on the currency," and Woodrow Wilson replied: "All I can
say, Mr. Bryan, is that you are a great, big man."

CHAPTER XIV

WILSON AND THE OLD GUARD

Old line politicians, like Roger Sullivan of Illinois and Tom Taggart of Indiana, were turned
to the Princetonian by his notable speech at the Jackson Day dinner and now gave sympathetic
ear to the New Jersey Governor's claims for the nomination. An incident which happened at the
conclusion of the banquet, as the Governor was on his way to make his train for New Jersey,
illustrates the character of the victory he had won over difficulties which at the time seemed
insurmountable. The old Illinois leader, Roger Sullivan, greeted the candidate in the most
friendly way as he left the banquet hall, saying to him as he grasped his hand: "That was a
great speech, Governor," and then, drawing closer to him, added: "I cannot say to you now just
what the Illinois delegation will do, but you may rely upon it, I will be there when you need
me," This remark did not seem of importance at the time, but when we discussed the incident
the next day at the Capitol at Trenton we both felt that, at a critical moment of the convention
Roger Sullivan could be relied upon to support us and to throw the vote of Illinois our way.
Sullivan kept his promise in real, generous fashion. When it seemed as if the Baltimore Convention
was at the point of deadlock, and after the Illinois delegation had voted many times for Champ
Clark, Sullivan threw the full support of Illinois to the New Jersey Governor, and thus the
tide was quickly turned in favour of Mr. Wilson's candidacy for the Presidency.

I had often wondered what influence beyond this Jackson Day banquet speech had induced this
grizzly old political warrior to support Woodrow Wilson. Afterward I learned the real cause
of it from men who kept in close touch with the Illinois delegation during the trying days
of the Baltimore Convention.

Everyone who knew Roger Sullivan knew the great influence which both his fine wife and devoted
son wielded over him. His son, Boetius, a Harvard graduate, had early become a Wilson devotee
and supporter, and the correspondence between father, mother, and son, contained a spirited
discussion of the availability of the New Jersey man for the Democratic nomination. The interest
of Mrs. Sullivan and her son continued throughout the days of the Convention, which they both
attended, and at the most critical moment in the proceedings of the Convention when a point
was arrived at when the Illinois vote was decisive, the Illinois leader left a conference where
he was being strongly urged by Mr. Wilson's friends to support the New Jersey Governor, to
have a final conference with Mrs. Sullivan and their son before he would finally agree to throw
his support to Wilson.

Everyone at Baltimore knows the result of this conference and how the inner councils of the
Sullivan family prevailed. Illinois swung to Wilson and he was soon nominated. It was said,
after the New Jersey man's nomination and election, that he showed base ingratitude to Roger
Sullivan, the man who more than any other single individual in the Convention had brought about
his nomination. Mr. Sullivan's devoted friends in Illinois were particularly bitter at the
apparent coldness of Mr. Wilson toward their friend and idol. The President, as a matter of
fact, was never unmindful of his obligation to Sullivan for the personally loyal way he had
stood by him at Baltimore, and in every way while he was President he let those associated
with him know that Sullivan and his friends, wherever it was possible, should be preferred
in the matter of the distribution of patronage in Illinois.

The thing, however, which irritated Sullivan's friends and made many of them irreconcilable
foes of Woodrow Wilson was his apparent unwillingness to say a good word for Sullivan when
he announced his candidacy for the United States senatorship of Illinois. This presented an
opportunity for President Wilson to pay the old debt and "even up" things with Roger. Realizing
the delicacy of the situation and how deeply the progressive element in the Democratic party
throughout the country might misunderstand and even resent his putting his "okeh" on the candidacy
of the Illinois leader for the senatorship, nevertheless, upon considering the matter, he decided
to do so and prepared a generous and wholehearted letter of endorsement of Sullivan. He felt
that as a good sportsman he was bound in honour to do this for the man whose influence and
support, thrown to him at the right moment of the Convention, had brought about his nomination
for the Presidency. But there were other and deeper reasons urging him on to endorse his old
friend. He knew how eagerly and earnestly Sullivan had fought for him at Baltimore and how
in doing so he had won the enmity of the eastern wing of the Democratic party. The old bosses
in the party, like Smith and Murphy, had often twitted Sullivan on his support of Wilson and
threatened reprisals. Sullivan, however, stood like adamant against these influences and showed
an allegiance to the New Jerseyman which earned the admiration and affection of every Wilsonite
in the country. The President felt confident that should Roger Sullivan be elected to the Senate,
he could count upon him to stand by and loyally support him and the Administration. At this
very time the President was beginning to realize in the keenest way the necessity for real,
loyal backing in the Senate. Many of the men whom he had personally supported for the Senate
in the various senatorial fights throughout the country, especially those who were known as
progressive senators, like Hardwick and Smith of Georgia, O'Gorman of New York, and Martine
of New Jersey, had grown indifferent and were reluctant to follow his leadership in anything.
The so-called Old Guard in the Senate, made up of men like Mark Smith of Arizona, Senators
Martin and Swanson of Virginia, Ollie James of Kentucky, John Sharp Williams of Mississippi,
Joe Robinson of Arkansas, Billy Hughes of New Jersey, Senator Culberson of Texas, Senator Simmons
of North Carolina, and Senator Smith of Maryland, contrary to every prophecy and prediction
made by their enemies, stood with the President through every fight in the finest and handsomest
way, never deserting his leadership for a moment. Often he would say to me when we were discussing
the senatorial situation: "My head is with the progressives in the Democratic party, but my
heart, because of the way they stood by me, is with the so-called Old Guard in the Senate.
They stand without hitching." He knew that, while Roger Sullivan was a conservative, he could
be relied upon in every emergency to back him up even to the point of sacrifice. What President
Wilson wanted more than anything else, as he often said, was a team that would work with him.
Sullivan was just this type of man, and beyond everything else his loyalty had been tested
and could be relied upon in every emergency.

In the light of these circumstances, the President decided finally to throw his hat in the
ring in favour of the boss of Illinois for the United States senatorship. The letter advocating
Sullivan's election was dictated and signed by the President, and is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
    WASHINGTON
      October 12, 1914.

    MY DEAR MR. RANEY:

    I have read with the greatest interest the account you were kind
    enough to send  me of the Illinois Democratic State Convention. It is
    full of fine promise for  the party; for it shows all the elements of
    the party heartily drawing together  for a successful campaign; and
    with this union success is sure to come.

    You call my attention to the fact that some Democrats are urging
    voters to cast  their ballots for the Progressive candidate for the
    Senate of the United States  rather than for the nominee of the
    Democratic primaries. You ask me if I approve  of this. I do not. I
    have held myself very strictly to the principle that as a  party man I
    am bound by the free choice of the people at the polls. I have  always
    stood by the result of the primaries; I shall always do so; and I
    think  it the duty of every Democrat to do so who cares for the
    success and sincerity  of his party. Mr. Sullivan has been selected in
    a fair primary, and therefore he  is entitled to the support of his
    party.

    Sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    HON. HENRY T. RAINEY,
    House of Representatives.

This letter and the contents of it will be a matter of news to Sullivan's friends throughout
the country. Many, doubtless, will inquire why it was not published at the time. The reason
it failed to reach the stage of publication can in no way be attributed to Woodrow Wilson.
He never recalled it and the original is in my files. This may be surprising news to the friends
of the dead leader, Roger Sullivan, but it is only fair to Mr. Wilson to say that he never
hesitated in rushing to the defence of his old friend in the most generous way. He wrote this
letter with the full realization of just how much it might personally injure him with the progressive
thought of the country. The letter, after being written and signed by the President, was held
in reserve by me until Sullivan's friends in Chicago, those in close touch with his affairs
there, felt free to advise its publication. I was directed by them to release it, but the order
for its release was countermanded by one of the advisers close to Sullivan, who telephoned
me that it was thought inadvisable to have the President come into the campaign in Sullivan's
behalf, the reason being that the publication of Wilson's letter might arouse the passionate
antagonism of Theodore Roosevelt, who was about to begin a tour of Illinois in behalf of Sullivan's
opponent. I was advised later that the individual with whom I dealt in this matter and upon
whose direction the letter was withheld from publication had no authority to act for Sullivan
in the matter and that Sullivan and his friends were deeply disappointed at Mr. Wilson's apparent
unwillingness to take up the cudgel for his old friend. Many times I tried to make clear to
Sullivan's friends just what the attitude of the President was, but whether I succeeded I do
not know. The President, secluded in the White House, away from the madding crowd, never realized
the basis of Sullivan's disappointment, for he felt that he had "gone through" for his friend
and had not forgotten for a moment Sullivan's advocacy of him at Baltimore, When the news of
Sullivan's death was brought to him at a time when he, also, was seriously ill, his lips quivered,
great tears stood in his eyes, and turning to Mrs. Wilson, who stood beside his bed, he said:
"Roger Sullivan was a wonderful and devoted friend at Baltimore," and then, turning to me,
he said: "Tumulty, I sincerely hope that you will personally go to Chicago and attend the funeral
and tell Mrs. Sullivan how deeply I grieve over the death of my old friend."

CHAPTER XV

MR. BRYAN ISSUES A CHALLENGE

The contests for the delegates to the National Convention were on in full swing throughout
the various states. In the early contests, particularly in the far western states, like Utah,
South Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana, the Wilson candidacy, according to primary returns,
began to take on the appearance of a real, robust boom. As the critical days of the Convention
approached, evidences of a recession of the favourable tide to Wilson began to manifest themselves,
particularly in the states of Massachusetts and Illinois, both of which swung to Clark, with
New York in the offing quietly favouring Champ Clark. It was clear to the campaign managers
of Wilson that from a psychological standpoint the pivotal states were New Jersey and Ohio;
New Jersey, because ex-Senator Smith had again challenged the leadership of Wilson and had
notified his friends throughout the country that New Jersey could be relied upon to repudiate
its governor in an overwhelming fashion. Smith had made deals and combinations with all the
disgruntled elements of the state, and with powerful financial backing from the so-called interests
in New Jersey and New York and the mighty support of the Hearst newspapers, he was pressing
the New Jersey man closely, until at times it seemed as if he might succeed in at least splitting
the delegation. The friends of the New Jersey man, therefore, realizing the effect upon the
democracy of the country of an adverse verdict in his home state, concentrated all possible
forces at this critical point. In the meantime, and before the actual determination of the
issue in New Jersey, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania swung into the Wilson column, and the Ohio
primaries resulted in a split delegation between Wilson and Harmon, in Harmon's home state.
All eyes were, therefore, intently watching New Jersey. A repudiation would be disastrous,
although the old-timers in the Wilson camp tried to encourage us by saying that even though
New Jersey might turn against its governor, Grover Cleveland, under similar circumstances in
1892, despite the opposition of his home state, had been nominated and elected President. But,
fortunately for us, New Jersey in the handsomest way stood by her favourite son. The news of
New Jersey's endorsement was flashed through the country, and there was jubilation in every
Wilson camp. The day following the New Jersey primaries the New York World, the great Democratic
paper, carried a striking editorial under the caption of "WOODROW WILSON FOR PRESIDENT." The
New Jersey primaries and the Ohio results were great feathers in the caps of the Wilson men,
and with enthusiasm and ardour they followed up this advantage.

As the days for the opening of the Baltimore Convention approached the New Jersey Governor
and his family left Princeton for Sea Girt, a delightful place along the Atlantic seaboard,
where the state of New Jersey had provided for its governor an executive mansion, a charming
cottage, a replica of General Washington's headquarters at Morristown. With us to these headquarters,
to keep vigil as it were over the New Jersey Governor, went a galaxy of newspaper men, representing
the leading papers of the country.

The first, and indeed the most important, situation the candidate was called upon to handle
at Sea Girt as a preliminary to the Convention was his reply to the now famous Bryan-Parker
telegrams, which played so important a part in the deliberations and indeed in the character
of the whole Convention--It will be recalled that Mr. Bryan, who was in attendance at the Republican
Convention at Chicago as a special correspondent, had telegraphed an identic telegram to each
of the Democratic candidates, Messrs. Clark, Underwood, Wilson, and Harmon, as follows:

    Chicago, June, 1912.

    In the interest of harmony, I suggest to the sub-committee of the
    Democratic National Committee the advisability of recommending as
    temporary chairman some progressive acceptable to the leading
    progressive candidates for the Presidential nomination. I take it for
    granted that no committeeman interested in Democratic success would
    desire to offend the members of a convention overwhelmingly
    progressive by naming a reactionary to sound the keynote of the
    campaign.

    Eight members of the sub-committee, however, have, over the protest of
    the remaining eight, agreed upon not only a Reactionary but upon the
    one Democrat who, among those not candidates for the Presidential
    nomination, is, in the eyes of the public, most conspicuously
    identified with the reactionary element of the party.

    I shall be pleased to join you and your friends in opposing his
    selection by the full committee or by the Convention. Kindly answer
    here.

    W. J. BRYAN.

I was on my way from New York to Sea Girt when I read a copy of this telegram in the evening
papers. I believe that I grasped the full significance of this move on the part of Mr. Bryan.
In fact, I became so anxious about it that I left the train before reaching my destination,
in order to say to Governor Wilson over the 'phone how important I thought the message really
was and how cautiously it should be handled. I tried to impress upon him the importance of
the answer he was called upon to make to Mr. Bryan. He calmly informed me that he had not yet
received the telegram and that he would, of course, give me an opportunity to discuss the matter
with him before making his reply.

It was clear that Mr. Bryan, whose influence in the councils of the Democratic party at that
time was very great, was seeking by this method to ascertain from leading Presidential candidates
like Wilson, Underwood, Clark, and Harmon, just how they felt about the efforts of the New
York delegation, led by the Tammany boss, Charlie Murphy, and the conservative element of the
Democratic party in the East, to control the Convention and to give it the most conservative
and standpat appearance by controlling the preliminary organization and nominating Alton B.
Parker as temporary chairman. For many weeks previous to the Convention it had been rumoured
that that was the programme and that the real purpose which lay behind it was to unhorse Bryan
and to end for all time his control and that of the radicals of the West over the affairs of
the Democratic party. It was a recrudescence of the old fight of 1896, between the conservative
East and the radical West--Bryan assuming, of course, the leadership of the radicals of the
West, and Charlie Murphy and his group acting as the spokesmen of the conservative East.

It was clear to me that Bryan anticipated just what replies Underwood, Clark, and Harmon would
make to his inquiry. Whether he was certain of what the New Jersey Governor would say in answer
to his telegram, I never could ascertain. Indeed, many of the New Jersey Governor's supporters
were ungenerous enough to say that behind the inquiry lay a selfish purpose; that Mr. Bryan
took this method to reestablish his leadership and to place himself at the forefront of the
liberal, progressive forces of the Convention.

It is clear, as one looks back upon this incident, that a misstep in the handling of this inquiry
from Mr. Bryan might have been fatal to the New Jersey man's candidacy.

When I arrived at Sea Girt to discuss the matter with Governor Wilson, I was surprised to find
that he had not even read the telegram, although a copy of it lay upon his desk, and when he
did read it and we were discussing it he did not share my view of its great importance. In
attempting to emphasize its importance I experienced one of the most difficult jobs I ever
had in the eleven years I was associated with Woodrow Wilson. In vain I tried to impress upon
him what I believed to be the purpose which lay behind the whole business; that his reply would
determine the question as to whether he was going to line up with the progressive element which
was strong in the West, or whether he would take sides with those of the conservative East,
many of whom were bitterly opposed to him. He finally informed me that he was in touch with
Mr. McCombs, his campaign manager at Baltimore, and that he would not reply to Mr. Bryan's
telegram until he received some word from the former as to what his opinion was in regard to
handling this difficult matter. I left him, after impressing upon him the necessity of early
action, lest our progressive friends both at Baltimore and throughout the country who were
awaiting word from us should be disappointed by his apparent unwillingness to take his position
with the progressives.

The newspaper correspondents at Sea Girt, realizing the importance of the candidate's decision,
industriously kept upon our trail to find out what reply would be made to Mr. Bryan. The direct
wire between Baltimore and Sea Girt was kept busy with inquiries from our friends as to what
attitude we were taking in the matter. While my relations with McCombs at the time were of
the friendliest sort, I feared that the Eastern environment in which he lived, and his attempt
to bring Tammany into camp for the New Jersey Governor, would necessarily play a large part
in influencing his judgment, and I was apprehensive lest Governor Wilson should be too much
inclined to accept Mr. McCombs' final judgment in the matter.

On June 21, 1912, the following telegram came from Mr. McCombs, as the basis of a proposed
reply to Mr. Bryan by the New Jersey Governor:

    Baltimore, June 21, 1912.

    HON. WILLIAM J. BRYAN
    Lincoln, Nebraska.

    I quite agree with you that the temporary chairman of the Convention
    should voice the sentiments of the democracy of the nation which I am
    convinced is distinctly progressive. However, before receiving your
    telegram I had given the following statement for publication in the
    Baltimore Evening Sun: My friends in Baltimore are on the people's
    side in everything that affects the organization of the Convention.
    They are certain not to forget their standards as they have already
    shown. It is not necessary that I should remind them of these
    standards from New Jersey and I have neither the right nor the desire
    to direct the organization of a convention of which I am not even a
    member.

    (signed) MCCOMBS

I was greatly disappointed, of course, at the character of reply suggested by McCombs and argued
with the Governor at length on what I considered would be the disastrous effects of making
a reply such as the one contained in the above telegram. Clearly, Mr. McCombs' suggested reply
was a rebuke to Mr. Bryan and a bid for the Eastern vote in the convention. Of course, Governor
Wilson was most reluctant to disregard the advice of McCombs. He felt that he (McCombs) was
"on the job" at Baltimore and more intimately in touch with the situation than he himself could
be at Sea Girt. After a long discussion of the matter, the proposed reply prepared by McCombs
was ignored and the following telegram was prepared and sent by Woodrow Wilson:

    W. J. BRYAN, Chicago:

   You are quite right. Before hearing of your message I clearly stated my
    position in answer to a question from the Baltimore Evening Sun. The
    Baltimore Convention is to be a convention of Progressives, of men who
    are progressive in principle and by conviction. It must, if it is not
    to be put in a wrong light before the country, express its convictions
    in its organization and in its choice of the men who are to speak for
    it. You are to be a member of the Convention and are entirely within
    your rights in doing everything within your power to bring that result
    about. No one will doubt where my sympathies lie and you will, I am
    sure, find my friends in the Convention acting upon clear conviction
    and always in the interest of the people's cause. I am happy in the
    confidence that they need no suggestion from me.

    (Signed) WOODROW WILSON.

This reply, more than any other single thing, changed the whole attitude and temper of the
Convention toward Woodrow Wilson. The progressive forces in it were seeking leadership and
Mr. Bryan, by his inquiry, had provided an opportunity, of which. Mr. Wilson took full advantage.

An interesting incident occurred in connection with this affair. Being unable to induce the
Governor quickly to reply to Mr. Bryan, and realizing that our friends at Baltimore would expect
him to agree with Mr. Bryan, and thus take his place with the progressive element in the Convention,
I was firmly convinced that he would at the end be found in agreement with Mr. Bryan. I, therefore,
took the liberty of saying to the newspaper men in our group--those who were favourably disposed
to us--that when Mr. Wilson did reply to Mr. Bryan he would be found in harmony with the Commoner's
ideas. This unofficial tip was immediately conveyed to Baltimore and our friends, after returning
from the Convention, told me how this piece of inspired information had put heart in our men,
and that on a bulletin board before the Baltimore Sun offices there was posted the announcement
"WILSON AGREES WITH BRYAN" and before it hundreds of Wilson men gathered, cheering the message
of the New Jersey Governor.

The reply of the New Jersey Governor was prepared by him while he was seated on the side of
a little bed in one of the rooms of the Sea Girt cottage. He looked at me intently, holding
a pad and pencil in his hands, and then wrote these significant words to Mr. Bryan: "You are
right."

I have often wondered what effect on the Convention McCombs' proposed reply, which contained
a rebuke to Mr. Bryan, would have had. From that time on Mr. Bryan was the devoted friend of
the New Jersey Governor. Mr. Wilson's reply had convinced the Nebraskan that the Governor was
not afraid to accept the issue and that he was in favour of supporting a preliminary organization
that was to be progressive both in principle and by conviction.

McCombs was obsessed with the idea that the New York delegation must be won; that everything
else was negligible compared with that. Therefore he wished Mr. Wilson in his reply to say
something that would be considered by the New York delegation as a public rebuke to Mr. Bryan.
I afterward learned that McCombs, nervous, incapable of standing the strain and excitement
of the Convention, had retired to a friend's house at Baltimore where, after the Woodrow Wilson
telegram to William Jennings Bryan, he was found in a room, lying across a bed, crying miserably.
To the inquiries of his friends as to what was the matter with him McCombs replied, weeping,
that the Governor had spoiled everything by his telegram to Bryan; that had the Governor followed
his [McCombs'] advice, he could have been nominated.

The direct wire between the Sea Girt cottage and the Wilson headquarters at Baltimore was kept
busy from early morning until late at night. The telephone exchange in the cottage was so arranged
that a branch telephone was kept in the little room under the stairway, which constituted a
sort of listening post, which permitted me, in accordance with the suggestion of the Governor
himself, to listen in on conversations, not by way of eavesdropping, but in order that we might
intelligently confer after each conversation on the various matters that might have to be decided
upon with reference to the organization of the convention. Many of the momentous questions
having to do with the conduct of the Convention were discussed and settled over this 'phone.
The most frequent users of the 'phone during these days were Colonel Bryan and Mr. McCombs,
our campaign manager. During the opening days of the Convention I made it my business to keep
in close touch with Baltimore both by conversations over the 'phone with the active managers
of the Wilson boom and by carefully reading each morning the news items appearing in the New
York Times, New York World, and the Baltimore Sun, this last-named paper being one of the leading
advocates of the Wilson candidacy in the country.

I was personally, and in some cases intimately, acquainted with the special writers on these
great journals and knew from previous contact with them that they were on the "inside" of the
situation at Baltimore, and in this way much information was gleaned which proved helpful in
keeping us in touch with the many happenings at the Convention.

Having successfully passed through the Bryan-Parker crisis, we decided upon a kind of strategy
that would win to our side the various progressive elements in the Convention. In line with
this idea, we suggested to our managers at Baltimore the advisability of putting forward the
name of Ollie M. James of Kentucky for permanent chairman of the Convention. While he was a
staunch Clark man and a devoted follower of Mr. Bryan, we knew he could be relied upon to give
us a fair deal as the presiding officer of the Convention. There was another reason, too. Away
off in Sea Girt we gathered the impression that the sober second thought of the Convention
favoured his selection and that even though we might fail in our attempt to nominate him for
this office, our efforts at least in this regard would give the impression to those who looked
with favour upon Wilson as their second choice. Another reason was this: We were not afraid
to trust our cause to a Clark man, and Ollie James for many years had been the idol of convention
crowds. When, upon the conclusion of the Bryan-Parker episode, Mr. Bryan telephoned Sea Girt
to discuss with the Governor the matter of the chairmanship, he was greatly surprised and pleased
to have the Governor say, in the most hearty way that, upon canvassing the whole situation,
he felt it would be an admirable and just thing to select Ollie James of Kentucky. Mr. Bryan
said: "But, Governor Wilson, Mr. James is in the Convention as a Clark man." "It does not matter,"
was the Governor's reply. "He is our kind of a fellow, and I am sure my friends can rely upon
him to treat our cause well." From Mr. Bryan's subsequent conversations over the telephone
it clearly appeared that he was delighted at the suggestion of his own intimate friend, and
it was plain that he was being convinced from moves of this kind by the New Jersey Governor
that Woodrow Wilson was willing to stand or fall with him in attempting to organize the Convention
along progressive lines.

Years after the Convention the senator from Kentucky, who became my closest and dearest friend,
and who distinguished himself as a member of the Senate, and who was one of the staunchest
defenders of the President and the Administration, told me of the wisdom which he thought lay
behind the suggestion of himself for the chairmanship; that we, at Sea Girt, rightly sensed
the situation and that the suggestion of his name had done more than anything else to convince
the men in the Convention of the genuine character of the New Jersey Governor's progressiveness.
We felt that strategic moves of this kind appealed to the progressive thought in the Convention
and went far to remove the strange impression many of the delegates had that Wilson was a rank
conservative. It was plainly perceptible that these acts were quickly turning the progressives
in the Convention toward our candidate.

In following these suggestions, we were, in fact, acting independently of the New Jersey Governor's
advisers at Baltimore. It was plain to be seen that the battle at Baltimore would finally simmer
down to a contest between the reactionaries and the progressives, and we decided at Sea Girt
that in every move that was to be made our purpose should be to win the progressive support
in the Convention. McCombs was at no time found in harmony with this action, his principal
activities at Baltimore being given over to an attempt to win for the New Jersey Governor the
support of the conservatives of the East, and, particularly, New York, whose seventy- six votes
he thought the great prize of the Convention.

CHAPTER XVI

THE BALTIMORE CONVENTION

At Sea Girt we kept in close touch with our friends at Baltimore, so that after each ballot
the New Jersey candidate was apprised of the result. During the trying days and nights of the
Convention the only eager and anxious ones in the family group, besides myself, were Mrs. Wilson
and the Wilson girls. The candidate himself indeed seemed to take only perfunctory interest
in what was happening at Baltimore. He never allowed a single ballot or the changes those ballots
reflected to ruffle or disturb him. Never before was the equable disposition of the man better
manifested than during these trying days. Only once did he show evidences of irritation. It
was upon the receipt of word from Baltimore, carried through the daily press, that his manager
Mr. McCombs was indulging in patronage deals to secure blocks of delegates. Upon considering
this news he immediately issued a public statement saying that no one was authorized to make
any offer of a Cabinet post for him and that those who had done so were acting without authority
from him. This caused a flurry in the ranks of our friends in Baltimore and the statement was
the subject of heated discussion between the Governor and Mr. McCombs over the telephone. Of
course, I did not hear what was said at the other end of the wire, but I remember that the
Governor said: "I am sorry, McCombs, but my statement must stand as I have issued it. There
must be no conditions whatever attached to the nomination." And there the conversation ended.
While this colloquy took place I was seated just outside of the telephone booth. When the Governor
came out he told me of the talk he had had with McCombs, and that their principal discussion
was the attempt by McCombs and his friends at Baltimore to exact from him a promise that in
case of his nomination William Jennings Bryan should not be named for the post of Secretary
of State; that a great deal in the way of delegates' votes from the Eastern states depended
upon his giving this promise. The Governor then said to me: "I will not bargain for this office.
It would be foolish for me at this time to decide upon a Cabinet officer, and it would be outrageous
to eliminate anybody from consideration now, particularly Mr. Bryan, who has rendered such
fine service to the party in all seasons."

The candidacy of the New Jersey Governor gained with each ballot--only slightly, however--but
he was the only candidate who showed an increased vote at each stage of the Convention proceedings.
The critical period was reached on Thursday night. In the early afternoon we had received intimations
from Baltimore that on that night the New York delegation would throw its support to Champ
Clark, and our friends at Baltimore were afraid that if this purpose was carried out it would
result in a stampede to Clark. We discussed the possibilities of the situation that night after
dinner, but up to ten o'clock, when the Governor retired for the night, New York was still
voting for Harmon. I left the Sea Girt cottage and went out to the newspaper men's tent to
await word from Baltimore. The telegrapher in charge of the Associated Press wire was a devoted
friend and admirer of the New Jersey candidate. There was no one in the tent but the telegrapher
and myself. Everything was quiet. Suddenly the telegraph instrument began to register. The
operator looked up from the instrument, and I could tell from his expression that something
big was coming. He took his pad and quickly began to record the message. In a tone of voice
that indicated its seriousness, he read to me the following message: "New York casts its seventy-six
votes for Champ Clark. Great demonstration on." And then the instrument stopped recording.
It looked as if the "jig was up." Frankly, I almost collapsed at the news. I had been up for
many nights and had had only a few hours' sleep. I left the tent, almost in despair, about
eleven o'clock, and returned to the Sea Girt cottage, preparatory to going to my home at Avon,
New Jersey. As I was leaving the cottage the Governor appeared at one of the upper windows,
clad in his pajamas, and looking at me in the most serious way, said: "Tumulty, is there any
news from Baltimore?" I replied: "Nothing new, Governor." When we were breakfasting together
the next morning, he laughingly said to me: "You thought you could fool me last night when
I asked if there was any word from Baltimore; but I could tell from the serious expression
on your face that something had gone wrong." This was about the first evidence of real interest
he had shown in the Baltimore proceedings.

As will be recalled, the thing that prevented Champ Clark from gathering the full benefit which
would have come to him from the casting of the New York vote in his favour was a question by
"Alfalfa Bill" Murray, a delegate from Oklahoma. He said: "Is this convention going to surrender
its leadership to the Tammany Tiger?" This stemmed the tide toward Mr. Clark, and changed the
whole face of the Convention.

It was evident that on Friday night the deadlock stage of the Convention had been finally reached.
The Wilson vote had risen to 354, and there remained without perceptible change. It began to
look as if the candidacy of the New Jersey Governor had reached its full strength. The frantic
efforts of the Wilson men to win additional votes were unavailing. Indeed, Wilson's case appeared
to be hopeless. On Saturday morning, McCombs telephoned Sea Girt and asked for the Governor.
The Governor took up the 'phone and for a long time listened intently to what was being said
at the other end. I afterward learned that McCombs had conveyed word to the Governor that his
case was hopeless and that it was useless to continue the fight, and asked for instructions.
Whereupon, the following conversation took place in my presence: "So, McCombs, you feel it
is hopeless to make further endeavours?" When McCombs asked the Governor if he would instruct
his friends to support Mr. Underwood, Mr. Wilson said: "No, that would not be fair. I ought
not to try to influence my friends in behalf of another candidate. They have been mighty loyal
and kind to me. Please say to them how greatly I appreciate their generous support and that
they are now free to support any candidate they choose."

In the room at the time of this conversation between McCombs and the New Jersey Governor sat
Mrs. Wilson and myself. When the Governor said to McCombs, "So you think it is hopeless?" great
tears stood in the eyes of Mrs. Wilson, and as the Governor put down the telephone, she walked
over to him and in the most tender way put her arms around his neck, saying:

"My dear Woodrow, I am sorry, indeed, that you have failed." Looking at her, with a smile that
carried no evidence of the disappointment or chagrin he felt at the news he had just received,
he said: "My dear, of course I am disappointed, but we must not complain. We must be sportsmen.
After all, it is God's will, and I feel that a great load has been lifted from my shoulders."
With a smile he remarked that this failure would make it possible for them, when his term as
Governor of New Jersey was completed, to go for a vacation to the English Lake country--a region
loved by them both, where they had previously spent happy summers. Turning to me, he asked
for a pencil and pad and informed me that he would prepare a message of congratulation to Champ
Clark, saying as he left the room: "Champ Clark will be nominated and I will give you the message
in a few minutes."

I afterward learned that McCombs was about to release the delegates when Roger Sullivan, who
had been informed of McCombs' message to the New Jersey Governor, rushed over to McCombs and
said to him, "Damn you, don't you do that. Sit steady in the boat."

This is the true story of the occurrence so strangely distorted by Mr. McCombs in the book
he left for publication after his death, wherein he would make it appear that Governor Wilson
had got in a panic and tried to withdraw from the race; whereas the panic was all in the troubled
breast of Mr. McCombs, a physically frail, morally timid person, constitutionally unfit for
the task of conducting such a fight as was being waged in Baltimore. More sturdy friends of
Governor Wilson at the Convention were busy trying to brace up the halting manager and persuade
him to continue the fight, even against the desperate odds that faced them. But for these stronger
natures, among whom were old Roger Sullivan of Illinois and W. G. McAdoo, the battle would
have been lost.

The message of congratulation to Champ Clark was prepared and ready to be put on the wire for
transmission to him when the Baltimore Convention assembled again on Saturday, June 29, 1912.
I had argued with the Governor that despite what McCombs had said to him over the 'phone on
the previous day I felt that there was still a great deal of latent strength in the Wilson
forces in the Convention which was ready to jump into action as soon as it appeared that Champ
Clark's case was hopeless. The first ballot on Saturday gave weight to my view, for upon that
ballot Wilson gained fifteen or twenty votes, which injected new hope into our forces in the
Convention. From that time on Wilson steadily moved forward, and then came Bryan's resolutions,
opposing any candidate who received the support of the "privilege-hunting" class, and attempting
the expulsion of a certain Eastern group from the Convention. Pandemonium reigned in the Convention
Hall, but the vote upon the resolutions themselves showed the temper of the delegates. This
made the Clark nomination hopeless. Bryan's role as an exponent of outraged public opinion
and as a master of great conventions was superbly played. When he finally threw his tremendous
influence to Wilson, the struggle was over. Indiana jumped to Wilson, then Illinois, and the
fight was won. Wilson received the necessary two-third vote and was proclaimed the candidate. Fortunately
have not yet jaws in all our mouths have not tied all our hands can still raise an arm to point
out, still have breath in our hearts to say "that." They are among us, I know. This great
revolution has not arrived to its August peak, has not reached the highest point of justice: it
has been until now a step only the first step. Do we stop timidly afraid of our own work? No:
we are in a horrible middle: half of this path of thorns is the greatest of dangers. Stop at
this half is falling, it's worse to go back, it's worse than not having begun. There to choose between
the two extremes: either move on, or curse the hour that we were born. (Loud and boisterous applause.)

Lazarus
noted, while uttering these paragraphs, that among the thousands of audience figures, and there
in the dark of a corner, had a face whose eyes shone the enthusiasm
and anxiety.

The thin, bony hands of one person clapping, sounding like two stones concave. He looked steadily
as he spoke, and he found them not very possessed his business and very strong in its position
on the audience, would have disturbed beyond repair, farewell to the speech. The person so I watched
and applauded him was his uncle. What was incomprehensible, and the young man had given much
thought to such a thing, if loving and fiery statements that did not distract the subject was
long after completion his speech.

Another spoke after him, and finally, after many speeches, the crowd started to march. Cabanillas
Alfonso and went into the street, carried by large groups that broke
down the mass of people.

Was agitated that night around Madrid, and is positive that the authority usually quite messy
and weak, took some precautions. In the remaining Fontana At dawn the Doctrino, Pinilla, Lobo,
Lazarus and others.

- Well you have done! - I said .-- The Lazarus Doctrino what I expected.

Tonight our party acquires the word you with a terrible force. Don Elijah, you can be proud of his
nephew.

- Yes I am - Coletilla said smiling as the manner of the jackals and foxes, whom Nature has been a
contraction in the face evil .-- Yes, I am: I did not think this guy was so clever that, to
know, since I had done everything possible to that ....

Lazarus began to see dark at this intrusion of his uncle in the sessions of the exalted. Crossed
her mind a suspicion horrible. When he went to the house he remembered the charge that on the
night of his expulsion he had directed in the same place; recalled dialogue with his uncle
had been in prison, recalled every word, expression the more blind fanaticism, and the more
I pondered and remembered, unless your uncle could be explained allowed to be called great liberal.
Although some vague suspicions tormented him, no saw the great divide in all its horror and
depth, not presaged the movement to which he had given impetus to his word, and did not include
the trick dark, bloody collision of Fontana heads of the dazed and troubled minds of some youngsters,
had his gun more terrible.

But on arriving at the house expecting a surprise that Lazarus had to make him forget his speech,
his uncle and to the Trevi Fountain. As you enter, and close the day, he met Dona Paz very
agitated, Salome around the house with light, and at two very angry and intemperate, they could
not help to laugh in spite of his state of mind.

- Thank God it
is you!

We are alone - he said shaking the oldest.

- What is it, ladies?

- Fear that someone will enter through these roofs.

- How, who is going to dare?

- Do not you know what happened, gentleman? - .-- That Clarita Paz
said .... What horror, what perversion!

...

- How soon is the scaffold? - Salome said .-- A man, a man entered
here this girl, a seductive!

And we so blind that we collected!

- Oh, my God! What a horrible attack!

- And when did this man? "- Asked, realizing that they had discovered the entrance Bozmediano.

- On Sunday, that evening we were in the procession.

- And she, where
is it? - Asked the young man, believing that it was time to clarify
that case.

- How horrible!

And you wonder where is he?

We've thrown, we have driven them - Peace said, venganzasatisfecha
with expression of consent .-- Had we such a monster here?

- What
degradation!

And in this house! - Salome said, putting both hands over his face .-- Lord What atonement
is this?

What sin have we committed?

- Where is?

- What is where? What do I know? We've thrown.

- But where has it gone?

- What do I know? Go into the street, where always have been. Oh! She will be gone very happy
there.

- If such people are born on the street - said Salome, with a gesture
of disgust .-- What a shame!

- "But you have thrown this ...?

Where the poor thing has to go? - Asked Lazarus, who, in spite of
his grievance, he could not see it easy to insult and maltreatment
in that way to be helpless.

- How do I know where he went?

To hell! - Maria de la Paz said, laughing.

- Lord, is it possible
that so much outrage in the world?

Oh! ...-- Day ideas murmured Salome, raising his hands to heaven in declamatory attitude.

Before that he did Lazarus to meet so great a novelty, what count spent that night at the home of the
three ladies. Tagline saying it was out back to within three days, having to deal out a certain
matter, and they were discussing this rare determination, where an event happened which made
for the definitive expulsion of the orphan.

CHAPTER XXXV

# The bonnet of the Nuncio. #

Clerical tailoring was very handy and flourishing industry in the last century. There were many
clergy, and also a large crop in despair, people all wearing neatly and coquetry. The that this
industry is devoted to obtained large profits, and this was due to be dedicated to exploit many
artisans of both sexes, educated at first in tailoring profane.

In this century the industry in question was very listless, do not know if it was clergy or less
because there were more tailors. On the fifth floor of the house of Roque Tócame located on the
streets of Bethlehem, had its nest two sisters, sastras sacred clothes, which had been very
much at least. In his youth had sewn many cloak and surplices to canons Toledo and the priests of
the court, but at the time of our history, for reasons appropriate social record is not only
enshrined his miserable existence to mend Piarist some dark green greatcoat or some poor and
shabby curate. Made figs pears to a cap for a palace chaplain or to the prosecutor of the Rota,
and nothing more. They were very poor, but bear with patience the misfortune without uttering
a complaint. Only one of them said from time to time with a sigh, while stirring the few rags
His holy black industry: "There is no religion."

They had another friend that Abbe Don Gil Carrascosa, which, as it
has come to our notice, had in his time bickering with some of them.

The visits, were provided some work and used to give a get-together, telling them things Madrid. But
if Remolinos (that was his name) had no more than a friend, however they had an enemy ruthless, bloodthirsty,
ferocious. This enemy was another seamstress, who lived through wall and that the natural divergence
of views among those involved to the same industry had declared war to the death. To torment,
in addition to their insults and nicknames, had a cat, which we believe was born specifically
to be entered in the room with two sisters and do there few inconveniences
can cause the cat to an enemy.

Donna also had the Rosalia trade lover, who visited her every night, accompanied by a guitar
and it was this lover a commission be created through hell to sing and play all night in that
house and not let sleep at two sacred clothing tailors.

Doña Rosalia had more work than its neighbors those swirls (or the swirls, as generally called), and
also did what a woman can do to remove them jealous rivals the little
they had.

It happened that a page of the Papal, old parishioner Dona Rosalia and very good color fan,
dared to aspire to not know that honest trusts; Lady peaks, peaks the page, and the next day,
bringing the bonnet of the Nuncio to you have a darn, instead of giving Dona Rosalia handed it to the
two sisters.

When Dona Rosalia knew the bonnet of the Nunciature was in the hands of rivals, we seemed that
he had received the largest offense: broke relations with the Roman Curia, said thousand insults
the page, charged to your cat some dirty commission nearly two neighboring (Commission that met
with great punctuality animal), came to the door of the two unhappy and told them a thousand
wonderful things, they did utter to the older of the two in his lament customary: "There is no
religion."

But Rosalia sought a terrible revenge. How? I would greatly amazed to see enter the abbe an
unknown military. The house was arranged so that, approaching the door As heard in the rooms, there
is talk.

We all know the purpose of the visit Bozmediano to the swirl. Doña Rosalia guessed it too,
when, standing in wait, saw him pass to the next house through a
door leading into the attic convicted former.

He stopped and waited.

He realized that there was the sly affair, and knew that finding
a happy medium for revenge.

Saw Bozmediano come and go, and figuring that this fraudulent entry
be repeated, wait a repeat, to go immediately, and while the youth
was within, adjacent to the house to report it.

The young man would be caught, there would be a scandal, investigations would be made, where to
declare it would come, and catatonic to the Swirling way to jail
as punishment for his complicity in that crime escalation and breach
of trust.

Waited a day, two, three, until seeing that the scene is not repeated,
resolved at its high discretion to report it at once to the family
concerned, lest slowing, could be doubted.

Thought and deed. Stood a shawl, came down, entered the house of the Porrenos, touched, they opened,
and faced with the majestic face of Our Lady of Peace Jesus, that
in a bad mood asked

- What do you want?

- Came to see the master
of this house to tell you one thing - entering said Rosalie.

- What
disrespect! - Thought Lady of Peace, enter rondón seeing .-- Salome,
a light.

Dusk, and the dark lady could not see clearly the face of the visit. Salome brought a lamp into
the room where the two presented themselves.

- What is offered to you? - Asked Paz, measuring with a look at the body of Dona Rosalia.

- Who is the master of this house?

- I am - a little alarmed Paz said the mystery that seemed to wrap
this unexpected visit.

- Well, I come to tell it to you ... Do not
you know what happens?

- What? - Salome said, believing that sank
the ceiling.

- Do not be frightened, ma'am, because after all, knowing
it, you can prevent back to happen.

- By God, explain to you, madam
- Peace said in a tone of impatience and superiority.

- As you must
know - said Dona Rosalia mystery, - that this house ... Well ... les
I will say to you: I live in the house next door on the fourth floor,
and I am a seamstress, with apologies you, and I sew all the clothes
from the house of Mr. Nuncio of the Pope and the Patriarch of the
Indies to sew all the archbishopric of Toledo, and sometimes I sew
to the chapel of the palace.

This relationship of the upper echelons needle serving Dona Rosalia, gave some importance the
eyes of Our Lady of Peace Jesus.

- I live up there and I've seen ... But you have not fallen into it?

- What?

- For the man who has come here.

- What man?

What say? - Exclaimed to a two ruins in the tone of one who feels
pop a volcano.

- Well, I came to warn you to avoid that happen again.

Is the case in the attic of the house where I live there is a small
door facing the attic of this house.

The face you put the Porrenos not fit into any description.

- Yes - continued sastra - and a young soldier went through that door one afternoon that I speak;
got here ... I malice, when he saw a young lady spoken here.

- But,
madame - Peace said, standing up - are you sure what it says?

A man come here ... here in this house!

- Yes, Madam, I have observed. She slipped in through the room of a nearby ... friends of mine.
I I've seen.

- When?

Salome said taking a breath, because he lacked the breath.

- On Sunday afternoon.

- What time?

- At about five o'clock.

- When we were in the procession! What a scandal!

That girl shameless ... that little boy .... Well I thought so myself
- Paz said, her hands placed on his head and paced the room like a
maniac.

- Ay! no good at these things ... I decompose! - Salome stammered,
leaning over the couch with samples experiencing a dizzy spell.

-
But, ladies, do not be alarmed you - Mrs. Rosalie said, trying to
soothe the ladies .-- Do you a daughter?

- No, Madam, we have no
daughter - responded with great anger Lady of Peace - is a girl, a
crazy compassion admit here, waiting to be corrected, but ... I thought
so myself.

What a gem! See what I said? My God, why admit here to such a slut?

- Lady - Salome said, clutching his stomach and remaking of their
faint .-- Tell you you clarify that.

Ay! It's too horrible.

We are not accustomed to these things, and such facts confuse us,
and I, especially, I can not bear ....

- I do not doubt you.

The young man broke into the house on Sunday afternoon, and was here an hour. Find it out yourselves
and see how true.

- If it sounds incredible - Peace said, sitting down again. This house, this honorable house
... And how there is that door? How is it possible ...?

- There is a very old, only that it was doomed. If you want to see it can go up to the attic, and
looking good, will find it.

- But he, that monster, where do you could get?

- The so-door - continued Dona Rosalia - gives the room a few seamstresses friends of mine. The
poor things not only to sew sacristanes and village priests and sew wrong. They want to put on
airs, and say stitching to the cathedral of Segovia, but is a lie. Do not believe you.

- And he, entered the room?

- Yes: it is a military man, tall, handsome.

- Jesus, how awful! I can not hear it - cried Salome, stretching, with samples of a second attack.
I gave money to these women - continued Dona Rosalia - because they are very poor: they gain nothing.
As they do so badly ... Do not sew more than the curate of St. Martin.

- You must make a determination, peace, a prompt determination - Salome said returning itself
.-- Because if not, the honor of the house is committed .-- Lady - she added, turning to Dona
Rosalia - do not miss you this sorrow, we are not accustomed to shocks
of this kind.

We, by our birth, our education and our religion, we have always above all these miseries. Ay!
we have taken the blame for our over- charity. Just imagine that
we welcomed without fear to a snake in our house, although we reports
of his bad behavior, the belief that we welcomed amend. But you see
what so evil souls! What society! What a century! Well I thought so
myself, in spite of what he said my niece, who is a saint, and he
insisted, guided by his good heart, that girl was going to correct.
How can correct such a monster? What a shame, what contempt! Ay! I'm
no good for these cases, I get confused, I break down and I can not
make any determination.

- Yes, we must make a decision - said with
great bitterness Lady of Peace .-- If not, what going to be for the
honor of our house? Must be put immediately to the front door to the
girl, without consulting Don Elias. He has to approve it, and above
all, if not approval. Did not have dared to say this morning that
his nephew be amended? If you are a looking some horrors! ... What
century do customs! Until ...!

- Do what you want, Peace - Salome
said, affecting a certain gentleness and prostration, she think very
prettily in his nervous body .-- Do what you want, regardless of what
may opinion that Mr. Butler, he has nothing to instruct here. Goodbye
to that girl, that go with his kind. Oh! I do not remember what this
woman has had.

Even the dog that did not bark, the melancholy Batilo,
was appalled. He had planted Dona Rosalia front, and looked, with
the concerned attention of a dog, good color seamstress who had brought
desolation to the house.

- Lady - Peace said with a little courtesy
- we thank you with notice given to us, showing, naturally, his zeal
and interest for the honor of our house.

    J. P. TUMULTY,
      Washington.

    Some better. Operation doubtful. Question delayed a few days.

    W. F. M.

Then came the following cable to the President from Col. E. M. House:

    Paris, June 12, 1913.

    THE PRESIDENT
      Washington.

    Damon [code name for McCombs] requests me to say that after he sees
    present incumbent tomorrow he will cable you. He is much improved.

    E. M. HOUSE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Paris, June 18, 1913.

    JOS. P. TUMULTY,
      Washington.

    Am sending conclusive message through usual channel so you get it
    tomorrow morning. This confirms message today which was incomplete.
    Hope everything will be o. k.

    Mc.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Paris, July 6, 1913.

    J. P. TUMULTY,
    Washington.

    Accept if no previous arrangement cable at once care Monroe Banquier
    Paris.

    W.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Paris, July 7, 1913.

    TUMULTY,
      Washington.

    Better wait a little or leave out for another strictly confidential.

    W.

By this last message McCombs meant that the President had better wait a little for him to make
up his mind, or to select another for the French post, which the President refused to do.

The kindest explanation of Mr. McCombs' distorted and entirely untruthful story is that his
sensitive mind had brooded so long on fancied injuries that he had come to believe that what
he deposed was true. He was sensitive to a pathological degree, jealous, suspicious of everybody,
and consumed with ambition to appear as the sole maker of President Wilson politically. He
is dead, and it would have been pleasanter to keep silent about him. I should have remained
silent had he not left his embittered manuscript in the hands of friends, with directions to
publish it after his death, when those whom he attacks in its various chapters would feel a
hesitancy about challenging his statements and attempting in any way to asperse his memory.
That he was abnormal was known to all who came into intimate contact with him during the campaign
and after. His suspicions and spites manifested themselves in ways so small that he would have
been laughable had he not been pitiable. The simple fact is that both the nomination and the
election of Governor Wilson were in spite of Mr. McCombs, not because of him. Mr. McCombs was
ill during most of the campaign, which had to be directed by the assistant chairman, Mr. McAdoo,
with all possible embarrassing interference from the chairman's sick room.

The full force of McCombs' petty spite, malice, and jealousy was expended upon Mr. William
G. McAdoo of New York, who at the time had established a high reputation for his courage and
intrepidity in building the famous Manhattan and Hudson tunnels. Mr. McAdoo, in the early days
of Woodrow Wilson's candidacy, took his place at the fore-front of the Wilson forces. At the
time of his espousal of the Wilson cause he was the only leader in the New York financial world
ready and courageous enough to take up the cudgels for Mr. Wilson. His influence thrown to
the Wilson side strengthened the Wilson cause in every part of the country. Every intimation
that reached McCombs during the campaign that Mr. McAdoo, as vice-chairman of the National
Committee, was engaged in doing this or that thing in connection with his duties as vice-chairman,
was always calculated to stir anew the fires of envy and jealousy which seemed always burning
in the breast of McCombs.

I was in close touch with Mr. Wilson and all the phases of his campaign at the time, and on
several occasions was asked to act as mediator in the differences between Mr. McAdoo and Mr.
McCombs, and I am, therefore, in a position calmly to analyze and assess the reasons for McCombs'
implacable hatred of Mr. McAdoo. I found that the motives which actuated McCombs were of the
pettiest and meanest sort. At their base lay the realization that Mr. McAdoo had, by his gallant
and helpful support of Mr. Wilson, won his admiration and deep respect, and now everything
must be done by McCombs and his friends to destroy Mr. McAdoo in the estimation of the Democratic
candidate for the Presidency. In the efforts put forth by McCombs and his friends to destroy
Mr. Wilson's high opinion of Mr. McAdoo every contemptible and underhanded method was resorted
to. Mr. McAdoo reacted to these unfair attacks in the most kindly and magnanimous way. Never
for a single moment did he allow the McCombs campaign against him to stand in the way of Woodrow
Wilson's advancement to the Presidency.

During the whole time that Mr. McCombs was engaged in his vendetta, Mr. McAdoo was generous,
gallant, big, and forgiving, even suggesting to the Democratic candidate, in my presence, that
it might be wiser for him (McAdoo) to withdraw from the campaign, so that "things at headquarters
might run easier and more smoothly." Mr. Wilson would not by any act of his permit the sniping
methods of McCombs to be rewarded in the withdrawal of McAdoo from his campaign.

After the election and when it was certain that McAdoo was being seriously considered for the
post of Secretary of the Treasury, McCombs' jealousy began to exert itself in the most venomous
way. He tried to persuade Mr. Wilson that the selection of Mr. McAdoo for the post of Secretary
of the Treasury would be too much a recognition of the Wall Street point of view, and would
be considered a repudiation of McCombs' leadership in the National Committee.

The campaign of McCombs to prevent the nomination of Mr. McAdoo for a post in the Cabinet failed
utterly. His poison brigade then gathered at the Shoreham Hotel in Washington on the day of
the Inauguration and, attempting to reform their broken lines, now sought to prevent his confirmation
at the hands of the Senate. Every agency of opposition that McCombs could invoke to accomplish
this purpose was put into action, but like all his efforts against Mr. McAdoo they met with
failure. Mr. McAdoo was confirmed and took his place as Secretary of the Treasury, where his
constructive genius in matters of finance was soon brought into play, and under his magnificent
leadership the foundation stones of the Federal Reserve system were laid, the fruitage of which
is now being realized in every business throughout the country.

Frequent conferences were held at Princeton with reference to the selection of the President's
Cabinet, and in these conferences Colonel House and I participated. At a luncheon at the Sterling
Hotel at Trenton Mr. Bryan was offered the post of Secretary of State.

On the first of March the post of Secretary of War was still open. It had been offered to Mr.
A. Mitchell Palmer of Pennsylvania and had been declined by him for an unusual reason. The
President requested Mr. Palmer to meet him at Colonel House's apartment in New York. When the
President tendered him the position of Secretary of War, Mr. Palmer frankly told the President
that he was a Quaker and that the tenets of his religion prevented his acceptance of any position
having to do with the conduct of war. The President tried to overcome these scruples, but his
efforts were unavailing. The President then telephoned me and informed me of Palmer's declination
and asked if I had any suggestion regarding the vacancy in his Cabinet. I told him that I was
anxious to see a New Jersey man occupy a place at his Cabinet table, and we discussed the various
possibilities over the 'phone, but without reaching any definite conclusion. I informed the
President that I would suggest the name of someone within a few hours. I then went to the library
in my home in New Jersey and in looking over the Lawyers' Diary I ran across the name of Lindley
Garrison, who at the time was vice-chancellor of the state of New Jersey. Mr. Garrison was
a resident of my home town and although I had only met him casually and had tried a few cases
before him, he had made a deep impression upon me as a high type of equity judge.

I telephoned the President-elect that night and suggested the name of Lindley Garrison, whose
reputation as a distinguished judge of the Chancery Court was known to the President-elect.
He was invited to Trenton the next day and without having the slightest knowledge of the purpose
of this summons, he arrived and was offered the post of Secretary of War in Mr. Wilson's Cabinet,
which he accepted.

CHAPTER XIX

THE INAUGURATION

A presidential inauguration is a picturesque affair even when the weather is stormy, as it
frequently is on the fourth of March in Washington. It is a brilliant affair when the sun shines
bright and the air is balmy, as happened on March 4, 1913, when Woodrow Wilson took the oath
of office at noon, delivered his inaugural address a few minutes later, reviewed the parade
immediately after luncheon, and before nightfall was at his desk in the White House transacting
the business of the Government. To the popular imagination Inauguration Day represents crowds
and hurrahs, brass bands and processions. The hotels, restaurants, and boarding houses of Washington
overflow with people from all parts of the country who have come to "see the show." The pavements,
windows, and housetops along Pennsylvania Avenue from the east front of the Capitol to the
western gate of the White House are crowded with folk eager to see the procession with its
military column and marching clubs. From an improvised stand in front of the White House, surrounded
by his friends, the new President reviews the parade.

Every four years the newspaper boys describe Inauguration Day, but I am not aware of any novelist
who has put it in a book. Why not? It offers material of a high order for literary description.
"Human interest" material also in abundance, not merely in the aspects of the retiring and
incoming Presidents with their respective retinues of important officials, but in the comedies
and tragedies of the lesser figures of the motley political world. Familiar faces vanish, new
faces appear--especially when a change of administration brings a change of party control.
An evacuating column of ousted and dejected office-holders, prophesying national disaster at
the hands of parvenus, meets an advancing column of would-be office-holders rejoicing in general
over their party's success and palpitantly eager for individual advantage. As in life, so in
Washington on Inauguration Day, humour and pathos mingle. Inauguration Day is the beginning
of a period of uprooting and transplanting.

So it was when the Democrats came into office on March 4, 1913, after sixteen years of uninterrupted
Republican control and for only the third time in the fifty-two years since Buchanan had walked
out of the White House and Lincoln had walked in. Hungry Democrats flocked to Washington, dismayed
Republicans looked on in silence or with sardonic comment. Democratic old-timers who had been
waiting, like Mr. Micawber, for "something to turn up" through long lean years, mingled in
the hotel lobbies with youths flushed with the excitement of a first experience In the political
game and discussed the "prospects," each confident that he was indispensable to the new administration.
Minor officeholders who had, so they said, been political neutrals during the past administration,
anxiously scanned the horizon for signs that they would be retained. "Original Wilson men"
from various parts of the country were introducing themselves or being introduced by their
friends. And there were the thousands, with no axes to grind, who had come simply to look on,
or to participate in a long-postponed Democratic rejoicing, or to wish the new President Godspeed
for his and the country's sake. It is not my business in a book wholly concerned with the personal
side of Woodrow Wilson's political career to attempt a description of Inauguration Day, with
its clamours and its heartaches and its hopes. To the new President the day was, as he himself
said, not one of "triumph" but of "dedication." For him the occasion had a significance beyond
the fortunes of individuals and parties. Something more had happened than a replacement of
Republicans by Democrats. He believed that he had been elected as a result of a stirring of
the American conscience against thinly masked "privilege" and, a reawakening of American aspiration
for government which should more nearly meet the needs of the plain people of the country.
He knew that he would have to disappoint many a hungry office-seeker, whose chief claim to
preferment lay in his boast that he "had always voted the Democratic ticket." Among the new
President's first duties would be the selection of men to fill offices and, of course, in loyalty
to his party, he would give preference to Democrats, but it did not please him to think of
this in terms of "patronage" and "spoils." With the concentration of a purposeful man he was
anxious chiefly to find the best people for the various offices, those capable of doing a day's
work and those who could sense the opportunities for service in whole-hearted devotion to the
country's common cause. His inaugural address met the expectations of thoughtful hearers. It
was on a high plane of statesmanship, uncoloured by partisanship. It was the announcement of
a programme in the interest of the country at large, with the idea of trusteeship strongly
stressed. There was nothing very radical in the address: nothing to terrify those who were
apprehensive lest property rights should be violated. The President gave specific assurance
that there would be due attention to "the old-fashioned, never-to-be-neglected, safeguarding
of property," but he also immediately added "and of individual right." Legitimate property
claims would be scrupulously respected, but it was clear that they who conceived that the chief
business of government is the promotion of their private or corporate interests would get little
aid and comfort from this administration. The underlying meaning of the President's progressivism
was clear: the recovery of old things which through long neglect or misuse had been lost, a
return to the starting point of our Government, government in the interest of the many, not
of the few: "Our work is a work of restoration"; "We have been refreshed by a new insight into
our life."

A deep humanity pervaded the message. To the thoughtful hearer it must have been clear that
the President's mind was more occupied with the masses than with special classes. He was not
hostile to the classes. He was simply less interested in them. "The first duty of law is to
keep sound the society it serves." Such was the first utterance of the President who in a few
weeks was to appear as the champion, not of the special interests, native and foreign, in Mexico,
but of the fifteen million Mexican people, groping blindly, through blood and confusion, after
some form of self-government, and who in a few years was to appear as the champion of small
nations and the masses throughout the world in a titanic struggle against the old principles
of autocracy.

Mingled with the high and human tone of it all was a clear and itemized forecast of proposed
legislation: a revised tariff, a federal reserve banking system, a farmers' loan bank. And
all who knew Woodrow Wilson's record in New Jersey were aware that the Executive would be the
leader in the enactment of legislation. The executive and legislative branches of the Government
in this administration would, all informed people knew, be in partnership in the promotion
of an enterprise as practical as it was inspiring.

CHAPTER XX

MEXICO

Many grave matters inherited from the Taft regime pressed upon the new
Administration for immediate solution. One of the most serious was the
situation in Mexico, growing out of the revolution against the Madero
Government which broke out in Mexico City on February 9, 1913. The murder
of ex-President Madero and Vice-President Suarez, and the usurpation of
presidential authority by General Victoriano Huerta, Minister of Foreign
Affairs, and the general industrial and social chaos of Mexico, made it
necessary for the new administration, only a month in power, quickly to
act and to declare its policy with reference to the question then pending
as to the recognition of the provisional government, the head of which was
Huerta. After becoming "President" of Mexico, the usurper had brazenly
addressed the following telegram to President Taft: "I have overthrown the
Government and, therefore, peace and order will reign," and boldly
asserted a claim to recognition by the Government of the United States.
This was the state of affairs in Mexico when President Wilson was
inaugurated. The duly-elected President of Mexico, Francisco Madero, had
been overthrown by a band of conspirators headed by Huerta. Were the
fruits of the hard-won fight of the Mexican masses against the arbitrary
rule of the favoured few to be wasted? President Wilson answered this
question in his formal statement of March 12, 1913, eight days after his
inauguration. I earnestly desire the most cordial understanding and
    cooperation between the peoples and leaders of America, and,
    therefore, deem it my duty to make this brief statement:

    "Cooeperation is possible only when supported at every turn by the
    orderly processes of just government based upon law, not upon
    arbitrary or irregular force. We hold, as I am sure all thoughtful
    leaders of republican governments everywhere hold, that just
    government rests always upon the consent of the governed, and that
    there can be no freedom without order based upon law and upon the
    public conscience and approval. We shall look to make these principles
    the basis of mutual intercourse, respect, and helpfulness between our
    sister  republics and ourselves.... We can have no sympathy with
    those who seek to seize the power of government to advance their own
    personal interests or ambition."

Two considerations animated the President in the formulation of his Mexican policy and compelled
his adherence in it throughout his administration, namely:

The firm conviction that all nations, both the weak and the powerful, have the inviolable right
to control their internal affairs.

The belief, established from the history of the world, that Mexico will never become a peaceful
and law-abiding neighbour of the United States until she has been permitted to achieve a permanent
and basic settlement of her troubles without outside interference.

Steadfastly, Woodrow Wilson refused to recognize Huerta as the Provisional President of Mexico.
He said: "Huerta, the bitter, implacable foe of everything progressive and humane in Mexico,
boldly defending the privileges of the old scientifico group which he represented, openly defied
the authority of the United States and sneered at the much- ridiculed policy of 'watchful waiting'
proclaimed by the new administration, and laughed to scorn the high idealism which lay behind it."

While Huerta in Mexico was blatantly denouncing this benevolent policy of cooeperation and
helpfulness, aid and comfort were rendered the usurper by the jingoistic criticisms of the
President's enemies in the United States Congress and throughout the country, many of whom,
urged on by the oil interests, in their mad delirium, cried out for a blood-and-iron policy
toward Mexico. Resisting the American interests in Mexico was a part of the President's task.
Those who cried loudest for intervention were they who had land, mineral, and industrial investments
in Mexico. The "vigorous American policy" which they demanded was a policy for personal enrichment.
It was with this phase of the matter in mind that the President said: "I have to pause and
remind myself that I am President of the United States and not of a small group of Americans
with vested interests in Mexico."

But the new President, having mapped out the course he was to follow, a course fraught with
a great deal of danger to his administration, seeking to bring about the moral isolation of
Huerta himself, calmly moved on, apparently unmindful of the jeers and ridicule of his critics
in America and elsewhere. "I am willing," he said, "no matter what my personal fortunes may
be, to play for the verdict of mankind. Personally, it will be a matter of indifference to
me what the verdict on the 7th of November is, provided I feel any degree of confidence that
when a later jury sits I shall get their judgment in my favour. Not my favour personally--what
difference does that make?--but my favour as an honest and conscientious spokesman of a great
nation."

What an utterly foolish thing, said his critics, it is to attempt in this day to oust a Mexican
dictator by mere rhetoric and high-sounding phrases! Doesn't Wilson, the historian, know that
force and force alone can bring that grizzly old warrior Huerta to his senses?"

What was the President seeking to do in proclaiming his policy of "watchful waiting"? He was
merely seeking to establish in Pan-American affairs the principle that no president of a South
American republic who came to power by usurpation and assassination should receive, while he
was president, the recognition of the United States. This doctrine was not only good statesmanship,
but it was likewise sound in morals.

It was disheartening to find bitter criticism of this policy from the outside, and depressing
to find the enemies of watchful waiting "boring from within" through his own Cabinet officers.
Lindley Garrison, his own Secretary of War, had no sympathy for this idealistic policy. His
only antidote for what was happening in Mexico was force and intervention and he honourably
urged this view upon the President, but without succeeding in bringing about the consummation
so dear to his heart.

    And one denies, and one forsakes, and still unquestioning he goes, who
    has his lonely thoughts.

But the President stood firm in his resolve that the people of Mexico should not be punished
for the malefactions of their usurping president, and steadily, against great odds, he moved
forward to vindicate his policy, unmindful of the jeers and criticisms of his enemies.

But the President's policy of watchful waiting did win. The days of the Huerta regime slowly
wended their uneasy way. Huerta suspended the Mexican Constitution and, having imprisoned half
of the Mexican Congress, proceeded to administer the Government as an arbitrary ruler. Slowly
but surely he began to feel the mighty pressure of the unfriendly Government of the United
States upon him. Still defiant, he sought to unite behind him the Mexican people, hoping to
provoke them to military action against the United States. To hold his power he was willing
to run the risk of making his own country a bloody shamble, but President Wilson had the measure
of the tyrant Huerta from the beginning, and soon his efforts to isolate him began to bear fruit.

Little by little the usurper was being isolated. By moral pressure every day his power and
prestige were perceptibly crumbling. His collapse was not far away when the President declared:
"We shall not, I believe, be obliged to alter our policy of watchful waiting." The campaign
of Woodrow Wilson to force Huerta finally triumphed. On July 15th, Huerta resigned and departed
from Mexico. Wilson's humanity and broad statesmanship had won over the system of cruel oppression
for which the "unspeakable Huerta" had stood.

During the Huerta controversy a thing happened which aggravated the Mexican affair, and which
culminated in the now-famous Tampico incident.

On April 9, 1914, a paymaster of the United States steamship Dolphin landed at the Iturbide
bridge at Tampico with a whaleboat and boat's crew to obtain supplies needed aboard the Dolphin.
While loading these supplies the paymaster and his men were arrested by an officer and squad
of the army of General Huerta. Neither the paymaster nor any of the boat's crew were armed.
The boat flew the United States flag both at the bow and stern. Two of the men were in the
boat when arrested and hence were taken from United States "soil." Admiral Mayo, senior American
officer stationed off Tampico, immediately demanded the release of the sailors. Release was
ordered after the paymaster and the sailors had been detained about an hour. Not only did Admiral
Mayo demand the release of the sailors but insisted on a formal apology by the Huerta Government
consisting of a twenty-one-gun salute to the flag.

During the critical days following the refusal of Huerta to accede to Admiral Mayo's request
the State Department was notified that there would arrive at Vera Cruz the German steamship
Ypirango about to deliver to Huerta 15,000,000 rounds of ammunition and 500 rapid-fire guns.

About 2.30 o'clock in the morning of the 21st day of April, 1914, the telephone operator at
the White House called me at my home, and rousing me from bed, informed me that the Secretary
of State, Mr. Bryan, desired to speak to me at once upon a very urgent and serious matter.
I went to the telephone and was informed by Mr. Bryan that he had just received a wireless
informing him that the German steamship Ypirango, carrying munitions would arrive at Vera Cruz
that morning about ten o'clock and that he thought the President ought to be notified and that,
in his opinion, drastic measures should at once be taken to prevent the delivery of these munitions
to the Customs House at Vera Cruz. While Mr. Bryan and I were talking, Mr. Daniels, the Secretary
of the Navy, got on the wire and confirmed all that Mr. Bryan had just told me. Soon the President
was on the 'phone, and in a voice indicating that he had just been aroused from sleep, carried
on the following conversation with Messrs. Bryan, Daniels, and myself: Mr. Bryan reported to
him the situation at Vera Cruz and informed him of the receipt of the wireless:

"Mr. President, I am sorry to inform you that I have just received a wireless that a German
ship will arrive at Vera Cruz this morning at ten o'clock, containing large supplies of munitions
and arms for the Mexicans and I want your judgment as to how we shall handle the situation."

Replying to Mr. Bryan, the President said: "Of course, Mr. Bryan, you understand what drastic
action in this matter might ultimately mean in our relations with Mexico?"

Mr. Bryan said, by way of reply:

"I thoroughly appreciate this, Mr. President, and fully considered it before telephoning you."
For a second there was a slight pause and then the President asked Mr. Daniels his opinion
in regard to the matter.

Mr. Daniels frankly agreed with Mr. Bryan that immediate action should be taken to prevent
the German ship from landing its cargo. Without a moment's delay the President said to Mr. Daniels:

"Daniels, send this message to Admiral Fletcher: 'Take Vera Cruz at once'."

As I sat at the 'phone on this fateful morning, away from the hurly-burly world outside, clad
only in my pajamas, and listened to this discussion, the tenseness of the whole situation and
its grave possibilities of war with all its tragedy gripped me. Here were three men quietly
gathered about a 'phone, pacifists at heart, men who had been criticized and lampooned throughout
the whole country as being anti-militarist, now without hesitation of any kind agreeing on
a course of action that might result in bringing two nations to war. They were pacifists no
longer, but plain, simple men, bent upon discharging the duty they owed their country and utterly
disregarding their own personal feelings of antagonism to every phase of war.

After Mr. Bryan and Mr. Daniels had left the telephone the President said: "Tumulty, are you
there? What did you think of my message?" I replied that there was nothing else to do under
the circumstances. He then said: "It is too bad, isn't it, but we could not allow that cargo
to land. The Mexicans intend using those guns upon our own boys. It is hard to take action
of this kind. I have tried to keep out of this Mexican mess, but we are now on the brink of
war and there is no alternative."

Discussing this vital matter that morning with the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy,
I could visualize the possible tragedy of the whole affair. I pictured the flagship of Admiral
Fletcher with its fine cargo of sturdy young marines, riding serenely at anchor off Vera Cruz,
and those aboard the vessel utterly unmindful of the message that was now on its way through
the air, an ominous message which to some of them would be a portent of death. When the President
concluded his conversation with me his voice was husky. It indicated to me that he felt the
solemnity of the whole delicate business he was now handling, while the people of America,
whose spokesman he was, were at this hour quietly sleeping in their beds, unaware and unmindful
of the grave import of this message which was already on its way to Vera Cruz.

When I arrived at the White House the next morning I found the newspaper correspondents attached
to the Executive offices uninformed of what had happened in the early morning, but when I notified
them that the President had ordered Admiral Fletcher at 2.30 o'clock in the morning to take
Vera Cruz, they jumped, as one man, to the door, to flash this significant news to the country
and the world.

With Huerta's abdication Venustiano Carranza took hold, but the Mexican troubles were not at
an end. The constant raiding expeditions of Villa across the American border were a source
of great irritation and threatened every few days a conflagration. While Villa stood with Carranza
as a companion in arms to depose Huerta, the "entente cordiale" was at an end as soon as Huerta
passed off the stage. With these expeditions of Villa and his motley crew across the border
our relations with our neighbour to the south were again seriously threatened. With Villa carrying
on his raids and Carranza always misunderstanding the purpose and attitude of our Government
and spurning its offer of helpful cooperation, difficulties of various sorts arose with each
day, until popular opinion became insistent in its demand for vigorous action on the part of
the American President. Every ounce of reserve patience of the President was called into action
to keep the situation steady. How to do it, with many incidents happening each day to intensify
and aggravate an already acute situation, was the problem that met the President at every turn.
At this time the President was the loneliest figure in Washington.

  Grotesque uncertain shapes infest the dark
    And wings of bats are heard in aimless flight;
  Discordant voices cry and serpents hiss,
    No friendly star, no beacon's beckoning ray.

Even the members of his own party in the Senate and House were left without an apology or excuse
for the seeming indifference of the President to affairs in Mexico. Day after day from outraged
senators would come vigorous demands for firm action on the part of America, insistent that
something radical be done to establish conditions of peace along our southern borders. From
many of them came the unqualified demand for intervention, so that the Mexican question should
be once and for all settled.

In the Cabinet, the Secretary of War, the vigorous spokesman of the Cabinet group, demanding
radical action in the way of intervention, was insisting that we intervene and put an end to
the pusillanimous rule of Carranza and "clean up" Mexico. Even I, who had stood with the President
during the critical days of the Mexican imbroglio, for a while grew faint hearted in my devotion
to the policy of watchful waiting. To me, the attack of Villa on Columbus, and the killing
of some of our soldiers while asleep, was the last straw. The continuance of this impossible
situation along the border was unthinkable. To force the President's hand, if possible, I expressed
my feelings in the following letters to him:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    March 15, 1916.

    MY DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I have been thinking over what we discussed this morning with
    reference to the Mexican situation. I am not acting on impulse and
    without a full realization, I hope, of everything that is involved. I
    am convinced that we should pursue to the end the declared purpose
    announced by you last Friday and endorsed by Congress and the people
    of the United States of "getting Villa." If the de facto government
    is going to resist the entrance of our troops, a new situation will be
    presented. I feel that you ought to advise Congress at the earliest
    possible moment of what the situation really is in order to secure its
    support and cooperation in whatever action is needed to accomplish the
    purpose you have in mind. To retrace our steps now would be not only
    disastrous to our party and humiliating to the country, but would be
    destructive of our influence in international affairs and make it
    forever impossible to deal in any effective way with Mexican affairs.

    Your appeal to Congress ought to deal with this matter in an
    affirmative way, asking for the requisite power which you may feel
    assured will be granted you in ungrudging fashion.

    My apology for writing you is my distress of mind and my deep interest
    in everything that affects you and your future and, I hope, the
    country's welfare. I would not be your friend if I did not tell you
    frankly how I feel.

    Faithfully,
      TUMULTY.

    THE PRESIDENT,
      The White House.

           *       *       *       *       *

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    June 24, 1916.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    The Mexican authorities admit that they have taken American soldiers
    and incarcerated them. The people feel that a demand should be made
    for their immediate release, and that it should not take the form of
    an elaborate note. Only firmness and an unflinching insistence upon
    our part will bring the gentlemen in Mexico City to their senses.

    If I were President at this moment, or acting as Secretary of State,
    my message to Carranza would be the following:

    "Release those American soldiers or take the consequences."

    This would ring around the world.

     Faithfully,
       TUMULTY.

    THE PRESIDENT,
      The White House.

After reading these letters, the President sent for me one day to visit with him in his study,
and to discuss "the present situation in Mexico." As I sat down, he turned to me in the most
serious way and said: "Tumulty, you are Irish, and, therefore, full of fight. I know how deeply
you feel about this Columbus affair. Of course, it is tragical and deeply regrettable from
every standpoint, but in the last analysis I, and not the Cabinet or you, must bear the responsibility
for every action that is to be taken. I have to sleep with my conscience in these matters and
I shall be held responsible for every drop of blood that may be spent in the enterprise of
intervention. I am seriously considering every phase of this difficult matter, and I can say
frankly to you, and you may inform the Cabinet officers who discuss it with you, that 'there
won't be any war with Mexico if I can prevent it,' no matter how loud the gentlemen on the
hill yell for it and demand it. It is not a difficult thing for a president to declare war,
especially against a weak and defenceless nation like Mexico. In a republic like ours, the
man on horseback is always an idol, and were I considering the matter from the standpoint of
my own political fortunes, and its influence upon the result of the next election, I should
at once grasp this opportunity and invade Mexico, for it would mean the triumph of my administration.
But this has never been in my thoughts for a single moment. The thing that daunts me and holds
me back is the aftermath of war, with all its tears and tragedies. I came from the South and
I know what war is, for I have seen its wreckage and terrible ruin. It is easy for me as President
to declare war. I do not have to fight, and neither do the gentlemen on the Hill who now clamour
for it. It is some poor farmer's boy, or the son of some poor widow away off in some modest
community, or perhaps the scion of a great family, who will have to do the fighting and the
dying. I will not resort to war against Mexico until I have exhausted every means to keep out
of this mess. I know they will call me a coward and a quitter, but that will not disturb me.
Time, the great solvent, will, I am sure, vindicate this policy of humanity and forbearance.
Men forget what is back of this struggle in Mexico. It is the age-long struggle of a people
to come into their own, and while we look upon the incidents in the foreground, let us not
forget the tragic reality in the background which towers above this whole sad picture. The
gentlemen who criticize me speak as if America were afraid to fight Mexico. Poor Mexico, with
its pitiful men, women, and children, fighting to gain a foothold in their own land! They speak
of the valour of America. What is true valour? I would be just as much ashamed to be rash as
I would to be a coward. Valour is self-respecting. Valour is circumspect. Valour strikes only
when it is right to strike. Valour withholds itself from all small implications and entanglements
and waits for the great opportunity when the sword will flash as if it carried the light of
heaven upon its blade."

As the President spoke, his eyes flashed and his lips quivered with the deep emotion he felt.
It was the first time he had unburdened himself and laid bare his real feelings toward Mexico.
Rising from his chair, he walked toward the window of his study, the very window out of which
Lincoln had looked upon the Potomac and the hills of Virginia during the critical days of the
Civil War when he was receiving bad news about the defeat of the Northern army. Continuing
his talk, he said: "Tumulty, some day the people of America will know why I hesitated to intervene
in Mexico. I cannot tell them now for we are at peace with the great power whose poisonous
propaganda is responsible for the present terrible condition of affairs in Mexico. German propagandists
are there now, fomenting strife and trouble between our countries. Germany is anxious to have
us at war with Mexico, so that our minds and our energies will be taken off the great war across
the sea. She wishes an uninterrupted opportunity to carry on her submarine warfare and believes
that war with Mexico will keep our hands off her and thus give her liberty of action to do
as she pleases on the high seas. It begins to look as if war with Germany is inevitable. If
it should come--I pray God it may not--I do not wish America's energies and forces divided,
for we will need every ounce of reserve we have to lick Germany. Tumulty, we must try patience
a little longer and await the development of the whole plot in Mexico."

Did not the publication of the famous Zimmerman note show that German intrigue was busy in Mexico?

    TO GERMAN MINISTER VON ECKHARDT,
      Mexico City.

As the storm of ridicule and criticism of his policy of watchful waiting beat fiercely upon
him, I often wondered if he felt the petty meanness which underlay it, or was disturbed or
dispirited by it. As the unkind blows fell upon him, thick and fast from every quarter, he
gave no evidence to those who were close to him of any irritation, or of the deep anger he
must have felt at what appeared to be a lack of sympathy on the part of the country toward
the idealistic policy in the treatment of Mexican affairs. Never for a single moment was he
driven from the course he had mapped out for himself. He had given his heart and soul to a
great humane task and he moved toward its consummation amid a hurricane of protests and criticisms.

There was a time, however, when I thought he displayed chagrin and
disappointment at the obstacles placed in his path in settling the affairs
of Mexico. It was in a little speech delivered at the Brooklyn Navy Yard
on the occasion of the burial of the Marines who fell at Vera Cruz. The
following paragraph contained a note of sadness and even depression. Morally speaking, disaster and
    triumph are imposters. The cheers of the moment are not what a man
    ought to think about, but the verdict of his conscience and of the
    consciences of mankind.

CHAPTER XXI

PANAMA TOLLS

In an introduction to "The Panama Canal Tolls Controversy," edited by Hugh Gordon Miller and
Joseph C. Freehoff, Mr. Oscar S. Straus wrote: "There is no more honourable chapter in the
highly creditable history of the diplomacy of our country than the repeal of the Panama Tolls
Act under the present administration. Being a controversy affecting our international relations,
it is gratifying that, aside from the leadership of the President, the repeal was effected
not solely by the party in power, but by the help of leaders in all three parties, rising above
the plane of partisan politics to the higher reaches of broad statesmanship, guided by a scrupulous
regard for our international character in accord with 'a decent respect for the opinions of
mankind,' as expressed in the Declaration of Independence." President Wilson himself, after
the repealing act had been passed, remarked, "When everything else about this Administration
has been forgotten, its attitude on the Panama Tolls treaty will be remembered as a long forward
step in the process of making the conduct between nations the same as that which obtains between
honourable individuals dealing with each other, scrupulously respecting their contracts, no
matter what the cost."

In making his recommendations to Congress he, almost with high disdain, ignored legal technicalities
and diplomatic quibbles and took high moral ground.

An act passed in 1912 had exempted American coastwise shipping passing through the Canal from
the tolls assessed on other vessels, and the British Government had protested against this
on the ground that it violated the Hay-Pauncefote treaty of 1901, which had stipulated that
the Canal should be open to the vessels of all nations "on terms of entire equality." Other
nations than England had an interest in this question, and there was a suspicion that some
of them were even more keenly if not more heavily interested; but England took the initiative,
and the struggle to save the exemption was turned, in the United States, into a demonstration
by the Irish, Germans, and other anti-British elements. Innate hostility to England and coastwise
shipping interests formed the backbone of the opposition to any repeal of this exemption, but
the Taft Administration had held that the exemption did not conflict with the treaty (on the
ground that the words "all nations" meant all nations except the United States), and British
opposition to the fortification of the Canal, as well as the attitude of a section of the British
press during the Canadian elections of 1911, had created a distrust of British motives which
was heightened by the conviction of many that the Hay- Pauncefote Treaty had been a bad bargain.

It was understood early in President Wilson's Administration that he believed the exemption
was in violation of the treaty, but not until October did he make formal announcement that
he intended to ask Congress to repeal it. The question did not come into the foreground, however,
until March 5, 1914, when the President addressed this request to Congress in ominous language,
which to this day remains unexplained. "No communication I addressed to Congress," he said,
"has carried with it more grave and far-reaching implications to the interests of the country."

The first word I received that the President contemplated addressing Congress, asking for the
repeal of Panama Tolls, came about in this way: I was notified after dinner one evening that
the President wished to confer with me in his study. When I arrived at the White House Mrs.
Wilson met me and informed me of the plan which the President had in mind with reference to
this matter and of his decision to issue a statement that night which would be carried in the
newspapers the following morning, and of his determination to address Congress, asking for
a repeal of the Panama Tolls. Mrs. Wilson showed considerable excitement over the President's
proposed step when she discussed the matter with me as I arrived at the White House. She said
she had argued with the President and had tried to persuade him that if he intended to do so
unusual a thing that now was the inopportune moment for it for the reason that it would create
a party crisis and probably a split, the result of which we could not foresee. When I went
into the President's study, he read me the announcement he had prepared for the papers. The
full significance and the possible danger which lay in the proposed move that the President
was about to make struck me at once. Frankly I put the whole political situation in the country
before him as it would be affected by his attitude in this matter, saying to him that the stand
he was about to take would irritate large blocks of Irish, Germans, and other anti-British
elements in the country, and that we might expect that the leaders in our own party, the heads
of the various committees, like Fitzgerald of Appropriations, Underwood of the Ways and Means,
and Clark, the Speaker of the House, would be found in solid opposition, and that, at a time
when we needed every bit of strength to put our party programme of domestic legislation into
effect, it seemed to me unwise to inject this matter, which could only be a disturbing element,
into our party's councils. In discussing the matter with me, after I had presented the objections
to it, which I did with great feeling and probably some irritation, he said: "I knew the view
you would take of it, but, unfortunately, every argument you lay before me in opposition to
the programme I have outlined in this statement is purely a partisan one and one whose value
I cannot recognize at this time. I must not count the effect of a move of this kind upon my
own personal political fortunes. I am the trustee of the people and I am bound to take cognizance
of the fact that by reason of our attitude on Panama Tolls our treaties are discredited in
every chancellery of Europe, where we are looked upon as a nation that does not live up to
its plighted word. We may have made a very bad bargain with England on Panama Tolls, but it
will be all the more credit to us if we stand by an agreement even when it entails a sacrifice
on our part. The men who were parties to this treaty, like Joseph Choate, all agree that we
have been indulging in hair-splitting and that we have done a great injustice to England. I
ought not, therefore, to be afraid, because of the antagonisms that will be created, to do
my duty and risk my political future if necessary in righting a great wrong. We cannot expect
to hold the friendship of the world, especially of England, France, and Japan, if we are to
treat agreements not as inviolable contracts, but as mere matters of convenience, whose plain
terms are to be ignored when matters of expediency dictate. I know that the Irish, through
the Hearst newspapers, will cry out that I have surrendered to England, that I am attempting
to hand over to Europe a quasi-control over the Panama Canal. As a matter of fact, we are in
bad by reason of our attitude on Panama Tolls with various leading nations of Europe, and some
unforeseen contingency may arise where it will be found that the reason for their withdrawal
of friendship for us was our petty attitude in this matter. I realize, as you urge, that the
leaders of our party will be found in opposition, but I must forget this and try to work the
matter out so that at least I shall have cleared my skirts and have done what is possible for
me to do to right a great wrong."

When the President concluded his statement I put before him the possible reaction against his
administration and him personally which might be reflected in the returns of the Congressional
elections to be held that year. He replied by saying: "I have calculated every element in the
situation and I have concluded where the path of duty lies. If we begin to consider the effect
upon our own political fortunes of every step we take in these delicate matters of our foreign
relations, America will be set adrift and her word questioned in every court in Europe. It
is important that every agreement that America subscribes her name to shall be carried out
in the spirit of those who negotiated it."

On March 5, 1914, the President addressed Congress and asked for a repeal of Panama Tolls and
immediately the fierce fires of party opposition began to burn. His party leaders expressed
their opposition to the repeal in open, honourable, and vigorous fashion and the fight was
on. Now that the leading Democrats in the Senate and House had left us, it was necessary for
us to reorganize our forces at once. This task devolved upon me and I immediately got in touch
with younger men of the House, like Mitchell Palmer, Judge Covington, and that sturdy Republican
from Minnesota, Fred Stevens, and over night we had a militant organization in the trenches,
prepared to meet the onslaught of our enemies.

The President was adamant under the bitterest criticism. His attitude brought down on him a
shower of personal abuse and vituperation from Irish organs and from a group of newspapers
which presently were to appear as the chief supporters of Germany. The arguments against the
repeal were unusually bitter, and even though Elihu Root, leading Republican senator, in a
brilliant and effective speech took his stand by the President and against the recent Republican
Administration, partisan criticism seized upon the opening. Nevertheless, the tolls exemption
was repealed in June and the events of July and August, 1914, and especially after Von Bethmann-Hollweg
stood up in the German Reichstag and characterized the treaty between Germany and Belgium as
a mere scrap of paper, gave a certain satisfaction to those who stood by the President for
the sanctity of treaties.

Sir Edward Grey, then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, commenting upon the action in
the House of Commons said: "It has not been done to please us, or in the interest of good relations,
but I believe from a much greater motive--the feeling that a government which is to use its
influence among nations to make relations better must never, when the occasion arises, flinch
or quail from interpreting treaty rights in a strictly fair spirit."

CHAPTER XXII

REFORMING THE CURRENCY

I have bitterly resented at times the imputation and charge that Woodrow Wilson is so egotistical,
self-willed, and so wedded to his own ideas that he not only does not invite suggestion from
the outside but that he resents it and refuses to be guided by it.

I feel that my daily intimacy with him for eleven years gives me the right to speak frankly
in the matter. Of course, like every great man, he is firmly set in his opinions. He holds
and cleaves to them with a passionate devotion and tenacity but only after the fullest consideration
of all the facts and information upon which he bases a final conviction. Time and again I have
seen him gallantly retreat under the fire of a better argument in a matter that he had been
previously disposed to favour.

And what of his attitude toward those who came to the Executive offices to argue with him on
some vital matter in which he had formed what appeared to be an unalterable judgment? Never
did he assume the unfriendly or unyielding attitude of the doctrinaire or the man of a single
idea. I recall a case in point. He was discussing the revenue situation with Representative
Claude Kitchin of North Carolina, at a time when it was the subject of bitter controversy in
the ranks of the Democratic party. The President and Mr. Kitchin held radically divergent views
on this matter; the President sought to lead the party in one direction and Mr. Kitchin openly
pursued an opposite course. I was present at this conference. No warm friendship existed between
these two men; but there was never any evidence of hostility in the President's attitude toward
Mr. Kitchin. He listened politely and with patience to every argument that Mr. Kitchin vigorously
put forward to sustain his contention in the matter, and took without wincing the sledgehammer
blows often dealt by Mr. Kitchin. The President replied to Mr. Kitchin's arguments in an open,
frank manner and invited him to the fullest possible discussion of the matter.

I recall the conclusion of this interview, when it seemed that, having driven the President
from point to point, Mr. Kitchin was the victor. There was no disappointment or chagrin evident
in the President's manner as he faced Mr. Kitchin to accept his defeat. He met it in true sportsmanlike
fashion. At the conclusion of Mr. Kitchin's argument the President literally threw up his hands
and said, quietly, without showing a trace of disappointment: "I surrender, Mr. Kitchin. You
have beaten me. I shall inform my friends on the Hill that I was mistaken and shall instruct
them, of course, to follow you in this matter."

I could crowd this chapter with similar incidents, but it would be a work of supererogation.

Never before was Mr. Wilson's open-minded desire to apply in practice the principle of common
counsel better illustrated than in his handling of the important work in connection with the
establishment of the Federal Reserve Act, the keystone of the great arch of the Democratic
Administration. It was the first item in his programme to set business free in America and
to establish it upon a firm and permanent basis. He aptly said to me, when he first discussed
the basic reason for the legislation, he wished not only to set business free in America, but
he desired also to take away from certain financial interests in the country the power they
had unjustly exercised of "hazing" the Democratic party at every Presidential election.

Shortly after the Presidential election in 1912, while he was burdened with the responsibilities
of the Executive office at Trenton, New Jersey, he began, in collaboration with that fine,
able, resourceful Virginian, Representative Carter Glass, then chairman of the Banking and
Currency Committee of the House, the preparation of the Federal Reserve Banking and Currency
Act. For hours at the Executive office in Trenton the Virginia Congressman conferred with the
Governor of New Jersey over the preliminary drafts of this most vital piece of legislation.
For days the work of preparation was carried on, so that when Mr. Wilson arrived in Washington
to take up the duties of the Presidency, the Banking and Currency Bill was in shape and ready
for immediate introduction in the Senate and House.

Looking back over the struggle that ensued from the time this measure was introduced into the
Senate and House, I often wonder if the people "back home," especially the various business
interests of the country, who have been saved from financial disaster by this admirable and
wholesome piece of legislation, ever realized the painstaking labour and industry, night and
day, which Woodrow Wilson, in addition to his other multitudinous duties, put upon this task.
Could they but understand the character of the opposition he faced even in his own party ranks,
and how in the midst of one of Washington's most trying summers, without vacation or recreation
of any kind, he grappled with this problem in the face of stubborn opposition, they would,
perhaps, be willing to pay tribute to the earnestness and sincerity of this man who finally
placed upon the statute books one of the greatest constructive pieces of legislation of half
a century. Having given his heart to this important task, whose enactment into law was a boon
to business and established for the first time in America a "Democracy of Credit," as he was
pleased to call it, he relentlessly pursued his object until senators and representatives yielded
to his insistent request for the enactment of this law, not under the stress of the party whip,
but through arguments which he passionately presented to those who sought his counsel in this
matter.

During this time I gladly accepted the President's invitation to spend the summer with him
at the White House, where I occupied the bedroom that had been used as Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet
Room, and where Mr. Lincoln had signed his famous Emancipation Proclamation. My presence, during
that summer, as a member of the President's family, gave me a good opportunity to see him in
action in his conferences in regard to the Federal Reserve Act. Never was greater patience,
forbearance, or fortitude, shown by a chief executive under such trying circumstances. Day
after day, when it seemed as if real progress was being made, unexpected opposition would develop
and make it necessary to rebuild our shattered lines, until finally the bill was out of the
House and on its way to the Senate.

Its arrival in the Senate was but the beginning of what appeared an almost interminable struggle.
The President's stalwart adviser in the Treasury, Mr. McAdoo, was always at hand to rally and
give encouragement to our forces, many of whom at times were in despair over the prospects
of the bill. The leaders of the opposition on the committee were Senator Root on the Republican
side and Senators O'Gorman and Reed on the Democratic.

It seemed at times as if they had succeeded in blocking an agreement on the Conference Report.
At last word was brought to the President by Representative Glass that the opposition of these
gentlemen might succeed in killing the bill. The President up to this time, although fighting
against great odds, showed no impatience or petulancy, but the message brought by Mr. Glass
was the last straw. Looking at Mr. Glass, with a show of fire and in a voice that indicated
the impatience he felt, the President said: "Glass, have you got the votes in the committee
to override these gentlemen [meaning O'Gorman and Reed]?" Glass replied that he had. "Then,"
said the President, "outvote them, damn them, outvote them!"

Mr. McAdoo came to the White House a few days later to make a report about the situation in
the Senate, with reference to the Federal Reserve Act. His report was most discouraging as
to the final passage of the bill. He said that his information from the Hill was that the leaders
of the opposition in the Senate were bent upon a filibuster and that the probabilities were
that the Senate would finally adjourn without any action being taken on the Federal Reserve Act.

This conversation took place on the White House portico, which overlooks the beautiful Potomac
and the hills of Virginia. It was one of the hottest days in June, a day which left all of
us who were about the President low in spirit. Only those who know the depressing character
of Washington's midsummer heat can understand the full significance of this statement. The
President on this occasion was seated in an old-fashioned rocker, attired in a comfortable,
cool-looking Palm Beach suit. Mr. McAdoo reported the situation in detail and said that, in
his opinion, it was hopeless to try to do more with the bill: that an impasse had been reached
between the Senate and the House. The President quickly interrupted Mr. McAdoo, saying, with
a smile: "Mac, when the boys at Princeton came to me and told me they were going to lose a
football game, they always lost. We must not lose this game; too much is involved. Please say
to the gentlemen on the Hill who urge a postponement of this matter that Washington weather,
especially in these days, fully agrees with me and that unless final action is taken on this
measure at this session I will immediately call Congress in extraordinary session to act upon
this matter." This challenge, brought to the Hill by Mr. McAdoo, quickly did the job and the
bill was soon on its way to the White House.

Mr. Wilson conducted the conferences in this matter with friends and foes alike with a quiet
mastery and good temper diametrically contrary to the reports sedulously circulated for political
purposes, that he was autocratic and refused to cooperate with the members of the Senate and
House in an effort to pass legislation in which the whole country was interested.

We have only to recall the previous attempts made by former administrations to legislate upon
the currency question, especially the efforts of the Harrison and Cleveland administrations,
to understand and appreciate the difficulties that lay in the path of Woodrow Wilson in his
efforts to free the credit of the country from selfish control and to push this vital legislation
to enactment. Previous attempts had always resulted in failure and sometimes in disaster to
the administrations in control at the time. The only evidences of these frequent but abortive
efforts to pass currency legislation were large and bulky volumes containing the hearings of
the expensive Monetary Commission that had been set up by Senator Aldrich of Rhode Island.
As an historian and man of affairs, Woodrow Wilson realized the difficulties and obstacles
that lay in his path in attempting to reform the currency, but he was not in the least daunted
by the magnitude of the task which confronted him. He moved cautiously forward and pressed
for early action at the first session of the Congress following his inauguration. He realized
that with the passage of the tariff legislation, which always acts as a business depressant,
it was necessary at the same time to have the stimulus the Currency Bill would afford when
enacted into law. The split of '96 in the Democratic ranks over the money question was an additional
reason for cautious and well-considered action if the Federal Reserve Bill was to become a reality.

The presence of Mr. Bryan in the Cabinet and his well-known views on this question were strong
reasons for watchful and careful prevision. It was obvious to Mr. Wilson from the outset that
insurmountable difficulties lay in his path, but he brushed them aside as if they were inconsequential.

In the Committee on Banking and Currency, in both the Senate and House, were many ardent and
devoted friends of Mr. Bryan, who thought that his radical views on the money question could
be used as a rallying point for opposition to the President's plan for currency reform. But
those who counted on Mr. Bryan's antagonism were doomed to disappointment and failure, for
while it is true that Mr. Bryan found serious objections to certain parts of the bill, when
these were eliminated he moved forward with the President in the most generous fashion and
remained with him until the Federal Reserve Act was made part of the law of the land.

It was in a conference with members of the Banking and Currency Committee that I first saw
the President in action with the gentlemen of the Senate and House. He had invited the Democratic
members of the Banking and Currency Committee to confer with him in the Cabinet Room in the
White House offices. From my desk in an anteroom I heard all the discussions of the bill. There
was full, open discussion of the bill in all its phases at this conference in which were collected
the conservatives of the East, the radicalists of the West, and those who came to be known
as the "corn tassel" representatives of the South, all holding widely divergent views and representing
every shade of opinion, some of it sharply antagonistic to the President's views. Some of the
members were openly hostile to the President, even in a personal way, particularly one representative
from the South, and some of the questions addressed to the President were ungracious to the
verge of open insult. It was an exasperating experience, but Mr. Wilson stood the test with
patience, betraying no resentment to impertinent questions, replying to every query with Chesterfieldian
grace and affability, parrying every blow with courtesy and gentleness, gallantly ignoring
the unfriendly tone and manifest unfairness of some of the questions, keeping himself strictly
to the merits of the discussion, subordinating his personal feelings to the important public
business under consideration, until all his interrogators were convinced of his sincerity and
fair-mindedness and some were ashamed of their own ungracious bearing.

It was clear to me as I watched this great man in action on this trying occasion that in the
cause he was defending he saw, with a vision unimpaired and a judgment unclouded by prejudice
or prepossessions, far beyond the little room in which he was conferring. He saw the varied
and pressing needs of a great nation labouring now under a currency system that held its resources
as if in a strait-jacket. He saw in the old monetary system which had prevailed in the country
for many years a prolific breeder of panic and financial distress. He saw the farmer of the
West and South a plaything of Eastern financial interests. And thus, under the leadership of
Woodrow Wilson was begun the first skirmish in the great battle to free the credit of the country
from selfish control, a movement which led to the establishment of a financial system that
ended for all time the danger or possibility of financial panic.

There was an interesting incident in connection with the handling of the currency legislation
that brought about what threatened to be the first rift in the President's Cabinet. It concerned
Mr. Bryan's attitude of opposition to certain features of the bill as drafted by the Banking
and Currency Committee of the House. My connection with this particular affair arose in this
way: In the early stages of the discussion of the Federal Reserve Act, and while Mr. Glass's
committee was considering the matter, a messenger from the White House informed me that the
President wished to confer with me in his study. As I walked into the room, I saw at once from
his general attitude and expression that something serious was afoot and that he was very much
distressed. Turning around in his chair he said: "It begins to look as if W. J. B. [he thus
referred to Mr. Bryan] and I have come to the parting of the ways on the Currency Bill. He
is opposed to the bank-note feature of the bill as drawn. We had a long discussion about the
matter after Cabinet meeting to-day. In thoroughly kindly way Mr. Bryan informed me that he
was opposed to that feature of the bill. Of course, you know, W. J. B. and I have never been
in agreement on the money question. It is only fair, however, to say that in our discussion
Mr. Bryan conducted himself in the most generous way, and I was deeply touched by his personal
attitude of friendliness toward me. He even went so far as to say that in order that I might
not be embarrassed in the handling of the bill, he was willing to resign and leave the country
and make no public criticism of the measure. In the meantime, Mr. Bryan has promised to say
nothing to any one about the matter until he has a further discussion with me."

The President then frankly discussed with me the effect of the possible resignation of Mr.
Bryan. The President suggested that I drop in on Mr. Bryan very soon and if possible casually
invite a discussion of the Federal Reserve Act, telling Mr. Bryan of his [the President's]
interests in it, and how much he appreciated Mr. Bryan's personal attitude toward him.

I realized the seriousness and delicacy of the situation I was asked to handle, and, being
on the friendliest terms with Mr. Bryan, I telephoned him and invited myself to his home--the
old Logan Mansion, a beautiful place in the northwest part of Washington. I found Mr. Bryan
alone when I arrived. We went at once to his library and, in a boyish way, he showed me a picture
which the President had autographed for him only a few days previous. As we stood before this
picture Mr. Bryan gave expression to his sincere admiration and affection for the President.
He related, with deep feeling, how much Mr. Bryan had enjoyed his contact and official companionship
with him and how he had come to have a very deep affection for him. As we turned away from
the picture, he grew serious and began the discussion of the very thing the President and I
had conferred on only a few hours before. He freely discussed his differences with the President
over the Federal Reserve Act, and asked me the direct question: "Who from Wall Street has been
discussing this bill with the President? I am afraid that some of the President's friends have
been emphasizing too much the view of Wall Street in their conferences with the President on
this bill." I frankly told Mr. Bryan that this imputation did a great injustice to the fine
men with whom the President conferred on the matter of banking reform and that I was certain
that the President's only intimate advisers in this matter were Mr. McAdoo, Senator Owen of
Oklahoma, and Mr. Glass of Virginia, and that I personally knew that in their discussions the
President never argued the point of view of the Eastern financial interests. Mr. Bryan was
reassured by my statement and proceeded to lay before me his objections to the character of
the currency issue provided for in the bill. He then took from the library shelves a volume
containing all the Democratic National platforms and read excerpts from them bearing upon the
question of currency reform. He soon convinced me that there was great merit in his contention.
Before leaving him, I told him of my interview with the President and how deeply distressed
he [the President] was that Mr. Bryan was not disposed to support him in the matter of the
Federal Reserve Act. It was evident that Mr. Bryan felt a keen sympathy for the President and
that he was honestly trying to find a way out of his difficulties that would enable him to
give the President his whole-hearted support. He showed real emotion when I disclosed to him
the personal feelings of the President toward him, and I feel sure I left him in a more agreeable
frame of mind. I told him that I would talk with the President, Mr. McAdoo, and Mr. Glass and
report to him on the following day.

I returned to the President's study and reported to him in detail the results of my conference
with Mr. Bryan. I called his attention to Mr. Bryan's criticism of the bill and then ventured
the opinion that Mr. Bryan, according to the traditional policy of the Democratic party, was
right in his attitude and that I felt that he [Mr. Wilson] was wrong. For a moment the President
showed a little impatience with this statement and asked me to point out to him where the party
in the National platforms had ever taken the view Mr. Bryan indicated in his discussion with
me. I then showed him the book Mr. Bryan had given me, containing the Democratic platforms,
and he read very carefully plank after plank on the currency. He finally closed the book, placed
it on his desk, and said: "I am convinced there is a great deal in what Mr. Bryan says." We
then discussed ways of adjusting the matter. I finally suggested that the President allow me
to talk with Mr. Glass and place before him Mr. Bryan's position and that he have Mr. Glass
confer with Secretary McAdoo and Senator Owen. This was arranged. I had no way of ascertaining
just what took place at this conference, but after the Cabinet meeting on the following Tuesday
Mr. Bryan walked around to where the President was sitting, and said to him: "Mr. President,
we have settled our differences and you may rely upon me to remain with you to the end of the
fight." The President thanked him cordially, and thus the first break in the Cabinet line was
averted.

CHAPTER XXIII

RENOMINATED

As the days of the 1916 Convention at St. Louis approached, it was a foregone conclusion that
there would be no serious contender against the President for the nomination and that he would
win the prize by a practically unanimous vote. While at times the friends of Mr. Bryan and
Mr. Clark were hopeful that the President might withdraw from the contest, after the Democrats
at the Convention were assured that the President was ready to accept a renomination, the field
was made clear for the setting of the Convention stage to accomplish that end.

It was thought that the St. Louis Convention would be a trite affair; that there would be no
enthusiasm in it. This anticipation arose from the idea expressed by many of the devoted friends
of the Democratic party, that the cause of Democracy in 1916 was little less than hopeless.
Much of this feeling came from the inordinately high estimate which many placed upon Mr. Justice
Hughes both as a candidate and as a campaigner. Indeed, many Democrats who had canvassed the
national situation felt that without a continuation of the split in the ranks of the Republican
party the road to Democratic success was indeed a hard and difficult one to travel.

There is no doubt that in the opinion of the country Mr. Justice Hughes was the strongest man
the Republicans could put forward. The fact that he was resigning from the Supreme Court bench
and that he had a remarkably progressive record as Governor of New York added a glamour and
prestige to this nomination. I, myself, never lost confidence, however, in our ability to win.
The Congressional elections of 1914, when the Democratic majority in the House was reduced
to thirty-five, had dispirited Democratic friends throughout the country and made them feel
that the nomination at St. Louis would be a purely formal matter and without fruitful results.

In a letter addressed to Colonel Harvey in 1914 I had expressed the opinion that the reduced
Democratic majority in the Congressional elections of 1914, which was being construed as an
apparent defeat of the party, was not a final judgment upon the work of the President and the
achievements of his administration; that it was not a reversal irretrievable in character;
that it should not depress the Democratic workers throughout the country, and that the field
of conquest for the Democratic party in 1916 was the West and the Pacific coast. A calm analysis
of the election results in 1914 convinced me that if the Presidential election of 1916 was
to be won, our efforts for victory had to be concentrated upon a cultivation of sentiment throughout
the West in favour of the Democratic cause.

My letter to Colonel Harvey is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    November 7, 1914.

    DEAR COLONEL HARVEY:

    Now that the clouds have cleared away, let me send you just a line or
    two expressing an opinion of last Tuesday's election.

    It is my feeling that we are making unmistakable gains in sections of
    the country where Democratic hopes never ran high before this time.
    Note the results in the states of Utah, Michigan, Minnesota,
    Wisconsin, South Dakota, North Dakota, Washington and California. It
    now appears from the returns, regardless of what the Eastern papers
    may say, that our majority in the House will be approximately from
    thirty-five to forty; that our majority in the Senate will be sixteen.

    We have elected for the first time in the history of the Democratic
    party, so far as I can recall, Democratic Senators in the great
    Republican States of California, Wisconsin and South Dakota. The gains
    we have made in the West, along the Pacific coast, are mighty
    interesting and show a new field of conquest for the Democratic party
    in 1916. To elect a congress, retaining a majority of the party in
    power, after a revision of the tariff, is unprecedented. Once before
    it happened, in 1897, after the passage of the Dingley Tariff Act when
    the Republican majority was reduced from 47 to 10. We are not in the
    least bit disturbed by the situation. We have for the first time
    elected Democratic Congressmen from the states of Utah, Washington,
    South Dakota and North Dakota.

    With best wishes, I am,
    Cordially and sincerely yours,
      J. P. TUMULTY,
     Secretary To The President.

    COLONEL GEORGE HARVEY,
      Hotel Chamberlain,
     Old Point Comfort, Virginia.

While the Democratic Convention was in session at St. Louis the President remained in the White
House, keeping in close touch by direct telephonic communication with affairs there.

What at first appeared to be an ordinary and rather spiritless convention was quickly turned
into a most enthusiastic and fervent one by the notable speeches of Governor Glynn, of New
York, the temporary chairman of the Convention, and Senator Ollie M. James, of Kentucky, the
permanent chairman.

The key-note speech delivered by Governor Glynn, contained this ringing defense of the President's
policy of neutrality:

    "This policy may not satisfy those who revel in destruction and find
    pleasure in despair. It may not satisfy the fire-eater or the
    swashbuckler but it does satisfy those who worship at the altar of the
    god of peace. It does satisfy the mothers of the land at whose hearth
    and fireside no jingoistic war has placed an empty chair. It does
    satisfy the daughters of the land from whom bluster and brag have sent
    no loving brother to the dissolution of the grave. It does satisfy the
    fathers of this land and the sons of this land who will fight for our
    flag, and die for our flag when Reason primes the rifle, when Honor
    draws the sword, when Justice breathes a blessing on the standards
    they uphold."

And Senator James in a masterly oration paid this splendid tribute to Woodrow Wilson:

    "Four years ago they sneeringly called Woodrow Wilson the school-
    teacher; then his classes were assembled within the narrow walls of
    Princeton College. They were the young men of America. To-day he is
    the world teacher, his class is made up of kings, kaisers, czars,
    princes, and potentates. The confines of the schoolroom circle the
    world. His subject is the protection of American life and American
    rights under international law. The saving of neutral life, the
    freedom of the seas, and without orphaning a single American child,
    without widowing a single American mother, without firing a single
    gun, without the shedding of a single drop of blood, he has wrung from
    the most militant spirit that ever brooded above a battlefield an
    acknowledgment of American rights and an agreement to American
    demands."

These eloquent utterances prepared the way for the great slogan of the 1916 campaign: "He kept
us out of war."

The President himself never used that slogan, however. From the first declaration of hostilities
in Europe he realized the precarious position of the United States and the possibility that,
whether we would or not, we might be swept into the conflict. As early as August, 1914, he
expressed his anxious apprehension that "something might occur on the high seas which would
make our neutrality impossible." He emphatically believed at that time that America's neutrality
would best serve the interests of the world; he respected the American tradition of noninterference
in European quarrels; with his almost mystic ability to assess and understand the opinion of
the people of the country at large he knew that the American people did not want war; in his
comparative seclusion he read the mind of America clearer than did the "mixers" of the Pullman
smoking compartments who mistook the clamour for intervention among certain classes along the
north Atlantic seaboard for the voice of America at large; while the German rape of Belgium
stirred his passionate indignation, he knew that there was no practical means by which the
United States could stop it, that we could not immediately transport armies to the theatre
of war, and that public opinion, especially in the West and South, was not prepared for active
intervention; and in addition to all this he was genuinely, not merely professedly, a passionate
lover of peace. But with all this he, realizing the magnitude of the war, had already glimpsed
its wider significance, which caused him to say later that "this is the last war of its kind,
or of any kind that involves the world, that the United States can keep out of. The business
of neutrality is over." He saw that if the war should continue long, as it promised to do,
our participation might be inevitable and the American tradition of isolation for ever destroyed
by circumstances beyond human control. With patience mingled with firmness, he trod his difficult
path, doing all he could to keep us from getting involved without sacrificing fundamental principles
of human and national rights, but he neither believed nor pretended to believe that he could
give guaranties for the future. Nor did any of those who were closest to him make rash promises.
For instance, the Cabinet officers who actively participated in the campaign were careful to
say in their speeches that he had done all that a president could honourably do to keep us
out of war and that he could be depended upon to continue in the future the same course so
long as it should prove humanly possible, for "peace" was not merely a word on his lips but
a passion in his heart, but that neither he nor any other mortal could "look into the seeds
of time" and say what would be and what would not be. The event was on the knees of the gods.
Those who spoke with responsibility adhered strictly to the tense of the verb, the past tense:
"kept." None rashly used, explicitly or by implication, the future tense: "will keep." In strictest
truth they recited what had been, and, from their knowledge of the President's character and
convictions, said that he would not be driven into war by the clamour of his critics, that
he would refrain from hostility so long as it was humanly and honourably possible to refrain.

The President had sent Secretary of War Baker to the Convention to represent him before the
various committees and to collaborate with the Committee on Resolutions in the preparation
of a suitable platform.

Shortly after Mr. Baker's arrival in St. Louis the question of the attitude of the Convention
and the party toward the "hyphen" vote came up for consideration, and there were indications
that certain members of the Committee on Resolutions were inclined to ignore the matter of
the hyphen and to remain silent on this grave issue.

While the Committee on Resolutions was meeting at St. Louis, it was reported to me by Mr. Henry
C. Campbell, one of the editors of the Milwaukee Journal, and a devoted friend, that the Democratic
party, through its representatives on the Committee on Resolutions, was engaged in "pussyfooting"
on the hyphen issue and that this would result in bitter disappointment to the country. At
the time of the receipt of this telephone message from St. Louis the President was away from
town for a day and I called his attention to it in the following letter:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    June 13, 1916.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    It is clear, as the editorial appearing in this morning's New York
    World says, that the "hyphenate vote is a definite factor that
    cannot be discredited"; and that from the activities of the German-
    American Alliance every effort, as their own supporters declare,
    should be made to elect Justice Hughes. That there is abundant proof
    of this is clear, so that he who runs may read. This is evident from
    the attitude of the German-American press, and from the statements of
    professional German agitators, and from the campaign that has been
    carried on against you from the very beginning.

    I have not read the platform to be proposed by you. The only part that
    I have any knowledge of is that which you read to me over the
    telephone some nights ago; that had to do with the question of
    Americanism.

    Frankly, your mention of Americanism is on all fours with the
    declarations found in the Bull Moose and regular Republican platforms.
    The characteristic of all these references to Americanism is vagueness
    and uncertainty as to what is really meant. I believe that the time
    has come when the Democratic party should set forth its position on
    this vital matter in no uncertain terms. Efforts will soon be made,
    from stories now appearing in the newspapers, by professional German-
    Americans, to dominate our Convention, either in an effort to
    discredit you or to have embodied in the platform some reference to
    the embargo question, or a prohibition against the sale of munitions
    of war. We ought to meet these things in a manly, aggressive and
    militant fashion. It is for that reason that I suggest an open letter
    to the chairman of the Committee on Resolutions, setting forth your
    position in this matter so that the Convention may know before it
    nominates you the things for which you stand. Mr. Baker at the
    Convention will doubtless know when the representatives of the German-
    American Alliance make their appearance, asking for consideration at
    the hands of the Committee of their resolutions. As soon as they do,
    it appears to me to be the time for you to strike.

    I discussed this matter over the telephone yesterday with Mr. Henry C.
    Campbell, one of our devoted friends, and editor of the Milwaukee
    Journal. Mr. Frank Polk, Counsellor of the State Department, who was
    at the Convention, tells me that he was discussing this matter with
    Mr. Nieman, of the Milwaukee Journal, and that Mr. Nieman made the
    statement that both parties were "pussyfooting" and that he would not
    support the Democratic party unless its attitude in this matter was
    unequivocal. When Mr. Campbell discussed this matter with me over the
    telephone, I told him to send me a telegram, setting forth what he
    thought ought to find lodgment in the platform, by way of expressing
    our attitude in the matter. This morning I received the attached
    telegram from Senator Husting, expressing Mr. Campbell's and Mr.
    Nieman's views. The part I have underlined I think should be expressed
    in less emphatic language.

    The purpose of this letter, therefore, is to urge you as strongly as I
    can to address at once an open letter to the chairman of the Committee
    on Resolutions, expressing fully your views in the matter.

    TUMULTY.

As a result of the Husting telegram, the President wired Secretary Baker, insisting upon a
definite and unequivocal repudiation of the hyphen vote. The President's "fighting" telegram
to Baker which contained the substance of Husting's telegram resulted in the insertion in the
platform of the following plank:

    Whoever, actuated by the purpose to promote the interest of a foreign
    power, in disregard of our own country's welfare or to injure this
    Government in its foreign relations or cripple or destroy its
    industries at home, and whoever by arousing prejudices of a racial,
    religious or other nature creates discord and strife among our people
    so as to obstruct the wholesome processes of unification, is faithless
    to the trust which the privileges of citizenship repose in him and is
    disloyal to his country. We, therefore, condemn as subversive of this
    nation's unity and integrity, and as destructive of its welfare, the
    activities and designs of every group or organization, political or
    otherwise, that has for its object the advancement of the interest of
    a foreign power, whether such object is promoted by intimidating the
    Government, a political party, or representatives of the people, or
    which is calculated and tends to divide our people into antagonistic
    groups and thus to destroy that complete agreement and solidarity of
    the people and that unity of sentiment and purpose so essential to the
    perpetuity of the nation and its free institutions. We condemn all
    alliances and combinations of individuals in this country of whatever
    nationality or descent, who agree and conspire together for the
    purpose of embarrassing or weakening the Government or of improperly
    influencing or coercing our public representatives in dealing or
    negotiating with any foreign power. We charge that such conspiracies
    among a limited number exist and have been instigated for the purpose
    of advancing the interests of foreign countries to the prejudice and
    detriment of our own country. We condemn any political party which in
    view of the activity of such conspirators, surrenders its integrity or
    modifies its policy.

There is no doubt that for a while after the Convention at Chicago which nominated Mr. Hughes
there was deep depression in the ranks of our party throughout the country, the opinion being
that the former Supreme Court Justice was an invincible foe. I had engaged in sharp controversies
with many of my friends, expressing the view that Mr. Hughes would not only be a sad disappointment
to the Republican managers, but that in his campaigning methods he would fall far short of
the expectations of his many Republican friends.

Previous to the nomination of Mr. Hughes the President was his cordial admirer and often spoke
to me in warm and generous terms of the work of Mr. Hughes as Governor of New York, which he
admired because of its progressive, liberal character. Previous to the Republican Convention,
he and I had often discussed the possible nominee of the Republican Convention. The President,
for some reason, could not be persuaded that Mr. Justice Hughes was a serious contender for
the nomination and often expressed the opinion that the idea of a nomination for the Presidency
was not even remotely in the thoughts of the then Justice of the Supreme Court. I did not share
this view. Although the newspaper men who conferred with Justice Hughes from day to day at
his home in Washington informed me of the Judge's feelings toward the nomination for the Presidency,
I was always strongly of the opinion that the Justice was in no way indifferent to the nomination
and that he was not inclined to go out of his way publicly to resent the efforts that his friends
were making to land it for him. When I expressed the opinion to the President, that as a matter
of fact Mr. Justice Hughes was a candidate and was doing nothing outwardly to express his disapproval
of the efforts being made by his friends, the President resented my statements.

There was a warm feeling of friendship on the part of all the members of the President's family
toward Mr. Justice Hughes, and at the Sayre wedding, held in the White House, one of Justice
Hughes' sons had played a prominent part. Owing to the personal feelings of friendship of the
whole Wilson family for Mr. Hughes, the curt character of the Justice's letter of resignation
to the President deeply wounded the President and the members of his family who had been Mr.
Hughes' stout defenders and supporters.

I recall that on the day Mr. Hughes was nominated, and after the news of his nomination was
published throughout the country, there came to the Executive offices a coloured messenger,
bearing the following abrupt note to the President:

    SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
      WASHINGTON, D. C.

    June 10, 1916.

    TO THE PRESIDENT:

    I hereby resign the office of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court
    of the United States.

    I am, Sir,
    Respectfully yours,
      CHARLES E. HUGHES.

When I brought this letter of resignation to the White House the President was in conference
with that sturdy Democrat from Kentucky, Senator Ollie M. James. When the President read the
letter and observed its rather harsh character he was deeply wounded and disappointed. When
he showed it to Senator James, the Senator read it and advised that by reason of its character
the President ought not to dignify it by any acknowledgment. The President turned quickly to
the Kentucky statesman and said: "No, my dear Senator, the President of the United States must
always do the gentlemanly thing."

The President replied to Mr. Hughes in the following note:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    June 10, 1916.

    DEAR MR. JUSTICE HUGHES:

    I am in receipt of your letter of resignation and feel constrained to
    yield to your desire. I, therefore, accept your resignation as Justice
    of the Supreme Court of the United States to take effect at once.

    Sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    HON. CHARLES E. HUGHES,
      Washington, D. C.

On the first of August, 1916, I prepared the following memorandum which explained my feelings
regarding the campaign of 1916 and what appeared to me to be the weakness of the Republican
party and the strength of our own candidacy:

    One of the principal arguments upon which the Republican managers lay
    great stress in favour of Hughes' candidacy is his strength as a
    campaigner as evidenced in his Youngstown speech delivered years ago
    in a campaign in which Mr. Bryan was the leader of the Democratic
    hosts. The strength of that speech lies in its cool analysis of the
    attitude of a great emotional orator [Bryan] on public questions at a
    time when the Democracy was advocating economic principles of doubtful
    strength and virtue. In other words, the position of Justice Hughes in
    that campaign was that of attacking an economic principle which had
    cut the Democratic party in two.

    The position of Hughes as a candidate in this the [1916] campaign will
    be radically different for he will have to face a candidate
    representing a united party; one whose power of analysis is as great
    as Hughes', and to this will be added this feature of strength in the
    Democratic candidate--the power of appeal to the emotional or
    imaginative side of the American people. Added to this will be the
    strength of conviction in urging his cause that comes to a man who has
    passed through a world crisis amid great dangers and who has brought
    to consummation substantial (not visionary) achievements unparalleled
    in the political history of the country. He will not speak to the
    country as the representative of a party divided in its counsels or as
    a dreamer or doctrinaire, but rather will he stand before the country
    as the practical idealist, defending, not apologizing for, every
    achievement of his administration.

    In his Youngstown speech, Justice Hughes found no difficulty in
    attacking the economic theories of Bryan. In this attack he not only
    had the sympathy of his own party but there came to him the support of
    many Democrats. In this campaign he will have to attack achievements
    and not principles of doubtful virtue. I predict that the trip of
    Hughes to the West will be a disastrous failure.

When Justice Hughes' Western trip was announced, there was consternation in the ranks of the
Democratic party, especially those Democrats with whom I came in contact in Washington. They
declared that he would make a tremendous impression on the West and that he would destroy that
great salient, and make it impossible for the Democrats to make any gains there.

In a letter which I addressed to Mr. Raymond T. Baker, Director of the Mint, I expressed the
opinion that Mr. Hughes' Western trip would prove as distinct a disappointment to his friends
as had his speech of acceptance. The letter is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    August 4, 1916.

    DEAR RAY:

    You have rightly sensed the feelings of the East as to the Hughes
    speech of acceptance, and I was indeed glad to know from your
    telegram, which came as welcome news from you, that the sentiment that
    the speech was a hit-and-miss affair was well nigh universal
    throughout the West.

    There is no apparent slump that I can find here in Democratic ranks;
    the same buoyancy and optimism which pervaded the whole Washington
    atmosphere while you were here still predominate.

    My belief is that Hughes' trip to the West will prove another
    distinct disappointment to his friends. A candidate following the
    path of expediency as exemplified by Hughes will find himself in an
    unenviable position in the West, merely criticizing, finding fault,
    and setting forth no policy of a constructive character.

    As I told you and the boys some weeks ago, Mr. Hughes is going to
    prove a distinct disappointment as a candidate. He is so eager for
    the office that he will follow any path that may lead to it, even
    though it may be the rough path of expediency. We face the foe
    unafraid, and will soon have our big guns trained upon the frowning
    fortresses of the enemy. They look formidable at this time, but as we
    approach them it is my belief that they will be found to be made of
    cardboard and will fall at the touch of the President's logic and the
    record of his great achievements.

    Sincerely yours,
      TUMULTY.

    MR. RAYMOND T. BAKER,
      Oakland, California.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE ADAMSON LAW

Between the Democratic Convention and the time of his departure for his summer home at Long
Branch, New Jersey, the President was engaged in Washington in completing the most important
items of his legislative programme, including the Income Tax, Child Labour Law, and the Adamson
Eight-Hour Law.

A disastrous strike, involving the whole system of railroad transportation, now seemed imminent.
At this critical juncture the President intervened. On August 13th he invited the disputants,
before reaching any final decision, to confer with him personally at Washington. His intervention
evoked general expressions of relief and approval.

At these conferences the railway men stood firm for an eight-hour day. The railway managers
refused these demands. How to meet this grave situation, which if not checked might have resulted
in giving Germany a victory, was one of the pressing problems that confronted the President
that critical summer. Not only were American business interests involved in this matter, but
the Allied governments of western Europe, then in the throes of the great war, were no less
anxious, for a railroad strike would have meant a cutting off of the supplies to the Allied
forces that were so much needed at this important juncture.

The President sent for the Brotherhood representatives and for the managers, to confer with
him at the White House, and suggested arbitration by way of settling the controversy. The labour
leaders, conscious of their strength, refused to arbitrate. The railroad managers were equally
obdurate. I well remember the patience of the President at these conferences day after day.
He would first hold conferences with the Brotherhood representatives and then with the railroad
managers; but his efforts were unavailing. It is regrettable that the men on both sides were
indifferent to the President's appeal and apparently unmindful of the consequences to the country
that would inevitably follow a nation-wide strike.

I remember what he said to me as he left the Green Room at the conclusion of his final conference
with the heads of the Brotherhoods. Shaking his head in a despairing way, he said: "I was not
able to make the slightest impression upon those men. They feel so strongly the justice of
their cause that they are blind to all the consequences of their action in declaring and prosecuting
a strike. I was shocked to find a peculiar stiffness and hardness about these men. When I pictured
to them the distress of our people in case this strike became a reality, they sat unmoved and
apparently indifferent to the seriousness of the whole bad business. I am at the end of my
tether, and I do not know what further to do."

His conferences with the managers were equally unproductive of result. Gathered about him in
a semicircle in his office, they were grim and determined men, some of them even resentful
of the President's attempt to suggest a settlement of any kind to prevent the strike. I shall
never forget his last appeal to them. I sat in a little room off the Cabinet room and could
hear what went on. Seated about him were the heads of all the important railroads in the country.
Looking straight at them, he said: "I have not summoned you to Washington as President of the
United States to confer with me on this matter, for I have no power to do so. I have invited
you merely as a fellow-citizen to discuss this great and critical situation. Frankly, I say
to you that if I had the power as President I would say to you that this strike is unthinkable
and must not be permitted to happen. What I want you to see, if you will, is the whole picture
that presents itself to me and visualize the terrible consequences to the country and its people
of a nation-wide strike at this time, both as affecting our own people and in its effect upon
the Allied forces across the sea. For a moment I wish you to forget that I am President, and
let us as fellow-citizens consider the consequences of such action. A nation-wide strike at
this time would mean absolute famine and starvation for the people of America. You gentlemen
must understand just what this means. Will your interests be served by the passions and hatreds
that will flow from such an unhappy condition in the country? If this strike should occur,
forces will be released that may threaten the security of everything we hold dear. Think of
its effect upon the people of this country who must have bread to eat and coal to keep them
warm. They will not quietly submit to a strike that will keep these things of life away from
them. The rich will not suffer in case these great arteries of trade and commerce are temporarily
abandoned, for they can provide themselves against the horror of famine and the distress of
this critical situation. It is the poor unfortunate men, and their wives and children, who
will suffer and die. I cannot speak to you without a show of emotion, for, my friends, beneath
the surface in America there is a baneful seething which may express itself in radical action,
the consequences of which no man can foresee. In asking your cooperation to settle this dispute
I am but striving, as we stand in the shadow of a great war, to keep these forces in check
and under control."

Getting closer to the men, and lowering his voice, he said: "The Allies are fighting our battle,
the battle of civilization, across the way. They cannot 'carry on' without supplies and means
of sustenance which the railroads of America bring to them. I am probably asking you to make
a sacrifice at this time, but is not the sacrifice worth while because of the things involved?
Only last night I was thinking about this war and its far-reaching effects. No man can foresee
its extent or its evil effects upon the world itself. It is a world cataclysm, and before it
ends it may unsettle everything fine and wholesome in America. We of America, although we are
cut off from its terrible sweep, cannot be unmindful of these consequences, for we stand in
the midst of it all. We must keep our own house in order so that we shall be prepared to act
when action becomes necessary. Who knows, gentlemen, but by to-morrow a situation will arise
where it shall be found necessary for us to get into the midst of this bloody thing? You can
see, therefore, that we must go to the very limit to prevent a strike that would bring about
a paralysis of these arteries of trade and commerce. If you will agree with me in this matter,
I will address Congress and frankly ask for an increase of rates and do everything I can to
make up for the loss you may sustain. I know that the things I ask you to do may be disagreeable
and inconvenient, but I am not asking you to make a bloody sacrifice. Our boys may be called
upon any minute to make that sacrifice for us."

On August 29, 1916, the President appeared before a joint session of the Congress and recommended
immediate legislation to avert the impending strike. Following this, the chairman of the Interstate
Commerce Commission of the House, Mr. Adamson, of Georgia, brought in a bill, now known as
the Adamson Eight-Hour Law, which, after several unsuccessful attempts by members of the House
and Senate to amend it, was signed by the President on September 5th.

CHAPTER XXV

GERMAN PROPAGANDA

Early in January, 1916, German sympathizers throughout the country began a drive on both Houses
of Congress for the passage of a resolution warning or forbidding Americans to travel on passenger
ships belonging to citizens or subjects of the belligerent nations. Petitions of various kinds,
demanding vigorous action in this matter, began to pour in upon us at the White House from
various parts of the country. While these petitions were signed by many devoted, patriotic
Americans, it was clear to those of us who were on the inside of affairs that there lay back
of this movement a sinister purpose on the part of German sympathizers in this country to give
Germany full sway upon the high seas, in order that she might be permitted to carry on her
unlawful and inhuman submarine warfare. This movement became so intense that leading Democratic
and Republican senators and representatives soon became its ardent advocates, until it looked
as if the resolution might pass with only a small minority found in opposition to it. Those
of us who were in the Executive offices, and intimately associated with the President, kept
in close touch with the situation on Capitol Hill and were advised that the movement for the
resolution was in full swing and that it could not be checked. A resolution was finally introduced
by Representative McLemore, of Texas, and quickly received the support of Senator Gore of Oklahoma,
and Senator Stone of Missouri, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations. What the attitude
of the President should be toward it was the subject of discussion between the President, two
of his Cabinet officers, and myself, after a session of the Cabinet early in February, 1916.

The President was advised by the Cabinet officers with whom he conferred regarding the matter
that it would be a hopeless task on his part to attempt to stem the tide that was now running
in favour of the passage of the McLemore resolution, and that were he to attempt to prevent
its passage it might result in a disastrous defeat of his leadership, that would seriously
embarrass him on Capitol Hill and throughout the nation.

At the conclusion of this conference the President asked me whether my information about affairs
on Capitol Hill and the attitude of the members of the House and Senate toward the McLemore
resolution was in accord with the information he had just received from his Cabinet officers.
I told him that it was, but that so far as I was concerned I did not share the opinion of the
Cabinet officers and did not agree with the advice which they had volunteered, to the effect
that it would be useless for him to throw down the gage of battle to those who sought to pass
the McLemore resolution. I informed him that regardless of what the attitude of those on Capitol
Hill was toward the resolution, he could not afford to allow the matter to pass without a protest
from him, and that, indeed, he could afford to be defeated in making a fight to maintain American
rights upon the high seas. The discussion between the President, the Cabinet officers, and
myself became heated. They were reluctant to have the President go into the fight, while I
was most anxious to have him do so. Evidently, what I said made an impression upon the President
and he asked me, as our conference was concluded, to let him have as soon as possible a memorandum
containing my views upon the subject.

Shortly after the conference, Senator Stone, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations
of the Senate, asked for an appointment with the President, to confer with him on the next
morning, February 25th, regarding the McLemore resolution. I suggested to the President that
inasmuch as Senator Stone was to see him in the morning it would be wise and prudent if, in
answer to his letter asking for an appointment, the President should frankly state his views
with reference to the proposed resolution. The President acted upon this suggestion and the
letter was immediately dispatched to Senator Stone.

My letter to the President, advising him of the situation, was as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    February 24, 1916.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    What I have heard since leaving you this morning confirms me in my
    belief that now is the time (before the night passes) to set forth
    your position to the country on the McLemore resolution in terms that
    no one can misunderstand. In the last hour I have talked with Speaker
    Clark, Senator Pittman, and Mr. Sims of Tennessee, and have received
    impressions from them which lead me to conclude: first, that the
    consideration of this resolution cannot much longer be postponed, as
    Speaker Clark so informed me, although Congressman Doremus and Senator
    Pittman say the situation on the hill is quieting down. I am more than
    convinced that underlying this resolution is a purpose to discredit
    your leadership, for the forces that are lined up for this fight
    against you are the anti-preparedness crowd, the Bryan-Kitchen-Clark
    group, and some of the anti-British Senators like Hoke Smith and Gore.
    Therefore, I cannot urge you too strongly at once to send an identic
    letter to both Representative Flood, chairman of the Foreign Relations
    Committee of the House, and Senator Stone, chairman of the Foreign
    Relations Committee of the Senate. The letter, in my opinion, should
    embody the following ideas:

    First, explain in the frankest fashion just what Secretary Lansing
    attempted to obtain when he suggested to the Entente nations an
    agreement on the arming of merchantmen, how this government was
    informed by Germany of her intention to destroy armed merchantmen
    without giving the passengers a moment of warning, and how, in order
    to stave off such a contingency, we tried as the friend and in the
    interest of humanity to get an agreement between both sides that would
    bring submarine warfare within the bounds of international law.

    Second, explain that a possible adjustment of this matter is in
    process of negotiation right now, and that, of course, while we cannot
    change international law upon our own initiative, we are still of the
    hope that some general agreement among the belligerents may eventually
    be obtained. Explain how embarrassing such a resolution as the
    McLemore one will be to negotiations now being threshed out between
    the executive branches of the Government charged with the conduct of
    foreign relations, and foreign governments.

    Third, then say that in the absence of any general agreement, the
    United States cannot yield one inch of her rights without destroying
    the whole fabric of international law, for in the last analysis this
    is what is involved. To yield one right to-day means another to-
    morrow. We cannot know where this process of yielding on the ground of
    convenience or expediency may lead us. These laws are the product of
    centuries. Our forefathers fought to establish their validity, and we
    cannot afford for the sake of convenience when our very life is
    threatened, to abandon them on any ground of convenience or
    expediency.

    Fourth, to pass such a resolution at this time would seriously
    embarrass the Department of State and the Executive in the conduct of
    these most delicate matters at a time when everything is being done to
    bring about a peaceful solution of these problems.

    Fifth, might you not diplomatically suggest, in your letter to Senator
    Stone, that to pass favorably upon a resolution of this kind at this
    time would be showing lack of confidence in the Government, and
    particularly in its Chief Executive?

    The morning papers have outlined the details of the opposition among
    the Democrats. The afternoon papers are repeating the same thing with
    emphasis on the fact that Joe Cannon, Jim Mann, and Lodge are going to
    support you. I would suggest that you insert the following in your
    letter to Senator Stone:

        "I think that not only would such a vote on this resolution be
        construed as a lack of confidence in the executive branch of the
        Government in this most delicate matter but if the division
        continues as I am informed within the ranks of the Democratic
        party, it will be difficult for me to consider that the majority
        party speaks the will of the nation in these circumstances and as
        between any faction in my party and the interests of the nation, I
        must always choose the latter, irrespective of what the effect
        will be on me or my personal fortunes.

    Sincerely,
      TUMULTY.

The letter of the President to Senator Stone was published in the morning papers of February
25, 1916, and is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    February 25, 1916.

    MY DEAR SENATOR:

    I very warmly appreciate your kind and frank letter of to-day, and
    feel that it calls for an equally frank reply. You are right in
    assuming that I shall do everything in my power to keep the United
    States out of war. I think the country will feel no uneasiness about
    my course in that respect. Through many anxious months I have striven
    for that object, amid difficulties more manifold than can have been
    apparent upon the surface, and so far I have succeeded. I do not doubt
    that I shall continue to succeed.

    The course which the central European powers have announced their
    intention of following in the future with regard to undersea warfare
    seems for the moment to threaten insuperable obstacles, but its
    apparent meaning is so manifestly inconsistent with explicit
    assurances recently given us by those powers with regard to their
    treatment of merchant vessels on the high seas that I must believe
    that explanations will presently ensue which will put a different
    aspect upon it.

    I am speaking, my dear Senator, in deep solemnity, without heat, with
    a clear consciousness of the high responsibilities of my office and as
    your sincere and devoted friend. If we should unhappily differ, we
    shall differ as friends, but where issues so momentous as these are
    involved we must, just because we are friends, speak our minds without
    reservation.

    Faithfully yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    SENATOR WILLIAM J. STONE,
      United States Senate.

The publication of the letter of the President to Senator Stone worked a complete reversal
of opinion on the Hill.

Quickly the effect of the President's letter was seen, and the McLemore resolution was overwhelmingly
defeated.

Early in August, 1916, the President took up his residence at Shadow Lawn, New Jersey, and
began the preparation of his speech of acceptance. He forwarded me a draft of this speech which
brought from me the following comment upon it:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    August 22, 1916.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I think the failure to bring out the hyphen question in your speech of
    acceptance will be vigorously criticized even by our loyal friends.
    Mr. Hughes will soon be compelled to speak out on this question.
    Roosevelt's speeches in the main will force him to do this. You might
    open the subject in that part of your speech in which you discuss
    neutrality, showing the embarrassments under which you have laboured
    in trying to keep the Nation at peace. After discussing these
    embarrassments, consisting of plots against our industries, etc.,
    could you not introduce a sentence like this?: "While I am the
    candidate of the Democratic party, I am above all else an American
    citizen. I neither seek the favour nor fear the wrath of any alien
    element in America which puts loyalty to any foreign power first."

    As to Huerta: I believe your reference to him could be strengthened. I
    think you ought to bring out the fact that the work of assassination
    shall never receive the endorsement, so far as you are concerned, of
    this American Republic. I suggest the following: "The United States
    will refuse, so long as that power remains with me, to extend the hand
    of welcome to one who gains power in a republic through treachery and
    bloodshed." (This is not only sound statesmanship but good morals.)
    "No permanency in the affairs of our sister republics can be attained
    by a title based upon intrigue and assassination."

    Respectfully,
      TUMULTY.

The President, always welcoming advice, approved and embodied some of these suggestions in
his speech of acceptance.

It has often been said by unfair critics that Mr. Wilson was so tenacious of his own opinion
and views that he resented suggestions from the outside in any matter with which he was called
upon to deal.

As an intimate associate of his for eleven years, I think I was in a position to find out and
to know how unfair the basis of this criticism really was. In my contact with public men I
never met a more open-minded man; nor one who was more willing to act upon any suggestion that
had merit in it. I have seen him readily give up his own views and often yield to the influence
of a better argument. I always felt free in every public matter that he discussed and in every
attitude which he took on public questions frankly to express my own opinion and openly to
disagree with him. In his speeches and public statements he had no pride of opinion, nor did
he attempt to hold his friends off at arms' length when they had suggestions of any kind to make.

In these reminiscences I am including my letters to him, embodying suggestions of various kinds,
many of which he acted upon and many of which he rejected, in order that proof may be given
of the fact, that despite what his critics may say, he not only did not resent suggestions,
but openly invited them.

CHAPTER XXVI

WILSON VERSUS HUGHES

After the delivery of the speech of acceptance on September 2nd quiet ruled over the Wilson
camp at Shadow Lawn. This lull in the matter of politics was intensified by the President's
absence from Shadow Lawn because of the death of his only sister, which called him away and
for a while took his mind and his energies from the discussion of politics.

On September 11th, the state elections in Maine were carried by the Republicans. The total
vote was the largest ever cast in Maine in a state election. The Republican majorities ranged
from 9,000 to 14,000. There had been a vigorous contest in Maine by both parties and the Republicans
were greatly heartened by the result in the hope that "as goes Maine so goes the Union."

There is no doubt that the result in Maine, which many Democrats were of the opinion was a
forecast of the results throughout the nation in November, had a depressing effect. The Republicans
accepted it as a harbinger of victory and the Democrats as an indication of defeat. On the
night of the Maine elections I kept close to the telephone at the Executive offices and engaged
in conferences with two or three practical politicians from New Jersey. It was interesting
to watch the effects of the returns from Maine upon these men. When the returns, as complete
as we could get them at twelve o'clock on the night of September 11th, came in, James Nugent,
one of the leading politicians of Essex County, New Jersey, who was in the room, took from
my desk a copy of the "World Almanac", and referring to the returns of previous elections,
said: "Of course, the Republicans will hail this as a great victory, but if they will sit down
and analyze the gains they have made, they will find no comfort in them, for to me they indicate
a Democratic victory in November. If the Democrats make proportionate gains in other states,
you can absolutely count upon a Democratic victory in 1916."

This prophecy was verified by the results of the election of November 7th.

It was difficult and almost impossible between the date of the speech of acceptance and the
first of October to revive interest in the Democratic campaign and to bring about a renewal
of hope of success that had almost been destroyed by the psychological results of the Maine
election.

Frequent demands were made upon us at the Executive offices at Asbury Park to get busy and
to do something. "Wilson was not on the front page and Hughes was busily engaged in campaigning
throughout the West." But the President in his uncanny way knew better than we the psychological
moment to strike. He went about his work at the Executive offices and gave to us who were closely
associated with him the impression that nothing unusual was afoot and that no Presidential
campaign was impending. I made frequent suggestions to him that he be up and doing. He would
only smile and calmly say: "The moment is not here. Let them use up their ammunition and then
we will turn our guns upon them."

The psychological moment came, and the President took full advantage of it. One afternoon in
September the President telephoned me at the Executive offices at Asbury Park to have the newspaper
men present for a conference that afternoon; that he would give out a reply to a telegram he
had received. With the newspaper group, I attended this conference. It appeared that an Irish
agitator named Jeremiah O'Leary, who had been organizing and speaking against the President
and trying to array the Irish vote against him, wrote an offensive letter to the President,
calling attention to the results of the Maine elections and to the New Jersey primaries, and
to his anticipated defeat in November. The President handed to the newspaper men the following
reply to O'Leary:

    I would feel deeply mortified to have you or anybody like you vote for
    me. Since you have access to many disloyal Americans and I have not, I
    will ask you to convey this message to them.

This sharp and timely rebuke to the unpatriotic spirit to which O'Leary gave expression won
the hearty and unanimous approval of the country to the President. Nothing like this bold defiance
came from Hughes until a few days before the election.

The Democratic campaign, within twenty-four hours after the publication of the O'Leary telegram,
was on again in full swing.

At this same newspaper conference the President, who had not seen the newspaper group since
his arrival at Long Branch, discussed the campaign, so that they might have what he called
the "inside of his mind." His criticism of the campaign that Justice Hughes was conducting
contained bitter irony and, sarcasm. Evidently, the petty things to which Mr. Hughes had adverted
in his campaign speeches by way of criticizing the President and his administration had cut
the President to the quick. One of the newspaper men asked him what he thought of Mr. Hughes'
campaign, and he laughingly replied: "If you will give that gentleman rope enough he will hang
himself. He has forgotten many things since he closeted himself on the bench, and he will soon
find himself out of touch with the spirit of the nation. His speeches are nothing more or less
than blank cartridges and the country, unless I mistake the people very much, will place a
true assessment upon them."

The newspaper men left this conference heartened by the reply he had made to O'Leary and with
the firm conviction that the Democratic candidate was just "playing" with Hughes and would
pounce upon him at the psychological moment.

In the delivery of the campaign speeches at Shadow Lawn each Saturday afternoon President Wilson
took full advantage of the swing toward the Democratic side which was manifest after the publication
of the famous O'Leary telegram. While the Republican candidate was busily engaged in invading
the West in his swing around the circle, the Democratic candidate each week from his porch
at Shadow Lawn was delivering sledge-hammer blows at the Republican breastworks. As the Republican
candidate in an effort to win the West was heaping maledictions upon Dr. E. Lester Jones, the
head of the Geodetic Survey, a Wilson appointee, the President calmly moved on, ripping to
pieces and tearing to shreds the poor front behind which the Republican managers were seeking
to win the fight.

Mr. Hughes campaigned like a lawyer, Mr. Wilson like a statesman. Mr. Hughes was hunting small
game with bird shot, Mr. Wilson trained heavy artillery on the enemies' central position. The
essential difference between the two men and the operations of their minds was made clear in
the campaign. No one would wish to minimize the unusual abilities of Mr. Hughes, but they are
the abilities of an adroit lawyer. He makes "points." He pleases those minds which like cleverness
and finesse. He deals with international affairs like an astute lawyer drawing a brief. But
has he ever quickened the nation's pulse or stirred its heart by a single utterance? Did he
ever make any one feel that behind the formalities of law, civil or international, he detected
the heartbeats of humanity whom law is supposedly designed to serve? Mr. Wilson was not thinking
of Mr. Hughes, but perhaps he was thinking of the type of which Mr. Hughes is an eminent example
when he said in Paris: "This is not to be a lawyers' peace."

Every speech of President Wilson's was, to use a baseball phrase, a home run for the Democratic
side. They were delivered without much preparation and were purely extemporaneous in character.
The Republican opposition soon began to wince under the smashing blows delivered by the Democratic
candidate, and outward proof was soon given of the fear and despair that were now gathering
in the Republican ranks. With a few short trips to the West, and his final speech at Long Branch,
President Wilson closed his campaign, with Democratic hopes on the rise.

The happenings of Election Day, 1916, will long linger in my memory. I was in charge of the
Executive offices located at Asbury Park, while the President remained at Shadow Lawn, awaiting
the news of the first returns from the country. The first scattered returns that filtered in
to the Executive offices came from a little fishing town in Massachusetts early in the afternoon
of Election Day, which showed a slight gain for the President over the election returns of
1912. Then followed early drifts from Colorado and Kansas, which showed great Wilson gains.
Those of us who were interested in the President's cause were made jubilant by these early
returns. Every indication, though imperfect, up to seven o'clock on the night of the election,
forecasted the President's reelection.

In the early afternoon the President telephoned the Executive offices to inquire what news
we had received from the country and he was apprised of the results that had come in up to
that time. Then, quickly, the tide turned against us in the most unusual way. Between seven
and nine o'clock the returns slowly came in from the East and Middle West that undeniably showed
a drift away from us.

About nine-thirty o'clock in the evening I was seated in my office, when a noise outside in
the hallway attracted my attention and gave me the impression that something unusual was afoot.
The door of my office opened and there entered a galaxy of newspaper men connected with the
White House offices, led by a representative of the New York World, who held in his hands a
bulletin from his office, carrying the news of Hughes' election. The expression in the men's
faces told me that a crisis was at hand. The World man delivered his fateful message of defeat
for our forces, without explanation of any kind. To me the blow was stunning, for the New York
World had been one of our staunchest supporters throughout the whole campaign and yet, I had
faith to believe that the news carried in the bulletin would be upset by subsequent returns.
Steadying myself behind my desk, I quickly made up my mind as to what my reply should be to
the World bulletin and to the query of the newspaper men whether we were ready to "throw up
the sponge" and concede Hughes' election. Concealing the emotion I felt, I dictated the following
statement, which was flashed through the country:

    When Secretary Tumulty was shown the World bulletin, conceding
    Hughes' election, he authorized the following statement: "Wilson will
    win. The West has not yet been heard from. Sufficient gains will be
    made in the West and along the Pacific slope to offset the losses in
    the East."

Shortly after the flash from the World bulletin was delivered to me, conceding Hughes' election,
the President again telephoned me from Long Branch to find out the latest news of the election.
From what he said he had already been apprised by Admiral Grayson of the bulletin of the New
York World. Every happening of that memorable night is still fresh in my memory and I recall
distinctly just what the President said and how philosophically he received the news of his
apparent defeat. Laughingly he said: "Well, Tumulty, it begins to look as if we have been badly
licked." As he discussed the matter with me I could detect no note of sadness in his voice.
In fact, I could hear him chuckle over the 'phone. He seemed to take an impersonal view of
the whole thing and talked like a man from whose shoulders a great load had been lifted and
now he was happy and rejoicing that he was a free man again. When I informed him of the drifts
in our favour from other parts of the country and said that it was too early to concede anything,
he said: "Tumulty, you are an optimist. It begins to look as if the defeat might be overwhelming.
The only thing I am sorry for, and that cuts me to the quick, is that the people apparently
misunderstood us. But I have no regrets. We have tried to do our duty." So far as he was concerned,
the issue of the election was disposed of, out of the way and a settled thing. That was the
last telephone message between the President and myself until twenty-four hours later, when
the tide turned again in our favour.

An unusual incident occurred about 8:30 o'clock in the evening, shortly after my talk with
the President. I was called to the telephone and told that someone in New York wished to speak
to me on a highly important matter. I went to the 'phone. At the other end in New York was
an individual who refusing to give his name, described himself as a friend of our cause. I
thought he was one of the varieties of crank, with whom I had been accustomed to deal at the
White House on frequent occasions during my life there; but there was something about his talk
that convinced me that he was in close touch with someone in authority at Republican headquarters.
In his first talk with me, and in subsequent talks during the night of the election and on
the following day, there was a warning to us, in no way, or by the slightest sign, to give
up the fight, or to concede Hughes' election. He said: "Early returns will naturally run against
Wilson in the East, particularly in Illinois and Iowa," and intimated to me that the plan at
Republican headquarters would be to exaggerate these reports and to overwhelm us with news
of Republican victories throughout the country. Continuing his talk he said: "The Wilson fight
will be won in the West. I shall keep you advised of what is happening in Republican headquarters.
I can only tell you that I will know what is happening and you may rely upon the information
I shall give you."

All night long the loyal newspaper men and I kept vigil at the Executive offices. As I read
over the bulletins that came to me, particularly those from Republican headquarters in New
York, I was quick to notice that although the Republican managers were blatantly proclaiming
to the country that the fight was over, for some reason or other, the Republican candidate,
Mr. Hughes, who was at his headquarters at the Hotel Astor, was silent.

Just about this time there was another message from the mysterious stranger in New York. The
message, as I recall it, was as follows: "They [meaning the Republican managers] are trying
to induce Hughes to claim the election, but he is unwilling to make an announcement and is
asking for further returns. You boys stand pat. Returns that are now coming in are worrying
them. Don't be swept off your feet by claims from Republican headquarters. I know what is happening
there."

Shortly after this telephone message came a bulletin from Republican headquarters, stating
that the Republican managers were then in conference with Mr. Hughes and that a statement from
Mr. Hughes would soon be forthcoming. This unusual coincidence convinced me that the man who
was telephoning me either was on the inside of affairs at Republican headquarters, or had an
uncanny way of knowing just what the managers were doing.

Up to eleven o'clock every bit of news ran against us. Finally, the Brooklyn Eagle, a supporter
of the President, and then the New York Times, our last line of defense, gave way and conceded
Hughes' election, but the unterrified Democrats at the Executive offices stood out against
any admission of defeat.

The mysterious stranger was again on the wire, saying that there was consternation in the Republican
ranks; that George Perkins had just conferred with National Chairman Willcox and had left Willcox's
room, shaking his head and saying to one of the attaches of headquarters, that "things were
not looking well." A few minutes later a bulletin came from Republican headquarters confirming
the story the mysterious stranger had just told over the 'phone.

All the while I was keeping in touch with our headquarters in New York City, and about 10:30
o'clock Robert W. Woolley, the publicity man of the Democratic National Committee, 'phoned
me and advised me not to concede anything and assured me that the returns from the West, now
coming in greater drifts, indicated Wilson's reelection.

When I left the telephone booth, David Lawrence, the Washington correspondent of the New York
Evening Post, who a few weeks before had predicted, in a remarkable article, the election of
Wilson, and who was my friend and co-labourer during that night (in conjunction with Mr. L.
Ames Brown, a noted newspaper man of Washington, connected with the Democratic National Committee)
conferred with me, and from a table he had prepared showed me how the small states of the West,
which the returns indicated were now coming into the Wilson column, would elect the Democratic
candidate, and that under no circumstances must we, by any chance, in any statement, concede
the election of Hughes.

All night long telephone messages, very brief, would come from the mysterious stranger in New
York, and quickly there would follow bulletins from Republican headquarters confirming everything
that he said. These messages came so rapidly that I was soon convinced that this individual,
whoever he was, had the real inside of the Republican situation. So convinced was I that I
followed up my statement of the early evening with additional statements, claiming the election
for Mr. Wilson.

Just about the break of day on Wednesday morning, as David Lawrence, Ames Brown, and my son
Joe, were seated in my office, a room which overlooked a wide expanse of the Atlantic Ocean,
we were notified by Democratic headquarters of the first big drift toward Wilson. Ohio, which
in the early evening had been claimed by the Republicans, had turned to Wilson by an approximate
majority of sixty thousand; Kansas followed; Utah was leaning toward him; North Dakota and
South Dakota inclining the same way. The Wilson tide began to rise appreciably from that time
on, until state after state from the West came into the Wilson column. At five o'clock in the
morning the New York Times and the New York World recanted and were now saying that the election
of Mr. Hughes was doubtful.

Without sleep and without food, those of us at the Executive offices kept close to the telephone
wire. We never left the job for a minute. The last message from the mysterious stranger came
about one o'clock, the day following the election, when he 'phoned me that, "George Perkins
is now at Republican headquarters and is telephoning Roosevelt and will soon leave to inform
Roosevelt that, to use his own words, 'the jig is up,' and that Wilson is elected." Shortly
after, from Republican headquarters came a bulletin saying: "George Perkins is on his way to
confer with Mr. Roosevelt."

Some months after the election the mysterious stranger came to the White House offices, and
without identifying himself, informed me that he was the individual who on the night of the
election had kept me in touch with Republican headquarters, and then astounded me by telling
me that in some mysterious way, which he did not disclose, he had succeeded in breaking in
on the Republican National Committee wire and had listened in on every conversation that had
passed between Willcox, Hughes, George Perkins, Harvey, and Theodore Roosevelt himself during
the night of the election and the day following.

Mr. Wilson arose the morning after the election, confident that he had been defeated. He went
about his tasks in the usual way. The first news that he received that there had been a turn
in the tide came from his daughter, Margaret, who knocked on the door of the bathroom while
the President was shaving and told him of the "Extra" of the New York Times, saying that the
election was in doubt, with indications of a Wilson victory. The President thought that his
daughter was playing a practical joke on him and told her to "tell that to the Marines," and
went on about his shaving.

When the President and I discussed the visit of his daughter, Margaret, to notify him of his
reelection, he informed me that he was just beginning to enjoy the reaction of defeat when
he was notified that the tide had turned in his favour. This will seem unusual, but those of
us who were close to the man and who understood the trials and tribulations of the Presidency,
knew that he was in fact for the first time in four years enjoying the freedom of private life.

Mr. Wilson's imperturbability on election night was like that of sturdy Grover Cleveland, though
temperamentally the men were unlike. Mr. Cleveland used to tell his friends how in 1884 he
had gone to bed early not knowing who was elected, and how he learned the news of his election
next morning from his valet, after having first made inquiries about the state of the weather.
In 1892 Mr. Cleveland, his wife, and two friends played a quiet game of cards while the returns
were coming in. In reciting these reminiscences, the old warrior used to say that he never
could understand the excitement of candidates on election nights. "The fight is all over then,"
he would say, "and it is merely a matter of counting the ballots." Mr. Wilson preserved the
same calmness, which appeared almost like indifference. In 1912 he sat in the sitting room
of his little cottage in Cleveland Lane in Princeton quietly reading from one of his favourite
authors and occasionally joining in the conversation of Mrs. Wilson and a few neighbours who
had dropped in. In a rear room there was a telegraphic ticker, an operator, and some newspaper
boys who at intervals would take an especially interesting bulletin in to Mr. Wilson, who would
glance at it casually, make some brief comment, and then return to his book. One of the guests
of the evening who read in a newspaper next day a rather melodramatic and entirely imaginative
account of the scene, said: "The only dramatic thing about the evening was that there was nothing
dramatic."

CHAPTER XXVII

NEUTRALITY

While President Wilson was giving his whole thought and effort to the solution of exacting
domestic tasks, the European war broke upon him and thus turned his attention and study to
the age-long and complicated political struggle between Germany, France, and England.

Fully conscious from the very beginning of the difficulties that lay in his path, he was aware
of the eventualities the war now beginning might lead to. As a profound student of history
he saw with a clear vision the necessity of neutrality and of America remaining disentangled
in every way from the embroilments of Europe. To the people of the country it at first appeared
that the war was one more in a long series of European quarrels and that we must play our part
in the great conflict as mere spectators and strictly adhere to the American policy of traditional
aloofness and isolation, which had been our immemorial custom and habit.

He knew how difficult it would be to keep a people so variously constituted strictly neutral.
No sooner was his proclamation of neutrality announced than the differences in points of view
in racial stocks began to manifest themselves in language both intemperate and passionate,
until his advice to his country "to be neutral in fact as well as in name" became a dead and
spiritless thing.

I have often been asked if the policy of neutrality which the President announced, and which
brought a fire of criticism upon him, represented his own personal feelings toward the European
war, and whether if he had been a private citizen, he would have derided it as now his critics
were engaged in doing.

As an intimate associate of Woodrow Wilson during the whole of the European war, and witnessing
from day to day the play of his feelings, especially after the violation of the neutrality
of Belgium, I am certain that had he been free to do so he would have yielded to the impulse
of championing a cause that in his heart of hearts he felt involved the civilization of the
world. But it was his devotion to the idea of trusteeship that held him in check, and the consciousness
that in carrying out that trusteeship he had no right to permit his own passionate feelings
to govern his public acts.

It would have been a dramatic adventure to accept Germany's assault on Belgium as a challenge
to the humane interest of America, but the acceptance would have been only a gesture, for we
were unable to transport armies to the theatre of war in time to check the outrage. Such action
would have pleased some people in the East, but the President knew that this quixotic knight
errantry would not appeal to the country at large, particularly the West, still strongly grounded
in the Washingtonian tradition of non-interference in European quarrels.

It was not the policy of a weakling or a timid man. It was the policy of a prudent leader and
statesman, who was feeling his way amid dangers and who as an historian himself knew the difficulties
of an imprudent or incautious move.

I recall the day he prepared his neutrality proclamation. At the end of one of the most strenuous
days of his life in Washington, he left the Executive offices where he was engaged in meeting
and conferring with senators and congressmen, and I found him comfortably seated under an elm
tree, serenely engaged with pad and pencil in preparing his neutrality proclamation, which
was soon to loose a fierce storm of opposition and ridicule upon him. He and I had often discussed
the war and its effect upon our own country, and one day in August, 1914, just after the Great
War had begun, he said to me: "We are going through deep waters in the days to come. The passions
now lying dormant will soon be aroused and my motives and purposes at every turn will soon
be challenged until there will be left but few friends to justify my course. It does not seem
clear now, but as this war grows in intensity it will soon resolve itself into a war between
autocracy and democracy. Various racial groups in America will seek to lead us now one way
and then another. We must sit steady in the boat and bow our heads to meet the storm."

Bound as he was by the responsibilities of trusteeship to adhere to a policy of neutrality,
personally he saw that the inevitable results would be only bitter disappointment. "We cannot
remain isolated in this war," he said, "for soon the contagion of it will spread until it reaches
our own shores. On the one side Mr. Bryan will censure the Administration for being too militaristic,
and on the other we will find Mr. Roosevelt criticizing us because we are too pacifist in our
tendencies."

Dr. William E. Dodd, in his book "Woodrow Wilson and His Work," has sensed the complicated
situation in which the President found himself: "The British blockade, becoming more effective
every day, barred the way of American goods to Germany and even neutral countries. Hoke Smith
and a score of southern senators and representatives urged him to protest against the blockade.
Representatives of the packers of Chicago and the farmers of the Northwest urged him to open
the way to hungry markets for their goods. He made his fight during the autumn of 1914 and
1915 against all the more drastic phases of the British blockade, against British interference
with our cargoes for neutral ports." Every artificial device for increasing our trade with
neutral countries was suggested by those who sought his aid and counsel in the matter. Cotton
of all the commodities was the hardest hit. When a friend from Georgia urged action by the
President to help in the matter of cotton, the President tried to impress upon him that, with
the World War in progress, the law of supply and demand was deeply affected and that the sales
of cotton were necessarily restricted by reason of the closure of certain markets to our goods.
This friend, in urging his views upon the President, said: "But you, Mr. President, can suspend
the law of supply and demand." The President responded fey saying: "If I did, Judge, and you
ran your head up against it, you might get hurt."

Every sympathizer with Germany pursued the President relentlessly with insistent demand that
England should be brought to book for the unreasonable character of the blockade which she
was carrying on against our commerce on the high seas. The President in every diplomatic way
possible pressed America's claims against England, but these demands did not satisfy the German
sympathizers throughout the country who covertly sought to bring about a real breach between
the two countries. Even I felt that we should go further in our demands upon England than the
President seemed willing to go.

The pressure upon us at the White House for satisfaction at the hands of England grew more
intense with each day. I recall a conversation I had with the President shortly before the
Congressional elections when the President's political enemies were decrying his kind treatment
of England and excoriating him for the stern manner in which he was holding Germany to strict
accountability for her actions. This conversation was held while we were on board the President's
train on our way to the West. After dinner one evening I tactfully broached the subject of
the British blockade and laid before the President the use our enemies were making of his patient
action toward England. My frank criticism deeply aroused him. Replying to me he pitilessly
attacked those who were criticizing him for "letting up on Great Britain." Looking across the
table at me he said: "I am aware of the demands that are daily being made upon me by my friends
for more vigorous action against England in the matter of the blockade; I am aware also of
the sinister political purpose that lies back of many of these demands. Many senators and congressmen
who urge radical action against England are thinking only of German votes in their districts
and are not thinking of the world crisis that would inevitably occur should there be an actual
breach at this time between England and America over the blockade." Then looking squarely at
me, he said: "I have gone to the very limit in pressing our claims upon England and in urging
the British Foreign Office to modify the blockade. Walter Page, our Ambassador to England,
has placed every emphasis upon our insistence that something be done, and something will be
done, but England, now in the throes of a great war crisis, must at least be given a chance
to adjust these matters. Only a few days ago Mr. Page wrote me a most interesting letter, describing
the details of a conference he had had with Sir Edward Grey, the British Foreign Secretary,
to discuss our protests against the British blockade. Mr. Page described the room in which
the conference was held, on the wall of which was hung as a memorial the fifteen-million-dollar
check with which Great Britain paid the Alabama claims in the Civil War. Mr. Page pointed to
this Alabama check and said: 'If you don't stop these seizures, Sir Edward, some day you will
have your entire room papered with things like that.' Sir Edward replied: 'That may be so,
but we will pay every cent. Of course, many of the restrictions we have laid down and which
seriously interfere with your trade are unreasonable. But America must remember that we are
fighting her fight, as well as our own, to save the civilization of the world. You dare not
press us too far!'" Turning to me, the President said: "He was right. England is fighting our
fight and you may well understand that I shall not, in the present state of the world's affairs,
place obstacles in her way. Many of our critics suggest war with England in order to force
reparation in these matters. War with England would result in a German triumph. No matter what
may happen to me personally in the next election, I will not take any action to embarrass England
when she is fighting for her life and the life of the world. Let those who clamour for radical
action against England understand this!"

While the critics of the President were busily engaged in embarrassing and "hazing" him at
every point and insisting upon a "show-down" with Great Britain over the blockade, the world
was startled on May 7, 1915, by the news of the sinking of the Lusitania, off the coast of
Ireland, resulting in the loss of many American lives. A few days later came the news that
the German people were rejoicing at the fine stroke of the submarine commander in consummating
this horrible tragedy.

The President's critics who, a few days before, were assailing him for his supposed surrender
to England, were now demanding an immediate declaration of war against Germany, but not for
a moment did the President waver before these clamorous demands. To such an extent did he carry
this attitude of calmness and steadiness of purpose that on "the outside" the people felt that
there was in him a heartlessness and an indifference to the deep tragedy of the Lusitania.
At my first meeting with him I tried to call to his attention many of the tragic details of
the sinking of the great ship in an effort to force his hands, so to speak, but he quickly
checked what appeared to be my youthful impetuosity and said: "Tumulty, it would be much wiser
for us not to dwell too much upon these matters." When he uttered this admonition there was
no suggestion of coldness about him. In fact, he seemed to be deeply moved as I adverted to
some of the facts surrounding this regrettable and tragic affair. At times tears stood in his
eyes, and turning to me he said: "If I pondered over those tragic items that daily appear in
the newspapers about the Lusitania, I should see red in everything, and I am afraid that when
I am called upon to act with reference to this situation I could not be just to any one. I
dare not act unjustly and cannot indulge my own passionate feelings."

Evidently he saw that his turning away from the topic in this apparently indifferent way did
not sit well with me. Quickly he understood my dissatisfaction and said: "I suppose you think
I am cold and indifferent and little less than human, but, my dear fellow, you are mistaken,
for I have spent many sleepless hours thinking about this tragedy. It has hung over me like
a terrible nightmare. In God's name, how could any nation calling itself civilized purpose
so horrible a thing?"

At the time we were discussing this grave matter we were seated in the President's study in
the White House. I had never seen him more serious or careworn. I was aware that he was suffering
under the criticism that had been heaped upon him for his apparent inaction in the matter of
the Lusitania. Turning to me he said: "Let me try to make my attitude in this matter plain
to you, so that you at least will try to understand what lies in my thoughts. I am bound to
consider in the most careful and cautious way the first step I shall take, because once having
taken it I cannot withdraw from it. I am bound to consider beforehand all the facts and circumstances
surrounding the sinking of the Lusitania and to calculate the effect upon the country of every
incautious or unwise move. I am keenly aware that the feeling of the country is now at fever
heat and that it is ready to move with me in any direction I shall suggest, but I am bound
to weigh carefully the effect of radical action now based upon the present emotionalism of
the people. I am not sure whether the present emotionalism of the country would last long enough
to sustain any action I would suggest to Congress, and thus in case of failure we should be
left without that fine backing and support so necessary to maintain a great cause. I could
go to Congress to-morrow and advocate war with Germany and I feel certain that Congress would
support me, but what would the country say when war was declared, and finally came, and we
were witnessing all of its horrors and bloody aftermath. As the people pored over the casualty
lists, would they not say: 'Why did Wilson move so fast in this matter? Why didn't he try peaceably
to settle this question with Germany? Why could he not have waited a little longer? Why was
he so anxious to go to war with Germany, yet at the same time why was he so tender of the feelings
of Great Britain in the matter of the blockade?' Were I to advise radical action now, we should
have nothing, I am afraid, but regrets and heartbreaks. The vastness of this country; its variegated
elements; the conflicting cross-currents of national feelings bid us wait and withhold ourselves
from hasty or precipitate action. When we move against Germany we must be certain that the
whole country not only moves with us but is willing to go forward to the end with enthusiasm.
I know that we shall be condemned for waiting, but in the last analysis I am the trustee of
this nation, and the cost of it all must be considered in the reckoning before we go forward."

Then leaning closer to me, he said: "It will not do for me to act as if I had been hurried
into precipitate action against Germany. I must answer for the consequences of my action. What
is the picture that lies before me? All the great nations of Europe at war, engaged in a death
grapple that may involve civilization. My earnest hope and fervent prayer has been that America
could withhold herself and remain out of this terrible mess and steer clear of European embroilments,
and at the right time offer herself as the only mediating influence to bring about peace. We
are the only great nation now free to do this. If we should go in, then the whole civilized
world will become involved. What a pretty mess it would be! America, the only nation disconnected
from this thing and now she is surrendering the leadership she occupies and becomes involved
as other nations have. Think of the tragedy! I am not afraid to go to war. No man fit to be
President of this nation, knowing the way its people would respond to any demand that might
be made upon them, need have fears or doubts as to what stand it would finally take. But what
I fear more than anything else is the possibility of world bankruptcy that will inevitably
follow our getting into this thing, Not only world chaos and bankruptcy, but all of the distempers,
social, moral, and industrial, that will flow from this world cataclysm. No sane man, therefore,
who knows the dangerous elements that are abroad in the world would, without feeling out every
move, seek to lead his people without counting the cost and dispassionately deliberating upon
every move."

In a speech delivered at Helena, Montana, he frankly spoke of the "break down" of neutrality
in these words:

    In the Providence of God, the leadership of this nation was intrusted
    to me during those early years of the war when we were not in it. I
    was aware through many subtle channels of the movements of opinion in
    this country, and I know that the thing that this country chiefly
    desired, the thing that you men out here in the West chiefly desired
    and the thing that of course every loving woman had at her heart, was
    that we should keep out of the war, and we tried to persuade ourselves
    that the European business was not our business. We tried to convince
    ourselves that no matter what happened on the other side of the sea,
    no obligation of duty rested upon us, and finally we found the
    currents of humanity too strong for us. We found that a great
    consciousness was welling up in us that this was not a local cause,
    that this was not a struggle which was to be confined to Europe, or
    confined to Asia, to which it had spread, but that it was something
    that involved the very fate of civilization; and there was one great
    nation in the world that could not afford to stay out of it. There are
    gentlemen opposing the ratification of this treaty who at that time
    taunted the Administration of the United States that it had lost touch
    with its international conscience. They were eager to go in, and now
    that they have got in, and are caught in the whole network of human
    conscience, they want to break out and stay out. We were caught in
    this thing by the action of a nation utterly unlike ourselves. What I
    mean to say is that the German nation, the German people, had no
    choice whatever as to whether it was to go into that war or not, did
    not know that it was going into it until its men were summoned to the
    colours. I remember, not once, but often, that while sitting at the
    Cabinet table in Washington I asked my colleagues what their
    impression was of the opinion of the country before we went into the
    war, and I remember one day one of my colleagues said to me: "Mr.
    President, I think the people of the country would take your advice
    and do what you suggested." "Why," I said, "that is not what I am
    waiting for; that is not enough. If they cannot go in with a whoop
    there is no use of their going in at all. I do not want them to wait
    on me. I am waiting on them. I want to know what the conscience of
    this country is speaking. I want to know what purpose is arising in
    the minds of the people of this country with regard to this world
    situation." When I thought I heard that voice, it was then that I
    proposed to the Congress of the United States that we should include
    ourselves in the challenge that Germany was giving to mankind.

On May 10, 1915, he made a speech in Philadelphia, which contained the regrettable and much-criticized
phrase, "Too proud to fight." Unfortunately, the headlines of the papers carried only the phrase,
"Too proud to fight," and little or no attention was paid to the context of the speech in which
the phrase was lodged. As a matter of fact, there was nothing unusual about the character of
this speech. The phrase, "Too proud to fight," was simply expressive of the President's policy
since the outbreak of the war. It was not a new thought with him. Some weeks before he had
said the same thing, only in different words, in a speech delivered at a banquet of the Associated
Press in New York: "My interest in the neutrality of the United States is not a petty desire
to keep out of trouble. I am interested in neutrality because there is something so much greater
to do than fight. There is a distinction awaiting this nation that no nation has ever yet got.
That is the distinction of absolute self- control and mastery." The phrase, "Too proud to fight,"
was simply expressive of the idea that was close to his heart: a reliance upon means of settling
our difficulties with Germany other than a resort to war. On our way to Philadelphia on the
day of the delivery of this speech I read a copy of it which the President handed to me, and
when I ran across the phrase, "Too proud to fight," I scented the political danger in it and
warned him, but he declined to be admonished because he was confident in the moral strength
of his position, namely, that self-mastery is sometimes more heroic than fighting, or as the
Bible states it, "He that ruleth his own spirit is greater than he that taketh a city," and
trusted the people to understand his full meaning. The President himself was so above the petty
tricks by which politicians wrest words from their context and force upon them unfavourable
meaning that he sometimes incautiously played into the hands of this type of foe. Nor did he
fully realize that his gift for making striking and quotable phrases added to the danger. It
was an unfortunate phrase, "Too proud to fight," but none who thoughtfully read the context
with unprejudiced mind could fail to see the moral grandeur of the President's position.

CHAPTER XXVIII

PREPAREDNESS

The feelings of the people throughout the country began to be aroused as they witnessed the
outlawry of Germany in ruthlessly attacking and wantonly interfering with American commerce
on the high seas. The agitation for preparedness to meet a critical world situation was on
in full swing. Congress and the President were harassed by conflicting demands from every side
immediately to "put our house in order" and to set America safely on the road to national preparedness.
Theodore Roosevelt was clamorously demanding universal compulsory military service and was
ably aided by General Wood and Admiral Peary, who urged the adoption of conscription. Secretary
of War Garrison and Senator Chamberlain, of Oregon, were converted to this radical movement
and unwittingly became part and parcel of the Roosevelt-Wood preparedness propaganda. These
gentlemen could see only the direct route to the accomplishment of the purpose they had in
mind and were alike unmindful of the difficulties and obstacles that lay in the President's
path. To them it appeared that all it was necessary for the President to do was boldly to announce
his programme of preparedness and serenely to await its approval at the hands of Congress.
They were unmindful of the difficulties of the situation and of the consummate tact that Would
be required on the part of the President to induce Congress to turn away from the old volunteer
system and to put into effect at once a system that overnight would transform America into
an armed camp. The President was bound to consider the stern actualities of the situation and
to withhold himself as far as possible from a too vigorous insistence on any programme of preparedness
that was not traditionally, fundamentally American. It was a case of honest men seeing the
same thing in the same way but differing as to the practicable means of accomplishing it. The
President early realized that the volunteer system was unsuited to our present needs and that
it could not be quickly turned into an active force to answer emergencies, but he was certain,
also, that the people of the country must be convinced of this before they would agree to cut
themselves away from the volunteer system under which previous American wars had been fought
to a successful conclusion. The President felt that the old volunteer system was antiquated
and not to be considered, but the duty lay upon him to convince the leaders of the Senate and
House and the people that this was a fact. This was no easy task to accomplish. Haste or impetuous
action on his part in advocating conscription could only, in his opinion, delay matters and
embarrass the very purpose that lay in his mind.

While Roosevelt and Garrison were criticizing Congressional inaction, the President's mind
was "open and to let" on the question of what constituted the best means of putting America
in a state of actual and aggressive preparedness. As President, he was bound to take cognizance
of the deep- seated antagonism on the part of the American people to any system of military
preparedness that had a compulsory feature as its basic element. It was the President's opinion
that the people of a country so big and varied as America had to be convinced by alternative
methods as to what, in the last analysis, was the best means of preparing the country against
aggression.

While he was convinced that we had to be prepared and ready to meet any emergency, he was not
to be rushed in the matter and was keeping his mind open to find the best and most practical
method of accomplishing what he thought the average opinion of the country demanded in the
way of preparedness.

I had often discussed the matter with the President and, watching the agitation for preparedness
from the side-lines, had stated my views in letters reading in part as follows:

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    In my opinion, there is left to the Republican party but two available
    issues for the campaign of 1916,--the tariff and the question of
    national defense. How we are to meet the enemy on these questions is a
    subject which we ought thoroughly to consider and discuss in the
    coming months.

    As to National Defense: In this matter we must have a sane, reasonable
    and workable programme. That programme must have in it, the
    ingredients that will call forth the hearty support of, first, the
    whole Cabinet (and particularly the Secretary of War); second, the
    leaders of the party in the Senate and House; third, the rank and file
    of Democrats in both Houses; fourth, the Army and the Navy; and last
    but not least, the great body of the American people.

    Successfully to carry through this programme will tax your leadership
    in the party to the last degree. On the eve of the campaign of 1916,
    your attitude and accomplishment in this matter will be accepted by
    the country as the final test of your leadership and will be of
    incalculable psychological importance to the party; and, therefore, in
    the carrying out of this programme we cannot afford to hesitate or to
    blunder, because as election day approaches trivial mistakes will be
    magnified and exaggerated by the opposition, to the hurt and injury of
    our party and your prestige as leader.

    TUMULTY.

    THE PRESIDENT,
      Cornish, New Hampshire.

           *       *       *       *       *

    MY DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I cannot impress upon you too forcibly the importance of an appeal to
    the country at this time on the question of preparedness. No matter
    what the character of the information is that you are receiving, I
    have it from all sources that there is no enthusiasm on the "hill" for
    preparedness, and that the country itself is indifferent because of
    its apparent inability to grasp the importance and full significance
    of this question. This indifference arises out of two things: first,
    the attitude of the pacifists whose feelings have been nurtured by the
    preachings of Mr. Bryan; second, the attitude of those in the country
    who believe in preparedness and who are frightened because of the big
    talk of Roosevelt and others on their plan for military conscription.

    There is no doubt how the body of the American people feel on this
    question of preparedness. You can, therefore, with much greater
    reason, address them on this question and with greater force and
    earnestness. I am afraid if you delay in this matter, it will be too
    late to act, because our enemies are already busy and active.

    If some unfortunate thing should arise in international affairs or in
    Mexico within the next few weeks and announcement came then that you
    were to make an appeal to the country, it would appear as an anti-
    climax and an attempt upon your part to retrieve yourself. Now is the
    psychological moment to make your plea for national defense and
    incidentally to discuss Mexico and our foreign relations. In other
    words, you must ask the country to accept your leadership or the
    leadership of others who can't lead. Your voice is the only
    responsible voice in America that can speak with certainty, authority,
    and calmness as to the need for preparedness. There is no doubt of the
    will of a large majority of our people, but it lacks articulate
    expression. I am sure they will not fail to respond.

    TUMULTY.

Upon conferring with the President in the matter of preparedness, I found that he had been
slowly and patiently revolving the whole matter in his own mind and was then considering the
advisability of taking a direct message to the people concerning the situation and was only
awaiting the psychological moment to strike.

On January 27, 1916, the President commenced his tour of the North and Middle West, assuming
the leadership of the movement for preparedness that had been started by his opponents, and
called the attention of the country to the critical world situation and to the necessity that
America "put her house in order." In St. Louis he declared that America must have comparably
the greatest navy in the world. It was noticeable in his speeches that he never employed the
term "universal military service" and that he was careful to explain that there was to be no
militarism in the country.

When the President returned from his preparedness tour, he found himself at the centre of conflicting
views as to method; on the one hand, Representative Hay of the Military Affairs Committee,
advocated the use of the National Guard as the new army; on the other hand, Secretary Garrison
advocated an increase of the Regular Army to 142,000 men and a new "continental army" of 400,000
men, with reserves of state militia. It was the recurrent conflict between the Army and Congress,
between the military department's desire for a strong force and Congress' fear of "militarism."
The Garrison plan met with decided opposition in the House, and upon the President's refusal
to lend support to his Secretary of War in the programme he had outlined in his report of 1915,
Mr. Garrison resigned. Immediately all the enemies of the President centred about the retiring
Secretary and proclaimed him a very much abused official. The letter which the President addressed
to Secretary Garrison is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    January 17, 1916.

    MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY:

    I am very much obliged to you for your letters of January twelfth and
    January fourteenth. They make your views with regard to adequate
    measures of preparation for national defence sharply clear. I am sure
    that I already understood just what your views were, but I am glad to
    have them restated in this succinct and striking way. You believe, as
    I do, that the chief thing necessary is, that we should have a trained
    citizen reserve and that the training, organization and control of
    that reserve should be under immediate federal direction.

    But apparently I have not succeeded in making my own position equally
    clear to you, though I feel sure that I have made it perfectly clear
    to Mr. Hay. It is that I am not irrevocably or dogmatically committed
    to any one plan of providing the nation with such a reserve and am
    cordially willing to discuss alternative proposals.

    Any other position on my part would indicate an attitude towards the
    Committee on Military Affairs of the House of Representatives which I
    should in no circumstances feel at liberty to assume. It would never
    be proper or possible for me to say to any committee of the House of
    Representatives that so far as my participation in legislation was
    concerned they would have to take my plan or none.

    I do not share your opinion that the members of the House who are
    charged with the duty of dealing with military affairs are ignorant of
    them or of the military necessities of the nation. On the contrary, I
    have found them well informed and actuated with a most intelligent
    appreciation of the grave responsibilities imposed upon them. I am
    sure that Mr. Hay and his colleagues are ready to act with a full
    sense of all that is involved in this great matter both for the
    country and for the national parties which they represent.

    My own duty toward them is perfectly plain. I must welcome a frank
    interchange of views and a patient and thorough comparison of all the
    methods proposed for obtaining the objects we all have in view. So far
    as my own participation in final legislative action is concerned, no
    one will expect me to acquiesce in any proposal that I regard as
    inadequate or illusory. If, as the outcome of a free interchange of
    views, my own judgment and that of the Committee should prove to be
    irreconcilably different and a bill should be presented to me which I
    could not accept as accomplishing the essential things sought, it
    would manifestly be my duty to veto it and go to the country on the
    merits. But there is no reason to anticipate or fear such a result,
    unless we should ourselves take at the outset the position that only
    the plans of the Department are to be considered; and that position,
    it seems to me, would be wholly unjustifiable. The Committee and the
    Congress will expect me to be as frank with them as I hope they will
    be with me, and will of course hold me justified in fighting for my
    own matured opinion.

    I have had a delightfully frank conference with Mr. Hay. I have said
    to him that I was perfectly willing to consider any plan that would
    give us a national reserve under unmistakable national control, and
    would support any scheme if convinced of its adequacy and wise policy.
    More he has not asked or desired.

    Sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    HON. LINDLEY M. GARRISON,
      Secretary of War.

It was clear from the President's letter and the attitude of Secretary Garrison that there
was to be no meeting of minds between the President and his Secretary of War on the matter
of preparedness. Their views could not be reconciled, and when the President refused to support
Garrison's programme, hook, line, and sinker, the Secretary tendered his resignation, which
the President under the circumstances readily accepted. Immediately the friends of Garrison
declared that the Administration had lost its strongest man and that it was now on the way
to destruction. Neither the President nor his many friends, however, were disturbed by these
direful predictions of disaster; and as the people pondered the President's letter of acceptance
of Mr. Garrison's resignation, wherein he showed his own mind was open to the best method of
preparing the country and that Mr. Garrison showed petulance and impatience in handling the
matter--the sober, second thought of the country readily and quickly came to the President's
support in the belief that the dogmatic attitude of the Secretary of War, instead of helping,
was embarrassing national preparedness.

Garrison had rendered distinguished service to the Administration and had won many friends,
especially the newspaper group of Washington, by his open, frank method of dealing with public
questions; but unfortunately for him he was swept off his feet by the unstinted praise that
came to him from Republican journals throughout the country whenever it appeared that he was
taking an attitude--especially in the two questions of major importance, preparedness and Mexico--that
seemed to be at variance with the Administration's point of view.

When the President's letter to Garrison was read and the contents fully understood it showed
Garrison autocratic and unyielding, and the President open-minded and willing to adopt any
plan for preparedness that seemed to be workable. Garrison's resignation, which at first blush
appeared to be disastrous to the Administration, was soon turned to its advantage, with the
result that a national defence act was passed during the summer. It was a compromise measure
but it added very greatly to the military power of the country. In addition, it gave great
powers to the President over the railroads in the event of war and authorized the establishment
of a council of national defence.

Of course, the enemies of the President interpreted the episode as another example of his inability
to cooperate with "strong men" and continued in the next breath to repeat their accusations
that he was autocratic in his dealings with Congress, ignoring their own inconsistency. It
was precisely because the President respected the constitutional prerogatives of the Congress,
and Mr. Garrison did not, that the break came.

Every method of propaganda was resorted to to force the hand of the President in the matter
of preparedness and to induce him to advocate and support a programme for universal military
service put forth by the National Security League, whose backers and supporters throughout
the country were mainly Republicans. Publicity on a grand scale, public meetings and great
parades throughout the country were part of this propaganda. While many sincere, patriotic
men and women, without realizing the politics that lay behind it, aided in this movement, it
was easy to see that back of it was a sinister political purpose to embarrass and, if possible,
to force the hand of the President. One of the leaders of this movement was General Wood, who
established, with the permission of the War Department, the famous Plattsburg Camp. It will
be recalled that this was the stage from which Mr. Roosevelt, on an occasion, freely gave expression
to his views of bitter antagonism to the President for his seemingly slothful attitude in urging
his views on Congress with reference to the preparedness programme. One of the favourite methods
of rousing the people, to which the National Security League resorted, was demonstrations throughout
the country in the form of preparedness parades. It was clear to us at the White House that
these parades were part of an organized movement to "agitate" in favour of a radical programme
of preparedness. The President and I had often discussed these demonstrations. One day I asked
him if they were embarrassing him in any way and he said that they were not, but that they
might affect opinion throughout the country in such a way as unreasonably to influence Congress
for legislation so radical in its character as to be unnecessary and burdensome to the taxpayers
of the country.

Our Republican opponents on the outside were claiming great political results from these demonstrations
and felt sure they were a mighty force in embarrassing and weakening the President. It was
finally suggested to the President that he ought to embrace the first opportunity presented
to him of leading in one of the parades himself. Shortly after, the District of Columbia parade
took place, and the President, upon my initiative, was invited to lead it. The effect of the
President's personal participation in this parade and in the New York parade held subsequently
was quickly evident. As soon as the moving pictures throughout the country began to feature
the President leading the demonstrations, these parades became less frequent and finally obsolete.
By getting into the "front line" the President had cleverly outwitted his enemies and took
command of the forces in the country demanding preparedness.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE GREAT DECLARATION

In October, 1916, during the Presidential campaign, while the President was at Shadow Lawn,
New Jersey, Ambassador Gerard, at the President's invitation, paid a visit to him and reported
in detail the general situation in Germany as to the submarine warfare. He said that the restrictions
as to submarines imposed by Germany's acceptance of the President's ultimatum after the Sussex
affair, were growing burdensome and intolerable to the military and naval masters of Germany
and that they were bringing all kinds of pressure to bear upon the leaders of the Civil Government,
notably Von Bethmann-Hollweg and Foreign Minister Von Jagow, to repudiate the undertaking.
From the critical situation in Germany, arising out of the controversy over the question of
unrestricted submarine warfare, which Ambassador Gerard laid before him, the President was
convinced that we were now approaching a real crisis in our relations with Germany and that
unless peace could be quickly obtained, the European struggle would soon enter upon a phase
more terrible than any in the preceding two years, with consequences highly dangerous to the
interests of our country. The passionate wish and deep desire of the President from the beginning
was that we could keep aloof and by conserving our energies and remaining neutral, hold ourselves
in reserve as the only mediating influence for peace; but with each passing week some untoward
event brought about by the ruthlessness of Germany made the prospect for the interposition
of America's influence daily more unlikely.

The following memorandum prepared by me on January 4, 1916, of a conversation between the President
and myself, shortly after the sinking of the Persia by a submarine, imperfectly sets forth
his idea with reference to war with Germany:

    About ten minutes to ten o'clock this morning I had a very interesting
    conversation with the President at the White House, my purpose being
    to bring to him the atmosphere of Washington and the country as far as
    I could ascertain with reference to the sinking of the Persia by a
    submarine. The other purpose of my visit was to warn him that Senator
    Stone might induce him to make some admission with reference to his
    attitude which might embarrass the President in the future.

    The President looked very well after his trip and seemed to be in a
    fine mood, although it was plainly evident that the Persia affair
    rested heavily upon him. My attitude toward this matter was for
    action, and action all along the line. This did not seem to meet with
    a very hearty response from the President. He informed me that it
    would not be the thing for us to take action against any government
    without our government being in possession of all the facts. I replied
    that that was my attitude, but I thought there should be action and
    vigorous action as soon as all the facts were ascertained. He agreed
    with me in this. When I began to tell him about the attitude of the
    country and the feeling in the country that there was a lack of
    leadership, he stiffened up in his chair and said: "Tumulty, you may
    as well understand my position right now. If my rejection as President
    depends upon my getting into war, I don't want to be President. I have
    been away, and I have had lots of time to think about this war and the
    effect of our country getting into it, and I have made up my mind that
    I am more interested in the opinion that the country will have of me
    ten years from now than the opinion it may be willing to express to-
    day. Of course, I understand that the country wants action, and I
    intend to stand by the record I have made in all these cases, and take
    whatever action may be necessary, but I will not be rushed into war,
    no matter if every last Congressman and Senator stands up on his hind
    legs and proclaims me a coward." He continued, speaking of the
    severance of diplomatic relations,--"You must know that when I
    consider this matter, I can only consider it as the forerunner of war.
    I believe that the sober-minded people of this country will applaud
    any efforts I may make without the loss of our honour to keep this
    country out of war." He said that if we took any precipitate action
    right now, it might prevent Austria from coming across in generous
    fashion.

The President, ten months later, was re-elected, on the slogan, "He kept us out of War." If
it was possible to continue at peace on terms that would protect and conserve our national
honour, he was determined to do so. I recall how passionately he laid before Senator Tillman
of South Carolina, chairman of the Committee on Naval Affairs, his desire to keep the nation
out of war. At the conclusion of the talk with the Senator, he said: "But, Senator, it rests
with Germany to say whether we shall remain at peace." Turning to the President, Senator Tillman
said: "You are right, Mr. President, we must not go around with a chip on our shoulder. I am
for peace, but I am not for peace at any damn price." This was really expressive of the President's
attitude. He earnestly desired peace, but he was not willing to remain at peace at the price
of the nation's honour.

Early in May, 1916, the President and I had conferred regarding the European situation and
had discussed the possibility of our suggesting to both sides that they consider the United
States as a mediating influence to bring about a settlement. Early in May, 1916, I had addressed
the following letter to the President with reference to the matter:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
       WASHINGTON

    May 16, 1916.

    MY DEAR GOVERNOR:

    As I have discussed with you on frequent occasions, it seems to me
    that the time is now at hand for you to act in the matter of Peace.
    The mere process of peace negotiations may extend over a period of
    months. Why should we wait until the moment of exhaustion before ever
    beginning a discussion? Everybody admits that the resources of the
    nations involved cannot last through another year without suffering of
    an untold character. It is now May. Let us assume that everybody
    accepts your offer. It would be physically impossible to get
    commissioners from various parts of the world, including Japan, in
    less than two months. Then the discussion would perhaps last until the
    fall, no matter what conclusion might be reached. Therefore, allowing
    for the time that might be consumed in persuading all the parties that
    the time is now ripe, the whole business will require almost a year in
    itself, during which time the hostilities would be continuing and
    certainly the chance of getting a truce would be better after the
    discussion had been in progress for some time. Similarly, as the time
    for the winter campaign approached, the inducement to agree on a truce
    on any terms would become more powerful each day.

    Let us look at it from the point of view of postponement. If we waited
    until the fall and the negotiations stretched out through the winter,
    the temptation for making new drives in the spring, with the
    preparations made throughout the winter, would incline the
    militaristic element in the various countries involved to block peace
    negotiations. It seems, therefore, that the time to act is now when
    these drives are spending their force.

    As to the Procedure:

    It seems that no belligerent should be put in the position by your
    note of weakening or of suing for peace, for we must keep in mind the
    pride and sensibilities of all. The initiative must be ours--to all
    nations, on equal terms. One way to do this would be to send a note,
    saying that from the German note and from statesmen representing the
    Entente powers the Government of the United States assumes that the
    belligerent powers are willing at least to discus suggestions for
    peace, each only reserving to itself liberty of action. The United
    States can, therefore, announce that it is willing to meet at The
    Hague a commission sent by the respective governments to discuss means
    for making peace, and for establishing a world court or international
    tribunal to safeguard the peace of the world after the close of the
    war.

    In the latter, namely, world peace, the United States has a direct
    interest. The United States can in the note assume that commissioners
    will meet with it and hopes to be advised if there is any feeling to
    the contrary.

    My idea is to go ahead with the plan on the theory that all the
    belligerents are in accord with the idea, so that in answering our
    note they will not have accepted anything but our proposals to
    discuss, first, the suggestion of peace, and, secondly, the idea of a
    world court.

    The President should say, in order to elicit the sympathy of the world
    and mankind in general, that the note of the United States suggesting
    a meeting between the powers will be made public within a few days and
    after its receipt by the respective powers. This will give each
    government not only its own public opinion to reckon with, but the
    public opinion of the civilized world. The nation that objects to a
    discussion of peace will by no means be in an enviable position.

    I hope you will read the article I am sending you by Mr. Strunsky,
    "Post Impressions," especially that part I have indicated in the
    margin. It is from this article that I got the idea of suggesting the
    alternative proposition of a world court. Your note setting forth your
    position in this matter should be an appeal to the heart and to the
    conscience of the world.

    TUMULTY.

Evidently the President seriously had been considering this very matter as was shown by the
following reply to my note:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Thank you for the memorandum about peace suggestions. I have read it
    very carefully and find my own thoughts travelling very much the same
    route. You may be sure I am doing a great deal of serious thinking
    about it all.

    Faithfully,
      W. W.

The President, through the State Department and various instrumentalities to which he had access
for information, was keeping in touch with the German situation and understood from the beginning
what the German game was with reference to peace, and to the various offers which he was making.
He knew that the German peace offers were merely an attempt on the part of the civil government
of Germany to avert a resumption of ruthlessness at sea; that they were mere gestures on the
part of the German Government made to bolster up the morale of the German people and that these
German offers did not indicate the real desire for peace on equitable terms, as subsequent
events showed, but that they were the terms of peace of a nation which thought itself the victor,
and, therefore, in a position ruthlessly to dictate a final settlement.

Many of the advisers of the President suggested that he should ignore these offers. But the
President was wiser than those around him in accepting the German bid at its face value, and
he finally called upon Germany to state the practical terms upon which she was willing to consider
a settlement for peace. There was another reason for the President's patience. Foreseeing an
inevitable crisis with Germany over the frequent sinking of our ships, he was fully conscious
that he could not draw the whole country with him in aggressive action if before he took the
step leading to war he had not tried out every means of peace. While his enemies denounced
his meekness and apparent subservience to German diplomacy, and while some went so far as to
characterize his conduct as cowardly, he serenely moved on and forced Germany to a show-down.
He not only asked Germany to state her terms, but he frankly asked the Allies to give to the
world their statement of what they considered the basis of peace.

One of the phrases in his note to the Allies which caused great irritation was that "neither
side had stated the object for which the war had been started." While he was criticized for
this at the time, it did just what he intended it to do. It forced Germany openly to avow what
she believed to be the basis of peace, and gave the Allies their chance, as if they were being
forced to do it by the American President, to say what they thought would be a just settlement.

In the latter part of January Germany announced to the United States that she was going to
begin, on February first, unrestricted submarine warfare in the zone around the British Isles,
and undertook to specify the route which a restricted number of American ships might take through
this zone.

I vividly recall the day the Associated Press bulletin reached the White House. I took it immediately
to the President who was at his desk in his private office. As I entered, he looked up from
his writing, casual inquiry in his eyes. Without comment I laid the fateful slip of paper on
his desk, and silently watched him as he read and then re-read it. I seemed to read his mind
in the expressions that raced across his strong features: first, blank amazement; then incredulity
that even Germany could be guilty of such perfidy; then gravity and sternness, a sudden grayness
of colour, a compression of the lips and the familiar locking of the jaw which always characterized
him in moments of supreme resolution. Handing the paper back to me, he said in quiet tones:
"This means war. The break that we have tried so hard to prevent now seems inevitable."

On February 4th, he addressed Congress, announcing the severance of diplomatic relations with
Germany, and stating his hope that Germany would pause before it was too late. On February
26th, the steamship. Aneona, with Americans on board, was sunk, and on the next day the President
addressed Congress, suggesting the proclamation of armed neutrality as a final effort to apply
pressure to the Government of Germany, to show that the United States was in earnest and would
protect its rights against lawless attacks at sea; but these measures failed.

I accompanied the President to Capitol Hill on the day of the delivery of his war message,
and on that fateful day I rode with him from the Capitol back to the White House, the echo
of applause still ringing in my ears.

For a while he sat silent and pale in the Cabinet Room. At last he said: "Think what it was
they were applauding" [he was speaking of the people who were lined along the streets on his
way to the Capitol]. "My message to-day was a message of death for our young men. How strange
it seems to applaud that."

That simple remark is one key to an understanding of Woodrow Wilson. All politicians pretend
to hate and to dread war, but Woodrow Wilson really hates and dreads it in all the fibres of
his human soul; hates it and dreads it because he has an imagination and a heart; an imagination
which shows his sensitive perception the anguish and the dying which war entails; a heart which
yearns and aches over every dying soldier and bleeds afresh with each new-made wound.

I shall never forget that scene in the Cabinet Room between the President and myself. He appeared
like a man who had thrown off old burdens only to add new ones.

It was apparent in his talk with me that he felt deeply wounded at the criticism that for months
had been heaped upon him for his seeming unwillingness to go to war with Germany. As he discussed
the step he had just taken, it was evident to me that he keenly felt the full solemnity and
tragedy of it all. Turning to me, he said: "Tumulty, from the very beginning I saw the end
of this horrible thing; but I could not move faster than the great mass of our people would
permit. Very few understood the difficult and trying position I have been placed in during
the years through which we have just passed. In the policy of patience and forbearance I pursued
I tried to make every part of America and the varied elements of our population understand
that we were willing to go any length rather than resort to war with Germany. As I told you
months ago, it would have been foolish for us to have been rushed off our feet and to have
gone to war over an isolated affair like the Lusitania. But now we are certain that there will
be no regrets or looking back on the part of our people. There is but one course now left open
to us. Our consciences are clear, and we must prepare for the inevitable--a fight to the end.
Germany must be made to understand that we have rights that she must respect. There were few
who understood this policy of patience. I do not mean to say this in a spirit of criticism.
Indeed, many of the leading journals of the country were unmindful of the complexities of the
situation which confronted us."

The President then took out of his pocket an old and worn newspaper clipping, saying: "I wish
to read you an analysis of my position and my policy by a special writer for the Manchester
Guardian, who seemed, without consulting me or ever conferring with me, to know just what I
am driving at."

This special writer, commenting upon the Wilson policy, had said:

    Mr. Wilson's patience, now derided and criticized, will inevitably be
    the means by which he will lead his people by easy stages to the side
    of the Allies. By his methods of patience and apparent subservience to
    Germany, he will convince the whole American people that no other
    course save war is possible. This policy of Wilson's, now determined
    on, will work a complete transformation in his people. It will not
    evidence itself quickly or overnight. The moral preachment of Wilson
    before and after war will be the cause that will finally bring his
    people to the side of the Allies.

Again turning to me, the President said: "Our course from this time on is clear. The whole
business of war that we are now engaged upon is fraught with the gravest difficulties. There
will be great enthusiasm in the country from this day. I trust it will not slacken or weaken
as the horrors of the war and its tragedies are disclosed. Of course our motives will be misconstrued,
our purposes misunderstood; some of our best friends will misinterpret what we seek to do.
In carrying on the war we will be obliged to do certain unusual things, things that will interfere
with the lives and habits of our people, which will bring down upon us a storm of criticism
and ridicule. Our life, therefore, until this thing is over, and God only knows when it will
be over, will be full of tragedy and heartaches."

As he spoke, he was no longer Woodrow Wilson, the protagonist of peace, but Woodrow Wilson,
the stern warrior, now grimly determined to pursue the great cause of America to the end.

The President continued talking to me. He said: "It has not been easy to carry these burdens
in these trying times. From the beginning I saw the utter futility of neutrality, the disappointment
and heartaches that would flow from its announcement, but we had to stand by our traditional
policy of steering clear of European embroilments. While I have appeared to be indifferent
to the criticism which has been my portion during these critical days, a few have tried to
understand my purpose and have sympathized throughout with what I sought to do."

Then, as he lowered his voice, he said: "There is a fine chap in Springfield, Massachusetts,
editor of a great paper there, who understood my position from the beginning and who has sympathized
with me throughout this whole business." For a moment he, paused, and then went on: "I want
to read you the letter I received from this fine man." As he read, the emotion he felt at the
tender sympathy which the words conveyed gripped him. The letter is as follows:

    Springfield, Massachusetts,
    March 28, 1917.

    MY DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:

    In acknowledging your very kind and appreciative note of March 22nd, I
    must say at once that the note has given me the greatest possible
    pleasure. I prize this word from you all the more because after the
    political experience and conflicts of the past few years, I am
    conscious of a very real yet peculiar feeling of having summered and
    wintered with you, in spite of the immeasurable and rather awful
    distance that separates our respective places in the life and work of
    our time. Your note, for the moment, suddenly annihilates the distance
    and brings to me what I recognize as a very human touch.

    There is summering and wintering to come,--with more wintering perhaps
    than we shall enjoy;--even so, I shall hope to be of timely service,
    as opportunity favours me.

    I have the honour to be your admirer and friend.

    Most sincerely,
      (Signed) WALDO L. COOK.

"That man understood me and sympathized." As he said this, the President drew his handkerchief
from his pocket, wiped away great tears that stood in his eyes, and then laying his head on
the Cabinet table, sobbed as if he had been a child.

CHAPTER XXX

CARRYING ON

The critics of the President will ask the question: "What was the President doing to prepare
the country for war, which to him seemed inevitable?" From the inside, and without the blare
of trumpets, he was quietly engaged in conferring with the heads of the Army and Navy departments.
Indeed, from the minute the third Lusitania note was dispatched, actual preparations for war
were begun. Immediately upon the dispatch of the note, the following statement was issued from
the White House, under date of July 21, 1916.

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    July 21, 1916.

    The President in association with the heads of departments, regardless
    of present-day conditions or controversies, has long been giving a
    great deal of consideration to the preparation of a reasonable and
    adequate naval programme, which he intends to propose to Congress at
    the proper time.

    That is one of the things he is now considering in the quiet of
    Cornish. He feels, now that the note has been dispatched, that it is
    best, for the time being, to drop the discussion of it as far as he is
    concerned and is turning to questions of permanent national policy.

    Of course, he realizes that he must have the best practical advice
    obtainable in this matter and is seeking for it from every available
    source. In fact, it is known that the best minds of the various
    departments of the Government, both of the Army and the Navy, are now
    and have been at work on these important matters for some time; that
    is, he is seeking advice from the men in those departments who have
    been most directly in touch with the new conditions of defence that
    have been evolved out of modern experience. He not only wishes advice
    from those who have a knowledge of actual modern conditions of
    warfare, but he is seeking light from those who are able to understand
    and comprehend the altered conditions of land and naval warfare. He
    wishes the Navy to stand upon an equality with the most efficient and
    serviceable.

    As to the Army, it is known here that he is preparing to incorporate
    in his next message to Congress a programme in regard to the
    development and equipment of the Army and a proper training of the
    citizens of the United States to arms which, while in every way
    consistent with American traditions and national policy, will be of
    such a character as to commend itself to every patriotic and practical
    mind. In this matter he is working with the Secretary of War and his
    professional associates, who, it is understood, have reached some very
    definite conclusions on these exceedingly important matters. He is
    anxious to have a programme that will be definite and positive, and
    wishes to have the information in hand before laying the matter before
    the committees of the Senate and the House.

 Contemporaneously with this statement was issued the following, which was
prepared by the President, but issued over my name, the full significance
of which was not apparent at the time:

    The note [Third Lusitania note] having been dispatched, the
    President felt that it was best to drop further discussion of the
    matter for the present, as far as he was concerned. He will be free
    now to devote his time to a full consideration of a matter that the
    country has for a long time been thoughtful of, that is a reasonable
    programme of national defense. Of course, this programme will be
    considered regardless of present-day conditions.

    It is known that the President has been considering this important
    matter in all its aspects, and has been in touch with the Secretary of
    War and the Secretary of the Navy regarding it. It is also known in
    official circles here that the President had taken steps before
    leaving for Cornish to instruct the Army and Navy departments to make
    ready for his consideration a careful programme of national defense in
    preparation for the presentation of his views to Congress at the
    proper time.

    He desires to have the programme based on the most practicable lines
    obtainable from the departments and it is said that the best minds in
    the departments are at present at work on the subject. He hopes that
    the programme will express the best traditions of the country and not
    lose sight of modern experience.

On July 21, 1915, he addressed the following letters to the Secretary of War and the Secretary
of the Navy, respectively:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    July 21, 1915.

    I know that you have been much in conference with your professional
    associates in the department and that you have yourself come to some
    very definite conclusions on these exceedingly important matters. I
    shall be away from Washington for a few days, but I would be very much
    obliged if you would be kind enough to prepare for me a programme,
    with estimates, of what you and the best-informed soldiers in your
    counsels think the country ought to undertake to do. I should like to
    discuss this programme with you at as early a time as it can be made
    ready. Whether we can reasonably propose the whole of it to the
    Congress immediately or not we can determine when we have studied it.
    The important thing now is to know and know fully what we need.
    Congress will certainly welcome such advice and follow it to the limit
    of its opportunity.

    Cordially and faithfully yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

           *       *       *       *       *

    HON. LINDLEY M. GARRISON,
      Secretary Of War.

    But first we must have professional advice. I would be very much
    obliged to you if you would get the best minds in the department to
    work on the subject: I mean the men who have been most directly in
    contact with actual modern conditions, who have most thoroughly
    comprehended what the Navy must be in the future in order to stand
    upon an equality with the most efficient and most practically
    serviceable. I want their advice, a programme by them formulated in
    the most definite way.

    It should be a programme planned for a consistent and progressive
    development of this great defensive arm of the nation and should be of
    such a kind as to commend itself to every patriotic and practical man.

    I shall return to Washington in a few days and shall be glad to take
    this important matter up with you at your early convenience.

    Cordially and faithfully yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    HON. JOSEPHUS DANIELS,
      Secretary of the Navy.

Immediately after the war message there arose an insistent demand for a coalition cabinet.
It was the beginning of the Republican drive for what was called a bi-partisan government.
Republicans chose to forget the experiences of England and France under their coalition cabinets,
and when the President refused to act upon the suggestion, the impression was subtly conveyed
to the unthinking that the President's refusal arose from his dislike of counsel and cooeperation,
and his unwillingness to share the responsibilities and glories of the war with people outside
his own party.

As an historian, the President knew the troubles of Washington with a coalition cabinet, Lincoln's
embarrassments from Cabinet members not of his own party, McKinley's sagacious refusal in 1898
to form a coalition cabinet. He also knew human nature; knew that with the best intentions,
men sometimes find it difficult to work whole-heartedly with a leader of a political party
not their own. He could not risk a chance of division, in his own official family in the face
of the common enemy.

The President looked upon the agitation for a coalition cabinet as a partisan effort to hamper
and embarrass his administration, and so he coldly turned away from every suggestion that looked
toward the establishment of a cabinet of the kind suggested by his too-solicitous Republican
friends.

The following note which I addressed to the President and his reply, bear upon the subject:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    The newspaper men asked me this morning what the attitude of the
    Administration was toward the proposed super-cabinet. I hedged as much
    as I could, but I asked if it was not the same proposition that came
    up some months ago, advocated by Senator Weeks, in a new disguise--if
    it was not the same kind of a commission that had harassed Mr.
    Lincoln. I think we ought to let our attitude be known unofficially
    for the guidance of men who wish to help us. If we do nothing at this
    time to let it be known, it would seem that our opposition to this
    kind of legislation had been silenced by the furore over the fuel
    order. In other words, we ought to show by our attitude that the
    tantrums on the Hill are making no impression on us whatever.

    TUMULTY.

           *       *       *       *       *

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Of course, I am opposed to the idea of a "super-cabinet," and regard
    it as nothing more nor less than a renewal of the perpetual effort of
    the Republicans to force representation in the Administration.
    Republicans of the finest sort and of the finest capacity are working
    for and with the Administration on all hands and there is no need
    whatever for a change at the head of the administering departments. I
    am utterly opposed to anything of the sort and will never consent to
    it. You will know how to create the impression on the minds of the
    newspaper men that I regard it as merely a partisan effort to hamper
    and embarrass the Administration.

    THE PRESIDENT.

There were many misgivings in the minds of the people when war was declared in April, 1917,
and the nation embarked upon the most gigantic of all its wars, under the leadership of a college
professor, a doctrinaire, who did not believe in war as a method of permanently solving international
problems, and a Secretary of War who was an avowed pacifist. There was another matter which
greatly disturbed the peace of mind of the average American. The political party that was conducting
the struggle was the Democratic party, the party of the plain folk, of the average men and
women of America. Our Republican friends had so cleverly "advertised" their conduct of the
Civil War and the Spanish-American War, that many people in the country felt that the Republican
party, because of its leading minds and the business genius of its masters, was the only political
organization that could be depended upon successfully to carry on a great war.

Colonel Roosevelt's diary, first made public on September 28, 1921, throws interesting light
on Republican claims of efficient management by Republicans of the Spanish-American War. Under
date of May 7, 1898, the Colonel, then a lieutenant-colonel, recorded in his diary: "The delays
and stupidity of the Ordnance Department surpass belief. The Quartermaster's Department is
better, but bad. The Commissary Department is good. There is no management whatever in the
War Department. Against a good nation we should be helpless," and these animadversions are
reiterated in subsequent entries. Interesting comments from the greatest of contemporary Republicans
on the divine right of the Republican party to conduct all American wars and transact all other
American business of importance. But doubtless the Colonel had forgotten all this in 1917,
and many other good Americans had also forgotten what was notorious in 1898 and the ineptitude
of the Republican War Department, which, as Lieutenant-Colonel Roosevelt said under date of
May 21, 1898, had "no head, no energy, no intelligence." But the old myth sedulously cultivated
by Republicans continued in 1917, that only Republicans are fit to govern, no matter how badly
they govern. Direful prophecies and predictions of disaster to the country by reason of the
Democratic auspices under which the war was to be conducted were freely made.

It is an unpleasant fact that some of the leading Republicans in the Senate and the House harboured
for the President a partisan and personal hatred which made the wish father to the thought.
Yet the expected did not happen, to the amazement and chagrin of the Republican enemies of
the President. No other war was attended with so little scandal and with greater expedition.
The cause was plain. It was the magnificent and aggressive leadership of Woodrow Wilson exerting
itself all along the line, and that leadership was based upon certain fundamental resolutions
which had been taking form in the President's mind for many months previous to his appearance
before Congress asking for the passage of a war declaration. They were as follows: (1) There
was to be no "politics" in the conduct of the war; (2) no political generals would be selected;
(3) every ounce of energy and force in the nation was to be put back of the heads of the Army
and the Navy in a supreme effort to make our influence, moral and physical, quickly felt. Every
effort was made to cut out scandal and to put an absolute embargo on the activities of army
speculators, contractors, and profiteers.

Speaking to me one day about the conduct of the war, shortly after the delivery of his war
message, he said: "We must not in our conduct of this war repeat the scandals of the Civil
and the Spanish-American wars. The politics of generals and admirals must be tabooed. We must
find the best trained minds that we can get and we must back them up at every turn. Our policy
must be 'the best man for every job,' regardless of his political affiliations. This must be
the only test, for, after all, we are the trustees of the boys whose lives will be spent in
this enterprise of war."

This was not an easy policy to pursue. Every kind of harassing demand came from Democratic
senators and representatives to induce the President to recognize political considerations
in the conduct of the war, the argument being that after all the responsibility for its conduct
resting with the Democrats, the administration of the war ought to be under Democratic tutelage
throughout. But the President was firm--in his resolve to see the war through to the end without
political considerations. The political predilections of generals, admirals, and war workers
of every kind was ignored.

Mr. Creel by furnishing a list of Republicans appointed by the President to conspicuous office
has disproved the charge against the President of niggard partisanship. Although the President
would not tolerate a coalition cabinet, he gave to Republicans all manner of opportunities
to share in the conduct and the credit of the war. I quote from Mr. Creel:

    The search for "the best man for the place" was instituted without
    regard to party, faction, blood strain, or creed, and the result was a
    composite organization in which Democrats, Republicans, and
    Independents worked side by side, partisanship forgotten and service
    the one consideration.

    It stood recognized as a matter of course that the soldier selected to
    command our forces in France might well develop into a presidential
    possibility, yet this high place was given without question to Gen.
    John J. Pershing, a life-long Republican and the son-in-law of Senator
    Warren, one of the masters of the Republican machine.

    Admiral William S. Sims, a vociferous Republican, was sent to English
    waters in high command, and while Secretary Daniels was warned at the
    time that Sims's partisanship was of the kind that would not recognize
    the obligations of loyalty or patriotism, he waved the objection aside
    out of his belief that Sims was "the best man for the job".

    For the head of the Aircraft Board, with its task of launching
    America's great aviation programme, Mr. Howard E. Coffin, a
    Republican, was selected and at his right hand Mr. Coffin placed Col.
    Edward A. Deeds, also a Republican of vigour and regularity.

    It is to be remembered also that when failure and corruption were
    charged against the Aircraft Board, the man appointed by the President
    to conduct the highly important investigation was Charles E. Hughes.

    Three Assistant Secretaries of War were appointed by Mr. Baker--Mr.
    Benedict Crowell, a Cleveland contractor; Doctor F. E. Keppel, dean of
    Columbia University, and Emmet J. Scott, formerly Booker Washington's
    secretary--and all three were Republicans. Mr. E. R. Stettinius of the
    J. P. Morgan firm and a Republican was made special assistant to the
    Secretary of War and placed in charge of supplies, a duty that he had
    been discharging for the Allies. Maj. Gen. George W. Goethals, after
    his unfortunate experience in shipbuilding, was given a second chance
    and put in the War Department as an assistant Chief of staff. The
    Chief of Staff himself, Gen. Peyton C. March, was a Republican no less
    definite and regular than General Goethals. Mr. Samuel McRoberts,
    president of the National City Bank and one of the pillars of the
    Republican party, was brought to Washington as chief of the
    procurement section in the Ordnance Section, with the rank of
    brigadier-general, Maj. Gen. E. H. Crowder was appointed Provost-
    Marshal-General, although his Republicanism was well known, and no
    objection of any kind was made when General Crowder put Charles B.
    Warren, the Republican National Committeeman from Michigan, in charge
    of appeal cases, a position of rare power.

    The Emergency Fleet Corporation was virtually turned over to
    Republicans under Charles M. Schwab and Charles Piez. Mr. Vance
    McCormick, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, was made
    chairman of the War Trade Board, but of the eight members the
    following five were Republicans: Albert Strauss of New York, Alonzo E.
    Taylor of Pennsylvania, John Beaver White, of New York, Frank C.
    Munson of New York, and Clarence M. Woolley of Chicago.

    The same conditions obtained in the Red Cross. A very eminent
    Republican, Mr. H. P. Davison, was put in supreme authority, and on
    the Red Cross War Council were placed ex-President Taft; Mr. Charles
    D. Norton, Mr. Taft's secretary while President; and Mr. Cornelius N.
    Bliss, former treasurer of the Republican National Committee. Not only
    was Mr. Taft thus honoured, but upon the creation of a National War
    Labour Board the ex-President was made its chairman and virtually
    empowered to act as the administration's representative in its contact
    with industry.

    Mr. Frank A. Vanderlip, a Republican of iron regularity, was placed in
    charge of the War Savings Stamps Campaign, and when Mr. McAdoo had
    occasion to name Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury he selected
    Prof. L. S. Rowe of the University of Pennsylvania and Mr. H. C.
    Leffingwell of New York.

    Harry A. Garfield, son of the Republican President, was made Fuel
    Administrator, and Mr. Herbert Hoover, now a candidate for President,
    on a platform, of unadulterated Republicanism, was nominated as head
    of the Food Administration.

    The Council of National Defense was an organization of high importance
    and one of tremendous influence from a partisan standpoint, yet its
    executive body was divided as follows: Republicans--Howard E. Coffin,
    Julius Rosenwald, Dr. Hollis Godfrey, Dr. Franklin Martin, Walter S.
    Gifford, Director; Democrats--Daniel Willard and Bernard M. Baruch;
    Independent--Samuel Gompers.

No sooner had the war begun than the preliminary war work of the President began to bear fruit.

Within a month from the declaration of war the traditional policy of the nation was reversed,
by the enactment of the Selective Service Act. A vast machinery of registration was created
that ran without a hitch, and on June 5th more than 10,000,000 men were registered quickly
and efficiently.

Thirty-two encampments--virtual cities, since each had to house 40,000 men--were built in ninety
days from the driving of the first nail, complete in every municipal detail, a feat declared
impossible, and which will stand for all time as a building miracle.

In June, scarcely two months after the President's appearance before Congress, General Pershing
and his staff reached France, and on July 3rd the last of four groups of transports landed
American fighting men in the home of La Fayette and Rochambeau. On October 10th our soldiers
went on the firing-line.

Training camps for officers started in June, and in August there were graduated 27,341 successful
aspirants, ready to assume the tasks of leadership.

In a notable speech, confidential in character, the President on the 8th day of April, 1918,
addressed the foreign correspondents at the White House concerning "our resolutions" and "actions
in the war." The speech was as follows:

    I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet you. Some of you I
    have met before, but not all. In what I am going to say I would prefer
    that you take it in this way, as for the private information of your
    minds and not for transmission to anybody, because I just want, if I
    may, in a few words to create a background for you which may be
    serviceable to you. I speak in confidence.

    I was rendered a little uneasy by what Mr. Lloyd George was quoted as
    having said the other day that the Americans have a great surprise in
    store for Germany. I don't know in what sense he meant that, but there
    is no surprise in store. I want you to know the sequence of resolves
    and of actions concerning our part in the war. Some time ago it was
    proposed to us that we, if I may use the expression feed our men into
    the French and English armies in any unit that might be ready--
    companies or regiments or brigades--and not wait to train and
    coordinate the larger units of our armies before putting them into
    action. My instinctive judgment in the face of that proposition was
    that the American people would feel a very much more ardent interest
    in the war if their men were fighting under their own flag and under
    their own general officers, but at that time, which was some months
    ago, I instructed General Pershing that he had full authority whenever
    any exigency that made such a thing necessary should occur to put the
    men in any units or in any numbers or in any way that was necessary--
    just as he is doing. What I wanted you to know was that that was not a
    new action, that General Pershing was fully instructed about that all
    along.

    Then, similarly with regard to the impression that we are now going to
    rush troops to Europe. Of course, you cannot rush any faster than
    there is means of rushing and, what I have said recently is what I
    have said all along, that we are getting men over there just as fast
    as we can get them ready and as quickly as we can find the ships to
    transport them. We are doing that now and we have been doing it all
    along. Let me point out some of the circumstances: Our first programme
    was to send over ninety thousand men a month, but for several months
    we were sending over only thirty thousand--one third of the programme.
    Why? Not because we didn't have the men ready, not even because we
    didn't have the means of transportation, but because--and there is no
    criticism of the French Government involved in this--because the ports
    assigned to us for landing couldn't take care of the supplies we had
    to send over. We had to send materials and engineers, and workmen,
    even, over to build the docks and the piers that would be adequate to
    handle the number of men we sent over, because this was happening: We
    began with the ninety-thousand programme and the result was that cargo
    ships that we needed were lying in those ports for several weeks
    together without being unloaded, as there was no means of unloading
    them. It was bad economy and bad practice from every point of view to
    have those ships lying there during a period when they could have made
    two or three voyages. There is still this difficulty which I am afraid
    there is no means of overcoming rapidly, that the railroad
    communication between those ports and the front is inadequate to
    handle very large bodies of men. You may notice that General Pershing
    recommended that Christmas boxes should not be sent to the men. That
    sounded like a pretty hard piece of advice, but if you could go to
    those ports and see those Christmas boxes which are still there, you
    would know why he didn't want them sent. There was no means of getting
    them to the front. Vast accumulations of these gifts were piled up
    there with no means of storing them adequately even.

    I just wanted to create for you this picture, that the channels have
    been inevitably choked. Now we believe that, inasmuch as the
    impediments on the other side are being largely removed, we can go
    ahead with the original programme and add to it in proportion as the
    British can spare us the tonnage, and they are going to spare us the
    tonnage for the purpose. And with the extra tonnage which the British
    are going to spare us we will send our men, not to France but to Great
    Britain, and from there they will go to the front through the channel
    ports. You see that makes a new line where the means of handling them
    are already established and where they are more abundant than they are
    at the French ports. Now, I want to say again that none of this
    involves the least criticism of the French authorities, because I
    think they have done their very best in every respect, but they
    couldn't make ports out of hand, they couldn't build new facilities
    suddenly, and their man power was being drawn on in very much larger
    proportion than our man power. Therefore, it was perfectly proper that
    we should send men over there and send materials to make the means of
    handling the troops and the cargoes more expeditiously.

    I want you gentlemen to realize that there was no wave-like motion in
    this thing so far as our purpose and preparation are concerned. We
    have met with delays, of course, in production, some of which might
    have been avoided and ought to have been avoided, and which are being
    slowly corrected, but apart from that the motive power has been back
    of this thing all the time. It has been the means of action that has
    oscillated, it has been sometimes greater and sometimes less than was
    necessary for the programme.

    I for my own part don't like the idea of having surprises. I would
    like the people to be surprised if we didn't do our duty, but not
    surprised that we did do it. Of course, I don't mean that Mr. Lloyd
    George meant that we would surprise everybody by doing our duty, but I
    don't just know how to interpret his idea of it, because I have said
    the same thing to the British representatives all along as I
    informally expressed it to Lord Reading, that we had been and always
    would be doing our damnedest, and there could not be a more definite
    American expression of purpose than that.

    As to another matter (I am just giving you things to think about and
    not things to say, if you will be kind enough to take it that way).
    That speech I made on Saturday I hope was correctly understood. We are
    fighting, as I understand it, for justice to everybody and are ready
    to stop just as soon as justice to everybody is everybody's programme.
    I have the same opinion privately about, I will not say the policy,
    but the methods of the German Government that some gentlemen have who
    see red all the time, but that is not a proper part of my thought. My
    thought is that if the German Government insist that the thing shall
    be settled unjustly, that is to say by force, then of course we accept
    that and will settle it by force. Whenever we see sincere symptoms of
    their desire to settle it by justice, we will not only accept their
    suggestions but we will be glad and eager to accept them, as I said in
    my speech. I would be ashamed to use the knock-down and drag-out
    language; that is not the language of liberty, that is the language of
    braggadocio. For my part, I have no desire to march triumphantly into
    Berlin. If they oblige us to march triumphantly into Berlin, then we
    will do it if it takes twenty years. But the world will come to its
    senses some day, no matter how mad some parts of it may be now, and
    this is my feeling, that we ought when the thing is over to be able to
    look back upon a course which had no element in it which we need be
    ashamed of. So it is so difficult in any kind of a speech, this kind
    or any other, to express two things that seem to be going in opposite
    directions that I wasn't sure that I had succeeded in expressing them
    on Saturday--the sincere willingness to discuss peace whenever the
    proposals are themselves sincere and yet at the same time the
    determination never to discuss it until the basis laid down for the
    discussion is justice. By that I mean justice to everybody. Nobody has
    the right to get anything out of this war, because we are fighting for
    peace if we mean what we say, for permanent peace. No injustice
    furnishes a basis for permanent peace. If you leave a rankling sense
    of injustice anywhere, it will not only produce a running sore
    presently which will result in trouble and probably war, but it ought
    to produce war somewhere. The sore ought to run. It is not susceptible
    to being healed except by remedying the injustice. Therefore, I for my
    part wouldn't want to see a peace which was based upon compelling any
    people, great or small, to live under conditions which it didn't
    willingly accept.

    If I were just a sheer Machiavelli and didn't have any heart but had
    brains, I would say: "If you mean what you say and are fighting for
    permanent peace, then there is only one way to get it, whether you
    like justice or not." It is the only conceivable intellectual basis
    for it, because this is not like the time, years ago, of the Congress
    of Vienna. Peoples were then not willing, but so speechless and
    unorganized and without the means of self-expression, that the
    governments could sit on their necks indefinitely. They didn't know
    how to prevent it. But they are wide awake now and nobody is going to
    sit comfortably on the neck of any people, big or little, and the more
    uncomfortable he is who tries it, the more I am personally pleased. So
    that I am in the position in my mind of trying to work out a purely
    scientific proposition: "What will stay put?"

    A peace is not going to be permanent until that principle is accepted
    by everybody, that, given a political unit, every people has the right
    to determine its own life. And then get drunk as any white and even better sometimes.
This character appropriate, always arriving by chance at the end Facilities of abolitionists, in
time became known in Madrid. I hope it will be useful to you, as it is
    welcome to me to have this occasion of telling you what I really think
    and what I understand we are really doing.

CHAPTER XXXI

THE PEN IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD

During this time the President was constantly on guard at the Executive offices, never for
a moment out of touch with the situation. He was the intimate associate of the men who were
his co-labourers on the various boards that had been set up to prosecute the work of the war.
He seemed to know what was going on in every phase. His evenings were given to examination
of the long dispatches that came from diplomatic and consular representatives of America at
the various capitals of Europe, apprising him of the developments of the great war.

One of the most effective measures for weakening the enemy was the method of attacking the
Central Powers from within by propaganda designed to incite the masses to rebellion and to
drive wedges between Germany and Austria. As George Creel says, "The projectile force of the
President's idealism, its full military value may be measured by the fact that between April
6 and December 8, 1917, sixteen States, great and small, declared war against Germany, or severed
diplomatic relations with her. From the very first the Allies accepted the President as their
spokesman." It was under the influence of Woodrow Wilson's clear vision and magic power of
statement that the true significance of the war became clear. At first it had seemed a war
of nations, and the belligerents had eagerly published official documents, Red Books, White
Books, Yellow Books, and so forth, through all the colours of the spectrum, to show who had
"started the war." The question of who began it became after a while quite secondary to the
question of the fundamental principles at stake in the contest which was no longer a national
conflict, but a world war, waged to the death between two irreconcilable views of the relationship
of government to individuals, the autocratic view on the one hand, on the other the democratic.
It was one man who brought the fundamental principle of the division into the clear light.
A contemporary writer has said that the magical effect of Woodrow Wilson's utterances on all
the Allies was due, not to his rhetoric but to his sublime gift of seeing and stating a profound
truth after which others had been only groping. That is the prophet's power, to voice the latent,
inarticulate aspirations of the multitude. Proof of the value of the President's method of
attacking the Central Powers from within by propaganda was disclosed in General Ludendorff's
and Von Tirpitz's revelations. In Ludendorff's opinion, the President's note to Germany had
forced the Central Empires to yield to the President. Ludendorff says:

    In his answer to our second note, Wilson gave us nothing; he did not
    even tell us whether the Entente took its stand on the Fourteen
    Points. He demanded, however, the suspension of the submarine
    campaign, stigmatized our conduct of the war in the west as a
    violation of international law, and once again sought to meddle with
    intimate questions of our domestic politics.

Speaking again of the answer to one of the Wilson notes, Ludendorff says:

    The answer to Wilson was dispatched on the 20th of October. The
    submarine campaign was abandoned. This concession to Wilson was the
    deepest blow to the army, and especially to the navy. The injury to
    the morale of the fleet must have been immeasurable. The Cabinet had
    thrown up the sponge.

On October 23rd, President Wilson sent the following peremptory message to the Germans:

    It is evident that the German people have no means of commanding the
    acquiescence of the military authorities of the Empire in the popular
    will; that the purpose of the King of Prussia to control the policy of
    the Empire is still unimpaired.

In discussing this and the other Wilson notes, Ludendorff says that they had dealt a vital
blow at the heart of militaristic Germans and finally loosed the grip they held on the German
people. This entire situation is best expressed in Ludendorff's own words:

    On October 23rd or 24th Wilson's answer arrived. It was a strong
    answer to our cowardly note. This time he had made it quite clear that
    the armistice conditions must be such as to make it impossible for
    Germany to resume hostilities, and to give the powers allied against
    her unlimited power to settle themselves the details of the peace
    accepted by Germany. In my view, there could no longer be doubt in any
    mind that we must continue the fight. I felt quite confident that the
    people were still to be won over to this course. He was a lawyer too, like his friend and classmate Romillo, but much more
studious and exploited, which was of necessity, was in prospect Romillo fortune, as he only
he acquired his work. It appeared essential that G. H. Q. in its
    dealings with Berlin should take up a definite stand to the note in
    order to eliminate its ill effects on the army. The telegram to the
    Army ran thus:

        "For the information of all troops: Wilson says in his answer that
        he is ready to propose to his allies that they should enter into
        armistice negotiations; but that the armistice must render Germany
        so defenseless that she cannot take up arms again. He will only
        negotiate with Germany for peace if she concedes all the demands
        of America's associates as to the internal constitutional
        arrangements of Germany; otherwise, there is no choice but
        unconditional surrender.

        "Wilson's answer is a demand for unconditional surrender. It is
        thus unacceptable to us soldiers. It proves that our enemies'
        desire for our destruction, which let loose the war in 1914, still
        exists undiminished. It proves, further, that our enemies use the
        phrase 'peace of justice' merely to deceive us and break our
        resistance. Wilson's answer can thus be nothing for us soldiers
        but a challenge to continue our resistance with all our strength.

        "When our enemies know that no sacrifices will achieve the rupture
        of the German front, then they will be ready for a peace which
        will make the future of our country safe for the broad masses of
        our people.

        "At the front, October 24th, 10 P.M."

This proclamation which was signed by Field Marshal Von Hindenburg was later signed by Ludendorff.
It resulted in the Kaiser's immediate orders for a special conference at which both of these
officials were dismissed from the Imperial German army.

