"No," he said. "I will not go to the top of a high building with you."

"But why not?"

"Because," he replied, "I am afraid you would try to push me off the roof to prevent my drawing
the street fair."

I do not remember that the secretary denied having harbored such a plan. At all events, he
countermanded the remainder of the luncheon order and departed with us.

At the entrance of an office building he made one final desperate appeal: "Just come up to
the top floor and see the view!"

But we stood firm, and he continued with us on our way.

The fair was strung along both sides of a wide, cobbled street. It was really a very jolly
fair, with the usual lot of barkers and the usual gaping crowd, plus many negroes, who stood
fascinated before the highly colored canvas signs outside the tents, with their bizarre pictures
of wild animals, snake charmers, "Nemo, the Malay Prince," and "The Cigarette Fiend," pictured
as a ghastly emaciated object with a blue complexion, and billed as "Endorsed by the Anti-Cigarette
League of America." I wished to inquire why an anti-cigarette league should indorse a cigarette
fiend, but lack of time compelled us to press on, leaving the apparent paradox unsolved.

As we progressed between the tents and the booths with their catchpenny "wheels of fortune,"
and ring-tossing enticements, the secretary maintained a protesting silence.

Near the end of the block we stopped to listen to a particularly vociferous barker. I saw my
companion take his pad from his pocket and place it under his arm, while he sharpened a pencil.

"Come!" cried the secretary. "Come across the square and let me show you our beautiful bronze
fountain. Draw that!"

But my companion was already beginning to sketch. He was drawing the barker and the crowd.

Meanwhile an expression of horror came into the secretary's face. Looking at him, I became
conscience-stricken.

"Come away," I said gently, taking him by the arm. "Don't watch him draw. He draws wonderfully,
but Art for Art's sake doesn't appeal to you just now. The better he draws the worse it will
make you feel. Let me get your mind off all this. Let me take you over to the autodrome, where
we can see Mr. O.K. Hager and his beautiful sister, Miss Olive Hager, the 'Two Daredevil Motorcyclists,
in the Thrilling Race against Death.' That will make you forget."

"No," said the secretary, shaking his head with a despondency the very sight of which made
me sad; "I have letters to sign at the office."

"And we have taken up your whole day!"

"It has been a pleasure," he said kindly. "There is only one thing that worries me. Those drawings
are not going to represent what is typical of Montgomery life. Not in the least!"

There arose in me a sudden desire to comfort him.

"How would it be," I suggested, "if I were to print that statement in my book?"

He looked at me in surprise.

"But you couldn't very well do that, could you?"

"Certainly," I replied.

His face brightened. It was delightful to see the change come over him.

"For that matter," I went on, "I might say even more. I could say that, while I admire my companion
as a man, and as an artist, he lacks ingenuity in ordering breakfast. He always reads over
the menu and then orders a baked apple and scrambled eggs and bacon. Would you like me to attack
him on that line also?"

"Oh, no," said the secretary. "Nothing of that kind. It's just about these pictures. They aren't
representative. If you'll say that, I'll be more than satisfied."

Presently we parted.

"Don't forget!" he said as we shook hands in farewell.

And I have not forgotten. Moreover, to give full measure, I am going to ask the printer to
set the statement in italics:

The drawings accompanying this chapter are not representative of what is typical of Montgomery
life.

With this statement my companion is in full accord. He admits that he would have drawn the
State House had there been no fair, to interfere. But, as with certain items on the breakfast
bill, street fairs are a passion with him. And so they are with me.

CHAPTER LVI

THE CITY OF THE CREOLE

When a poet, a painter, or a sculptor wishes to personify a city, why does he invariably give
it the feminine gender? Why is this so, even though the city be named for a man, or for a masculine
saint? And why is it so in the case of commonplace cities, commercial cities, and ugly, sordid
cities? It is not difficult to understand why a beautiful, sparkling city, like Washington
or Paris, suggests a handsome woman, richly gowned and bedecked with jewels, but it is hard
to understand why some other cities, far less pleasing, seem somehow to be stamped with the
qualities of woman-nature rather than man-nature. Is it perhaps because the nature of all cities
is so complicated? Is it because they are volatile, changeful, baffling? Or is it only that
they are the mothers of great families of men?

When I arrive in a strange city I feel as though I were making the acquaintance of a woman
of whom I have often heard. I am curious about her. I am alert. I gaze at her eagerly, wondering
if she is as I have imagined her. I try to read her expression while listening to her voice.
I consider her raiment, noticing whether it is fine, whether it is good only in spots, and
whether it is well put together. I inspect the important buildings, boulevards, parks, and
monuments with which she is jeweled, and judge by them not only of her prosperity, but of her
sense of beauty. Before long I have a distinct impression of her. Sometimes, as with a woman,
this first impression has to be revised; sometimes not. Sometimes, on acquaintance, a single
feature, or trait, becomes so important in my eyes that all else seems inconsequential. A noble
spirit may cover physical defects; beauty may seem to compensate for weaknesses of character.
The spell of a beautiful city which is bad resembles the spell of such a city's prototype among
women.

Some young growing cities are like young growing women of whom we think: "She is as yet unformed,
but she will fill out and become more charming as she grows older." Or again we think: "She
is somewhat dowdy and run down at the heels but she is ambitious, and is replenishing her wardrobe
as she can afford it." One expects such failings in young cities, and readily forgives them
where there is wholesome promise for the future. But where old cities become slovenly, the
affair is different, for then it means physical decay, and physical decay should never come
to a city--for a city is not only feminine, but should be immortal. The symbol for every city
should be a goddess, forever in her prime.

Among southern cities Richmond is the grande dame; she is gray and distinguished, and wears
handsome old brocades and brooches. Richmond is aquiline and crisp and has much "manner." But
though Charleston is actually the older, the wonderful beauty of the place, the softness of
the ancient architectural lines, the sweet scents wafting from walled gardens, the warmth of
color everywhere, gives the place that very quality of immortal youth and loveliness which
is so rare in cities, and is so much to be desired. Charleston I might allegorize in the person
of a young woman I met there. I was in the drawing-room of a fine old house; a beautifully
proportioned room, paneled to the ceiling, hung with family portraits and other old paintings,
and furnished with mahogany masterpieces a century and a half old. The girl lived in this house.
She was not exactly pretty, nor was her figure beautiful in the usual sense; yet it was beautiful,
all the same, with a sort of long-limbed, supple, aristocratic aliveness. Most of all there
was about her a great fineness--the kind of fineness which seems to be the expression of generations
of fineness. She was the granddaughter of a general in the Civil War, the great-granddaughter
of an ambassador, the great-great-granddaughter of a Revolutionary hero, and though one could
not but be thankful that she failed of striking resemblance to the portraits of these admirable
ancestors, nevertheless it seemed to me that, had I not known definitely of their place in
her family history, I might almost have sensed them hovering behind her: a background, nebulous
and shadowy, out of which she had emerged.

Memphis, upon the other hand, will always be to me a lively modern débutante. I vision her
as dancing--dancing to Handy's ragtime music--all shoulders, neck, and arms, and tulle, and
twenty-dollar satin slippers. Atlanta, too, is young, vivid, affluent, altogether modern; while
as for Birmingham, she is pretty, but a little strident, a little overdressed; touched a little
with the amiability, and the other qualities, of the nouveau riche.

The beauty of New Orleans is of a different kind. She is a full-blown, black-eyed, dreamy,
drawly creature, opulent of figure, white of skin, and red of lip. Like San Francisco she has
Latin blood which makes her love and preserve the carnival spirit; but she is more voluptuous
than San Francisco, for not only is she touched with the languor and the fire of her climate,
but she is without the virile blood of the forty-niner, or the invigorating contact of the
fresh Pacific wind. In my imaginary picture I see her yawning at eleven in the morning, when
her negro maid brings black coffee to her bedside--such wonderful black coffee!--whereas, at
that hour, I conceive San Francisco as having long been up and about her affairs. Even in the
afternoon I fancy my New Orleans beauty as a little bit relaxed. But at dinner she becomes
alive, and after dinner more alive, and by midnight she is like a flame.

I must admit, however, that of late years New Orleans has developed a perfect case of dual
personality, and that, as often happens where there is dual personality, one side of her nature
seems altogether incompatible with the other. The very new New Orleans has no resemblance to
the picture I have drawn; moreover, my picture is not her favorite likeness of herself. She
prefers more recent ones--pictures showing the lines of determination which, within the last
ten years have stamped themselves upon her features, as she has fought and overcome the defects
of character which logically accompanied her peculiar, temperamental type of charm. I, upon
the other hand, am like some lover who values most an older picture of the woman he adores.
I admire her for building character, but it is by her languorous beauty that I am infatuated,
and the portrait which most effectively displays that beauty is the one for which I care.

Her very failings were so much a part of her that they made us the more sympathetic; she was
too lovely to be greatly blamed for anything; gazing into her eyes, we hardly noticed that
there was dust under the piano and in the corners; dining at her sumptuous table, we gave but
little thought to the fact that the cellar was damp, the house none too healthy, and that there
were mosquitoes and rats about the place; nor did it seem to matter, in face of her allurements,
that she was shiftless, extravagant, improvident in the management of her affairs. If these
things were brought to our attention, we excused them on the grounds of Latin blood and enervating
climate.

But if we excused her, she did not excuse herself. Without being shaken awake by an earthquake,
or forced to action by a devastating fire or flood, she set to work, calmly and of her own
volition, to reform her character.

First she cleaned house, providing good surface drainage, an excellent filtered water supply
from the river in place of her old mosquito-breeding cisterns, and modern sewers in place of
cesspools. She killed rats by the hundreds of thousands, rat-proofed her buildings, and thus,
at one stroke, eliminated all fear of bubonic plague. She began to take interest in the public
schools, and soon trebled their advantages. She concerned herself with the revision of repressive
tax laws. She secured one of the best street railway systems in the country. But, perhaps most
striking of all, she set to work to build scientifically toward the realization of a gigantic
dream. This dream embodies the resumption by New Orleans of her old place as second seaport
city. To this end she is doing more than any other city to revive the commerce of the Mississippi
River, and is at the same time making a strong bid for trade by way of the Panama Canal, as
well as other sea traffic. She has restored her forty miles of water front to the people, has
built municipal docks and warehouses at a cost of millions, and has so perfectly coördinated
her river-rail-sea traffic-handling agencies that rates have been greatly reduced. Upon these,
and related enterprises, upward of a hundred millions are being spent, and the vast plan is
working out with such promise that one almost begins to fear lest New Orleans become too much
enamored of her new-found materialism--lest the easy-going, pleasure-loving, fascinating Creole
belle be transformed into the much-less-rare and much-less-desirable business type of woman:
a woman whose letters, instead of being written in a fine French hand and scented with the
faint fragrance of vertivert, are typewritten upon commercial paper; whose lips, instead of
causing one to think of kisses, are laden with the deadly cant of commerce; whose skin, instead
of seeming to be made of milk and rose leaves, is dappled with industrial soot.

Lord Chesterfield in one of his letters to his son, intimated that beautiful women desire to
be flattered upon their intelligence, while intelligent women who are not altogether ugly like
to be told that they are beautiful. So with New Orleans. Speak of her individuality, her picturesqueness,
her gift of laughter, and she will listen with polite ennui; but admire her commercial progress
and she will hang upon your words. Gaiety and charm are so much a part of her that she not
only takes them as a matter of course, but seems to doubt, sometimes, that they are virtues.
She is like some unusual and fascinating woman who, instead of rejoicing because she is not
like all other women, begins to wonder if she ought not to be like them. Perhaps she is wrong
to be gay? Perhaps her carnival proves her frivolous? Perhaps she ought not to continue to
hold a carnival each year?

Far to the north of New Orleans the city of St. Paul was afflicted, some years since, by a
similar agitation. It will be remembered that St. Paul used to build an ice palace each year.
People used to go to see it as they go to New Orleans for Mardi Gras. Then came some believer
in the standardization of cities, advancing the idea that ice palaces advertised St. Paul as
a cold place. As a result they ceased to be built. St. Paul threw away something which drew
attention to her and which gave her character. Moreover, I am told this mania went so far that
when folders were issued for the purpose of advertising the region, they were designed to suggest
the warmth and brilliance of the tropics. Had St. Paul a bad climate, instead of a peculiarly
fine one, we might feel sympathetic tolerance for these performances, but a city which enjoys
cool summers and dry, bracing winters has no apologies to make upon the score of climate, and
only need apologize if she tries to make us think that bananas and cocoanuts grow on sugar-maple
trees. However, in the last year or two, St. Paul has perceived the folly of her course, and
has resumed her annual carnival.

In the case of New Orleans I cannot believe there is real danger that the carnival will be
given up. Instead, I believe that the business enthusiasts will be appeased--as they were a
year or two ago, for the first time in carnival history--by the inclusion of an industrial
pageant glorifying the city's commercial renaissance. Also the New Orleans newspapers soothe
the spirit of the Association of Commerce, at carnival time, by publishing items presumably
furnished by that capable organization, showing that business is going on as usual, that bank
clearings have not diminished during the festivities, and that, despite the air of happiness
that pervades the town, New Orleans is not really beginning to have such a good time as a stranger
might suppose from superficial signs. With such concessions made to solemn visaged commerce,
is the carnival continued.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are at least six cities on this continent which every one should see. Every one should
see New York because it is the largest city in the world, and because it combines the magnificence,
the wonder, the beauty, the sordidness, and the shame of a great metropolis; every one should
see San Francisco because it is so vivid, so alive, so golden; every one should see Washington,
the clean, white splendor of which is like the embodiment of a national dream; every one should
see the old gray granite city of Quebec, piled on its hill above the river like some fortified
town in France; every one should see the sweet and aristocratic city of Charleston, which suggests
a museum of tradition and early American elegance; and of course every one should see New Orleans.

As to whether it is best to see the city in everyday attire, or masked for the revels, that
is a matter of taste, and perhaps of age as well. To any one who loves cities, New Orleans
is always good to see, while to the lover of spectacles and fêtes the carnival is also worth
seeing--once. The two are, however, hardly to be seen to advantage simultaneously. To visit
New Orleans in carnival time is like visiting some fine old historic mansion when it is all
in a flurry over a fancy-dress ball. The furniture is moved, master, mistress and servants
are excited, the cook is overworked and is perhaps complaining a little, and the brilliant
costumes of the masquerade divert the eye of the visitor so that he hardly knows what sort
of house he is in. Attend the ball if you like, but do not fail to revisit the house when normal
conditions have been restored; see the festivities of Mardi Gras if you will, but do not fail
to browse about old New Orleans and sit down at her famous tables when her chefs have time
to do their best.

CHAPTER LVII

HISTORY, THE CREOLE, AND HIS DUELS

Canal Street is to New Orleans much more than Main Street is to Buffalo, much more than Broad
Street is to Philadelphia, much more than Broadway and Fifth Avenue are to New York, for Canal
Street divides New Orleans as no other street divides an American city. It divides New Orleans
as the Seine divides Paris, and there is not more difference between the right bank of the
Seine and the Latin Quarter than between American New Orleans and Creole New Orleans: between
the newer part of the city and the vieux carré. The sixty squares ("islets" according to the
Creole idiom, because each block was literally an islet in time of flood) which comprise the
old French town established in 1718 by the Sieur de Bienville, are unlike the rest of the city
not merely in architecture, but in all respects. The street names change at Canal Street, the
highways become narrower as you enter the French quarter, and the pavements are made of huge
stone blocks brought over long ago as ballast in sailing ships. Nor is the difference purely
physical. For though they will tell you that this part of the city is not so French and Spanish
as it used to be, that it has run down, that large parts of it have been given over to Italians
of the lower class, and to negroes, it remains not only in appearance, but in custom, thought
and character, the most perfectly foreign little tract of land in the whole United States.
Long ago, under the French flag, it was a part of the Roman Catholic bishopric of Quebec; later
under the Spanish flag, a part of that of Havana; and it is charming to trace in old buildings,
names, and customs the signs of this blended French and Spanish ancestry.

La Salle, searching out a supposed route to China by way of the Mississippi River, seems to
have perceived what the New Orleans Association of Commerce perceives to-day: that the control
of the mouth of the river ought to mean also the control of a vast part of the continent. At
all events, he took possession in 1682 in the name of the French King, calling the river St.
Louis and the country Louisiana. The latter name persisted, but La Salle himself later rechristened
the river, giving it the name Colbert, thereby showing that in two attempts he could not find
a name one tenth as good as that already provided by the savages. The "St. Louis River" might,
from its name, be a fair-sized stream, but "Colbert" sounds like the name of a river about
twenty miles long, forty feet wide at the mouth, and five feet deep at the very middle.

La Salle intended to build a fort at a point sixty leagues above the mouth of the river, but
his expedition met with disaster upon disaster, until at last he was assassinated in Texas,
when setting out on foot to seek help from Canada. In 1699 came Iberville, the Canadian, exploring
the river and fixing on the site for the future city. Iberville established settlements at
old Biloxi (now Ocean Springs) and Mobile, but before he had time to make a town at New Orleans
he caught yellow fever at Havana, and died there. It therefore remained for his brother, Bienville,
actually to establish the town, and New Orleans is Bienville's city, just as Detroit is Cadillac's,
and Cleveland General Moses Cleveland's.

Bienville's settlers were hardy pioneers from Canada, and presently we find him writing to
France: "Send me wives for my Canadians. They are running in the woods after Indian girls."
The priests also urged that unless white wives could be sent out for the settlers, marriages
with Indians be sanctioned.

Having now a considerable investment in Louisiana, France felt that a request for wives for
the colony was practical and legitimate. Louisiana must have population. A bonus of so much
per head was offered for colonists, and hideous things ensued: servants, children, and helpless
women were kidnapped, and the occupants of hospitals, asylums, and houses of correction were
assembled and deported. Incidentally it will be remembered that out of these black deeds flowered
"the first masterpiece of French literature which can properly be called a novel," the Abbé
Prévost's "Manon Lescaut," which has been dramatized and redramatized, and which is the theme
of operas by both Massenet and Puccini. Though a grave alleged to be that of Manon used to
be shown on the outskirts of the city, there is doubt that such a person actually existed,
although those who wish to believe in a flesh-and-blood Manon may perhaps take encouragement
from the fact that the arrival in the colony of a Chevalier des Grieux, in the year 1719, fourteen
years before the book appeared, has been established, and, further, that the name of the Chevalier
des Grieux may be seen upon a crumbling tomb in one of the river parishes.

When the girls arrived they were on inspection in the daytime, but at night were carefully
guarded by soldiers, in the house where they were quartered together. Miss Grace King, in her
delightful book, "New Orleans, the Place and the People," tells us that in these times there
were never enough girls to fill the demand for wives, and that in one instance two young bachelors
proposed to fight over a very plain girl--the last one left out of a shipload--but that the
commandant obliged them to settle their dispute by the more pacific means of drawing lots.
As the place became settled Ursuline sisters arrived and established schools. And at last,
a quarter of a century after the landing of the first shipment of girls, the curious history
of female importations ended with the arrival of that famous band of sixty demoiselles of respectable
family and "authenticated spotless reputation," who came to be taken as wives by only the more
prosperous young colonists of the better class. The earlier, less reputable girls have come
down to us by the name of "correction girls," but these later arrivals--each furnished by the
Company of the West with a casket containing a trousseau--are known to this day as les filles
à la cassette, or "casket girls."

A curious feature of this bit of history, as it applies to present-day New Orleans, is that
though one hears of many families that claim descent from some nice, well-behaved "casket girl,"
one never by any chance hears of a family claiming to be descended from a lady of the other
stock. When it is considered that the "correction girls" far outnumbered their virtuous sisters
of the casket, and ought, therefore, by the law of averages, to have left a greater progeny,
the matter becomes stranger still, taking on a scientific interest. The explanation must, however,
be left to some mind more astute than mine--some mind capable, perhaps, of unraveling also
those other riddles of New Orleans namely: Who was the mysterious chevalier who many years
ago invented that most delectable of sucreries, the praline, and whither did he vanish? And
how, although the refugee Duc d'Orleans (later Louis Philippe of France) stayed but a short
time in New Orleans, did he manage to sleep in so many hundred beds, and in houses which were
not built until long after his departure? And why are so many of the signs, over bars, restaurants,
and shops, of that blue and white enamel one associates with the signs of the Western Union
Telegraph Company? And why is the nickel as characteristic of New Orleans as is the silver
dollar of the farther Middle West, and gold coin of the Pacific Slope--why, when one pays for
a ten-cent purchase with a half-dollar, does one receive eight nickels in change? Ah, but New
Orleans is a mysterious city!

Once, when the French and English were fighting for the possession of Canada and New Orleans
was depending for protection on Swiss mercenaries, the French officer in command of these troops
disciplined them by stripping them and tying them to trees, where they were a prey to the terrible
mosquitoes of the Gulf. One day they killed him and fled, but some of them were captured. These
were taken back to New Orleans, court-martialed, and punished according to the regulations:
they were nailed alive to their coffins and sawed in two.

Ceded to Spain by a secret clause in the Treaty of Paris, of which she did not know until 1764,
Louisiana could not believe the news. Even when the Acadians, appeared, after having been so
cruelly ejected from their lands in what is now New Brunswick, Louisiana could not believe
that Louis XV would coldly cast off his loyal colony. The fact that he had done so was not
credited until a Spanish governor arrived. For three years after, there was confusion. Then
a strong force was sent from Spain under Count O'Reilly, a man of Irish birth, but Spanish
allegiance, and the flag of Spain was raised. O'Reilly maintained viceregal splendor; he invited
leading citizens to a levee; here in his own house he caused his soldiers to seize the group
of prominent men who had attempted to prevent the accomplishment of Spanish rule, and five
of these he presently caused to be shot as rebels.

Spanish governors came and went. The people settled down. At one time Padre Antonio de Sedella,
a Spanish Capuchin, arrived with a commission to establish in the city the Holy office of the
Inquisition, but he was discouraged and shipped back to Cadiz. Miss King tells us that when,
half a century later, the calaboose was demolished, secret dungeons containing instruments
of torture were discovered.

On Good Friday, 1788, fire broke out, and as the priests refused to let the bells be rung in
warning, saying that all bells must be dumb on Good Friday, the conflagration gained such headway
that it could not be checked, and a large part of the old French town was reduced to ashes.
Six years later another fire equally destructive, completed the work of blotting out the French
town, and the old New Orleans we now know is the Spanish city which arose in its place: a city
not of wood but of adobe or brick, stuccoed and tinted, of arcaded walks, galleries, jalousies,
ponderous doors, and inner courts with carriage entrances from the street, and, behind, the
most charming and secluded gardens. Also, owing to premiums offered by Baron Carondelet, the
governor, tile roofs came into vogue, so that the city became comparatively fireproof. Much
of the present-day charm of the old city is due also to the noble Andalusian, Don Andreas Almonaster
y Roxas, who having immigrated and made a great fortune in the city, became its benefactor,
building schools and other public institutions, the picturesque old Cabildo, or town hall,
which is now a most fascinating museum, the cathedral, which adjoins the Cabildo, and which,
like it, faces Jackson Square, formerly the Place d'Armes. In front of the altar of his cathedral
Don Andreas is buried, and masses are said, in perpetuity, for his soul. When the Don's young
widow remarried, she and her husband were pursued by a charivari lasting three days and three
nights--the most famous charivari in the history of a city widely noted for these detestable
functions. The Don's daughter, a great heiress, became the Baronne Poñtalba and resided in
magnificence in Paris, where she died, a very old woman, in 1874.

In the Place d'Armes much of the early history of New Orleans, and indeed, of Louisiana, was
written. Here, and in the Cabildo, the transfers from flag to flag took place, ending with
the ceding of Louisiana by Spain to France, and by France to the United States. At this time
New Orleans had about ten thousand inhabitants, most of the whites being Creoles.

Harris Dickson, who knows a great deal about New Orleans, declared in an article published
some years ago, that outside lower Louisiana the word "Creole" is still misunderstood, and
added this definition of the term: "A person of mixed French and Spanish blood, born in Louisiana."
As I understand it, however, the blood need not necessarily be mixed, but may be pure Spanish
or pure French, or again, there may be some admixture of English blood. The word itself was,
I am informed, originally Spanish, and signified an American descended from Spaniards; later
it got into the language of the French West Indies, whence it was imported, to Louisiana, about
the end of the eighteenth century, by refugees who arrived in considerable numbers from San
Domingo, after the revolution of the blacks there. Thus, the early French settlers did not
use the word.

If any misapprehension as to whether a Creole is a white person does still exist, that misunderstanding
is, I believe, to be traced to the doors of an old-time cheap burlesque theater in Chicago,
where the late impresario, Sam T. Jack, put on a show in which mulatto women were billed as
"a galaxy of Creole beauties." This show traveled about the country libeling the Creoles and
doubtless causing many persons of that class which attended Sam T. Jack's shows, to believe
that "Creole" means something like "quadroon." But when the show got to Baton Rouge the manager
was waited upon by a committee of citizens who said certain things to him which caused him
to give up his engagement there and cancel any other engagements he had in the Creole country.

True, one frequently hears references in New Orleans to "Creole mammies," and "Creole negroes,"
but the word used in that sense merely indicates a negro who has been the servant of Creoles,
and who speaks French--"gombo French" the curious dialect is called. Similarly one hears of
"Creole ponies"--these being ponies of the small, strong type used by the Cajan farmers. According
to the Louisiana dialect Longfellow's "Evangeline" was a Cajan, the word being a corruption
of "Acadian." About a thousand of these unfortunate expatriates arrived in New Orleans between
1765 and 1768. Within a century they had multiplied to forty times that number, spreading over
the entire western part of the State.

Much of the temperament, the gaiety, the sensitiveness of New Orleans comes from the Creole.
He was Latin enough to be a good deal of a gambler, to love beautiful women, and on slight
provocation to draw his sword.

The street names of New Orleans--not only those of the French Quarter, but of the whole city--reflect
his various tastes. Many of the streets bear the names of historic figures of the French and
Spanish régimes; Rampart Street, formerly the rue des Ramparts marks, like the outer boulevards
of Paris, the line of the old city wall. Other streets were given pretty feminine names by
the old Creole gallants: Suzette, Celeste, Estelle, Angelie, and the like. The devout doubtless
had their share in the naming of Religious Street, Nuns Street, Piety Street, Assumption Street,
and Amen Street. The taste for Greek and Roman classicism which developed in France at the
time of the Revolution, found its way to Louisiana, and is reflected in New Orleans by streets
bearing the names of gods, demi gods, the muses and the graces. The pronunciation given to
some of these names is curious: Melpomene, instead of being given four syllables is called
Melpomeen; Calliope is similarly Callioap; Euterpe, Euterp, and so on. This, however, is the
result not of ignorance, but of a slight corruption of the correct French pronunciations, the
Americans having taken their way of pronouncing the names from the French. The Napoleonic wars
are commemorated in the names of Napoleon Avenue, and Austerlitz and Jena Streets, and the
visit of Lafayette in the naming for him of both a street and an avenue. But perhaps the most
striking names of all the old ones were Mystery Street, Madman's Street, Love Street (Rue de
l'Amour), Goodchildren Street (Rue des Bons Enfants), and above all those two streets in the
Faubourg Marigny which old Bernard Marigny amused himself by naming for two games of chance
at which, it is said, he had lost a fortune--namely Bagatelle and Craps--the latter not the
game played with dice, but an old-time game of cards.

The French spoken by cultivated Creoles bears to the French of modern France about the same
relation as the current English of Virginia does to that of England. Creole French is founded
largely upon the French of the seventeenth and early eighteenth century, just as many of the
so-called "Americanisms" of older parts of the country, including Virginia and New England,
are Elizabethan. The early English and French colonists, coming to this country with the language
of their times, dropped, over here, into a linguistic backwater. In the mother countries language
continued to renew itself as it flowed along, by elisions, by the adoption and legitimatizing
of slang words (as for instance the word "cab," to which Dean Swift objected on the ground
that it was slang for "cabriolet"), and by all the other means through which our vocabularies
are forever changing. But to the colonies these changes were not carried, and such changes
as occurred in the French and English of America were, for the most part, separate and distinct
(as exampled by such Creole words as "banquette" for "sidewalk," in place of the French word
trottoir, and the word "baire," whence comes the American term "mosquito bar.") The influence
of colloquial French from Canada may also be traced in New Orleans, and the language there
was further affected by the strange jargon spoken by the Creole negro--precisely as the English
dialect of negroes in other parts of the South may be said to have affected the speech of all
the Southern States.

Between the dialect of the Louisiana Cajan and that of the French Canadian of Quebec and northern
New York there is a strong resemblance; but the Creole negro language is a thing entirely apart,
being made up, it is said, partly from French and partly from African word sounds, just as
the "gulla" of the South Carolina coast is made up from African and English. The one is no
more intelligible to a Frenchman than the other to a Londoner. The ignorant Creole negro wishing
to say "I do not understand," would not say "moi je ne comprends pas," but "mo pas connais";
similarly for "I am going away," he does not say, "je m'en vais," but "ma pe couri"; while
for "I have a horse," instead of "j'ai un cheval," he will put the statement, "me ganyé choue."
It is a dialect lacking mood, tense, and grammar.

To this day one may occasionally see in New Orleans and in other lower river towns an old "mammy"
wearing the bandanna headdress called a tignon, which, toward the end of the eighteenth century,
was made compulsory for colored women in Louisiana. The need for some such distinguishing racial
badge was, it is said, twofold. Yellow sirens from the French West Indies, flocking to New
Orleans, were becoming exceedingly conspicuous in dress and adornment; furthermore one hears
stories of wealthy white men, fathers of octoroon or quadroon girls, who sent these illegitimate
daughters abroad to be educated. The latter, one learns from many sources, were very often
beautiful in the extreme, as were also the Domingan girls, and history is full of the tales
of the curious, wild, fashionably caparisoned, declassé circle of society, which came to exist
in New Orleans through the presence there of so many alluring women of light color and equally
light character. Some of these women, it is said, could hardly be distinguished from brunette
whites, and it was largely for this reason that the tignon was placed by law upon the heads
of all women having negro blood.

No morsels from the history of old New Orleans are more suggestive to the imagination than
the hints we get from many sources of wildly dissipated life centering around the notorious
quadroon balls--or as they were called in their day, cordon bleu balls. An old guide book informs
me that the women who were the great attraction at these functions were "probably the handsomest
race of women in the world, and were, besides, splendid dancers and finished dressers." Authorities
seem to agree that these balls were exceedingly popular among the young Creole gentlemen, as
well as with men visiting the city, and that duels, resulting from quarrels over the women,
were of common occurrence. If a Creole had the choice of weapons slender swords called colichemardes
were used, whereas pistols were almost invariably selected by Americans. Duels with swords
were often fought indoors, but when firearms were to be employed the combatants repaired to
one of the customary dueling grounds. Under the fine old live oaks of the City Park--then out
in the country--it is said that as many as ten duels have been fought in a single day. Duels
having their beginnings at the quadroon balls were, however, often fought in St. Anthony's
Garden, for the ballroom was in a building (now occupied by a sisterhood of colored nuns) which
stands on Orleans Street, near where it abuts against the Garden. This garden, bearing the
name of the saint whose temptations have been of such conspicuous interest to painters of the
nude, is not named for him so much in his own right, as because he was the patron of that same
Padre Antonio de Sedella, already mentioned, who came to New Orleans to institute the Inquisition,
but who, after having been sent away by Governor Miro, returned as a secular priest and became
much beloved for his good works. Padre Antonio lived in a hut near the garden, and it is he
who figures in Thomas Bailey Aldrich's story "Père Antoine's Date Palm."

To the Creole, more than to any other source, may be traced the origin of dueling in the United
States, and no city in the country has such a dueling history as New Orleans. The American
took the practice from the Latin and by the adoption of pistols made the duel a much more serious
thing than it had previously been, when swords were employed and first blood usually constituted
"satisfaction." Up to the time of the Civil War the man who refused a challenge became a sort
of outcast, and I have been told that even to this day a duel is occasionally fought. Governor
Claiborne, first American governor of Louisiana, was a duelist, and his monument--a family
monument in the annex of the old Basin Street division of St. Louis cemetery--bears upon one
side an inscription in memory of his brother-in-law, Micajah Lewis, "who fell in a duel, January
14, 1804."

Gayarré, in his history of Louisiana, tells a story of six young French noblemen who, one night,
paired off and fought for no reason whatever save out of bravado. Two of them were killed.

Two famous characters of New Orleans, about the middle of the last century, were Major Joe
Howell, a brother-in-law of Jefferson Davis, and Major Henry, a dare-devil soldier of fortune
who had filibustered in Nicaragua and fought in the Mexican War. One day while drinking together
they quarreled, and as a result a duel was arranged to take place the same afternoon. Henry
kept on drinking, but Howell went to sleep and slept until it was time to go to the dueling
ground, when he took one cocktail, and departed.

Feeling that a duel over a disagreement the occasion for which neither contestant could remember,
was the height of folly, friends intervened, and finally succeeded in getting Major Henry to
say that the fight could be called off if Howell would apologize.

"For what?" he was asked.

"Don't know and don't care," returned the old warrior.

As Howell would not apologize, navy revolvers were produced and the two faced each other, the
understanding being that they should begin at ten paces with six barrels loaded, firing at
will and advancing. At the word "Fire!" both shot and missed, but Howell cocked his revolver
with his right thumb and fired again immediately, wounding Henry in the arm. Henry then fired
and missed a second time, while Howell's third shot struck his antagonist in the abdomen. Wounded
as he was, Henry managed to fire again, narrowly missing the other, who was not only a giant
in size, but was a conspicuous mark, owing to the white clothing which he wore. At this Howell
advanced a step and took steady aim, and he would almost certainly have killed his opponent
had not his own second reached out and thrown his pistol up, sending the shot wild. This occurred
after the other side has cried "Stop!"--as it had been agreed should be done in case either
man was badly wounded. A foul was consequently claimed, the seconds drew their pistols, and
a general battle was narrowly averted. After many weeks Henry recovered.

A great number of historic duels were over politics. Such a one was the fight which took place
in 1843, between Mr. Hueston, editor of the Baton Rouge "Gazette" and Mr. Alcee La Branche,
a Creole gentleman who had been speaker of the Louisiana House of Representatives, and was
running for Congress. Mr. La Branche was one of the few public men in the State who had never
fought a duel, and in the course of a violent political campaign, Hueston twitted him on this
subject in the columns of the "Gazette," trying to make him out a coward. Soon after the insulting
article appeared, the two men met in the billiard room of the old St. Charles Hotel, and when
La Branche demanded an apology, and was refused, he struck Hueston with a cane, or a cue, and
knocked him down. A duel was, of course, arranged, the weapons selected being double-barreled
shotguns loaded with ball. At the first discharge Hueston's hat and coat were punctured by
bullets. He demanded a second exchange of shots, which resulted about as before--his own shots
going wild, while those of his opponent narrowly missed him. Hueston, however, obstinately
insisted that the duel be continued, and the guns were loaded for the third time. In the next
discharge the editor received a scalp wound. It was now agreed by all present that matters
had gone far enough, but Hueston remained obdurate in his intention to kill or be killed, and
in the face of violent protests, demanded that the guns again be loaded. The next exchange
of shots proved to be the last. Hueston let both barrels go without effect, and fell to the
ground shot through the lungs. Taken to the Maison de Santé, he was in such agony that he begged
a friend to finish the work by shooting him through the head. Within a few hours he was dead.

The old guide book from which I gather these items cites, also, cases in which duels were fought
over trivial matters, such, for instance, as a mildly hostile newspaper criticism of an operatic
performance, and an argument between a Creole and a Frenchman over the greatness of the Mississippi
River.

Professor Brander Matthews tells me of an episode in which the wit exhibited by a Creole lawyer,
in the course of a case in a New Orleans court, caused him to be challenged. The opposing counsel,
likewise a Creole, was a great dandy. He appeared in an immaculate white suit and boiled shirt,
but the weather was warm, and after he had spoken for perhaps half an hour his shirt was wilted,
and he asked an adjournment. The adjournment over, he reappeared in a fresh shirt, but this
too wilted presently, whereupon another adjournment was taken. At the end of this he again
reappeared wearing a third fresh shirt, and in it managed to complete his plea.

It now became the other lawyer's turn. He arose and, speaking with the utmost gravity, addressed
the jury.

"Gentlemen," he said (Professor Matthews tells it in French), "I shall divide my speech into
three shirts." He then announced: "First shirt"--and made his first point. This accomplished,
he paused briefly, then proclaimed: "Second shirt," and followed with his second point. Then:
"Third and last shirt," and after completing his argument sat down. The delighted jury gave
him the verdict, but his witticism involved him in a duel with the worsted advocate. The result
of this duel Professor Matthews does not tell, but if the wag's colichemarde was as swift and
penetrating as his wit, we may surmise that his opponent of the Code Napoléon and the code
duello had a fourth shirt spoiled.

CHAPTER LVIII

FROM ANTIQUES TO PIRATES

The numerous antique shops of the French quarter, with their gray, undulating floors and their
piled-up, dusty litter of old furniture, plate, glass, and china, and the equally numerous
old book stores, with their piles of French publications, their shadowy corners, their pleasant
ancient bindings and their stale smell, are peculiarly reminiscent of similar establishments
in Paris.

That Eugene Field knew these shops well we have reason to know by at
least two of his poems. I know it well!
    And maybe you would like to know--
    But no--I will not tell!

In his verses called "Doctor Sam," Field touched on another fascinating side of Creole negro
life: the mysterious beliefs and rites of voodooism--or, as it is more often spelled, voudouism.

Until a few years ago it used to be possible for a visitor with a "pull" in New Orleans to
see some of the voudou performances and to have "a work made" for him, but the police have
dealt so severely with those who believe in this barbarous nonsense, that it is practised in
these times only with the utmost secrecy.

Voudouism was brought by the early slaves from the Congo, but in Louisiana the negroes--probably
desiring to imitate the religion of their white masters--appropriated some of the Roman Catholic
saints and made them subject to the Great Serpent, or Grand Zombi, who is the voudou god. These
saints, however, are given voudou names, St. Michael, for example, being Blanc Dani, and St.
Peter, Papa Liba. This situation is the antithesis of that to be found in Brittany, where Druidical
beliefs, handed down for generations among the peasants, may now be faintly traced running
like on odd alien threads through the strong fabric of Roman Catholicism.

Voudouism is not, however, to be dignified by the name "religion." It is superstition founded
upon charms and hoodoos. It is witchcraft of the maddest kind, involving the most hideous performances.
Moreover, it is said that a hoodoo is something of which a French negro is very much afraid,
and that his fear is justifiable, for the reason that the throwing of a wanga, or curse, may
also involve the administering of subtle poisons made from herbs.

Legend is rich with stories of Marie Le Veau, the voudou queen, who lived long ago in New Orleans,
and of love and death accomplished by means of voudou charms. Charms are brought about in various
ways. Among these the burning of black candles, accompanied by certain performances, brings
evil upon those against whom a "work" is made, while blue candles have to do with love charms.
It may also be noted that "love powders" can be purchased now-a-days in drug stores in New Orleans.

In the days of long ago the great negro gathering place used to be Congo Square--now Beauregard
Square--and here, on Sunday nights, wild dances used to occur--the "bamboula" and "calinda"--and
sinister spells were cast. Later the voudous went to more secluded spots on the shores of Lake
Pontchartrain, and on St. John's Eve, which is their great occasion, many of the whites of
the city used to go to the lake in hopes of discovering a voudou séance, and being allowed
to see it. A friend of mine, who has seen several of these séances, says that they are unbelievably
weird and horrible. They will make a gombo, put a snake in it, and then devour it, and they
will wring a cat's neck and drink its blood. And of course, along with these loathsome ceremonies,
go incantations, chants, dances, and frenzies, sometimes ending in catalepsis.

There are weird stories of white women of good family who have believed in voudou, and have
taken part in the rites; and there are other tales of evil spells, such as that of the Creole
bride of long ago, whose affianced had been the lover of a quadroon girl, a hairdresser. The
hairdresser when she came to do the bride's hair for the wedding, gave her a bouquet of flowers.
The bride smelled the bouquet--and died at the church door.

It was, I think, in an old book store on Royal Street--or else on Chartres--that I found the
tattered guide book to which I referred in an earlier chapter. It was "edited and compiled
by several leading writers of the New Orleans Press," and published in 1885, and it contains
an introductory recommendation by George W. Cable--which is about the finest guarantee that
a book on New Orleans can have.

Mr. Cable, of course, more than all the rest of the people who have written of New Orleans
put together, placed the city definitely in literature. And it is interesting, if somewhat
saddening, to recall that for lifting the city into the world of belles lettres, for adorning
it and preserving it in such volumes as "Old Creole Days," "The Grandissimes," "Madame Delphine,"
and other valuable, truthful, and charming works, he was roundly abused by his own fellow-townsmen.
Far from attacking Mr. Cable, New Orleans ought to build him a monument, and I am glad to say
that, though the monument is not there yet, the city does seem to have come to its senses,
and that the prophet is no longer without honor in his own country.

Some further leaves are added to the literary laurels of the city by what Thomas Bailey Aldrich
has written of it, and the wreath is made the greater by the fact that in New Orleans was born
"the only literary man in New York," Professor Brander Matthews.

Another distinguished name in letters, connected with the place, is that of Lafcadio Hearn,
who was at one time a reporter on a New Orleans newspaper, and who not only wrote about the
French quarter, but collected many proverbs of the Creoles in a book which he called "Gombo
Zebes." In his little volume, "Chita," Hearn described the land of lakes, bayous, and chênières,
which forms a strip between the city and the Gulf, and which, with its wild birds, wild scenery,
and wild storms, and its extraordinary population of hunters and fishermen--Cajuns, Italians,
Japanese, Spanish, Kanakas, Filipinos, French, and half-breed Indians, all intermarrying--is
the strangest, most outlandish section of this country I have ever visited. The Filipinos,
who introduced shrimp fishing in this region, building villages on stilts, like those of their
own islands, were not there when Hearn wrote "Chita," nor was Ludwig raising diamond-back terrapin
on Grand Isle, but the live-oaks, draped with sad Spanish moss, lined the bayous as they do
to-day, and the alligators, turtles and snakes were there, and the tall marsh grass, so like
bamboo, fringed the banks as it does now, and water hyacinth carpeted the pools, and the savage
tropical storms came sweeping in, now and then, from the Gulf, flooding the entire country,
tearing everything up by the roots, then receding, carrying the floating debris back with them
to the salt sea. One has to see what they call a "slight" storm, in that country, to know what
a great storm there must be. Hearn surely saw storms there, for in "Chita" he describes with
terrifying vividness that historic tempest which, in 1856, obliterated, at one stroke, Last
Island, with its fashionable hotel and all the guests of that hotel. I have seen a "little"
thunderstorm in Barataria Bay and I do not want to see a big one. I have seen brown men who,
in the storm of 1915 (which did a million dollars' worth of damage in New Orleans), floated
about the Baratarias for days, upon the roofs of houses, and I have seen little children, half
Italian, half Filipino, who were saved by being carried by their parents into the branches
of an old live-oak, where they waited until good Horace Harvey, "the little father of the Baratarias,"
came down there in his motor yacht, the Destrehan, rescued them, warmed them, fed them, and
gave them back to life. I was told in New Orleans that there were ten seconds in that storm
when the wind reached a velocity of 140 miles per hour at the mouth of the Mississippi, that
it blew for four hours at the rate of 90 miles, and that the lowest barometrical reading ever
recorded in the United States (28.11) was recorded in New Orleans during this hurricane.

Of the summer climate of New Orleans I know nothing at first hand, and judging from what people
have told me, that is all I want to know. The winter climate suited me very well while I was
there, although the boast that grass is green and roses bloom all the year round, does not
imply such intense heat as some people may suppose. Furthermore, I believe that the thermometer
has once or twice in the history of the city dropped low enough to kill any ordinary rose,
for a friend of mine told me a story about some water pipes that froze and burst during an
unprecedented cold snap which occurred some years ago. He said that an English colonel, whom
he knew, was visiting the city at the time and that, finding himself unable to get water in
his bathtub, he sent out for several cases of Apollinaris, and with true British phlegm proceeded
to empty them into the tub and get in among the bubbles.

Still another figure having to do with literature, and also with the history of New Orleans,
is Jean Lafitte, known as a pirate, whose life is said to have inspired Byron's poem, "The
Corsair." There was a time, long ago, when Lafitte, together with his brother, his doughty
lieutenant, Dominique You, and his rabble of Baratarians, caused New Orleans a great deal of
annoyance, but like many other doubtful characters, they have, since their death, become entirely
picturesque, and the very idea that Lafitte was not a first-class blood-and-thunder pirate
is as distasteful to the people of New Orleans to-day, as his being any kind of a near-pirate
at all, used to be to their ancestors. According to Stockton, Lafitte, when he gave up his
blacksmith shop (in which he is said to have made some of the fine wrought iron balcony railings
which still adorn the old town), and went to Barataria, became nothing more nor less than a
"fence" for pirates and privateers, taking their booty, smuggling it up to New Orleans, and
selling it there on commission.

But if the fact that he was not a gory-handed freebooter is against Lafitte, there is one great
thing in his favor. When the British were making ready to attack New Orleans in 1814, they
tried both to bribe and to browbeat Lafitte into joining forces with them. As the American
government was planning, at this very time, a punitive expedition against him, it would perhaps
have seemed good policy for the pseudo-pirate to have accepted the British offer, but what
Lafitte did was to go up and report the matter at New Orleans, giving the city the first authentic
information of the contemplated attack, and offering to join with his men in the defense, in
exchange for amnesty.

A good many people, however, did not believe his story, and a good many others thought it beneath
the dignity of the government to treat with a man of his dubious occupation. Therefore poor
Lafitte was not listened to, but, upon the contrary, only succeeded in stirring up trouble
for himself, for an expedition was immediately sent against him; his settlement at Barataria--on
the gulf, about forty miles below the city--was demolished and the inhabitants driven to the
woods and swamps.

But in spite of this discouraging experience, Lafitte would not join the British, and it came
about that when the Battle of New Orleans was about to be fought, Andrew Jackson, who had a
short time before referred to Lafitte and his men as a band of "hellish banditti," was glad
to accept their aid. Dominique You--with his fine pirate name--commanded a gun, and the others
fought according to the best piratical tradition. After the battle was won, the Baratarians
were pardoned by President Madison. Incidentally it may be remarked here that the American
line of defense on the plains of Chalmette, below the city, had been indicated some years before
by the French General Moreau, hero of Hohenlinden, as the proper strategic position for safeguarding
New Orleans on the south.

Even after he had been pardoned, Lafitte felt, not without some justice, that he had been ill-used
by the Americans, and because of this he determined to leave the country. He set sail with
a band of his followers for other climes, but what became of them is not known. Some think
their ship went down in a storm which crossed the Gulf soon after their departure; others believe
that they reached Yucatan, and that Lafitte died there. Whatever his fate, he did not improve
it by departing from New Orleans, for had he not done so he would, at the end, have been given
a handsome burial and a nice monument like that of Dominique You--which may be seen to this
day in the old cemetery on Claiborne Avenue, between Iberville and St. Louis Streets.

Having disposed of literary men and pirates, we now come in logical sequence to composers and
actors. Be it known, then, that E.H. Sothern first raised, in the house at 79 Bienville Street,
the voice which has charmed us in the theater, and that Louis Gottschalk, composer of the almost
too well-known "Last Hope," was also born in New Orleans.

The records of the opera and the theater might, in themselves, make a chapter. As early as
1791 a French theatrical company played in New Orleans, using halls, and in 1808 a theater
was built in St. Philip Street. It is said that the first play given in the city in English
was performed December 24, 1817, the play being "The Honey Moon," and the manager Noah M. Ludlow;
but it was not until some years later that the English drama became a feature of the city's
life, with the establishment of a stock company under the management of James H. Caldwell.
Edwin Forrest appeared, in 1824, with Mr. Caldwell's company at the Camp Street Theater, which
he built on leaving the Orleans Theater. The former was, when opened, out in the swamp, and
people had to walk to it from Canal Street on a narrow path of planks. It was the first building
in the city to be lighted by gas.

The annals of the old St. Charles theater, called "old Drury," are rich with history. Practically
all our great players from 1835 until long after the Civil War, appeared in this theater, and
an old prompter's book which, I believe, is still in existence, records, among many other things,
certain details of the appearance there, in 1852, of Junius Brutus Booth, father of Edwin Booth,
and mentions also that Joseph Jefferson (Sr.) then a young man, was reprimanded for being noisy
in his dressing-room.

New Orleans was, I believe, the first American city regularly to support grand opera and to
give it a home. For a great many years before 1859 (in which year the present French Opera
House on Bourbon Street was built) there was a regular annual season of opera at the Orleans
Theater, long since destroyed.

In the days of the city's operatic grandeur great singers used to visit New Orleans before
visiting New York, as witness, for example, the début at the French Opera House of Adelina
Patti. Since the time of the Civil War, however, the city has suffered a decline in this department
of art. Opera seasons have not been regular, and in spite of occasional attempts to revive
the old-time spirit, the ancient Opera House, with its brave columned front, its cracking veneer
of stucco, and its surrounding of little vari-colored one story cafés and shops (which are
themselves like bits of operatic scenery), does not so much suggest to the imagination a home
of modern opera, as a mournful mortuary chapel haunted by the ghosts of old half-forgotten
composers: Herold, Spontini, Mehul, Varney; old conductors, long since gone to dust: Prevost,
John, Calabresi; old arias of Meyerbeer, Auber, and Donizetti; and above all, by the ghosts
of pretty pirouetting ballerinas, and of great singers whose voices have, these many years,
been still.

An old lady who knew Louisiana in the forties and fifties, has left record of the fact that
plantation negroes used to know and sing the French operatic airs, just as the Italian peasants
of to-day know and sing the music of Puccini and Leoncavallo. But if opera no longer reaches
the negro, it cannot be said that it has failed to leave its stamp on the French quarter. From
open windows and doors, from little shops and half-hidden courtyards, from shuttered second
story galleries, there comes floating to the ears of the wayfarer the sound of music. In one
house a piano is being played with dash; in another a child is practising her scales; from
still another comes a soprano voice, the sad whistling of a flute, the tinkle of a guitar,
or the anguished squeal of a tortured violin. Never except in Naples have I heard, on one block,
so many musical instruments independently at work, as in some single blocks of the vieux carré;
and never anywhere have I seen a sign which struck as more expressive of the industries of
a locality, than that one which I saw near the house of Mme. Lalurie, which read: "Odd Jobs
Done, and Music."

The reason for this musical congestion is twofold. Not only is the Creole a great lover of
good light music, but the whole region for blocks about the Opera House is populated by old
musicians from the opera's orchestra, and women, some middle aged, some old, who used to be
in the ballet or the chorus, and who not only keep alive the musical tradition of the district,
but pass it on to the younger generation. Indeed there are almost as many places in the French
quarter where music may be heard, as where stories are told.

In one street may be seen a house where the troubles with the Mafia began. On a corner--the
southeast corner of Royal and St. Peter--is shown the house in which Cable's "'Sieur George"
resided. This house is, I believe, the same one which, when erected, caused people to move
away from its immediate neighborhood, for fear that its height would cause it to fall down.
It is a four story house--the first built in the city. At the southeast corner of Royal and
Hospital Streets stands that "haunted" house of Mme. Lalaurie, who fled the town when indignation
was aroused because of devilish tortures she inflicted on her slaves. This house is now an
Italian tenement, but even in its decay it will be recognized as a mansion which, in its day,
was fit to house such guests as Louis Philippe, Lafayette, and Ney. A guest even more distinguished
than these, was to have been housed in the mansion at the northeast corner of St. Louis and
Chartres Streets, for the Creoles had a plan to rescue Napoleon from St. Helena and bring him
here, and had this house prepared to receive him.

And are we to forget where Andrew Jackson was entertained before and after the Battle of New
Orleans--where General Beauregard, military idol of the Creoles, resided--where Paul Morphy
the "chess king" lived--where General Butler took up his quarters when, in 1862, under the
guns of Farragut's fleet, the city surrendered--? Shall we fail to visit the curious old tenements
and stables surrounding the barnyard which once was the remise of the old Orleans Hotel? Shall
we neglect old Metaire cemetery, with its graves built above ground in the days when drainage
was less perfect? Shall we fail to go to the levee (pronounced "levvy") and see the savage
flood of the muddy Mississippi coursing toward the gulf behind the embankment which alone saves
the city from inundation? Shall we ignore the French Market with its clean stalls piled with
fresh vegetables, sea food, and all manner of comestibles, including filé for the glorious
Creole gombo. Shall we not view the picturesque if sinister old Absinthe House, dating from
1799, with its court and stairway so full of mysterious suggestion, and its misty paregoric-flavored
beverage, containing opalescent dreams? Shall we not go to Sazerac's for a cocktail, or to
Ramos' for one of those delectable gin-fizzes suggesting an Olympian soda-fountain drink? Are
we to ignore all these wonders of the city?

Yes, for it is time to go to luncheon at Antoine's!

CHAPTER LIX

ANTOINE'S AND MARDI GRAS

Antoine's is to me one of the four or five most satisfactory restaurants in the United States,--two
of the others being the Louisiane and Galatoire's. But one has one's slight preferences in
these things; and just as I have a feeling that the cuisine of the Hotel St. Regis in New York
surpasses, just a little bit, that of any other eating place in the city, I have a feeling
about Antoine's in New Orleans. This is not, perhaps, with me, altogether a culinary matter,
for whereas I remember delightful meals at the Louisiane and Galatoire's--meals which, indeed,
could hardly be surpassed--I lived for a week at Antoine's, and felt at home there, and became
peculiarly attached to the quaint, rambling old restaurant, up stairs and down.

Antoine's has never been "fixed up." The café makes one think of such old Parisian restaurants
as the Boeuf à la Mode, or the Tour d'Argent. Far from being a showy place, it is utterly simple
in its decorations and equipment, but if there is in this country a restaurant more French
than Antoine's, I do not know where that restaurant is.

Antoine Alciatore, founder of the establishment, departed nearly forty years ago to the realms
to which great chefs are ultimately taken. Coming from France as a young man he established
himself in a small café opposite the slave market, where he proceeded to cook and let his cooking
speak for him. His dinde à la Talleyrand soon made him famous, and he prospered, moving before
long to the present building. His sons, Jules and Fernand, were sent to Paris to learn at headquarters
the best traditions of the haute cuisine, doing service as apprentices in such establishments
as the Maison d'Or and Brabant's. Jules is now proprietor of Antoine's, while Fernand is master
of the Louisiane.

The two brothers are of somewhat different type. Fernand is, above all, a chef; I have never
seen him outside his own kitchen. His son, Fernand Jr., superintends the front part of the
Louisiane, which he has transformed into a place having the appearance of a New York restaurant.
The young man has made a successful bid for the fashionable patronage of New Orleans, and there
is dancing in the Louisiane in the evening. Jules, upon the other hand, is perhaps more the
director than his brother Fernand--more the suave delightful host, less the man of cap and
apron. Jules loves to give parties--to astonish his guests with a brilliant dinner and with
his unrivaled grace as gérant. That he is able to do these things no one is better aware than
my companion and I, for it was our good fortune to be accepted by Jules as friends and fellow
artists.

Never while my companion and I lived at Antoine's did we escape the feeling that we were not
in the United States, but in some foreign land. To go to his rooms he went upstairs, around
a corner, down a few steps, past a pantry, and a back stairway by which savory smells ascended
from the kitchen, along a latticed gallery overlooking a courtyard like that of some inn in
Segovia, along another gallery running at right angles to the first and overlooking the same
court, including the kitchen door and the laundry, and finally to a chamber with French doors,
a canopied bed, and French windows opening upon a balcony that overlooked the side street.
His room was called "The Creole Yacht," while mine was the "Maison Vert."

I remember a room in that curious little hotel opposite the Café du Dôme, in Paris (the hotel
in which it is said Whistler stayed when he was a student), which almost exactly resembled
my room at Antoine's, even to the dust which was under the bed--until 'Génie got to work with
broom and brush. Moreover, connected with my room there was a bath which actually had a chaufbain
to heat the water: one of those weird French machines resembling the engine of a steam launch,
which pops savagely when you light the gas beneath it, and which, as you are always expecting
it to blow up and destroy you, converts the morning ablutions from a perfunctory duty into
a great adventure.

Then too, there was Marie who has attended to the linge at Antoine's for the last fifty years,
and who helped the gray-haired genial Eugénie to "make proper the rooms." Ever since 'Génie--as
she is called, for short--came from her native Midi, she has been at Antoine's; and like François--the
gentle, kindly, white-mustached old waiter who, when we were there, had just moved up to Antoine's
after thirty-five years' service at the Louisiane--'Génie is always ready with a smile; yes,
even in the rush of Mardi Gras!

Antoine's does not set up to be a regular hotel, and we stopped there because, during the carnival,
all rooms in the large modern hotels across Canal Street were taken. The carnival rush made
room-service at Antoine's a little slow, now and then; sometimes the bell would not be answered
when we rang for breakfast; or again, our morning coffee and croissants would be forty minutes
on the way; sometimes we became a little bit impatient--though we could never bring ourselves
to say so to such amiable servitors. As a result, when we were leaving the city for a little
trip, we determined to stay, on our return, at the Grunewald, a hotel like any one of a hundred
others in the United States--marble lobbies, gold ceilings, rathskellers, cabaret shows, dancing,
and page boys wandering through the corridors and dining-rooms, calling in nasal, sing-song
voices: "Mis-ter Shoss-futt! Mis-ter Ahm-kaplopps! Mis-ter Praggle-fiss! Mis-ter Blahms!"

We did return and go to the Grunewald. But comfortable as we were made there, we had to own
to each other that we missed Antoine's. We missed our curious old rooms. I even missed my chaufbain,
and was bored at the commonplace matutinal performance of turning on hot water without preliminary
experiments in marine engineering. We thought wistfully of 'Génie's patient smile, and of her
daily assurance to us, when we went out, that "when she had made the apartments she would render
the key to the bureau, alors,"--which is to say, leave the key at the office. We yearned for
the café, for good François, for the deliciously flavored oysters cooked on the half-shell
and served on a pan of hot rock-salt which kept them warm; for the cold tomatoes à la Jules
César; for the bisque of crayfish à la Cardinal; for the bouillibasse (which Thackeray admitted
was as good in New Orleans as in Marseilles, and which Otis Skinner says is better); for the
unrivaled gombo à la Créole, and pompano en Papillotte, and pressed duck à la Tour d'Argent,
and orange Brulôt, and the wonderful Café Brulôt Diabolique--that spiced coffee made in a silver
bowl from which emerge the blue flames of burning cognac, and in honor of which the lights
of the café are always temporarily dimmed.

Nor least of all was it that we wished to see again the mother of Jules, who sits back of the
caisse and takes in the money, like many another good French wife and mother--a tiny little
old lady more than ninety-five years old, who came to New Orleans in 1840 as the bride of the
then young Antoine Alciatore.

So we put on our hats and coats when evening came, and went back to Antoine's for dinner, and
as long as we were in New Orleans we kept on going back.

That is not to say, of course, that we did not go also to the Louisiane and Galatoire's, or
that we did not drop in for luncheon, sometimes, at Brasco's, in Gravier Street, or at Kolb's,
a more or less conventional German restaurant in St. Charles Street; or that we failed to go
out to Tranchina's at Spanish Fort, on Lake Pontchartrain, or to the quainter little place
called Noy's where, we learned, Ernest Peixotto had been but a short time before, gathering
material for indigestion and an article in "Scribner's Magazine." But when all is said and
done there remain the three restaurants of the old quarter.

I should like to give some history of Galatoire's as well as of the other two, but when I asked
the patron for the story of his restaurant, he smiled, and with a shrug replied: "But Monsieur,
the story is in the food!"

Do not expect any of these places to present the brilliant appearance of distinguished New
York restaurants. They are comparatively simple, all of them, and are engaged not with soft
carpets and gilt ceilings, but with the art of cookery.

I have been told that some of them have what may be termed "tourist cooking," which is not
their best, but if you know good food, and let them know you know it, and if you visit them
at any time except during the carnival, then you have a right to expect in any one of these
establishments, a superb dinner. For as I once heard my friend Col. Beverly Myles, one of the
city's most distinguished gourmets, remark: "To talk of 'tolerably good food' in a French restaurant
is like talking of 'a tolerably honest man.'"

The carnival of Mardi Gras and the several days preceding, is one of those things about which
I feel as I do concerning Niagara Falls, and gambling houses, and the red light district of
Butte, Montana, and the underground levels of a mine, and the world as seen from an aëroplane,
and the Quatres Arts ball, and a bull fight--I am glad to have seen it once, but I have no
desire to see it again. During the carnival my companion and I enjoyed a period of sleepless
gaiety. To be sure, we went to bed every morning, but what is the use in doing that if you
also get up every morning? We went to the street pageants, we went to the balls at the French
Opera House, we saw the masking on the streets, and when the carnival was finished we were
finished, too.

The great thing about the carnival, it seems to me, is that it bears the relation to the life
of the city, that a well-developed hobby does to the life of an individual. It keeps the city
young. It keeps it from becoming pompous, from taking itself too seriously, from getting into
a rut. It stimulates not alone the young, but the grave and reverend seigniors also, to give
themselves up for a little while each year to play, and moreover to use their imaginations
in annually devising new pageants and costumes. From this point of view such a carnival would
be a good thing for any city.

But that is where the Latin spirit of New Orleans comes in, with its pleasing combination of
gaiety and restraint. You could not hold such a carnival in every city. You could not do it
in New York. For more important even than the pageants and the balls, is the carnival frame
of mind. To hold a carnival such as New Orleans holds, a city must know how to be lively and
playful without becoming drunk, without breaking barroom mirrors, upsetting tables, annoying
women, thrusting "ticklers" into people's faces, jostling, fighting, committing the thousand
rough vulgar excesses in which New York indulges every New Year's Eve, and in which it would
indulge to an even more disgusting extent under the additional license of the mask.

