The Nicaragua Canal Commission, under the chairmanship of Rear-Admiral John G. Walker, appointed
July 24, 1897, under the authority of a provision in the sundry civil act of June 4 of that
year, has nearly completed its labors, and the results of its exhaustive inquiry into the proper
route, the feasibility, and the cost of construction of an interoceanic canal by a Nicaraguan
route will be laid before you. In the performance of its task the commission received all possible
courtesy and assistance from the Governments of Nicaragua and Costa Rica, which thus testified
their appreciation of the importance of giving a speedy and practical outcome to the great
project that has for so many years engrossed the attention of the respective countries.

As the scope of the recent inquiry embraced the whole subject, with the aim of making plans
and surveys for a canal by the most convenient route, it necessarily included a review of the
results of previous surveys and plans, and in particular those adopted by the Maritime Canal
Company under its existing concessions from Nicaragua and Costa Rica, so that to this extent
those grants necessarily hold as essential a part in the deliberations and conclusions of the
Canal Commission as they have held and must needs hold in the discussion of the matter by the
Congress. Under these circumstances and in view of overtures made to the Governments of Nicaragua
and Costa Rica by other parties for a new canal concession predicated on the assumed approaching
lapse of the contracts of the Maritime Canal Company with those States, I have not hesitated
to express my conviction that considerations of expediency and international policy as between
the several governments interested in the construction and control of an interoceanic canal
by this route require the maintenance of the status quo until the Canal Commission shall have
reported and the United States Congress shall have had the opportunity to pass finally upon
the whole matter during the present session, without prejudice by reason of any change in the
existing conditions.

Nevertheless, it appears that the Government of Nicaragua, as one of its last sovereign acts
before merging its powers in those of the newly formed United States of Central America, has
granted an optional concession to another association, to become effective on the expiration
of the present grant. It does not appear what surveys have been made or what route is proposed
under this contingent grant, so that an examination of the feasibility of its plans is necessarily
not embraced in the report of the Canal Commission. All these circumstances suggest the urgency
of some definite action by the Congress at this session if the labors of the past are to be
utilized and the linking of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans by a practical waterway is to be
realized. That the construction of such a maritime highway is now more than ever indispensable
to that intimate and ready intercommunication between our eastern and western seaboards demanded
by the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands and the prospective expansion of our influence and
commerce in the Pacific, and that our national policy now more imperatively than ever calls
for its control by this Government, are propositions which I doubt not the Congress will duly
appreciate and wisely act upon. 

(Short, blunt mark discharge from providing the cross-bows.) 37.

What is a Saracen? (We ride through their ranks as we would ride through maize.) 38. (Here the means
merely a Mohammedan hostile to the Christians.) What does "rode like
corn" mean

? The term therein fixed for effecting
the exchange of ratifications having elapsed, the convention falls unless the time be extended
by amendment, which I am endeavoring to bring about, with the friendly concurrence of the Chilean
Government.

The United States has not been an indifferent spectator of the extraordinary events transpiring
in the Chinese Empire, whereby portions of its maritime provinces are passing under the control
of various European powers; but the prospect that the vast commerce which the energy of our
citizens and the necessity of our staple productions for Chinese uses has built up in those
regions may not be prejudiced through any exclusive treatment by the new occupants has obviated
the need of our country becoming an actor in the scene. Our position among nations, having
a large Pacific coast and a constantly expanding direct trade with the farther Orient, gives
us the equitable claim to consideration and friendly treatment in this regard, and it will
be my aim to subserve our large interests in that quarter by all means appropriate to the constant
policy of our Government. The territories of Kiao-chow, of Wei-hai-wei, and of Port Arthur
and Talienwan, leased to Germany, Great Britain, and Russia, respectively, for terms of years,
will, it is announced, be open to international commerce during such alien occupation; and
if no discriminating treatment of American citizens and their trade be found to exist or be
hereafter developed, the desire of this Government would appear to be realized.

In this relation, as showing the volume and value of our exchanges with China and the peculiarly
favorable conditions which exist for their expansion in the normal course of trade, I refer
to the communication addressed to the Speaker of the House of Representatives by the Secretary
of the Treasury on the 14th of last June, with its accompanying letter of the Secretary of
State, recommending an appropriation for a commission to study the commercial and industrial
conditions in the Chinese Empire and report as to the opportunities for and obstacles to the
enlargement of markets in China for the raw products and manufactures of the United States.
Action was not taken thereon during the late session. I cordially urge that the recommendation
receive at your hands the consideration which its importance and timeliness merit.

Meanwhile there may be just ground for disquietude in view of the unrest and revival of the
old sentiment of opposition and prejudice to alien people which pervades certain of the Chinese
provinces. As in the case of the attacks upon our citizens in Szechuen and at Kutien in 1895,
the United States minister has been instructed to secure the fullest measure of protection,
both local and imperial, for any menaced American interests, and to demand, in case of lawless
injury to person or property, instant reparation appropriate to the case. War ships have been
stationed at Tientsin for more ready observation of the disorders which have invaded even the
Chinese capital, so as to be in a position to act should need arise, while a guard of marines
has been sent to Peking to afford the minister the same measure of authoritative protection
as the representatives of other nations have been constrained to employ.

