The teacher in Yuan Ki's room was a six-footer, a college graduate, and an athlete. Yuan Ki
was much impressed. He secretly admired him, but was ungraciously curt to him. This was Yuan
Ki's way of making the teacher "keep his distance." But the teacher seemed not to notice it.
He was always kind to Yuan Ki, even as he was to the others.

One morning at chapel teacher talked about his God. Yuan Ki sneered at what he told. Actually,
teacher had said that his God had come down to earth and had given up His life on a cross,
as a sin-offering for all people, even His own enemies. Yuan Ki wrote his father about this
"ridiculous story."

One day Yuan Ki was taken sick with a high fever and placed in the school hospital. That night
as he turned his feverish head from side to side on the pillow, he felt a cool hand laid on
his brow. It was the teacher. Yuan Ki turned his face away, affecting not to see him. The second
night, he kept the boy's feverish brow cooled with iced cloths until the fever subsided. Yuan
Ki was distressed at the situation, but all the more determined to ignore the teacher's kindness.

At noon recess one day the boys were playing on the sloping grounds between the school building
and the river. It was strictly against the rules for the boys to go past a certain low wall,
toward the water. But Yuan Ki and Wang To, seeing the teacher sitting near one of the windows
and knowing how it would disturb him, ran over the wall and jumped on to the deck of a house-boat
moored near by. Yuan Ki saw the teacher look up in alarm and start as if to jump from the window,
which was ten feet from the ground. Yuan Ki ran to the outer end of the house-boat, intending
to jump to the deck of another house-boat alongside, but in doing so, slipped and fell into
the swift current. The boy could not swim, and after a brief struggle he sank and knew no more.

It was two days later that Yuan Ki came to consciousness. He was puzzled quite a little until
he figured out that he was in the hospital bed again, and it was in the early dawn of the morning.
There seemed to be nobody else in the room. Yuan Ki could see through the open door, across
the hallway, into the large reception room opposite. There was a long, strange-shaped, box-like
thing, with some candles burning near by. Curiosity getting the better of him, Yuan Ki got
up and crept across the hall. Coming close to the casket, he looked through the glass cover--and
there lay the teacher.

Just then a hand was laid on Yuan Ki's shoulder, and the nurse hustled him back to bed, scolding
him for his imprudence. "But," said Yuan Ki, "the teacher--how did he die?"

"Lie still," said the nurse, "and I will tell you. When you fell into the water, teacher jumped
from that high window to the ground. It seemed to sprain his ankle, or something, for he limped
badly as he made his way to the water. He reached you just as you went down the last time,
and bore you up. A man ran out on the deck with a boat-hook and reached for you both. He caught
your sleeve and hauled you in, but the current carried teacher out of reach, and then we saw
him sink. He was an expert swimmer, but the sprain must have caused him to lose consciousness."

Yuan Ki's next letter to his father read in part like this: "My father, my heart is broken,
for I shall not see your face again. I know that what I shall tell you means that your hopes
for me will be crushed and that you will disinherit me; but, oh, my father, I have learned
now what is the love of Christ. I have resolved to train to go to my countrymen and tell them
of this wonderful God, the like of whom there is none other."

Jesus gave all of Himself for us. We cannot give less than all of ourselves for Him.

     Read Mark 15:16-47.

XXI

READY!

Say, fellows, once in my life--and only once--I had a chance to shoot a deer. It was in the
Tennessee mountains. A party of us boys travelled over a rough mountain road all of two days
before reaching the hunting grounds. About daylight of the third day each one of us was given
a "stand," that is, stationed at a point where the game would likely pass when started by the
hounds. The seasoned old guide cautioned us to keep still and watch. "One thing sartin," said
he, "deer is in thar, an' when they comes out they comes this a-way."

I had never been deer hunting before. I have never been since. It was my one opportunity, and
as the party left me, to distribute themselves at other points of vantage along the "run,"
I took up my stand under considerable excitement. In an hour I heard the dogs far in the distance.
They were evidently running. That meant the game was running, too,--how many and in what direction
I could only guess.

Every nerve and muscle was tense with expectation. The music of the hounds grew fainter. "Evidently
circling again," I mused. I was getting to be quite a huntsman, and chuckled at how David Crocketty
my observations were.

Another hour I waited. A squirrel came out on a limb, and with its antics and barking helped
me pass the time. A while I watched it, now and then dropping my eyes to a level for the expected
deer. Suddenly, as I dropped my eyes, the most thrilling sight confronted them. They nearly
popped out--my eyes. There, within fifty feet of me, stood a magnificent buck.

I shall never forget the picture. His beautiful, keen limbs slightly quivering, his sleek sides
glistening in the slanting rays of the sun as they throbbed in and out with his rapid panting.
His head held high, the antlers looked like a picture.

All this had happened in less than five seconds. I only had to veer my gun two inches. My hand
was on the trigger, and with a perfect "bead" on his left shoulder--right where the old guide
had said the night before was the spot to aim for.

Snap! left barrel.

Snap! right barrel.

Off like the wind, Mr. Buck!

Fellows, I have never been sicker than I was at that moment, but once. My sickest was in the
next moment, when I unbreached my gun and found there was no shell in either barrel!

Foolish?

You can call it any name you please and I won't defend it. Think of me at the camp-fire that
night, fellows.

Foolish? Yes, I suppose that is the right word. It is a much stronger word, though, than we
realize. Jesus used it in this parable of the ten virgins who went out to meet the bridegroom.
But He used it to describe a real tragedy, the greatest tragedy of life; the tragedy of being
unprepared at His coming.

And when is He coming, fellows? Nobody knows. He has not even told the angels that secret.
We don't have to know it. We only have to be ready.

And how to be ready? Simple as A B C, fellows. Just be busy, doing God's will--or making an
honest effort to do it, and asking Him to help. Anybody can be ready to meet Him when He comes,
if he wants to and will try. Just be doing your work and playing your play, as He would have
you do it.

But, fellows, it is a big risk to "put off" getting ready. Do it now while you are young, with
all life before you, by saying: "Lord Jesus, here is my life. Use it in just whatever way you
choose. Plan it for me and help me carry out the plan." That is the way to bag the Big Game.
Some of life's greatest opportunities come but once, and then by surprise. The happiest and
most successful life is the God-planned life, and a God-planned life never misses the Big Opportunity,
because it is ready--always ready. Ready for life, however long or short it may be; ready for
death whenever that must be; ready for the Coming of the Lord Himself, which may be any moment,
in the twinkling of an eye.

Are you ready, fellows?

     Read Matthew 25:1-13.

XXII

REMEMBERING

Say, fellows, all through the United States some years ago there sounded a slogan. It was a
slogan of hate,--a slogan of revenge. It was the rallying cry of the Navy, it was shouted by
the Army. Newspapers carried it daily on the front page, alongside their titles; business houses
had it printed on their stationery; it was engraved upon souvenirs; it hung as a motto upon
the walls at many public gatherings, and it became a household word throughout the nation:
"Remember the Maine!"

Remember--remember--never forget. And the purpose in remembering was Retaliation. One night
while the United States battleship Maine lay peacefully at anchor in the harbour of Havana,
an explosion tore a great hole in her hull and she quickly sank, carrying down many officers
and men to sudden death.

There was hardly any doubt that Spanish officers had from the shore treacherously exploded
a mine underneath the battleship, and later investigations seemed to confirm this theory. Immediately
the United States, an outraged nation, arose to drive the Spanish army from Cuba and her navy
from American waters, and the spirit of revenge was kept alive by the slogan, "Remember the Maine!"

Now, fellows, those are just the cold facts to show how powerfully can be used the word, Remember--how
powerfully to kill and to destroy; how powerfully to nourish the harsh and cruel side of our
natures. Not that it was wrong for America to lift the Spanish yoke from helpless Cuba, we
are not dealing with that question. That with which we have to do to-day is the energy and
force developed by remembering. Like dynamite, it can be force for good or for evil. Remembering
the taunts and cruelties of our enemies usually carries us into a cruel and destructive program.

I am so glad this lesson presents to us the good side of that really great word Remember, for
to-day it is Remember Jesus. When you link that Name with a word it transforms it; link that
Name with a life and it transforms it. Jesus Himself gave us the slogan. He was so intent upon
our keeping it in mind that He instituted a feast by which we might commemorate it.

Even the food of that supper had a significance: Bread, to represent His own body nailed upon
the cross for us, and wine to represent His blood which flowed for us. I think, fellows, if
you should give your life to save another, you would not like that one to forget all about
it, would you?

But Jesus had more than that in mind. He knew that "remembering" would mean much to you who
are trying to live a straight-out Christian life. Celebrating at stated times by this Remembrance
Supper would help you to remember Him also between times. It is in these between times we so
much need the power which comes by Remembering Jesus.

Am I downhearted because I have been mistreated? Remember Jesus. He was most mistreated of
all men. Am I feeling that I'd like to "get even" with somebody and redress a wrong? Remember
Jesus. He did not strike back, but laid down His life for His enemies. Am I feeling that I
cannot hold out in this Christian program? Remember Jesus. He is right by my side and will
help me hold out. Do people seem to misunderstand me? Remember Jesus. He understands, and that
is sufficient. Does it look as if I am about to make a failure? Remember Jesus, through whom
we are more than conquerors.

I tell you, fellows, it is the biggest and finest Remember of all, because it makes us strong,
it makes us happy, it enables us to overcome, it makes us invincible!

Remember Jesus.

     Read 1 Corinthians 11:23-34.

XXIII

GETTING EVEN

Say, fellows! I saw a big touring car sideswipe a Ford runabout and knock it several feet to
one side on the country road. Of course each of the drivers thought the other was to blame,
and a warm argument followed.

The big car was unhurt, and proceeded on its way, but the flivver had its running board and
fender badly battered. While the young fellow of the runabout examined to see what further
damage his car might have sustained, the prosperous-looking gentleman was speeding up the highway,
chuckling over his own car's escape from injury.

I asked the man of the Ford if his engine had suffered. No, he thought it was all right; he
would crank up and see. Good! She started off with a clutter, and he asked me if I wanted to
ride. I had not far to go, but gladly accepted, for I was rather struck with this young fellow's
grip on himself. It took self-control to avoid making the air blue with abuse. The way that
big fellow had hurried on, leaving the runabout in trouble, was certainly not on the square,
to say the least.

A turn in the road brought a fresh surprise. There was the touring car, a hundred yards ahead,
standing in the middle of the road, hood up, and the big man peering into the engine. There
was room to pass, and I wondered what the man at the wheel in the runabout would do. Would
the little car rattle past with its damaged fender? It would be only human nature to sing out
some sort of a taunt: "Thought you were in a hurry!" or "Don't block the road!"--and yet this
young fellow did not seem to be that kind. His self-control during the incident back there
in the road made me expect something different, and I was not disappointed. The runabout did
pass, but stopped ten yards ahead, and my companion got out.

"Engine trouble? Need any help?"

The big fellow's face was a puzzle, as he looked up with a worried grin and mopped his brow
with a grease-smeared hand. Yes, there was engine trouble, and it was serious.

To make a long story short, when last I saw them as they turned the curve of the road ahead,
the big car's front axle was connected by a chain to the rear of the runabout as it chugged
away in low gear dragging the big one to the nearest garage.

Say, fellows! it takes a dead game sport to do a trick like that. Any cheap skate can whiz
past and give his enemy in trouble the hard-boiled eye, but it takes a fine soul to be generous
when the natural impulse calls for spite work.

In the small hours of that fine morning, as Saul slept and as his guards were heavy with sleep
about him, David put one over on his pursuer--an act of kindness which overwhelmed him with
shame. David had not only to fight a natural impulse to get even, but he had with him an adviser
who used the most persuasive arguments to induce him to take Saul's life. Indeed, Abishai proposed
to do the deed himself, as though that would leave David clear of guilt in the matter. But
no, David was a man of principle, and he knew three very vital things:

1. "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," said the Lord.

2. A magnanimous spirit wins, and no sad regrets cloud the victory.

3. He that ruleth his own spirit is better than he that taketh a city.

     Read twenty-sixth chapter of 1 Samuel and Romans 12:20-21.

XXIV

GREATNESS

Say, fellows, if I should make up an unusually good story about you, some noble thing you did,
or some kind and generous act, to whom should I tell it, to be sure it would be believed? Yes,
I see you know of whom I am thinking--your mother. I might tell your brother and sister, and
they would say: "Phew! are you sure it was Dick?" I might tell your employer, and his eyes
would roam around over the objects on his desk; or your teacher, and he would look at the sky
and say: "Think it will rain?" I might tell your father, and he would be grateful--but surprised!
But let me tell your mother! There I would find one who is ready to believe anything good I
would say about you.

