"Not at all, everything is working perfectly. The substance is now so dense that it is becoming
opaque to rays of the fourth order, so that we are now partially displacing the medium instead
of moving through it without friction. At the point where we can barely see to work; that is,
when the fourth-order rays will be so retarded that they can no longer carry the heterodyned
light waves without complete distortion, we shall stop automatically, as the material at that
depth will have the required density to refract the fifth-order rays to the correct degree."

"How can our foundations stand it?" asked Seaton. "This stuff must be a hundred times as dense
as platinum already, and we must he pushing a horrible load in going through it."

"We are exerting no force whatever upon our foundations nor upon Norlamin. The force is transmitted
without loss from the power-plant in our laboratory to this secondary projector here inside
the star, where it is liberated in the correct band to pull us through the mass, using all
the mass ahead of us as anchorage. When we wish to return, we shall simply change the pull
into a push. Ah! we are now at a standstill--now comes the most important moment of the entire
project!"

All apparent motion had ceased, and Seaton could see only dimly the outlines of the faidon,
now directly before his eyes. The structure of force slowly warped around until its front portion
held the faidon as in a vise. Rovol pressed a lever and behind them, in the laboratory, four
enormous plunger switches drove home. A plane of pure energy, flaming radiantly even in the
indescribable incandescence of the core of that seething star, bisected the faidon neatly,
and ten gigantic beams, five upon each half of the jewel, rapidly molded two sections of a
geometrically-perfect hollow lens. The two sections were then brought together by the closing
of the jaws of the mighty vise, their edges in exact alignment. Instantly the plane and the
beams of energy became transformed into two terrific opposing tubes of force--vibrant, glowing
tubes, whose edges in contact coincided with the almost invisible seam between the two halves
of the lens.

Like a welding arc raised to the nth power these two immeasurable and irresistible forces met
exactly in opposition--a meeting of such incredible violence that seismic disturbances occurred
throughout the entire mass of that dense, violet-white star. Sunspots of unprecedented size
appeared, prominences erupted to hundreds of times their normal distances, and although the
two scientists deep in the core of the tormented star were unaware of what was happening upon
its surface, convulsion after Titanic convulsion wracked the mighty globe, and enormous masses
of molten and gaseous material were riven from it and hurled far out into space--masses which
would in time become planets of that youthful and turbulent luminary.

Seaton felt his air-supply grow hot. Suddenly it became icy cold, and knowing that Rovol had
energized the refrigerator system, Seaton turned away from the fascinating welding operation
for a quick look around the laboratory. As he did so, he realized Rovol's vast knowledge and
understood the reason for the new system of relief-points and ground-rods, as well as the necessity
for the all-embracing scheme of refrigeration.

