Transcriber's note

On page 156 are macrons for the letters "o" and "e"; these are represented by [=o] and [=e]
respectively. Printer errors have been changed and are listed at the end. The author's spelling
has been maintained. So I shall do so now. Ni itself boasted more when Cornelia taught
his Gracchi. But Dona Ines went beyond Cornelia: not content to look at their children, but
is proposed to compete with them and even surpass them in costume, and decided Juanita also the
view.

Juanita was given to all with the best disposition and prodigious
success and made corsets Dona Ines and various costumes.

Confidence born here and some familiarity, as far as is lawful and decent that familiarity is brought
from a leading lady and a commoner working, but at last, Dona Ines
Juanita had to show their underwear to try on corsets and dresses,
what much confidence born and grow?

Juanita knew then slowly and counted her steps, take such skill that Dona Ines he had already
committed his body to clothe him, and also began to discover trust spirit, but only to a point,
because the spirit of Dona Ines, he thought Juanita, perhaps with
malice more than enough, had more shells than a tortoise and never
undressed and completely discovered.

Juanita had a melodious voice and clear and could read very well,
which is quite rare, giving to what I read intonation and meaning.

Soon he managed to show that she possessed Dona Ines ability so helpful, and soon Dona Ines,
who is tired reading something in to take Juanita reader.

Course, Dona Ines, who was very highly mystical in thought and as
much as ascetic, even more speculative than practical, made him read
Juanita lives of saints and devotees and moral books as Mount Calvary,
Thank grace Shouts Hell, mirror of religious, rare cases of vices
and virtues and Ravages of lust.

Dona Ines was aficionadísima to lecture and to convince his listeners
and opponents when lecturing.

If something is hurt by being born a woman, was not to become a preacher or professor.

Juanita knew with both pulse to humor, who would not shut up and accepted everything from of course,
but something challenging theses and speeches to give more opportunity to speak and deployed
his eloquence, which he gave in, recognizing up. Thus be glad and exalt the spirit of Doña Inés,
corroborating the belief she had in virtue and persuasive in his knowledge and talent, into
thinking, well, that following her although at very reasonable distance,
there was no Villalegre all, except perhaps the father Anselmo most
talented person and wiser than Juanita.

The favor of the Dona Ines came to an end to its height.

In the presence of any person, Juanita remained in care with the utmost
respect and giving treatment of his mercy, but in times of expansion,
once heard Juanita atentísimamente, challenge the reasons and ended
up yielding to them, Dona Ines, excited, acquiesced to the send end
when the two soloists were the tutease.

These prodigious achievements of the patient and clear girl lent confidence
course itself, and could give great honor, if she understood that
he needed, but only gave useful material, which was what was most
in need.

Dona Ines thought that there was no better or more splendid pay their affection. Assumed that
the elevation Juanita's Soul, which had been reviling offer money.

A penny more than Dona Ines had given him the wages he usually won, would have seemed a pittance.
It was not Juanita sensitive help like a beggar.

And after this reasoning as wise, as Dona Ines Juanita did not pay
but the stitching, and without paying him not to humiliate, not the
hours spent reading books or the time lost listening to his lectures,
was Dona Ines, by the grace of look what it was, was reading and auditorium
and companion bucket. THE LEOPARD'S HABITS                                         176
        The Panther: Popular Name For Large Leopard              180
        How the Leopard Seizes his Prey                          181
        The Leopard's One Amiable Quality--He Loves Perfumes     182
        The Leopard and the Lavender                             183

    XV. AMERICAN LEOPARD: THE JAGUAR                                 188

   XVI. 

The girls who used to fetch water at the source of the ejido, and drovers, shepherds and swineherds
who came to get water to livestock, considering that since Juanita stopped going there was Mrs.
tone, and neither dared not say hello.

Overnight, or until the fires ended, which was already close to a mother and daughter remained in
the plaza, and would have been no other companion Don Paco, if Mr.
Spencer, school teacher, had not joined them too.

Mr. Spencer was a bachelor of over sixty years, frail, thin and small body but smart and sweet
character.

Since I was six years old Juanita Don Pascual, captivated by its clearance
and its resiliency, was pains to teach him to read and write, some
bills and other basic skills.

Juanita had been a schoolteacher in a constant fan and useful, because
it was for her, in the absence of governess, ayo free and zealous.

She, however, was much honor to his master, then taking their lessons in leisure hours and
when the school was empty of kids, came out as advantageous disciple,
who embarrassed almost everyone who attended school.

No one knew better than she does the Catechism of Ripalda and the Epitome of grammar. Nobody
knew four rules better.

Juanita had also learned some geography and history, and now, when
he was nine years, gracefully recited several ancient romances and
not a few tales of Samaniego.

Time was that Mr. Spencer did not visit or his mother Juanita.

First, the frequent visits he had been frightened Antonuelo.

Then he retreated over go home with the two Johns to know that both Don Paco frequented. Perhaps
accounted approval of the master and Don Paco Antonuelo sufficient
in that house, and if he would be of odd and would be a hindrance.

That night passed by chance near Juanita Don Pasquale, and this is addressed him saying:

- Good evening, master. What have we done to you, how expensive is
sold and we have so forgotten?

There were so many friendly blandishments of the girl, the concern that he could nuisance is being
completely erased Magin and accompanied the two women throughout the evening, being the fourth
character of the group.

And walked four, and sat on stone benches in the square.

Always were or were in between the two women, and alternate back and forth, both suitors.

They wanted to present him with sweets, but neither consented waste
size.

For Don Paco did not take a snub, he left Jane to buy him a handful
of peanuts and popcorn, which he began in his pocket and he was eating.

Juanita, who liked the chestnuts, as Virgil Amarilis, agreed to buy him an Easter gift quadroon of
pilongas, also went without a finicky eating.

To Don Pascual needed was one she gave with finesse, because as Mr. Spencer did not teeth could
not chew or chew and had an hour and half in the mouth, trying in vain to soften it, and remembering
that no doubt why, as well as their cheapness, are called chestnuts candy pilongas cadet. Pleasantly
spent, then, the evening, and were among the most enjoyed it, sparing the fires with which the evening
ended, and they were splendid.

The leading men, and about one o'clock, both accompanied John to the
door of his house.

Each owl to their olive trees, as they say. Everybody in the place went to bed and tried sleeping
deeply and quickly, so be ready and well perceive, very early for the great parties that there
should be the next day.

XV

Since the dawn began to be solemnized on August 4 ringing so loud in general bells.

Crowd of people, both the villa and not a few places around, roads are public came to the square
where the fair was like the night before, or in crowded the road where the procession had to
go, leaving the church of Santo Domingo, was the parish, and re-enter it after giving gentle
stroll through the streets main. These had been well swept and then carpeted and gayomba sedge.
Waiting see the procession were many people in the doors, windows and balconies, earrings
of gates and railings which looked gorgeous red damask hangings, green and yellow or printed
cotton quilt with huge datura and candid curly fringed ruffled.

The gala was the entire population. Men, clean shaven, as were open yesterday the barber and
shave shaving until well given the twelve. The most important and wealthy gentlemen, those who
received the treatment of gift, were in a frock coat and beaver,
even with two or three fractions, the scribe among them.

Day laborers clean shirt in their best clothes, if they were young people were in body, but
with snitch or long rod of quince, olive, ash, and if they were and adults, with coat to the appropriate
decorum, because there the layer suit label, which can not be ignored,
although they swelter or melt the human lineage as was then the case
because the sun was Chiribitos.

Women of all social classes had taken their rags of Christians to adorn that day. None was bareheaded.
All, they had no blanket, wearing shawls lightweight wool or tissues
they called there seáticos, or calico lustrosísimo that imitation
silk.

The wealthy ladies, and Draft, wore black suits and dark taffeta, Malaga twill or Alepin or
cubic, and the Misses, her daughters were in costumes muslin or other fabric and steamy air,
but without any head covering, sometimes embroidered tulle Catalan blonde prays or Manchego.
About pulidez and grooming of hair, and as bush walk upright tower shone alongside the tortoiseshell
combs, the ribbons of jasmine, the basil and other herbs, and roses and red carnations, yellow,
white and disciplined.

Flowers abounded in Villalegre, thanks to the power of the commons, whose miraculous properties
and we praise and thanks also to other flowing springs, which flow
from rocks immediate foot of the mountain, and several wells and not
a few wells of fresh water, with which watered gardens, planters and
flowerbeds.

From between the bars of the gate was in the best houses were the flowery patios, some of which
the orange trees and acacias lend welcome shade. Plants vines climbed the walls and curtains
were thick on the ground floor windows.

In the center of the courtyard, or cooling the air in a fountain falling burnished red cup jasper,
or Great Pyramid rose pots, forming compact mass of flowers and vegetables.

Dragonflies and butterflies fluttering around restless, and wasps
and bees buzzed looking for honey.

The territory or termination of Villalegre bordering the countryside, where all lands are bread
carry or uncultivated wasteland without gardens, and groves, and vineyards. If something turns
green for those it's just melon fields in the hollows. Everything else is in that season straw
already sown and fallow, and stubble, which burn like tinder and are usually burned for fertilize
the soil. The plants that soar around and give more shade are the pitas. Are more woody and
arborescent thistles and sunflowers. So in households cooked with some animal product, that
not only heat, but perfume, saving on air one or two miles away, so that people can smell long
before to them, and even descry on the horizon their steeples.

Sparrows, goldfinches, swallows and a hundred other species of birds
painted and cheerful go to the countryside at dawn to catch seeds,
grasshoppers and other insects that feed; but all nesting Villalegre
term, and return to him after his excursions to take shelter in their
preserves and dark, drinking in their crystal streams and ditches,
and to rejoice that oasis with chirps, trills and gurgles.

That day was extremely hot, or had not left the birds to roam or had become early, and trilling
and chirping, while cooing doves and pigeons, were saved and music
the patron saint and around and within the same village.

For more adornment and splendor had been erected in her six triumphal arches and lush green foliage.

The
procession left in good order of the church at eight o'clock in the morning. Broke the up the
sacristan and altar boys, who carried the banner, the breadth of the parish and two silver crosses,
on either side of the sleeve. After a lot of wax, that is, many men with candles walked on two
hollow.

Here and there appeared, conducted in litter, up to six images of saints, all multicolored, mud
or wood. The fifth image was that of Santo Domingo. His face, severe and beautiful. On his forehead
shone a star inspired silver-gilt. With his right hand threw the holy blessings. At his feet
was a dog, very well featured, carrying a torch between your teeth,
apparently on, with which, according to the dream of St. Joan of handles,
burned and illustrated the world in love and in knowledge of God.

Then walked the two rows of men with candles burning, and Finally came a beautiful statue of
the Virgin, who was on the horns of the moon, which moon was silver, as well as the crown bearing
the Heavenly Blessed Lady.

It was his blue satin robe, yet he also silver embroidery, which had cost fortune. Virgin had the
left arm, leaning against the heart, a beautiful child Jesus with
the globe, who bore the cross on top.

In his right hand he the scapular of Our Lady of Mount Caramel.

Iban front of the Virgin, with vestments and incense burners, two deacons, who call there jumeones.

In
the middle of the jumeones towered the brother of the guild, with blue silk robe on the coat,
and holding long silver pole. The older brother was none other than Dona Ines's husband and
son of Don Paco, the illustrious Don Alvaro Roldan, one of whose ancestors had paid the image
of the Virgin and St. Dominic, both works Montanes, as it boasted the Villalegre natural.

In pursuit of the Virgin, dressed in rich copes, Anselmo father appeared,
and around it several chaplains, and Indians as outsiders, with rochets
and surplices, loose some of them, and six other Argentine holding
the poles of the magnificent canopy, under which waddled with due
solemnity the aforementioned pastor.

Individuals immediately marched from City Hall with the mayor at the head, which Bengal had been
cuffed and gold tassels.

Secretary, Don Paco, was next to the mayor, with his new frock coat, elegant, and exciting the
envy of other gentlemen whose Levites or fraques were old, outdated, and some quite bare, and
if not with patches and tears, with moth bites, darn sloppy and as such lamps or marinade or
oil stain, no less conspicuous than those noted and condemned the Cid in the habit of the monk Don Bermudo.

The cacique, don Andrés Rubio, shining on the procession by their absence.

Clothed with a bunch of guys, then showed the strongest man in the
place, with Flag of the saint, whose pole was very long.

The flag was made of square pieces Taffeta diverse and vivid colors. And it was the gala that
giants, when he had to this space a lot, because the cloth of the flag had at least four yards square,
flag flutter rotating around parallel to the ground so that the bending boys and even some men
and women were sheltered and blessed by it. This operation fluttering and the shelter was
always accompanied by a precipitate drum roll played for a drummer to some extent church and
consecrated to that need.

No no troops closed the procession really, because the people, have become extinct the militia,
there were no soldiers. There were only two civil guards. However, instead of tragalentejas,
who used to come in the old in a nearby city, the musicians were
City almost always playing and still wearing the uniform of the defunct
military.

Not content with this and considering the place and knowing, more or less confusedly, that patron
saint of the warrior had something, they wanted that was more military pomp, and had the marvelous
idea.

A Roman soldiers out there in the processions Easter put them in the chest crosses and turned
crimson velvet of pursuers Christ's persecutors of heretics of the saint that friends had gotten
into sewing. The Roman soldiers were dressed with great authority, because the town had a saint
born there, which belonged to the holy Theban Legion, and as in the
company of one of its taps, found in the catacombs of Rome came his
image, the suit he wore served as model to those of the Roman soldiers.

As

for the dress of the Jews was so fantastic, it could be worth for
any time but had the disadvantage of being so rich and exquisite,
that only wealthy gentlemen so the people could afford, so they had
few Jews, much less that Roman soldiers; but that did not were subject
at all, but occasionally became entangled in trancazos with the Crusaders,
putting together a very funny mock skirmishes or fights, with which
the people laughed and was like the comic farce or part of the procession.

We

note that these Jewish heretics, so elegant in dress, spent some appalling covers, with huge
noses, sometimes as eggplant bruised and full of warts, because Jews of ancient times were more
ugly than today, but then had the sea of ​​money, when they dressed in such luxury.

The devout crowd did not see the procession pass in reverent silence and withered, but with joy and
clamor, bursting into nourished and live sound, including propositions are sometimes heard
naively unorthodox and even a little enthusiastic pure blasphemous, for example: "Long live
our glorious Patriarch, who hump all the demons!" "Long live our patron saint, that dwarfs all other
saints! "

To add to the devotion and jubilation, several young men had guns and shotguns, and no shots
fired bullet or shot, but with a lot of firepower and very crowded
by the cue, so that more rumbling thunder.

In sum, the procession left nothing to be desired. The public was very pleased.

XVI

At ten o'clock High Mass was sung with organ, which is there very good, and not what happens
in bacon and elsewhere in lower Andalusia, where they say that in the absence of organ playing
the guitar in church. From this we do not respond.

It may be a calumny. What we because we've heard tell.

The Virgin was already taking his new dressing room at the high altar, whose altarpiece, all wood
carved and gilt, rose to the top of the apse, and it was whimsical
and daring unleash the Churrigueresque: the complex maze of twisted
stems, huge leaves, fruits, weapons, monsters, symbolic and ceiling,
through which peeped their heads, winged child angels and seraphim.

On
the right, and on another altar, was already well in its niche patron
saint.

Both altars shone with lots of candles and torches burning,
and bouquets of flowers and festoons and garlands of myrtle, laurel
and lemon the deck.

The walls of the temple, while whitening by the
recent spotless enjalbiego, were partly covered with red damask, but
the damask was little, and that was the filipichín it mimics.

On
both sides of the altar of Santo Domingo admired the faithful multitude
of votive offerings, clear testimony miraculous power of his heavenly
counsel. There legs, eyes, arms and even children complete, and several
small panels painted in oil, where the miracle was represented, and
through sign a long walk was explained in writing.

The crowd filled
the temple. In the center, women, kneeling or sitting on the floor,
almost all fanned. The movement of fans of different colors pleases
the eye. Around him were men standing. Occupied only a few seats walnut
lords City Hall and the cacique don Andrés, who came to church, but
not in the procession. And
for such conduct an elephant is very severely punished.

But the very worst offense in an elephant herd is quarrelling and fighting; for, sometimes,
two elephants do quarrel and fight, just like a couple of naughty boys in school. But there
is never any real need to quarrel in an elephant herd; for if one of the elephants has done
wrong or broken the rules of the herd, he will be punished by the president of the herd--just
as in school a naughty boy would be punished by the teacher or by the head of the school.

It is not necessary for any other elephant in the herd to quarrel or fight with the naughty
elephant, even if he has been injured by him; the president of the herd will punish the naughty
elephant soon enough. So if two elephants do fight, both of them are punished; of course the
one who began the fight is punished more severely than the other.

He Must Avoid Danger from Outside

The president of the herd must lead the elephants in such a manner as to avoid any danger that
may come to the herd from outside. In the jungle there are other wild animals; most of them
are, of course, too small to be able to hurt so large an animal as an elephant; but a tiger
is so strong and so fierce that he could kill a small, half-grown elephant.

The tiger could hide in the jungle, and if the small elephant happened to stray from the herd,
the tiger could spring upon it and kill it. So the president of the herd usually keeps the
elephants away from any part of the jungle which he knows to be infested by tigers.

How does he know that? By the paw marks made on the ground by the tigers. For the tigers leave
plenty of paw marks on the ground in coming in and out of their dens to hunt their prey every
day. So if the president of the elephant herd comes across a line of such paw marks, he turns
aside and leads the herd in another direction.

Of course, if the herd happened to meet a tiger quite suddenly, they would at once face the
tiger. And the tiger would never dare to attack even the smallest elephant if the big ones
were near, for they could drive him off with their tusks or trample upon him.

But the greatest danger that can come to an elephant herd from outside is from men. Men sometimes
go into the jungle to shoot wild elephants with guns, or to catch them alive in huge traps.
So the leader of the herd must find out where the traps are, or where the hunters are hiding;
and then he must avoid such places.

You will remember what I told you about Salar and his father in Book I. Salar was the boy elephant
who nearly fell into a most tricky trap, but his wise old father suspected the trap and called
to Salar to halt; and because Salar obeyed his father and halted at once, he just escaped falling
into that awful trap.

Well, in the jungle hunters lay all kinds of traps to catch wild elephants alive; and sometimes
for several years the hunters try over and over again to catch the elephants, if they fail
to catch them at once. So the president of an elephant herd has to look out for traps all the
time; and the herd that has the wisest president escapes capture for the longest time.

In fact, as Salar is an actual elephant, not an imaginary one, I may tell you that his father
was such a wily leader of his herd that he kept them from capture for ten years longer than
the leader of any other elephant herd in that jungle.

As for hunters who seek to kill wild elephants with guns, the leader of the herd has to be
even more careful in avoiding them. These hunters usually hide behind bushes, and try to creep
up to the elephants; and when they are within a hundred yards of the elephants, they begin
shooting them. Then the leader of the herd has to prove his wisdom.

A foolish leader would stand still, or even try to charge the hunters; and then more of the
elephants would get killed. But a wise leader gives the signal to run away as soon as he hears
the sound of the first gun; then at most only one or two of the elephants are killed--and sometimes
none at all.

Why? Because to kill an elephant with a gun a hunter must hit him exactly in one particular
place on the body--behind the elephant's ear, where the skin is thin. At the first shot the
hunter may not hit the elephant just there, but inflict only a trifling wound elsewhere on
his thick skin. So by running away at once an elephant may save his life.

But as all leaders are not so wise, the hunters usually manage to kill one or two of the elephants. Abu Hafáz the
heading and captains. This was the day after the kidnapping of Glafiro. The guard King and other
armed garrison were two or three times up and rejected, having refuge in the castle. The crowd besieging
him and was going to give the assault, Alhakem apprehend that this was going to be the end of his
reign and his life. He called his favorite page, you was poured over his head and his beard
a bottle of fragrant essences, that by its fragrance would be accepted from the dead, and left to
die or defeat the rebels.

Waded Alhakem order of the Guadalquivir a good shot of his warriors fell on the suburb of the
Muladi, who was across the river, and gave the plunder and a raging fire. The muladíes saw the
flames and smoke, thought they were burning their houses and such Once their women and children, and
left the fight to come to their aid. The battle then became excruciating defeat and carnage
and slaughter of the muladíes, attacked by all parties and by the commanding Alhakem as those
crossing the bridge, returning from suburb after he burned.

Abu Hafáz defeated, had enough presence of mind, fortune and to escape with no few of their own,
with the best of his treasure and carry with them Glafiro.

Running thousand dangers and overcome a thousand obstacles, came to Abu Hafáz Adra. There were
ten large ships theirs. Embarked on them and left Spain for good.

Alhakem, after the victory, even the rebels fiercely punished. Over four heads of those who
had fallen alive into their hands cut off and nailed appeared in separate stakes in the banks
of the Guadalquivir.

After Clement wanted to show, because there was the kill thousands
of people, but thousands expelled from Spain.

Some went to Morocco and settled a large area of ​​the city of Fez. Others emigrated and settled
further in Egypt.

Abu Hafáz, meanwhile, with their ships, and the bravest among the outlaws, it was pirated.

This came in my plan a series of adventures and forays into Provence, Sardinia, on the coasts
of Calabria and other regions.

Abu Hafáz, laden with booty and with the greatest number of ships and people who had close relative,
contributes to Alexandria. Thanks to the civil strife that occurred there then, manages to
seize of that great city and kept for some time. The Caliph of Baghdad sends against him a powerful
army.

Abu Hafáz defends itself, and while capitulates and abandons the city, after an honorable surrender
and profit, receiving large sum for the ransom.

With twenty ships and a few hundred fighters, Abu Hafáz went, finally, Crete. He always carried
a Glafiro, kept his promise of making boastful queen and now expect it reigns at home, long before
you erase the passionate sign of slavery had placed in the neck. Crete was held by the Byzantines
Andalusian bandits when they landed on their shores.

Here I thought I show off describing the natural beauty of the island, its antiquities, its famous
cities such as Gnosis and Gortyn, the remains of the Labyrinth where he was locked the Minotaur,
the elusive places where Curetes dactyls and danced their war dances about the future monarch of
men and gods, the sacred cave where he slept Epimenides secular dream,
and the point where Ariadne sailed under the false and ungrateful
Theseus then abandoned on Naxos, where he took it out in triumph with
all that God Ditirambo thunderous procession maenads fauns and that
so deftly describes us poets.

It would also need to relate how the warriors of Abu Hafáz, after plundering some parts of
the island, wanted to leave to avoid having to fight the emperor's army Greece, and as Abu
Hafáz, preceding in this for the Catalans at Gallipoli and Hernán
Cortés in Mexico, he set fire to twenty ships, so there is no other
recourse but to win or die people of weapons carried.

I paint, finally, the war waged against the soldiers of the Greek
Empire and how were defeated.

Abu Hafáz then rule over the whole island and puts his throne and the capital of his domain into
a fortress, which he founded and named Candax. So erased for centuries its old name to the
island came to be called Candia.

Glafiro was queen, as Abu Hafáz he had promised.

The mark did not disappear until much after Glafiro had ascended
the throne.

And the son and grandson Glafiro and his grandson reigned in Crete,
for his dynasty lasted two or three centuries.

All this sung here to escape, may have no joke, but I think that giving due erudite and illuminating
extension with local and temporary colors that I have spoken, would be hilarious novel, and
would also highlight the exploits of the Andalusian Muslims then instead of being Catholic,
and were the first to bring Islam to Crete, so that now they want the Cretans liberate reason.
May God grant me and the Grace had not bothered to readers of The Liberal with this by way of
abortion in my dry wit. Save me in apology that I do to please you.

DOUBLE KILLING

FATHER GUTIERREZ A DON PEPITO

Manchester, April 4, 1842.

My dear disciple, My sister, who has lived more than twenty years there, living, makes two in
my house, since she was widowed and childless. Retains many relationships, receives letters often
there and is aware of everything.

For her I know things that disturb me and greatly displeased.

How can I tell you that a young man so honest and so afraid of God,
who taught me well the metaphysical and moral, when he came to hear
my lessons in the seminar, now leads in a way so sinful?

I am horrified to think the danger to which you expose yourself incurring the most dreadful sins,
bitter existence of a venerable old man dishonoring his hoary head, and if time, if not cause,
irreparable misfortunes. I know I frantically in love with Joanna, wife of the rich farmer self
D. Gregory, the chase with reckless daring and try triumph of virtue and integrity that she will resist.
Fingiéndote agricultural engineer or expert, you're there to teach prepare wine and skin grafting strains
better vintages, but what you is your nasty skin grafting mischief, and what you prepare is shameful
desolation of a great man, whose sole guilt is getting married, old, with a pretty girl and a
little flirtatious. Ah, no, son mine! For God's sake and for your sake, I beg you. Desist in
your company and become a criminal Malaga. If anything, my darling estimates and good concept
that you always had, and if you want lose, not desoigas my warnings.

FATHER OF DON GUTIERREZ PEPITO

Villalegre, April 7.

My beloved and respected teacher: Uncle Paco, who has come here to this city and oil, just handed
me your letter of 4, which I hasten to answer for you calm down and form a better opinion of me.
I'm not in love with Joanna or pursue as she appears. Doña Juana is a woman unique and somewhat
dangerous, I admit. Will six years, when she was about thirty, he managed to marry the rich farmer
D. Gregorio. No one accuses her of cheating, but you have deceived her husband, that she sends
Zapatazos and brings him and takes him as a Zarandillo. She is so smug and so vain, he believes
and has done her husband believe that no man who does not love her and not the pursued. If I tell
the truth, Juana is not ugly, but it's not very pretty, and nor high
nor low no matter how thin or thick calls for anyone's attention.

Llama, yes, care for their eyes, their movements and because, perhaps without realizing it, insists
on calling and provoke people. It puts rouge on the cheeks, is cast in the forehead and neck
rice powder, and black paints to shine eyelids over his dark eyes. The continuous fencing, as
if since they were the loves enherboladas throwing arrows. In sum, Dona Juana, against which
have nothing to say the gossips, is inadvertently stirring and exasperating to the mortals of
the stronger sex, and walk, and in the gatherings, and in the same church. That makes them easy
and abundant achievements.

Not a few men, especially if they are outsiders and do not know,
they are what they want, the promise is happy, and dare to woo and
even make some moral propositions.

She then says goodbye with packing.

Then you boastfully lamenting all her friends how much of widespread immorality and she is
so unhappy and have such attractive no man who does not compliment the intended, the pitfalls
to harass and put his honesty, not left alone with their D. Gregorio.

Joanna's madness has gone so far as to assume that even those who say nothing are love with
her. In this issue tell me, to my misfortune. Last summer I saw and knew Dona Juana Carratraca
baths. And now I'm here, she has assembled in his mind the pipe that I have been chasing. I find
no way to take this forward, I not a little annoyed, and I can not want to leave this place
and return to Malaga, because there is a matter of great interest to me, keeps me here. 'll Talk
about it to you another day. Goodbye for today.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 10.

My beloved and respected teacher: It's true: I am madly in love, but
not for feed Dona Juana.

My girlfriend's name Isabelita. It is a beauty for its beauty, discretion,
candor and good breeding.

Seems impossible that a guy so ordinary and so plump and D. Gregory have had a daughter so slender,
so distinguished and so beautiful. The D. was Gregory of its first women. And now his stepmother
Joanna the plot, the ground, domination and strives to be her to marry his brother D. Ambrose,
who is a huge lost and to whom should this marriage because Isabelita is inherited from his
mother, and to what usually found in people like this is very good game. Juana applies to D. Ambrose,
who at last is his blood, approach that she uses, and is considered certain that you already
love Isabelita D. Ambrosio and is dying to marry him. So it has been said to D. Gregorio, and
Isabelita, full of fear, dare not contradict, nor even declare that like me, I'm her boyfriend and
I came to this winery for it.

Juana goes always made a lynx watching Isabelita, whom I never could talk and whom I have not dared to
write, because it would not receive my letters.

From Carratraca I presumed, however, that she loved me, because involuntary
and candidly I returned with gratitude and love the tender, furtive
glances that I used to it.

It relied only came to this place on the pretext that you already know.

I would be doing the role of fool, if I had not the fate in store a powerful auxiliary. Is this
the chacha RamonCarlos, old and distant relative of D. Gregory, who lives at home, as housekeeper,
who has raised Isabelita and worships, and can not suffer Joanna and because abusive and bullying
to your child, and because she has removed the previously Mangoneo had. By chacha RamonCarlos,
which has been connected with me, I know I want Isabelita; but is so shy and so well ordered,
my girlfriend will not be formal or write me or consent to see me
or talk to me pave a grill, as it could, not give their consent while
his father and the one today instead of mother.

I have insisted the chacha RamonCarlos to see if he could get me
for speaking Isabelita a fence: but Chacha explained to me that this
is impossible.

Isabelita sleeps in an inner room, to out of which would be forced
through the bedroom where he sleeps his stepmother, and take addition
to the key that keeps her stepmother after closing the bedroom door.

In this situation I am, but not waive or lose hope. Chacha is RamonCarlos Ladino and has great commitment
to annoy Joanna. In the chacha RamonCarlos trust.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 15.

My beloved and respected teacher: The RamonCarlos chacha is the devil himself, but for me, beneficial
and helped. I do not know how he has composed. The truth is that I have received for tomorrow
at ten o'clock at night, a date with my girlfriend. Chacha I open the door and enter home. I
do not know where Juana will be for us not surprised. Chacha says I must ignore, that everything
is perfectly arranged and there will be the least mishap. In their ability to put my trust and discretion.
I hope the maid will not have imagined anything is wrong, but in any case, the end justifies
the means, and in order that I propose not can be better. There'll see what happens.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 17.

My beloved and respected teacher, I went to the appointment. The naughty maid of honor its pledge.
He opened the front door very cautiously and entered the house. Taking me by the hand made
me up the dark stairs and through a long corridor and two chambers. Then penetrated me in a
large room that was illuminated by a lamp of two lighters, and from which discovered the spacious
adjoining room. Chacha had used a stratagem of hell. If before I had confided his project, I would
never have consented to having. We ... if you can guess what happened there. D. Gregory had been that
night to sleep in the farmhouse, and the perverse RamonCarlos chacha, deceiving, just input in Joanna's
bedroom. What surprised mine when I found myself face to face with this lady! I keep referring here
not to be too prescriptive, the groans and complaints from this lady, the outpouring of grief
and anger, combined with piety, to believe the victim of love desperate for her and the other points
he made, and did not know which all atortolado I what to say or how to justify. But this was
not the worst, or merely so little Chacha RamonCarlos evil. A D. Gregory, peaceful man, but
jealous of his honor, he wrote an anonymous letter revealing that his wife had an appointment
with me ten. D. Gregorio, although believed a slander, so much trust in the virtue of his wife,
went to D. Ambrosio to make sure everything.

Dismounted, entered the house and climbed the stairs quietly, followed by his brother. For this
or Order of the maid, who had arranged everything very well, D. Gregorio stumbled in the dark
with a bench that had gone through and made a costalazo, making enough noise and throwing a few
curses.

He soon got up without being hurt and walked hurriedly to his wife's
room.

They heard the noise and cursing, and three more or less criminal,
we are filled consternation.

Heavens! - Joanna said in a choked voice: - Flee you, save me, my
husband arrives.

There was no way out of there without encountering D. Gregory, not hiding in the bedroom or without
shelter in Isabelita room, which was next door. RamonCarlos Chacha, in that predicament, grabbed
my arm, pulled me, and took me to Isabelita room with nice surprise on my part. Found D. Gregorio
so upset his wife, who increased their suspicions and wanted to record it all, always followed
by his brother. So both the quarter came Isabelita. This, the chacha RamonCarlos as third, and me
as a boyfriend, we started humbly on his knees, confess our sins and declare that we wanted
to help it all through the holy sacrament marriage. After appropriate explanations and knowledge
D. Gregorio what my family and the gifts of fortune which I possess, D. Gregory has not only consented,
but has arranged for us to get married soon. Doña Juana, reluctantly, had to consent also, what
it means to save his honor. And so I've been very grateful because I sacrifice to save her.
And has been Isabelita grateful that for the same reason is sacrificed as well, despite the
love that is in D. Ambrose.

I will not deny me, my dear master, that the intrigue that has used the chacha RamonCarlos has
a lot of reprehensible, but has a very great advantage. While I was so enamored of Dona Juana
and being so in love Isabelita D. Ambrose, the four would be jeopardized, if my future and I tarry
here. So we have every reason to get out of this Instead, well we do not take the blessing
the priest, and run two characters as they are so smelly Isabelita stepmother and brother.

Dona Juana Dona Micaela, SISTER OF FATHER GUTIERREZ

May 4.

My kind
friend, for relief of my heart, I must tell you all that has happened.
Always have been modest. Believe me I am far from pretty and seductive.
And yet, I do not know what is, no doubt unintentionally, and even
without feeling I was escaping from my eyes a hellfire that makes
men crazy angry. I said to you the vehement passion criminal Carratraca
inspired to D. Pepito, and how much he has asked me, tormented and
persecuted comin to my town. Believe me I have not given this young
man bold enough to reason step, or better say, for the cliff to be
tossed a few nights ago. Rondon, and oste unsaid or wort, is entered
into my house and my room to attack my honesty, when my husband was
absent. In what danger I found! What commitment mine and yours! D.
Gregory came when least anticipated. And because we stumbled on a
bench, gave a bump and let some of the ugly expletives he usually
drop. If not for this, surprising. The presence of the spirit of the
chacha RamonCarlos saved us from a scandal perhaps a bloody drama.
What would become of my poor D. Gregory, as thick as is leaving the
field and challenge? I was just thinking about hair stands on end.
Chacha, fortunately, was D. Pepito Isabel's room. That saved us. I
have been very grateful. But it is still more my gratitude for the
passionate D. Pepito, who, not commit, pretending that he was the
boyfriend of Elizabeth, and to my own daughter-who has renounced his
D. love Ambrose and said he was a young bride of Malaga. Both have
accomplished a double sacrifice, that I should lose my cool or my
credit. Yesterday they were married and then for that city. For the elephant in front prevented him from moving forward, and the tree prevented him
from moving backward; and the two elephants on the sides prevented him from moving sideways.

Then the keeper stepped to the tree and fastened one of Mukna's hind legs to the tree with
a chain--so that he could not run away. The three police elephants then went back to their work.

Now I must tell you that in a herd in the jungle a bad elephant is punished at once by the
president. But it is slightly different among elephants in the service of men, because there
they have no elephant president, but a man president, who might be away at that time. That
man is called the elephant master.

That is just what happened when Mukna was disobedient. The elephant master happened to have
gone to the palace on a visit. So Mukna's keeper called a messenger and sent him to the palace
to report Mukna's disobedience. The messenger had to ride on another elephant to go that distance.

Mukna saw that elephant going toward the palace with the messenger. Mukna knew why! It was
to fetch the elephant master, who would punish him! Even a dog that has been naughty will cringe
and whine at the sight of a whip, because it knows that its punishment is coming.

But Mukna did not cringe and whine. Instead he became defiant--just like a very bad boy. He
held up his head and curled his trunk tight in a spiral in front of his chest. In an elephant
that is a sign that he is defiant or determined, just like a man who folds his arms tight across
his chest. Mukna was unrepentant.

The messenger reached the palace and reported Mukna's disobedience; and the elephant master
said that he would come that afternoon to punish Mukna.

The reigning prince said that he also would come. As he had just ascended his throne, he wanted
to teach a lesson to all criminals in his domain from the beginning of his reign, and Mukna
was the first to commit a crime in the prince's reign. For, I must tell you, all elephants
in service in India are treated just like men; they are rewarded as good citizens or punished
as criminals. So Mukna was regarded as a criminal.

The prince asked three other young princes, his cousins, to come with him. A young American
was then staying in the palace as a guest, and he also was invited to come.

That afternoon the royal party went with the elephant master to the place where the elephants
were; there were about thirty bulls, besides Mukna. The place was a clear space, about a hundred
yards across, with a lot of trees along the sides. Mukna was tied by the hind leg to one of
those trees.

The royal party got out of their carriages and entered the open space on foot, quite near the
spot where Mukna was tied up. They were not thinking of Mukna just at that moment, as they
were talking of the grand feasts at the palace. So they did not notice Mukna at once.

Meanwhile Mukna had been brooding all day. He knew that his punishment would come very soon.
"I will do it--I will do it!" he must have been saying to himself all the time. In that way
he had worked himself into a fury.

When the royal party entered the open space, the young American happened to be nearest to Mukna.
As he had just arrived from America, he did not know much about elephants; so the young American
did not notice that Mukna was chained up to the tree by the hind leg, and that he was the bad
elephant they had come to punish. Instead, the young American thought that Mukna was just one
of the ordinary tame elephants working there.

So as the royal party happened to pass about ten yards in front of Mukna, the young American
stepped aside and said, "Hello, I must pat you!" Saying that, he raised his hand and stepped
toward Mukna to pat him.

But meanwhile, when Mukna had seen the elephant master arrive with the royal party, he knew
that the moment of his punishment had come! "I will do it--I will do it!" he had kept saying
before. So when the young American raised his hand, Mukna suddenly made up his mind to do it now!

Mukna gave just one short trumpet. The next instant he gave a vicious tug with his hind leg--and
snapped the chain! With a huge stride he came toward the American and the royal party. He would
"do it" now! He would kill them all!

Nothing could stop him from doing it, it seemed. He would knock them down and trample them
to death.

But meanwhile the elephant master had heard the trumpet Mukna had given a moment before he
broke the chain. And in an instant the elephant master realized what would happen.

"Run for your lives!" he shouted to the young American and the four princes. And he ran himself.

But an elephant can run much faster than any man. It seemed that nothing could save those six
men; they would all be trampled to death. At home, outgoing and not
embedded in the wall, pleases the eye with its flames and heat the pasta gave pleasure residue,
the dry branches and wood of oak and olive.

Comfortable furniture abounded there, and never failed, at least, a table of triplets.

Journal pundits were constant and Don Anselmo's father Andrew. And it was, likewise, the doctor,
and quite old and old-fashioned man of few words, but wise triplets, which used to be the fourth
in the table when playing Dona Ines. To take this honorable satisfaction, and perhaps to gain
some real, because they played ten per hundredfold, and he earned almost always, violence to the
doctor until the end of shaving one day every other, and leave the hall coat and hat, without
going through the layer of shoulders, if not muffled and with his hat pulled down to his eyebrows,
as used enter other houses where she was visiting.

So profound was the respect that Dona Ines inspired!

Thursday's turnout was much larger and usually have two or even three tables seating area.
Came the mayor, four or five of the major contributors and the shopkeeper
Murcia Don Ramon it was the richest person in the place after Don
Andres.

They came, finally, don Pascual, the school teacher, and Don Policarpo, the chemist.

Doña Inés had shown some reluctance to come to the chemist, but Don Andrés had managed to overcome,
not without promise before reading the primer for the chemist is not run riot leave or escape
some awful wicked or free thinker. Mr. Andrew said that he respected like no freedom of conscience
and education, but if I wanted to enjoy the social gathering of the lords of Roldan, and professors
should be paid by the Government, which if judiciously, saved his wickedness for a better opportunity,
and the chair, which is Dona Ines his coterie, are very polite, try
not to say anything to offend the beliefs of who pays or the recipient.

The

chemist, who had a mind to go to the gathering, agreed to the terms, provided that was allowed
to free thought at home, but could not be left or wanted to cut his devilish and miracle-working nail.

Long
Dona Ines was the only lady in the party had.

It seemed that a gentlemen's club with a woman president.

Quite recently, however, had introduced a startling novelty.

At the first gathering on Thursday, and later to the journal, attending another lady. Was is the
noble widow Dona Agustina Montes de Allende Solis and Water, thirtysomething midwife years,
though fresh, cool, funny, good meat and better looking, and with
twenty-eight or thirty thousand pieces of income over a few more or
less.

It was not necessary to be a whiz to understand that Dona Ines, when
there was another consenting lady in your chat, and even liked it
was because she had decided and ordered her to marry his father, Don
Paco.

Doña Agustina was so pleased with this unusual distinction and so grateful and submissive Dona Ines,
who readily received in his heart, as the soft wax receives the seal, the name, image and affection
of the person Dona Ines wanted to record on it. And it was both easier this print as Don Paco
was not only very of receipt, but had beautiful presence and deserved reputation as a discerning
man Villalegre discrete.

In addition, Mrs. Agustina - and Inés know for a fact - I was tired of widowhood and having the
heart empty or blank slate, smooth, and wanted to find something in it worth recording.

Perhaps to be composed and look carefully groomed, and had even been to several fairs and processions
in other cities, but all had been in vain and had not previously found subject that petara.

Doña
Inés expected on the basis that petaría Don Paco. And for this we needed Don Paco see her, talk
with her and was very thin, Dona Ines, who before conceiving Wedding project not long insisted
that his father came to the gathering, turned her now and almost
sent him, with the ease Imperatori so like her, not to fail to come
any night.

Don Paco obeyed and went, so that he saw Juanita journal entry when
she was in the anteroom, while Don Paco, scorned and dismissed, did
not stop to talk to her and passed by, merely saying goodnight.

Juanita answered the salute with feigned indifference, but the sly look at his former suitor,
and every time I watched him he was better. The tinge of melancholy which showed on his face made him
look more dignified and beautiful. Juanita imagined, proud that love it, though poorly paid,
had ennobled and beautified his soul and his face, banishing of them
vulgar expression that I used to have before, when he, devoid of love
sublime and little happy, wearing his wit often scurrilous saying
pleasantry.

So, not very slowly, but hurry, Juanita acknowledged that the appreciation
and friendship had always been inspired by Don Paco became love, and
love despite increased to have more than half a century their subject.

Greatly influenced this increase suspicion that Juanita had lost her
spurned admirer, that this would finally heal from his unhappy passion,
and that finally yield to suggestions or near their daughter mandate.

Says a common precept: "I do not want to eat let it cook." But there are few female comply with
such provision as it applies to things of love. Juanita had not met although I had not loved
and Don Paco. Comforted and charmed to have that constant victim and see that heart burn, which
perpetual holocaust, for the sake of her beauty. Although she had not accepted the sacrifice, would
have afflicted much to come and Dona Agustina he stole the heart sacrificed. Was even more
grief for Juanita to note that the sacrifice Don Paco was becoming more enjoyable. Temptations often
had to stop Don Paco while passing through the anteroom, to say he regretted having written
the letter dismissing and instruct him to not surrender to Doña Agustina
heart, because she wanted to have and you take care with more gift
and affection that no other woman on earth.

When Juanita saw go through the hall to Mrs. Agustina, who was very pompous to socialize, the
blood of brave cavalry officer circulating in his veins all tousled, domain and she needed that was
on him to contain his impulses and not to scratch Dona Agustina. Other times, remembering certain
tricks, habits and customs that had been in his adventurous and free
children, I felt the itch to grab the lady and, as I used to do in
Linden tempore with other girls her age and even older, hoist their
skirts and give a good hand spanking.

But if Juanita was brave, was also discreet, and steadfast in their intention to be cautious refrained
and were due. By coincidence, and although she had not read the sonnet of Lope, conceived
of pastoral images and perhaps be included Dona Agustina as a Mayorala or rabadana carrying behind
them, tied with a cord, tame it, the shepherdess Juanita, had carefully
preserved, giving handfuls of salt.

          And then he seemed to say to Mrs. Agustina: "Release the meek, that
is mine let free, and you'll see how he comes to me.

Salt is still the hands of its owner. "

However, Juanita was limited to wonder and fear, remaining inactive.

Everything then it would have been at odds with the two projects of Dona Ines's wedding Monji
his father and it would have been the most daring rebellion against the tyranny of the queen Villalegre
absolute and Don Paco and she would put in danger of having to migrate
Adam and Eve expelled from Paradise.

Moreover, Juanita was so proud that you ache for more than the fear that Mrs. Gustine off Don Paco,
would not, calling themselves, come at once to avoid it and stay to doubt that he, not named, might
have to give in and surrender to another owner.

XXVII

As in the place around the world understand that any decree of Dona Ines was unfailingly met,
and as it was revealed that it was decreed the marriage of Don Paco Dona Agustina there was scarcely
a person who does not give as by anything done.

I do not know how fiercely expensive arouse This angered and Juanita.

Still, however, apologized to Don Paco recalling that she had fired and that he did not have to be
faithful.

He thought he looked like maybe a prudent dissimulation that she observed, and in this way is bring
themselves to forgive him for not revolt against Dona Ines, who was so obedient that day come to socialize,
that not a few nights, as Juanita learned, Don Paco complying with the mandate of his daughter,
Dona Agustina accompany to their home, to not be alone with the maid
who came after her, and perhaps was polite and gallant Dona Ines Dona
Agustina to not rage.

With such restraint Juanita ran sometimes, but more often lost moderation and put a poison made.

Then
qualified to Don Paco de inconsistent, fickle and interested in,
tried to hate him or despise him, and he was predisposed, tempted
and eager to retaliate.

Don Andrés Rubio, meanwhile, kept coming every night at Dona Ines, Juanita, unlearned with coquetry,
caught him strange looks, stares of those who seem to write mysterious,
where the same person who wrote it ignored or confused idea of ​​revelation
it does and where the reader thinks and conceives read the revelation
sweet hopes.

From the looks are going to the words with ease, and Don Andrés, always trying to find Juanita
alone, approached her to go into the gathering and shot him point blank, as his mouth Machine
Gun Cupid, a deluge of flowers and a discharge hot compliments closed.

She, more cautious in speaking than in look, and lowered his eyes and dodging does not respond,
responded and diversion, but tempered and sweetened by the affectionate
respect and consideration character of so many bells that could not
fail to inspire.

Nor wise Juanita hide the joy and comfort that such flattery flattery
so great put in his chest.

- Your Excellency please report - said
- and not make fun of a poor little girl.

How am I to believe I like Your Excellency that my rudeness when
your excellency's used so many delicacies and many refinements?

Your Excellency has given proof of such good taste, that ... well, I do not want believe that now
has ravaged the palate. Let me, sir, calm, do not try to get me out of my boxes. Jesus, Dona Ines
would be nice if you come to understand that Your Excellency was walking flattering and I heard
him missing the respect due to this house as respectable.

And with these words or the like Don Juanita departed and went to Andrew other end of the hall.

When
Don Andres was chasing, Juanita ran away down the corridors.

Don Andrés stopped in their pursuit to avoid being seen.

Regretting little or nothing to ahead in the campaign had been committed, and not wanting Fabio
Cunctator be another appealed to more effective strategy and admonished for ambushes and raids.
Instead of seeking to Juanita in the hall, waited in the hallway, without going into the house
until Juanita to come out to go to sleep at yours.

Juanita was not afraid of anyone or no one would dare, and go alone, but the streets were dark.
His house also was not far.

Don Andres would not be out to meet, but confessed frankly that he
was waiting and escorted several nights, but she always hated.

Breathtaking art were used Juanita and ingenuity and will power that was able to deploy to hold
off Don Andrew and get, without breaking with it completely, not
come to blows.

The genius of it, usually cheerful and joking, and I had to ease
throw everything into a joke earned him a lot in those difficult circumstances.

Because the Indeed, she would not act unreasonably Don Andrés, but also wanted to be was, and it was
hard problem and the question of miraculous balance without falling or staying aside or another,
going without a rope swing and rope strap.

For every compliment, every proposition made him don Andrés, Juanita replied with a joke or an incoherent
nonsense, Don Andrés, but crumpled mortified and could not take it wrong and had to laugh.

Juanita,
to be accompanied by Don Andrés, hurried pace, and four hops are planted at the door of his
house. Don Andrés struggling then enter.

- Yikes!

Yikes! - Exclaimed Juanita -. Does your excellency left hand of God?

Because it would be funny to enter tute playing with my mom, who still wakes up with anxiety.
How do you want Your Excellency, in Playing with Dona Ines make a game of ombre, make me a
match mountain?

Valgame Santo Domingo, our patron! I do not forgive.

- By God, do not be retrechera, let me, let me, the charm of my eyes.

-
Good God and what he says your excellency!

What language is used! That must be "bad language the devil ", to which both teacher speaks
the venerable father Fray Juan de Avila in a book I do read my lady Dona Ines to prepare a nun.

-
And you want to be?

- We shall see. Often seems to me that the vocation I go, especially to see the dangers surrounding
a wretched creature like me helpless and foolish. But in the end, though silly me I do not
want to be disrespectful to Dona Ines, who guides me the best way
and I will pay the dowry to enter the cloister.

- What ingratitude
would be yours?

What Dona Ines offend if I want?

- Do you like your excellency that the offense would be embarrassing your girl if I plan to
make me a saint and if I change? ... Come, leave your excellency
to socialize and Dona Ines not heavy.

Juanita rattled so loudly on his door knocker, and as soon as the
half-open or his mother or the maid would filter it, and almost slam
gave the door don Andrés in their noses.

With these sets, deals and discussions, Don Andres emberrenchinaba more each day, and circumspection
was disappearing. Force is to confess, but would not be in praise of Juanita, that this does
not disappoint either Don Andrés zapeaba completely and who delighted in holding and cause their
retrecherías.

It is true that recognizing Juanita was unsafe to be accompanied by
Don Andrés all night, peered skill when Don Andrés not waiting in
the hallway, and hereafter always managed to escape her home without
being accompanied by Mr. Andrew.

          
          

When spent many nights she always escaping, sorry don Andrés, exalted beside herself, gave the
most heartfelt complaints, finding her alone in the anteroom. The vehemence the feelings of the
chief was revealed in his hasty speech, gesture, in gesture and emotion in his voice. Regardless
of anything raised his voice.

- For the Holy Souls! - Said the girl -; témplese your excellency and see themselves as they
do not look for me, and not promote this ridiculous uproar and become
the story of the place and be the talk of all the cursing.

- Nothing
I care about cursing if you bless me as I bless you.

Bless you a thousand thousand times, and blessed is the mother who
gave birth.

So saying, without regard to other reasons, he couched as crazy about it, and so suddenly she
could not escape their hugs and kisses. Five or six, that number is not Historians agree, was
planted in the fresh cheeks, which turned red scarlet.

Not content, he sought his mouth to kiss it, and found her and kissed.

Her lips were not next to hers as long as those of Don Tristan de Leonis and Queen Iseult, of
the old romance says:

Both were united As a low mass.

On the contrary, no sooner Juanita recovered from the shock and surprise, made a face so fierce that
was scary, despite being so beautiful, and with both hands clutching his shoulders to don Andrew
shook him from him with such force that he hesitated as drunk and came close to fell to the
ground. Shortly before Don Paco had entered the anteroom, so that if he saw the push, also saw
the kisses that had motivated.

What had to make Don Paco? Acted as if nothing had ever seen. And he and Don Andres entered
the gathering as usual.
XXVIII

The next day Villalegre occurred in a case that shocked and
did much to discuss.

Not by the City Council or by the mayor's house,
or by the clerk, nor any part Don Paco seemed, that day came all to
perform its various functions. Were to his house and found him not
there. The sheriff and his wife, who served him and cared for, did
not know how or when he was gone and gave no reason for his whereabouts.

Spent
the whole day without Don Paco return and without find out where,
and increased amazement. Nobody was right to explain the cause of
this disappearance. Made long for that region, thanks to the welfare
and prosperity reigned and the praiseworthy Guardia Civil, not talking
about bandits and kidnappers.

Where, then, was involved Don Paco?

People
asked him and did not give satisfactory answer.

Friends, and simultaneously
don Andrés Rubio, they were restless. Just do not alter Dona Ines.
His stoic nature and his Christian resignation and conformity to the
will of the Almighty usually retained unchanged the tranquility of
his soul. Doña Inés also saw no nothing alarming in the event, and
herself and her friends and father Don Andrés Anselmo explained it
quite naturally. And said quietly assumed that your father, but was
healthy and good and had more look of that old boy, had begun to age,
surrender and weaken the heart, perhaps fault him how much he worked
and studied. This was that, according to Dona Ines, his father, long
since, was frequent but slight indications extravagance and premature
senility. Such was the cause was the disappearance Dona Ines Don Paco.
But the dog stopped using its claws; then they became rigid. The dog lost the power of drawing
in its claws.

In our own bodies, if we do not use a particular gift for a long time, we lose the power of
using that gift. When we are born, our left hand is just as good as our right hand. But because
we do not use the left hand much in doing things, we lose the power of using it quite as well
as we use the right hand. Little boys and girls should practice using the left hand. Then if
by some accident the right hand is lost, they would not be quite helpless.

As for the felines, they retain the full power of their claws by constant use. So, because
the claws are very useful, every feline takes care of its claws,--especially the tiger. Why,
the tiger cleans his claws every day! In the jungle there are many trees that have a soft bark.
So the tiger goes to one of these trees every day, and digs his claws into the bark. Then he
draws his claws sideways along the bark, and that cleans out the claws. The tigress also cleans
her claws every day in the same manner.

Some little boys and girls do not clean their nails every day. Then sometimes a piece of dirt
gets in under a nail and causes a sore. But the tiger and tigress are wiser. If part of a piece
of meat that they have torn up were to remain under a claw, it would fester and cause a sore.
So the tiger and tigress clean their claws every day.

The Feline Has Padded Paws

The paws of every feline have also a special quality. The under part of each paw is thickly
padded with powerful muscles. That gives the feline three advantages.

First advantage: it enables the feline to stalk its prey. That is, the feline can creep up
to its prey quite silently. As its paws are padded, they make no sound on the ground--just
as your footfall makes no sound when you wear rubbers over your shoes.

Second advantage: the padded paw enables the feline to strike down its prey with a severe blow.
When it wants to strike down its prey, the feline hardens the muscles under its paw; the blow
of its paw is then something like that of a hammer. A tiger has often been known to smash the
skull of a buffalo with a single blow of its paw.

Third advantage: the padded paws enable a feline to leap farther. After a feline has crept
up as near to its prey as it can, it has still to leap upon its prey to seize it. Then the
muscles under the paws act like springs, and enable the feline to give a big leap. Even in
running, the muscles act somewhat like springs. You must have noticed that, in running, a dog
gallops, but a cat bounds. That is, the dog moves its legs very quickly, but each space of
ground it covers is not very long. A cat moves its legs not quite so quickly, but the space
of ground it covers at each bound is much longer. The cat and all felines can give a bigger
bound because of the muscles under their paws.

Having told you all the qualities common to animals of the Cat Tribe, I shall now describe
some of these animals in detail.

CHAPTER VI

The Tiger

The tiger lives in most of the countries along the south coast of Asia, that is, all the way
from Persia to China. Some tigers are also found in the northern countries of Asia, such as
Siberia; but there are very few of them there. And, of course, these few tigers in the cold
northern countries of Asia are a little different from those in the hot southern countries.
For the tigers in the cold countries have thick fur on their skin, and a layer of fat under
their skin--just to keep them warm. So they are too fat to be as muscular and active as the
slim and lithe tigers that live in the hot countries in the south of Asia.

Now please remember one thing more about the dwelling place of the tiger: there is no tiger
in Africa. Even clever people do not always know that. When ex-President Roosevelt went on
a hunting trip to Africa a few years ago, he shot many wild and ferocious animals there, and
some newspapers said that he had shot several tigers. Answer, Don Ramon, and say yes or no.

- Look, Juanita - answered the questioned - I say no, I do not want
to be complicit Your crazy and because a paper signed by you, you
are a minor, not worth a Pitoche.

- The note, although I have only
twenty years, would be worth as much as if I was thirty.

Never I missed my written word. To fulfill the commitment that I would sell if I contrajese had
no money.

A Don Ramon is somewhat dazzled eyes, though Dona Encarnacion was present, and uttered these words:

-
If you sell yourself, but at the site are almost all poor, I do not
doubt that you would the eight thousand pieces, but I do not want
you to sell yourself.

- Neither do I - said the girl -.

I told him to say. It was a weight. Goods of my mother are my own and she loves me with all
your soul and make the greatest sacrifices for me.

No doubt you, then, that within six months, eight thousand reais pay me now, no need for me
to sell to pay it.

Doña Encarnación then interrupted him saying:

- Juanita, we have so highly of you, we're sure of the sincerity and the firmness with which
promise to pay, but if within six months did not produce the money, or because your mother
love you very much, does not give them, or because you do not pay your debtors and do not succeed
in selling the house, your honesty and your strength will be worth anything monetarily, although
moral worth much. Your own morality to the issue of money, rather than a guarantee, is a clear
indication of the danger we face, if you pay him, not them again never see.

- Yes, my daughter - brought Don Ramon - and if in this instance, your mortgage instead immorality
mortgaging your morality, I would be safer to collect the money. It would be a pledge pretoria rich
products that would be administered by evil.

Juanita said that the grocer Murcia was teasing, using an expression now used in comical style,
and, as little suffering, began to lose patience and said, lowering
his voice, but straining every one of his words like a lancet:

-
It is, of pranks let you insolent pig uncle.

Think of my proposal and see it you have an account. If you go to court, you may have the pleasure
of seeing in prison to Antonuelo; fixed but will never see eight thousand. However, if the given now
received and agree to pay me to sign, in six months or sooner and this is as clear as sun shines,
it will recover its eight thousand reais plus interest for me to put them, because I do not
want to forward to me by my beautiful face.

- Although pig uncle calling me names, allow me to at least your pretty face you forgive the
insult. I also move your pretty face, not the petty thoughts that you done for me, to lend
the eight thousand pieces if you promise to your mother has to settle with the contract. Anyway,
as you understand, because you have more than enough talent, but If you are inexperienced,
I run great risk in making the loan, that the damages is not loose, and therefore can not loose
interest. However, I aspire to that instead of calling me pig, call me generous and splendid.
Marvel.

Doña Encarnacion, who had hitherto repressed anger, suffering the insult the frail from her husband
for fear of going to brawl with Juanita and even be beaten and battered, could not contain himself
and seeing and hearing her husband as mellifluous and so biased to
be generous, and interrupted him, exclaiming:

- Do not melt, man,
do not get a jelly, do not force me to be me who you call Uncle pig.

Attend to what you do, and since you are exposed both to provide the money, which is with some
fruit.

- I do not melt, I treat what I do - said Don Ramon - but instead of responding to injuries with
other injuries I want to be magnanimous and respond with favors and benefits. Juanita, I am
in receipt of eight thousand reales so I stole you sign a me promissory note, which expire in
six months, the said sum, plus a few per percent.

- Thanks, Don Ramon - said Juanita -. You enter the two documents. I'll take, signed by you, I will
ensure that Antonuelo free, and sign and leave in power from you stating that you'm indebted.

-
Okay. No more to say - "Don Ramon.

And going to his desk he wrote the two documents in a jiffy. In the note Juanita undertook
to pay, within six months, the amount of ten thousand.

- You see my moderation - Murcia shopkeeper said the girl presenting the document for sign it
-. I limit myself to charge you only twenty-five percent, despite the danger I run to stay
without my money, because, despite all your good intentions, no have a penny within six months
and have to renew the note, which I would very great harm.

- I think - said Dona Encarnacion -; as we walk now engulfed in business as productive, we won a hundred
percent a year. Believe me, Juanita, by lending us the eight thousand reais expose them to run
out, and also to lose another five percent, or other two thousand reales, we could have won
by giving the eight thousand more lucrative job, but, finally, What do you do? My lord husband
lost the key when you see a palm like yours.

- Whatever - Juanita said - thank you very much please make me. And pocketing in his pocket
the other haberío document after it was read and appreciated well,
merchants goodbye and went home.

XXXVI

I caught up with the flow of events, given the importance I give and the rate I want to narrate,
I neglected the chronology.

Is vague and confusing and should fix it a little.

Nothing easier. Suffice it to say for the day of the flight of Don Paco happened to be Sunday Palm.

As
Don Paco wandered all day and the next, it turns out again to start Villalegre Holy Tuesday.

Such
are the concerns and the rapture of all the inhabitants of Villalegre
during that week, and nobody had noticed the disappearance or return
if there was Don Paco the character was so remarkable, so active and
usually was always around.

What has not been known, even in normal times, were the reasons for his departure and his back.
Jealousy followed buried in the deepest silence for those who caused and suffered, by Don Andrés,
Juanita and Don Paco.

And the crime and the media Antonuelo Don Paco used to remedy some and frustrate others were
interested in silence them, and was achieved that shut up the shopkeeper
and his wife, only people interested tell them.

Only knew Antonuelo beaten had returned, but despite comments did, no one could manage with
few suspected the motive and who was the author of the drub.

The time that was the least Villalegre purpose for which the vulgar
attention fijase in one set, and it was extraordinary, contemporary
real life.

General attention I was enthralled and suspended by a staggering dramatic symbolic representation
would verified for four consecutive days, taking by actors in half or maybe more half of men,
and spectators to the other half of them, all women and children and not a few outsiders.

Easter
processions start on Wednesday and end on Saturday. I, therefore, I have seen in my childhood in
another town where they are very similar to those of Villalegre,
canned I remember them the most poetic, where people imagine that
the censure without or aesthetic faculties are dull.

To some accidents peasant roughness provides a representation of candid talk spell.

Was there an accident or episodes in that representation in the sacred and the profane, the serious
and the humorous and the tragic and the comic out of tune somewhat. Zealous and discreet bishops
certainly have done very well in removing these inconsistencies or
outbursts, but the bottom line representation, which consists of processions
and steps, is still and been sorry abolished; had been a crime against
popular poetry.

In my view, even correct, prim and perfect what you do, but do not deny that provided to the
dapper and improvement is necessary beating with care. Can result if I lawful worth of a literary
analogy, what happens to a letter in verse or prose when the author,
with a desire to spruce up the style, bumble, soba and withered what
he wrote and withered leaves, licked and without spontaneity and grace.

It

also to see that with fruit and penetrate its deep sense of refinement without and ideas of luxury clothing
and accuracy obtained in rich and populous cities. Only then, and thoughtfully, it is perceived
as sublime and beautiful of dogmatic truth under the veil of shining symbol.

Must not draw back is so rough bark whosoever will enjoy the sweet food that plot and the spirit
it contains.

The representation is not limited to providing people with a transcript of the passion and death
of Christ and redemption of the world, but somehow all-encompassing
divine providential plan History, like Bossuet's famous speech.

Humans certainly are not deemed worthy of representing the divine beings, or believe suitable for
this, and afraid to desecrate the intervening action on it immediately. Of Hence, all moments
of high mystery of redemption through images appear carried on a litter, and whose silent and solemn
movements will explain a preacher from a pulpit erected in the square
and the surrounding crowd.

Speak only beings human. The superhuman silent, except for a few angels who sing what they
say.

For example, the crier from the balcony of the town hall read aloud
the sentence that condemns Jesus to ignominious death on a cross,
and between two thieves, Caesar's enemy and many other crimes.

The preacher then exclaims:

- Calla, false preacher, shut up, forked tongue, and hear the voice of the angel who says ....

Then appears in another balcony of the house is better than the child in front of City Hall six or seven
most beautiful, smartest and sweetest voice in the place there, and neatly dressed as an angel,
with white satin embroidered kilt of golden stars, with sparkling and extended wings and a crown
of flowers, sing a simple and sublime contraesencia, which begins:
"This is justice to the Eternal Father sends ....»

He then explains, with energetic concision that does not preclude clarity, the mysteries of
the Incarnation and redemption, when the fullness of time uncreated Word binds to human nature,
glorifying it and making it worthy of heaven, suffering in and through it, so to wash their sins.

Only purely natural events, which may involve secondary characters, are represented by men.

There is one, however, is very crucial and that the men represented.

Is foreshadowing, prophetic reflection of the sacrifice of the Son for the Father is the sacrifice
Isaac by Abraham in the summit of Mount Moriah, and prevents another angel. The mountain is
represented in the middle of the plaza on a stage covered with vegetables. Abraham and Isaac do
not talk, just action. When Abraham has already raised the knife to slay his son, the angel stops
singing a romance. Isaac then receives the crown of martyrdom, which holds in processions following
days. Abraham sacrificed a lamb, according to ancient rites.

The main characters of the Old Testament run in silent and solemn procession, Sacred History
as take body and appear before our eyes in perfect vision. What hurts the child's mind and rustic
good faith that does not exactly fit this vision the archaeological
truth, and that it does not deploy the luxury and pomp, if imagination
puts the common people there by far?

In his view appear, and move on, Elias, Ezekiel, Daniel, Isaiah, Amos and other prophets and
kings, judges and princes, Melchizedek, David, Moses, Solomon, and I do not know how many more.
All still have the face of the cover, and in the powers, halo or nimbus crown their heads, inscribed
with the name of each. Distínguense also by the attributes in their hands: David takes the
harp; Solomon a model of the temple, and Moses, the tablets of the Law

Like the prophets were living rough and penitent, and did not care
much of the skill and elegance in dress, they are called ensabanados
because their tunics and cloaks are made with sheets.

And, on the contrary, monarchs and nobles are adorned with all the luxury they can, through robe
wearing the best clothes of their wives or girlfriends, and quilts richest robes of the beds,
which are called encolchados.

As each procession passes, usually spend three or four hours in the street, corridors running,
which almost always tells a Nazarene singing an arrow.

To prevent and to draw public attention to each corridor, two or three Nazarenes ring the trumpets
with melancholy and prolonged stress. So, for instance, when evangelists are writing what
passes splints and some Jews are crooks behind making many grimaces and contortions and steal
their styles, evangelists, resigned and sad, then open your arms
and put on the cross.

The trumpets resound again to give the corridor ended.

Things are a certain delicacy and fine art inspired delicacy. So carrying the cross in litters,
big and black as polished ebony with gorgeous shots of silver, without Christ in it, which is supposed
resurrected and in heaven, from which hang seven broad green ribbons,
red and white colors of the three theological virtues.

End of each tape you grabbed a child or a group of children, representing all together very
nicely the seven sacraments of Holy Church.

Other children talares robes and winged cherubs on his shoulders carried the ark of the alliance,
as a reminder of the old law, before the Gospel and the law of grace.

In short, for me everything is so good, if not for the fear of being branded irrelevant and inappropriate
to dwell too much on descriptions of this place, continue telling
without getting tired and artistic delight as shown in Villalegre
in those four days.

Suffice it to note here that Friday, at dusk, the holy burial place in the that no longer seem
symbolic figures of the characters in the old law, there is only Nazarenes Cruz brothers, taking
each in his own hills and boasting that is heavy and large, and not
a few Roman soldiers and Jewish, converted and, in proof of which
are in Rosaries two separate hands and are praying devoutly.

There is, finally, many men and boys pious light the candles burial.

But the most solemn and touching procession is the Holy Saturday is
verified from TAS nine o'clock until noon.

It leaves only the image of the Virgin of Solitude, which is like the palladium of the town
and that is kept and venerated in the ancient temple which is there
at the other end of the new parish, at the top of the hill that dominates
the town, the Acropolis, as it were, and the left side of the duke's
castle, where this came with his retinue to fight the Moors riot border
and enter the lands of Granada.

That image is a masterpiece of Christian art at the time of its greatest flowering in Spain.
It is true that one can say that the sculptor did nothing but head and hands; pure thought and
heavenly and the environment by virtue of which action can become
thought.

But those hands and face are that admirable beauty. That face looks divine, combining in it
the expression of deep sorrow and humble in accordance with the will of the Almighty. Virgin's
eyes are beautiful and sweet tears the damping. On the cheeks of
image there are two or three tears like dew on roses.

In the rest of the image is not noticed or drawing a woman's body. Everything is covered a rich
and extensive velvet robe embroidered with gold.

The artist, representing the eternal feminine, the merger with the pain of the two excellences
of women as virgin and mother, it seems that fled from the corporeal and only wanted to provide
a visible to the spirit.

Trimmings and embroidery on the tunic of the Virgin are the handles of the seven swords that cross
the chest.

In the procession of Holy Saturday, all the characters of the Old Testament and the Jews and the
Roman soldiers fade and is eclipsed by the divine image of the Virgin.

Only Accompanying the clergy and the pious crowd with countless candles and lighted candles.

With
devotion and meditation walk the procession to the beaten track,
but just go back and again in his church, all the bells of the town
touch glory ringing loud; a very angry bull rope goes outside, and
the fans and capean deal in prison freedom is given to an inmate,
who plays Barabbas, and in several places by the way, where little
danger of killing anyone, Judas hanged two separate, or large rag
dolls, stuffed tow and crackers, against which the young men shot
dead with shotgun until the burning Judas giving many triquitracazos
and popping.

Thus ends with the joy of the Lord's resurrection the Easter holiday interesting.

XXXVII

Everything was upset that day in the lower house of the cacique. It gave people to different jobs
to prepare a great feast that was to take place the next day, Wednesday Ghost. The procession,
Preamble to the other, and should be on that Wednesday afternoon, was directed and financed
every year by Mr. Don Andrés Rubio, brother of the more Brotherhood important.

Were to go out in the procession three masterpieces of sculpture,
as heavy either them than to carry her through the streets needed
to be an army of penitents.

The first sculpture is the Lord of the Pollinita, Jesus riding on a humble animal and enter triumphantly
into Jerusalem.

The village, composed of large number of penitents, as Roman soldiers
and Jews, was to march front of that picture with palms and large,
leafy branches of olive. 

Then, preceded by all ensabanados, jumeones
encolchados and that could be had to Dinner out, the weight is huge
because the entire image consists of thirteen life-size figures natural,
and the table, something heavy and it will also cover adorned with
flowers, finest fruits from the fall have been preserved to this day
with the highest care, and a large and complicated bunch of candy,
which throws the rest of the smartest and ingenious confectioners.

After
the dinner, and also preceded by many people, had to leave the Garden
of Prayer, where Christ prays on his knees, an angel who wants to
be in the air, but that relies on the branches of an olive tree, offering
Christ the cup of bitterness, and the disciples lie on the ground
asleep.

After the procession, Don Andrés had to take the still life
through the window and give dinner to the apostles, the prophets,
the ancient biblical characters, the plebs Jerusalem, the Nazarenes
and the Roman garrison. Then on landing on the ground, the tiger can turn at once and reach the prey from
the side. Then he gives a quick blow with his paw on the neck of the prey. One blow is usually
enough to stun the prey and knock it down.

Sometimes the prey is so frightened when it first sees the tiger, that it does not try to face
the tiger with its horns at all. Instead, the prey stands trembling with terror, and lets the
tiger come right up to it from the side. Then the tiger gets up on his hind legs, places one
paw on the prey's shoulder, and with the other paw he gives a terrific blow on its neck.

But if the prey is not too frightened, and it struggles when the tiger is trying to strike
it, then the tiger uses a different method. I have a thousand things to tell you many sad
news from yesterday to today! It is useless to present to Mom. It would be very badly received.
But ... (Ring the ten on the clock on the mantelpiece). Ten. I'll talk. Will cold narcissist? What a
voice so hoarse it today! Sares ... All right. Egeneto.

But what a voice so hoarse!

- I do you mean, narcissistic, what those words mean convoluted? ...

Lying seems to be as concise language and in just four words spout
so things.

So the words are Greek and means "You are an angel came down from heaven to earth, took a gentle
body and you became Manolita. "

I suspect you are joking. How can they say so much just four words ...?

What is paraphrase, not translation? Then you will understand. But enough of paraphrase. I'm
not for them or for me to throw compliments.

I'm desperate.

So desperate I am, I am inclined to believe that I have not had to pretend disease, but actually
I'm sick. The doctor has believed and has left a prescription long, Dona Rita have read and
comply. The doctor will be nonsense ...

Oh, my God! What fun is this heavy? How narcissistic do not you answer? He answers the doctor,
who is with him, and says that to see that he's not so simple, I read your recipe, which after
well studied, Dona Rita has been under the base of that chimney clock. Let's see. (Manolita
seeks finds and reads the recipe.)

"Recipes: A nine o'clock, consommé
with fresh eggs, filet mignon, chaud froid of partridges, Marques
de Riscal wine, Vienna rolls, a thick custard that like both the little
patient, candy, coffee and half a glass of chartreuse to tone the
stomach.

Desktop a bit of chitchat with narcissistic by phone or closer. "

Have you ever seen more shameless? This is fun for me to cap removed. In sin I penance. The
general called the Greeks to the swindlers.

I did very poorly in confide in a Greek unknown. Only logical that this infamous trickery and
mockery. (Manolita go the phone, full of anger.)

Narcissistic, what
are you doing to me is an evil. I ran out of love. Hate to you.

The
circumstances are, however, very hard and rough and I have to check
my anger and even talk to you about important issues.

Mom says that
the Viscountess and many women are complicit and instigators of love
she did not dream. As they can do that with their mother, they do not need
their father any more. So the tiger then goes on his travels to distant parts.

As the cubs practice with their mother the different ways of catching and killing the prey,
she must provide them with many chances of doing so. It is then that she helps the cubs to
kill more animals than they can eat. That is why people give the tiger a bad name and call
him a "bloodthirsty" animal. It is not he at all, but the tigress mother. And she helps to
kill a large number of animals only at this time--when she must provide her cubs with the chance
of practicing their lessons. I come to tell you that forgive
me, because I love you. I want you to know: I'm sorry and I Having A fired die for you and I
can not live without you.

What could I do but brag Don Paco, tender, melt and forgive all to hear so sweet and passionate
phrases so pretty and rosy lips?

I did not know yet what to say or do, and as usually happens on such occasions, said quite
a few silly.

- I can hardly believe it - he said - do not fix it and in my old
age, do not think I can be Your grandfather and I want as you say.

Do you mean, perhaps, make fun of me and upset me trial? Do you offer flatter with the hope of a happiness
that I would not dare conceive in dreams, to kill and then vanishes?

- No, darling, I do not want to fade away your hope, but do it. I want to give you happiness if
you judge me to be happy on yours. If you do not despise me, if you'll excuse me, if I do not
think worthless, get married, but Dona Ines rave that I am not a nun, but you don Andrés withdraw
its favor, even if we make it impossible to stay in this town and
although we to go out there, perhaps to live miserably.

            Do not hesitate, if it
          were possible that Don
          Andres fell in love
          with me to the point of wanting to marry me, I despise him for love
of you, even if you were you a thousand times poorer than you are,
I sing the verse that says:

Better a tried fuss and some peppers
asaos not have your honor esaborío to Lao.

Don Paco, on hearing this, and could barely contain himself and hide
his emotion.

A delicious shiver stirred his veins, as if they run light and fire instead of blood. Nearly lie
to Juanita and kiss his feet, but still reported and said:

- I believe, believe in your sincerity of the moment. My modesty, however, leads me to fear maybe
you hallucinate, perhaps you fool yourself that you might regret
the way you take now.

You are so beautiful that you can covet as you fancy.

And Don Andrés no unsubscription is your honor like the song, is an intelligent, esteemed
and respected by All: better and much younger than me.

- It will be all you want, but to me you are the smartest, the youngest and most handsome.

Still, shielded by his humility, he tried to hide Don Paco was already
satisfied, had deposed their anger and their fears were dispelled.

Less seriously, smiling and between truly and ridicule, he said;

- I trust you, I know you speak from the heart. No, do not fool me think, but certainly you fool
yourself. And for more proof to the vehemence and firmness of love Juanita, then added:

- It's unlikely that you, if you don Andrés, as seems apparent, is very much in love with you,
you I despise and want and love me now, when before, you did not
have to don Andrés, was me whom he despised.

Why, do not know that I am a poor devil, "dependent" and He is powerful,
rich, respected and feared here, esteemed and favored by the government
and a Gentleman large cross with excellence and everything?

- What
I care about excellence?

To you and not the government should give him the Grand Cross, because all the good that is
done in this place is you who does.

He paused and continued with
a sweet smile, as if he suddenly has an idea he likes:

- This remedy
injustice I want, but you need before and I swear I proclaim for your
queen. The finest specimen of the tiger is the Royal Bengal tiger. Such a
tiger, when full grown, is sometimes seven feet long, without including the tail; the tail
is usually half as long as the body. The tigress is slightly smaller.

In height a Bengal tiger often measures three and a half feet from the shoulder to the ground;
so his head would be more than four feet from the ground. Hence, if you take his length into
account, you will understand that the tiger is really the largest feline or animal of the Cat
Tribe.

I do not think that you have often seen a really large tiger in the zoo. Most of the tigers
in a zoo were caught as cubs; that is, the mother or the father was shot by hunters, and the
cubs were captured alive.

Now, just think. If a human child were locked up in a room all his life, without any exercise,
then he would be very stunted and small, even when he had reached the age of a man. So a tiger
cub, brought up in a cage all its life, never grows to its proper size. For this reason most
of the tigers in a zoo are much smaller than those tigers that grow up in the jungle.

The most wonderful thing about the tiger is his strength; he is the strongest animal of the
Cat Tribe. That is proved by the way in which he carries his prey. If the prey be a deer or
a man, he seizes the prey in his jaws by the middle of the body--just as a cat seizes a mouse!
And the tiger carries such a prey in that manner to his den, which may be more than a mile away.

But a heavy animal, such as a cow, he carries in a different manner. Yes, a tiger carries away
a cow; he does not merely drag it along the ground, as a lion does. This is the way the tiger
carries a cow, after killing it:

He first seizes the cow in his jaws by the back of its neck. Then he rears up on his hind legs
and swings the cow over his shoulder on to his back--just as a man swings a loaded sack on
to his back. Then the tiger stands on all four legs again, and trots along with his burden.
Of course, he still holds the neck of the cow in his jaws, just as the man carrying the sack
holds the upper end of the sack in his hand.

I shall now finish with tigers by telling you three stories,--true stories, of course. From
these stories you will understand that tigers and tigresses sometimes have the same kind of
feelings that we have.

Both Tiger and Tigress Defend their Cubs

I have told you that in a tiger family, when the cubs are very young, they must be guarded
all the time by either their father or their mother. One day it happened that a tiger had killed
a bullock. As he could not carry it to his den, he first ate enough of the bullock to satisfy
his hunger. Then he came home to his den, and sent the tigress out to eat her share, while
he guarded their two cubs in the den.

But three English officers had gone hunting in the jungle, each of them on an elephant; and
it so happened that they came toward the tiger's den.

The three hunters saw the tiger and the two cubs he was guarding. 

Father Anselmo was far from being bad and being ignorant. I knew no little dogmatic theology and moral,
and had remarkable clearance and prodigious eloquence, but he was stubborn, persistent the
views that once accepted, and ignorant of worldly affairs. Doña Inés also I had sucked his brains
out. Doña Inés filled him with a veneration and love subtlety spiritual, which became for him
an oracle. He was the devoted affection which is filtered and school often in the heart of
the old virtuoso: love without desire and without defect; what up Plato calls himself shocked to
feel it, What is so subtle, so ethereal and as clean as semi-divine feeling that describes and
painted with bright features Count Baltasar Castiglione in the last golden pages of his Courtier.

Father
Anselm had never read this book and had not fallen or might fall
into that feeling sweet inclination, but without being conscious of
it revered like Dona Ines angel or saint.

Was blind to all faults and sins of her, and did not see or did not believe see in it but
virtues: prudence, charity, meditation and religious piety. For Father Anselmo was married Dona
Ines model and mothers and exemplary sampler distinguished ladies and learned. In everything
you said about Juanita said no other try to avoid or suppress the scandal and bad example that
the play was and giving.

Influenced by these ideas, had prepared the sermon preached that day and dealt with application
to the circumstances on the same subject he always liked to try:
on corruption of our century and ominous symptoms that are effective
alternatives and causes.

Because the lack of religion makes to collapse morality, as a building whose foundations are
undermined, while the excessive gift and careful body away to dapper the souls of all serious
meditation diabolically toward the temporal and perishable, and inflamed the hellish appetite
to possess and enjoy it. Hence the ambition, greed and lust, Satan network that we tend, bait and hook
that draws us that fishing and leads us to devour him. The disbelief and heresy arise from
the softness and luxury, and ambition and greed, they spread, they spread and infect everything.

The
father illustrated his doctrine with historical quotations. The Albigenses, who became Holy Sunday
with the help of Simon de Montfort, had fallen into the abominable heresy because it gave
the feasts, elegance and evil passions. A mischievous woman who had seduced Martin Luther guilt
that she try her Protestant half of Europe.

And the evil Anne Boleyn was the means that he used the devil to take over the English, who
were once fervent Catholics. Greed was, however, worse than lust, and that while every revolution
heretical or unholy began with sports, relaxation of customs affairs and was always the greed
that managed to triumph, making the revolution in Cocagne, on whose upper end put the goods
of the Church.

- Maybe - added the father - the honest and peaceful walk very confident now imagining that it
ended the era of revolutions, because the church is poor and has no assets that removed, but
oh, how sadly wrong!

A lack of church property shall be made available or get as high up the greasy pole, the assets of wealthy
individuals. And even fewer scruple to seize them, as they say, because the seizure (handy word
not to use another very hard cuadraría better) will not be sacrilegious.

Then the father spoke of socialism, refuting and trying to prove that each of his utopian dream
and delusion is insane.

According to him, there will always be rich and poor, and figuring and successful social revolution,
led by inescapable result that those who are now rich are poor, that some of the more clever
and bold poor become rich and the crowd of the poor are increasing in numbers and suffering
from abject poverty, because a large portion of the wealth will have been consumed or destroyed in
the strikes, riots and civil wars. However, if the established order is preserved and ensures
that nobody gets rich mocking the Penal Code, all work and decently managed, where grow the
wealth and welfare; and the rich will be richer and be more, and the poor are less poor and needy,
and the day will come back in time to come, in which the poor are better treated than the rich
now. But now and then there will be classes and social hierarchies, and it will just be respected,
because there are up in heaven.

Here recited much the father against the ferocious efforts are showing
so many people to leave of its kind and without sufficient merit raise:
the grocer, just because it is enriched, aims be Marquis, the usurer,
Duke, Sergeant, general, without going to war, and shameless wenches,
ladies and lords.

Against all these abuses spoke vehemently, or rather launched sparks and lightning, flowing at
length on luxury and expensive women's ills which it originated.

The little body of a girl stuck up and very dressed hive called Lucifer, whose honey sweetens
poison, and from where the bees and drones of sharp spines, that is a damn swarm of vices, sins
and foolishness.

In addition to shock with this class cause men to the holy places disturbing the peace of the spirits
and prevent its elevation, is spent to sustain this estate more than
honestly earned, accepted gifts from suitors and coax them money.

Letting go, then, for slope so slippery, the poor girls who get pestles are very easy to hustlers.
"Well understood this - said the father - the wise and glorious Queen Isabella the Catholic,
when shocked to see a festival that occurred in Segovia certain adventurous dressed in silk, and
banned the use of silk which were not noblemen and ricashembras, which was providence discreet
and moralistic. "

In short, Father Anselmo was good that day, uncensored censored vice to vice, and not appointed or
referred to anyone.

This is accomplished by the malicious envy of women, excited by deceit
by Dona Ines.

All Juanita made to dress up their insolent looks white. Consideration unlawful origin of the
girl came to corroborate the belief that it was sinful. Each which reminded himself there in
one of several rulings that hold as vulgar true transmission of the blame for the blood: like
father, like son, the goat its spots, but whoever inherits, not steal, the greyhound breed comes
to being Dartford and and the mother and daughter and the blanket and the blanket.

The two Johns did not sin by shrunken nor fearful, but just could
not resist shedding and formidable storm that dumped on them.

Apparently the mother was more affected. Juanita was not losing the serenity and repose. His pride
and the belief that no had committed a serious lack of sustained. The pain, however, and anger
at the undeserved affront bathed her cheeks turned crimson over. And down her vision, blurred
with eyelids and lashes curled and light in his eyes, that two poorly repressed tears moistened.

After the function matched mother and daughter to slip away unnoticed and rushed back home.

XVII

Juanita dropped sprawling in an armchair.

Juana walking, going to and returning strides in their living room, like a lioness in a cage.

-
You've seen - he exclaimed - more impudence!

Oops ... the mantesonas, the pu ... head nuts! For if Prohibition lasted even silk, which of
them would carry no contraband? Best knightly and ricashembras God gives us. Silk and silk were
very two daughters of the clerk, but "although the monkey dressed in silk, it is cute. " Are ugliest
night thunder. And where have drawn his nobility? Maybe we will not know they are daughters
of Frasquita, whom God has forgiven him. Cagarrache was the widow of Don Andrés mill when the tried
and he married the scribe. And why he married? To remedy this, because she had insider enough
money with a large poultry house, and even more with his ability to avian chickens. Although
going to the sly and not spend whistle, called the gringa. What a feeling in those fingers
executioners! To escape her as pliers entrecogía what I was groping in the poor animals, and left
dozens Aviados, without being in disgrace No operation. Then the barley and put Gordis and sold
very expensive. I ask the father Anselmo if trade is cruel ricashembras own.

Juanita soon recovered his momentary dejection, and said:

- Look,
Mom, do not speak of the daughters of the scribe.

Do not want bad.

If I looked brazen and scared, was pure dumb.

- Well, my dear, I do not know why they had to panic. In the minor is not repaired, because it
is so chiquituela and consumed, that looks like a Gusarapo, but most striking was good. Dressed
in red and so fat he looked like a huge tomato with legs. And then, what impudence! During the whole
Mass was her boyfriend at the edge of it, still a Jew, as he had appeared on the procession.
Good nobility is that of Pepito, the son of albardonero! Instead of market so expensive suit,
his father had to make a pack that could do with. Although it has become Granada degree in law,
as still as a donkey was braying except Latin and long the kicks accordance with international
law. But in the end, you're right. We should not complain about them. We despise them. The father
pulled the Anselmo is to blame for everything.

- Do not curse the father - said Juanita -. It is a blessed, holy mirror. Much of what he said
in the sermon was wise. And if committed in hype, I well know why. The Catholic Queen silk
ban undoubtedly because in his time things would be understood very differently than in the
day, and because the cost silk then a pretty penny and ruin the country. Anyway, I do not know
why the queen forbade silk. Perhaps it is not true prohibiting it. But if it is or is not, what
do I care? I do not complain of the queen or the cure. From whom do I complain is that liar
prude Dona Ines, who is the has armed against me all this gatuperio.
She will pay.

I swear to Christ who will pay!

And rising from his chair then went to his mother with eyes flashing, and making the cross to
cross himself, said solemnly:

- For this cross I swear: I will be avenged. She will remember me for all his disgusting life
or I have to delete the name I have.

- Yes, my dear - "said Juana
- vindictive, vengeful.

Nothing is more natural and reasonable, but without no evil thing. And above all, do not swear,
which is a mortal sin. Vengeful without oath; with rum and malice.

- Do not worry. I miss rum. I have to hide more and I will be more hypocrite than that indina.
Malicious intent is what I have not, my intention is always good.

At this point in his interesting discussion, both interlocutors heard terrible street din of
voices, whistles and careers.

They looked out the window and looked through the lattice. Barely had time to watch the world
go run over crowd of people, and a wild cow, tied a long, sturdy rope, which pulled fourteen or
fifteen young men of the most robust and agile. Other boys stung and enraged the cow, beaten
with the cookies and stinging pitaco behind with pita or scape.

No looking at Juanas followed what happened in the street, because most touching spectacle
suddenly offered to his eyes in the same room.

Don Paco appeared, whom the maid had opened the door with a big red ball in his arms. Soon
recognized in that ball to the eldest daughter of the clerk, who
had been faint and fat and black and blue bump on the forehead.

Cheeks and nose smeared brought in the yellow substance and sticky to the flies came. At first
he did not suspect such little substance but then they knew they were buds despachurradas.

In a bag, which the groom had a holiday, the Dona had Nicolasita, not broke nose because he
dropped them on the buds.

Rapt conversation with her boyfriend, who was at his side, with head cover as a hat and almost as
nice as her, and followed his father and his sister, had been everyone
in the square, where Johnny had squandered holiday sweets.

There were completely forgotten that part of the program of celebrations and festivities that
celebrating the Saint's day, a bull rope, which was then cow, as stated above.

Passing a group down the street where both John lived, they suddenly heard the commotion and saw
the throng of fleeing from the cow, and even then did not remember the danger he had exposed.

The
clerk, without thinking about their daughters, with tails and all, climbed up the bars of
a grating and were able to escape. The younger sister, who was very slight, perhaps because so
mean and lean meats, also climbed to another gate, which looked like a monkey.

The groom was very gentlemanly and wanted to imitate Edgardo, the hero of the novel by Walter Scott,
Lucia di Lammermoor, which he had read, but the cow did not understand the heroism and threw him the
floor, giving a shove to the forehead. Fortunately, the cow did not hurt him any attention,
because only his attention and attracted him this round, red mass that ran ahead of her long skirts
waving. Since the street was covered gayomba and sedges and many drops of wax that had fallen
to the procession, the floor slippery too. It is not therefore surprising that Mrs. Nicolasita slip
and give in the ground with snouts.

Thanks to two pounds of buds that came between his face and stones will not Trunk the poor.
Only be made on the forehead above the bump.

His terror was immense and causes from her swoon. There, in his feverish imagination, seemed
to feel the horn penetrated treacherously in its most delicate meats,
and on the one hand, and on the other, and as the terror, and before
Faint ensued gave the tantrum, waving the red skirt and called the
bull, or say the cow, which was coming.

The strength of the young men stopped pulling the rope prevented had that day a disaster and that
the function ends in tragedy.

Don Paco, who came by to visit his friends, seeing faint Nicolasita
Dona, lifted her in his arms and took refuge in their house.

When both found out what happened, forgetting the anger, met with
godly laws of hospitality.

They return to their dismay that the victim of the cow, using their noses very strong vinegar,
with the same watery vinegar put you in the bump pads and blindfolded him with a white handkerchief,
so that Mrs. Nicolasita like a Cupid. And Finally, he washed his face and removed the crust and
Churrete buds.

Don Paco aided in all this to the two charitable women.

The clerk, Jimmy and sister recovered from the shock and came to the door to call Dona Nicolasita,
which, also restored, went in search of them, without giving occasion no time to enter.

Perhaps it might be thought that this precipitation in the game and not get into the house the
other had been of pure embarrassment, but as Mrs. Nicolasita not thanked but a way very dry,
scaly Joan and Jane were both attributed it to disdain and suspicion stupid rebates and contaminated
in the treatment of them.

More so than ever amostazada Juana la Larga, taking advantage of a time when Juanita had gone
to his room, talked to Don Paco in this way:

- Mr Don Paco, you will have seen plenty of the shame that we have done. Your daughter, my lady
Dona Ines, is to blame for everything. You figure you will have cajoled, and that we want
to suck and lick his parneses. Sick you know that's not true.

My daughter accepted the court dress and the odd gift, but we have
paid, if not far, in the right.

The coat that you wear silk is worth putting my daughter has worn today and that has caused
the fuss. We love you, as good friends, but not so much that we sacrifice ourselves for you,
if we will continue to receive for a loss, and to be able to drive us there. A lot of fun
Juanita the conversation about you, but I do not want conversation that leads nowhere and that we
can very expensive. So, I say with sorrow, and without thought of offending, transpose you
and not again appear in this house, at least until circumstances change, it is change someday,
and if not modified, you seem not ever.

Don Paco is pricked and was stunned to hear this speech and he failed to give an answer. Something
stuttered, but the resolute Juana gave him no word. He pushed the door and poured into the
streets rather than return her daughter.

XVIII

Don Paco bewildered with the events of that day, and more so with the removal of just be subject,
not knowing which way to go or what to think, and mechanically went home to meditate and do self-examination.
The first thing he noticed was that he had very clean. It was no crime, but could pass for extravagance,
who was in love that girl could be his granddaughter. Having gone home every night for some
weeks just seemed careless and worthy of censure. Juanita was, successively and sometimes
simultaneously, different concepts, as if at the bottom of it would be something mysterious and
indecipherable. He acknowledged that plenty of Juanita, if you had not given pumpkins, it was
because he had not declared in order, but call your grandfather's jokes and the skill that
she used for him to not speak to the ear and avoid being alone with him, looked tired clear
he did not want to admit to a boyfriend or lover. However, Would this calculation or ladino
woman's instinct to better captivate or entertain with vague hope? Don Paco also remembered the whispers
of Juanita and put Antonuelo jealous.

If she would be charmed by Antonuelo, and considering that a boyfriend was not convenient, think
in plants and decided to order by Don Paco, as the best match and convenience? If you hesitate it between
his own taste and what your mother, no doubt advised him? Whatever it was, Don Paco was stamped
on the fabric of the trial the image of Juanita, and each time it
seemed most beautiful and desirable.

Felt too well that neither her mother nor she had ever tried to thrive at their expense in a sinful
and unlawful. Maybe the mother wanted him to son. What is the daughter until then had shown no wish,
much less seek to lover or for a husband. He had done all the progress. Fault was all this
furor raised against the two women, which he had no doubt that Dona
Ines was promoter.

Considered then Don Paco, and it flattered him and made him very plump, Juanita, since not
love him, was delighted with his conversation, I was laughing the jokes, he applauded the shrewd,
and hear him speak, was very attentive and aware of your lips.
In that house, where he had been thrown, but had not been honest
and friendly favors in payment of which, and went by it was, the two
women had just received a grievance gory, for which he believed required
to find satisfaction. Exalted by these thoughts, Don Paco decided
to go see her daughter, honestly and loyalty to explain what had past
and demand an accounting of their malignant behavior.

Of great value
had to be coated to dare to take that step. Doña Inés, with its severity
and stiffness, he almost struck fear but shame overcame him, did his
best to remove him himself, and went, with all the vigor he could
collect and accumulate in your mind, to house Mrs. Dona Ines Lopez
Roldan, who knew he would find one at the time for siesta.

Home of
Dona Ines then ate at two in the afternoon. Don Alvaro, when he was
not in the field, went to bed at once, and as he ate and drank enough
of the exquisite wine grows there, and that is better than Jerez,
with forgiveness is said, tended in his bed and was snoring until
four or five in the afternoon.

CHAPTER X

The Lion

I shall now tell you about other felines or animals of the Cat Tribe. The lion looks the grandest
of all such animals--I suppose just because he has a mane.

Most lions live in Africa. There are some lions in Arabia and Persia, which are the two countries
in Asia nearest to Africa. A few lions are also found in a jungle on the west side of India.
These lions in the countries of Asia are not as big as the African lion.

Then there is also a species of lion in America, though he has no mane. He is called the puma;
but people in the Western states often call him a cougar or mountain lion.

The puma is found chiefly in North America; he is also found in Central and South America,
but not so often.

In the United States the puma lives mostly in the mountains of the Far West. He is very fond
of deer flesh; and as there are still plenty of deer in the forest reserves in the Far West,
the puma has managed to survive there. But in the Middle West, where there are fewer deer,
there are hardly any pumas.

The puma is seldom able to attack cattle. But when pressed by hunger in the winter, he sometimes
descends from the mountains to the plains below, and tries at least to steal sheep from the farms.

The puma usually avoids men, especially as the men there often carry guns. But still, when
made desperate by hunger, the puma has even been known to attack a man on a lonely farm.

In size this American lion, like the lions that live in Asia, is much smaller than the African
lion. The African lion is the finest specimen of a lion. So I shall describe the African lion
in particular.

The African lion grows to be about three feet six inches high at the shoulders; but his big
head stands up quite a foot higher, and makes him look very imposing. His body, without the
tail, is about five and a half to six feet long. So the African lion is not quite so long as
the Bengal tiger. Still, the lion is a splendid specimen of the Cat Tribe. In the
edge of the canals through which flowed with a pleasant murmur of the path next to fresh water and
clear, had violets and a thousand wild flowers that gave early smell delicious. Apple and other fruits
were also in bloom. And the new grass on the ground and the tender shoots in poplars and other
trees as enamelled all merry and bright greens. The birds singing, the rising sun gilded with a bright
glow and the highest peaks of the mountains, and a slight breeze stirred the grass and bent
them to whisper the tall grass.

Don Paco walked so astounded in their evil and dark thoughts that any of this repaired.

Soon to come out of the orchards and olive groves and vineyards found, but he fled from men,
not wanting to see anyone or anybody seeing him, and took to the less frequented sidewalks, heading
for the rocky mountains, where the shortage of topsoil does not allow culture, where people
and where there is bare soil or covered only in parts of weed and
rough thickets of gorse bitter, fragrant thyme and olive trees vile,
chaparral and gall.

Although wearied him something his headlong rush, don Paco did not
stop to rest, sitting on a rock, until he was assured that in complete
solitude, almost in the wilderness without anyone seeing him, hear
him and disturb him.

Just sat down, it seems that the horrible memories that had driven from the town, which was chasing
and had been something behind, overtook him and began to itch and bite you again. Angrily recalled
the servile dependency with the interest and gratitude I had linked to the cacique, the yoke
imposed on it unnatural daughter, disdain Juanita had been squandered and the favors with
which Don Andres gave.

Thought then derision that would be subjected to by his countrymen when they were informed of
the was passing in his soul, and rose in haste to flee further and more elusive places.

Almost run down by a steep slope and came to meet, after half an hour running in a narrow canyon
that stretches between two hills forming decline. Was hopping by a stream and playing it to crash
into the rocks. The stream, to reach plain site and deeper, it expands in haven surrounded
by green cattails and reeds.

Some larches and an abundance of mimbrones shaded and beautified the place lush oleanders covered
with red flowers, and not a few thorns and wild rose hips, full of white and red musk.

Invited to the site so peaceful rest, and invited to drink the clean water of the pool, which quiet
please, curling a little, gave away the gentle flow or stagnant water was not and without
renewal.

The sun had already risen above the horizon and approached the zenith, spread hot and light on the
earth, and Don Paco, seeking shade, came to sit on a bank and began
to watch the water before drinking.

In the midst of his contemplation, he felt some anxiety and escarabajeo in your stomach, because
it was about twenty hours he had not eaten, had traveled far and
had not slept at all.

In sum, it must be confessed, Don Paco was hungry.

Looked around as if he were to commit a crime, very suspicious that someone might him, and
now convinced that his loneliness could not be higher, reached into his saddlebags and pulled
a white donut here and a bundle wrapped, tightly wrapped in an old number of the Fair.

What was in this envelope? The historian should not hide anything. In the wrap it deployed
Don Paco half a dozen beautiful pieces of pork loin, thick as a fist of Juana la Larga which
had marinated and fried, of the dressing with oregano, pepper ground
cumin and whatnot other spices, and heated in butter itself between
preserved in earthenware jars, and drawn butter and cold cuts, beguiling
creatures desperate and bereaved and say: comedme!

God did not, despite everything that Don Paco find them for bad. Although he jumped Tears overcame
appetite. Ganas also had, in desperation, that the lean poison return it, but finally, he ate
two and also the donut.

There was a time when he missed the wine and regretted not having
brought the boot.

Then he resigned and drank water, lowering his mouth to the surface of the pool.

Finally, as was exhausted from walking, watching and rage, and felt heat on the outside the sun
and heat the interior of the donut back and, despite his enormous grief, was overcome by sleep
and deep sleep comforted nap, during which their misfortunes and sorrows would say that were
immersed in that stream as if it was the Lethe.

XXX

Don Paco When he awoke from its long sleep, the sun is inclined towards
the West, the day was expiring.

The hesitation which had haunted Don Paco returned to haunt him more strongly The more time
passed.

His escape from the place he thought, not unreasonably, that must have been noticed by all and
look in amazement. He, who held many offices, would have missed in
many ways.

He figured that since there had asked permission to anyone, and as his unusual disappearance
lacking because he confessed all his compatriots would try to find the cause and would ultimately
amounts to an act of desperation or despair.

No one would regret yes he his flight back to the place, but again, compassion is inevitably
transformed in mockery and derision.

Do not be a single subject that sarcastically asked him why he had gone to make the wilderness
and why he left so soon, sorry for being a hermit. And they suspected, and no doubt which some suspect,
who had wanted to commit suicide, it would take to laugh suicide and attribute to fear that
this was not done.

He imagined that, back where I could not endure his new situation,
because he be contained they taunted him when he looked upon his face.

If it was, say, because here was something I could not stand, why again now, resign and hold?

Don
Andrés, mostly, I despise and I escarnecería, back in his mind, calculating that the leak had
been at Juanita's kisses and now becoming very resigned to take with patience and to see them
give back.

Jennie is in turn had a very distressed for the moment, full of remorse
because was or would be reason or cause of his death and very inclined
to shed tears at the memory him or his unknown grave, if she knew
he was buried and where and was not far; but if I saw him again Juanita
happy ever after, and in the streets of Villalegre, obtaining their
ordinary tasks, and in the gathering of courting Dona Ines Dona Agustina,
Juanita I would by the most vile and wretched of the world.

Juanita would ridicule him, and Don Paco shudder to think only of the possibility of such vilification.

It
was, however, very hard won and killed without just to make people take you seriously, you sorry
kid you not.

There were times that if Don Paco had had a gun, perhaps, contrary to all their religious precepts
and philosophies all healthy, had been shot, but Fortunately, Don
Paco spent no firearms and had no gun or shotgun crazy trip that I
was doing, haunted by jealousy as by Orestes the Furies.

Once he came to perch on top of a steep rock, rush from there head and made an omelet. But if
it was not dead and only break point an arm, a leg or two, do not you hurt a lot, and add pain
to stay alive physical pain he had wanted to moral freedom?

Bitterly ruminating all this, walked Don Paco without repairing the road leading up he was surprised
the night, dark as pitch. Neither moon nor stars were seen in the sky covered with thick clouds. It
was raining hard, and thunder and lightning.

Our pilgrim noted with regret that he was made a soup, and feared death, he longed and disgusted
at the same time, moisture could occur by brandishing, instead of
a scythe rheumatism and pneumonia.

In the light of lightning discovered that it had reached an extensive naval, between the peaks
two nearby hills. Nava was in the much hay, grass and plenty of intricate stretches bushes, which
stumbled, or high grass coming up to her thighs, because there was no way or because he had
lost.

Suddenly he heard mooing, and the glow fleeting glimpse of lightning
believed a large shed or shed, under which moved lowing packages,
which were undoubtedly bulls, oxen, calves and cows.

- Man of the
devil - said a hoarse voice - what do you come here at this time and
with this storm so strong?

Don Paco, hiding place where he was and without stating his name, said as they went was lost,
not knowing where he was and sought shelter in which to spend the night.

The herdsman, who was pious, full of compassion for the sad voice of Don Paco, left under the shed,
came to him, took him by the hand and served as a guide.

So were both good rodeo and came to a hut quite capable, where, fireside
and around a large fireplace that had little to envy to the Dona Ines,
but lacked coat of arms, there were two shepherds, old already, and
a boy of ten or twelve years that must guide the son of Don Paco.

At home a mountain of wood burning, with which Don Paco heat could dry your clothes, because offered
him, and he accepted, a bench to sit by the fire.

Away from it, some embers and a trivet is a pot appeared, exhaling through broken and leaky lid thick
and fragrant vapors, do not know what a restaurant, which occurred
in the face of Don Paco feel very welcome, because with so much walking
you foot had fallen to lunch.

It was what was in the pot a fat and bean stew tender, with slices of bacon and spicy cornetillas
had to do so succulent and tasty.

Pastors and friend had given her roof where shelter from the rain
and spend the night also offered his rustic dinner.

Tino blush the cheeks of Don Paco going to accept it, but it was not so rude or so abstinent
not accept it, the grateful and still take advantage of it, competing
in appetite with the drovers.

Also inadvertently embarrassed him by another style with the best of openness. To him, who was
hiding and lied, and told him what he had to tell about their lives and their sets of fortune
and the events of the small farmhouse, not far from there, that were natural. Weighted also the
ferocity of the bull that they cared, they complained of poor reputation and still had predicted
that the end had to make their way to the magnificent marina Madrid, which compete with those of Miura
Veragua and killing horses in abundance and putting fist in the brave hearts and Frascuelo Lagartijo.

After
dinner and conversation, all went to bed on two separate piles of
dry grass and slept like a patriarchs.

Don Paco woke up at daybreak imitation of that house. Entailed, for muddle through, it would
Córdoba, in this case the Cattle told him the way should continue.

Don Paco said goodbye showing grateful, and soon left the naval, marching hurry along the path
he had indicated.

Alone again with himself, the dark thoughts resurfaced from the depths
of his soul and come back to haunt.

As he pondered a lot, studying and sank into the abyss of his own conscience, sought explain the
phenomenon that it was being presented. Then thought he heard he late, until he is old, he had
spent employed and living life and had lacked, perhaps for joy, relief
and perfect beauties wander and pretend put them in the eyes of the
soul, and appeal of your desire.

All had been his aspiration hitherto modest, prosaic and affordable peacefully, but Juanita had
been in poor disturb her quiet time and sting his fantasy to soar to very high regions where,
although there was more light, there was also his soul pacific storms and only used to unwind
just could suffer.

In short, Don Paco came to believe that the late appearance of the ideal, and its almost dead youth,
and the posthumous birth of aspirations that only she should be encouraged, it was what brought
him so foolish, so unhappy and so crazy. Return to place in that state mood, with less excuse
to become that which he had to leave, he would certainly object of
scorn of all his friends known as fails to make the atrocity of killing
two or three, and he was soft condition, was considered incapable
of doing.

Moreover, and while Villalegre stand, he judged it would be useless and not worth all that
or to the secretary at City Hall, or to don Andrés counselor or to aide clerk, or to intern
Peperris lawyers.

In consequence of these non-articulated speech, decided at the end: he decided to banish always
in their homeland and go to other towns or cities in search of rest and better fortune.

Only then will be cured of their love for Juanita naughty and unworthy, to walk and walk sign
it, instead of going through the roof or swim through the ether, and without killing and without
killing anyone but still useful to others, be again respected and
beloved by the people.

Cattle Since he had shown the way to go to Cordoba, Don Paco, less agitated the previous day,
continued in that direction, because there was no way.

The narrow paths were many, and he took them at random, just trying to sink the view of every
human being because even I was ashamed of being seen.

Pray walk, sometimes stopping to rest, he spent the whole day and got his second night of wandering.
I did not know where he was, but thought it aroused in him a vague recollection of those sites.
It was a long meadow or curb, where he was to be plenty of rabbits
and hares.

The ground was broken and covered with bushes and scrub. Only here and there towered some pines,
beeches and oaks.

Soon the darkness enveloped everything. Although it was not raining, it was very cloudy, and
he distinguished confused objects. The silence was profound. The only break from time to time,
such which gentle gust of wind stirred the leaves, or a hare jumping or crossing running through
the bushes.

I do not know how to recognize or acknowledge Don Paco believed that at that time was closer Villalegre,
which was less than two miles away, in a preserve owned by Don Andrew Andrew and where Don used
to come to hunt.

It said more on this idea suddenly saw a dim light shone at a distance
darkness, as often happens when children in fairy tales are lost in
a forest.

Don Paco was brave and not tended, not be faithless, to be suspicious and fearful frequent appearances
of ruins, of souls of this world or other supernatural beings. On that occasion, however, had
his little scared, but I won and walked straight solved and the light
to see what it was.

Was founded fear in acknowledging that the light left the house of the old guard Box, who had
died the day before the departure of Don Paco de Villalegre, and there was little Don Andres would
probably immediately appointed another guard to where there was hardly
anything to save.

The box, according to Don Paco, had to be deserted. Who was on light and was in the box? Would
the lost soul of the old guard, who was reputed to have been more than mischievous in his youth
and even outlaw pardons?

Don Paco plucked up courage and went to find out, happy to run into an adventure that will distract
their misfortunes.

XXXI

Quietly, Don Paco came to the box and saw that the door was bolted he had inside. The light was
a small ventanucho, where instead of glass had drawing a dirty rag to guard against rain and
cold. With the clog cloth could not see the objects inside, but Don Paco approached and noticed
the cloth three or four holes. Put his eye to the nearest, which was quite capable, and what
he saw there, before reflecting and explain, filled with fright.

He imagined he saw Lucifer in person although Andalusian peasant dress with calanes hat, coat,
chaps and gaiters.

The face and black dress was almost motionless, terrible and huge wide mouth and nose full
of warts and a parrot's beak. Don Paco is reassured, however, to recognize that this was a
cover which put the Jews in the processions of Villalegre.

The masked man was silent and sat on a chair, leaning his elbows on
an old and dirty deal table.

In another chair was opposite another person, who recognized the point Don Paco Don Ramon Murcia
of the grocer, the richest man after Don Andrés, the most outrageous talker that then existed
on our planet.

Don Ramon was a babe, old and skinny, but I had a lot of spirit and spunk and is not fearfulness
barely.

Don Paco noticed that his hands were tied with a string on the back, and had concluded that taken
there and held him by violence.

Soon the words of the shopkeeper Murcia, so lavish of them, confirmed
the deduction of Don Paco.

- Male or demon - he said - whoever you
are, take pity on me and torment me not unfruitful.

How could I imagine, to come back this afternoon from my village to village, which extends no more
than a quarter of a league, which was to run into you and your partner,
ambushed among Hondón willow Brook, and you had to bring me by force
to this place?

I did not suspect that would hijackers in the day, and walked very
safe.

Convinced, man, the gain you had to do and have done. Do not try now to make more profit. Greed
bursts the bag. I will kill, but you it will stick.

The masked man persisted in his silence about the club and only responded
with a snore, sort of interjection that the land is used. Don Ramon
continued:

- I fail to explain to me where you came to find out that
I just sold my best came to Jerez and that she wore twelve thousand
pieces in his pocket. But after all, already have twelve thousand.
Why do not you contentáis? Being worth that traíais horn inkwell prepared
me you did write to my wife to turn over two thousand dollars if you
do not want I'll be damned.

- And I will hang them and dismember
them and not give in - said the masked voice veiled and strange.

-
Well, you can hang and quartered and without following moliéndome,
because my wife, And go if I know!, Rather than give the money to
give my life and that of all relatives, but we want and then we cry
her eyes out. Hey, have you seen him tragedy Guzmán el Bueno?

The
masked man did not say yes or no, merely to give another snoring.
Don Ramon continued:

- For Guzmán el Bueno, not to deliver to Tarifa,
the Moors sent a beheading knife his beloved son. The money is the
rate my wife, not delivered but you slaughter me. Will not do either,
throwing with the tripped this Guzmán el Bueno, is wasteful to send
you the knife, even the worst of the kitchen. And ye shall have them
without she sends him to open up a cattery in the gut. But let's be
reasonable: what are you going to get with that? Have mercy on me.
Look also for you and not be reckless. And two hours will My wife
will be missed, and even before receiving the letter that has your
partner, and I do not know how or who put in their hand, be it an
armed revolution in the place, will hit the alarm, and the couple
of the Civil Guard and many raised my walk and looking for me. Do
not tempt God more. Set me free. Let me go on my mule and I will pay
if you want wait for God to bless you.

The masked man did not answer,
but giving more snoring.

- Do not you hear that I will pay? About
twelve thousand pieces that you and your partner you have shared,
I can give you another eight thousand if you let me free.

- How?
- Then the masked man said -. Where are you hiding those eight thousand
reais?

- Do not be silly, my son, do not be silly. Where do you want
to take them? I had no more than what you have taken, but I have a
secure means to reward your good deed.

- So what?

Don Ramón then
hesitated. I shall now tell you two stories about that.

CHAPTER XII

The Lion a Noble Animal

Androcles and the Lion

Many, many years ago, the Romans ruled a large part of the world; for they were a great nation.
Their territories included the north of Africa. A rich Roman, who lived there, had many slaves.
One of his slaves was called Androcles (An´ dr[=o] cl[=e]z). The Roman treated Androcles very
cruelly. So Androcles ran away from him.

But the Roman sent out many soldiers to capture Androcles. So after hiding in many places,
Androcles was at last compelled to flee into wild regions, where there were few inhabitants.
As the soldiers followed him even there, he had to go still farther into the interior of the
country, till he came to the jungle. There he lived by eating fruits.

One day, toward evening, he was sitting on the ground, when suddenly he saw a lion before him.
Poor Androcles gave himself up for lost, as he had no weapon with him with which even to try
to fight the lion. He knew it was useless to try to run away, as the lion could catch him with
a couple of bounds. So he thought that his only chance was to sit quite still, for then the
lion might go away.

But the lion looked at him, and then came toward him. The animal did not rush toward him or
leap. Instead, the lion just walked toward Androcles.

That was strange, Androcles thought. The lion came nearer and nearer--and then Androcles noticed
that the lion walked in a peculiar manner. That puzzled Androcles. But he sat quite still,
hoping that the lion would yet go away.

But instead the lion came right up to him. Now he would be eaten up, poor Androcles thought.

Then a wonderful thing happened. Instead of eating him, the lion held out a paw toward him.
Then Androcles understood.

He looked at the lion's paw closely. He saw that the paw was swollen. Yes, that is why the
lion had been limping.

Androcles took the paw in his hands and examined it. On the under side he found a large thorn
embedded deep in the flesh. It must have been there for several days, and must have caused
the lion intense pain.

Androcles pulled out the thorn carefully; then he squeezed down the swelling. That relieved
the lion's pain.

Immediately the lion showed his gratitude. He wagged his tail, fawned on Androcles, and gambolled
around him playfully like a dog. He could not do more to show his feelings.

After a time the lion went away to the jungle.

A year passed. Androcles still lived in hiding. Then at last he was captured by the soldiers,
and brought before the judge.

It used to be the law in those days to condemn runaway slaves to death. Also, it used to be
the custom to put to death Christians and condemned slaves by casting them to lions.

So one afternoon all the Romans in that place were gathered to make a holiday. The fact that Joseph did used to be
the more comical of the peasants, who looked scared to see pretty girls on the balconies, and it
covered his eyes to see, and fled doing contortions and whining.

Must be confessed he did very well the bishop to prohibit the appearance of this figure, since
it is precisely what we have and not exaggerate the niceties and pretend jokes chaste Joseph.
However it may be, the point can be ignored because it is not the
essential in this story.

It is essential that Juanita had to go alone without her mother almost
two whole days and had to wait until ten o'clock the night of Holy
Wednesday to talk to his mother with rest.

Juanita's why I quoted Don Paco at her house for half an hour later, at ten and a half.

Now it is I refer here, without further digressions, memorable cases
speaking Juanita until he reached that time.

XXXVIII

Don Andrés Rubio, amid the din and disorder in his house was quiet without mixed in anything. Dependents
and servants, with Juana hacendosísima head took care of everything
and were trying to strife to come out with greater splendor.

As the
house was so spacious that but for its simple and lack of ornamentation
rustiquez architectural, could pass through the palace, Sir Andrew,
who took refuge in their rooms the floor principal, was subtracted
to the noise, and, as I indicated earlier, was quiet. But the lion had not forgotten him.

Who says that animals have no memory? This lion had a memory! He carried in his memory the
gratitude of his heart for the pain that Androcles had relieved. Although Androcles was now
dressed differently--in fact, most of his clothes had been stripped from him--the moment the
lion had drawn near enough to him, he had recognized Androcles as his old friend and benefactor
of the jungle.

Famished as he was, and furious at being kept without food, the lion would gladly suffer the
pangs of hunger rather than injure a hair of his friend's head. Instead, the lion fawned on
him, then lay down before him like a lamb.

Then something melted in the cruel Romans' hearts; perhaps they realized that there was some
Great Power beyond them, who had inspired a raging beast of the jungle to be as gentle as a lamb.

The Romans asked Androcles to explain this marvel. He told the story of his adventure with
that lion in the jungle--just as I have told it to you.

Then Androcles was pardoned, and given his freedom, in memory of this great wonder.

My dear children, this story has a special meaning for us. We are told that if we cast our
bread upon the waters, it shall be returned to us. That means that if we do an act of kindness,
we shall have our reward. Androcles did an act of kindness to the lion in the jungle. In return
Androcles was given back his life in the arena.

The Lady and the Lioness

I shall close this chapter by telling you another true story. It happened quite recently, in
America. In a zoo there was a lioness. She had two little cubs. She was very fond of them,
and she used to lick them with her tongue many times every day to keep them clean. They used
to trot around her and scramble over her, then lie down beside her, one on each side, to have
another cleaning with her tongue.

One day the lioness and her two cubs were lying like that quite close to the bars of the cage.
One of the visitors there happened to be a man who had an umbrella. Very foolishly he poked
one of the cubs with the umbrella. He did not mean to hurt the cub; I suppose he only wanted
to feel it. But still it was very foolish to poke the cub with the umbrella.

In an instant the lioness jumped up with an angry roar, and thrust out her paw between the
bars. Luckily for the man, she could not quite reach his arm; otherwise she would have dragged
him to the bars of the cage and killed him instantly. Instead, she could only reach the umbrella.
So she seized the umbrella, and wreaked her vengeance on it. She smashed it to a thousand bits.
The man, of course, ran away.

Then gradually the lioness quieted down. She lay down as before in front of the bars, with
the cubs beside her, one on each side. Now and again she gave them an affectionate lick with
her tongue, first one, then the other. That helped to sooth her feelings somewhat. Still, as
you may well understand, she was bitter at heart at the foolishness of some people.

Now it so happened that a lady had observed the whole incident. She had been standing all the
time in front of the cage, a few yards away. And this lady had two little girls with her, one
four years old, and the other six years old.

You may be sure that the lioness saw the lady and the two little children. After a time the
lady came a little nearer to the cage, the two little girls standing beside her, one on each
side. The lady tried to catch the lioness's eye. Presently their eyes met. While the lioness
was still looking at her, the lady patted her two little girls on the cheek. 

In short, Don Paco fought against feeling sick, but proposed no-drop the company he had formed a very
vague, it was also proposed to proceed as caution and be as sly I could, but these businesses
did not happen as in the City business, and being crafty was not his forte.

Thus discoursing, Don Paco spent reviewing his linen. He saw only had half a dozen quite spoiled
shirts and many darned. And this was very little to him, person of extreme cleanliness, that
rare thing in a small place!, put on clean three times a week justificadísimo was decided that the
order that might make him a half dozen new shirts, he did badly needed, "Who had to make them
better than Juanita, who was the seamstress Villalegre more skillful? And who was to cut better than
his mother, who, as that with the end of the stick on the left and palette in his right hand
was an inspired woman with scissors in hand and with any fabric stretched across the table and marked
as artistically in pencil or tailor's chalk?

The next day, determined and Don Paco, came early in the morning to the home of Juana la Larga,
and we he ordered six beautiful shirts with cuffs and chest madapolán wire, adjusting to thirty
reais each. To make a will and excite the zeal of the two Joans, it took Don Paco, wrapped in
a handkerchief and no laymen would see what he was carrying a basket filled with strawberries,
fruit very rarely in place, and most sumptuously pulled further out of his pocket the loose coat
that used to wear every day, no less than three exquisite chocolate buns Dona Ines used to do at home,
and of which his father had bought a dozen rolls four ounces each.

Juana la Larga, who was very greedy and very fond of the gift, accepted this with gratitude and
pleasure, but I was not only long body, but it was also estimate, and if it were true, mental sense
of smell, the smell, and pulled his point intentions Don Paco brought and which had already
suspected something.

IX

The saying goes, that honor and profit do not fit in a bag, but Juana la Larga, about being honest
honesty bordering on austerity in order to erase the bad impression of his errors youth was also
a midwife full discretion and opinion, and he knew the adage mentioned often wrong. For her,
in case he had just introduced, instead of not fitting in a sack,
the benefit could not be without honor, and honor had to produce naturally
profit.

If Juanita camelar left at random, was exposed to derail his reputation and being the target of
the fiercest always grumbling and lose hope of finding a good husband. And all this for a few trinkets
and seedy fiddle. While that if Juanita was right to be rigid without upsetting and scaring the
suitor, but without giving Please not the least of importance before the priest in the church
give the passport to favors, making acts of duty and justice charges, likely it was that sick
Don Paco emberrenchinase to the point that entered the ring, breaking all the tissue difficulties
that the ring verifications Dona Ines and others, and raising to be Juanita Mrs. legitimately
most important character of the place, after Don Andrés Rubio the
chief.

With these thoughts in mind, to pair with remarkable skill, and developing the film I was rolled in
a wheelbarrow, took Juana to Don Paco appropriate action. Was with it sweeter than a arropía, and
although he said he had come to his house to prove the first shirt, because when I was half done or
basting send it to the test invited him to some nights, nine to eleven, when he had nothing better
to do, come, I did want a get-together at his house because she and Juanita liked to bed early,
and although they were almost always alone, watched until midnight.

Juanita sewed or embroidered, but as this is done with his hands, his tongue was prompt and
talked more than a parrot.

- I - added Juana la Larga - do not sew or board at night, because I have lost sight, and so
I hand over hand or step to me rosary beads and prayer. If you are ever bad mood, we can throw
together four or five hands tute, I know that you like.

I like too, but my bad luck and my limited means would not allow me to play more that real per
game. And yet, if given a very bad, you can lose twenty or thirty real one night, who does
not like things.

Already includes Don Paco accepted the invitation and was home of Juana gathering, at first from
time to time, after a short time, every night.

Tute almost always played and lost. Their losses could be assessed, a night with another in
a quarter day. Everything, no However, it was Don Paco well spent.

The shirts were soon completed and Don Paco was very pleased. In life there others as best you
sit down.

Would not become more beautiful the most reputable haberdasher in Paris. The glossy fronts were
not a wrinkle, the necks were straight, the diplomatic, very nice and cuffs and the buttons
in the day, style, Juana gave him, in return for the many gifts that he received a beautiful
pair of silver-gilt buttons that market in the Murciano shop, well
stocked store, where they say there, as was to God created and everything
you can imagine, build, weave and make human industry: cards, matches,
silk, wool and cotton, spices, cheese, chickpeas and beans, sesame,
anise and other seeds.

It was almost the only items missing there meats cow and sheep and all the amazing variety of tasty
products resulting from the killing and slaughter of pigs.

Were already talking about Don Paco and Joan, were already playing
tute, Juanita rarely suspended your sewing or embroidery, but not
suspend, used to take part in the conversation as more enjoyable.

No one came to interrupt this circle of three, except Antonuelo, which scaled much to Don Paco
and filled him with dread and moody.

Grew this point because while he was playing Don Paco tute and was accused Juana Forty, Antonuelo
sat near Juanita, on the other end of the room where she sewed, and
both excitedly and whispered so softly that Don Paco could not catch
a word of what they said.

This was put on edge and very agitated and sad, but you were worth to hide stealth.

Then Don Paco played worse: he used to be king and horse of the same suit he forgot to acknowledge
twenty, or, if you played a gold Juana and he had the ace or three,
he kept it and not missed.

So they came at night to socialize Antonuelo on the frustration that led Don Paco, made him lose
a couple of pesetas and up to three at times.

Antonuelo come or not come to socialize, Juana la Larga was always present. Don Pablo manner of speaking
was not alone with Juanita, or leaving the mother and imitate Antonuelo
entangled in whispers with his daughter.

I tried it once, speaking on Juanita, answered this high, making conversation
general and stripping it of all mystery.

Don Paco wanted Well, when Antonuelo coming, surrounding things so that forced him entertain
the mother, talking or playing tute with her, but claimed that Antonuelo tute could not play and
implied that he had nothing to say to Jane.

Don Paco often highly charged out of this circle, which was proposed and nearly resolved not return
to it or at least go slowly withdrawing. But I had taken the damn habit go, and every night, if
slowing somewhat, to touch souls began to tingle and boil the feet, and themselves, acting
and rebelling against their will, brought him to escape and as if by magic to the home of both
Juan.

X

Soon noticed all the neighbors, it spreads the news for the rest of the population, the constant
Don Paco nightly visits, but as Antonuelo used to go too, and between Don Paco and Juanita was
so great disproportion of age, people murmuring explained everything assuming Antonuelo was Juanita's
boyfriend, and Don Paco had or tried to have romantic relationships
with the mother, who, despite his forty-five years and the many jobs
and dislikes had happened in this life, hardly any gray hair, and
was agile, lean, and although a few, well made, fresh, tight and juicy
meat apparently.

The austerity of Juana la Larga elusive for many years, since he had his youth stumbling this time
could not relieve it of slander. People said they had finally left
tempt and gave it all for granted.

When I saw people who were Antonuelo and Don Paco at nine home and remained there until around midnight,
did not judge that so innocent gathering as it really was, and called it love twice.

The jokes about it to Don Paco gave some of his friends stirred up a lot.

So, excited, although he had no right to demand an explanation, more or less disguised rodeos,
and when Antonuelo was not present, he dared to ask them and find out why he came Antonuelo
so often and what was with Juanita on long asides and whispers.

Both John, without alteration in any way as a matter of course and simply explained what However,
saying that Juanita and Antonuelo were exactly the same age, had
grown together since they were in diapers and could be regarded as
brothers.

They added that Antonuelo was both naughty and very pocket, which gave his father great uneasiness,
feared that it could even greater harm and Juanita even remotely
suited him for boyfriend, but she was right not to dispense it had
brotherly love, or to forbid to come and see, or fail to give good
advice and warnings, which were the subject of whispers.

Don Paco appeared to quiet down to hear such an explanation, but in reality was not at rest, and
showing the genuine interest that the good name of Juanita inspired him, hinting that although
it was all moral and pure and innocent, it was desirable to avoid what people say, do not receive
Antonuelo so often.

The sermons he preached Don Paco, rather than leading to moral decency observed Juanita can not
say they were preaching in the desert. Gradually stopped visiting often Antonuelo, their whispers with
Juanita shortened, and finally, whispers and visits came to be rare.

This gave encouragement to Don Paco.

Thought he noticed that lent ear to his loving gentle reprimand, and dared to preach also on
another point.

In the end he liked to see Juanita chat on the source or up the hill to the pitcher in the hip or
washed clothes and gentle on the head, more graceful and a gallant green forest nymph, and
more majestic than own princess Nausicaa, which also washed clothing
when not flake off or take the airs on the floor, they used to princesses,
Back in the golden ages.

Don Paco, who had, as we have already pointed out, understanding, love of beauty, it was entranced
watching the gait of the girl, who had no light, provocative and dirty movement hips and tiny
little steps that tend to have cool, but it was a smooth ride, great strides, noble and gracious,
as indeed must go Diana, or Venus herself to reveal the son of Anchises in the forests around
Carthage.

Villalegre were spent in corsets, and even was Juana's Long who was better, but the Juanita
indomitable never wanted to get into such a tightness or wear that hair shirt that she needed anything
and he understood that his body had been disfigured. Wearing only between the slight calico
dress and white shirt and a waistcoat and petticoat bodice without irons or whales, which was enough
to constrain virginal narrow waist, leaving the rest Udder that law firm, had no need of support
or support.

In the spirit of Don Paco could, however, rather than the delight to see Juanita at source albercón
or returning from, the idea that, being very remote and the golden age was not possible to mimic
the princess Nausicaa, without stooping or abasement too, and so he advised and admonished
many times and with such discrete Juanita reasons not to go to the source, always supported
her mother, Juanita gave way, after all, and stopped going to the
source and the albercón, retreating further from other various exercises
and tasks that are not characteristic of a lady.

XI

Doña Inés López de Roldan was far from being an ordinary villager
and mediocrity.

It was, by the Otherwise, very distinguished, and their merits both looked at, or be proportionate,
could qualify for a princess or a Lieveo Madame Recamier village. His life did not spend idle,
but employed in works almost always good and fruitful toil. Your charity to the poor was widely
praised, and helped this year Mr. Don Andrés Rubio. Why she did not neglect the government of
his house, which was jumping clean, and all very in order, despite having seven kids, the eldest
of eight years, but as the house was very large, five more, delivered to a woman already old
and trustworthy, had them on the opposite end of the one in which she was, in order to not disturb
their screaming and crying, and his solitary musings, and their readings, and their interesting
Anselmo talks with the father, with the chief or someone from stem to come to visit.

At nine o'clock at night in summer and eight winter or earlier, sent to bed children, and since
then, until eleven o'clock, and sometimes even later, was gathering, which Be discreet, and
who rarely attended Mr. Roldan, who could not boast or brag of discrete,
and whom the shrewd and amazed at his wife's pride, but also time
excited him to sleep.

In the hours that left him free of worries and cares of the house and even the administration
of the estate, which had slowly robbed her husband for not consider
him capable, Dona Ines used to engage in readings that adorned and
raised their spirit.

Seldom missed the time to read novels, convicted of tasteless or immoral and lustful. Of poetry
was not supported either, and without plagiarizing Plato, Plato did not realize I had precepts,
banished from home and family to almost all the poets as corrupting morality and enemies of
true religion and peace that must prevail in the well republics agreed, but instead read Dona
Ines History of Spain and other countries and, above all, many books of devotion. The priest
admired so much to hear him talk about theology that, mentally, adorned
with the hood behind and head with his hat and tassel.

So great was the activity of Dona Ines, despite so many occupations, there was still time to
satisfy his desire to learn thoroughly contemporary history and local I had for her more attractive
than the Universal History or remote ages and countries.

For detailed local contemporary story about the facts and to exercise the most severe critical,
Dona Ines value of different media, the most important one old maid, I was doing errands, going
in and out everywhere and it was called Crispina, rival in Privanza
favor and Serafina, the maid.

With Crispina, Dona Ines was aware of the engagements he had in town of quarrels and love affairs,
friendships and enmities, of what is spent on dress in each house, so this was and what he had given
prize, and even what I ate or spent on food each family. Those who ate well, Doña Inés's censored
for their gluttony and waste, and those who ate little and badly, had described these wretched of
wolverine and perecientes.

He soon, therefore, Dona Ines news of the passions of her father and his home visits or gatherings
of both Juan. A lot of bother this gross wickedness, how hard the last name, but concealed and
reported for many days, without saying anything to his father.

Dona Ines was very advanced in its eighth hopes stem and in this
delicate situation was careful and tried not to be altered for any
reason, to that these hopes were not frustrated or twisted ruinmente,
performing in a premature to deterioration and damage to his health.

But while Dona Ines said no for now Don Paco anything, it was saved and continued to watch and find
out from Crispina, in the belief that it was not Juanita Juana and her father who wanted or
courting.

This belief not a little disgust mitigated Dona Ines Porge could not get into his head his father
never tried to remarry with Juana la Larga.

So what very sharply censured in this era of immorality and scandal loving relationships man
who had contracted by more than half a century and was soon to be grandfather for the eighth
time. The angry too tired commoner status of the object of love from his father, who, if not worthy
of applause, would have seemed worthy of apology to have been with
some noble modest and its position, as there were two or three in
place, which, he thought Dona Ines Don Paco had been opened, if he
had knocked on the door asking them entry.

No tired, then, Dona Ines de censor vile inclinations of his father. He also hurt that his
father liked both give to Juana la Larga, assuming, as the news brought Crispina, who spent
much more than it earned.

- "So tute playing with it?

- Yes, madam - said Crispina -. And then, throw it fine, and because he is enthralled and spellbound
Juana watching sheep's eyes half die, and without regard to the game, the fact is that Juana
stripping, beating ten or twelve reals per night. In addition, gifts of Don Paco rain without
clearing on that house, and sends a turkey, and a dozen puddings
and fruit, and part of chocolate that gives him his mercy, made by
the man who came specially from Cordoba to do to this house.

What that Don Paco had given a part of their fiercely angry chocolate Dona Ines, I felt a real
desecration and almost made him lose his temper, but at last thought about the situation he was
in, and out of mind, and got reported. Moderation and their care were not in vain.

On June 29, feast of St. Peter the Apostle, Dona Ines felt from very
early morning pain, and with great ease gave birth in the same day
to a beautiful child.

The mother and Mr. Roldan decided to be called Peter in honor of the Prince of the Apostles
in whose day he was born and who were very devout. Mr. Don Andrés Rubio promised to take the infant
in his arms at the baptismal font. And since the infant was robustísimo and physician sure that
his life was in danger, delayed his baptism until mid July and because
it would be lifted Dona Ines and could attend the festivities that
are undertaken, and because then it would make the announced visit
of the bishop, who, at the to confirm that all the boys who are not,
they would do the honor of baptizing Parakeet future.

The bishop would be staying at the house of lords Roldan three or four days were in Villalegre.
Doña Inés, therefore, thinking about the preparations and all means had to employ to do with
showcasing such an honorable reception, persevered in restraining his Juana la Larga anger, whom
his father's imagined seductive. And hiding the hate had taken, refused to leave of using it
at the time of such determination. Had already called the day of
delivery, because it knew from experience that nothing in the world
more skilled midwife known as Jane.

And there was no woman so willing
to prepare and lead the festivities, with Joan promised time so that
two days before the arrival of the bishop came home, without returning
to the house itself but to sleep and prepare and direct everything.
Juana promised to do so and it turned very tasty.

XII

On the eve
of the arrival of the bishop, who was on July 15, the eve also of
the Virgin of Carmen, Juana had already worked a lot, sweating chyle
to flavor the food and candy, and even have the equipment and the
magnificence that were to be deployed in the reception and hosting
of your illustrious lordship, and soda and had ambiguous to be in
that house all the most distinguished and illustrious village, after
completion the Christian ceremonies of confirmation and baptism. And the jaguar, who lives near the Amazon and other rivers, is a champion swimmer. He
swims as easily as he climbs trees. So he eats fish as often as he eats monkeys!

Yes, he actually catches a monkey sleeping on the bough of a tree! He climbs up so silently
that the monkey does not awake. At least, those monkeys that do not cultivate the keenest sense
of hearing, even in their sleep, get eaten by the jaguar. But a jaguar that is clumsy in his
movements awakes the sleeping monkey--and then that jaguar has to go without his dinner. So,
again, life is like a competition or trial in the jungle, as I have told you in Book I, pages
118-119. Those animals that cultivate their gifts escape their enemies and they get enough
to eat. Ya, ya. Come and see God.

I am very natural. If I do not hold, apologize until she married. What I angry, is its lack of
candor. And it angers me, not you not think me and find me boyfriend who is more than enough
time and I have no haste, but it distracted her with her general I do not watch and let me monstrosity
entrusted to Dona Rita, that if it was his nanny, has more a tortoise
shells.

Fortunately, though I be wrong to say it, I'm so wise that neither
the mother's neglect nor the futile defense of Dona Rita can harm.

And notice that I've seen since I left three months ago the world in dangerous times.

If mom has its secrets and the hush, me too I have mine and I will not mention, using the reprisals.
My secret is a boyfriend ... and gorgeous.

Although a novice, I have not gone blind or have made any nonsense. And that I loved it from
I saw him the first time. What distinguished! How elegant! What a cute boy! And what friendly
without timidity or shrinking!

Whenever I went out with Dona Rita, church, ride, or to go friend's house, bang! unfailingly,
as if evoked, showing him and almost bumped us. And he looked at me with eyes ... Heavens, what
eyes! But she dared not speak.

I've never seen or dances, or chats, or in theaters. And yet, it's not cheesy: there is only
him to know that it is not. Be strangers, I said to myself. And noting it I know not what a pilgrim,
I figured it was not from any province, but rare-earth and perhaps remote.

This happened over a month, over a century for me, because I was tormented
by curiosity know who this mysterious being.

I was wandering anxious and fearful at the same time he spoke to me; so eager to find my taste,
and fearful because if he had spoken to me without knowing, without prior and proper presentation,
I would have to be attributed to poor parenting or lack of respect.

It seems providential that has happened. The sky has rewarded my piety and how much they wanted I
to my grandmother. Was a saint. But in the end, with some peccadilloes could go to another
world when he died two years ago. Maybe they are still in purgatory. Not too many, then, Masses
that say about his soul. Thinking in this way, just eight days ago
I went into the sacristy to entrust to the Father González twenty
Masses and paid for me from my nest egg. And who will think I met
you there? Then I found talking familiarly tracker Fr. I wanted to
wait from a distance to that conversation ended, and the Father saw
me and I said: What is offered to you, Miss Dona Manuela?

How can you tell the difference between the Cat Tribe and the Dog Tribe? By the four qualities
that the Cat Tribe has, and which the Dog Tribe does not have.

I. The members of the Cat Tribe have four fangs. Those of the Dog Tribe do not have fangs.
They have special teeth of their own kind.

II. The members of the Cat Tribe have a rough tongue. Those of the Dog Tribe have a tongue
which is not quite so rough. Bad remedy
     would be the wedding. Increase the rebellion and mutiny. His Your
     daughter would be put to the head. We could not resist. The
     three would have to go with the music elsewhere. Finally, Don Paco,
     Juanita says that the wedding would be crazy. Says, finally, that
     she did not send in your heart, that age difference is great
     between you and you do not want to love, though he professes friendship
     thinner. It would therefore be very ugly Part of her abusing the
     generosity of you to meet ambition or vanity married by calculation,
     and would also be very silly, because the calculation would be wrong.

The
     best and most discreet is that you do not get married and that no
know you gave this step.

     Doña Inés hate us if we accept the proposition you, but we hate and
     we further declare war if you find that we do not accept,
     looking as to despise his father with unfounded arrogance. Matter
     So hide all this.
     
     Here I return to you your letter.

     Tear and rip mine to is no written proof of what happened, and keep
     you in your memory fond memories of us. Believe in our deep gratitude
     and faithfully send your constant friend and servant, qbsm,

Juana
     Gutierrez.
     

     XXI

Don Paco felt hurt and pleased at once with the reading of the letter, he called very quiet
and looked as dictated by Juanita.

If she had accepted her husband, Don Paco 'content would have been great, but lower its estimate
of the value of Juanita that was then to receive the pumpkins. Perhaps a vague suspicion that
Juanita had watered using the opportunity to see the content she accepted. If extremely hurt
that she's stating that he loved him, could not applauding the loyalty
of the statement. He has not succeeded in
killing off the American gray wolf.

In some places man has almost killed off certain animals, even when he did not want to do so. Their number, 4,500. To prevent that, hearing no evil and recognizing your voice, speak
I with another subject, we agreed to start by telling us four magic words: the first and third,
I: he, the second and fourth. And what words so rare! (Taking a piece of paper). In this piece
of paper I wrote them in pencil. Going to strike ten. Since I have a terrible headache, yes,
I have, not all ploy, I could accompany my mother, who has been to the theater the Viscountess.
(Ring the ten on the mantel clock.)

Time's up. Ea, fear of side (is on the phone, rings the bell and little sounds bell.) Central
..... communication with the 4,500.

(Pause again rang the bell.) Logos ..... I recognize his voice, says Theos ... Sares ... Egeneto
been answered.

- Oh, narcissistic! What folly! What mischief! Reason mom would scold me if I surprise them talking
on the phone with you: with a man she does not know .-- What panache! What a way to get up to the
plate! Is this education in the convent have given you those blessed mother? - Mom exclaimed
.-- If you really want me, if you are a young formal and as God commands,
and if you want that our relations continue, it is indispensable which
do you present to Mom as soon as possible.

(Another pause. The pauses will be more or less long, according to the response that was expressed
or presumed.)

No: what we've done so far can not be followed. A sneak mom in walk,
on the street, making accomplice to Dona Rita, I will not say nothing
to you but very occasionally to time. Talking and journaling would
be very ugly. You yourself think ill of me. The people who see us
mutter. They did that for sport or for profit; they made a profit, because they
sold the skins and other parts of the animals' bodies. I,
meanwhile, still I was not after the scare. And I'm so much chastened and wary involuntary
evil of this blazing fire that comes sometimes from my eyes, I do not propose looking at anyone
and always be staring at the floor.

Keep you well, my kind friend, and ask God in prayer to give me back
so awful quiet that I had stolen haul.

THE phone call Manolito

(DRAMA IN TWO BOXES)

Manolita unique character.

TABLE ONE

Classy and rich. It is night. Lamps and lighted candles. No telephone. Manolita alone. Restless,
coming and going from one extreme to another, had to itself.

Much love to Mom. By all means I did not love.

The fourth honor thy father and mother. In addition, sick easy for me to fulfill this commandment. I'm
not resentful, but grateful that I have had nearly three years in school. I was spoiled impossible,
to cross and willful. I was a little devil and needed metiesen me
in couture.

Now that I'm back home again, I am man of great trial. And how could
I not love Mom? I mima, I celebrated, I idolized. My whims are law.
Mom gives me a thousand charms; spend a fortune in my dresses and
hats. Never rage when the bills come. So it seems little you pay.
And yet I can not deny it: mom is complaining.

Is good and holy innocence,
yes, sir, very good and very holy, but I just turned seventeen years,
and although only three months ago I left the Sacred Heart of Jesus,
why has not imagine mom I'm stupid and I do not see or understand
anything.

Just over eight years has now a widow. Much cared for my
father in his last illness. So in
a few generations a race of wolves grew up in the West that the hunter did not even get the
chance to shoot.

That in itself was a great achievement for the wolf. Why? Because some species of animals as
a race do not learn so quickly to run away from the mere presence of man; one or two animals
personally may learn quickly to do that, but not all the animals of a species. 

Don Andres did not shrink before the anticipation of a duel. While driving the sword and gun, Don
Paco and fencing did not know and had never taken a gun in his hand, but could well Don Paco,
as local and nothing was used to profile and ceremonies, lose a day head and break him, because
his hand was heavy and handled well the club, what which, though peaceful, and had various
tests, in addition to what went so dear to Antonuelo. Then the man went away from the traps. Do
you know what I fear? I fear that Don Paco, judging a loss to the woman who was being of their worship,
has been desperate to God knows where.

- Of all that is to blame - brought Juana - that bitch Dona Ines,
the degollante, not pay but burned alive or fried in oil.

- I assure
you, Mom, I do not know how the stand yet, but if this does not stop
and think of a good mess, who will burn and fry me with these hands.

No, I'm not even maimed. The flay, I'll kill the descuartizaré. Do not think you going to keep
laughing.

Juana, so excited to see her daughter, she feared the possibility of a crime, and said as a person
cautious and judicious:

- Prudence, girl, prudence, I advise you
not to forgive her.

 He hid the trap cunningly under leaves or under snow; only the tempting
bait was placed in sight. He thought that because the wolf could not now see the trap, he would
fall into it. See
you on where, throwing some blame mother, stepfather and has decided to give me a tyrant, that
will undoubtedly come to settle in a little, in this house ...

Jesus, Mary and Joseph! What is this mess? It is not narcissistic,
it's Mom who answers me finely chopped. Well, in some way, the surviving American wolves detected the traps, even when
the traps were covered up. So after that they began to avoid these hidden traps, and they taught
their children to do the same.

Man found himself beaten once more by the wolf in this battle of wits. Through the school teacher, who had brought and with whom had spoken, I knew
as soon as the school teacher knew.

Don Pascual, believing doing good to his friends, had revealed to Don Andrés jealousy and Don
Paco despair, because of his escape, Don Paco what had happened in two days country, love
of Juanita, so in love with him as he with her, and sentimentality of Antonuelo for Juanita
and his craving to save the eight thousand reais finding to cover
the opening of Murcia shopkeeper.

So far Mr. Spencer knew, and so far knew Don Andrés, never knowing what the note Juanita or visit
Don Paco, who were later events that Mr. Spencer did not. Don Andrés, from experience, was not
inclined to believe in the virtue of women. I had no reason to make an honorable exception Juanita.
On the contrary, judged brash, provocative and raised in total freedom
for ordinary mother and ignorant lower class of society, ancient or
so repentant sinner.

As a man of high position who did not come from ancestry, his father and he had raised to know
and efforts on the mob belonged to Don Andrés, could not help it, and rather because in spite of his
understanding, had a worse opinion of the little people that those who from time immemorial
or after a long series of illustrious ancestors excel among the vulgar. They tend to attribute
these superior capabilities and compliance with them gives a blissful circumstances: to be
born where they were born, to a social and legal fiction that in the depths of his soul can not boast.
Hence they are modest in the background and that naturally consider them less than to the least
and wretched human creature. By contrast, Sir Andrew, as few others do not by themselves soar, felt
very superior to those neighbors around him. And he was also smart teller of asserting itself,
and was, though hardly dared to confess, with no fewer defects or services, could not confer
or grant of many more to many people watching around him, dominated
and humiliated.

So biased and using data that already had, drew Don Andres in his mind the character Juanita and
composed in their own way the story of the girl.

To explain the determination that she was in saving the blacksmith's
son, he certainly very prematurely had been her friend. And in the
love of Don Paco Juanita saw nothing but the plan to marry the most
important man after he was in the villa.

Both plans extremely repugnant
to the chief. Most animals
have far more natural intelligence than the American wolf; and yet none of these animals seem
to be able to beat man in the battle of wits. The American wolf alone has done it, though he
naturally has very little brains. 

That usually has about fifty years: it was an old friend of dad, or rather, the father of my father,
and that is no longer for love affairs and no one can assume such a thing. Y meanwhile, we
usually all grass. He's funny and cunning, but I have loaded. In the theater, usually comes to our
box and is with us an intermission and an act whole and sometimes two intermissions. Says a
pleasantry, yes, always clean and no whiff barracks, and Mom laughing screwdriver.
 Other people of talent are lazy, and do not
use all their gifts; these people do not prosper. 

Don Paco could no longer bear: he ran to the door of the box, fortunately old and rickety and unloading
on it with all vigor a flurry of kicks, punches and blows, got in a few seconds to tear it from
its hinges and break it down on the ground with resounding shaking, which made the walls tremble.

The
robber is seized with terror because they imagined at first that
the old guard, or filled envious of the happiness that others were
to achieve, or angry because he defiled his mansion where the day
before the body had still been present, now captaining a legion came
of demons to take him to hell.

What mortal creature could appear at that hour and so remote site?


Till then, as they say in the Orient, God and His peace be with you! Since
your father died in the war against the Carlist, but I do not write the bills.

- With good or bad handwriting, it is necessary that you write the
letter, I will dictate the go.

- Today, yet. Is it rogue dagger?
Who will run?

Page 45: "Heading off Criminal Elephant" changed to "Heading off a Criminal Elephant".

