And then they shouldered arms and showed how fields were won. Boom! went Sigel's guns out of
the past, and crash! came the Texas cavalry, and the whoop of the Louisiana Pelicans rang in
their ears. They marched south after Hindman, and then came back with Grant to Vicksburg, where
they fought and bled and died. The general left them and went east, where he "deployed on our
right" and executed flank movements, and watched Pickett's column come fling itself to death
at Gettysburg. And Watts McHurdie rode with the artillery through the rear of the rebel lines
at Pittsburg Landing, and when the rebel officer saw the little man's bravery, and watched
him making for the Union lines bringing three guns, he waved his hat and told his soldiers
not to shoot at that boy. The colonel took a stick and marked out on the floor our position
at Antietam, and showed where the reserves were supposed to be and how the enemy masked his
guns behind that hill, and we planted our artillery on the opposite ridge; and he marched with
the infantry and lay in ambush while the enemy came marching in force through the wood. In
time Watts McHurdie was talking to Lincoln in the streets of Richmond, and telling for the
hundredth time what Lincoln said of the song and how he had sung it. But who cares now what
Lincoln said? It was something kind, you may be sure, with a tear and a laugh in it, and the
veterans laughed, while their eyes grew moist as they always did when Watts told it. Then they
fell to carnage again--a fierce fight against time, against the moment when they must leave
their old companion alone. Up hills they charged and down dales, and the moon rose high, and
cast its shadow to the eastward before they parted. First Dolan edged away, and then the general
went, waving his hand military fashion; and the colonel returned the salute. When the gate
had clanged, Watts rose to go. He did not speak, nor did the colonel. Arm in arm, they walked
down the steps together, and halfway down the garden path the colonel rested his hand on the
little man's shoulder as they walked in silence. At the gate they saw each other's tears, and
the little man's voice failed him when the colonel said, "Well, good-by, comrade--good night."
So Watts turned and ran, while the colonel, for the first time in his manhood, loosed the cords
of his sorrow and stood alone in the moonlight with upturned face, swaying like an old tree
in a storm.

CHAPTER XXI

And now those who have avoided the gray unpainted shame of these unimportant people of the
Ridge may here take up again for a moment the trailing clouds of glory that shimmer over John
Barclay's office in the big City. For here there is the sounding brass and tinkling cymbal
of great worldly power. Here sits John Barclay, a little gray-haired, gray-clad, lynx-eyed
man, in a big light room at the corner of a tower high over the City in the Corn Exchange Building,
the brain from which a million nerves radiate that run all over the world and move thousands
of men. Forty years before, when John was playing in the dust of the road leading up from the
Sycamore, no king in all the world knew so much of the day's doings as John knows now, sitting
there at the polished mahogany table with the green blotting paper upon it, under the green
vase adorned with the red rose. A blight may threaten the wheat in Argentine, and John Barclay
knows every cloud that sails the sky above that wheat, and when the cloud bursts into rain
he sighs, for it means something to him, though heaven only knows what, and we and heaven do
not care. But a dry day in India or a wet day in Russia or a cloudy day in the Dakotas are
all taken into account in the little man's plans. And if princes quarrel and kings grow weary
of peace, and money bags refuse them war, John Barclay knows it and puts the episode into figures
on the clean white pad of paper before him.

It is a privilege to be in this office; one passes three doors to get here, and even at the
third door our statesmen often cool their toes. Mr. Barclay is about to admit one now. And
when Senator Myton comes in, deferentially of course, to tell Mr. Barclay the details of the
long fight in executive session which ended in the confirmation by the senate of Lige Bemis
as a federal judge, the little gray man waves the senator to a chair, and runs his pencil up
a column of figures, presses a button, writes a word on a sheet of paper, and when the messenger
appears, hands the paper to him and says, "For Judge Bemis."

"I have just dismissed a Persian satrap," expands Barclay, "who won't let his people use our
binders; that country eventually will be a great field for our Mediterranean branch."

Myton is properly impressed. For a man who can make a senator out of Red River clay and a federal
judge out of Lige Bemis is a superhuman creature, and Myton does not doubt Barclay's power
over satraps.

When the business of the moment between the two men is done, Barclay, rampant with power, says:
"Myton" (it is always "Myton," never "Senator," with Barclay; he finds it just as well to let
his inferiors know their relation to the universe), "Myton, I ran across a queer thing last
week when I took over that little jerkwater New England coast line. The Yankees are a methodical
lot of old maids. I find they had been made agents of a lot of the big fellows--insurance people,
packing-houses, and transcontinental railroads--two of my lines were paying them, though I'd
forgotten about it until I looked it up--and the good old sewing society had card-indexed the
politics of the United States--the whole blessed country, by state and congressional districts.
I took over the chap who runs it, and I've got the whole kit in the offices here now. It's
great. If a man bobs up for something in Florida or Nebraska, we just run him down on the card
index, and there he stands--everything he ever did, every interview he ever gave, every lawsuit
he ever had, every stand he ever took in politics--right there in the index, in an envelope
ready for use, and all the mean things ever written about him. I simply can't make a mistake
now in getting the wrong kind of fellows in. Commend me to a Yankee or a Jap for pains. I can
tell you in five minutes just what influences are behind every governor, congressman, senator,
judge, most of the legislators in every state, the federal courts clear up to the Supreme Court.
There was a man appointed on that court less than a dozen years ago who swapped railroad receiverships
like a tin peddler with his senator for his job, when he was on the circuit bench. And he was
considerable of a judge in the bean country for a time. Just to verify my index, I asked Bemis
about this judge. 'Lige,' I said, 'was Judge So-and-So a pretty honest judge?' 'Oh, hell,'
says Lige, and that was all I could get out of him. So I guess they had him indexed right."
And Barclay rattles on; he has become vociferous and loquacious, and seems to like to hear
the roar of his voice in his head. The habit has been growing on him.

But do not laugh at the blindness of John Barclay, sitting there in his power, admiring himself,
boasting in the strength of his card-index to Senator Myton. For the tide of his power was
running in, and soon it would be high tide with John Barclay--high tide of his power, high
tide of his fame, high tide of his pride. So let us watch the complacent smile crack his features
as he sits listening to Senator Myton: "Mr. Barclay, do you know, I sometimes think that Providence
manifests itself in minds like yours, even as in the days of old it was manifest in the hearts
of the prophets. In those days it was piety that fitted the heart for higher things; to-day
it is business. You and a score of men like you in America are intrusted with the destiny of
this republic, as surely as the fate of the children of Israel was in the hands of Moses and
Aaron!"

Barclay closed his eyes a moment, in contemplation of the figure, and then broke out in a roaring
laugh, "Hanno is a god! Hanno is a god!--get out of here, Henry Myton,--get out of here, I
say--this is my busy day," and he laughed the young senator out of the room. But he sat alone
in his office grinning, as over and over in his mind his own words rang, "Hanno is a god!"
And the foolish parrot of his other self cackled the phrase in his soul for days and days!

It is our high privilege thus to stand close by and watch the wheels of the world go around.
In those days of the late nineties Barclay travelled up and down the earth so much in his private
car that Jane used to tell Molly Brownwell that living with John was like being a travelling
man's wife. But Jane did not seem to appreciate her privilege. She managed to stay at home
as much as possible, and sometimes he took the Masons along for company. Mrs. Mason gloried
in it, and lived at the great hotels and shopped at the highest-priced antique stores to her
heart's delight. Lycurgus' joy was in being interviewed, and the Barclay secretaries got so
that they could edit the Mason interviews and keep out the poison, and let the old man swell
and swell until the people at home thought he must surely burst with importance at the next town.

One day in the nineties Barclay appropriated a half-million dollars to advertise "Barclay's
Best" and a cracker that he was pushing. When the man who placed the business in the newspaper
had gone, Barclay sat looking out of the window and said to his advertising manager: "I've
got an idea. Why should I pay a million dollars to irresponsible newspapers? I won't do it."

"But we must advertise, Mr. Barclay--you've proved it pays."

"Yes," he returned, "you bet it pays, and I might just as well get something out of it besides
advertising. Take this; make five copies of it; I'll give you the addresses later." Barclay
squared himself to a stenographer to dictate:--

    "Dear Sir: I spend a million dollars a year advertising grain
    products; you and the packers doubtless spend that much advertising
    your products and by-products; the railroads spend as much more, and
    the Oil people probably half as much more. Add the steel products
    and the lumber products, and we have ten million dollars going into
    the press of this country. In a crisis we cannot tell how these
    newspapers will treat us. I think we should organize so that we will
    know exactly where we stand. Therefore it is necessary absolutely to
    control the trade advertising of this country. A company to take
    over the five leading advertising agencies could be formed, for half
    as much as we spend every year, and we could control nine-tenths of
    the American trade advertising. We could then put an end to any
    indiscriminate mobbing of corporations by editors. I will be pleased
    to hear from you further upon this subject."

A day or two later, when the idea had grown and ramified itself in his mind, he talked it all
out to Jane and exclaimed, "How will old Phil Ward's God manage to work it out, as he says,
against that proposition? Brains," continued Barclay, "brains--that's what counts in this world.
You can't expect the men who dominate this country--who make its wealth, and are responsible
for its prosperity, to be at the mercy of a lot of long-nosed reformers who don't know how
to cash their own checks."

How little this rich man knew of the world about him! How circumscribed was his vision! With
all his goings up and down the earth, with all of his great transactions, with all of his apparent
power, how little and sordid was his outlook on life. For he thought he was somebody in this
universe, some one of importance, and in his scheme of things he figured out a kind of partnership
between himself and Providence--a partnership to run the world in the interests of John Barclay,
and of course, wherever possible, with reasonable dividends to Providence.

But a miracle was coming into the world. In the under-consciousnesses of men, sown God only
knows how and when and where, sown in the weakness of a thousand blind prophets, the seeds
of righteous wrath at greed like John Barclay's were growing during all the years of his triumph.
Men scarcely knew it themselves. Growth is so simple and natural a process that its work is
done before its presence is known. And so this arrogant man, this miserable, little, limping,
brass-eyed, leather-skinned man, looked out at the world around him, and did not see the change
that was quickening the hearts of his neighbours.

And yet change was in everything about him. A thousand years are as but a watch in the night,
and tick, tock, tick, tock, went the great clock, and the dresses of little Jeanette Barclay
slipped down, down, down to her shoe-tops, and as the skirts slipped down she went up. And
before her father knew it her shoe-tops sank out of sight, and she was a miss at the last of
her teens. But he still gave her his finger when they walked out together, though she was head
and shoulders above him.

One day when she led him to the Banner office to buy some fancy programmes for a party she
was giving, he saw her watching young Neal Ward,--youngest son of the general,--who was sitting
at a reporter's desk in the office, and the father's quick eyes saw that she regarded the youth
as a young man. For she talked so obviously for the Ward boy's benefit that her father, when
they went out of the printing-office, took a furtive look at his daughter and sighed and knew
what her mother had known for a year.

"Jeanette," he said that night at dinner, "where's my shot-gun?" When she told him, he said:
"After dinner you get it, load it with salt, and put it in the corner by the front door." Then
he added to the assembled family: "For boys--dirty-faced, good-for-nothing, long-legged boys!
I'm going to have a law passed making an open season for boys in this place from January first
until Christmas."

Jeanette dimpled and blushed, the family smiled, and her mother said: "Well, John, there'll
be a flock of them at Jeanette's party next week for you to practise on. All the boys and girls
in town are coming."

And after dessert was served the father sat chuckling and grinning and grunting, "Boys--boys,"
and at intervals, "Measly little milk-eyed kids," and again "Boys--boys," while the family
nibbled at its cheese.

Those years when the nineteenth century was nearing its close and when the tide of his fortunes
was running in, bringing him power and making him mad with it, were years of change in Sycamore
Ridge--in the old as well as in the young. In those years the lilacs bloomed on in the Culpepper
yard; and John Barclay did not know it, though forty years before Ellen Culpepper had guarded
the first blossoms from those bushes for him. Miss Lucy, his first ideal, went to rest in those
years while the booming tide was running in, and he scarcely knew it. Mrs. Culpepper was laid
beside Ellen out on the Hill; and he hardly realized it, though no one in all the town had
watched him growing into worldly success with so kindly an eye as she. But the tide was roaring
in, and John Barclay's whole consciousness was turned toward it; the real things of life about
him, he did not see and could not feel. And so as the century is old the booming tide is full,
and John Barclay in his power--a bubble in the Divine consciousness, a mere vision in the real
world--stands stark mad before his phantasm, dreaming that it is all real, and chattering to
his soul, "Hanno is a god."

And now we must leave John Barclay for the moment, to explain why Neal Dow Ward, son of General
Philemon Ward, made his first formal call at the Barclays'. It cannot be gainsaid that young
Mr. Ward, aged twenty-one, a senior at Ward University, felt a tingle in his blood that day
when he met Miss Jeanette Barclay, aged eighteen, and home for the spring vacation from the
state university; and seeing her for the first time with her eyes and her hair and her pretty,
strong, wide forehead poking through the cocoon of gawky girlhood, created a distinct impression
on young Mr. Ward.

But in all good faith it should be stated that he did not make his first formal call at the
Barclays' of his own accord; for his sister, Elizabeth Cady Stanton Ward, took him. She came
home from the Culpeppers' just before supper, laughing until she was red in the face. And what
she heard at the Culpeppers', let her tell in her own way to the man of her heart. For Lizzie
was her father's child; the four other Ward girls, Mary Livermore, Frances Willard, Belva Lockwood,
and Helen Gougar, had climbed to the College Heights and had gone to Ward University, and from
that seat of learning had gone forth in the world to teach school. Elizabeth Cady Stanton Ward
had remained in the home, after her mother's death filling her mother's vacant place as well
as a daughter may.

"Well, father," said the daughter, as she was putting the evening meal on the table, addressing
the general, who sat reading by the window in the dining room, "you should have been at the
Culpeppers' when the colonel came home and told us his troubles. It seems that Nellie McHurdie
is going to make Watts run for sheriff--for sheriff, father. Imagine Watts heading a posse,
or locking any one up! And Watts has passed the word to the colonel, and he has passed it to
Molly and me, and I am to see Mrs. Barclay, and she is to see Mrs. Carnine to-morrow morning,
and they are all to set to work on Nellie and get her to see that it won't do. Poor Watts--the
colonel says he is terribly wrought up at the prospect."

The general folded his paper and smiled as he said: "Well, I don't know; Watts was a brave
soldier. He would make a good enough sheriff; but I suppose he doesn't really care for it."

"Why, no, of course not, father--why should he?" asked the daughter. "Anyhow, I want you to
make Neal go down to Barclays' with me to-night to talk it over with Jane. Neal," she called
to the young man who was sitting on the porch with his book on his knee, "Neal, I want you
to go to Barclays' with me to-night. Come in now, supper's ready."

And so it happened that Neal Dow Ward made his first call on Jeanette Barclay with his sister,
and they all sat on the porch together that fine spring evening, with the perfume of the lilacs
in the air; and it happened naturally enough that the curious human law of attraction which
unites youth should draw the chairs of the two young people together as they talked of the
things that interest youth--the parties and the ball-games and the fraternities and sororities,
and the freshman picnic and the senior grind; while the chairs of the two others drew together
as they talked of the things which interest women in middle life--the affairs of the town,
the troubles of Watts McHurdie, the bereavement of the Culpeppers, the scarcity of good help
in the kitchen, the popularity of Max Nordau's "Social Evolution," and the fun in "David Harum."
Nor is it strange that after the girl had shown the boy her Pi Phi pin, and he had shown her
his Phi Delta shield, they should fall to talking of the new songs, and that they should slip
into the big living room of the Barclay home, lighted by the electric lamps in the hall, and
that she should sit down to the piano to show him how the new song went. And if the moonlight
fell across the piano, and upon her face as she sang the little Irish folk-song, all in minors,
with her high, trembling, half-formed notes in the upper register, and if she flushed and looked
up abashed and had to be teased to go on,--not teased a great deal, but a little,--will you
blame the young man if he forgot for a moment that her father was worth such a lot of money,
and thought only that she was a beautiful girl, and said so with his eyes and face and hands
in the pretty little pause that followed when she ceased singing? And if to hide her confusion
when her heart knew what he thought, she put one foot on the loud pedal of the piano and began
singing "O Margery, O Margery," and he sang with her, and if they thrilled just a little as
their voices blended in the rollicking song--what of it? What of it? Was it not natural that
lilacs should grow in April? Was it not natural that Watts McHurdie should dread the white
light that beats upon the throne of the sheriff's office? Was it not natural that he should
turn to women for protection against one of their sex, and that the women plotting for him
should have a boy around and having a boy around where there is a girl around, and spring around
and lilacs around and a moon and music and joy around,--what is more natural in all this world
than that in the fire struck by the simple joy of youth there should be the flutter of unseen
wings around, and when the two had finished singing, with something passing between their hearts
not in the words, what is more natural than that the girl, half frightened at the thrill in
her soul, should say timidly:--

"I think they will miss us out there--don't you?" as she rose from the piano.

And if you were a boy again, only twenty-one, to whom millions of money meant nothing, would
you not catch the blue eyes of the girl as she looked up at you, in the twilight of the big
room, and answer, "All right, Jeanette"? Certainly if you had known a girl all your life, you
would call her by her first name, if her father were worth a billion, and would you not continue,
emboldened some way by not being frowned upon for calling her Jeanette, though she would have
been astonished if you had said Miss Barclay--astonished and maybe a little fearful of your
sincerity--would you not continue, after a little pause, repeating your words, "All right,
Jeanette--I suppose so--but I don't care--do you?" as you followed her through the door back
to the moon-lit porch?

And as you walked home, listening to your elder sister, would you not have time and inclination
to wonder from what remote part of this beautiful universe, from what star or what fairy realm,
that creature came, whose hair you pulled yesterday, whose legs seem to have been covered with
long skirts in the twinkling of an eye, and whose unrelated features by some magic had sloughed
off, leaving a beautiful face? Would you not think these things, good kind sir, when you were
twenty-one--even though to-day they seem highly improbable thoughts for any one to have who
was not stark mad? But if we were not all stark mad sometimes, how would the world go round?
If we were not all mad sometimes, who would make our dreams come true? How would visions in
thin air congeal into facts, how would the aspirations of the race make history? And if we
were all sane all the time, how would the angels ever get babies into the world at all, at all?

CHAPTER XXII

"Speaking of lunatics," said Mr. Dolan to Mr. Hendricks one June night, a few weeks after the
women had persuaded Mrs. McHurdie not to drag the poet into politics,--"speaking of lunatics,
you may remember that I was born in Boston, and 'twas my duty as a lad to drive the Cambridge
car, and many a time I have heard Mr. Holmes the poet and Mr. Emerson the philosopher discussing
how the world was made; whether it was objective or subjective,--which I take it to mean whether
the world is in the universe or only in your eye. One fine winter night we were waiting on
a switch for the Boston car, when Mr. Holmes said to Mr. Emerson: 'What,' says he, 'would you
think if Jake Dolan driving this car should come in and say, "Excuse me, gentlemen, but the
moon I see this moment is not some millions of miles away, but entirely in my own noddle?"'
'I'd think,' says the great philosopher, never blinking, 'that Mr. Dolan was drunk,' says he.
And there the discussion ended, but it has been going on in my head ever since. Here I am a
man climbing up my sixties, and when have I seen the moon? Once walking by this very creek
here trying to get me courage up to put me arm around her that is now Mary Carnine; once with
me head poked up close to the heads of Watts McHurdie, Gabe Carnine, and Philemon Ward, serenading
the girls under the Thayer House window the night before we left for the army. And again to-night,
sitting here on the dam, listening to the music coming down the mill-pond. Did you notice them,
Robert--the young people--Phil Ward's boy, and John Barclay's girl, and Mary Carnine's oldest,
and Oscar Fernald's youngest, with their guitars and mandolins, piling into the boats and rowing
up stream? And now they're singing the songs we sang--to their mothers, God bless 'em--the
other day before these children were born or thought of, and now I sit here an old man looking
at the moon."

"But is it the moon?" he went on after a long silence, puffing at his pipe. "If the moon is
off there, three or thirty or three hundred million miles away in the sky, where has it been
these forty years? I've not seen it. And yet here she pops out of my memory into my eye, and
if I say the moon has always been in my eye, and is still in my eye, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson
says I'm drunk. But does that settle the question of who's got the moon--me or the cosmos--as
the poets call it?" After that the two men smoked in silence, and as Hendricks threw away the
butt of his cigar, Dolan said, "'Tis a queer, queer world, Robert--a queer, queer world."

Now do not smile at Mr. Dolan, gentle reader, for Adam must have thought the same thing, and
philosophy has been able to say nothing more to the point.

It is indeed a queer, queer world, and our blindness is the queerest thing in it. Here a few
weeks, later sit John and Jane Barclay on the terrace before their house one June night, listening
to singing on the water. Suddenly they realize that there is youth in the world--yet there
has been singing on the mill-pond ever since it was built. It has been the habitat of lovers
for a quarter of a century, this mill-pond, yet Jane and John Barclay have not known it, and
not until their own child's voice came up to them, singing "Juanita," did they realize that
the song had not begun anew after its twenty years' silence in their own hearts, but always
had been on the summer breeze. And this is strange, too, considering how rich and powerful
John Barclay is and how by the scratch of his pen, he might set men working by the thousands
for some righteous cause. Yet so it is; for with all the consciousness of great power, with
all the feeling of unrestraint that such power gives a man, driving him to think he is a kind
of god, John Barclay was only a two-legged man, with a limp in one foot, and a little mad place
in his brain, wherein he kept the sense of his relation to the rest of this universe. And as
he sat, blind to the moon, dreaming of a time when he would control Presidents and dominate
courts if they crossed his path, out on the mill-pond under an elm tree that spread like a
canopy upon the water, a boy, letting the oars hang loosely, was playing the mandolin to a
girl--a pretty girl withal, blue as to eyes, fair as to hair, strong as to mouth and chin,
and glorious as to forehead--who leaned back in the boat, played with the overhanging branches,
and listened and looked at the moon, and let God's miracle work unhindered in her heart. And
all up and down those two miles of mill-pond were other boats and other boys and other maidens,
and as they chatted and sang and sat in the moonlight, there grew in their hearts, as quietly
as the growing of the wheat in the fields, that strange marvel of life, that keeps the tide
of humanity ceaselessly flowing onward. And it is all so simply done before our eyes, and in
our ears, that we forget it is so baffling a mystery.

Now let us project our astral bodies into the living room of the Barclay home, while Mr. and
Mrs. John Barclay are away in Boston, and only John Barclay's mother and his daughter are in
Sycamore Ridge; and let us watch a young man of twenty-one and a young woman of eighteen dispose
of a dish of fudge together. Fudge, it may be explained to the unsophisticated, is a preparation
of chocolate, sugar, and cream, cooked, cooled, and cut into squares. As our fathers and mothers
pulled taffy, as our grandfathers and grandmothers conjured with maple sugar, and as their
parents worked the mysterious spell with some witchery of cookery to this generation unknown,
so is fudge in these piping times the worker of a strange witchery. Observe: Through a large
room, perhaps forty feet one way and twenty-five feet the other way, flits a young woman in
the summer twilight. She goes about humming, putting a vase in place here, straightening a
picture there, kicking down a flapping rug, or rearranging a chair; then she sits down and
turns on an electric light and pretends to read. But she does not read; the light shows her
something else in the room that needs attention, and she turns to that. Then she sits down
again, and again goes humming about the room. Suddenly the young woman rises and hurries out
of the room, and a footstep is heard on the porch, outside. A bell tinkles, and a maid appears,
and--

"Yes," she says. "I'll see if Miss Jeanette is at home!"

And then a rustle of skirts is heard on the stairway and Miss Jeanette enters with: "Why, Neal,
you are an early bird this evening--were you afraid the worm would escape? Well, it won't;
it's right here on the piano."

The young man's eyes,--good, clear, well-set, dark eyes that match his brown hair; eyes that
speak from the heart,--note how they dwell upon every detail of the opposing figure, caressing
with their shy surreptitious glances the girl's hair, her broad forehead, her lips; observe
how they flit back betimes to those ripe red lips, like bees that hover over a flower trembling
in the wind; how the eyes of the young man play about the strong chin, and the bewitching curves
of the neck and shoulders, and rise again to the hair, and again steal over the face, to the
strong shoulders, and again hurry back to the face lest some feature fade. This is not staring--it
is done so quickly, so furtively, so deftly withal as the minutes fly by, while the lips and
the teeth chatter on, that the stolen honey of these glances is stored away in the heart's
memory, all unknown to him who has gathered it.

An hour has passed now, while we have watched the restless eyes at their work, and what has
passed with the hour? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen--nothing; gibber, chatter, giggles, and
squeals--that is all. Grandma Barclay above stairs has her opinion of it, and wonders how girls
can be so addle-pated. In her day--but who ever lived long enough or travelled far enough or
inquired widely enough to find one single girl who was as wise, or as sedate, or as industrious,
or as meek, or as gentle, or as kind as girls were in her grandmother's day? No wonder indeed
that grandmothers are all married--for one could hardly imagine the young men of that day overlooking
such paragons of virtue and propriety as lived in their grandmothers' days. Fancy an old maid
grandmother with all those qualities of mind and heart that girls had in their grandmothers' days!

So the elder Mrs. Barclay in her room at the top of the stairs hears what "he said," "he said
he said," and what "she said she said," and what "we girls did," and what "you boys ought to
do," and what "would be perfectly lovely," and what "would be a lot of fun!" and so grandmother,
good soul, grows drowsy, closes her door, and goes to bed. She does not know that they are
about to sit down together on a sofa--not a long, straight, cold, formal affair, but a small,
rather snuggly sofa, with the dish between them. No, girls never did that in their grandmothers'
days, so of course who would imagine they would do so now? Who, indeed? But there they are,
and there is the dish between them, and two hands reaching into the same dish, must of course
collide. Collision is inevitable, and by carefully noting the repetitions of the collisions,
one may logically infer that the collisions are upon the whole rather pleasurable than otherwise;
and when it comes to the last piece of fudge in the dish,--the very last piece,--the astral
observer will see that there is just the slightest, the very slightest, quickest, most fleeting
little tussle of hands for it, and much laughter; and then the young woman rises quickly--also
note the slight pink flush in her cheeks, and she goes to her chair and folds her pretty hands
in her lap, and asks:--

"Well, do you like my fudge, Neal Ward? Is it as good as Belva Lockwood's? She puts nuts in
hers--I've eaten it; do you like it with nuts in it?"

"Not so well as this," says the boy.

The girl slips into the dining room, for a glass of water. See the eyes of the youth following
her. It is dusky in the dining room, and the youth longs for dusky places, but has not developed
courage enough to follow her. But he has courage enough to steady his eyes as she comes back
with the water, so that he can look into her blue eyes while you would count as much as one--two--three--slowly--four--slowly--five.
A long, long time, so long indeed that she wishes he would look just a second longer.

So at the end of the evening here stand Neal, and Jeanette, even as Adam and Eve stood in the
garden, talking of nothing in particular as they slowly move toward the door. "Yes, I suppose
so," she says, as Eve said and as Eve's daughters have said through all the centuries, looking
intently at the floor. And then Neal, suddenly finding the language of his line back to Adam,
looks up to say, "Oh, yes, I forgot--but have you read 'Monsieur Beaucaire'?" Now Adam said,
"Have you heard the new song that the morning stars are singing together?" and Priam asked
Helen if she would like to hear that new thing of Solomon's just out, and so as the ages have
rolled by, young gentlemen standing beside their adored but not declared ones have mixed literature
with love, and have tied wisdom up in a package of candy or wild honey, and have taken it to
the trysting place since the beginning of time. It is thus the poets thrive. And when she was
asked about the new song of the morning stars, Eve, though she knew it as she knew her litany,
answered no; and so did Eve's daughter, standing in the dimly lighted hallway of the Barclay
home in Sycamore Ridge; and so then and there being, these two made their next meeting sure.

In those last years of the last century John Barclay became a powerful man in this world--one
of the few hundred men who divided the material kingdoms of this earth among them. He was a
rich man who was turning his money into great political power. Senates listened to him, many
courts were his in fee simple, because he had bought and paid for the men who named the judges;
Presidents were glad to know what he thought, and when he came to the White House, reporters
speculated about the talk that went on behind the doors of the President's room, and the stock
market fluttered. If he desired a law, he paid for it and got it--not in a coarse illegal way,
to be sure, but through the regular conventional channels of politics, and if he desired to
step on a law, he stepped on it, and a court came running up behind him, and legalized his
transaction. He sneered at reformers, and mocked God, did John Barclay in those days. He grew
arrogant and boastful, and strutted in his power like a man in liquor with the vain knowledge
that he could increase the population of a state or a group of states, or he could shrivel
the prosperity of a section of the country by his whim. For by changing a freight rate he could
make wheat grow, where grass had nourished. By changing the rate again, he could beckon back
the wilderness. And yet, how small was his power; here beside him, cherished as the apple of
his eye, was his daughter, a slip of a girl, with blue eyes and fair hair, whose heart was
growing toward the light, as the hearts of young things grow, and he, with all of his power,
could only watch the mystery, and wonder at it. He was not displeased at what he saw. But it
was one of the few things in his consciousness over which he could find no way to assume control.
He stood in the presence of something that came from outside of his realm and ignored him as
the sun and the rain and the simple processes of nature ignored him.

"Jane," he said one night, when he was in the Ridge for the first time in many weeks,--a night
near the end of the summer when Jeanette and Neal Ward were vaguely feeling their way together,
"Jane, mother says that while we've been away Neal Ward has been here pretty often. You don't
suppose that--"

"Well, I've rather wondered about it myself a little," responded Jane. "Neal is such a fine
handsome young fellow."

"But, Jane," exclaimed Barclay, impatiently, as he rose to walk the rug, "Jennie is only a
child. Why, she's only--"

"Nineteen, John--she's a big girl now."

"I know, dear," he protested, "but that's absurdly young. Why--"

"Yes," she answered, "I was nearly twenty when I was engaged to you, and Jennie's not engaged
yet, nor probably even thinking seriously of it."

"Don't you think," cried Barclay, as he limped down the diagonal of the rug, "that you should
do something? Isn't it a little unusual? Why--"

"Well, John," smiled the wife, "I might do what mother did: turn the young man over to father!"
Barclay laughed, and she went on patiently: "It's not at all unusual, John, even if they do--that
is, if they are--you know; but they aren't, and Jennie is too much in love with her work at
school to quit that. But after all it's the American way; it was the way we did, dear, and
the way our mothers and fathers did, and unless you wish to change it--to Europeanize it, and
pick--"

"Ah, nonsense, Jane--of course I don't want that! Only I thought some way, if it's serious
she ought to--Oh, don't you know she ought to--"

Mrs. Barclay broke her smile with, "Of course she ought to, dear, and so ought I and so ought
mother when she married father and so ought my grandmother when she married grandpa--but did
we? Dear, don't you see the child doesn't realize it? If it is anything, it is growing in her
heart, and I wouldn't smudge it for the world, by speaking to her now--unless you don't like
Neal; unless you think he's too--unless you want a different boy. I mean some one of consequence?"

"Oh, no, it isn't that, Jane--it isn't that. Neal's all right; he's clean and he is honest--I
asked Bob Hendricks about him to-day, when we passed the boy chasing news for the Banner, and
Bob gives him a fine name." Barclay threw himself into a chair and sighed. "I suppose it's
just that I feel Jeanette's kind of leaving us out of it--that is all."

Jane went to him and patted his head gently, as she spoke: "That is nature, dear--the fawn
hiding in the woods; we must trust to Jennie's good sense, and the good blood in Neal. My,
but his sisters are proud of him! Last week Lizzie was telling me Neal's wages had been increased
to ten dollars a week--and I don't suppose their father in all of his life ever had that much
of a steady income. The things the family is planning to do with that ten dollars a week brought
tears of joy to my eyes. Neal's going to have his mother-in-law on his side, anyway--just as
you had yours. I know now how mother felt."

But John Barclay did not know how mother felt, and he did not care. He knew how father felt--how
Lycurgus Mason felt, and how the father of Mrs. Lycurgus Mason felt; he felt hurt and slighted,
and he could not repress a feeling of bitterness toward the youth. All the world loves a daughter-in-law,
but a father's love for a son-in-law is an acquired taste; some men never get it. And John
Barclay was called away the next morning to throttle a mill in the San Joaquin Valley, and
from there he went to North Dakota to stop the building of a competitive railroad that tapped
his territory; so September came, and with it Jeanette Barclay went back to school. The mother
wondered what the girl would do with her last night at home. She was clearly nervous and unsettled
all the afternoon before, and made an errand into town and came back with a perturbed face.
But after dinner the mother heard Jeanette at the telephone, and this is the one-sided dialogue
the mother caught: "Yes--this is Miss Barclay." "Oh, yes, I didn't recognize your voice at
first." "What meeting?" "Yes--yes." "And they are not going to have it?" "Oh, I see." "You
were--oh, I don't know. Of course I should have felt--well, I--oh, it would have been all right
with me. Of course." Then the voice cheered up and she said: "Why, of course--come right out.
I understand." A pause and then, "Yes, I know a man has to go where he is called." "Oh, she'll
understand--you know father is always on the wing." "No--why, no, of course not--mother wouldn't
think that of you. I'll tell her how it was." "All right, good-by--yes, right away." And Jeanette
Barclay skipped away from the telephone and ran to her mother to say, "Mother, that was Neal
Ward--he wants to come out, and he was afraid you'd think it rude for him to ask that way,
but you know he had a meeting to report and thought he couldn't come, and now they've postponed
the meeting, and I told him to come right out--wasn't that all right?"

And so out came Neal Ward, a likely-looking young man of twenty-one or maybe twenty-two--a
good six feet in height, with a straight leg, a square shoulder, and firm jaw, set like his
father's, and clean brown eyes that did not blink. And as Jeanette Barclay, with her mother's
height, and her father's quick keen features, and her Grandmother Barclay's eyes and dominant
figure, stood beside him in the doorway, Mrs. Jane Barclay thought a good way ahead, and Jeanette
would have blushed her face to a cinder if the mother had spoken her thoughts. The three, mother
and daughter and handsome young man, sat for a while together in the living room, and then
Jane, who knew the heart of youth, and did not fear it, said, "You children should go out on
the porch--it's a beautiful night; I'm going upstairs."

And now let us once more in our astral bodies watch them there in the light of the veiled moon--for
it is the last time that even we should see them alone. She is sitting on a balustrade, and
he is standing beside her, and their hands are close together on the stones. "Yes," he is saying,
"I shall be busy at the train to-morrow trying to catch the governor for an interview on the
railroad question, and may not see you."

"I wish you would throw the governor into the deep blue sea," she says, and he responds:--

"I wish I could." There is a silence, and then he risks it--and the thing he has been trying
to say comes out, "I wonder if you will do something for me, Jeanette?"

"Oh, I don't know--don't ask me anything hard--not very hard, Neal!"

The last word was all he cared for, and by what sleight of hand he slipped his fraternity pin
from his vest into her hand, neither ever knew.

"Will you?" he asks. "For me?"

She pins it at her throat, and smiles. Then she says, "Is this long enough--do you want it
back now?"

He shakes his head, and finally she asks, "When?" and then it comes out:--

"Never."

And her face reddens, and she does not speak. Their hands, on the wall, have met--they just
touch, that is all, but they do not hasten apart. A long, long time they are silent--an eternity
of a minute; and then she says, "We shall see in the morning."

And then another eternal minute rolls by, and the youth slips the rose from her hair--quickly,
and without disarranging a strand.

"Oh," she cries, "Neal!" and then adds, "Let me get you a pretty one--that is faded."

But no, he will have that one, and she stands beside him and pins it on his coat--stands close
beside him, and where her elbows and her arms touch him he is thrilled with delight. In the
shadow of the great porch they stand a moment, and her hand goes out to his.

"Well, Jeanette," he says, and still her hand does not shrink away, "well, Jeanette--it will
be lonesome when you go."

"Will it?" she asks.

"Yes--but I--I have been so happy to-night."

He presses her hand a little closer, and as she says, "I'm so glad," he says, "Good-by," and
moves down the broad stone steps. She stands watching him, and at the bottom he stops and again
says:--

"Well--good-by--Jeanette--I must go--I suppose." And she does not move, so again he says, "Good-by."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Youth," said Colonel Martin Culpepper to the assembled company in the ballroom of the Barclay
home as the clock struck twelve and brought in the twentieth century; "Youth," he repeated,
as he tugged at the bottom of Buchanan Culpepper's white silk vest, to be sure that it met
his own black trousers, and waved his free hand grandly aloft; "Youth," he reiterated, as he
looked over the gay young company at the foot of the hall, while the fiddlers paused with their
bows in the air, and the din of the New Year's clang was rising in the town; "Youth,--of all
the things in God's good green earth,--Youth is the most beautiful." Then he signalled with
some dignity to the leader of the orchestra, and the music began.

It was a memorable New Year's party that Jeanette Barclay gave at the dawn of this century.
The Barclay private car had brought a dozen girls down from the state university for the Christmas
holidays, and then had made a recruiting trip as far east as Cleveland and had brought back
a score more of girls in their teens and early twenties--for an invitation from the Barclays,
if not of much social consequence, had a power behind it that every father recognized. And
what with threescore girls from the Ridge, and young men from half a dozen neighbouring states,--and
young men are merely background in any social picture,--the ballroom was as pretty as a garden.
It was her own idea,--with perhaps a shade of suggestion from her father,--that the old century
should be danced out and the new one danced in with the pioneers of Garrison County set in
quadrilles in the centre of the floor, while the young people whirled around them in the two-step
then in vogue. So the Barclays asked a score or so of the old people in for dinner New Year's
Eve; and they kept below stairs until midnight. Then they filed into the ballroom, with its
fair fresh faces, its shrill treble note of merriment,--these old men and women, gray and faded,
looking back on the old century while the others looked into the new one. There came Mr. and
Mrs. Watts McHurdie in the lead, Watts in his best brown suit, and Mrs. Watts in lavender to
sustain her gray hair; General Ward, in his straight black frock coat and white tie, followed
with Mrs. Dorman, relict of the late William Dorman, merchant, on his arm; behind him came
the Brownwells, in evening clothes, and Robert Hendricks and his sister,--all gray-haired,
but straight of figure and firm of foot; Colonel Culpepper followed with Mrs. Mary Barclay;
the Lycurgus Masons were next in the file, and in their evening clothes they looked withered
and old, and Lycurgus was not sure upon his feet; Jacob Dolan in his faded blue uniform marched
in like a drum-major with the eldest Miss Ward; and the Carnines followed, and the Fernalds
followed them; and then came Judge and Mrs. Bemis--he a gaunt, sinister, parchment-skinned
man, with white hair and a gray mustache, and she a crumbling ruin in shiny satin bedecked
in diamonds. Down the length of the long room they walked, and executed an old-fashioned grand
march, such as Watts could lead, while the orchestra played the tune that brought cheers from
the company, and the little old man looked at the floor, while Mrs. McHurdie beamed and bowed
and smiled. And then they took their partners to step off the quadrille--when behold, it transpired
that in all the city orchestra, that had cost the Barclays a thousand dollars according to
town tradition, not one man could be found who could call off a quadrille. Then up spake John
Barclay, and stood him on a chair, and there, when the colonel had signalled for the music
to start, the voice of John Barclay rang out above the din, as it had not sounded before in
nearly thirty years. Old memories came rushing back to him of the nights when he used to ride
five and ten and twenty miles and play the cabinet organ to a fiddle's lead, and call off until
daybreak for two dollars. And such a quadrille as he gave them--four figures of it before he
sent them to their seats. There were "cheat or swing," the "crow's nest," "skip to my Loo,"--and
they all broke out singing, while the young people clapped their hands, and finally by a series
of promptings he quickly called the men into one line and the women into another, and then
the music suddenly changed to the Virginia reel. And so the dance closed for the old people,
and they vanished from the room, looking back at the youth and the happiness and warmth of
the place with wistful but not eager eyes; and as Jacob Dolan, in his faded blues and grizzled
hair and beard, disappeared into the dusk of the hallway, Jeanette Barclay, looking at her
new ring, patted it and said to Neal Ward: "Well, dear, the nineteenth century is gone! Now
let us dance and be happy in this one."

And so she danced the new year and the new century and the new life in, as happy as a girl
of twenty can be. For was she not a Junior at the state university, if you please? Was she
not the heir of all the ages, and a scandalous lot of millions besides, and what is infinitely
more important to a girl's happiness, was she not engaged, good and tight, and proud of it,
to a youth making twelve dollars every week whether it rained or not? What more could an honest
girl ask? And it was all settled, and so happily settled too, that when she had graduated with
her class at the university, and had spent a year in Europe--but that was a long way ahead,
and Neal had to go to the City with father and learn the business first. But business and graduation
and Europe were mere details--the important thing had happened. So when it was all over that
night, and the girls had giggled themselves to bed, and the house was dark, Jeanette Barclay
and her mother walked up the stairs to her room together. There they sat down, and Jeanette began--

"Neal said he told you about the ring?"

"Yes," answered her mother.

"But he did not show it to you--because he wanted me to be the first to see it."

"Neal's a dear," replied her mother. "So that was why? I thought perhaps he was bashful."

"No, mother," answered the girl, "no--we're both so proud of it." She kept her hand over the
ring finger, as she spoke, "You know those 'Short and Simple Annals' he's been doing for the
Star--well, he got his first check the day before Christmas, and he gave half of it to his
father, and took the other twenty-five dollars and bought this ring. I think it is so pretty,
and we are both real proud of it." And then she took her hand from the ring, and held her finger
out for her mother's eyes, and her mother kissed it. They were silent a moment; then the girl
rose and stood with her hand on the doorknob and cried: "I think it is the prettiest ring in
all the world, and I never want any other." Then she thought of mother, and flushed and ran away.

And we should not follow her. Rather let us climb Main Street and turn into Lincoln Avenue
and enter the room where Martin Culpepper sits writing the Biography of Watts McHurdie. He
is at work on his famous chapter, "Hymen's Altar," and we may look over his great shoulder
and see what he has written: "The soul caged in its prison house of the flesh looks forth,"
he writes, "and sees other chained souls, and hails them in passing like distant ships. But
soul only meets soul in some great passion of giving, whether it be man to his fellow-man,
to his God, or in the love of men and women; it matters not how the ecstasy comes, its root
is in sacrifice, in giving, in forgetting self and merging through abnegation into the source
of life in this universe for one sublime moment. For we may not come out of our prison houses
save to inhale the air of heaven once or twice, and then go scourged back to our dungeons.
Great souls are they who love the most, who breathe the deepest of heaven's air, and give of
themselves most freely."

CHAPTER XXIII

The next morning, before the guests were downstairs, Barclay, reading his morning papers before
the fireplace, stopped his daughter, who was going through the living room on some morning errand.

"Jeanette," said the father, as he drew her to his chair arm, "let me see it."

She brought the setting around to the outside of her finger, and gave him her hand. He looked
at it a moment, patted her hand, put the ring to his lips, and the two sat silent, choked with
something of joy and something of sorrow that shone through their brimming eyes. Thus Mary
Barclay found them. They looked up abashed, and she bent over them and stroked her son's hair
as she said:--

"John, John, isn't it fine that Jennie has escaped the curse of your millions?"

Barclay's heart was melted. He could not answer, so he nodded an assenting head. The mother
stooped to kiss her son's forehead, as she went on, "Not with all of your millions could you
buy that simple little ring for Jennie, John." And the father pressed his lips to the ring,
and his daughter snuggled tightly into his heart and the three mingled their joy together.

Two hours later Barclay and General Ward met on the bridge by the mill. It was one of those
warm midwinter days, when nature seems to be listening for the coming of spring. A red bird
was calling in the woods near by, and the soft south wind had spring in it as it blew across
the veil of waters that hid the dam. John Barclay's head was full of music, and he was lounging
across the bridge from the mill on his way home to try his new pipe organ. He had spent four
hours the day before at his organ bench, trying to teach his lame foot to keep up with his
strong foot. So when General Ward overhauled him, Barclay was annoyed. He was not the man to
have his purposes crossed, even when they were whims.

"I was just coming over to the mill to see you," said the general, as he halted in Barclay's path.

"All right, General--all right; what can I do for you?"

The general was as blunt a man as John Barclay. If Barclay desired no beating around the bush,
the general would go the heart of matters. So he said, "I want to talk about Neal with you."

Barclay knew that certain things must be said, and the two men sat in a stone seat in the bridge
wall, with the sun upon them, to talk it out then and there. "Well, General, we like Neal--we
like him thoroughly. And we are glad, Jane and I, and my mother too--she likes him; and I want
to do something for him. That's about all there is to say."

"Yes, but what, John Barclay--what?" exclaimed the general. "That's what I want to know. What
are you going to do for him? Make him a devil worshipper?"

"Well now, General, here--don't be too fast," Barclay smiled and drawled. He put his hands
on the warm rocks at his sides and flapped them like wing-tips as he went on: "Jeanette and
Neal have their own lives to live. They're sensible--unusually sensible. We didn't steal Neal,
any more than you stole Jeanette, General, and--"

"Oh, I understand that, John; that isn't the point," broke in the general. "But now that you've
got him, what are you going to do with him? Can't you see, John, he's my boy, and that I have
a right to know?"

"Now, General, will you let me do a little of this talking?" asked Barclay, impatiently. "As
I was saying, Jeanette and Neal are sensible, and money isn't going to make fools of them.
When the time comes and I'm gone, they'll take the divine responsibility--"

"The divine tommyrot!" cried the general; "the divine fiddlesticks! Why should they? What have
they done that they should have that thrust upon them like a curse; in God's name, John Barclay,
why should my Neal have to have that blot upon his soul? Can't they be free and independent?"

Barclay did not answer; he looked glumly at the floor, and kicked the cement with his heel.
"What would you have them do with the money when they get it," he growled, "burn it?"

"Why not?" snapped the general.

"Oh--I just thought I'd ask," responded Barclay.

The two men sat in silence. Barclay regarded conversation with the general in that mood as
arguing with a lunatic. Presently he rose, and stood before Ward and spoke rather harshly:
"What I am going to do is this--? and nothing more. Neal tells me he understands shorthand:
I know the boy is industrious, and I know that he is bright and quick and honest. That's all
he needs. I am going to take him into our company as a stockholder--with one share--a thousand-dollar
share, to be explicit; I'm going to give that to him, and that's all; then he's to be my private
secretary for three years at five thousand a year, so long as you must know, and then at the
end of that time, if he and Jennie are so minded, they're going to marry; and if he has any
business sense--of course you know what will happen. She is all we have, General--some one's
got to take hold of things."

As Barclay spoke General Ward grew white--his face was aquiver as his trembling voice cried
out: "Oh, God, John Barclay, and would you take my boy--my clean-hearted, fine-souled boy,
whom I have taught to fear God, and callous his soul with your damned money-making? How would
you like me to take your girl and blacken her heart and teach her the wiles of the outcasts?
And yet you're going to teach Neal to lie and steal and cheat and make his moral guide the
penal code instead of his father's faith. Shame on you, John Barclay--shame on you, and may
God damn you for this thing, John Barclay!" The old man trembled, but the sob that shook his
frame had no tears in it. He looked Barclay in the eyes without a tremor for an angry moment,
and then broke: "I am an old man, John; I can't interfere with Neal and Jeanette; it's their
life, not mine, and some way God will work it out; but," he added, "I've still got my own heart
to break over it--that's mine--that's mine."

He rose and faced the younger man a moment, and then walked quickly away. Barclay limped after
him, and went home. There he sat on his bench and made the great organ scream and howl and
bellow with rage for two hours.

When Neal Ward went to the City to live, he had a revelation of John Barclay as a man of moods.
The Barclay Neal Ward saw was an electric motor rather than an engine. The power he had to
perceive and to act seemed transmitted to him from the outside. At times he dictated letters
of momentous importance to the young man, which Neal was sure were improvised. Barclay relied
on his instincts and rarely changed a decision. He wore himself out every day, yet he returned
to his work the next day without a sign of fag. The young man found that Barclay had one curious
vanity--he liked to seem composed. Hence the big smooth mahogany table before him, with the
single paper tablet on it, and the rose--the one rose in the green vase in the centre of the
table. Visitors always found him thus accoutred. But to see him limping about from room to
room, giving orders in the great offices, dictating notes for the heads of the various departments,
to see him in the room where the mail was received, worrying it like a pup, was to see another
man revealed. He liked to have people from Sycamore Ridge call upon him, and the man who kept
door in the outer office--a fine gray-haired person, who had the manners of a brigadier--knew
so many people in Sycamore Ridge that Neal used to call him the City Directory. One day Molly
Brownwell called. She was the only person who ever quelled the brigadier; but when a woman
has been a social leader in a country town all of her life, she has a social poise that may
not be impressed by a mere brigadier. Mrs. Brownwell realized that her call was unusual, but
she refused to acknowledge it to him. Barclay seemed glad to see her, and as he was in one
of his mellow moods he talked of old times, and drew from a desk near the wall, which he rarely
opened, an envelope containing a tintype picture of Ellen. Culpepper. He showed it to her sister,
and they both sat silent for a time, and then the woman spoke.

"Well, John," she said, "that was a long time ago."

"Forty years, Molly--forty years."

When they came back to the world she said: "John, I am up here looking for a publisher. Father
has written a Biography of Watts, and collected all of his poems and things in it, and we thought
it might sell--Watts is so well known. But the publishers won't take it. I want your advice
about it."

Barclay listened to her story, and then wheeled in his chair and exclaimed, "Can Adrian publish
that book?"

"Yes," she answered tentatively; "that is, he could if it didn't take such an awful lot of money."

After discussing details with her, Barclay called Neal Ward and said:--

"Get up a letter to Adrian Brownwell asking him to print for me three thousand copies of the
colonel's book, at one dollar and fifty cents a copy, and give seventy-five per cent of the
profits to Colonel Culpepper. We'll put that book in every public library in this country.
How's that?" And he looked at the tintype and said, "Bless her dear little heart."

"Neal," asked Barclay, as Mrs. Brownwell left the room, "how old are you? I keep forgetting."
When the young man answered twenty-five, Barclay, who was putting away the tintype picture,
said, "And Jeanette will be twenty-three at her next birthday." He closed the desk and looked
at the youth bending over his typewriter and sighed. "Been going together off and on five or
six years--I should say."

Neal nodded. Barclay put his hand on his chin and contemplated the young man a moment. "Ever
have any other love affair, son?"

The youngster coloured and looked up quickly with a puzzled look and did not reply.

Barclay cut in with, "Well, son, I'm glad to find you don't lie easily." He laughed silently.
"Jennie has--lots of them. When she was six she used to cry for little Watts Fernald, and they
quarrelled like cats and dogs, and when she was ten there was an Irish boy--Finnegan I think
his name was--who milked the cow, whom she adored, and when she was fourteen or so, it was
some boy in the high school who gave her candy until her mother had to shoo him off, and I
don't know how many others." He paused for a few seconds and then went on, "But she's forgotten
them--that's the way of women." His eyes danced merrily as he continued, while he scratched
his head: "But with us men--it's different. We never forget." He chuckled a moment, and then
his face changed as he said, "Neal, I wish you'd go into the mail room and see if the noon
mail has anything in it from that damn scoundrel who's trying to start a cracker factory in
St. Louis--I hate to bother to smash him right now when we're so busy."

But it so happened that the damn scoundrel thought better of his intention and took fifty thousand
for his first thought, and Neal Ward, being one of the component parts of an engaged couple,
went ahead being sensible about it. All engaged couples, of course, resolve to be sensible
about it. And for two years and a half--during nineteen one and two and part of nineteen three--Jeanette
Barclay and Neal Ward had tried earnestly and succeeded admirably (they believed) in being
exceedingly sensible about everything. Jeanette had gone through school and was spending the
year in Europe with her mother, and she would be home in May; and in June--in June of 1904--why,
the almanac stopped there; the world had no further interest, and no one on earth could imagine
anything after that. For then they proposed not to be sensible any longer.

In the early years of this century--about 1902, probably--John Barclay paid an accounting company
twenty-five thousand dollars--more money than General Ward and Watts McHurdie and Martin Culpepper
and Jacob Dolan had saved in all their long, industrious, frugal, and useful lives--to go over
his business, install a system of audits and accounts, and tell him just how much money he
was worth. After a score of men had been working for six months, the accounting company made
its report. It was put in terms of dollars and cents, which are fleeting and illusive terms,
and mean much in one country and little in another, signify great wealth at one time and mere
affluence in another period. So the sum need not be set down here. But certain interesting
details of the report may be set down to illuminate this narrative. For instance, it indicates
that John Barclay was a man of some consequence, when one knows that he employed more men in
that year than many a sovereign state of this Union employed in its state and county and city
governments. It signifies something to learn that he controlled more land growing wheat than
any of half a dozen European kings reign over. It means something to realize that in those
years of his high tide John Barclay, by a few lines dictated to Neal Ward, could have put bread
out of the reach of millions of his fellow-creatures. And these are evidences of material power--these
men he hired, these lands he dominated, and this vast store of food that he kept. So it is
fair to assume that if this is a material world, John Barclay's fortune was founded upon a
rock. He and his National Provisions Company were real. They were able to make laws; they were
able to create administrators of the law; and they were able to influence those who interpreted
the law. Barclay and his power were substantial, palpable, and translatable into terms of money,
of power, of vital force.

And then one day, after long years of growth in the under-consciousnesses of men, an idea came
into full bloom in the world. It had no especial champions. The people began to think this
idea. That was all. Now life reduced to its lowest terms consists of you and him and me. Put
us on a desert island together--you and him and me--and he can do nothing without you and me--except
he kill us, and then he is alone; even then we haunt him, so our influence still binds him.
You can do nothing without him and me, and I can do nothing without you and him. Not that you
and he will hold me; not that you will stop me; but what you think and say will bind me to
your wishes tighter than any chains you might forge. What you and he think is more powerful
than all the material forces of this universe. For what you and he think is public opinion.
It is not substantial; it is not palpable. It may not readily be translated into terms of money,
or power, or vital force. But it crushes all these things before it. When this public opinion
rises sure and firm and strong, no material force on this earth can stop it. For a time it
may be dammed and checked. For a day or a week or a year or a decade it may be turned from
its channel; yet money cannot hold it; arms cannot hold it; cunning cannot baffle it. For it
is God moving among men. Thus He manifests Himself in this earth. Through the centuries, amid
the storm and stress of time, often muffled, often strangled, often incoherent, often raucous
and inarticulate with anguish, but always in the end triumphant, the voice of the people is
indeed the voice of God!

Nearly a dozen years had passed since the Russian painted the picture of John Barclay, which
hangs in the public library of Sycamore Ridge, and in that time the heart of the American people
had changed. Barclay was beginning to feel upon him, night and day, the crushing weight of
popular scorn. He called the idea envy, but it was not envy. It was the idea working in the
world, and the weight of the scorn was beginning to crumple his soul; for this idea that the
people were thinking was finding its way into newspapers, magazines, and books. They were beginning
to question the divine right of wealth to rule, because it was wealth--an idea that Barclay
could not comprehend even vaguely. The term honest wealth, which was creeping into respectable
periodicals, was exceedingly annoying to him. For the very presence of the term seemed to indicate
that there was such a thing as dishonest wealth,--an obvious absurdity; and when he addressed
the students of the Southwestern University at their commencement exercises in 1902, his address
attracted considerable attention because it deplored the modern tendency in high places toward
socialism and warned the students that a nation of iconoclasts would perish from the earth.
But the people went on questioning the divine right of wealth to rule. In the early part of
1903 Barclay was astounded at the action of a score of his senators and nearly a hundred of
his congressmen, who voted for a national law prohibiting the giving of railroad rebates. He
was assured by all of them that it was done to satisfy temporary agitation, but the fact that
they voted for the law at all, as he explained to Senator Myton, at some length and with some
asperity, was a breach of faith with "interests in American politics which may not safely be
ignored." "And what's more," he added angrily, "this is a personal insult to me. That law hits
my Door Strip."

And then out of the clear sky like a thunderbolt, not from an enemy, not from any clique or
crowd he had fought, but from the government itself, during the last days of Congress came
a law creating a Department of Commerce and Labour at Washington, a law giving federal inspectors
the right to go through books of private concerns. Barclay was overwhelmed with amazement.
He raged, but to no avail; and his wrath was heated by the rumours printed in all the newspapers
that Barclay and the National Provisions Company were to be the first victims of the new law.
Mrs. Barclay and Jeanette were going to Europe in the spring of 1903, and Barclay on the whole
was glad of it. He wished the decks cleared for his fight; he felt that he must not have Jane
at his elbow holding his hand from malice in the engagement that was coming, and when he left
them on the boat, he spent a week scurrying through the East looking for some unknown enemy
in high financial circles who might be back of the government's determination to move against
the N.P.C. He felt sure he could uncover the source of his trouble--and then, either fight
his enemy or make terms. It did not occur to Barclay that he could not find a material, palpable,
personal object upon which to charge or with which to capitulate. But he found nothing, and
crossed the Alleghanies puzzled.

When he got home, he learned that a government inspector, one H. S. Smith, was beginning the
investigation of the Provisions Company's books in St. Paul, Omaha, Chicago, and Denver. Barclay
learned that Smith had secured some bills of lading that might not easily be explained. Incidentally,
Barclay learned that an attempt had been made, through proper channels, to buy Smith, and he
was nonplussed to learn that Smith was not purchasable. Then to end the whole matter, Barclay
wrote to Senator Myton, directing him to have Smith removed immediately. But Myton's reply,
which was forwarded to Barclay at Sycamore Ridge, indicated that "the orders under which Smith
is working come from a higher source than the department."

Barclay's scorn of Inspector Smith--a man whom he could buy and sell a dozen times from one
day's income from his wealth--flamed into a passion. He tore Myton's letter to bits, and refreshed
his faith in the god of Things As They Are by garroting a mill in Texas. While the Texas miller
was squirming, Barclay did not consider Inspector Smith consciously, but in remote places in
his mind always there lived the scorned person whom Barclay knew was working against him.

From time to time in the early summer the newspapers contained definite statements, authorized
from Washington with increasing positiveness, that the cordon around the N.P.C. was tightening.
In July Barclay's scorn of Inspector Smith grew into disquietude; for a letter from Judge Bemis,
of the federal court,--written up in the Catskills,--warned him that scorn was not the only
emotion with which he should honour Smith. After reading Bemis' confidential and ambiguous
scrawl, Barclay drummed for a time with his hard fingers on the mahogany before him, stared
at the print sketches of machinery above him, and paced the floor of his office with the roar
of the mill answering something in his angry heart. He could not know that the tide was running
out. He went to his telephone and asked for a city so far away that when he had finished talking
for ten minutes, he had spent enough money to keep General Ward in comfort for a month. Neal
Ward, sitting in his room, heard Barclay say: "What kind of a damn bunco game were you fellows
putting up on me in 1900? You got my money; that's all right; I didn't squeal at the assessment,
did I?" Young Ward in the pause closed his door. But the bull-like roar of Barclay came through
the wood between them in a moment, and he heard: "Matter enough--here's this fellow Smith bullying
my clerks out in Omaha, and nosing around the St. Paul office; what right has he got? Who is
he, anyway--who got him his job? I wrote to Myton to get him removed, or sent to some other
work, and Myton said that the White House was back of him. I wish you'd go over to Washington,
and tell them who I am and what we did for you in '96 and 1900; we can't stand this. It's a
damned outrage, and I look to you to stop it." In a moment Ward heard Barclay exclaim: "You
can't--why, that's a hell of a note! What kind of a fellow is he, anyway? Tell him I gave half
a million to the party, and I've got some rights in this government that a white man is bound
to respect--or does he believe in taking your money and letting you whistle?" A train rolling
by the mill drowned Barclay's voice, but at the end of the conversation Ward heard Barclay
say: "Well, what's a party good for if it doesn't protect the men who contribute to its support?
You simply must do it. I look to you for it. You got my good money, and it's up to you to get
results."

There was some growling, and then Barclay hung up the receiver. But he was mad all day, and
dictated a panic interview to Ward, which Ward was to give to the Associated Press when they
went to Chicago the next day. In the interview, Barclay said that economic conditions were
being disturbed by half-baked politicians, and that values would shrink and the worst panic
in the history of the country would follow unless the socialistic meddling with business was
stopped.

The summer had deepened to its maturest splendour before Barclay acknowledged to himself his
dread of the City. For he began to feel a definite discomfiture at the panorama of his pictures
on the news-stands in connection with the advertising of the Sunday newspapers and magazines.
The newspapers were blazoning to the whole country that the Economy Door Strip was a blind
for taking railroad rebates, and everywhere he met the report of Inspector Smith that the National
Provisions Company's fifty-pound sack of Barclay's Best contained but forty-eight pounds and
ten ounces; also that Barclay had been taking three ounces out of the pound cartons of breakfast
food, and that the cracker packages were growing smaller, while the prices were not lowered.
Even in Sycamore Ridge the reporters appeared with exasperating regularity, and the papers
were filled with diverting articles telling of the Barclays' social simplicity and rehashing
old stories of John Barclay's boyhood. His attempt to stop the investigation of the National
Provisions Company became noised around Washington, and the news of his failure was frankly
given out from the White House. This inspired a cartoon from McCutcheon in the Chicago Tribune,
representing the President weighing a flour sack on which was printed "Barclay's Worst," with
Barclay behind the President trying to get his foot on the scales.

All of his life Barclay had been a fighter; he liked to hit and dodge or get hit back. His
struggles in business and in the business part of politics had been with tangible foes, with
material things; and his weapons had been material things: coercion, bribery (more or less
sugar-coated), cheating, and often in these later years the roar of his voice or the power
of his name. But now, facing the formless, impersonal thing called public opinion, hitherto
unknown in his scheme of things, he was filled with uncertainty and indecision.

One autumn day, after sending three stenographers home limp and weary with directions for his
battles, Barclay strayed into McHurdie's shop. The general and Dolan were the only members
of the parliament present that afternoon, besides Watts. Barclay nodded at the general without
speaking, and Dolan said:--

"Cool, ain't it? Think it will freeze?"

Barclay took a chair, and when Dolan and Ward saw that he had come for a visit, they left.

"Watts," asked Barclay, after the others had gone, and the little man at the bench did not
speak, "Watts, what's got into the people of this country? What have I done that they should
begin pounding me this way?"

McHurdie turned a gentle smile on his visitor, knowing that Barclay would do the talking. Barclay
went on: "Here are five suits in county courts in Texas against me; a suit in Kansas by the
attorney-general, five or ten in the Dakotas, three in Nebraska, one or two in each of the
Lake states, and the juries always finding against me. I haven't changed my methods. I'm doing
just what I've done for fifteen years. I've had lots of lawsuits before, with stockholders
and rival companies and partners, and millers and all that--but this standing in front of the
mob and fighting them off--why? Why? What have I done? These county attorneys and attorneys-general
seem to delight in it--now why? They didn't used to; it used to be that only cranks like old
Phil Ward even talked of such things, and people laughed at them; and now prosecuting attorneys
actually do these things, and people reelect them. Why? What's got into the people? What am
I doing that I haven't been doing?"

"Maybe the people are growing honest, John," suggested the harness maker amiably.

Barclay threw back his head and roared: "Naw--naw--it isn't that; it's the damn newspapers.
That's what it is! They're what's raising the devil. But why? Why? What have I done? Why, they
have even bulldozed some of my own federal judges--my own men, Watts, my own men; men whose
senators came into my office with their hats in their hands and asked permission to name these
judges. Now why?" He was silent awhile and then began chuckling: "But I fixed 'em the other
day. Did you see that article in all the papers briefed out of New York about how that professor
had said that the N.P.C. was an economic necessity? I did that, Watts: and got it published
in the magazines, too--and our advertising agents made all the newspapers that get our advertising
print it--and they had to." Barclay laughed. After a moody silence he continued: "And you know
what I could do. I could finance a scheme to buy out the meat trust and the lumber trust, and
I could control every line of advertising that goes into the damn magazines--and I could buy
the paper trust too, and that would fix 'em. The Phil Wards are not running this country yet.
The men who make the wealth and maintain the prosperity have got to run it in spite of the
long-nosed reformers and socialists. You know, Watts, that we men who do things have a divine
responsibility to keep the country off the rocks. But she's drifting a lot just now, and they're
all after me, because I'm rich. That's all, Watts, just because I've worked hard and earned
a little money--that's why." And so he talked on, until he was tired, and limped home and sat
idly in front of his organ, unable to touch the keys.

Then he turned toward the City to visit his temporal kingdom. There in the great Corn Exchange
Building his domain was unquestioned. There in the room with the mahogany walls he could feel
his power, and stanch the flow of his courage. There he was a man. But alas for human vanity!
When he got to the City, he found the morning papers full of a story of a baby that had died
from overeating breakfast food made at his mills and adulterated with earth from his Missouri
clay banks, as the coroner had attested after an autopsy; and a miserable county prosecutor
was looking for John Barclay. So he hid all the next day in his offices, and that evening took
Neal Ward on a special train in his private car, on a roundabout way home to Sycamore Ridge.

It was a wretched homecoming for so great and successful a man as Barclay. Yet he with all
his riches, with all his material power, even he longed for the safety of home, as any hunted
thing longs for his lair. On the way he paced the diagonals of the little office room in his
car, like a caged jackal. The man had lost his anchor; the things which his life had been built
on would not hold him. Money--men envied the rich nowadays, he said, and the rich man had no
rights in the courts or out of them; friends--they had gone up in the market, and he could
not afford them; politics--he had found it a quicksand. So he jabbered to Neal Ward, his secretary,
and pulled down the curtains of his car on the station side of every stop the train made in
its long day's journey.

CHAPTER XXIV

It was nearly midnight when the special train pulled into Sycamore Ridge, and Neal Ward hurried
home. He went to his room, and found there a letter and a package, both addressed in Jeanette's
handwriting. The letter was only a note that read:--

    "MY DEAREST BOY: I could not wait to send it for your Christmas
    present. So I am sending it the very day it is finished. I hope it
    will bring me close to you--into your very heart and keep me there.
    I have kissed it--for I knew that you would.

    "Your loving JEANETTE."

He tore open the package and found a miniature of Jeanette done on ivory--that seemed to bring
her into the room, and illumine it with her presence. The thing bloomed with life, and his
heart bounded with joy as his eyes drank the beauty of it. His father called from below stairs,
and the youth went down holding the note and the miniature in his hands. Before the father
could speak, the son held out the picture, and Philemon Ward looked for a moment into the glowing
faces--that of the picture and that of the living soul before him, and hesitated before speaking.

"I got your wire--" he began.

"But isn't it beautiful, father--wonderful!" broke in the son.

The father assented kindly and then continued: "So I thought I'd sit up for you. I had to talk
with you." The son's face looked an interrogation, and the father answered, "Read that, Neal--"
handing his son a letter in a rich linen envelope bearing in the corner the indication that
it was written at the Army and Navy Club in Washington. The lovely face in the miniature lay
on the table between them and smiled up impartially at father and son as the young man drew
out the letter and read:--

    "MY DEAR GENERAL WARD: This letter will introduce to you Mr. H. S.
    Smith, an inspector from the Bureau of Commerce and Labour, who has
    been working upon evidence connected with the National Provisions
    Company. I happened to be at luncheon this afternoon with a man of
    the highest official authority, whose name it would be bad faith to
    divulge, but whom I know you respect, even if you do not always
    agree with him. I mentioned your name and the part you took in the
    battle of the Wilderness, and my friend was at once interested,
    though, of course, he had known you by name and fame for forty
    years. One word led to another, as is usual in these cases, and my
    friend mentioned the fact that your son, Neal Dow Ward, is secretary
    to John Barclay, and in a position to verify certain evidence which
    the government now has in the N.P.C. matter. I happen to know that
    the government is exceedingly anxious to be exactly correct in every
    charge it makes against this Company, and hence I am writing to you.
    Your son can do a service to his country to-day by telling the truth
    when he is questioned by Inspector Smith, to my mind as important as
    that you did in the Wilderness. Inspector Smith has a right to
    question him, and will do so, and I have promised my friend here to
    ask you to counsel with your son, and beg him in the name of that
    good citizenship for which you have always stood, and for which you
    offered your life, to tell the simple truth. As a comrade and a
    patriot, I have no doubt what you will do, knowing the facts."

Neal Ward put his hand on the table, with the letter still in his fingers. "Father," he asked
blankly, "do you know what that means?"

"Yes, Neal, I think I understand; it means that to-morrow morning will decide whether you are
a patriot or a perjurer, my boy--a patriot or a perjurer!" The general, who was in his shirt-sleeves
and collarless, rose, and putting his hands behind him, backed to the radiator to warm them.

"But, father--father," exclaimed the boy, "how can I? What I learned was in confidence. How can I?"

The father saw the anguish in his son's face, and did not reply at once. "Is it crooked, Neal?"

"Yes," replied the son, and then added: "So bad I was going to get out of it, as soon as Jeanette
came home. I couldn't stand it--for a life, father. But I promised to stay three years, and
try, and I think I should keep my promise."

The father and son were silent for a time, and then the father spoke. "And you love her with
all your life--don't you, Nealie?" The son was gazing intently at the miniature and nodded.
At length the father sighed. "My poor, poor boy--my poor, poor boy." He walked to the table
on which were his books and papers, and then stood looking at the girl's face. "You couldn't
explain it to her, I suppose?" he asked.

"No," replied the son. "No; she adores her father; to her he is perfect. And I don't blame
her, for he is good--you can't know how good, to her." Again they stood in silence. The son
looked up from the picture and said, "And you know, father, what the world would think of me--a
spy, an informer--an ingrate?"

The old man did not reply, and the son shook his head and his face twitched with the struggle
that was in him. Suddenly the father walked to the son and cried: "And yet you must, Neal Ward--you
must. Is there any confidence in God's world so sacred as your duty to mankind? Is there any
tie, even that of your wife, so sacred as that which binds you to humanity? I left your mother,
my sweetheart, and went out to fight, with the chance of never seeing her again. I went out
and left her for the same country that is calling you now, Neal!" The boy looked up with agony
on his face. The father paused a moment and then went on: "Your soul is your soul--not John
Barclay's, my boy--not Jeanette Barclay's--but yours--yours, Neal, to blight or to cherish,
as you will." A moment later he added, "Don't you see, son--don't you see, Neal?" The son shook
his head and looked down, and did not answer. The father put his arm about the son. "Boy, boy,"
he cried, "boy, you've got a a man's load on you now--a man's load. To-morrow you can run away
like a coward; you can dodge and lie like a thief, or you can tell the simple truth, as it
is asked of you, like a man--the simple truth like a man, Neal."

"Yes, I know, father--I see it all--but it is so hard--for her sake, father."

The old man was silent, while the kitchen clock ticked away a minute and then another and a
third. Then he took his arm away from his son, and grasped the boy's hand. "Oh, little boy--little
boy," he cried, "can't I make you see that the same God who has put this trial upon you will
see you through it, and that if you fail in this trial, your soul will be crippled for life,
and that no matter what you get in return for your soul--you will lose in the bargain? Can't
you see it, Nealie--can't you see it? All my life I have been trying to live that way, and
I have tried to make you see it--so that you would be ready for some trial like this."

The son rose, and the two men stood side by side, clasping hands. The boy suddenly tore himself
loose, and throwing his hands in the air, wailed, "Oh, God--it is too hard--I can't, father--I
can't."

And with the miniature in his hand he walked from the room, and Philemon Ward went to his closet
and wrestled through the night. At dawn his son sat reading and re-reading a letter. Finally
he pressed another letter to his lips, and read his own letter again. It read:--

    "MY DARLING GIRL: This is the last letter I shall ever mail to you,
    perhaps. I can imagine no miracle that will bring us together again.
    My duty, as I see it, stands between us. The government inspector is
    going to put me under oath to-morrow--unless I run, and I
    won't--and question me about your father's business. What I must
    tell will injure him--maybe ruin him. I am going to tell your father
    what I am going to do before I do it. But by all the faith I have
    been taught in a God--and you know I am not pious, and belong to no
    church--I am forced to do this thing. Oh, Jeanette, Jeanette--if I
    loved you less, I would take you for this life alone and sell my
    soul for you; but I want you for an eternity--and in that eternity I
    want to bring you an unsoiled soul. Good-by--oh, good-by.
                                                                 NEAL."

The next morning when Neal Ward went out of the office at the mill, John Barclay sat shivering
with wrath and horror. Every second stamped him with its indelible finger, as a day, or a month,
puts its stain on other men.

Another morning, a week later, as he sat at his desk, a telegram from his office manager in
the city fluttered in his hands. It read: "We are privately advised that you were indicted
by the federal grand jury last night--though we do not know upon what specific charge--our
friend B. will advise us later in the day."

It was a gray December day, and a thin film of ice covered the mill-pond. Barclay looked there
and shuddered away from the thought that came to him. He was alone in the mill. He longed for
his wife and daughter, and yet when he thought of their homecoming to disgrace, he shook with
agony. Over and over again he whispered the word "indicted." The thought of his mother and
her sorrow broke him down. He locked the door, dropped heavily into his chair, and bowed his
head on his crossed arms. And then--

What, tears? Tears for Mr. Barclay?--for himself? Look back along the record for his life:
there are many tears charged to his account, but none for his own use. Back in the seventies
there are tears of Miss Culpepper, charged to Mr. Barclay, and one heart-break for General
Hendricks. Again in the eighties there is sorrow for Mr. Robert Hendricks, and more tears for
Mrs. Brownwell, that was Miss Culpepper--all charged to the account of Mr. Barclay; and in
the early nineties there are some manly tears for Martin F. Culpepper, also charged to Mr.
Barclay--but none before for his own use. Are they, then, tears of repentance? No, not tears
for the recording angel, not good, man's size, soul-washing tears of repentance, but miserable,
dwarf, useless, self-pitying, corroding tears--tears of shame and rage, for the proud, God-mocking,
man-cheating, powerful, faithless, arrogant John Barclay, dealer in the Larger Good.

And so with his head upon his arms, and his arms upon his desk,--a gray-clad, gray-haired,
slightly built, time-racked little figure,--John Barclay strained his soul and wrenched his
body and tried in vain to weep.

CHAPTER XXV

Down comes the curtain. Only a minute does John Barclay sit there with his head in his arms,
and then, while you are stretching your legs, or reading your programme, or looking over the
house to see who may be here, up rises John Barclay, and while the stage carpenters are setting
the new scene, he is behind there telephoning to Chicago, to Minneapolis, to Omaha, to Cleveland,
to Buffalo,--he fairly swamps the girl with expensive long-distance calls,--trying to see if
there is not some way to stop the filing of that indictment. For to him the mere indictment
advertises to mankind that money is not power, and with him and with all of his caste and class
a confession of weakness is equivalent to a confession of wrong. For where might makes right,
as it does in his world, weakness spells guilt, and with all the people jeering at him, with
the press saying: "Aha, so they have got Mr. Barclay, have they? Well, if all his money and
all his power could not prevent an indictment, he must be a pretty tough customer,"--with the
public peering into his private books and papers in a lawsuit, confirming as facts all that
they had read in the newspapers, in short with the gold plating of respectability rubbed off
his moral brass, he feels the crushing weight of the indictment, as he limps up and down his
room at the mill and frets at the long-distance operator for being so slow with his calls.

But he is behind the scenes now; and so is Neal Ward, walking the streets of Chicago, looking
for work on a newspaper, and finally finding it. And so are Mrs. Jane Barclay and Miss Barclay,
as they sail away on their ten days' cruise of the Mediterranean. And while the orchestra plays
and the man in the middle of row A of the dress circle edges out of his seat and in again,
we cannot hear John Barclay sigh when the last telephone call is answered, and he finds that
nothing can be done. And he is not particularly cheered by the knowledge that the Associated
Press report that very afternoon is sending all over the world the story of the indictment.
But late in the afternoon Judge Bemis, in whose court the indictment was found, much to his
chagrin, upon evidence furnished by special counsel sent out from Washington--Judge Bemis tells
him, as from one old friend to another, that the special counsellor isn't much of a lawyer.
The pleasant friendly little rip-saw laugh of the judge over the telephone nearly a thousand
miles away is not distinct enough to be heard across the stage even if the carpenters were
not hammering, and the orchestra screaming, and the audience buzzing; but that little laugh
of his good friend, Judge Bemis, was the sweetest sound John Barclay had heard in many a day.
It seemed curious that he should so associate it, but that little laugh seemed to drown the
sound of a clicking key in a lock--a large iron lock, that had been rattling in his mind since
noon. For even in the minds of the rich and the great, even in the minds of men who fancy they
are divinely appointed to parcel out to their less daring brethren the good things of this
world, there is always a child's horror of the jail. So when Mr. Barclay, who was something
of a lawyer himself, heard his good friend, Judge Bemis, laugh that pleasant little friendly
laugh behind the scenes, the heart of Mr. Barclay gave a little pulse-beat of relief if not of joy.

But an instant later the blight of the indictment was over him again. Hammer away, and scream
away, and buzz away with all your might, you noises of the playhouse; let us not hear John
Barclay hastening across the bridge just before the early winter sunset comes, that he may
intercept the Index and the Banner in the front yard of the Barclay home, before his mother
sees them. Always heretofore he has been glad to have her read of his achievements, in the
hope that she would come to approve them, and to view things as he saw them--his success and
his power and his glory. But to-night he hides the paper under his gray coat and slips into
the house. She and her son sit down to dinner alone. This must be a stage dinner they are eating--though
it is all behind the scenes; for Mr. Barclay is merely going through the empty form of eating.
"No, thank you," for the roast. "Why, Mr. Barclay did not touch his soup!" "Well," says the
cook, tasting it critically, "that's strange." And "No, thank you" for the salad, and "Not
any pie to-night, Clara." "What--none of the mince pie, John? Why, I went out in the kitchen
and made it for you myself." "Well, a little."

Heigh-ho! We sigh, and we drum on our table-cloth with our fingers, and we are trying to find
some way to tell something. We have been a bad boy, maybe--a bad little boy, and must own up;
that is part of our punishment--the hardest part perhaps, even with the curtain down, even
with the noise in front, even with the maid gone, even when a mother comes and strokes our
head, as we sit idly at the organ bench, unable to sound a key. Shall the curtain go up now?
Shall we sit gawking while a boy gropes his way out of a man's life, back through forty years,
and puts his head in shame and sorrow against a mother's breast? How he stumbles and falters
and halts, as the truth comes out--and it must come out; on the whole the best thing there
is to say of John Barclay on that fateful December day in the year of our Lord 1903 is that
he did not let his mother learn the truth from any lips but his. And so it follows naturally,
because he was brave and kind, that instead of having to strengthen her, she sustained him--she
in her seventies, he in his fifties.

"My poor dear child," she said, "I know--I know. But don't worry, John--don't worry. I don't
mind. Jane won't mind, I am sure, and I know Jennie will understand. It isn't what even we
who love you think of you, John--it is what you are that counts. Oh, Johnnie, Johnnie, maybe
you could serve your country and humanity in jail--by showing the folly and the utter uselessness
of all this money-getting, just as your father served it by dying. I would not mind if it made
men see that money isn't the thing--if it made you see it, my boy; if you could come out of
a jail with that horrible greed for money purged from you--"

But no--we will not peep behind the curtain; we will not dwell with John Barclay as he walked
all night up and down the great living room of his home. And see, the footlights have winked
at the leader of the orchestra, to let him know he is playing too long; observe, how quickly
the music dies down--rather too quickly, for the clatter of cast iron is heard on the stage,
and the sound of hurried footsteps is audible, as of some one moving rapidly about behind the
curtain. The rattling iron you hear is the stove in Watts McHurdie's shop; they have just set
it up, and got it red hot; for it is a cold day, that fifteenth day of December, 1903, and
the footsteps you hear are those of the members of the harness shop parliament.

Ah! There goes the curtain, and there sits Watts astraddle of his bench, working with all his
might, for he has an order to sew sleigh-bells on a breast strap, for some festivity or another;
and here sits the colonel, and over there the general, and on his home-made chair Jacob Dolan
is tilted back, warming his toes at the stove. They are all reading--all except Watts, who
is working; on the floor are the Chicago and St. Louis evening papers, and the Omaha and Kansas
City morning papers. And on the first pages of all of these papers are pictures of John Barclay.
There is John Barclay in the Bee, taken in his Omaha office by the Bee's own photographer--a
new picture of Mr. Barclay, unfamiliar to the readers of most newspapers. It shows the little
man standing by a desk, smiling rather benignly with his sharp bold eyes fixed on the camera.
There is a line portrait of Mr. Barclay in the Times, one of recent date, showing the crow's-feet
about the eyes, the vertical wrinkle above the nose, and the furtive mouth, hard and naked,
and the square mean jaw, that every cartoonist of Barclay has emphasized for a dozen years.
And there are other pictures of Mr. Barclay in the papers on the floor, and the first pages
of the papers are filled with the news of the Barclay indictment. All over this land, and in
Europe, the news of that indictment caused a sensation. In the Times, there on the floor, is
an editorial comment upon the indictment of Barclay cabled from London, another from Paris,
and a third from Berlin. It was a big event in the world, an event of more than passing note--this
sudden standing up of one of the richest men of his land, before the front door of a county
jail. Big business, and little business that apes big business, dropped its jaw. The world
is not accustomed to think of might making wrong, so when a Charles I or a Louis XVI or a John
Barclay comes to harm, the traditions of the world are wrenched. Men say: "How can these things
be--if might makes right? Here is a case where might and right conflict--how about it? Jails
are for the poor, not for the rich, because the poor are wrong and the rich are right, and
no just man made perfect by a million should be in jail."

And so while the members of the parliament in Watts McHurdie's shop read and were disturbed
at the strange twist of events, the whole world was puzzled with them, and in unison with Jacob
Dolan, half the world spoke, "I see no difference in poisoning breakfast foods and poisoning
wells, and it's no odds to me whether a man pinches a few ounces out of my flour sack, or steals
my chickens."

And the other half of the world was replying with Colonel Culpepper, "Oh, well, Jake, now that's
all right for talk; but in the realms of high finance men are often forced to be their own
judges of right and wrong, and circumstances that we do not appreciate, cannot understand,
in point of fact, nor comprehend, if I may say so, intervene, and make what seems wrong in
small transactions, trivial matters and pinch-penny business, seem right in the high paths
of commerce."

The general was too deeply interested in reading what purported to be his son's testimony before
Commissioner Smith, to break into the discussion at this point, so Dolan answered, "From which
I take it that you think that Johnnie down at the mill keeps a private God in his private car."

The colonel was silent for a time; he read a few lines and looked into space a moment, and
then replied in a gentle husky voice: "Jake, what do we know about it? The more I think how
every man differs from his neighbour, and all our sins are the result of individual weakness
at the end of lonely struggles with lonely temptations--the more I think maybe there is something
in what you say, and that not only John but each of us--each of us under this shining sun,
sir--keeps his private God."

"You'll have to break that news gently to the Pope," returned Dolan. "I'll not try it. Right's
right, Mart Culpepper, and wrong's wrong for me and for Johnnie Barclay, white, black, brown,
or yellow--'tis the same."

"There's nothing in your theory, Mart," cut in the general, folding his paper across his knee;
"not a thing in the world. We're all parts of a whole, and the only way this is an individual
problem at all--this working out of the race's destiny--is that the whole can't improve so
long as the parts don't grow. So long as we all are like John Barclay save in John's courage
to do wrong, laws won't help us much, and putting John in jail won't do so very much--though
it may scare the cowards until John's kind of crime grows unpopular. But what we must have
is individual--"

Tinkle goes the bell over Watts McHurdie's head--the bell tied to a cord that connects with
the front door. Down jumps Watts, and note the play of the lights from the flies, observe that
spot light moving toward R. U. E., there by the door of the shop. Yes, all ready; enter John
Barclay. See that iron smile on his face; he has not surrendered. He has been clean-shaven,
and entering that door, he is as spick and span as though he were on a wedding journey. Give
him a hand or a hiss as you will, ladies and gentlemen, John Barclay has entered at the Right
Upper Entrance, and the play may proceed.

"Well," he grinned, "I suppose you are talking it over. Colonel, has the jury come to a verdict
yet?"

What a suave John Barclay it was; how admirably he held his nerve; not a quiver in the face,
not a ruffle of the voice. The general looked at him over his spectacles, and could not keep
the kindness out of his eyes. "What a brick you are!" he said to himself, and Jake Dolan, conquered
by the simplicity of it, surrendered.

"Oh, well, John, I suppose we all have our little troubles," said Jake. Only that; the rack
of the inquisitor grew limp. And Colonel Culpepper rose and gave Barclay his hand and spoke
not a word. The silence was awkward, and at the end of a few moments the colonel found words.

"How," he asked in his thick asthmatic voice, mushy with emotion, "how in the world did this
happen, John? How did it happen?"

Barclay looked at the general; no, he did not glare, for John Barclay had grown tame during
the night, almost docile, one would say. But he did not answer at first, and Watts McHurdie,
bending over his work, chuckled out: "Ten miles from Springfield, madam--ten miles from Springfield."
And then John sloughed off thirty years and laughed. And the general laughed, and the colonel
smiled, and Jake Dolan took John Barclay's hand from the colonel, and said:--

"The court adjudges that the prisoner at the bar pay the assembled company four of those cigars
in his inside pocket, and stand committed until the same is paid."

And then there was a scratching of matches, and a puffing, and Barclay spoke: "I knew there
was one place on earth where I was welcome. The mill is swarming with reporters, and I thought
I'd slip away. They'll not find me here." The parliament smoked in silence, and again Barclay
said, "Well, gentlemen, it's pretty tough--pretty tough to work all your life to build up an
industry and in the end--get this."

"Well, John," said the general, as he rolled up his newspaper and put it away, "I'm sorry--just
as sorry as Mart is; not so much for the indictment, that is all part of the inevitable consequence
of your creed; if it hadn't been the indictment, it would have been something else, equally
sad--don't you see, John?"

"Oh, I know what you think, General," retorted Barclay, bitterly. "I know your idea; you think
it's retribution."

"Not exactly that either, John--just the other side of the equation. You have reaped what you
sowed, and I am sorry for what you sowed. God gave you ten talents, John Barclay--ten fine
talents, my boy, and you wrapped them in a napkin and buried them in the ground, buried them
in greed and cunning and love of power, and you are reaping envy and malice and cruelty. You
were efficient, John; oh, if I had been as efficient as you, how much I could have done for
this world--how much--how much!" he mused wistfully.

Barclay did not reply, but his face was hard, and his neck was stiff, and he was not moved.
He was still the implacable Mr. Barclay, the rich Mr. Barclay, and he would have no patronage
from old Phil Ward--Phil Ward the crank, who was a nation's joke. Ting-a-ling went the bell
over Watts McHurdie's head, and the little man climbed down from his bench and hurried into
the shop. But instead of a customer, Mr. J. K. Mercheson, J. K. Mercheson representing Barber,
Hancock, and Kohn,--yes, the whip trust; that's what they call it, but it is really an industrial
organization of the trade,--Mr. J. K. Mercheson of New York came in. No, McHurdie did not need
anything at present, and he backed into the shop. He had all of the goods in that line that
he could carry just now; and he sidled toward his seat. The members of the parliament effaced
themselves, as loafers do in every busy place when business comes up; the colonel got behind
his paper, Barclay hid back of the stove, Dolan examined a bit of harness, and the general
busied himself picking up the litter on the floor, and folding the papers with the pictures
of Barclay inside so that he would not be annoyed by them. But Mr. Mercheson knew how to get
orders; he knew that the thing to do is to stay with the trade.

So he leaned against the work bench and began:--

"This is a great town, Mr. McHurdie; we're always hearing from Sycamore Ridge. When I'm in
the East they say, 'What kind of a town is that Sycamore Ridge where Watts McHurdie and your
noted reformer, Robert Hendricks, who was offered a place in the cabinet, and this man John
Barclay live?'"

Mr. Mercheson paused for effect. Mr. McHurdie smiled and went on with his work.

"Say," said Mr. Mercheson, "your man Barclay is in all the papers this morning. I was in the
smoker of the sleeper last evening coming out of Chicago, and we got to talking about him--and
Lord, how the fellows did roast him."

"They did?" asked Barclay, from his chair behind the stove.

"Sure," replied Mr. Mercheson; "roasted him good and brown. There wasn't a man in the smoker
but me to stand up for him."

"So you stood up for the old scoundrel, did you?" asked Barclay.

"Sure," answered the travelling man. "Anything to get up an argument, you know," he went on,
beginning to see which way sentiment lay in the shop. "I've been around town this morning,
and I find the people here don't approve of him for a minute, any more than they did on the train."

"What do they say?" asked Barclay, braiding a four-strand whip, and finding that his cunning
of nearly fifty years had not left his fingers.

"Oh, it isn't so much what they say--but you can tell, don't you know; it's what they don't
say; they don't defend him. I guess they like him personally, but they know he's a thief; that's
the idea--they simply can't defend him and they don't try. The government has got him dead
to rights. Say," he went on, "just to be arguing, you know last evening I took a poll of the
train--the limited--the Golden State Limited--swell train, swell crowd--all rich old roosters;
and honest, do you know that out of one hundred and twenty-three votes polled only four were
for him, and three of those were girls who said they knew his daughter at the state university,
and had visited at his house. Wasn't that funny?"

Barclay laughed grimly, and answered, "Well, it was pretty funny considering that I'm John
Barclay."

The suspense of the group in the shop was broken, and they laughed, too.

"Oh, hell," said Mr. Mercheson, "come off!" Then he turned to McHurdie and tried to talk trade
to him. But Watts was obdurate, and the man soon left the shop, eying Barclay closely. He stood
in the door and said, as he went out of the store, "Well, you do look some like his pictures,
Mister."

There was a silence when the stranger went, and Barclay, whose face had grown red, cried, "Damn
'em--damn 'em all--kick a man when he is down!"

Again the bell tinkled, and McHurdie went into the shop. Evidently a customer was looking at
a horse collar, for through the glass door they could see Watts' hook go up to the ceiling
and bring one down.

"John," said the colonel, when Barclay had spoken, "John, don't mind it. Look at me, John--look
at me! They had to put me in jail, you know; but every one seems to have forgotten it but me--and
I am a dog that I don't."

John Barclay looked at the old, broken man, discarded from the playing-cards of life, with
the hurt, surprised look always in his eyes, and it was with an effort that the suave Mr. Barclay
kept the choke in his throat out of his voice as he replied:--

"Yes, Colonel, yes, I know I have no right to kick against the pricks."

Watts was saying: "Yes, he's in there now--with the boys; you better go in and cheer him up."

And then at the upper right-hand entrance entered Gabriel Carnine, president of the State Bank,
unctuous as a bishop. He ignored the others, and walking to Barclay, put out his hand. "Well,
well, John, glad to see you; just came up from the mill--I was looking for you. Couldn't find
Neal, either. Where is he?"

The general answered curtly, "Neal is in Chicago, working on the Record-Herald."

"Oh," returned Carnine, and did not pursue the subject further. "Well, gentlemen," he said,
"fine winter weather we're having."

"Is that so?" chipped in Dolan. "Mr. Barclay was finding it a little mite warm."

Carnine ignored Dolan, and Barclay grinned. "Well, John," Carnine hesitated, "I was just down
to see you--on a little matter of business."

"Delighted, sir, delighted," exclaimed Dolan, as he rose to go; "we were going, anyway--weren't
we, General?" The veterans rose, and Colonel Culpepper said as he went, "I told Molly to call
for me here about noon with the buggy--if she comes, tell her to wait."

All of life may not be put on the stage, and this scene has to be cut; for it was at the end
of half an hour's aimless, footless, foolish talk that Gabriel Carnine came to the business
in hand. Round and round the bush he beat the devil, before he hit him a whack. Then he said,
as if it had just occurred to him, "We were wondering--some of the directors--this morning,
if under the circumstances--oh, say just for the coming six months or such a matter--it might
not be wise to reorganize our board; freshen it up, don't you know; kind of get some new names
on it, and drop the old ones--not permanently, but just to give the other stockholders a show
on the board."

"So you want me to get off, do you?" blurted Barclay. "You're afraid of my name--now?"

The screams of Mr. Carnine, the protesting screams of that oleaginous gentleman, if they could
have been vocalized in keeping with their muffled, low-voiced, whispering earnestness, would
have been loud enough to be heard a mile away, but Barclay talked out:--

"All right, take my name off; and out comes my account. I don't care."

And thereupon the agony of Mr. Carnine was unutterable. If he had been a natural man, he would
have howled in pain; as it was, he merely purred. But Barclay's skin was thin that day, sensitive
to every touch, and he felt the rough hand of Carnine and winced. He let the old man whine
and pur and stroke his beard awhile, and then Barclay said wearily, "All right, just as you
please, Gabe--I'll not move my account. It's nothing to me."

In another minute the feline foot of Mr. Carnine was pattering gently toward the front door.
Barclay sat looking at the stove, and Watts went on working. Barclay sighed deeply once or
twice, but McHurdie paid no heed to him. Finally Barclay rose and went over to the bench.

"Watts," cried Barclay, "what do you think about it--you, your own self, what do you think
way down in your heart?"

Watts sewed a stitch or two without speaking, and then put down his thread and put up his glasses
and said, "That's fairly spoken, John Barclay, and will have a fair answer."

The old man paused; Barclay cried impatiently, "Oh, well, Watts, don't be afraid--nothing can
hurt me much now!"

"I was just a-thinking, lad," said Watts, gently, "just a-thinking."

"What?" cried Barclay.

"Just a-thinking," returned the old man, as he put his hand on the younger man's shoulder,
"what a fine poet you spoiled in your life, just to get the chance to go to jail. But the Lord
knows His business, I suppose!" he added with a twinkle in his eye, "and if He thinks a poet
more or less in jail would help more than one out--it is all for the best, John, all for the
best. But, my boy," he cried earnestly, "if you'll be going to jail, don't whine, lad. Go to
jail like a gentleman, John Barclay, go to jail like a gentleman, and serve your Lord there
like a man."

"Damn cheerful you are, Watts," returned Barclay. "What a lot of Job's comforters you fellows
have been this morning." He went on half bitterly and half jokingly: "Beginning with the general,
continuing with your travelling salesman friend, and following up with Gabe, who wants me to
get off the board of directors of his bank for the moral effect of it, and coming on down to
you who bid me Godspeed to jail--I have had a--a--a rather gorgeous morning."

The door-bell tinkled, and a woman's voice called, "Father, father!"

"Yes, Molly," the harness maker answered; "he'll be here pretty soon. He said for you to wait."

"Come in, for heaven's sake, Molly," cried Barclay, "come back here and cheer me up."

"Oh, all right--it's you, John? What are you doing back here? I'm so glad to find you. I've
just got the dearest letter from Jane. We won't talk business or anything--you know how I feel,
and how sorry I am--so just let's read Jane's letter; it has something in it to cheer you.
She said she was going to write it to you the next day--but I'll read it to you." And so Mrs.
Brownwell took from her pocketbook the crumpled letter and unfolded it. "It's so like Jane--just
good hard sense clear through." She turned the pages hastily, and finally the fluttering of
the sheets stopped. "Oh, yes," she said, "here's the place--the rest she's told you. Let me
see--Oh: 'And, Molly, what do you think?--there's a duke after Jeanette--a miserable, little,
dried-up, burned-out, poverty-stricken Italian duke. And oh, how much good it did us both to
cut him, and let him know how ill-bred we considered him, how altogether beneath any wholesome
honest girl we thought such a fellow.' And now, John, isn't this like Jane?" interposed Mrs.
Brownwell. "Listen; she says, 'Molly, do you know, I am so happy about Jeanette and Neal. We
run such an awful risk with this money--such a horrible risk of unhappiness and misery for
the poor child--heaven knows she would be so much happier without it. And to think, dear, that
she has found the one in the world for her, in the sweet simple way that a girl should always
find him, and that the money--the menacing thing that hangs like a shadow over her--cannot
by any possibility spoil her life! It makes me happy all the day, and I go singing through
life with joy at the thought that the money won't hurt Jennie--that it can't take from her
the joy that comes from living with her lover all her life, as I have lived.' Isn't that fine,
John?" asked Mrs. Brownwell, and looking up, she saw John Barclay, white-faced, with trembling
jaw, staring in pain at the stove. Watts had gone into the store to wait on a customer, and
the woman, seeing the man's anguish, came to him and said: "Why, John, what is it? How have
I hurt you?--I thought this would cheer you so."

The man rose heavily. His colour was coming back. "Oh, God--God," he cried, "I needed that
to-day--I needed that."

The woman looked at him, puzzled and nonplussed. "Why--why--why?" she stammered.

"Oh, nothing," he smiled back at her bitterly, "except--" and his jaw hardened as he snapped--"except
that Neal Ward is a damned informer--and I've sent him about his business, and Jeanette's got
to do the same."

Mollie Brownwell looked at him with hard eyes for a moment, and then asked, "What did Neal do?"

"Well," replied Barclay, "under cross-examination, I'll admit without incriminating myself
that he gave the testimony which indicted me."

"Was it that or lie, John?" He did not reply. A silence fell, and the woman broke it with a
cry: "Oh, John Barclay, John Barclay, must your traffic in souls reach your own flesh and blood?
Haven't you enough without selling her into Egypt, too? Haven't you enough money now?" And
without waiting for answer, Molly Brownwell turned and left him staring into nothing, with
his jaw agape.

It was noon and a band was playing up the street, and as he stood by the stove in McHurdie's
shop, he remembered vaguely that he had seen banners flying and some "Welcome" arches across
the street as he walked through the town that morning. He realized that some lodge or conclave
or assembly was gathering in the town, and that the band was a part of its merriment. It was
playing a gay tune and came nearer and nearer. But as he stood leaning upon his chair, with
his heart quivering and raw from its punishment, he did not notice that the band had stopped
in front of the harness shop. His mind went back wearily to the old days, fifty years before,
when as a toddling child in dresses he used to play on that very scrap-heap outside the back
door, picking up bits of leather, and in his boyhood days, playing pranks upon the little harness
maker, and braiding his whips for the town herd. Then he remembered the verses Watts had written
about Bob Hendricks and him in that very room, and the music he and Watts had played together
there. The old song Watts had made in his presence in the hospital at St. Louis came back to
his mind. Did it come because outside the band had halted and was playing that old song to
serenade Watts McHurdie? Or did it come because John Barclay was wondering if, had he made
a poet of himself, or a man of spiritual and not of material power, it would have been better
for him?

Heaven knows why the old tune came into his head. But when he recognized that they were serenading
the little harness maker, and that so far as they thought of John Barclay and his power and
his achievements, it was with scorn, he had a flash of insight into his relations with the
world that illumined his soul for a moment and then died away. The great Mr. Barclay, alone,
sitting in the dingy little harness shop, can hear the band strike up the old familiar tune
again, and hear the crowd cheer and roar its applause at the little harness maker, who stands
shamefaced and abashed, coatless and aproned, before the crowd. And he is only a poet--hardly
a poet, would be a better way to say it; an exceedingly bad poet who makes bad rhymes, and
thinks trite thoughts, and says silly and often rather stupid things, but who once had his
say, and for that one hour of glorious liberty of the soul has moved millions of hearts to
love him. John Barclay does not envy Watts McHurdie--not at all; for Barclay, with all his
faults, is not narrow-gauged; he does not wish they would call for him--not to-day--not at
all; he could not face them now, even if they cheered him. He says in his heart of pride, beneath
his stiff neck, that it is all right; that Watts,--poor little church-mouse of a Watts, whom
he could buy five times over with the money that has dropped into the Barclay till since he
entered the shop--that Watts should have his due; but only--only--only--that is it--only, but
only--!

CHAPTER XXVI

And now as we go out into the busy world, after this act in the dawning of John Barclay's life,
let the court convene, and the reporters gather, and the honourable special counsel for the
government rage, and the defendant sit nervous and fidgety as the honourable counsel reads
the indictment; let the counsel for the defendant swell and strut with indignation that such
indignities should be put upon honest men and useful citizens, and let the court frown, and
ponder and consider; for that is what courts are for, but what do we care for it all? We have
left it all behind, with the ragged programmes in the seats. So if the honourable court, in
the person of the more or less honourable Elijah Westlake Bemis, after the fashion of federal
judges desiring to do a questionable thing, calls in a judge from a neighbouring court--what
do we care? And if the judge of the neighbouring court, after much legal hemming and judicial
hawing, decides in his great wisdom--that the said defendant Barclay has been charged in the
indictment with no crime, and instructs the jury to find a verdict of not guilty for said defendant
John Barclay, upon the mere reading of the indictment,--what are the odds? What do we care
if the men in the packed courtroom hiss and the reporters put down the hisses in their note-books
and editors write the hisses in headlines, and presses print the hisses all over the world?
For the fidgety little man is free now--entirely free save for fifty-four years of selfish
life upon his shoulders.

In the trial of nearly every cause it becomes necessary at some point in the proceedings to
halt the narrative and introduce certain exhibits, records, and documents, upon which foregone
evidence has been based, and to which coming testimony may properly be attached. That point
has been reached in the case now before the reader. And as "Exhibit A" let us submit a letter
written by John Barclay, January seventh, nineteen hundred and four, to Jane, his wife, at Naples.

    "As I cabled you this afternoon, the case resulted exactly as I said
    it would the day after the indictment. I had not seen or talked with
    Lige since that day I talked with him over the telephone, before the
    indictment was made public, but I knew Lige well enough to know how
    he would act under fire. I had him out to dinner this evening, and
    we talked over old times, and he tells me he wants to retire from
    the bench. Jane, Lige has been my mainstay ever since this company
    was organized. Sometimes I feel that without his help in
    politics--looking to see that pernicious legislation was killed, and
    that the right men were elected to administrative offices, and
    appointed to certain judicial places--we never would have been able
    to get the company to its present high standing. I feel that he has
    been so valuable to us that we should settle a sum on him that will
    make him a rich man as men go in the Ridge. Heaven knows that is
    little enough, considering all that he has done. He may have his
    faults, Jane, but he has been loyal to me.

    "I hope, my dear, that Jeanette has ceased to worry about the other
    matter; he is not worth her tears. Don't come home for a month or
    two yet. The same conditions prevail that I spoke of in my first
    cable the day of the indictment. The press and the public are
    perfectly crazy. America is one great howling mob, and it would make
    you and Jennie unhappy. As for me, I don't mind it. You know me."

And that the reader may know how truthful John Barclay is, let us append herewith a letter
written by Mrs. Mary Barclay, of Sycamore Ridge, to her granddaughter at Naples, January 15,
1904. She writes among other things:--

    "Well, dear, it is a week now since your father's case was settled,
    and he was at home for the first time last night. I expected that
    his victory--such as it was--would cheer him up, but some way he
    seems worse in the dumps than he was before. He does not sleep well,
    and is getting too nervous for a man of his age. I have the
    impression that he is forever battling with something. Of course the
    public temper is bitter, dearie. You are a woman now, and should not
    be shielded and pampered with lies, so I am going to tell you the
    truth. The indignation of the people of this nation at your father,
    as he represents present business methods, is past belief. And
    frankly, dearie, I can't blame them. Your father and my son is a
    brave, sweet, loving man; none could be finer in this world, Jennie.
    But the head of the National Provisions Company is another person,
    dear; and of him I do not approve, as you know so well. I am sending
    you Neal Ward's statement which was published by the government the
    day after the case was dismissed. I have not sent it to you before,
    because I wanted to ask your father if it was true. Jennie, he
    admits that Neal told the truth, and nothing but the truth--and did
    not make it as bad as it was. You are entitled to the facts. You are
    a grown woman now, dear, and must make your own decisions. But oh,
    my dear little girl, I am heartsick to see your father breaking as
    he is. He seems to be fighting--fighting--fighting all the time;
    perhaps it is against the flames of public wrath, but some way I
    think he is fighting something inside himself--fighting it back;
    fighting it down--whatever it is."

Counsel also begs indulgence while he introduces and reads two clippings from the Sycamore
Ridge Daily Banner, of February 12, 1904. The first one reads:--

    "Judge Bemis Retires

    "Hon. E. W. Bemis has retired from the federal bench, and rumour has
    it that he is soon to return with his estimable wife to our midst.
    Our people will welcome the judge and Mrs. Bemis with open arms. He
    retires from an honourable career, to pass his declining years in
    the peace and quiet of the town in which he began his career over
    fifty years ago. For as every one knows, he came West as a boy, and
    before having been admitted to the bar dealt largely in horses and
    cattle. He has always been a good business man, having with his
    legal acumen the acquisitive faculty, and now he is looking for some
    place to invest a modest competence here in the Ridge, and rumour
    has it again that he is negotiating for the purchase of the Sycamore
    Ridge Waterworks bonds, which are now in litigation. If so, he will
    make an admirable head of that popular institution."

In this connection, and before introducing the other clipping from the Banner, it would be
entirely proper to introduce the manuscript for the above, in the typewriting of the stenographer
of Judge Bemis's court, and a check for fifty dollars payable to Adrian Brownwell, signed by
Judge Bemis aforesaid; but those documents would only clog the narrative and would not materially
strengthen the case, so they will be thrown out.

The second clipping, found in the personal column of the Banner of the date referred to, February
12, 1904, follows:--

    "Mrs. John Barclay and Miss Barclay are on the steamer Etruria
    which was sighted off Fire Island to-day. They will spend a few
    weeks in New York, and early in March Miss Barclay will enter the
    state university to do some post-graduate work in English, and Mrs.
    Barclay will return to Sycamore Ridge. Mr. Barclay will meet them at
    the pier, and they expect to spend the coming two weeks attending
    German opera. Mrs. Mary Barclay left to-day for the East to join
    them. She will remain a month visiting relatives near Haverhill,
    Mass."

It becomes necessary to append some letters of Miss Jeanette Barclay's, and they are set down
here in the order in which they were written, though the first one takes the reader back a
few weeks to December 5, 1903. It was posted at Rome, and in the body of it are found these
words:--

    "My dear, I know you will smile when you hear I have been reading
    all the Italian scientific books I can find, dealing with the human
    brain--partly to help my Italian, but chiefly, I think, to see if I
    can find and formulate some sort of a definition for love. It is so
    much a part of my soul, dear heart, that I would like to know more
    about it. And I am going to write down for you what I think it is as
    we know it. I have been wearing your ring nearly three years, Neal,
    and if you had only known it, I would have been happy to have taken
    it a year sooner. In those four years I have grown from a girl to a
    woman, and you have become a man full grown. In that time all my
    thoughts have centred on you. In all my schoolbooks your face comes
    back to me as I open them in fancy. As I think of the old room at
    school, of my walk up the hill, as I think of home and my room
    there, some thought of you is always between me and the picture. All
    through my physical brain are little fibres running to every centre
    that bring up images of you. You are woven into my life, and I know
    in my heart that I am woven into your life. The thing is done; it is
    as much apart of my being as my blood--those million fibres of my
    brain that from every part of my consciousness bring thoughts of
    you. We cannot be separated now, darling--we are united for life,
    whether we unite in life or not. I am yours and you are mine. It is
    now as inexorable as anything we call material. More than that--you
    have made my soul. All the aspirations of my spiritual life go to
    you for beginning and for being as truly as the fibres of my brain
    thrill to the sound of your name or the mental image of your face.
    My soul is your soul, because in the making the thought of you was
    uppermost. I know that my love for you is immortal, ineffaceable,
    and though I should live a hundred years, that love would still be
    as much a part of my life as my hands or my eyes or my body. And the
    best of it all is that I am so glad it is so. Divorce is as
    impossible with a love like that as amputation of the brain. It is
    big and vital in me, real and certain, and so long as I live on
    earth, or dwell in eternity, my soul and your soul are knit
    together."

Three weeks later, on December 28, 1903, Miss Barclay wrote to Mr. Ward as follows:--

    "Your letter and father's letter were on my desk when we returned
    from our cruise. I have just finished writing to him, and I herewith
    return your ring and your pin."

There was neither signature nor superscription--just those words. And a month later, Miss Barclay
wrote this letter to her Grandmother Barclay in Sycamore Ridge:--

    "MY DEAR, DEAR GRANNY: I have told mother what you wrote of father,
    and we are coming home just as soon as we can get a steamer. We are
    cabling him to-day, and hope to sail within a week or ten days at
    the very farthest. But I cannot wait until I see you, dear, to come
    close into your heart. And first of all I want you to know that I
    share your views about the heart-break of all this money and the
    miserable man-killing way it is being piled up. I know the two men
    you speak of--father and the president of the N.P.C. But he is my
    father, and I must stand by him, and brace him if I can. But, oh,
    Granny, I don't want the old money! It has never made me
    happy--never for one minute. The only happiness I have ever had was
    when he was at home with us all, away from business--and--but you
    know about that other happiness, and it hurts to speak of it now. I
    have not read what you sent me. I can't. But I will keep it. That it
    is true doesn't help me any. Nothing can help me. It is just one of
    those awful things that I have read of coming to people, but which I
    thought never could possibly come to me. Oh, Granny, Granny, you who
    pray so much for others, now pray for me. Granny, you can't cut
    something out of you--right out of the heart of you, by merely
    saying so; it keeps growing back; it hurts, and hurts, and keeps
    hurting; even if you know it is cut out and thrown away. They say
    that men who have had legs cut off can feel them for months and even
    years if they are cramped when they are buried. The nerves of the
    old dead body reach through space and hurt. It is that way with me.
    The old dead thing in my heart that is buried and gone keeps
    cramping and hurting. You are the only one I can come to, Granny. It
    hurts mother too much, and she is not strong this winter. I think it
    is worry. She is growing thin, and her heart doesn't act right. I am
    terribly worried about her; but she made me promise to say nothing
    to father, and you must not, either; for he will see for himself
    soon."

A few letters from Neal Ward to Jeanette Barclay, and a document some twenty years old, which
the reader may have forgotten, but which one person connected with this narrative has feared
would come to light every day in that time--and then this tedious business of introducing documentary
evidence will be over. The letter from Neal Ward to Jeanette Barclay is one of hundreds that
he wrote and never mailed. They were dated, sealed, addressed, and put away. This one was written
at midnight as the bells and whistles and pistols and fireworks were welcoming the year 1904.
It begins:--

    "MY VERY DEAREST: Here I am sitting at the old desk again, in the
    old office of the Banner. I could only scribble you a little note
    on the train last night to tell you that my heart still was with
    you, and I did not have the time to explain why I was coming. It is
    a dead secret, little woman, and perhaps I shouldn't tell even you,
    but I feel that I must bring everything to you. Bob Hendricks wired
    me to come down. He has a mortgage on the Banner, and he feels
    that things are not being properly managed, so he persuaded Mr.
    Brownwell to give me a place as sort of manager of the paper at
    twenty dollars a week--a sum that seems princely considering that I
    was making only eighteen dollars in Chicago, and that it costs so
    much less to live here. Hendricks guarantees my wages, so that
    Adrian cannot stand me off. Hendricks has another motive for wanting
    me to come here. The waterworks franchise will come up for renewal
    June first of this year, and Mr. Hendricks is for municipal
    ownership. Carnine and the State Bank are against municipal
    ownership, because the water company does business with them, and as
    they control the Index, they are preparing to make a warm fight
    for the renewal of the old franchise. So there will be a hot time in
    the old town this spring. But the miserable part of it is this. The
    growth of the town has made it dangerous to use the present supply
    station. The water must not come out of the mill-pond any longer, as
    the town is tilted so that all the surface drainage goes into it,
    and the sewers that drain into it, while they drain a few hundred
    yards below the intake of the waterworks, cannot help tainting the
    whole pond. Mr. Hendricks has had an expert here who declared that
    both the typhoid and diphtheria epidemics here last fall were due
    directly to the water supply, and Mr. Hendricks is going to make the
    fight of his life to have the city buy the waterworks plant, and
    move the intake six miles above town, where there is plenty of clean
    water. Of course it will mean first a city election to get decent
    councilmen, and then a bond election to vote money to buy the old
    plant; the waterworks company are going to move heaven and earth to
    get an anti-Hendricks council elected and to renew the franchise and
    let things go as they are. So that is why I am here, dear heart, and
    oh, my darling, you do not know how painful it all seems to be here
    and not have you--I mean--you know what I mean. All my associations
    with the work here in the office and on the street are with my heart
    close to yours. Everything in the old town tells me of you. 'Saint
    Andrews by the Northern sea, a haunted city is to me.' To-night I
    hear the music of the New Year's dance, and I can shut my eyes and
    feel you with me there. Oh, sweetheart, I have kept you so close, by
    writing to you every night. I come and lay my heart and all its
    thoughts at your shrine, and put all my day's work before you for
    your approval, just as I used to do. It is so sweet a privilege.

    "Last night I dreamed about you. It was so real and your voice
    sounded so clearly, crying to me, that you have been with me all
    day. I wonder if while we sleep, we whose souls would struggle to
    meet through eternity, if through the walls of space they may not
    find each other, and speak to each other through our dreams. It is
    midnight here now, and you are just waking, perhaps, or just
    sleeping that sleep of early morning wherein the soul sinks to
    unknown depths. Oh--oh--oh, if I could but speak to you there, my
    dear! I am going to sit here and close my eyes and try."

The next letter in the exhibit was written six weeks later and is dated February 12, 1904.
It says in part:--

    "I must tell you what a bully fellow Bob Hendricks is. Judge Bemis
    sent a highly laudatory article about himself to the office to-day
    with a check for fifty dollars. In the article it develops that he
    is going to retire from the federal bench and come down here and buy
    the waterworks plant--on the theory that he will get a bargain
    because of the expiring franchise and the prospective fight. That
    fifty dollars looked as big as a barn to poor Adrian, so he trotted
    off with the letter and the check to Hendricks. Of course, the
    letter and the check together, just framed and put in the bank
    window, would make great sport of the judge; but Bob is a
    thoroughbred, and probably Bemis knows it, and figures on that in
    his dealings with him. I was in the bank when Adrian came in with
    the letter. He showed the check and the article to Hendricks, and
    you could almost see Adrian wag his tail and hear him whine to keep
    the check; Bob looked at the poor fellow's wistful eyes and handed
    it back with a quizzical little smile and said, 'Oh, I guess I'd run
    it; it can't hurt anything.' The light that came into Adrian's eyes
    was positively beatific, and he shook Bob by the hand, and twirled
    his cane, and waved his gloves in a sort of canine ecstasy, and
    trotted to the cashier's window with the check like a dog with a
    bone. It is the largest piece of real money he has had in six
    months, the boys say, and he has spent it for clothes. To-morrow he
    will hurry off to the first convention in the city like a comet two
    centuries behind time. But that is beside the point; the thing I
    don't like is the coming of Bemis. I know him; the things I have
    seen him do in your father's business and when he was on the bench,
    make me shudder for decent politics in this town. He is shrewd,
    unscrupulous, and without any restraint on earth.

    "I feel closer to you than I have felt since I put the barrier
    between us. For you are in this country to-night--I could go to the
    telephone there five feet away and reach you if I would. I looked
    to-day in the papers and saw that they would be giving Lohengrin at
    the Metropolitan Opera House, and knowing your father as I do, I
    think he will take you there. I can hear the music rising and see
    you drinking in the harmony, and as it swells into exquisite pain,
    and thrills through the holy places of your soul where are old
    memories of our love, sweetheart, maybe your spirit will go forth in
    God's strange universe where we all dwell neighbours, loosed from
    those material chains that bind our bodies, and will seek the heart
    that is searching for you out there in the highway of heaven. I seem
    to feel you now, dear soul--did the music fling your spirit free for
    a second till it touched my own? I am so happy, Jeanette--even to
    love you and to know that you have loved me, and must always love me
    while you are you and I am I."

And now let us consider the final exhibit. It will be necessary to turn back the action of
this story a month and a half and sit with John Barclay and his friend, former federal judge
Elijah Westlake Bemis, before the fire in the wide fireplace in the Barclay home, one cold
January night, a week after Barclay had gone free from the court and the world had hissed him.
They were talking of the judge's business future, and the judge was saying:--

"John, how did Bob Hendricks ever straighten out that affair in the treasurer's office in connection
with the first year's taxes of the old Wheat Company? What did he do with it finally?"

Barclay looked at the fire and then turned his searchlight eyes into Bemis's. There was not
a quiver. The man sat there without a muscle of his parchment face moving. His eyes were squinted
up, looking at the tip of his long cigar.

"Why?" asked Barclay.

"Well," responded Bemis, impassive as an ox, "it would help me in my business to know. Tell me."

He spoke the last two words as one in authority.

"Well," answered Barclay, "one day back in the seventies, I was appointed to check up the treasurer's
book, and I found where he had fixed it on the county books--apparently between two administrations.
I recognized his hand; and it made the balance for the first time."

Bemis smoked awhile. "What time in the seventies?" he asked.

There was a pause. "In January, 1879."

Bemis grinned a wicked, mean little grin and said: "That settles it. I believe I am safe in
buying the waterworks."

"What are you going to do to Bob?" Barclay asked.

"Nothing, nothing--absolutely nothing, if he has any sense and drops this municipal ownership
tommyrot. Absolutely nothing."

Again the grin came over his face, and at the end of a pause Barclay said:--

"Well, if not, what then?"

Bemis shut his eyes and crossed his gaunt legs, and began: "Think back twenty years ago--more
or less. Do you remember when I brought your car down here for Watts McHurdie and his crowd
to go to Washington in, to the G.A.R. celebration? All right; do you remember that I came to
the office and told you I saw Bob Hendricks waiting for some one at the Union Station, when
the train got into the city that morning?"

"Yes," said Barclay, "you were so mysterious and funny about it, I remember."

"Well," said Bemis, as he got up and poked a log that was annoying him in the fireplace, "well,
I have a little document in my desk at home, that I got the night before in the Ridge, which
will convince Bobbie, if he has any sense, that this municipal ownership business isn't all
it's cracked up to be."

Barclay, who knew from Jane something of the truth, guessed the rest, but he did not question
Bemis further. "Oh, I don't know, Lige," he began; "it seems to me I wouldn't drag that into it."

Bemis turned his old face, full of malicious passion, toward Barclay and cried, "Maybe you
wouldn't, John Barclay--you forget things; but I never do; and you're a coward sometimes, and
I am not."

The blaze of his wrath went out in a moment, and Barclay's mind went back to that afternoon
in the seventies when Hendricks picked Bemis up and threw him bodily from the county convention
and branded him as a boodler. Barclay knew argument was useless. So he said nothing.

"He has the county officers--every man-jack of them from the treasurer to Jake Dolan, the janitor--and
I couldn't get hold of that book by fair means without his knowing it. But I am going to have
that book, John--I'm going to have that book."

Barclay followed Bemis's mental processes, as if they were his own. "Well--what if he does
know it?" asked Barclay.

"Oh, if he knew I was after the book, he'd fix me,--have it destroyed or something; he could
do lots of things or beat me some way. I've got to get that book--get it out of the court-house--and
there's just one way to get into the court-house, without using the doors and the windows."
When Bemis had finished speaking, he gazed steadily into Barclay's eyes. And Bemis saw the
fear that was in Barclay's face. "Yes, I know a way into the court-house, John--it's mine by
fifty years' right of discovery. I'm going to have that book, and get an expert opinion as
to the similarity of the handwriting in the book and the handwriting of my own little document.
My own little document," he mused, licking his chops like a hound at the prospect.

Now we will call that little document "Exhibit I" in the case of the Larger Good vs. The People,
and close thereby a long and tedious chapter. But we will begin another chapter in which the
wheels of events spin rapidly in their courses toward that moral equilibrium that deeds must
find before they stop when they are started for the Larger Good.

CHAPTER XXVII

The spring of 1904 in Sycamore Ridge opened in turmoil. The turmoil came from the contest over
the purchase of the town's water system. Robert Hendricks as president of the Citizens' League
was leading the forces that advocated the purchase of the system by the town, as being the
only sure way to change the water supply from the polluted mill-pond to a clean source. Six
months before he had leased every bill-board in town, and for the two months preceding the
city election that was to decide the question of municipal purchase he had hired every available
hall in town, for every vacant night during those months, and had bought half of the first
page of both the Banner and the Index for those months--and all of this long before the town
knew the fight was coming. He covered the bill-boards and the first pages of the newspapers
with analyses of the water in the mill-pond--badly infected from the outlet of the town sewers
and its surface drainage. The Citizens' League filled the halls with speakers demanding the
purchase of the plant and the removal of the pumping station to a place several miles above
the town, and four beyond the mill-pond. Judge Bemis, with the aid and abetment of John Barclay,
who was in the game to help his old friend, put up banners denouncing Hendricks as a socialist,
accusing him of being the town boss, and charged through the columns of the Index that Hendricks'
real motive in desiring to have the city take over the waterworks system was to make money
on the sale of the city's bonds. So Hendricks was the centre of the fight.

In the first engagement, a malicious contest, Hendricks lost. The town refused to vote the
bonds to buy the plant. But at the same election the same people elected a city council overwhelmingly
in favour of municipal ownership and in favour of compelling the operating company to move
its plant from the mill-pond. The morning after the election Hendricks began a lawsuit as a
taxpayer and citizen to make the waterworks company move its plant. The town could understand
that issue, and sentiment rallied to Hendricks again. Judge Bemis, at the head of the company,
although irritated, was not alarmed. For in the courts he could promote delays, plead technicalities,
and wear out his adversary. It was an old game with him. Still, the suit disturbed the value
of his bonds, and having other resources, he gleefully decided to use them.

And thus it fell out that one fine day in April, Trixie Lee, from the bedraggled outer hem
of the social garment down by the banks of the Sycamore, called to the telephone Robert Hendricks
of the town's purple and fine linen, who dwelt on the hill. He did not recognize her voice,
the first time she called. But shrewd as Judge Bemis was, and bad as he was, he did not know
it all. He did not know that when Hendricks had received the first anonymous letter three days
before, he had instructed the girls in the telephone office, which he controlled, to make a
record of every telephone call for his office or his house, and when the woman's voice on the
telephone that day delivered Judge Bemis's message, the moment after she quit talking he knew
with whom he had been talking.

"Is this Mr. Hendricks?" the voice had begun, rather pleasantly. Yes, it was Mr. Hendricks.
"Well, I am your friend, but I don't dare to let you know my name now; it would be all my life
is worth." And Robert Hendricks grinned pleasantly into the rubber transmitter as he realized
that his trap would work. "Yes, Mr. Hendricks, I am your friend, and you have a powerful enemy."
What with the insinuations in the Index and the venom that Lige Bemis had been putting into
anonymous circulars during the preliminary waterworks campaign, this was no news to Mr. Hendricks;
so he let the voice go on, "They want you to dismiss that suit against the waterworks company
that you brought last week." There was a pause for a reply; but none came; then the voice said,
"Are you there, Mr. Hendricks--do you hear me?" And Mr. Hendricks said that he heard perfectly.
"And," went on the voice, "as your friend I wish you would, too. Do you remember a letter you
once wrote to a woman, asking her to elope with you--a married woman, Mr. Hendricks?" There
was a pause for a reply, and again the voice asked, "Do you hear, Mr. Hendricks?" and Mr. Hendricks
heard; heard in his soul and was afraid, but his voice did not quaver as he replied, "Yes,
I hear perfectly." Then the voice went on, "Well, they have that letter--a little note--not
over one hundred words, and with no date on it, and the man who has it also has a photograph
of page 234 of a certain ledger in the county treasurer's office for 1879, and there is an
entry there in your handwriting, Mr. Hendricks; and he has had them both enlarged to show that
the handwriting of the note and of the county book are the same; isn't that mean, Mr. Hendricks?"
Hendricks coughed into the transmitter, and she knew that he was there, so she continued: "As
your friend in this matter, I have got them to promise that if you will come to the Citizens'
League meeting that you have called for to-morrow night at Barclay Hall and tell the people
that you think we need harmony in the Ridge worse than we need this everlasting row, if you
will merely say to Mr. Barclay as you pass into the meeting, 'Well, John, I believe I'll dismiss
that suit,' you can have your letter back. He hasn't got the letter, but he will be sure to
tell the news to a friend who has." Here the voice faltered, and said unconsciously, "Wait
a minute, I've lost my place; oh, here it is; all right. And if you don't come to the meeting
and say that, I believe they are going to spring those documents on the meeting to put you
in bad odour."

"Is that all?" asked Hendricks.

"Well--" a pause and then finally--"yes," came the voice.

"Well, my answer is no," said Hendricks, and while he was trying to get central the voice called
again and said:--

"Just one word more: if you still maintain your present decision, a copy of that letter you
wrote will be put into the hands of Mr. Brownwell of the Banner before the meeting; I tell
you this to protect you. He and Mrs. Brownwell and Mrs. Barclay will be in town to-morrow evening
on the Barclay car from the West on No. 6; you will have until then to reconsider your decision;
after that you act at your own risk."

Again the voice ceased, and Hendricks learned from central who had been talking with him. It
was after banking hours, and he sat for a time looking the situation squarely in the face.
The reckoning had come. He had answered "no" with much bravery over the telephone--but in his
heart a question began to rise, and his decision was clouded.

Hendricks walked alone under the stars that night, and as he walked he turned the situation
over and over as one who examines a strange puzzle. He saw that his "no" could not be his own
"no." Molly must be partner in it. For to continue his fight for clean water he must risk her
good name. He measured Bemis, and remembered the old quarrel. The hate in the face of the bribe-giver,
thrown out of the county convention a quarter of a century before, came to Hendricks, and he
knew that it was no vain threat he was facing. So he turned up the other facet of the puzzle.
There was Adrian. For an hour he considered Adrian Brownwell, a vain jealous old man with the
temper of a beast. To see Molly, tell her of their common peril, get her decision, and be with
it at the meeting before Adrian saw the note, all in the two hours between the arrival of the
train bearing the Brownwells and Mrs. Barclay, and the time of the meeting in Barclay Hall,
was part of Hendricks' puzzle. He believed that by using the telephone to make an appointment
he could manage it. Then he turned the puzzle over and saw that to save Molly Brownwell's good
name and his father's, human lives must be sacrificed by permitting the use of foul water in
the town. And in the end his mind set. He knew that unless she forbade it, the contest must
go on to a righteous finish, through whatever perils, over any obstacles. Yet as he walked
back to the bank, determined not to take his hand from the plough, he saw that he must prepare
to go into the next day as though it were his last. For in his consciousness on the other side
of the puzzle--always there was the foolish Adrian, impetuous at best, but stark mad in his
jealousy and wrath.

And Elijah Westlake Bemis, keeping account of the man's movements, chuckled as he felt the
struggle in the man's breast. For he was a wise old snake, that Lige Bemis, and he had seduced
many another man after the brave impulsive "no" had roared in his face. Just before midnight
when he saw the electric light flash on in the private office of the president of the Exchange
National Bank, Lige Bemis, libertine with men, strolled home and counted the battle won. "He's
writing his speech," he said to Barclay over the telephone at midnight. And John Barclay, who
had fought the local contest in the election with Bemis to be loyal to a friend, and to help
one who was in danger of losing the profit on half a million dollars' investment in the Sycamore
Ridge waterworks, laughed as he walked upstairs in his pajamas, and said to himself, "Old Lige
is a great one--there is a lot of fight in the old viper yet." It was nothing to Barclay that
the town got its water from a polluted pond. That phase of the case did not enter his consciousness,
though it was placarded on the bill-boards and had been printed in the Banner a thousand times
during the campaign. To him it was a fight by the demagogues against property interests, and
he was with property, even a little property--even a miserable little dribble of property like
half a million dollars' worth of waterworks bonds.

And Robert Hendricks--playfellow of John Barclay's boyhood, partner of his youth--sat working
throughout the night, a brave man, going into battle without a tremor. He went through his
books, made out statements of his business relations, prepared directions for the heads of
his different concerns, as a man would do who might be going on a long journey. For above everything,
Robert Hendricks was foresighted. He prepared for emergencies first, and tried to avoid them
afterwards. And with the thought of the smallness of this life in his soul, he looked up from
his work to see the hard gray lines of the dawn in the street outside of his office, bringing
the ugly details from the shadows that hid them during the day, and he sighed as he wondered
in what bourne he should see the next dawn break.

It was a busy day for Robert Hendricks, that next day, and through it all his mind was planning
every moment of the time how he could protect Molly Brownwell. Did he work in the bank, behind
his work his mind was seeking some outlet from his prison. If he went over the power-house
at the electric plant, always he was looking among the wheels for some way of refuge for Molly.
When he spent an hour in the office of the wholesale grocery house, he despatched a day's work,
but never for a second was his problem out of his head. He spent two hours with his lawyers
planning the suit against the water company, pointing out new sources of evidence, and incidentally
leaving a large check to pay for the work. But through it all Molly Brownwell's good name was
ever before him, and when he thought how twenty years before he had walked through another
day planning, scheming, and contriving, all to produce the climax of calamity that was hovering
over her to-day, he was sick and faint with horror and self-loathing.

But as the day drew to its noon, Hendricks began to feel a persistent detachment from the world
about him. It floated across his consciousness, like the shadow anchor of some cloud far above
him. He began to watch the world go by. He seemed not to be a part of it. He became a spectator.
At four o'clock he passed Dolan on the street and said, absently, "I want you to-night at the
bank at seven o'clock sharp--don't forget, it's very important."

As he walked down Main Street to the bank, the shadow anchor of the cloud had ceased to flit
across his consciousness. Life had grown all gray and dull, and he was apart from the world.
He saw the handbills announcing the meeting that night as one who sees a curious passing show;
the men he met on the street he greeted as creatures from another world. Yet he knew he smiled
and spoke with them casually. But it was not he who spoke; the real Robert Hendricks he knew
was separated from the pantomime about him. When he went into the bank at five o'clock, the
janitor was finishing his work. Hendricks called up the depot on the telephone and found that
No. 6 was an hour late. With the realization that a full hour of his fighting time had been
taken from him and that the train would arrive only a scant hour before the meeting, the Adrian
face of his puzzle turned insistently toward Hendricks. It was not fear but despair that seized
him. The cloud was over him. And for want of something to do he wrote. First he wrote abstractedly
and mechanically to John Barclay, then to Neal Ward--a note for the Banner--and as the twilight
deepened in the room, he squared his chair to the table and wrote to Molly Brownwell; that
letter was the voice of his soul. That was real. Six o'clock struck. Half-past six clanged
on the town clock, and as Jake Dolan opened the bank door, Hendricks heard the roar of the
train crossing at the end of Main Street.

"There goes Johnnie's private car, switching on the tail of her," said Dolan, standing in the
doorway.

Hendricks sent Dolan to a back room of the bank, and at seven-twenty went to the telephone.
"Give me 876, central," he called. "Hello--hello--hello," he cried nervously, "hello--who is
this?" The answer came and he said, "Oh, I didn't recognize your voice." Then he asked in a
low tone, as one who had fear in his heart: "Do you recognize me? If you do, don't speak my
name. Where is Adrian?" Then Mr. Dolan, listening in the next room, heard this: "You say Judge
Bemis phoned to him? Oh, he was to meet him at eight o'clock. How long ago did he leave?" After
a moment Hendricks' answer was: "Then he has just gone; and will not be back?" Hendricks cut
impatiently into whatever answer came with: "Molly, I must see you within the next fifteen
minutes. I can't talk any more over the telephone, but I must come up." "Yes," in a moment,
"I must have your decision in a matter of great importance to you--to you, Molly." There was
a short silence, then Dolan heard: "All right, I'll be there in ten minutes." Then Hendricks
turned from the telephone and called Dolan in. He unlocked a drawer in his desk, and began
speaking to Dolan, who stood over him. Hendricks' voice was low, and he was repressing the
agitation in his heart by main strength.

"Jake," he said, talking as rapidly as he could, "I must be ungodly frank with you. It doesn't
make any difference whether he is right or not, but Adrian Brownwell may be fooled into thinking
he has reason to be jealous of me." Hendricks was biting his mustache. "He's a raging maniac
of jealousy, Jake, but I'm not afraid of him--not for myself. I can get him before he gets
me, if it comes to that, but to do it I'll have to sacrifice Molly. And I won't do that. If
it comes to her good name or my life--she can have my life." They were outside now and Dolan
was unhitching the horse. He knew instinctively that he was not to reply. In a moment Hendricks
went on, "Well, there is just one chance in a hundred that it may turn that way--her good name
or my life--and on that chance I've written some letters here." He reached in his coat and
said, "Now, Jake, put these letters in your pocket and if anything goes wrong with me, deliver
them to the persons whose names are on the envelopes--and to no one else. I must trust everything
to you, Jake," he said.

Driving up the hill, he met Bemis coming down town. He passed people going to the meeting in
Barclay Hall. He did not greet them, but drove on. His jaw was set hard, and the muscles of
his face were firm. As he neared the Culpepper home he climbed from the buggy and hitched the
horse to the block in front of his own house. He hurried into the Culpepper yard, past the
lilac bushes heavy with blooms, and up the broad stone steps with the white pillars looming
above him. It was a quarter to eight, and at that minute Bemis was saying to Adrian Brownwell,
"All right, if you don't believe it, don't take my word for it, but go home right now and see
what you find."

Molly Brownwell met Hendricks on the threshold with trembling steps. "Bob, what is it?" she
asked. They stood in the shadow of the great white pillars, where they had parted a generation ago.

"It's this, Molly," answered Hendricks, as he put his hand to his forehead that was throbbing
with pain; "Lige Bemis has my letter to you. Yes," he cried as she gasped, "the note--the very
note, and to get it I must quit the waterworks fight and go to the meeting to-night and surrender.
I had no right to decide that alone. It is our question, Molly. We are bound by the old life--and
we must take this last stand together."

The woman shrank from Hendricks with horror on her face, as he personified her danger. She
could not reply at once, but stood staring at him in the dusk. As she stared, the feeling that
she had seen it all before in a dream came over her, and the premonition that some awful thing
was impending shook her to the marrow.

"Molly, we have no time to spare," he urged. "I must answer Bemis in ten minutes--I can do
it by phone. But say what you think."

"Why--why--why--Bob--let me think," she whispered, as one trying to speak in a dream, and that
also seemed familiar to her. "It's typhoid for my poor who died like sheep last year," she
cried, "or my good name and yours, is it, Bob? Is it, Bob?" she repeated.

He put his hand to his forehead again in the old way she remembered so well--to temples that
were covered with thin gray hair--and answered, "Yes, Molly, that's our price."

Those were the last words that she seemed to have heard before; after that the dialogue was
all new to her. She was silent a few agonized seconds and then said, "I know what you think,
Bob; you are for my poor; you are brave." He did not answer, fearing to turn the balance. As
she sank into a porch chair a rustling breeze moved the lilac plumes and brought their perfume
to her. From down the avenue came the whir of wheels and the hurrying click of a horse's hoofs.
At length she rose, and said tremulously: "I stand with you, Bob. May God make the blow as
light as He can."

They did not notice that a buggy had drawn up on the asphalt in front of the house. Hendricks
put out his hand and cried, "Oh, Molly--Molly--Molly--" and she took it in both of hers and
pressed it to her lips, and as Adrian Brownwell passed the lilac thicket in the gathering darkness
that is what he saw. Hendricks was halfway down the veranda steps before he was aware that
Brownwell was running up the walk at them, pistol in hand, like one mad. Before the man could
fire, Hendricks was upon him, and had Brownwell's two hands gripped tightly in one of his,
holding them high in the air. The little man struggled.

"Don't scream--for God's sake, don't scream," cried Hendricks to the woman in a suppressed
voice. Then he commanded her harshly, "Go in the house--quick--Molly--quick."

She ran as though hypnotized by the force of the suggestion. Hendricks had his free hand over
Brownwell's mouth and around his neck. The little old man was kicking and wriggling, but Hendricks
held him. "Not here, you fool, not here. Can't you see it would ruin her, you fool? Not here."
He carried and dragged Brownwell across the grass through the shrubbery and into the Hendricks
yard. No one was passing, and the night had fallen. "Now," said Hendricks, as he backed against
a pine tree, still holding Brownwell, "I shall let you go if you'll promise to listen to me
just a minute until I tell you the whole truth. Molly is innocent, man--absolutely innocent,
and I'll show you if you'll talk for a moment. Will you promise, man?"

Brownwell nodded his assent; Hendricks looked at him steadily for a second and then said, "All
right," and set the little man on his feet. The glare of madness came into Brownwell's eyes,
and as he turned he came at Hendricks with his pistol drawn. An instant later there was a shot.
Brownwell saw the amazement flash into Hendricks' eyes, and then Hendricks sank gently to the
foot of the pine tree.

And Molly Brownwell, with the paralysis of terror still upon her, heard the shot and then heard
footsteps running across the grass. A moment later her husband, empty-handed, chattering, shivering,
and white, stumbled into the room. Rage had been conquered by fear. For an agonized second
the man and woman stared at one another, speechless--then the wife cried:--

"Oh--oh--why--why--Adrian," and her voice was thick with fear.--

The man was a-tremble--hands, limbs, body--and his mad eyes seemed to shrink from the woman's
gaze. "Oh, God--God--oh, God--" he panted, and fell upon his face across the sofa. They heard
a hurrying step running toward the Hendricks house, there came a frightened, choked cry of
"Help!" repeated twice, another and another sound of pattering feet came, and five minutes
after the quaking man had entered the door the whole neighbourhood seemed to be alive with
running figures hurrying silently through the gloom. The thud of feet and the pounding of her
heart, and the whimpering of the little man who lay, face down, on the sofa, were the only
sounds in her ears. She started to go with the crowd. But Adrian screamed to her to stay.

"Oh," he cried, "he sank so softly--he sank so softly--he sank so softly! Oh, God, oh, God--he
sank so softly!"

And the next conscious record of her memory was that of Neal Ward bursting into the room, crying,
"Aunt Molly--Aunt Molly--do you know Mr. Hendricks has committed suicide? They've found him
dead with a pistol by his side. I want some whiskey for Miss Hendricks. And they need you right
away."

But Molly Brownwell, with what composure she could, said, "Adrian is sick, Neal--I can't--I
can't leave him now." And she called after Neal as he ran toward the door, "Tell them, Neal,
tell them--why I can't come." There was a hum of voices in the air, and the sound of a gathering
crowd. Soon the shuffle and clatter of a thousand feet made it evident that the meeting at
Barclay Hall had heard the news and was hurrying up the hill. The crowd buzzed for an hour,
and Molly and Adrian Brownwell waited speechless together--he face downward on the sofa, she
huddled in a chair by the window. And then the crowd broke, slowly, first into small groups
that moved away together and then turned in a steady stream and tramped, tramped, tramped down
the hill.

When the silence had been unbroken a long time, save by the rumble of a buggy on the asphalt
or by the footsteps of some stray passerby, the man on the sofa lifted his head, looked at
his wife and spoke, "Well, Molly?"

"Well, Adrian," she answered, "this is the end, I suppose?"

He did not reply for a time, and when he did speak, it was in a dead, passionless voice: "Yes--I
suppose so. I can't stay here now."

"No--no," she returned. "No, you should not stay here."

He sat up and stared vacantly at her for a while and then said, "Though I don't see why I didn't
leave years and years ago; I knew all this then, as well as I do now." The wife looked away
from him as she replied: "Yes, I should have known you would know. I knew your secret and you--"

"My secret," said Adrian, "my secret?"

"Yes--that you came North with your inherited money because when you were in the Confederate
army you were a coward in some action and could not live among your own people."

"Who told you," he asked, "who told you?"

"The one who told you I have always loved Bob; life has told me that, Adrian. Just as life
has told you my story." They sat without speaking for a time, and then the woman sighed and
rose. "Two people who have lived together twenty-five years can have no secrets from each other.
In a thousand, ways the truth comes out."

"I should have gone away a long time ago," he repeated, "a long time ago; I knew it, but I
didn't trust my instincts."

"Here comes father," she said, as the gate clicked.

They stood together, listening to the slow shuffle of the colonel coming up the walk, and the
heavy fall of his cane. The wife put out her hand and said gently, "I think I have wronged
you, Adrian, more than any one else."

He did not take her hand but sighed, and turned and went up the wide stairway. He was an old
man then, and she remembered the years when he tripped up gayly, and then she looked at her
own gray hair in the mirror and saw that her life was spent too.

As the colonel came in gasping asthmatically, he found his daughter waiting for him. "Is Adrian
better?" he asked excitedly. "Neal said Adrian was sick."

"Yes, father, he's upstairs packing. He is going out on the four o'clock train."

"Oh," said the colonel, and then panted a moment before asking, "Has any one told you how it
happened?"

"Yes," she replied, "I know everything. I think I'll run over there now, father." As she stood
in the doorway, she said, "Don't bother Adrian--he'll need no help."

And so Molly Brownwell passed the last night with her dead lover. About midnight the bell rang
and she went to the door.

"Ah, madam," said Jacob Dolan, as he fumbled in his pockets, and tried to breathe away from
her to hide the surcease of his sorrow, "Ah, madam," he repeated, as he suddenly thought to
pull off his hat, "I did not come for you--'twas Miss Hendricks I called for; but I have one
for you, too. He gave the bundle to me the last thing--poor lad, poor lad." He handed her the
letter addressed to Mrs. Brownwell, and then asked, "Is the sister about?"

And when he found she could not be seen he went away, and Molly Brownwell sat by the dead man's
body and read:--

"My darling--my darling--they will let a dead man say that to you--won't they? And yet, so
far as any thought of mine could sin against you, I have been dead these twenty years. Yet
I know that I have loved you all that time, and as I sit alone here in the bank, and take the
bridle off my heart, the old throb of joy that we both knew as children comes back again. It
is such a strange thing--this life--such a strange thing." Then there followed a burst of passionate
regret from the man's very heart, and it is so sacred to a manly love that curbed itself for
a score of years, that it must not be set down here.

Over and over Molly Brownwell read the letter and then crept out to her lilac thicket and wept
till dawn. She heard Adrian Brownwell go, but she could not face him, and listened as his footsteps
died away, and he passed from her life.

And John Barclay kept vigil for the dead with her. As he tossed in his bed through the night,
he seemed to see glowing out of the darkness before him the words Hendricks had written, in
the letter that Dolan gave Barclay at midnight. Sometimes the farewell came to him:--

"It is not this man of millions that I wish to be with a moment to-night, John--but the boy
I knew in the old days--the boy who ran with me through the woods at Wilson's Creek, the boy
who rode over the hill into the world with me that September day forty years ago; the boy whose
face used to beam eagerly out of yours when you sat playing at your old melodeon. I wish to
be near him a little while to-night. When you get this, can't you go to your great organ and
play him back into consciousness and tell him Bob says good-by?"

At dawn Barclay called Bemis out of bed, and before sunrise he and Barclay were walking on
the terrace in front of the Barclay home.

"Lige," began Barclay, "did you tell Adrian of that note last night?" Bemis grinned his assent.

"And he went home, found Bob there conferring with Mrs. Brownwell about his position in the
matter, and Adrian killed him."

"That's the way I figured it out myself," replied Bemis, laconically, "but it's not my business
to say so."

"I thought you promised me you would just bluff with that note and not go so far, Lige Bemis,"
said Barclay.

"Did he just bluff with me when he called me a boodler and threw me downstairs in the county
convention?"

"Then you lied to me, sir," snapped Barclay.

"Oh, hell, John--come off," sneered Bemis. "Haven't I got a right to lie to you if I want to?"

The two men stared at each other like growling dogs for a moment, and then Barclay turned away
with, "What is there in the typhoid talk?"

"Demagogery--that's all. Of course there may be typhoid in the water; but let 'em boil the water."

"But they won't."

"Well, then, if they eat too much of your 'Old Honesty' or drink too much of my water unboiled,
they take their own risk. You don't make a breakfast food for hogs, and I can't run my water
plant for fools."

"But, Lige," protested Barclay, "couldn't we hitch up the electric plant--"

"Hitch up the devil and Tom Walker, John Barclay. When the wolves got after you, did I come
blubbering to you to lay down and take a light sentence?" Barclay did not answer. Bemis continued:
"Brace up, John--what's turned you baby when we've got the whole thing won? We didn't kill
Hendricks, did we? Are you full of remorse and going to turn state's evidence?"

Barclay looked at the ground for a time, and said: "I believe, Lige, we did kill Bob--if it
comes to that; and we are morally responsible for--"

"Oh, bag your head, John; I'm going home. When you can talk some sense, let me know."

And Bemis left Barclay standing in the garden looking at the sunrise across the mill-pond.
Presently the carrier boy with a morning paper came around, and in it Barclay read the account
of Hendricks' reported suicide, corroborated by his antemortem statement, written and delivered
to Jacob Dolan an hour before he died.

"When I took charge of the Exchange National Bank," it read, "I found that my father owed Garrison
County nine thousand dollars for another man's taxes, which he, my father, had agreed to pay,
but had no money to do so. The other man insisted on my father forging a note to straighten
matters up. It seemed at that time that the bank would close and the whole county would be
ruined if my father had not committed that deed. I could not put the money back into the treasury
without revealing my father's crime, so I let the matter run for a few years, renewing the
forged note, and then, as it seemed an interminable job of forgery, I forged the balance on
the county books, one afternoon between administrations in 1879. Mr. E. W. Bemis, who is trying
to force polluted water on Sycamore Ridge, has discovered this forgery and has threatened to
expose me in that and perhaps other matters. So I feel that my usefulness in the fight for
pure water in the town is ended. I leave funds to fight the matter in the courts, and I feel
sure that we will win."

Barclay sat in the warm morning sun, reading and re-reading the statement. Finally Jane Barclay,
thin, broken and faded, on whom the wrath of the people was falling with crushing weight, came
into the veranda, and put her hands on her husband's shoulders.

"Come in, John, breakfast is ready."

The woman whom the leprosy of dishonest wealth was whitening, walked dumbly into the great
house, and ate in silence. "I am going to Molly," she said simply, as the two rose from their
meal. "I think she needs me, dear; won't you come, too?" she asked.

"I can't, Jane--I can't," cried Barclay. And when his wife had pressed him, he broke forth:
"Because Lige Bemis made Adrian kill Bob and I helped--" he groaned, and sank into his chair,
"and I helped."

When Neal Ward came to the office the next morning, he found Dolan waiting for him. Ward opened
the envelope that Dolan gave him, and found in it the mortgage Hendricks had owned on the Banner
office, assigned to Ward, and around the mortgage was a paper band on which was written: "God
bless you, my boy--keep up the fight; never say die."

Then Ward read Adrian Brownwell's valedictory that was hanging on a copy spike before him.
It was the heart-broken sob of an old man who had run away from failure and sorrow, and it
need not be printed here.

On Memorial Day, when they came to the cemetery on the hill to decorate the soldiers' graves,
men saw that the great mound of lilacs on Robert Hendricks' grave had withered. The seven days'
wonder of his passing was ended. The business that he had left prospered without him, or languished
and died; within a week in all but a dozen hearts Hendricks' memory began to recede into the
past, and so, where there had been a bubble on the tide, that held in its prism of light for
a brief bit of eternity all of God's spectacle of life, suddenly there was only the tide moving
resistlessly toward the unknown shore. And thus it is with all of us.

CHAPTER XXVIII

In the summer of 1904, following the death of Robert Hendricks, John Barclay spent much time
in the Ridge, more time than he had spent there for thirty years. For in the City he was a
marked man. Every time the market quivered, reporters rushed to get his opinion about the cause
of the disturbance; the City papers were full of stories either of his own misdeeds, or of
the wrong-doings of other men of his caste. His cronies were dying all about him of broken
hearts or wrecked minds, and it seemed to him that the word "indictment" was in every column
of every newspaper, was on every man's lips, and literally floated in the air.

So he remained in Sycamore Ridge much of the time, and every fair afternoon he rowed himself
up the mill-pond to fish. He liked to be alone; for when he was alone, he could fight the battle
in his soul without interruption. The combat had been gathering for a year; a despair was rising
in him, that he concealed from his womenkind--who were his only intimate associates in those
days--as if it had been a crime. But out on the mill-pond alone, casting minnows for bass,
he could let the melancholy in his heart rage and battle with his sanity, without let or hindrance.
His business was doing well; the lawsuits against the company in a dozen states were not affecting
dividends, and the department in charge of his charities was forwarding letters of condolence
and consolation from preachers and college presidents, and men who under the old regime had
been in high walks of life. Occasionally some conservative newspaper or magazine would praise
him and his company highly; but he knew the shallowness of all the patter of praise. He knew
that he paid for it in one way or another, and he grew cynical; and in his lonely afternoons
on the river, often he laughed at the whole mockery of his career, smiled at the thought of
organized religion, licking his boots for money like a dog for bones, and then in his heart
he said there is no God. Once, to relieve the pain of his soul's woe, he asked aloud, who is
God, anyway, and then laughed as he thought that the bass nibbling at his minnow would soon
think he, John Barclay, was God. The analogy pleased him, and he thought that his own god,
some devilish fate, had the string through his gills at that moment and was preparing to cast
him into the fire. Up in the office in the city, they went on making senators and governors,
and slipping a federal judge in where they could, but he had little hand in it, for his power
was a discarded toy. He sat in his boat alone, rowing for miles and miles, from stump to stump,
and from fallen tree-top to tree-top, hating the thing he called God, and distrusting men.

But when he appeared in the town, or at home, he was cheerful enough; he liked to mingle with
the people, and it fed his despair to notice what a hang-dog way they had with him. He knew
they had been abusing him behind his back, and when he found out exactly what a man had said,
he delighted in facing the man down with it.

"So you think John Barclay could have saved Bob Hendricks' life, do you, Oscar?" asked Barclay,
as he overhauled Fernald coming out of the post-office.

"Who said so?" asked Fernald, turning red.

"Oh," chuckled Barclay, "I got it from the hired girls' wireless news agency. But you said
it all right--you said it, Oscar; you said it over to Ward's at dinner night before last."
And Barclay grinned maliciously.

Fernald scratched his head, and said, "Well, John, to be frank with you, that's the talk all
over town--among the people."

"The people--the people," snapped Barclay, impatiently, "the people take my money for bridges
and halls and parks and churches and statues and then call me a murderer--oh, damn the people!
Who started this story?"

"See Jake Dolan, John--it's up to him. He can satisfy you," said Fernald, and turned, leaving
Barclay in the street.

Up the hill trudged the gray-clad little man, with his pugnacious shoulders weaving and his
bronzed face set hard and his mean jaw locked. On the steps of the court-house he found Jake
Dolan, smoking a morning pipe with the loafers in the shade of the building.

"Here you, Jake Dolan," called Barclay, "what do you mean by accusing me of murdering Bob Hendricks?
What did I have to do with it?"

"Easy, easy, Johnnie, my boy," returned Dolan, knocking the ashes from his pipe on the steps
between his feet. "Gentlemen," said Dolan, addressing the crowd, "you've heard what our friend
says. All right--come with me to my office, Johnnie Barclay, and I'll show you." Barclay followed
Dolan into the basement of the court-house, with the crowd at a respectful distance. "Right
this way--" and Dolan switched on an electric light. "Do you see that break in the foundation,
Mr. Barclay? You do? And you know in your soul that it opens into the cave that leads to the
cellar of your own house. Well, then, Mr. Johnnie Barclay--the book that contained the evidence
against Bob Hendricks did not go out of this court-house by the front door, as you well know,
but through that hole--stolen at night when I was out; and the man who stole it was the horse
thief that used to run the cave--your esteemed friend, Lige Bemis."

The crowd was gaping at the rickety place in the foundation, and one man pulled a loose stone
out and let the cold air of the cave into the room.

"Lige Bemis came to your house, Mr. Johnnie Barclay, got into the cave from your cellar, broke
through this wall, and stole the book that contained the forgery made to cover General Hendricks'
disgrace. And who caused that disgrace but the overbearing, domineering John Barclay, who made
that old man steal to pay John Barclay's taxes, back in the grasshopper year, when the sheriff
and the jail were almost as familiar to him as they are now,--by all counts. Ah, John Barclay,"
said the Irishman, turning to the crowd, "John Barclay, John Barclay--you're a brave little
man sometimes; I've seen you when I was most ungodly proud of you; I've seen you do grand things,
my little man, grand things. But you're a coward too, Johnnie; sitting in your own house while
your horse-thief friend used your cellar to work out the disgrace of the man who gave his good
name to save your own--that was a fine trick--a damn fine trick, wasn't it, Mr. Barclay?"

Barclay started to go, but the crowd blocked his way. Dolan saw that Barclay was trying to
escape. "Turn tail, will you, my little man? Wait one minute," cried Dolan. "Wait one minute,
sir. For what was you conniving against the big man? I know--to win your game; to win your
miserable little game. Ah, what a pup a man can be, Johnnie, what a mangy, miserable, cowardly
little pup a man can be when he tries--and a decent man, too. Money don't mean anything to
you--you got past that, but it's to win the game. Why, man, look at yourself--look at yourself--you'd
cheat your own mother playing cards with matches for counters--just to win the game." Dolan
waved for the crowd to break. "Let him out of here, and get out yourselves--every one of you.
This is public property you're desecrating."

Dolan sat alone in his office, pale and trembling after the crowd had gone. Colonel Culpepper
came puffing in and saw the Irishman sitting with his head in his hands and his elbows on the
table.

"What's this, Jake--what's this I hear?" asked the colonel.

"Oh, nothing," answered Dolan, and then he looked up at the colonel with sad, remorseful eyes.
"What a fool--what a fool whiskey in a man's tongue is--what a fool." He reached under his
cot for his jug, and repeated as he poured the liquor into a glass, "What a fool, what a fool,
what a fool." And then, as he gulped it down and made a wry face, "Poor little Johnnie at the
mill; I didn't mean to hit him so hard--not half so hard. What a fool, what a fool," and the
two old men started off for the harness shop together.

Neal Ward that night, in the Banner office alone, wrote to his sweetheart the daily letter
that was never mailed.

    "How sweet it is," he writes, "to have you at home. Sometimes I hear
    your voice through the old leaky telephone, talking to Aunt Molly;
    her phone and ours are through the same board, and your voice seems
    natural then, and unstrained, not as it is when we meet. But I know
    that some way we are meeting--our souls--in the infinite realm
    outside ourselves--beyond our consciousness--either sleeping or
    waking. Last night I dreamed a strange dream. A little girl, like
    one of the pictures in mother's old family photograph album, seemed
    to be talking with me,--dressed so quaintly in the dear old fashion
    of the days when mother taught the Sycamore Ridge School. She seemed
    to be playing with me in some way, and then she said: 'Oh, yes, I am
    your telephone; she knows all about it. I tell her every night as we
    play together.' And then she was no longer a little girl but a most
    beautiful soul and she said with great gentleness: 'In her heart she
    loves you--in her heart she loves you. This I know, only she is
    proud--proud with the Barclay pride; but in her heart she loves you;
    is not that enough?' What a strange dream! I wonder where we are--we
    who animate our bodies, when we sleep. What is sleep, but the proof
    that death is but a sleep? Oh, Jeanette, Jeanette, come into my soul
    as we sleep."

He folded the letter, sealed and addressed it, and dated the envelope, and put it in his desk--the
desk before which Adrian Brownwell had sat, eating his heart out in futile endeavour to find
his place in the world. Neal Ward had cleaned out one side of the desk, and was using that
for his own. Mrs. Brownwell kept her papers in the other side, and one key locked them both.
As he walked home that night under the stars, his heart was full of John Barclay's troubles.
Neal knew Barclay well enough to know that the sensitive nature of the man, with his strongly
developed instinctive faculty for getting at the truth, would be his curse in the turmoil or
criticism through which he was going. So a day or two later Neal was not surprised to find
a long statement in the morning press despatches from Barclay explaining and defending the
methods of the National Provisions Company. He proved carefully that the notorious Door Strip
saved large losses in transit of the National Provisions Company's grain and grain produce,
and showed that in paying him for the use of these strips the railroad companies were saving
great sums for widowed and orphaned stockholders of railroads--sums which would be his due
for losses in transit if the strips were not used.

Neal Ward knew what it had cost Barclay in pride to give out that statement; so the young man
printed it on the first page of the Banner with a kind editorial about Mr. Barclay and his
good works. That night when the paper was off, and young Ward was working on the books of his
office, he was called to the telephone.

"Is this you, Nealie Ward?" asked a woman's voice--the strong, clear, deep voice of an old
woman. And when he had answered, the voice went on: "Well, Nealie, I wish to thank you for
that editorial about John to-night in the paper; I'm Mary Barclay. It isn't more than half
true, Nealie; and if it was all true, it isn't a fraction of what the truth ought to be if
John did what he could, but it will do him a lot of good--right here in the home paper, and--Why,
Jennie, I'm speaking with Nealie Ward,--why, do you think I am not old enough to talk with
Nealie without breeding scandal?--as I was saying, my dear, it will cheer John up a little,
and heaven knows he needs something. I'm--Jennie, for mercy sakes keep still; I know Nealie
Ward and I knew his father when he wasn't as old as Nealie--did his washing for him; and boarded
his mother four winters, and I have a right to say what I want to to that child." The boy and
the grandmother laughed into the telephone. "Jennie is so afraid I'll do something improper,"
laughed Mrs. Barclay. "Oh, yes, by the way--here's a little item for your paper to-morrow:
Jennie's mother is sick; I think it's typhoid, but you can't get John to admit it. So don't
say typhoid." Then with a few more words she rang off.

When the Banner printed the item about Mrs. Barclay's illness, the town, in one of those outbursts
of feeling which communities often have, seemed to try to show John Barclay the affection that
was in their hearts for the man who had grown up among them, and the family that had been established
under his name. Flowers--summer flowers--poured in on the Barclays. Children came with wild
flowers, prairie flowers that Jane Barclay had not seen since she roamed over the unbroken
sod about Minneola as a girl; and Colonel Culpepper came marching up the walk through the Barclay
grounds, bearing his old-fashioned bouquet, as grandly as an ambassador bringing a king's gift.
Jane Barclay sent word that she wished to see him.

"My dear," said the colonel, as he held the flowers toward her, "accept these flowers from
those who have shared your bounty--from God's poor, my dear; these are God's smiles that they
send you from their hearts--from their very hearts, my dear, from their poor hearts wherein
God's smiles come none too often." She saw through glistening eyes the broken old figure, with
his coat tightly buttoned on that July day to hide some shabbiness underneath. But she bade
the colonel sit down, and they chatted of old times and old places and old faces for a few
minutes; and the colonel, to whom any sort of social function was a rare and sweet occasion,
stayed until the nurse had to beckon him out of the room over Mrs. Barclay's shoulder.

General Ward sent a note with a bunch of monthly blooming roses.

    "MY DEAR JANE (he wrote): These roses are from slips we got from
    John's mother when we planted our little yard. This red one is from
    the very bush on which grew the rose John wore at his wedding. Pin
    it on the old scamp to-night, and see how he will look. He was a
    dapper little chap that night, and the years have hardly begun their
    work on him; or perhaps he is such a tough customer that he dulls
    the chisel of time. I do not know, and so long as it is so, you do
    not care, but we both know, and are both glad that of all the many
    things God has sent you in thirty years, he has sent you nothing so
    fine as the joy that came with the day John wore this rose for
    you--a joy that has grown while the rose has faded. And may this
    rose renew your joy for another thirty years."

John read the note when he came in from the mill that evening, and Jane watched the years slip
off his face. He looked into the past as it spread itself on the carpet near the bed.

"Well, well, well," he said, as he smiled into the picture he saw, "I remember as well the
general bringing that rose down to the office that morning, wrapped in blue tissue paper from
cotton batting rolls! The package was tied with fancy red braid that used to bind muslin bolts."
He laughed quietly, and asked, "Jane, do you remember that old red braid?" The sick woman nodded.
"Well, with the little blue package was a note from Miss Lucy, which said that my old teacher
could not give me a present that year--times were cruelly hard then, you remember--but that
she could and did put the blessing of her prayers on the rose, that all that it witnessed at
my wedding would bring me happiness." He sat for a moment in silence, and, as the nurse was
gone, he knelt beside the sick woman and kissed her. And as the wife stroked his head she whispered,
"How that prayer has been answered, John--dear, hasn't it?" And the great clock in the silent
hall below ticked away some of the happiest minutes it had ever measured.

But when he passed out of the sick room, the world--the maddening press of affairs, and the
combat in his soul--snapped back on his shoulders with a mental click as though a load had
fallen into its old place. He stood before his organ, and could not press the keys. As he sat
there in the twilight made by the shaded electric lamps, the struggle rose in his heart against
the admission of anything into his scheme of life but material things, and the conflict raged
unchecked. What a silliness, he said, to think that the mummery of a woman over a rose could
affect a life. Life is what the succession of the days brings. The thing is or is not, he said
to himself, and the gibber about prayer and the moral force that moves the universe is for
the weak-minded. So he took his hell to bed with him as it went every night, and during the
heavy hours when he could not sleep, he tiptoed into the sick room, and looked at the thin
face of his wife, sleeping a restless, feverish sleep, and a great fear came into his heart.

Once as the morning dawned he asked the nurse whom he met in the hall, "Is it typhoid?"

She was a stranger to the town, and she said to him, "What does the doctor tell you?"

"That's not the point," he insisted. "What do you think?"

She looked at him for an undecided moment and replied, "I'm not paid to think, Mr. Barclay,"
and went past him with her work. But he knew the truth. He went to his bed, and threw himself
upon it, a-tremble with remorse and fear, and the sneer in his heart stilled his lips and he
could not look outside himself for help. So the morning came, and another day, bringing its
thousand cares, faced him, like a jailer with his tortures.

Time dragged slowly in the sick room and at the mill. One doctor brought another, and the Barclay
private car went far east and came flying back with a third. The town knew that Mrs. John Barclay
was dangerously sick. There came hopeful days when the patient's mind was clear; on one of
these days Mrs. McHurdie called, and they let her see the sick woman. She brought some flowers.

"In the flowers, Jane," she said, "you will find something from Watts." Mrs. McHurdie smiled.
"You know he sat up till 'way after midnight last night, playing his accordion. Oh, it's been
years since he has touched it. And this morning when I got up, I found him sitting by the kitchen
table, writing. It's a poem for you." Mrs. McHurdie looked rather sheepish as she said: "You
know how Watts is, Jane; he just made me bring it. You can read it when you get well."

They hurried Mrs. McHurdie out, and when Jane Barclay went to sleep, they found tears on her
pillow, and in her hand the verses,--the limping, awkward verses of an old man, whose music
only echoed back from the past. The nurses and the young doctor from Boston had a good laugh
at it. Each of the four stanzas began with two lines that asked: "Oh, don't you remember the
old river road, that ran through the sweet-scented wood?" To them it was a curious parody on
something old and quaint that they had long since forgotten. But to the woman who lay murmuring
of other days, whose lips were parched for the waters of brooks that had surrendered to the
plough a score of years ago, the halting verses of Watts McHurdie were laden with odours of
grape blossoms, of wild cucumbers and sumach, of elder blossoms, and the fragrance of the crushed
leaves of autumn. And the music of distant ripples played in her feverish brain and the sobbing
voice of the turtle dove sang out of the past for her as she slept. All through the day and
the night and for many nights and days she whispered of the trees and the running water and
the wild grass and the birds.

And so one morning when it was still gray, she woke and said to John, who bent over her, "Why,
dear, we are almost home; there are the lights across the river; just one more hill, dearie,
and then--" And then with the water prattling in her ears at the last ford she turned to the
wall and sank to rest.

Day after day, until the days and nights became a week and the week repeated itself until nearly
a month was gone, John Barclay, dry-eyed and all but dumb, paced the terrace before his house
by night, and by day roamed through the noisy mill or wandered through his desolate house,
seeking peace that would not come to him. The whole foundation of his scheme of life was crumbling
beneath him. He had built thirty-five years of his manhood upon the theory that the human brain
is the god of things as they are and as they must be. The structure of his life was an imposing
edifice, and men called it great and successful. Yet as he walked his lonely way in those black
days that followed Jane's death, there came into his consciousness a strong, overmastering
conviction, which he dared not accept, that his house was built on sand. For here were things
outside of his plans, outside of his very beliefs, coming into his life, bringing calamity,
sorrow, and tragedy with them into his own circle of friends, into his own household, into
his own heart. As he walked through the dull, lonely hours he could not escape the vague feeling,
though he fought it as one mad fights for his delusion, that all the tragedies piling up about
him came from his own mistakes. Over and over again he threshed the past. Molly Brownwell's
cry, "You have sold me into bondage, John Barclay," would not be stilled, though at times he
could smile at it; and the broken body and shamed face of her father haunted him like an obsession.
Night after night when he tried to sleep, Robert Hendricks' letter burned in fire before his
eyes, and at last so mad was the struggle in his soul that he hugged these things to him that
he might escape the greater horror: the dreadful red headlines in the sensational paper they
had sent him from the City office which screamed at him, "John Barclay slays his wife--Aids
a water franchise grab that feeds the people typhoid germs and his own wife dies of the fever."
He had not replied to the letter from the law department of the Provisions Company which asked
if he wished to sue for libel, and begged him to do so. He had burned the paper, but the headlines
were seared into his brain.

Over and over he climbed the fiery ladder of his sins: the death of General Hendricks, the
sacrifice of Molly Culpepper, the temptation and fall of her father, the death of his boyhood's
friend, and then the headlines. These things were laid at his door, and over and over again,
like Sisyphus rolling the stones uphill, he swept them away from his threshold, only to find
that they rolled right back again. And with them came at times the suspicion that his daughter's
unhappiness was upon him also. And besides these things, a hundred business transactions wherein
he had cheated and lied for money rose to disturb him. And through it all, through his anguish
and shame, the faith of his life kept battling for its dominion.

Once he sent for Bemis and tried to talk himself into peace with his friend. He did not speak
of the things that were corroding his heart, but he sat by and heard himself chatter his diabolic
creed as a drunkard watches his own folly.

"Lige," he said, "I'm sick of that infernal charities bureau we've got. I'm going to abolish
it. These philanthropic millionaires make me sick at the stomach, Lige. What do they care for
the people? They know what I know, that the damn people are here to be skinned." He laughed
viciously and went on: "Sometimes I think we filthy rich are divided into two classes: those
of us who keep mistresses, and those of us who have harmless little entanglements with preachers
and college presidents. Neither the lemon-haired women nor the college presidents interfere
with our business; they don't hamper us--not the slightest. They just take our money, and for
a few idle hours amuse us, and make us feel that we are good fellows. As for me, I'll have
neither women nor college presidents purring around my ankles. I'm going to cut out the philanthropy
appropriation to-day."

And he was as good as his word. But that did not help. The truth kept wrenching his soul, and
his feet blindly kept trying to find a path to peace.

It was late one night in August, and a dead moon was hanging in the south, when, treading the
terrace before his house, he saw a shadow moving down the stairway in the hall. At first his
racked nerves quivered, but when he found that it was his mother, he went to meet her, exclaiming
as he mounted the steps to the veranda, "Why, mother, what is it--is anything wrong?"

Though it was past midnight, Mary Barclay was dressed for the day. She stood in the doorway
with the dimmed light behind her, a tall, strong woman, straight and gaunt as a Nemesis. "No,
John--nothing is wrong--in the house." She walked into the veranda and began as she approached
a chair, "Sit down, John; I wish to talk with you."

"Well, mother--what is it?" asked the son, as he sat facing her.

She paused a moment looking earnestly at his face and replied, "The time has come when we must
talk this thing out, John, soul to soul."

He shrank from what was coming. His instinct told him to fight away the crisis. He began to
palaver, but his mother cut him short, as she exclaimed:--

"Why don't you let Him in, John?"

"Let who in?" asked her son.

"You know Whom, John Barclay; that was your grandfather speaking then, the old polly foxer.
You know, my boy. Don't you remember me bending over the town wash-tub when you were a child,
Johnnie? Don't you remember the old song I used to sing--of course you do, child--as I rubbed
the clothes on the board: 'Let Him in, He is your friend, let Him in, He is your friend; He
will keep you to the end--let--Him--in!' Of course you remember it, boy, and you have been
fighting Him with all your might for six months now, and since Jane went, the fight is driving
you crazy--can't you see, John?"

The son did not reply for a moment, then he said, "Oh, well, mother, that was all right in
that day, but--"

"John Barclay," cried the mother sternly, as she leaned toward him, "the faith that bore your
father a martyr to the grave, sustained me in this wilderness, and kept me happy as I scrubbed
for your bread, shall not be scoffed in my presence. We are going to have this thing out to-night.
I, who bore you, and nursed you, and fed you, and staked my soul on your soul, have some rights
to-night. Here you are, fifty-four years old, and what have you done? You've killed your friend
and your friend's father before him--I know that, John. You've wrecked the life of the sister
of your first sweetheart, and put fear and disgrace in her father's face forever--forever,
John Barclay, as long as he lives. I know that too; I haven't been wrapped in pink cotton all
these years, boy--I've lived my own life since you left my wing, and made my own way too, as
far as that goes. And now you are trying to quench the fires of remorse in your soul because
your wife died a victim of your selfish, ruthless, practical scheme of things. More than that,
my son--more than that, your child is suffering all the agony that a woman can suffer because
of your devilish system of traffic in blood for money. You know what I mean, John. That boy
told the truth, as you admit, and he could either run or lie, and for being a man you have
broken up a God-sent love merely to satisfy your own vanity. Oh, John--John," she cried passionately,
"my poor, blind, foolish boy--haven't you found the ashes in the core of your faith yet--aren't
you ready to quit?"

He began, "Don't you think, mother, I have suffered--"

"Suffered, boy? Suffered? Of course you have suffered, John," she answered, taking his hands
in hers. "I have seen the furnace fires smoking your face, and I know you have suffered, Johnnie;
that's why I am coming to you--to ask you to quit suffering. Look at it, my boy--what are you
suffering for? Is it material power you want? Well, you have never had it. The people are going
right along running their own affairs in spite of you. All your nicely built card houses are
knocked over. In the states and in the federal government, in spite of your years of planning
and piecing out your little practical system, at the very first puff of God's breath it goes
to pieces. The men whom you bought and paid for don't stay bought--do they, my boy? Oh, your
old mother knows, John. Men who will sell are never worth buying; and the house that relies
on them, falls. You have built a sand dam, son--like the dams you used to build in the spring
stream when you were a child. It melts under pressure like straw. You have no worldly power.
In this practical world you are a failure, and good old Phil Ward, who went out into the field
and scattered seeds of discontent at your system--he is seeing his harvest ripen in his old
age, John," she cried. "Can't you see your failure? Look at it from a practical standpoint:
what thing in the last thirty years have you advocated, and Philemon Ward opposed, that to-day
he has not realized and you lost? His prescription for the evils may have been wrong many times,
but his diagnosis of them was always right, and they are being cured, in spite of all your
protest that they did not exist. Which of you has won his practical fight in this practical
world--his God or your God; the ideal world or the material world, boy? Can't you see it?"
The old woman leaned forward and looked in her son's dull, unresponsive face. "Can't you see
how you have failed?" she pleaded.

They rose together and began to pace the long floor of the veranda. "Oh, mother," he cried,
as he put his arm about her, "I am so lonely--so tired, so sick in the heart of me."

They didn't speak for a time, but walked together in silence. At length the mother began again.
"John," she said, as they turned at the end of the porch, "I suppose you are saying that you
have your money--that it is material--solid, substantial, and undeniable. But is it? Isn't
it all a myth? Leave it where it is--in the shape of securities and stocks and credits--what
will it do? Will it bring Jane back? Will it give Jeanette her heart's desire, and make her
happy all her life? You know, dear, that it will only make me miserable. Has it made you happy,
John? Turn it into gold and pile it up in the front yard--and what will it buy that poor Phil
Ward has not had all of his life--good food, good clothing--good enough, at least--a happy
family, useful children, and a good name? A good name, John, is rather to be chosen than great
riches--than all your money, my son--rather to be chosen than all your money. Can you buy that
with your millions piled on millions?"

They were walking slowly as she spoke, and they turned into the terrace. There they stood looking
at the livid moon sinking behind the great house.

"Is there more joy in this house than in any other house in town, John--answer me squarely,
son--answer me," she cried. He shook his head sadly and sighed. "A mother, whose heart bleeds
every hour as she sees her son torturing himself with footless remorse; that is one. A heart-broken,
motherless girl, whose lover has been torn away from her by her father's vanity and her own
pride, and whose mother has been taken as a pawn in the game her father played with no motive,
no benefit, nothing but to win his point in a miserable little game of politics; that is number
two. And a man who should be young for twenty years yet, who should have been useful for thirty
years--and now what is he? powerless, useless, wretched, lonely, who spends his time walking
about fighting against God, that he may prove his own wisdom and nothing more."

"Mother," cried Barclay, petulantly, "I can't stand this--that you should turn on me--now."
He broke away from her, and stood alone. "When I need you most, you reproach me. When I need
sympathy, you scorn all that I have done. You can't prove your God. Why should I accept Him?"

The gaunt old woman stretched out her arms and cried: "Oh, John Barclay, prove your god. Tell
him to come and give you a moment's happiness--set him to work to restore your good name; command
him to make Jeanette happy. These things my God can do! Let your Mammon," she cried with all
the passion of her soul, "let your Mammon come down and do one single miracle like that." Her
voice broke and she sobbed. "What a tower of Babel--an industrial Babel, you are building,
John--you and your kith and kind. The last century gave us Schopenhauers and Kants, all denying
God, and this one gives us Railroad Kings and Iron Kings and Wheat Kings, all by their works
proclaiming that Mammon has the power and the glory and the Kingdom. O ye workers of iniquity!"
she cried, and her voice lifted, "ye wicked and perverse--"

She did not finish, but broken and trembling, her strength spent and her faith scorned, she
sank on her knees by a marble urn on the terrace and sobbed and prayed. When she rose, the
dawn was breaking, and she looked for a moment at her son, who had been sitting near her, and
cried: "Oh, my boy, my little boy that I nursed at my breast--let Him in, He is your friend--and
oh, my God, sustain my faith!"

Her son came to her side and led her into the house. But he went to his room and began the
weary round, battling for his own faith.

As he stood by his open window that day at the mill, he saw Molly Brownwell across the pond,
going into his home. He watched her idly and saw Jeanette meet her at the door, and then as
his memory went back to the old days, he tried to find tears for the woman who had died, but
he could only rack his soul. Tears were denied to him.

He was a rich man--was John Barclay; some people thought that, taking his wealth as wealth
goes, all carefully invested in substantial things--in material things, let us say--he was
the richest man in the Mississippi Valley. He bought a railroad that day when he looked through
the office window at Molly Brownwell--a railroad three thousand miles long. And he bought a
man's soul in a distant city--a man whom he did not know even by name, but the soul was thrown
in "to boot" in a bargain; and he bought a woman's body whose face he had never seen, and that
went as part of another trade he was making and he did not even know they had thrown it in.
And he bought a child's life, and he bought a city's prosperity in another bargain, and bought
the homage of a state, and the tribute of a European kingdom, as part of the day's huckstering.
But with all his wealth and power, he could not buy one tear--not one little, miserable tear
to moisten his grief-dried heart. For tears, just then, were a trifle high. So Mr. Barclay
had to do without, though the man whose soul he bought wept, and the woman whose body came
with a trade, sobbed, and the dead face of the child was stained with a score of tears.

They went to Jeanette Barclay's room,--the gray-haired woman and the girl,--and they sat there
talking for a time--talking of things that were on their lips and not in their hearts. Each
felt that the other understood her. And each felt that something was to be said. For one day
before the end Jeanette's mother had said to her: "Jennie, if I am not here always go to Molly--ask
her to tell you about her girlhood." The mother had rested for a while, and then added, "Tell
her I said for you to ask her, and she'll know what I mean."

"Jeanette," said Molly Brownwell, "your mother and I were girls together. Your father saw more
of her at our house than he did at her own home, until they married. Did you know that?" Jeanette
nodded assent. "So one day last June she said to me, 'Molly, sometime I wish you would tell
Jennie all about you and Bob.'"

Mrs. Brownwell paused, and Jeanette said, "Yes, mother told me to ask you to, Aunt Molly."
Tears came into the daughter's eyes, and she added, "I think she knew even then that--"

And then it all came back, and after a while the elder woman was saying, "Well, once upon a
time there lived a princess, my dear. All good stories begin so--don't they? She was a fat,
pudgy little princess who longed to grow up and have hoop-skirts like a real sure-enough woman
princess, and there came along a tall prince--the tallest, handsomest prince in all the wide
world, I think. And he and the princess fell in love, as princesses and princes will, you know,
my dear,--just as they do now, I am told. And the prince had to go away on business and be
gone a long, long time, and while he was gone the father of the princess and the friend of
the prince got into trouble--and the princess thought it was serious trouble. She thought the
father of the prince would have to go to jail and maybe the prince and his friend fail. My,
my, Jeanette, what a big word that word fail seemed to the little fat princess! So she let
a man make love to her who could lend them all some money and keep the father out of jail and
the prince and his friend from the awful fate of failure. So the man lent the money and made
love, and made love. And the little princess had to listen; every one seemed to like to have
her listen, so she listened and she listened, and she was a weak little princess. She knew
she had wronged the prince by letting the man make love to her, and her soul was smudged and--oh,
Jeanette, she was such a foolish, weak, miserable little princess, and they didn't tell her
that there is only one prince for every princess, and one princess for every prince--so she
took the man, and sent away the prince, and the man made love ever so beautifully--but it was
not the real thing, my dear,--not the real thing. And afterwards when she saw the prince--so
young and so strong and so handsome, her heart burned for him as with a flame, and she was
not ashamed; the wicked, wicked princess, she didn't know. And so they walked together one
night right up to the brink of the bad place, dearie--right up to the brink; and the princess
shuddered back, and saved the prince. Oh, Jeanette, Jeanette, Jeanette," sobbed the woman,
in the girl's arms, "right in this room, in this very room, which was your mother's room in
the old house, I came out of the night, as bad a woman as God ever sent away from Him. And
your mother and I cried it out, and talked it out, and I fought it out, and won. Oh, I won,
Jeanette--I won!"

The two women were silent for a time, and then the elder went on: "That's what your mother
wished you to know--that for every princess there is just one real prince, and for every prince
there is just one real princess, my dear, and when you have found him, and know he is true,
nothing--not money, not friends, not father nor mother--when he is honest, not even pride--should
stand between you. That is what your mother sent you, dearie. Do you understand?"

"I think I do, Aunt Molly--I think so," repeated the girl. She looked out of the window for
a moment, and then cried, "Oh, Aunt Molly--but I can't, I can't. How could he, Aunt Molly--how
could he?" The girl buried her face in the woman's lap, and sobbed.

After a time the elder woman spoke. "You know he loves you, don't you, dear?"

The girl shook her head and cried, "But how could he?" and repeated it again and again.

"And you still love him--I know that, my dear, or you could not--you would not care, either,"
she added.

And so after a time the tears dried, as tears will, and the two women fell back into the pale
world of surfaces, and as Molly Brownwell left she took the girl's hand and said: "You won't
forget about the little pudgy princess--the dear, foolish, little weak princess, will you,
Jeanette? And, dearie," she added as she stood on the lower steps of the porch, "don't--don't
always be so proud--not about that, my dear--about everything else in the world, but not about
that." And so she went back into the world, and ceased to be a fairy godmother, and took up
her day's work.

John Barclay went to the City that night for the first time in two months, and Jeanette and
her Grandmother Barclay kept the big house alone. In ten days he came back; his face was still
hard, and the red rims around his eyes were dry, and his voice was sullen, as it had been for
many weeks. His soul was still wrestling with a spirit that would not give up the fight. That
night his daughter tried to sit with him, as she had tried many nights before. They sat looking
at the stars in silence as was their wont. Generally the father had risen and walked away,
but that night he turned upon her and said:--

"Jeanette, don't you like to be rich? I guess you are the richest girl in this country. Doesn't
that sound good to you?"

"No, father," she answered simply, and continued, "What can I do with all that money?"

"Marry some man who's got sense enough to double it, and double it," cried Barclay, harshly.
"Then there'll be no question but that you'll be the richest people in the world."

"And then what?" asked the girl.

"Then--then," he cried, "make the people in this world stand around--that's what."

"But, father," she said as she put her hand on his arm, "what if I don't want them to stand
around? Why should I have to bother about it?"

"Oh," he groaned, "your grandmother has been filling you full of nonsense." He did not speak
for a time, and at length she rose to go to bed. "Jeanette," he cried so suddenly that it startled
her, "are you still moping after Neal Ward? Do you love him? Do you want me to go and get him
for you?"

The girl stood by her father's chair a moment and then answered colourlessly: "No, father,
I don't want you to get him for me. I am not moping for him, as you call it."

Her desolate tone reached some chord in his very heart, for he caught her hand, and put it
to his cheek and said softly, "But she loves him--my poor little girl loves him?"

She tried to pull away her hand and replied, in the same dead voice: "Oh, well--that doesn't
matter much, I suppose. It's all over--so far as I am concerned." She turned to leave him,
and he cried:--

"My dear, my dear--why don't you go to him?"

She stopped a moment and looked at her father, and even in the starlight she could see his
hard mouth and his ruthless jaw. Then she cried out, "Oh, father, I can't--I can't--" After
a moment she turned and looked at him, and asked, "Would you? Would you?" and walked into the
house without waiting for an answer.

The father sat crumpled up in his chair, listening to the flames crackling in his heart. The
old negation was fighting for its own, and he was weary and broken and sick as with a palsy
of the soul. For everything in him trembled. There was no solid ground under him. He had visited
his material kingdom in the City, and had seen its strong fortresses and had tried all of its
locks and doors, and found them firm and fast. But they did not satisfy his soul; something
within him kept mocking them; refusing to be awed by their power, and the eternal "yes" rushed
through his reason like a great wind.

As he sat there, suddenly, as from some power outside, John Barclay felt a creaking of his
resisting timbers, and he quit the struggle. His heart was lead in his breast, and he walked
through the house to his pipe organ, that had stood silent in the hall for nearly a year. He
stood hesitatingly before it for a second, and then wearily lay him down to rest, on a couch
beside it, where, when he had played the last time, Jane lay and listened. He was tired past
all telling, but his soul was relaxed. He lay there for hours--until the tall clock above his
head chimed two. He could not sleep, but his consciousness was inert and his mind seemed limp
and empty, as one who has worked past his limit. The hymn that the clock chimed through the
quarter hours repeated itself over and over again without meaning in his brain. Something aroused
him; he started up suddenly, and lying half on his elbow and half on his side he stared about
him, and was conscious of a great light in the room: it was as though there was a fire near
by and he was alarmed, but he could not move. As he looked into space, terrified by the paralysis
that held him, he saw across the face of the organ, "Righteousness exalteth a Nation, but sin
is a reproach to any people."

Quick as a flash his mind went back to the time that same motto stared meaninglessly at him
from above the pulpit in the chapel at West Point, to which he had been appointed official
visitor at Commencement many years before. But that night as he gazed at the text its meaning
came rushing through his brain. It came so quickly that he could not will it back nor reason
it in. Righteousness, he knew, was not piety--not wearing your Sunday clothes to church and
praying and singing psalms; it was living honestly and kindly and charitably and dealing decently
with every one in every transaction; and sin--that, he knew--was the cheating, the deceiving,
and the malicious greed that had built up his company and scores of others like it all over
the land. That, he knew--that bribery and corruption and vicarious stealing which he had learned
to know as business--that was a reproach to any people, and as it came to him that he was a
miserable offender and that the other life, the decent life, was the right life, he was filled
with a joy that he could not express, and he let the light fail about him unheeded, and lay
for a time in a transport of happiness. He had found the secret.

The truth had come to him--to him first of all men, and it was his to tell. The joy of it--that
he should find out what righteousness was--that it was not crying "Lord, Lord" and playing
the hypocrite--thrilled him. And then the sense of his sinning came over him, but only with
joy too, because he felt he could show others how foolish they were. The clock stopped ticking;
the chimes were silent, and he lay unconscious of his body, with his spirit bathed in some
new essence that he did not understand and did not try to understand. Finally he rose and went
to his organ and turned on the motor, and put his hands to the keys. As he played the hymn
to the "Evening Star," John Barclay looked up and saw his mother standing upon the stair with
her fine old face bathed in tears. And then at last--

Tears? Tears for Mr. Barclay? All these months there have been no tears for him--none, except
miserable little corroding tears of rage and shame. But now there are tears for Mr. Barclay,
large, man's size, soul-healing tears--tears of repentance; not for the rich Mr. Barclay, the
proud Mr. Barclay, the powerful, man-hating, God-defying Mr. Barclay of Sycamore Ridge, but
for John Barclay, a contrite man, the humblest in all the kingdom.

And as John Barclay let his soul rise with the swelling music, he felt the solace of a great
peace in his heart; he turned his wet face upward and cried, "Oh, mother, mother, I feel like
a child!" Then Mary Barclay knew that her son had let Him in, knew in her own heart all the
joy there is in heaven over one sinner that repenteth.

CHAPTER XXIX

It is written in the Book that holds the wisdom of our race that one who is reborn into the
Kingdom of God, enters as a little child. It is there in black and white, yet few people get
the idea into their consciousnesses. They expect regeneration to produce an upright man. God
knows better than that. And we should know better too when it is written down for us. And so
you good people who expect to see John Barclay turn rightabout face on the habits of a lifetime
are to be disappointed. For a little child stumbles and falls and goes the wrong way many times
before it learns the way of life. There came days after that summer night of 1904, when John
Barclay fell--days when he would sneak into the stenographers' room in his office in the City
and tear up some letter he had dictated, when he would send a telegram annulling an order,
when he would find himself cheating and gouging his competitors or his business associates,--even
days when he had not the moral courage to retrace his steps although he knew he was wrong.
Shame put her brand on his heart, and his face showed to those who watched it closely--and
there were scores of fellow-gamblers at the game with him, whose profits came from watching
his face--his face showed forth uncertainty and daze. So men said, "The old man's off his feed,"
or others said, "Barclay's losing his nerve"; and still others said, "Can it be possible that
the old hypocrite is getting a sort of belated conscience?"

But slowly, inch by inch, the child within him grew; he gripped his soul with the iron hand
of will that had made a man of him, and when the child fell and ached with shame, Barclay's
will sustained the weakling. We are so hidden by our masks that this struggle in the man's
soul, though guessed at by some of those about him, was unknown to the hundreds who saw him
every day. But for him the universe had changed. And as a child, amazed, he looked upon the
new wonder of God's order about him and went tripping and stumbling and toppling over awkwardly
through it all as one learning some new equilibrium. There were times when his heart grew sick,
and he would have given it all up. There were hours when he did surrender; when he did a mean
thing and gloried in it, or a cowardly thing and apologized for it. But his will rose and turned
him back to his resolve. He found the big things easy, and the little things hard to do. So
he kept at the big things until they had pushed him so far toward his goal that the little
things were details which he repaired slowly and with anguish of humiliation in secret, and
unknown even to those who were nearest to him.

And all this struggle was behind the hard face, under the broad, high forehead, back of the
mean jaw, beneath the cover of the sharp brazen eyes. Even in Sycamore Ridge they did not suspect
the truth until Barclay had grown so strong in his new faith that he could look at his yesterdays
without shuddering.

The year of our Lord nineteen hundred and six was a slow year politically in Sycamore Ridge,
so in the parliament at McHurdie's shop discussion took somewhat wider range than was usual.
It may interest metaphysicians in the world at large to know that the McHurdie parliament that
August definitely decided that this is not a material world; that sensation is a delusion,
that the whole phantasmagoria of the outer and material world is a reaction of some sort upon
the individual consciousness. Up to this point the matter is settled, and metaphysicians may
as well make a record of the decision; for Watts McHurdie, Jacob Dolan, Philemon Ward, Martin
Culpepper, and sometimes Oscar Fernald, know just exactly as much about it as the ablest logician
in the world. It is, however, regrettable that after deciding that the external world is but
a divine reaction upon the individual consciousness, the parliament was unable to reach any
sort of a decision as to whose consciousness received the picture. Mr. Dolan maintained vigorously
that his consciousness was the one actually affected, and that the colonel and the general
and Watts were mere hallucinations of his. The general held that Jake and the others were accessory
phantasms of his own dream, and Watts and the colonel, being of more poetical temperament,
held that the whole outfit was a chimera in some larger consciousness, whose entity it is not
given us to know. As for Oscar, he claimed the parliament was crazy, and started to prove it,
when it was thought best to shift and modify the discussion; and, therefore, early in September,
when the upper currents of the national atmosphere were vocal with discordant allegations,
denials, accusations, and maledictions, in Watts McHurdie's shop the question before the house
was, "How many people are there in the world?" For ten days, in the desultory debate that had
droned through the summer, the general, true to his former contention, insisted that there
was only one person in the world. Mr. Dolan, with the Celtic elasticity of reason, was willing
to admit two.

"You and me and no more--all the rest is background for us," he proclaimed. "If the you of
the moment is the colonel--well and good; then the colonel and I for it; but if it is the general
and I--to the trees with your colonel and Watts, and the three billion others--you're merely
stage setting, and become third persons."

"But," asked McHurdie, "if I exist this minute with you, and then you focus your attention
on Mart there, the next minute, and he exists, what becomes of me when you turn your head from me?"

Dolan did not answer. He dipped into the Times and read awhile; and the colonel and the general
got out the checkerboard and plunged into a silent game. At length Dolan, after the fashion
of debaters in the parliament, came out of his newspaper and said:--

"That, Mr. McHurdie, is a problem ranging off the subject, into the theories of the essence
of time and space, and I refuse to answer it."

Me Hurdie kept on working, and the hands of the clock slipped around nearly an hour. Then the
bell tinkled and Neal Ward came in on his afternoon round for news to print in the next day's
issue of the Banner.

"Anything new?" he asked.

"Mrs. Dorman is putting new awnings on the rear windows of her store--did you get that?" asked
McHurdie.

The young man made a note of the fact.

"Yes," added Dolan, "and you may just say that Hon. Jacob Dolan, former sheriff of Garrison
County, and a member of 'C' Company, well known in this community, who has been custodian of
public buildings and grounds in and for Garrison County, state of Kansas, ss., is contemplating
resigning his position and removing to the National Soldiers' Home at Leavenworth for the future."

Young Ward smiled, but did not take the item down in his note-book.

"It isn't time yet," he said.

"Why not?" asked Dolan.

"Only two months and a half since I printed that the last time. It can't go oftener than four
times a year, and it's been in twice this year. Late in December will time it about right."

"What's the news with you, boy?" asked Dolan.

"Well," said the young man, pausing carefully as if to make a selection from a large and tempting
assortment, but really swinging his arms for a long jump into the heart of the matter in his
mind, "have you heard that John Barclay has given the town his pipe organ?"

"You don't say!" exclaimed McHurdie.

"Tired of it?" asked Dolan, as though twenty-five-thousand-dollar pipe organs were raining
in the town every few days.

"It'll not be that, Jake," said Watts. "John is no man to tire of things."

"No, it's not that, Mr. Dolan," answered Neal Ward. "He has sent word to the mayor and council
that he is going to have the organ installed in Barclay Hall this week at his own expense,
and he accompanied the letter with fifty thousand dollars in securities to hire a permanent
organist and a band-master for the band; and a band concert and an organ concert will alternate
in the hall every week during the year. I gather from reading his letter that Mr. Barclay believes
the organ will do more good in the hall than in his house."

The general and the colonel kept on at their game. Dolan whistled, and Watts nodded his head.
"That's what I would say he did it for," said McHurdie.

"Are the securities N.P.C. stock?" asked Dolan, tentatively.

"No," replied Neal; "I saw them; they are municipal bonds of one sort and another."

"Well, well--Johnnie at the mill certainly is popping open like a chestnut bur. Generally when
he has some scheme on to buy public sentiment he endows something with N.P.C. stock, so that
in case of a lawsuit against the company he'd have the people interested in protecting the
stock. This new tack is certainly queer doings. Certainly queer doings for the dusty miller!"
repeated Dolan.

"Well, it's like his buying the waterworks of Bemis last month, and that land at the new pumping
station, and giving the council money to build the new dam and power-house. He had no rebate
or take back in that--at least no one can see it," said the young man.

"Nellie says," put in Watts, "that she heard from Mrs. Fernald, who got it from her girl, who
got it from the girl who works in the Hub restaurant, who had it from Mrs. Carnine's girl--so
it come pretty straight--that Lige made John pay a pretty penny for the waterworks, and they
had a great row because John would give up the fight."

"Yes," replied Dolan, "it come to me from one of the nigger prisoners in the jail, who has
a friend who sweeps out Gabe's bank, that he heard John and Lige dickering, and that Lige held
John up for a hundred thousand cold dollars for his bargain."

"The Associated Press to-day," said young Ward, "has a story to the effect that there is a
great boom in certain railroad stocks owing to some secret operations of Mr. Barclay. They
don't know what he is doing, but things are pretty shaky. He refuses to make a statement."

"He's a queer canny little man," explained Watts. "You never know where he'll break out next."

"Well, he's up to some devilment," exclaimed Dolan; "you can depend on that. Why do you suppose
he's laying off the hands at the strip factory?"

The young man shook his head. "Give it up. I asked Mr. Mason and the best I could get out of
him was a parrot-like statement that 'owing to the oversupply of our commodity, we have decided
to close operations for the present. We have, therefore,' he said pompously, 'given each of
our employees unable to find immediate work here, a ticket for himself and family to any point
in the United States to which he may desire to go, and have agreed to pay the freight on his
household goods also.' That was every word I could get out of him--and you know Mr. Mason is
pretty talkative sometimes."

"Queer doings for the dusty miller," repeated Dolan.

The group by the bench heard the slap of the checkerboard on its shelf, and General Ward cut
into the conversation as one who had never been out of it. "The boy's got good blood in him;
it will come out some day--he wasn't made a Thatcher and a Barclay and a Winthrop for nothing.
Lizzie was over there the other night for tea with them, and she said she hadn't seen John
so much like himself for years."

Young Ward went about his afternoon's work and the parliament continued its debate on miscellaneous
public business. The general pulled the Times from Dolan's pocket and began turning it over.
He stopped and read for a few moments and exclaimed:--

"Boys--see here. Maybe this explains something we were talking about." He began reading a news
item sent out from Washington, D.C. The item stated that the Department of Commerce and Labour
had scored what every one in official circles believed was the most important victory ever
achieved by the government outside of a war. The item continued:--

    "Within the last ten days, the head of one of the largest so-called
    trusts in this country called at the department, and explained that
    his organization, which controls a great staple commodity, was going
    into voluntary liquidation. The organization in question has been
    the subject of governmental investigation for nearly two years, and
    investigators were constantly hampered and annoyed by attempts of
    politicians of the very highest caste, outside of the White House,
    trying to get inspectors removed or discredited, and all along the
    line of its investigations the government has felt a powerful secret
    influence shielding the trust. As an evidence of his good faith in
    the disorganization, the head of the trust, while he was here,
    promised to send to the White House, what he called his 'political
    burglar's kit,' consisting of a card index, labelling and ticketing
    with elaborate cross references and cabinet data, every man in the
    United States who is in politics far enough to get to his state
    legislature, or to be a nominee of his party for county attorney.
    This outfit, shipped in a score of great boxes, was dumped at the
    White House to-day, and it is said that a number of the cards
    indicating the reputation of certain so-called conservative senators
    and congressmen may be framed. There is a great hubbub in
    Washington, and the newspaper correspondents who called at the White
    House on their morning rounds were regaled by a confidential glimpse
    into the cards and the cabinets. It is likely that the whole outfit
    will be filed in the Department of Commerce and Labour, and will
    constitute the basis of what is called around the White House
    to-day, a 'National Rogues' Gallery.' The complete details of every
    senatorial election held in the country during twelve years last
    past, showing how to reach any Senator susceptible to any influence
    whatsoever, whether political, social, or religious, are among the
    trophies of the chase in the hands of the Mighty Hunter for Big Game
    to-day."

When General Ward had finished reading, he lifted up his glasses and said: "Well, that's it,
boys; John has come to his turn of the road. Here's the rest. It says: 'The corporation in
question is practically controlled by one man, the man who has placed the information above
mentioned in the hands of the government. It is a corporation owning no physical property whatever,
and is organized as a rebate hopper, if one may so style it. The head of the corporation stated
when he was here recently that he is preparing to buy in every share of the company's stock
at the price for which it was sold and then--' Jake, where is page 3 with the rest of this
article on it?" asked the general.

"Why, I threw that away coming down here," responded Dolan.

"Rather leaves us in the air--doesn't it?" suggested the colonel.

"Well, it's John. I know enough to know that--from Neal," said the general.

The afternoon sun was shining in the south window of the shop. Dolan started to go. In the
doorway McHurdie halted him.

"Jake," he cried, pointing a lean, smutty finger at Dolan, "Jake Dolan, if there are only two
people in the world, what becomes of me when you begin talking to Mart? If you knew, you would
not dodge. In philosophy no man can stand on his constitutional rights. Turn state's evidence,
Jake Dolan, and tell the truth--what becomes of me?"

"'Tis an improper question," replied Dolan, and then drawing himself up and pulling down the
front of his coat, he added, "'Tis not a matter that may be discussed among gentlemen," and
with that he disappeared.

The front door-bell tinkled, and the parliament prepared to adjourn. The colonel helped the
poet close his store and bring in the wooden horse from the sidewalk, and then Molly Brownwell
came with her phaeton and drove the two old men home. On the way up Main Street they overhauled
Neal Ward. Mrs. Brownwell turned in to the sidewalk and called, "Neal, can you run over to
the house a moment this evening?" And when he answered in the affirmative, she let the old
nag amble gently up the street.

"How pretty you are, Aunt Molly," exclaimed Neal, as the gray-haired woman who could still
wear a red ribbon came into the room where he sat waiting for her. The boy's compliment pleased
her, and she did not hesitate to say so. But after that she plunged into the subject that was
uppermost in her heart.

"Neal," she said, as she drew her chair in front of him so that she could see his face and
know the truth, no matter what his lips might say, "we're partners now, aren't we, or what
amounts to the same thing?" She smiled good-naturedly. "I own the overdraft at the bank and
you own the mortgage at the court-house. So I am going to ask you a plain question; and if
you say it isn't any of my business, I'll attempt to show you that it is. Neal," she asked,
looking earnestly into his face, "why do you write to Jeanette Barclay every day of your life
and not mail the letters?"

The youth flushed. "Why--Aunt Molly--how did you know?--I never told--"

"No, Neal, you never told me; but this afternoon while you we're out I was looking for Adrian's
check-book; I was sure we paid Dorman's bill last April, and that I took the check over myself.
I was going through the desk, and I got on your side, thinking I might have left the check-book
there by mistake, and I ran into the very midst of those letters, before I knew what I was
about. Now, Neal--why?"

The young man gazed at the woman seriously for a time and then parried her question with, "Why
do you care--what difference can it make to you, Aunt Molly?"

"Because," she answered quickly, "because I wish to see my partner happy. He will do better
work so--if you desire to put it on a cold-blooded basis. Oh, Nealie, Nealie--do you love her
that much--that you take your heart and your life to her without hope or without sign or answer
every day?"

He dropped his eyes, and turned his face away. "Not every day," he answered, "not every day--but
every night, Aunt Molly."

"Why don't you go to her, Neal, and tell her?" asked the woman. "Is it so hopeless as that?"

"Oh, there are many reasons--why I don't go to her," he replied. After a minute's silence he
went on: "In the first place she is a very rich girl, and that makes a difference--now. When
she was just a young girl of eighteen, or such a matter, and I only twenty or twenty-one, we
met so naturally, and it all came out so beautifully! But we are older now, Aunt Molly," he
said sadly, "and it's different."

"Yes," admitted Mrs. Brownwell, "it is different now--you are right about it."

"Yes," he continued, repeating a patter which he had said to himself a thousand times. "Yes,--and
then I can't say I'm sorry--for I'm not. I'd do it again. And I know how Mr. Barclay feels;
he didn't leave me in any doubt about that," smiled the boy, "when I left his office that morning
after telling him what I was going to do. So," he sighed and smiled in rather hopeless good
humour, "I can't see my way out. Can you?"

Molly Brownwell leaned back in her chair, and closed her eyes for a minute, and then shook
her head, and said, "No, Neal, not now; but there is a way--somehow--I am sure of that."

He laughed for want of any words to express his hopelessness, and the two--the youth in despair,
and the woman full of hope--sat in silence.

"Neal," she asked finally, "what do you put in those letters? Why do you write them at all?"

The young man with his eyes upon the floor began, "Well--they're just letters, Aunt Molly--just
letters--such as I used to write before--don't you know." His voice was dull and passionless,
and he went on: "I can't tell you more about them. They're just letters." He drew in a quick
long breath and exclaimed: "Oh, you know what they are--I want to talk to some one and I'm
going to. Oh, Aunt Molly," he cried, "I'm not heart-broken, and all that--I'm infinitely happy.
Because I still hold it--it doesn't die. Don't you see? And I know that always it will be with
me--whatever may come to her. I don't want to forget--and it is my only joy in the matter,
that I never will forget. I can be happy this way; I don't want to give any other woman a warmed-over
heart, for this would always be there--I know it--and so I am just going to keep it." He dropped
his voice again after a sigh, and went on: "There, that's all there is to it. Do you think
I'm a fool?" he asked, as the colour came into his face.

"No, Neal, I don't," said Molly Brownwell, as she stood beside him. "You are a brave, manly
fellow, Neal, and I wish I could help you. I don't see how now--but the way will come--sometime.
Now," she added, "tell me about the paper."

And then they went into business matters which do not concern us; for in this story business
conjures up the face of John Barclay--the tanned, hard face of John Barclay, crackled with
a hundred wrinkles about the eyes, and scarred with hard lines about the furtive crafty mouth;
and we do not wish to see that face now; it should be hidden while the new soul that is rising
in his body struggles with that tough, bronzed rind, gets a focus from the heart into those
glaring brass eyes, and teaches the lying lips to speak the truth, and having spoken it to
look it. And so while John Barclay in the City is daily slipping millions of his railroad bonds
into the market,--slipping them in quietly yet steadily withal, mixing them into the daily
commerce of the country, so gently that they are absorbed before any one knows they have left
his long grasping fingers,--while he is trading to his heart's content, let us forget him,
and look at this young man, that September night, after he left Molly Brownwell, sitting at
his desk in the office with the telephone at his elbow, with the smell of the ink from the
presses in his nostrils, with the silence of the deserted office becalming his soul, and with
his heart--a clean, strong, manly heart--full of the picture of a woman's face, and the vision
without a hope. In his brain are recorded a thousand pictures, and millions of little fibres
run all over this brain, conjuring up those pictures, and if there are blue eyes in the pictures,
and lips in the pictures, and the pressure of hands, and the touch of souls in the pictures,--they
are Neal Ward's pictures, --they are Mr. Higgin's pictures, and Mrs. Wiggin's pictures, and
Mr. Stiggin's pictures, my dears, and alack and alas, they are the pictures of Miss Jones and
Miss Lewis and Miss Thomas and Miss Smith, for that matter; and so, my dears, if we would be
happy we should be careful even if we can't be good, for it is all for eternity, and whatever
courts may say, and whatever churches may say, and whatever comes back with rings and letters
and trinkets,--there is no divorce, and the pictures always stay in the heart, and the sum
of the pictures is life.

So that September night Neal Ward went back over the old trail as lovers always will, and then
his pen began to write. Now in the nature of things the first three words are not for our eyes,
and to-night we must not see the first three lines nor the first thirty, nor the last three
words nor the last three lines nor the last thirty lines. But we may watch him write; we may
observe how longingly he looks at the telephone, as if tempted to go to it, and tell it what
is in his breast. There it sits, all shiny and metallic; and by conjuring it with a number
and a word, he could have her with him. Yet he does not take it up; because--the crazy loon
thinks in the soul of him, that what he writes, some way, in the great unknown system of receivers
and recorders and transmitters of thought that range through this universe, is pouring into
her heart, and so he writes and smiles, and smiles and writes--no bigger fool than half the
other lovers on the planet who, talking to their sweethearts, holding their hands and looking
squarely into their eyes, deceive themselves that what they say is going to the heart, and
not going in one ear and out of the other.

And now let us put on our seven-league boots and walk from September's green and brown, through
October's gold and crimson, into that season of the year 1906 when Nature is shifting her scenery,
making ready for the great spring show. It is bleak, but not cold; barren, but not ugly,--for
the stage setting of the hills and woods and streams, even without the coloured wings and flies
and the painted trees and grass, has its fine simplicity of form and grouping that are good
to look upon. Observe in the picture a small man sitting on a log in a wood, looking at the
stencil work of the brown and gray branches, as its shadows waver and shimmer upon the gray
earth. He is poking reflectively in the earth with his cane. His boat is tied to some tree
roots, and he doesn't breathe as regularly as a man should breathe who is merely thinking of
his next dinner or his last dollar. He delves into himself and almost forgets to breathe at
all, so deep is his abstraction. And so he sits for five minutes--ten minutes--half an hour--and
save that he edges into the sun as the shadow of the great walnut tree above catches him, an
hour passes and he does not move. Poking, poking, poking his stick into the mould, he has dug
up much litter in an hour, and he has seen his whole life thrown up before him. In those leaves
yonder is a battle--a bloody battle, and things are blistered into his boyish heart in that
battle that never heal over; that tuft of sod is a girl's face--a little girl's face that he
loved as a boy; there is his first lawsuit--that ragged pile of leaves by the twig at the log's
end; and the twig is his first ten thousand dollars. All of it lies there before him, his victories
and his defeats, his millions come, and his millions going--going?--yes, all but gone. Yonder
that deep gash in the sod at the left hides a woman's face--pale, wasted, dead on her pillow;
and that clean black streak on the ebony cane--that is a tear, and in the tear is a girl's
face and back of hers shimmers a boy's countenance. All of John Barclay's life and hopes and
dreams and visions are spread out before him on the ground. So he closes his eyes, and braces
his soul, and then, having risen, whistles as he limps lightly--for a man past fifty--down
to the boat. He rows with a clean manly stroke--even in an old flat-bottomed boat--through
the hazy sunset into the dusk.

"Jeanette," he said to his daughter that evening at dinner, "I wish you would go to the phone,
pretty soon, and tell Molly Culpepper that I want her to come down this evening. I am anxious
to see her. The colonel isn't at home, or I'd have him, mother," explained Mr Barclay.

And that is why Miss Barclay called "876, Please--yes, 8-7-6;" and then said: "Hello--hello,
is this 876? Yes--is Mrs. Brownwell in? Oh, all right." And then, "54, please; yes, 5-4. Is
this you, Aunt Molly? Father is in town--he came in this morning and has spent the afternoon
on the river, and he told me at dinner to ask you if you could run down this evening. Oh, any
time. I didn't know you worked nights at the office. Oh, is Mr. Ward out of town?--I didn't
know. All right, then--about eight o'clock--we'll look for you."

And that is why at the other end of the telephone, a pretty, gray-haired woman stood, and looked,
and looked, and looked at a plain walnut desk, as though it was enchanted, and then slipped
guiltily over to that black walnut desk, unlocked a drawer, and pulled out a whole apronful
of letters.

And so the reader may know what Molly Brownwell had in that package which she put in the buggy
seat beside her when she drove down to see the Barclays, that beautiful starry November night.
She put the package with her hat and wraps in Jeanette's room, and then came down to the living
room where John Barclay sat by the roaring fire in the wide fireplace, with a bundle beside
him also. His mother was there, and his daughter took a seat beside him.

"Molly," said Barclay, with a deep sigh, "I sent for you, first, because, of all the people
in the world, it is but just that you should be here, to witness what I am doing; and second,
because Jane would have had you, and I want you to be with Jeanette when I tell her some things
that she must know to-night--she and mother."

He was sitting in a deep easy chair, with one foot--not his lame foot--curled under him, a
wiry-looking little gray cat of a man who nervously drummed on the mahogany chair arm, or kept
running his hands over the carving, or folding and unfolding them, and twirled his thumbs incessantly
as he talked. He smiled as he began:--

"Well, girls, father got off the chair car at Sycamore Ridge this morning, after having had
the best sleep he has had in twenty years."

He paused for the effect of his declaration to sink in. Jeanette asked, "Where was the car?"

"What car?" teased the little gray cat.

"Why, our car?"

"My dear, we have no car," he smiled, with the cream of mystery on his lips. Then he licked
it off. "I sold the car three weeks ago, when I left the Ridge the last time." He dropped into
an eloquent silence, and then went on: "I rode in the chair car to save three dollars. I need
it in my business."

His mother's blue eyes were watching him closely. She exclaimed, "John, quit your foolishness.
What have you done?"

He laughed as he said: "Mother, I have returned to you poor but honest. My total assets at
this minute are seventy-five million dollars' worth of stock of the National Provisions Company,
tied up in this bundle on the floor here, and five thousand dollars in the Exchange National
Bank of Sycamore Ridge which I have held for thirty years. I sold my State Bank stock last
Monday to Gabe Carnine. I have thirty-four dollars and seventy-three cents in my pocketbook,
and that is all."

The women were puzzled, and their faces showed it. So the little gray cat made short work of
the mice.

"Well, now, to be brief and plain," said Barclay, pulling himself forward in his chair and
thrusting out an arm and hand, as if to grip the attention of his hearers, "I have always owned
or directly controlled over half the N.P.C. stock--representing a big pile of money. I am trying
to forget how much, and you don't care. But it was only part of my holdings--about half or
such a matter, I should say. The rest were railroad bonds on roads necessary to the company,
mortgages on mills and elevators whose stock was merged in the company, and all sorts of gilt-edged
stuff, bank stock and insurance company stock--all needed to make N.P.C. a dominant factor
in the commercial life of the country. You don't care about that, but it was all a sort of
commercial blackmail on certain fellows and interests to keep them from fighting N.P.C." Barclay
hitched himself forward to the edge of his chair, and still held out his grappling-hook of
a hand to hold them as he smiled and went on: "Well, I've been kind of swapping horses here
for six months or so--trading my gilt-edged bonds and stuff for cash and buying up N.P.C. stock.
I got a lot of it quietly--an awful lot." He grinned. "I guess that was square enough. I paid
the price for it--and a little better than the price--because I had to." He was silent a few
moments, looking at the fire. He meditated pleasantly: "There was some good in it--a lot of
good when you come to think of it--but a fearful lot of bad! Well--I've saved the good. I just
reorganized the whole concern from top to bottom--the whole blame rebate hopper. We had some
patents, and we had some contracts with mills, and we had some good ideas of organization.
And I've kept the good and chucked the bad. I put N.P.C. out of business and have issued stock
in the new company to our minority whose stock I couldn't buy and have squeezed the water out
of the whole concern. And then I took what balance I had left--every cent of it, went over
the books for thirty years, and made what restitution I could." He grinned as he added: "But
I found it was nearly whittlety whet. A lot of fellows had been doing me up, while I had been
doing others up. But I made what restitution I could and then I got out. I closed up the City
office, and moved the whole concern to St. Paul, and turned it over to the real owners--the
millers and elevator men--and I have organized an industry with a capitalization small enough
to make it possible for them to afford to be honest for thirty years--while our patents and
contracts last, anyway." He put an elbow in the hollow of his hand, and the knuckles on his
knee as he sat cross-legged, and drawled: "I wonder if it will work--" and repeated: "I wonder,
I wonder. There's big money in it; she's a dead monopoly as she stands, and they have the key
to the whole thing in the Commerce Department at Washington. They can keep her straight if
they will." He paused for a while and went on: "But I'm tired of it. The great hulk of a thing
has ground the soul out of me. So I ducked. Girls," he cried, as he turned toward them, "here's
the way it is; I never did any real good with money. I'm going to see what a man can do to
help his fellows with his bare hands. I want to help, not with money, but just to be some account
on earth without money. And so yesterday I cleaned up the whole deal forever."

He paused to let it sink in. Finally Jeanette asked, "And are we poor, father--poor?"

"Well, my dear," he expanded, "your grandmother Barclay has always owned this house. An Omaha
syndicate owns the mill. I own $5,000 in bank stock, and the boy who marries you for your money
right now is going to get badly left."

"You aren't fooling me, are you, John?" asked his mother as she rose from her chair.

"No, mother," answered the son, "I've got rid of every dirty dollar I have on earth. The bank
stock I bought with the money the Citizens' Committee subscribed to pay me for winning the
county-seat lawsuit. As near as I can figure it out, that was about the last clean money I
ever earned."

The mother walked toward her son, and leaned over and kissed him again and again as she sobbed:
"Oh, John, I am so happy to-night--so happy."

In a moment he asked, "Well, Jeanette, what do you think of it?"

"You know what I think, father--you know very well, don't you?"

He sighed and nodded his head. Then he reached for the package on the floor and began cutting
the strings. The bundle burst open and the stock of the National Provisions Company, issued
only in fifty-thousand-dollar and one-hundred-thousand-dollar shares, littered the floor.

"Now," cried Barclay, as he stood looking at the litter, "now, Molly, here's what I want you
to do: Burn it up--burn it up," he cried. "It has burned the joy out of your life, Molly--burn
it up! I have fought it all out to-day on the river--but I can't quite do that. Burn it up--for
God's sake, Molly, burn it up."

When the white ashes had risen up the chimney, he put on another log. "This is our last extravagance
for some time, girls--but we'll celebrate to-night," he cried. "You haven't a little elderberry
wine, have you, mother?" he asked. "Riley says that's the stuff for little boys with curvature
of the spine--and I'll tell you it put several kinks in mine to watch that burn."

And so they sat for an hour talking of old times while the fire burned. But Molly Brownwell's
mind was not in the performance that John Barclay had staged. She could see nothing but the
package lying on her cloak in the girl's room upstairs. So she rose to go early, and the circle
broke when she left it. She and Jeanette left John standing with his arms about his mother,
patting her back while she wept.

As she closed the door of Jeanette's room behind her, Molly Brownwell knew that she must speak.
"Jeanette," she said, "I don't know just how to say it, dear; but, I stole those--I mean what
is in that package--I took it and Neal doesn't know I have it. It's for you," she cried, as
she broke the string that tied it, and tore off the wrapping.

The girl stared at her and asked: "Why, Aunt Molly--what is it? I don't understand."

The woman in pulling her wrap from the chair, tumbled the letters to the floor. She slipped
into her cloak and kissed the bewildered girl, and said as she stood in the doorway: "There
they are, my dear--they are yours; do what you please with them."

She hurried down the stairs, and finding John sitting alone before the fire in the sitting
room, would have bidden him good night as she passed through the room, but he stopped her.

"There is one thing more, Molly," he said, as he motioned to a chair.

"Yes," she answered, "I wondered if you had forgotten it!"

He worried the fire, and renewed the blaze, before he spoke. "What about Neal--how does he feel?"

"John," replied the woman, turning upon him a radiant face, "it is the most beautiful thing
in the world--that boy's love for Jennie! Why, every night after his work is done, sitting
there in the office alone, Neal writes her a letter, that he never mails; just takes his heart
to her, John. I found a great stack of them in his desk the other day."

Barclay's face crinkled in a spasm of pain, and he exclaimed, "Poor little kids--poor, poor
children."

"John--" Molly Brown well hesitated, and then took courage and cried: "Won't you--won't you
for Ellen's sake? It is like that--like you and Ellen. And," she stammered, "oh, John, I do
want to see one such love affair end happily before I die."

Barclay's hard jaw trembled, and his eyes were wet as he rose and limped across the great room.
At the foot of the stairs he called up, "Don't bother with the phone, Jeanette, I'm going to
use it." He explained, "The branch in her room rings when we use this one," and then asked,
"Do you know where he is--at home or at the office?"

"If the ten o'clock train is in, he's at the office. If not, he's not in town."

But Barclay went to the hall, and when he returned he said, "Well, I got him; he'll be right out."

Molly was standing by the fire. "What are you going to say, John?" she asked.

"Oh, I don't know. There'll be enough for me to say, I suppose," he replied, as he looked at
the floor.

She gave him her hand, and they stood for a minute looking back into their lives. They walked
together toward the door, but at the threshold their eyes met and each saw tears, and they
parted without words.

Neal Ward found Barclay prodding the fire, and the gray little man, red-faced from his task,
limped toward the tall, handsome youth, and led him to a chair. Barclay stood for a time with
his back to the fire, and his head down, and in the silence he seemed to try to speak several
times before the right words came. Then he exclaimed:

"Neal, I was wrong--dead wrong--and I've been too proud and mean all this time--to say so."

Neal stared open-eyed at Barclay and moistened his lips before language came to him. Finally
he said: "Well, Mr. Barclay--that's all right. I never blamed you. You needn't have bothered
about--that is, to tell me."

Barclay gazed at the young man abstractedly for a minute that seemed interminable, and then
broke out, "Damn it, Neal, I can't propose to you--but that's about what I've got you out here
to-night for."

He laughed nervously, but the young face showed his obtuseness, and John Barclay having broken
the ice in his own heart put his hands in his pockets and threw back his head and roared, and
then cried merrily: "All we need now is a chorus in fluffy skirts and an orchestra with me
coming down in front singing, 'Will you be my son-in-law?' for it to be real comic opera."

The young man's heart gave such a bound of joy that it flashed in his face, and the father,
seeing it, was thrilled with happiness. So he limped over to Neal's chair and stood beaming
down upon the embarrassed young fellow.

"But, Mr. Barclay--" the boy found voice, "I don't know--the money--it bothers me."

And John Barclay again threw his head back and roared, and then they talked it all out. He
told Neal the story of his year's work. It was midnight when they heard the telephone ringing,
and Barclay, curled up like an old gray cat in his chair before the fire, said for old times'
sake, "Neal, go see who is ringing up at this unholy hour."

And while Neal Ward steps to the telephone, let us go upstairs on one last journey with our
astral bodies and discover what Jeanette is doing. After Molly's departure, Jeanette stooped
to pick up what Molly had left. She saw her own name, "Jeanette Barclay," and her address written
on an envelope. She picked it up. It was dated: "Written December 28," and she saw that the
package was filled with letters in envelopes similarly addressed in Neal Ward's handwriting.
She dropped the letter on her dressing-table and began to undo her hair. In a few minutes she
stopped and picked up another, and laid it down unopened. But in half an hour she was sitting
on the floor reading the letters through her tears. The flood of joy that came over her drowned
her pride. For an hour she sat reading the letters, and they brought her so near to her lover
that it seemed that she must reach out and touch him. She was drawn by an irresistible impulse
to her telephone that sat on her desk. It seemed crazy to expect to reach Neal Ward at midnight,
but as she rose from the floor with the letters slipping from her lap and with the impulse
like a cord drawing her, she saw, or thought she saw, standing by the desk, a part of the fluttering
shadows, a girl--a quaint, old-fashioned girl in her teens, with--but then she remembered the
dream girl her lover had described in the letter she had just been reading, and she understood
the source of her delusion. And yet there the vision moved by the telephone, smiling and beckoning;
then it faded, and there came rushing back to her memory a host of recollections of her childhood,
and of some one she could not place, and then a memory of danger,--and then it was all gone
and there stood the desk and the telephone and the room as it was.

She shuddered slightly, and then remembered that she had just been through two great nervous
experiences--the story of her father's changed life, and the return of her lover. And she was
a level-headed, strong-nerved girl. So the joy of love in her heart was not dampened, and the
cord drawing her to the desk in the window did not loosen, and she did not resist. With a gulp
of nervous fear she rang the telephone bell and called, "54, please!" She heard a buzzing,
and then a faint stir in the receiver, and then she got the answer. She sat a-tremble, afraid
to reply. The call was repeated in her ear, and then she said so faintly that she could not
believe it would be heard, "Oh, Neal--Neal--I have come back."

The young man standing in the dimly lighted hall was startled. He cried, "Is it really you,
Jeanette--is it you?"

And then stronger than before the voice said, "Yes, Neal, it is I--I have come back!"

"Oh, Jeanette--Jeanette," he cried.

But she stopped him with, "We must not talk any more--now, don't you know--but I had to tell
you that I had come back, Neal." And then she said, "Good night." So there they stood, the
only two people in the universe, reunited lovers, each with the voice of the other sounding
in his ears. For Mr. Dolan was right. There are only two people in the world, and for these
two lovers earth and the stars and the systems of suns that make up this universe were only
background for the play of their happiness.

As Neal Ward came back to John Barclay from the telephone, the young man's face was burning
with joy.

"Who was it?" asked Barclay.

The youth smiled bashfully as he said, "Well, it was Jeanette--she was calling up another number
and I cut in."

"What did she say?" asked her father.

"Oh, nothing--in particular," replied Neal.

Barclay looked up quickly, caught the young man's abashed smile, and asked, "Does she know
you're here?"

"No, she thinks I'm at the office."

Barclay rose from his chair, and limped across the room, calling back as he mounted the stair,
"Wait a minute."

It was more than a minute that Neal Ward stood by the fire waiting.

And now, gentle people, observe the leader of the orchestra fumbling with his music. There
is a faint stir among the musicians under the footlights. And you, too, are getting restless;
you are feeling for your hat instinctively, and you for your hat-pins, and you for your rubbers,
while Neal Ward stands there waiting, and the great clock ticks in the long silence. There
is a rustle on the stairs, at the right, and do you see that foot peeping down, that skirt,
that slender girlish figure coming down, that young face tear-stained, happy, laughing and
sobbing, with the arms outstretched as she nears the last turn of the stairs? And the lover--he
has started toward her. The orchestra leader is standing up. And the youth, with God's holiest
glory in his face, has almost reached her. And there for an instant stand Neal and Jeanette
mingling tears in their kisses, for the curtain, the miserable, unemotional, awkward curtain--it
has stuck and so they must stand apart, hand in hand, devouring each other's faces a moment,
and then as the curtain falls we see four feet close together again, and then--and then the
world comes in upon us, and we smile and sigh and sigh and smile, for the journey of those
four feet is ended, the story is done.

CHAPTER XXX

BEING SOMEWHAT IN THE NATURE OF AN EPILOGUE

And now that the performance is finished and the curtain has been rung down, we desire to thank
you, one and all, for your kind attention, and to express the hope that in this highly moral
show you may have found some pleasure as well as profit. But though the play is ended, and
you are already reaching for your hats and coats, the lights are still dim; and as you see
a great white square of light appear against the curtain, you know that the entertainment is
to conclude with a brief exhibition of the wonders of that great modern invention, the cinematograph
of Time.

The first flickering shadows show you the interior of Watts McHurdie's shop, and as your eyes
take in the dancing shapes, you discern the parliament in session. The colonel, with his thumb
in the book, pokes the fire in the stove, and sits down again to drink his joy unalloyed. Watts
is working on a saddle, but his arms and his hands are not what they were in the old days when
his saddlery won first prize year after year at the Kansas City Fair. So he puffs and fusses
and sighs his way through his morning's work. Sometimes the colonel reads aloud a line from
a verse, or a phrase from the Biography--more frequently from the Biography--and exclaims,
"Genius, Watts, genius, genius!" But Watts McHurdie makes no reply. As his old eyes--quicker
than his old fingers--see the sad work they are making, his heart sinks within him.

"Listen, Watts," cries the colonel. "How do you like this, you old skeezicks?" and the colonel
reads a stanza full of "lips" and "slips," "eyes" and "tries," "desires" and "fires," and "darts"
and "hearts."

The little white-haired old man leans forward eagerly to catch it all. But his shoulders slump,
and he draws a long, tired breath when the colonel has finished.

"Man--man," he cries, "what a saddle I could make when I wrote that!" And he turns wearily
to his task again.

Oscar Fernald paces in busily, and in half an hour Lycurgus Mason, who has been thrown out
of the current of life, drifts into his place in the back-water, and the parliament is ready
for business. They see Gabriel Carnine totter by, chasing after pennies to add to his little
pile. The bell tinkles, and the postman brings a letter. McHurdie opens it and says, as he
looks at the heading:

"It's from old Jake. It is to all of us" he adds as he looks at the top of the sheet of letter
paper. He takes off his apron and ceremoniously puts on his coat; then seats himself, and unfolding
the sheet, begins at the very top to read:--

                                       "National Soldiers' Home,
                                            Leavenworth, Kansas,
                                               March 11, 1909.

    "TO THE MEMBERS OF MCHURDIE'S PARLIAMENT,

    "Gents and Comrades: I take my pen in hand this bright spring
    morning to tell you that I arrived here safe, this side up with
    care, glass, be careful, Saturday morning, and I am willing to
    compromise my chances for heaven, which Father Van Saudt being a
    Dutchman always regarded as slim, for a couple of geological ages of
    this. I hope you are the same, but you are not. Given a few hundred
    white nighties for us to wear by day, and a dozen or two dagoes
    playing on harps, and this would be my idea of Heaven. The meals
    that we do have--tell Oscar that when I realize what eating is, what
    roast beef can be, cut thin and rare and dripping with gravy--it
    makes me wonder if the days when I boarded at the Thayer House might
    not be counted as part of the time I must do in the fireworks. And
    the porcelean bath tubs, and the white clean beds, and the music of
    the band, and the free tobacco--here I raise my Ebenezer, as the
    Colonel sings down in his heretic church; here I put my standard
    down.

    "Well, Watts, I hear the news about Nelly. We've known it was coming
    for a year, but that doesn't make it easier. Why don't you come up
    here, Comrade--we are all lonesome up here, and it doesn't make the
    difference. Well, John Barclay, the reformed pirate, President of
    the Exchange National Bank, and general all-round municipal
    reformer, was over in Leavenworth last week attending the Bankers'
    Convention, or something, and he came to see me, as though he hadn't
    bid me good-by at the train two days before. But he said things were
    going on at the Ridge about the same, and being away from home, he
    grew confidential, and he told me Lige Bemis had lost all his money
    bucking the board of trade--did you know that? If not, it isn't so,
    and I never told you. John showed me the picture of little John B.
    Ward--as likely a looking yearling as I ever saw. Well, I must
    close. Remember me to all inquiring friends and tell them Comrade
    Dolan is lying down by the still waters."

And now the screen is darkened for a moment to mark the passage of months before we are given
another peep into the parliament. It is May--a May morning that every one of these old men
will remember to his death. The spring rise of the Sycamore has flooded the lowlands. The odour
of spring is in the air. In the parliament are lilacs in a sprinkling pot--a great armful of
lilacs, sent by Molly Culpepper. The members who are present are talking of the way John Barclay
has sloughed off his years, and Watts is saying:--

"Boys will be boys; I knew him forty years ago when he was at least a hundred years older,
and twice as wise."

"He hasn't missed a ball game--either foot-ball or baseball--for for nearly two years now,"
ventures Fernald. "And yell! Say, it's something terrible."

McHurdie turns on the group with his glasses on his forehead. "Don't you know what's a-happening
to John?" he asks. "Well, I know. Whoever wrote the Bible was a pretty smart man. I've found
that out in seventy-five years--especially the Proverbs, and I've been thinking some of the
Testament." He smiles. "There's something in it. It says, 'Except ye come as a little child,
ye shall in no wise enter the Kingdom.' That's it--that's it. I don't claim to know rightly
what the kingdom may be, but John's entering it. And I'll say this: John's been a long time
getting in, but now that he's there, he's having the de'el of a fine time."

And on the very words General Ward comes bursting into the room, forgetful of his years, with
tragedy in his face. The bustle and clatter of that morning in the town have passed over the
men in the parliament. They have not heard the shouts of voices in the street, nor the sound
of footsteps running towards the river. But even their dim eyes see the horror in the general's
face as he gasps for breath.

"Boys, boys," he exclaims. "My God, boys, haven't you heard--haven't you heard?" And as their
old lips are slow to answer, he cries out, "John's dead--John Barclay's drowned--drowned--gave
his life trying to save Trixie Lee out there on a tree caught in the dam."

The news is so sudden, so stunning, that the old men sit there for a moment, staring wide-eyed
at the general. McHurdie is the first to find his voice.

"How did it happen?" he says.

"I don't know--no one seems to know exactly," replies the general. And then in broken phrases
he gives them the confused report that he has gathered: how some one had found Trixie Lee clinging
to a tree caught in the current of the swollen river just above the dam, and calling for help,
frantic with fear; how a crowd gathered, as crowds gather, and the outcry brought John Barclay
running from his house near by; how he arrived to find men discussing ways of reaching the
woman in the swift current, while her grip was loosening and her cries were becoming fainter.
Then the old spirit in John Barclay, that had saved the county-seat for Sycamore Ridge, came
out for the last time. His skiff was tied to a tree on the bank close at hand. A boy was sent
running to the nearest house for a clothes-line. When he returned, John was in the skiff, with
the oars in hand. He passed an end of the line to the men, and without a word in answer to
their protests, began to pull out against the current. It was too strong for him, and was sweeping
him past the woman, when he stood up, measured the distance with his eye, and threw the line
so it fell squarely across her shoulders. Some one said that as the skiff shot over the dam,
John, still standing up, had a smile on his face, and that he waved his hand to the crowd with
a touch of his old bravado.

The general paused before going on with the story.

"They sent me to tell his mother--the woman who had borne him, suckled him, reared him, lost
him, and found him again."

"And what did she say?" asked Watts, as the general hesitated.

The general moistened his lips and went on. "She stood staring at me for one dreadful minute,
and then she asked, 'How did he die, Philemon?' 'He died saving a woman from drowning,' I told
her. 'Did he save her?'--that was what she asked, still standing stiff and motionless. 'Yes,'
I said. 'She was only Trixie Lee--a bad woman--a bad woman, Mrs. Barclay.' And Mary Barclay
lifted her long, gaunt arms halfway above her head and cried: 'Mine eyes have seen the glory
of the coming of the Lord. I must have an hour with God now, Philemon,' she said over her shoulder
as she left me; 'don't let them bother me.' Then she walked unbent and unshaken up the stairs."

So John Barclay, who tried for four years and more to live by his faith, was given the opportunity
to die for it, and went to his duty with a glad heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

We will give our cinematograph one more whirl. A day, a week, a month, have gone, and we may
glimpse the parliament for the last time. Watts McHurdie is reading aloud, slowly and rather
painfully, a news item from the Banner. Two vacant chairs are formally backed to the wall,
and in a third sits General Ward. At the end of a column-long article Watts drones out:--

"And there was considerable adverse comment in the city over the fact that the deceased was
sent here for burial from the National Soldiers' Home at Leavenworth, in a shabby, faded blue
army uniform of most ancient vintage. Surely this great government can afford better shrouds
than that for its soldier dead."

Watts lays down the paper and wipes his spectacles, and finally he says:--

"And Neal wrote that?"

"And Neal wrote that," replies the general.

"And was born and bred in the Ridge," complains McHurdie.

"Born and bred in the Ridge," responds the general.

Watts puts on his glasses and fumbles for some piece of his work on the bench. Then he shakes
his head sadly and says, after drawing a deep breath, "Well, it's a new generation, General,
a new generation."

There follows a silence, during which Watts works on mending some bit of harness, and the general
reads the evening paper. The late afternoon sun is slanting into the shop. At length the general
speaks.

"Yes," he says, "but it's a fine town after all. It was worth doing. I wake up early these
days, and often of a fine spring morning I go out to call on the people on the Hill."

McHurdie nods his comprehension.

"Yes," continues the general, "and I tell them all about the new improvements. There are more
of us out on the Hill now than in town, Watts; I spent some time with David Frye and Henry
Schnitzler and Jim Lord Lee this morning, and called on General Hendricks for a little while."

"Did you find him sociable?" asks the poet, grinning up from his bench.

"Oh, so-so--about as usual," answers the general.

"He was always a proud one," comments Watts. "Will Henry Schnitzler be stiff-necked about his
monument there by the gate?" asks the little Scotchman.

"Inordinately, Watts, inordinately! The pride of that man is something terrible."

The two old men chuckle at the foolery of the moment. The general folds away the evening paper
and rises to go.

"Watts," he says, "I have lived seventy-eight years to find out just one thing."

"And what will that be?" asks the harness maker.

"This," beams the old man, as he puts his spectacle case in his black silk coat; "that the
more we give in this world, the more we take from it; and the more we keep for ourselves, the
less we take." And smiling at his paradox, he goes through the shop into the sunset.

The air is vocal with the home-bound traffic of the day. Cars are crowded; delivery wagons
rattle home; buggies clatter by on the pavements; one hears the whisper of a thousand feet
treading the hot, crowded street. But Watts works on. So let us go in to bid him a formal good-by.
The tinkling door-bell will bring out a bent little old man, with grimy fingers, who will put
up his glasses to peer at our faces, and who will pause a moment to try to recollect us. He
will talk about John Barclay.

"Yes, yes, I knew him well," says McHurdie; "there by the door hangs a whip he made as a boy.
We used to play on that accordion in the case there. Oh, yes, yes, he was well thought of;
we are a neighbourly people--maybe too much so. Yes, yes, he died a brave death, and the papers
seemed to think his act of sacrifice showed the world a real man--and he was that,--he was
surely that, was John; yes, he was a real man. You ask about his funeral? It was a fine one--a
grand funeral--every hack in town out--every high-stepping horse out; and the flowers--from
all over the world they came--the flowers were most beautiful. But there are funerals and funerals.
There was Martin Culpepper's--not so many hacks, not so many high-stepping horses, but the
old buggies, and the farm wagons, and the little nigger carts--and man, man alive, the tears,
the tears!"

"Intensely absorbing as a story, it is also a crisp, vigorous document of startling significance.
More than any other writer to-day he is giving us the American novel."--New York Globe.

Together

"The thing is straight from life.... The spirit of the book is in the end bracing and quickening."--Chicago
Evening Post.

