     "Ah, there's many a beam from the fountain of day
     That, to reach us unclouded, must pass, on its way,
     Through the soul of a woman, and hers is wide ope
     To the influence of Heaven as the blue eyes of Hope;
     Yes, a great heart is hers, one that dares to go in
     To the prison, the slave-hut, the alleys of sin,
     And to bring into each, or to find there, some line
     Of the never completely out-trampled divine;
     If her heart at high floods swamps her brain now and then,
     'T is but richer for that when the tide ebbs again,
     As, after old Nile has subsided, his plain
     Overflows with a second broad deluge of grain;
     What a wealth would it bring to the narrow and sour,
     Could they be as a Child but for one little hour!"

After leaving New York, her husband and herself took up their residence in the rural town of
Wayland, Mass.  Their house, plain and unpretentious, had a wide and pleasant outlook; a flower
garden, carefully tended by her own hands, in front, and on the side a fruit orchard and vegetable
garden, under the special care of her husband.  The house was always neat, with some appearance
of unostentatious decoration, evincing at once the artistic taste of the hostess and the conscientious
economy which forbade its indulgence to any great extent.  Her home was somewhat apart from
the lines of rapid travel, and her hospitality was in a great measure confined to old and intimate
friends, while her visits to the city were brief and infrequent.  But what I remember with
the most tender gratitude is his uniform patience and forbearance with my faults.  .  .  .
He never would see anything but the bright side of my character.  He always insisted upon thinking
that whatever I said was the wisest and the wittiest, and that whatever I did was the best.
The simplest little jeu d'esprit of mine seemed to him wonderfully witty. Once, when he said,
'I wish for your sake, dear, I were as rich as Croesus,' I answered, 'You are Croesus, for
you are king of Lydia.' How often he used to quote that!

"His mind was unclouded to the last.  He had a passion for philology, and only eight hours
before he passed away he was searching out the derivation of a word."

Her well-stored mind and fine conversational gifts made her company always desirable.  No one
who listened to her can forget the earnest eloquence with which she used to dwell upon the
evidences, from history, tradition, and experience, of the superhuman and supernatural; or
with what eager interest she detected in the mysteries of the old religions of the world the
germs of a purer faith and a holier hope.  She loved to listen, as in St. Pierre's symposium
of The Coffee-House of Surat, to the confessions of faith of all sects and schools of philosophy,
Christian and pagan, and gather from them the consoling truth that our Father has nowhere left
his children without some witness of Himself. She loved the old mystics, and lingered with
curious interest and sympathy over the writings of Bohme, Swedenborg, Molinos, and Woolman.
Yet this marked speculative tendency seemed not in the slightest degree to affect her practical
activities.  Her mysticism and realism ran in close parallel lines without interfering with
each other.

With strong rationalistic tendencies from education and conviction, she found herself in spiritual
accord with the pious introversion of Thomas a Kempis and Madame Guion.  She was fond of Christmas
Eve stories, of warnings, signs, and spiritual intimations, her half belief in which sometimes
seemed like credulity to her auditors.  James Russell Lowell, in his tender tribute to her,
playfully alludes to this characteristic:--

          "She has such a musical taste that she 'll go
          Any distance to hear one who draws a long bow.
          She will swallow a wonder by mere might and main."

In 1859 the descent of John Brown upon Harper's Ferry, and his capture, trial, and death, startled
the nation.  When the news reached her that the misguided but noble old man lay desperately
wounded in prison, alone and unfriended, she wrote him a letter, under cover of one to Governor
Wise, asking permission to go and nurse and care for him.  The expected arrival of Captain
Brown's wife made her generous offer unnecessary.  The prisoner wrote her, thanking her, and
asking her to help his family, a request with which she faithfully complied.  With his letter
came one from Governor Wise, in courteous reproval of her sympathy for John Brown. To this
she responded in an able and effective manner.  Her reply found its way from Virginia to the
New York Tribune, and soon after Mrs. Mason, of King George's County, wife of Senator Mason,
the author of the infamous Fugitive Slave Law, wrote her a vehement letter, commencing with
threats of future damnation, and ending with assuring her that "no Southerner, after reading
her letter to Governor Wise, ought to read a line of her composition, or touch a magazine which
bore her name in its list of contributors."  To this she wrote a calm, dignified reply, declining
to dwell on the fierce invectives of her assailant, and wishing her well here and hereafter.
She would not debate the specific merits or demerits of a man whose body was in charge of the
courts, and whose reputation was sure to be in charge of posterity.  "Men," she continues,
"are of small consequence in comparison with principles, and the principle for which John Brown
died is the question at issue between us." These letters were soon published in pamphlet form,
and had the immense circulation of 300,000 copies.

In 1867 she published A Romance of the Republic, a story of the days of slavery; powerful in
its delineation of some of the saddest as well as the most dramatic conditions of master and
slave in the Southern States. Her husband, who had been long an invalid, died in 1874.  After
his death her home, in winter especially, became a lonely one, and in 1877 she began to spend
the cold months in Boston.

Her last publication was in 1878, when her Aspirations of the World, a book of selections,
on moral and religious subjects, from the literature of all nations and times, was given to
the public.  The introduction, occupying fifty pages, shows, at threescore and ten, her mental
vigor unabated, and is remarkable for its wise, philosophic tone and felicity of diction. 
It has the broad liberality of her more elaborate work on the same subject, and in the mellow
light of life's sunset her words seem touched with a tender pathos and beauty.  "All we poor
mortals," she says, "are groping our way through paths that are dim with shadows; and we are
all striving, with steps more or less stumbling, to follow some guiding star.  As we travel
on, beloved companions of our pilgrimage vanish from our sight, we know not whither; and our
bereaved hearts utter cries of supplication for more light.  We know not where Hermes Trismegistus
lived, or who he was; but his voice sounds plaintively human, coming up from the depths of
the ages, calling out, 'Thou art God! and thy man crieth these things unto Thee!'  Thus closely
allied in our sorrows and limitations, in our aspirations and hopes, surely we ought not to
be separated in our sympathies.  However various the names by which we call the Heavenly Father,
if they are set to music by brotherly love, they can all be sung together."

Her interest in the welfare of the emancipated class at the South and of the ill-fated Indians
of the West remained unabated, and she watched with great satisfaction the experiment of the
education of both classes in General Armstrong's institution at Hampton, Va.  She omitted no
opportunity of aiding the greatest social reform of the age, which aims to make the civil and
political rights of women equal to those of men. Her sympathies, to the last, went out instinctively
to the wronged and weak.  She used to excuse her vehemence in this respect by laughingly quoting
lines from a poem entitled The Under Dog in the Fight:--

          "I know that the world, the great big world,
          Will never a moment stop
          To see which dog may be in the wrong,
          But will shout for the dog on top.

          "But for me, I never shall pause to ask
          Which dog may be in the right;
          For my heart will beat, while it beats at all,
          For the under dog in the fight."

I am indebted to a gentleman who was at one time a resident of Wayland, and who enjoyed her
confidence and warm friendship, for the following impressions of her life in that place:--

"On one of the last beautiful Indian summer afternoons, closing the past year, I drove through
Wayland, and was anew impressed with the charm of our friend's simple existence there.  The
tender beauty of the fading year seemed a reflection of her own gracious spirit; the lovely
autumn of her life, whose golden atmosphere the frosts of sorrow and advancing age had only
clarified and brightened.

"My earliest recollection of Mrs. Child in Wayland is of a gentle face leaning from the old
stage window, smiling kindly down on the childish figures beneath her; and from that moment
her gracious motherly presence has been closely associated with the charm of rural beauty in
that village, which until very lately has been quite apart from the line of travel, and unspoiled
by the rush and worry of our modern steam-car mode of living.

"Mrs. Child's life in the place made, indeed, an atmosphere of its own, a benison of peace
and good-will, which was a noticeable feature to all who were acquainted with the social feeling
of the little community, refined, as it was too, by the elevating influence of its distinguished
pastor, Dr. Sears.  Many are the acts of loving kindness and maternal care which could be chronicled
of her residence there, were we permitted to do so; and numberless are the lives that have
gathered their onward impulse from her helping hand.  But it was all a confidence which she
hardly betrayed to her inmost self, and I will not recall instances which might be her grandest
eulogy.  Her monument is builded in the hearts which knew her benefactions, and it will abide
with 'the power that makes for righteousness.'

"One of the pleasantest elements of her life in Wayland was the high regard she won from the
people of the village, who, proud of her literary attainment, valued yet more the noble womanhood
of the friend who dwelt so modestly among them.  The grandeur of her exalted personal character
had, in part, eclipsed for them the qualities which made her fame with the world outside.

"The little house on the quiet by-road overlooked broad green meadows. The pond behind it,
where bloom the lilies whose spotless purity may well symbolize her gentle spirit, is a sacred
pool to her townsfolk.  But perhaps the most fitting similitude of her life in Wayland was
the quiet flow of the river, whose gentle curves make green her meadows, but whose powerful
energy, joining the floods from distant mountains, moves, with resistless might, the busy shuttles
of a hundred mills.  She was too truthful to affect to welcome unwarrantable invaders of her
peace, but no weary traveller on life's hard ways ever applied to her in vain.  The little
garden plot before her door was a sacred enclosure, not to be rudely intruded upon; but the
flowers she tended with maternal care were no selfish possession, for her own enjoyment only,
and many are the lives their sweetness has gladdened forever.  So she lived among a singularly
peaceful and intelligent community as one of themselves, industrious, wise, and happy; with
a frugality whose motive of wider benevolence was in itself a homily and a benediction."

In my last interview with her, our conversation, as had often happened before, turned upon
the great theme of the future life.  She spoke, as I remember, calmly and not uncheerfully,
but with the intense earnestness and reverent curiosity of one who felt already the shadow
of the unseen world resting upon her.

Her death was sudden and quite unexpected.  For some months she had been troubled with a rheumatic
affection, but it was by no means regarded as serious.  A friend, who visited her a few days
before her departure, found her in a comfortable condition, apart from lameness.  She talked
of the coming election with much interest, and of her plans for the winter. On the morning
of her death (October 20, 1880) she spoke of feeling remarkably well.  Before leaving her chamber
she complained of severe pain in the region of the heart.  Help was called by her companion,
but only reached her to witness her quiet passing away.

The funeral was, as befitted one like her, plain and simple.  Many of her old friends were
present, and Wendell Phillips paid an affecting and eloquent tribute to his old friend and
anti-slavery coadjutor.  He referred to the time when she accepted, with serene self-sacrifice,
the obloquy which her Appeal had brought upon her, and noted, as one of the many ways in which
popular hatred was manifested, the withdrawal from her of the privileges of the Boston Athenaeum.
Her pallbearers were elderly, plain farmers in the neighborhood; and, led by the old white-haired
undertaker, the procession wound its way to the not distant burial- ground, over the red and
gold of fallen leaves, and tinder the half- clouded October sky.  A lover of all beautiful
things, she was, as her intimate friends knew, always delighted by the sight of rainbows, and
used to so arrange prismatic glasses as to throw the colors on the walls of her room.  Just
after her body was consigned to the earth, a magnificent rainbow spanned with its are of glory
the eastern sky.

     The incident at her burial is alluded to in a sonnet written by
     William P.  Andrews:--

          "Freedom! she knew thy summons, and obeyed
          That clarion voice as yet scarce heard of men;
          Gladly she joined thy red-cross service when
          Honor and wealth must at thy feet be laid
          Onward with faith undaunted, undismayed
          By threat or scorn, she toiled with hand and brain
          To make thy cause triumphant, till the chain
          Lay broken, and for her the freedmen prayed.
          Nor yet she faltered; in her tender care
          She took us all; and wheresoe'er she went,
          Blessings, and Faith, and Beauty followed there,
          E'en to the end, where she lay down content;
          And with the gold light of a life more fair,
          Twin bows of promise o'er her grave were blest."

