It has been thoroughly proved in our newer pedagogical practice that the child in the first
school year is much interested in descriptions of the Indian and the Eskimo.  Whenever descriptions
of the Indian and the Eskimo have been given him, they have not only fulfilled their purpose
in furnishing material for reading and the interrelation of several activities of expression,
but they have revealed to him the fact that there are other people in the world, who differ
very much from those he has seen.

His interest in different peoples at this time is in their physical appearance, their dress,
their ways of living, their customs, their manners, and it arises chiefly from the contrast
which descriptions of these afford to familiar customs, conditions, and physical characteristics.

The child is not interested, at that stage of his intellectual development which falls in the
first or the second school year, in the situation of countries.  It does not matter to him
exactly where, geographically, the people about whom he reads live.  He is satisfied if some
general statement is made to the effect that they live far away to the north, where the cold
countries are, or in the south, where it is warm and sometimes hot, or on the other side of
the world.

His desire, at this period, for new impressions and ideas gained from descriptions and accompanying
pictures is as keen as his desire for sense impressions gained from the world of nature and
activity about him.  This wider range of information and ideas, it is believed, he may in some
measure gain from this little book.

DRESDEN, July 15, 1899.

PEOPLE OF OTHER LANDS.

CHINA.

On the other side of this great round world is a country called China. When it is dark here,
and we are going to sleep, the sun is just waking up the children in China and telling them
it is morning.  When we get up in the morning they are just bidding the sun good night.  When
it is light here it is dark there.  So they have day when we have night.

Chinese children look like little men and women, for they dress like their fathers and mothers.
Boys and girls dress nearly alike.  They both dress in silk or cotton trousers.  They wear
over these long gowns reaching nearly to their feet.  They wear odd-looking shoes with thick
white soles.  The boys' heads are shaved, except a small part on top. There a lock of hair
is left.  This lock of hair is braided and hangs down the back.  A queer name is given to it.
It is called a "queue." Girls in China do not go to school, but all day long they are busy;
they help their mothers keep house; they tend the babies; they sew, and help with the cooking.

The schools in China are only for boys.  The boys make a great deal of noise in school.  A
Chinese teacher thinks the boys are idle if they do not study their lessons out loud.  So each
boy shouts as loud as he can.  When the boy has learned his lesson, he goes up and gives his
book to the teacher.  Then he turns his back to the teacher, and shouts out the whole lesson
to show that he knows it.

The boys are taught to count.  They learn by using balls set in a frame.  The frame is like
the frame of a slate.  The balls slide on wires.  With the balls they learn to add and subtract.

They also learn how to write, but they have no pens or pencils.  They write with small brushes
dipped in ink.  Each boy makes his own ink. He puts some water on a stone and then rubs a cake
of ink in the water. This makes a fine black ink called India ink.  Then the boy fills his
brush and begins at the top, right-hand corner of the paper.  He writes toward the bottom of
the sheet.  He puts one word under another instead of beside it as you do.  Then he begins
a new line at the top, and writes to the bottom again.

Chinese books are printed in the same way.  Where do you think a Chinese book begins?  A Chinese
book begins where our books end.

In China many girls and women have very small feet.  When they are babies their feet are bound
up tightly.  They sometimes wear iron shoes.   Then their feet never grow, but are so very
small that they can hardly walk.  Poor parents know their girls will have to work hard, and
so do not bind their feet.

Chinese girls make beautiful paper flowers.  They paint pictures.  They sing and play.  Some
of them pick the snow-white cotton in the fields. Some of them take care of the silk-worms
that spin the soft silk.

But they do not work all the time.   They play many pretty games. Chinese boys, too, have many
kinds of games and toys.   One game is like battledoor and shuttlecock.  They use their feet
to strike the shuttlecock.  They do this so fast that the shuttlecock hardly ever falls to
the ground.  The Chinese are fond of flying kites.  Even old men fly kites.  They fly their
kites in the spring-time.  Chinese kites are of all sizes and shapes.  Some are like birds.
Some are like fish. Some are like butterflies.

 There is no other such land in all the world
for lanterns as China.  The lanterns there are made of paper in the
shape of balls, or flowers, or animals.  Some of the lanterns have a
wheel inside.  When the candle is lighted, the draft of air makes the
wheel go round very quickly.  When the wheel begins to move inside, the
figures on the outside of the lantern begin to move.  Then men are seen
fishing or fanning.  Sometimes children are seen dancing.

The Chinese are so fond of lanterns that every year they have a "Feast of Lanterns."  On that
day and night lanterns are to be seen everywhere.  Bridges and houses and trees are covered
with lighted lanterns.

They have fireworks, too, that look like stars and trees and flowers.

A Chinese dinner begins in the wrong way.  They have fruits and nuts first.  After this comes
rice.  They eat more of rice than of anything else.  Then they drink tea without either milk
or sugar.  They use neither forks nor knives.  Instead they eat with small sticks of wood or
ivory.  These are called "chopsticks."  They hold them between the thumb and first two fingers.
They use them to carry their food to their mouths as you use a fork or a spoon.

Do you know how they catch fish in China?

They have a bird which swims and dives into the water.  This bird lives on fish.  Every time
he dives he catches one.  He is trained to bring the fish to his master.  A tight ring is put
round the bird's neck. This is to keep him from swallowing the fish.  When enough fish have
been caught, the bird is given some to eat.  This bird is called a cormorant.

A Chinese fisherman lives in his fishing boat.  But China is a very crowded country.  So other
men as well as fishermen live on small flatboats in the rivers near the big towns.  Ducks and
other fowls are raised on these boats.  The people on the water are as busy as the people on
the land.

In China houses are one story high.  They are built of wood.  The roofs slope, and are made
of sticks woven together.  The churches are called pagodas.  They are not like our churches,
but are tall, like towers. They are usually nine stories high.  They have little bells hung
all around the roof.   These bells ring when the wind blows them back and forth.

Between the houses are narrow streets without sidewalks.  There are no wagons.  If a lady goes
to make a call, she sends for a sort of covered chair.  This has long poles on each side. 
The chair is set on the ground before her door.  After she gets in, men lift the poles to their
shoulders.  In this way they carry her.  Baggage and heavy articles are also carried on the
shoulders of men.

But perhaps the most wonderful thing in China is the Great Wall.  It was built by kings a long
time ago.  They wanted to keep savage people from coming into the country.  The wall is built
very high and very wide.  It is so wide in some places that eight horses can be driven on top
of it side by side.  It is hundreds of miles long.  The people of China think it is very wonderful.
They think there is nothing so wonderful in all the rest of the world.

China seems a curious country.  Boys shout out loud in school.  They read and write backward.
Men fly kites, like boys.  Women have feet as small as babies' feet.  At dinner nuts and fruits
are eaten first.  Men work like animals.  There are many ways in which the Chinese are different
from the people in our country.

JAPAN

How would you like to ride in a wagon drawn by a man instead of a horse?  That is the way people
ride in Japan.  Japan is a country a long way off, near China.  You would think that a man
could not run very fast drawing a wagon.  But in Japan some men can run as fast as horses.
The wagon is like a buggy, but it has only two wheels.  They call this wagon a jin-rik'i-sha.

The streets in Japan have no sidewalks.  The houses are only one or two stories high.  They
are built of wood.  They have no windows or doors. Strange houses, you will think.  The walls
outside and inside are made like sliding doors.  They slide back so that the people can go
in and out, and from one room to another.

The Japanese have very little furniture in their houses.  They have no chairs.  They do not
need any, for they sit on cushions on the floor. They also sleep on the floor.  When it is
time to go to bed, they spread soft quilts on the floor, one over the other.  The last quilt
on the top is the cover.  These beds are very nice.  But you could never guess what kind of
pillows they have.  The pillows are blocks of wood the size of a brick.  You would not think
them nice at all.  But the Japanese seem to sleep very well on their wood pillows.

Many of the things in the houses in Japan are made of paper, They have paper fans, paper lanterns,
paper hats, paper cups, paper umbrellas, paper napkins, and paper screens.

They have no stoves.  Instead of stoves they have boxes lined with brass.  In these boxes they
burn charcoal to heat their rooms.  But they do not cook their food in these brass boxes. 
They cook in little ovens made of clay.

When it rains in Japan the people look very funny.  The men wear rain coats made of rice straw.
They also have big straw hats and paper umbrellas.

They wear blocks, three inches high, fastened to the soles of their shoes.  These keep their
feet dry.  So on a rainy day everybody looks three inches taller.

In Japan they do not wear shoes in the house.  When they go into their houses they take them
off.  Their shoes are made of wood or straw. Some of the people have shoes with gold braid.

Perhaps you would like to know how they dress in Japan.  Boys and girls dress very much alike.
Both wear long gowns, like skirts, of blue or gray cotton or silk.  These gowns are open at
the neck.  A sash is worn around the waist.  The girls tie their sashes in a bow at the back.

The children of Japan are very strange looking, not at all like you. They are like the Chinese.
Their skin is yellow, and their eyes are slanted.  Their hair is black and straight.

You will wish to know what they eat in Japan.  The food is much the same as in China.  They
eat a great deal of rice.  They have fish, and they drink tea.  They use chopsticks in eating,
as the people in China do.

The people in Japan are very fond of flowers.  Every house has a garden around it.  The boys
and girls walk and play in these gardens.

Boys and girls in Japan have many nice toys.  One of their toys is a little oven with real
fire in it.  Peddlers go round with these ovens and with sweet dough to bake in them.  For
five cents the boys and girls can get the use of an oven, and dough enough to bake little cakes.
They often make cakes shaped like animals.  The peddler makes the letters of the alphabet in
dough.  Then he bakes them in the oven for the boys and girls.  With these cake letters they
often learn their a, b, c.

The boys in Japan, like the boys in China, are very fond of kites.  But in Japan they have
fighting kites.  They mix broken fine glass with glue, and rub it on their kite strings.  When
the strings become dry they are hard and sharp.  Then the boys fly their kites.  One boy tries
to cross and cut the string of another boy's kite with the string of his own.  The boy who
cuts down a kite gets it as his prize.

In Japan they have a day like our Flag Day.  On this day the boys have toy soldiers with swords
and guns.  They form these soldiers into armies, and have battles.  Then the parents and teachers
tell the boys about the great soldiers of their country, and the great battles they fought.

The girls have a day for themselves.  They call it the "Feast of Dolls."  Every girl has a
set of dolls.  On that day they take out their dolls and doll houses.  Then the girls play
with them, and show them to one another.

They have schools in Japan just as we have.  The boys and girls must go to school until they
are ten years old.  Some of their lessons are very hard.  They have forty-seven letters in
their alphabet, instead of only twenty-six, as we have.  Don't you think it must be hard for
the boys and girls to learn to read?

They go to school very early in the morning.  Before they enter the school they take off their
shoes.  When the teacher comes, they bow down their heads nearly to the ground and draw in
their breath.  This is their "good morning."  The teacher also bows to the boys and girls.

Then the children sit on the floor.  They put their books on their knees and begin their lessons.
They have no pens or pencils.  They use little brushes instead.  They write in lines from the
top to the bottom of the sheet of paper, instead of across from side to side as we do. This
is the way, you remember, they write in China.  The books in Japan are also like the books
in China.  The last page in our books would be the first page in books in China and Japan.
So their books begin at what we would think the end.  How queer this seems to us!

There are newspapers in Japan, but they are not much like ours.  The lines run up and down
just as Japanese writing does.  They read back from what we would call the last page.

A great many things that we use in America come from Japan.  We get silk from Japan, and beautiful
vases and mats and screens and basket work.  The boys and girls in Japan help to make these
things.  For they are bright and learn quickly how to do very nice work.

ARABIA.

Have you ever heard of the Arabs?  They are people with brown skin and dark eyes.  They live
in a country called Arabia.  It is a very warm country.  There is never any snow in Arabia.
A great part of it is covered with sand.  For miles and miles you would see nothing but sand.
Often the sand is so hot that you could not walk on it in your bare feet.  Those great tracts
of sand are called deserts.

In many parts of Arabia water is very scarce.  It rains very seldom, and in some places there
are no rivers.  The people get water out of wells.  They carry the water, in bottles  made
of leather.  Glass bottles would not do.  The heat is so great that it would go through the
glass.  Tins would make the water warm.  But the leather bottles keep the water cool.

Some of the Arabs live in towns.  They have walls around their towns. At some parts of the
walls there are towers.  Both walls and towers are made of earth.

In every large town they have an open market place with shops around it.  In most of the shops
they sell food.  In a few of the shops they sell cotton cloth and other dry goods.  Many of
the shops are kept by women.

The streets are swept every day.  Every family sweeps the street in front of its own door.

The houses in the towns are made of stone.  They have flat mud roofs and small windows.  The
Arabs have no chairs or beds in their houses. They sit on mats or carpets spread on the floor.
They also sleep on mats.

The chief room in an Arab house is the coffee room.  It is a large room with a furnace or fireplace
at one end of it for making coffee.

Many of the Arabs live in tents.  They move about from place to place. Sometimes they cross
the desert to come to the towns.  They must often cross it to find water and grass for their
horses and camels and sheep.

The camel is very useful to the Arabs.  Perhaps you have seen a camel. It is much larger than
a horse.  It has a great hump on its back.  It has large feet with broad, flat soles; and it
can walk or run over the sand without sinking.

The camel can carry a very heavy load.  It gives milk which is good to drink.  Its hair is
made into cloth.  Its flesh is good meat.  It can bear thirst and heat far better than a horse
can.  It can travel and carry a load in the desert for three or four days without drinking.
This makes it very useful to the Arabs.

But the Arabs have horses also.  They are the finest horses in the world.  An Arab is very
proud of his horse.  He loves him almost as much as he loves his children.

Did you ever hear the story that is told of Hassan and his horse? Hassan was an Arab who had
a horse which he loved very much.  And the horse loved Hassan very much.

One day Hassan was riding on his horse in the desert with some other Arabs.  They were met
by a party of men called Turks, who made them prisoners.  The Turks tied the feet of Hassan
and his friends with leather straps.  They tied the horses also.  They planned to carry them
off next morning.

During the night Hassan heard his horse neighing.  He crept up to him and said in a low voice:
"What will become of you, my poor horse?  You will not be happy with these Turks.  Go home
to my tent.  Tell my wife that she will never see me again.  Lick the hands of my children
with your tongue, as a token of my love."

He then bit off with his teeth the cords that tied the horse, and set him free.  The horse
looked at his master for a minute or two.  Then he caught him with his teeth by the belt and
ran off with him into the desert.  On and on across the sand he ran.  He never stopped until
he had laid Hassan down beside his wife and children.  Then, worn out with his long run, he
dropped dead at his master's feet.

All the people around wept when they heard the story.  Arab poets made songs about Hassan and
his horse.

The Arabs do not eat very much.  Their chief meal is supper.  They have supper in the evening.
They are very fond of coffee.  Did you ever hear of Mocha coffee?  It comes from Mocha, a town
in Arabia.  Most of the Arabs take their coffee without sugar or milk.

They always make their bread in thin cakes.  Then they bake the bread on hot iron plates or
in an open oven.  They also have ground wheat cooked with a little butter.  Arabs who are rich
have mutton or camel's flesh, and also rice.  All eat vegetables and fruits of various kinds.

There are many kinds of fruit in Arabia.  But the greatest and best of all is the date.  This
grows on the date-palm tree.  The date palm grows very high.  The Arabs are very proud of it.
Every part of it is of use to them.  Its fruit is the chief food of many of the people. You
have seen and perhaps you have eaten dried dates.  They are not nearly so sweet or so good
as the fruit when taken off the tree.  The trunk of the date palm is good for making furniture.
Its leaves make roofs for houses.  Parts of its branches make firewood.  From some parts of
the tree cords and ropes are made.

The Arabs do not wear very many clothes.  They do not need heavy clothes, because the weather
in Arabia is almost always very warm.  The men wear long light dresses like shirts.  They have
a belt, or girdle, around the waist.  They wear a handkerchief on the head.  This is tied around
with a band or string.  On their feet they wear sandals.  Do you know what a sandal is?  It
is a shoe with only a sole, and straps going across the foot and round the ankle.  The Arab
women also wear a long shirt.  Over it they have a large, wide piece of blue cloth.  This blue
cloth covers them from head to foot.

But what about the Arab boys and girls?  What do they wear?  Most of the boys run around without
shoes or stockings.  But some of them wear little red shoes turned up at the toes, and others
wear small sandals. They also wear loose trousers and jackets and little red caps.  The girls
commonly wear cotton dresses that are made very plain.  Sometimes they have veils over their
heads.  In the country places the girls do not wear veils.

Only the boys go to school.  Before they enter the school they must take off their sandals.
They have no seats in their schools.  They all sit on the floor.  Their lessons are not like
your lessons.  They have only one book.  It is called the Koran.  The Koran is the Arab Bible.
The Arab boys must learn the Koran by heart.  At school, they all shout out together when they
are learning their lessons.

But the Arab boys learn many things at home.  They learn to read and to write.  They also have
plenty of time to play.  They play ball.  They fly kites.  They ride ponies.  Often they play
with old guns and swords.  Thus they learn to be soldiers.

The Arab girls do not go to school.  But they do not play very much. They must help their mothers
do the work at home.  The mothers grind corn to make bread.  They spin and weave cloth for
clothes.  They grind the corn with two flat stones.  One of these stones is placed on top of
the other.  There is a hole in the middle of the upper stone.  They pour the corn into this
hole.  The upper stone is then turned round by a handle.  So the corn is ground between the
two stones.  The girls often have to turn the stone around.  They must also take care of the
baby.  They help to carry home water from the well.  They carry the water in earthen jars.

You will say, then, that the Arab girls have a hard time.  But they do not work always.  They
have some time for play.  They have very funny dolls.  Would you not laugh if some one gave
you two sticks joined like a cross, and told you it was a doll?  That is the kind of doll the
Arab girls have.  And they are very fond of their dolls.  They dress them, and take great care
of them.

The Arabs are very fond of tales and stories.  Perhaps you have heard of a book called the
"Arabian Nights."  It is full of wonderful stories about kings and giants and witches, and
other strange things.  This book came from Arabia.  When you are older you will read the "Arabian
Nights."  In it you will learn many more things about Arabia and the Arabs.

KOREA.

What funny hats they wear in Korea!

But, you will ask, where is Korea?  It is near Japan, a country you have read of in this book.

The people of Korea look a little like Chinamen.  They have yellow skin and slanting eyes.
Their hair is long, straight, and black, and they wear it in a very strange way.  The boys
and girls wear their hair down their backs in braids tied with ribbons.  The men and women
have their hair in little topknots that stand straight up.

But I must tell you about the strange hats they have.  Some of the men wear hats that go down
over their shoulders.  This is the kind of hat they wear when they are in mourning, after the
death of a father or mother.  Some wear hats made of straw.  These hats look like large flowerpots
turned upside down.  Some have hats made of horsehair.

But the hats made of straw and the hats made of horsehair do not keep the rain out.  So they
have umbrellas.  Their umbrellas are as funny as the hats.  They are made of oil paper, and
have no handles.  They look like fans.  When it rains, the people open their umbrellas and
tie them on top of their hats.

The boys in Korea wear loose jackets, and wide trousers which go under their stockings.  The
stockings are padded with cotton, and are tied at the ankle.  The girls wear very pretty little
jackets, sometimes red, sometimes pink, and sometimes green.

The shoes they wear in Korea are of many kinds and shapes.  Some are made of leather.  Others
are like the wooden shoes the Chinamen wear, which turn up at the toes.  The funniest shoes
they have are made of paper.  The paper is very thick and strong, and so their paper shoes
last a good while.  But the shoes that are worn by most of the people in Korea are made of
straw.  They are like sandals, and they are worn so that the large toe is not covered.

The people in Korea have a strange way of keeping themselves cool in hot weather.  They have
something like a basket made of rods of bamboo. This basket is round and long, and open at
the top and bottom.  They put their heads through this basket, and it hangs downward from their
shoulders around their bodies.  Then they put their clothes over it, so that the basket is
inside.  It is next to their skin.  How would you like to have such a summer dress?

The boys in Korea go to school when they are very young.  The girls do not go to school.  They
stay at home to help their mothers.  But girls whose parents are rich have teachers at home
to teach them reading and writing and other things.

In school, the teacher sits on a straw mat on the floor.  The boys also sit on the floor on
straw mats.  They say their lessons out loud.  They write their lines from the top to the bottom
of the page.  The people in China and Japan, as you know, write in the same way.  The boys
of Korea learn to count on a chon-pan.  The chon-pan is much like the counting box they have
in the schools in China.  It is made of little balls on a frame of wires fixed in a box.  The
boys also learn by heart the wise sayings of great men.

The boys in Korea have some very nice toys.  But the best playthings they have are their kites.
They make their kites fight battles in the air, just as the boys do in Japan.  Every boy tries
to tear down every other boy's kite.  This is done by pulling the strings across one another.
Sometimes the sky is full of beautiful kites, which jump and dash about as if they were alive.

The boys also have fine, large pinwheels.  They make these pinwheels whirl around in the wind.
The boys also spin tops, and they play "seesaw," and jump the rope.

The boys in Korea are fond of fishing.  Nearly every boy has a fishing rod and goes fishing
whenever he can.  Sometimes the boys have great fun going around dressed like their fathers.
They wear wooden swords and little bows and arrows like soldiers.  They make straw figures
of men, and with their swords they strike off the heads of these straw men.

But the boys have to work as well as play.  Many of the peddlers in Korea are boys.  They sell
candy and other things.  The girls do a great deal of work at home.  The first thing they learn
to do is to sew.

Would you like to know how the women iron their clothes?  They wrap each piece around a stick
and lay it on the floor.  Then they sit down and beat the piece on the stick with wooden clubs.
In this way they make the clothes as smooth as a Chinaman makes the linen which he irons.

The houses in Korea are one or two stories high.  They are made of wood or clay, and sometimes
the roofs are of straw.  The windows are high, and the doors are often so low that the people
have to stoop down to go in.  The rooms are very small and have hardly any furniture.  There
are no chairs.  The people sit on mats on the floor.  The walls between the rooms are made
of paper, and the floor is made of stone.

They have a strange way of heating their houses.  They have no stoves or fireplaces.  But under
the floor they have a cellar like an oven. In this cellar a fire is always kept, and the rooms
are sometimes so hot that the people can hardly walk on the stone floors.

People who are poor sleep on mats on the floor.  They sleep in their clothes. People who are
rich have mattresses.  The mattresses are laid on the floor at night, and are taken up in the
morning.

The people of Korea eat a great deal of rice.  But they have other kinds of food.  They have
meat and fish and eggs and also fruit.  You would think that they would use a great deal of
tea, as they live so near China.  But they do not drink tea.  They drink rice water instead.
The rice water is water that rice has been boiled in.

At their meals the men always eat first and the women wait on them. When the men have eaten
as much as they want, then the women and children eat.

The tables they have are very low.  It would not do for them to have high tables, as they sit
on the floor.

They have no knives or forks.  They eat with spoons, and they use chopsticks, as the Chinamen do.

They have no water-pipes in their houses.  In the towns men carry water in pails.  They have
no gas.  For light at night they use candles.

They have only one kind of coin.  It is a small piece of copper.  It has a square hole in the
middle.  They put these coins on strings and carry them around their necks.  It would take
many such coins to make a dollar.

There are farms in Korea, where they grow wheat, rice, rye, tobacco, cotton, watermelons, and
many kinds of fruit.

If you were in Korea, you would think it the strangest country in the world.  They do many
things very unlike the way we do them.  With us bright-colored things are worn by women.  In
Korea the men wear bright colors.  They have a funny way of selling eggs there.  They place
ten eggs end to end in a row, and put straw around them.  Then they tie strings around the
straw between the eggs.  This is called a stick of eggs.  When people go to buy eggs, they
ask for one or two sticks, or as many as they wish.  One stick of eggs costs less than five cents.

Instead of a president they have a king.  The king lives in the largest town.  There is a thick,
high wall all around this town.  There are gates in the wall, and these are shut at night.
After the gates are shut, no one can get in or out until they are opened in the morning.

The people show very great respect for the king.  When they go to speak to him they throw themselves
down on their faces before his throne. The people love their country very much.  They think
it is the most beautiful country in the world.

INDIA.

How would you like to go to school at six o'clock in the morning?  That is the time many children
go to school in India.  India is a large country in Asia.  The children stay in school till
nine o'clock.  Then they go home for breakfast, and go back to school at ten.  At two o'clock
they go home for dinner.  They go back again at three to stay till evening.  You will think
that this is a long time to be at school.

In some of the schools they have no desks or chairs, but the boys and girls sit on the floor.
In other schools they have long tables instead of desks.

They do not learn their letters as we do.  The teachers write five letters in sand on the floor.
Then the boys and girls write the letters in the sand.  They write the letters many times,
until they know them well.  Then the teachers write five more letters, and so on until the
children know all the letters.  When they can make the letters in the sand, they next learn
to write them on palm leaves with pens made of wood.  The last thing they do is to write them
on slates and on paper.

