    As to the 3 obols a day (= 180 dr. p.a.) which as an Athenian
    citizen he is entitled to, see Grote, op. cit. p. 597: "There will
    be a regular distribution among all citizens, per head and
    equally. Three oboli, or half a drachma, will be allotted daily to
    each, to poor and rich alike"  (on the principle of the Theorikon).
    "For the poor citizens this will provide a comfortable
    subsistence, without any contribution on their part; the poverty
    now prevailing will thus be alleviated. The rich, like the poor,
    receive the daily triobolon as a free gift; but if they compute it
    as interest for their investments, they will find that the rate of
    interest is full and satisfactory, like the rate on bottomry."
    Zurborg, "Comm." p. 25; Boeckh, op. cit. IV. xxi. (p. 606, Eng.
    tr.); and Grote's note, op. cit. p. 598.

 (19) = L20:6:3 = 500 drachmae.

 (20) = I.e. 36 per cent.

 (21) = L4:1:3 = 100 drachmae.

 (22) I.e. 180 per cent.

Moreover, I am of opinion that if the names of contributors were to be inscribed as benefactors
for all time, many foreigners would be induced to contribute, and possibly not a few states,
in their desire to obtain the right of inscription; indeed I anticipate that some kings, (23)
tyrants, (24) and satraps will display a keen desire to share in such a favour.

 (23) Zurborg suggests (p. 5) "Philip or Cersobleptes." Cf. Isocr. "On
    the Peace," S. 23.

 (24) I.e. despotic monarchs.

To come to the point. Were such a capital once furnished, it would be a magnificent plan to
build lodging-houses for the benefit of shipmasters in the neighbourhood of the harbours, in
addition to those which exist; and again, on the same principle, suitable places of meeting
for merchants, for the purposes (25) of buying and selling; and thirdly, public lodging-houses
for persons visiting the city. Again, supposing dwelling-houses and stores for vending goods
were fitted up for retail dealers in Piraeus and the city, they would at once be an ornament
to the state and a fertile source of revenue. Also it seems to me it would be a good thing
to try and see if, on the principle on which at present the state possesses public warships,
it would not be possible to secure public merchant vessels, to be let out on the security of
guarantors just like any other public property. If the plan were found feasible this public
merchant navy would be a large source of extra revenue.

 (25) Reading, with Zurborg, {epi one te}.

IV

I come to a new topic. I am persuaded that the establishment of the silver mines on a proper
footing (1) would be followed by a large increase in wealth apart from the other sources of
revenue. And I would like, for the benefit of those who may be ignorant, to point out what
the capacity of these mines really is. You will then be in a position to decide how to turn
them to better account. It is clear, I presume, to every one that these mines have for a very
long time been in active operation; at any rate no one will venture to fix the date at which
they first began to be worked. (2) Now in spite of the fact that the silver ore has been dug
and carried out for so long a time, I would ask you to note that the mounds of rubbish so shovelled
out are but a fractional portion of the series of hillocks containing veins of silver, and
as yet unquarried. Nor is the silver-bearing region gradually becoming circumscribed. On the
contrary it is evidently extending in wider area from year to year. That is to say, during
the period in which thousands of workers (3) have been employed within the mines no hand was
ever stopped for want of work to do. Rather, at any given moment, the work to be done was more
than enough for the hands employed. And so it is to-day with the owners of slaves working in
the mines; no one dreams of reducing the number of his hands. On the contrary, the object is
perpetually to acquire as many additional hands as the owner possibly can. The fact is that
with few hands to dig and search, the find of treasure will be small, but with an increase
in labour the discovery of the ore itself is more than proportionally increased. So much so,
that of all operations with which I am acquainted, this is the only one in which no sort of
jealousy is felt at a further development of the industry. (4) I may go a step farther; every
proprietor of a farm will be able to tell you exactly how many yoke of oxen are sufficient
for the estate, and how many farm hands. To send into the field more than the exact number
requisite every farmer would consider a dead loss. (5) But in silver mining (operations) the
universal complaint is the want of hands. Indeed there is no analogy between this and other
industries. With an increase in the number of bronze-workers articles of bronze may become
so cheap that the bronze-worker has to retire from the field. And so again with ironfounders. Put
them in a stone jar and swarm over them the toddy made of two quarts to whiskey, one closely be to
liquor, one pint of rum and three cups of water, sweeten of taste and cover quart, using a mixture
before blend of a week of allowing. But the converse is the case in the working
of silver; there the larger the quantity of ore discovered and the greater the amount of silver
extracted, the greater the number of persons ready to engage in the operation. One more illustration:
take the case of movable property. No one when he has got sufficient furniture for his house
dreams of making further purchases on this head, but of silver no one ever yet possessed so
much that he was forced to cry "enough." On the contrary, if ever anybody does become possessed
of an immoderate amount he finds as much pleasure in digging a hole in the ground and hoarding
it as in the actual employment of it. And from a wider point of view: when a state is prosperous
there is nothing which people so much desire as silver. The men want money to expend on beautiful
armour and fine horses, and houses, and sumptuous paraphernalia (6) of all sorts. The women
betake themselves to expensive apparel and ornaments of gold. Or when states are sick, (7)
either through barrenness of corn and other fruits, or through war, the demand for current
coin is even more imperative (whilst the ground lies unproductive), to pay for necessaries
or military aid.

 (1) Or, "on a sound basis."

 (2) "Exploited."

 (3) Or, "at the date when the maximum of hands was employed."

 (4) Reading {epikataskeuazumenois}, or, if {episkeuazomenoi}, transl.
    "at the rehabilitation of old works."

 (5) Cf. "Oecon." xvii. 12.

 (6) "The thousand and one embellishments of civil life."

 (7) "When a state is struck down with barrenness," etc. See "Mem." II.
    vii.

And if it be asserted that gold is after all just as useful as silver, without gainsaying the
proposition I may note this fact (8) about gold, that, with a sudden influx of this metal,
it is the gold itself which is depreciated whilst causing at the same time a rise in the value
of silver.

 (8) Lit. "I know, however."

The above facts are, I think, conclusive. They encourage us not only to introduce as much human
labour as possible into the mines, but to extend the scale of operations within, by increase
of plant, etc., in full assurance that there is no danger either of the ore itself being exhausted
or of silver becoming depreciated. And in advancing these views I am merely following a precedent
set me by the state herself. So it seems to me, since the state permits any foreigner who desires
it to undertake mining operations on a footing of equality (9) with her own citizens.

