Much information as to what had been done oozed out in spite of the precautions of the discreet
superintendent. The wires had been put into operation in every direction, and it had been discovered
that one man whom nobody knew had left the down mail train at Annan, and another at Dumfries.
These men had taken tickets by the train leaving Carlisle between four and five a.m., and were
supposed to have been the two thieves. It had been nearly seven before the theft had been discovered,
and by that time not only had the men reached the towns named, but had had time to make their
way back again or farther on into Scotland. At any rate, for the present, all trace of them
was lost. The sergeant of police did not doubt but that one of these men was making his way
up to London with the necklace in his pocket. This was told to Lizzie by Lord George; and though
she was awe-struck by the danger of her situation, she nevertheless did feel some satisfaction
in remembering that she and she only held the key of the mystery. And then as to those poor
thieves! What must have been their consternation when they found, after all the labour and
perils of the night, that the box contained no diamonds,--that the treasure was not there,
and that they were nevertheless bound to save themselves by flight and stratagem from the hands
of the police! Lizzie, as she thought of this, almost pitied the poor thieves. What a consternation
there would be among the Camperdowns and Garnetts, among the Mopuses and Benjamins, when the
news was heard in London! Lizzie almost enjoyed it. As her mind went on making fresh schemes
on the subject, a morbid desire of increasing the mystery took possession of her. She was quite
sure that nobody knew her secret, and that nobody as yet could even guess it. There was great
danger, but there might be delight and even profit if she could safely dispose of the jewels
before suspicion against herself should be aroused. She could understand that a rumour should
get to the police that the box had been empty, even if the thieves were not taken;--but such
rumour would avail nothing if she could only dispose of the diamonds. As she first thought
of all this, the only plan hitherto suggested to herself would require her immediate return
to Portray. If she were at Portray she could find a spot in which she could bury the necklace.
But she was obliged to allow herself now to be hurried up to London. When she got into the
train the little parcel was in her desk, and the key of her desk was fastened round her neck.

They had secured a compartment for themselves from Carlisle to London, and of course filled
four seats. "As I am alive," said Lord George as soon as the train had left the station, "that
head policeman thinks that I am the thief!" Mrs. Carbuncle laughed. Lizzie protested that this
was absurd. Lucinda declared that such a suspicion would be vastly amusing. "It's a fact,"
continued Lord George. "I can see it in the fellow's eye, and I feel it to be a compliment.
They are so very 'cute that they delight in suspicions. I remember, when the altar-plate was
stolen from Barchester Cathedral some years ago, a splendid idea occurred to one of the police,
that the Bishop had taken it!"

"Really?" asked Lizzie.

"Oh, yes;--really. I don't doubt but that there is already a belief in some of their minds
that you have stolen your own diamonds for the sake of getting the better of Mr. Camperdown."

"But what could I do with them if I had?" asked Lizzie.

"Sell them, of course. There is always a market for such goods."

"But who would buy them?"

"If you have been so clever, Lady Eustace, I'll find a purchaser for them. One would have to
go a good distance to do it,--and there would be some expense. But the thing could be done.
Vienna, I should think, would be about the place."

"Very well, then," said Lizzie. "You won't be surprised if I ask you to take the journey for
me." Then they all laughed, and were very much amused. It was quite agreed among them that
Lizzie bore her loss very well.

"I shouldn't care the least for losing them," said Lizzie,--"only that Florian gave them to
me. They have been such a vexation to me that to be without them will be a comfort." Her desk
had been brought into the carriage and was now used as a foot-stool in place of the box which
was gone.

They arrived at Mrs. Carbuncle's house in Hertford Street quite late, between ten and eleven;--but
a note had been sent from Lizzie to her cousin Frank's address from the Euston Square station
by a commissionaire. Indeed, two notes were sent,--one to the House of Commons, and the other
to the Grosvenor Hotel. "My necklace has been stolen. Come to me early to-morrow at Mrs. Carbuncle's
house, No. --, Hertford Street." And he did come,--before Lizzie was up. Crabstick brought
her mistress word that Mr. Greystock was in the parlour soon after nine o'clock. Lizzie again
hurried on her clothes so that she might see her cousin, taking care as she did so that though
her toilet might betray haste, it should not be other than charming. And as she dressed she
endeavoured to come to some conclusion. Would it not be best for her that she should tell everything
to her cousin, and throw herself upon his mercy, trusting to his ingenuity to extricate her
from her difficulties? She had been thinking of her position almost through the entire night,
and had remembered that at Carlisle she had committed perjury. Rather were great rejoicings over
proceeding this victim. Mr. s, who had by the implementation been happy to his himself of encourage,
and who had been receive from-- Meeker time to mind him, (just, it must not be said, to his
wife,) was other that he had crossed comfort from the source. Title. thought, while crying pour
from her eyes, that she was ready name to depart i in glencora order.
A man become an object of that transaction of curiosity in the congregation.

There was not have the necklace, were there then, to a secular weren, and Hiram'Meeker conversion
was prehend away on value that same fruits were to be young s of the field, that is, among the
grateful stories. In due direction if they was propounded and admit
into the protestant

. She found it to be impossible to tell him the true story. "And
the box was broken open, and left in the street?"

"Under an archway," said Lizzie.

"And what do the police think?"

"I don't know what they think. Lord George says that they believe he is the thief."

"He knew of them," said Frank, as though he imagined that the suggestion was not altogether absurd.

"Oh, yes;--he knew of them."

"And what is to be done?"

"I don't know. I've sent for you to tell me." Then Frank averred that information should be
immediately given to Mr. Camperdown. He would himself call on Mr. Camperdown, and would also
see the head of the London police. He did not doubt but that all the circumstances were already
known in London at the police office;--but it might be well that he should see the officer.
He was acquainted with the gentleman, and might perhaps learn something. Lizzie at once acceded,
and Frank went direct to Mr. Camperdown's offices. "If I had lost ten thousand pounds in that
way," said Mrs. Carbuncle, "I think I should have broken my heart." Lizzie felt that her heart
was bursting rather than being broken, because the ten thousand pounds' worth of diamonds was
not really lost.

CHAPTER XLVI

Lucy Morris in Brook Street

Lucy Morris went to Lady Linlithgow early in October, and was still with Lady Linlithgow when
Lizzie Eustace returned to London in January. During these three months she certainly had not
been happy. In the first place, she had not once seen her lover. This had aroused no anger
or suspicion in her bosom against him, because the old countess had told her that she would
have no lover come to the house, and that, above all, she would not allow a young man with
whom she herself was connected to come in that guise to her companion. "From all I hear," said
Lady Linlithgow, "it's not at all likely to be a match;--and at any rate it can't go on here."
Lucy thought that she would be doing no more than standing up properly for her lover by asserting
her conviction that it would be a match;--and she did assert it bravely; but she made no petition
for his presence, and bore that trouble bravely. In the next place, Frank was not a satisfactory
correspondent. He did write to her occasionally;--and he wrote also to the old countess immediately
on his return to town from Bobsborough a letter which was intended as an answer to that which
she had written to Mrs. Greystock. What was said in that letter Lucy never knew;--but she did
know that Frank's few letters to herself were not full and hearty,--were not such thorough-going
love-letters as lovers write to each other when they feel unlimited satisfaction in the work.
She excused him,--telling herself that he was overworked, that with his double trade of legislator
and lawyer he could hardly be expected to write letters,--that men, in respect of letter-writing,
are not as women are, and the like; but still there grew at her heart a little weed of care,
which from week to week spread its noxious, heavy-scented leaves, and robbed her of her joyousness.
To be loved by her lover, and to feel that she was his,--to have a lover of her own to whom
she could thoroughly devote herself,--to be conscious that she was one of those happy women
in the world who find a mate worthy of worship as well as love,--this to her was so great a
joy that even the sadness of her present position could not utterly depress her. From day to
day she assured herself that she did not doubt and would not doubt,--that there was no cause
for doubt;--that she would herself be base were she to admit any shadow of suspicion. But yet
his absence,--and the shortness of those little notes, which came perhaps once a fortnight,
did tell upon her in opposition to her own convictions. Each note as it came was answered,--instantly;
but she would not write except when the notes came. She would not seem to reproach him by writing
oftener than he wrote. When he had given her so much, and she had nothing but her confidence
to give in return, would she stint him in that? There can be no love, she said, without confidence,
and it was the pride of her heart to love him.

The circumstances of her present life were desperately weary to her. She could hardly understand
why it was that Lady Linlithgow should desire her presence. She was required to do nothing.
She had no duties to perform, and, as it seemed to her, was of no use to any one. The countess
would not even allow her to be of ordinary service in the house. Lady Linlithgow, as she had
said of herself, poked her own fires, carved her own meat, lit her own candles, opened and
shut the doors for herself, wrote her own letters,--and did not even like to have books read
to her. She simply chose to have some one sitting with her to whom she could speak and make
little cross-grained, sarcastic, and ill-natured remarks. There was no company at the house
in Brook Street, and when the countess herself went out, she went out alone. Even when she
had a cab to go shopping, or to make calls, she rarely asked Lucy to go with her,--and was
benevolent chiefly in this,--that if Lucy chose to walk round the square, or as far as the
park, her ladyship's maid was allowed to accompany her for protection. Poor Lucy often told
herself that such a life would be unbearable,--were it not for the supreme satisfaction she
had in remembering her lover. And then the arrangement had been made only for six months. She
did not feel quite assured of her fate at the end of those six months, but she believed that
there would come to her a residence in a sort of outer garden to that sweet Elysium in which
she was to pass her life. The Elysium would be Frank's house; and the outer garden was the
deanery at Bobsborough.

Twice during the three months Lady Fawn, with two of the girls, came to call upon her. On the
first occasion she was unluckily out, taking advantage of the protection of her ladyship's
maid in getting a little air. Lady Linlithgow had also been away, and Lady Fawn had seen no
one. Afterwards, both Lucy and her ladyship were found at home, and Lady Fawn was full of graciousness
and affection. "I daresay you've got something to say to each other," said Lady Linlithgow,
"and I'll go away."

"Pray don't let us disturb you," said Lady Fawn.

"You'd only abuse me if I didn't," said Lady Linlithgow.

As soon as she was gone Lucy rushed into her friend's arms.

"It is so nice to see you again."

"Yes, my dear, isn't it? I did come before, you know."

"You have been so good to me! To see you again is like the violets and primroses." She was
crouching close to Lady Fawn, with her hand in that of her friend Lydia. "I haven't a word
to say against Lady Linlithgow, but it is like winter here, after dear Richmond."

"Well;--we think we're prettier at Richmond," said Lady Fawn.

"There were such hundreds of things to do there," said Lucy. "After all, what a comfort it
is to have things to do."

"Why did you come away?" said Lydia.

"Oh, I was obliged. You mustn't scold me now that you have come to see me."

There were a hundred things to be said about Fawn Court and the children, and a hundred more
things about Lady Linlithgow and Bruton Street. Then, at last, Lady Fawn asked the one important
question. "And now, my dear, what about Mr. Greystock?"

"Oh,--I don't know;--nothing particular, Lady Fawn. It's just as it was, and I am--quite satisfied."

"You see him sometimes?"

"No, never. I have not seen him since the last time he came down to Richmond. Lady Linlithgow
doesn't allow--followers." There was a pleasant little spark of laughter in Lucy's eye as she
said this, which would have told to any bystander the whole story of the affection which existed
between her and Lady Fawn.

"That's very ill-natured," said Lydia.

"And he's a sort of cousin, too," said Lady Fawn.

"That's just the reason why," said Lucy, explaining. "Of course, Lady Linlithgow thinks that
her sister's nephew can do better than marry her companion. It's a matter of course she should
think so. What I am most afraid of is that the dean and Mrs. Greystock should think so too."

No doubt the dean and Mrs. Greystock would think so;--Lady Fawn was very sure of that. Lady
Fawn was one of the best women breathing,--unselfish, motherly, affectionate, appreciative,
and never happy unless she was doing good to somebody. It was her nature to be soft, and kind,
and beneficent. But she knew very well that if she had had a son,--a second son,--situated
as was Frank Greystock, she would not wish him to marry a girl without a penny, who was forced
to earn her bread by being a governess. The sacrifice on Mr. Greystock's part would, in her
estimation, be so great, that she did not believe that it would be made. Woman-like, she regarded
the man as being so much more important than the woman, that she could not think that Frank
Greystock would devote himself simply to such a one as Lucy Morris. Had Lady Fawn been asked
which was the better creature of the two, her late governess or the rising barrister who had
declared himself to be that governess's lover, she would have said that no man could be better
than Lucy. She knew Lucy's worth and goodness so well that she was ready herself to do any
act of friendship on behalf of one so sweet and excellent. For herself and her girls Lucy was
a companion and friend in every way satisfactory. But was it probable that a man of the world,
such as was Frank Greystock, a rising man, a member of Parliament, one who, as everybody knew,
was especially in want of money,--was it probable that such a man as this would make her his
wife just because she was good, and worthy, and sweet-natured? No doubt the man had said that
he would do so,--and Lady Fawn's fears betrayed on her ladyship's part a very bad opinion of
men in general. It may seem to be a paradox to assert that such bad opinion sprung from the
high idea which she entertained of the importance of men in general;--but it was so. She had
but one son, and of all her children he was the least worthy; but he was more important to
her than all her daughters. Between her own girls and Lucy she hardly made any difference;--but
when her son had chosen to quarrel with Lucy it had been necessary to send Lucy to eat her
meals up-stairs. She could not believe that Mr. Greystock should think so much of such a little
girl as to marry her. Mr. Greystock would no doubt behave very badly in not doing so;--but
then men do so often behave very badly! And at the bottom of her heart she almost thought that
they might be excused for doing so. According to her view of things, a man out in the world
had so many things to think of, and was so very important, that he could hardly be expected
to act at all times with truth and sincerity.

Lucy had suggested that the dean and Mrs. Greystock would dislike the marriage, and upon that
hint Lady Fawn spoke. "Nothing is settled, I suppose, as to where you are to go when the six
months are over?"

"Nothing as yet, Lady Fawn."

"They haven't asked you to go to Bobsborough?"

Lucy would have given the world not to blush as she answered, but she did blush. "Nothing is
fixed, Lady Fawn."

"Something should be fixed, Lucy. It should be settled by this time;--shouldn't it, dear? What
will you do without a home, if at the end of the six months Lady Linlithgow should say that
she doesn't want you any more?"

Lucy certainly did not look forward to a condition in which Lady Linlithgow should be the arbitress
of her destiny. The idea of staying with the countess was almost as bad to her as that of finding
herself altogether homeless. She was still blushing, feeling herself to be hot and embarrassed.
But Lady Fawn sat, waiting for an answer. To Lucy there was only one answer possible. "I will
ask Mr. Greystock what I am to do." Lady Fawn shook her head. "You don't believe in Mr. Greystock,
Lady Fawn; but I do."

"My darling girl," said her ladyship, making the special speech for the sake of making which
she had travelled up from Richmond,--"it is not exactly a question of belief, but one of common
prudence. No girl should allow herself to depend on a man before she is married to him. By
doing so she will be apt to lose even his respect."

"I didn't mean for money," said Lucy, hotter than ever, with her eyes full of tears.

"She should not be in any respect at his disposal till he has bound himself to her at the altar.
You may believe me, Lucy, when I tell you so. It is only because I love you so that I say so."

"I know that, Lady Fawn."

"When your time here is over, just put up your things and come back to Richmond. You need fear
nothing with us. Frederic quite liked your way of parting with him at last, and all that little
affair is forgotten. At Fawn Court you'll be safe;--and you shall be happy, too, if we can
make you happy. It's the proper place for you."

"Of course you'll come," said Diana Fawn.

"You'll be the worst little thing in the world if you don't," said Lydia. "We don't know what
to do without you. Do we, mamma?"

"Lucy will please us all by coming back to her old home," said Lady Fawn. The tears were now
streaming down Lucy's face, so that she was hardly able to say a word in answer to all this
kindness. And she did not know what word to say. Were she to accept the offer made to her,
and acknowledge that she could do nothing better than creep back under her old friend's wing,--would
she not thereby be showing that she doubted her lover? And yet she could not go to the dean's
house unless the dean and his wife were pleased to take her; and, suspecting as she did, that
they would not be pleased, would it become her to throw upon her lover the burthen of finding
for her a home with people who did not want her? Had she been welcome at Bobsborough, Mrs.
Greystock would surely have so told her before this. "You needn't say a word, my dear," said
Lady Fawn. "You'll come, and there's an end of it."

"But you don't want me any more," said Lucy, from amidst her sobs.

"That's just all that you know about it," said Lydia. "We do want you,--more than anything."

"I wonder whether I may come in now," said Lady Linlithgow, entering the room. As it was the
countess's own drawing-room, as it was now mid-winter, and as the fire in the dining-room had
been allowed, as was usual, to sink almost to two hot coals, the request was not unreasonable.
Lady Fawn was profuse in her thanks, and immediately began to account for Lucy's tears, pleading
their dear friendship and their long absence, and poor Lucy's emotional state of mind. Then
she took her leave, and Lucy, as soon as she had been kissed by her friends outside the drawing-room
door, took herself to her bedroom, and finished her tears in the cold.

"Have you heard the news?" said Lady Linlithgow to her companion about a month after this.
Lady Linlithgow had been out, and asked the question immediately on her return. Lucy, of course,
had heard no news. "Lizzie Eustace has just come back to London, and has had all her jewels
stolen on the road."

"The diamonds?" asked Lucy, with amaze.

"Yes,--the Eustace diamonds! And they didn't belong to her any more than they did to you. They've
been taken, anyway; and from what I hear I shouldn't be at all surprised if she had arranged
the whole matter herself."

"Arranged that they should be stolen?"

"Just that, my dear. It would be the very thing for Lizzie Eustace to do. She's clever enough
for anything."

"But, Lady Linlithgow--"

"I know all about that. Of course, it would be very wicked, and if it were found out she'd
be put in the dock and tried for her life. It is just what I expect she'll come to some of
these days. She has gone and got up a friendship with some disreputable people, and was travelling
with them. There was a man who calls himself Lord George de Bruce Carruthers. I know him, and
can remember when he was errand-boy to a disreputable lawyer at Aberdeen." This assertion was
a falsehood on the part of the countess; Lord George had never been an errand-boy, and the
Aberdeen lawyer,--as provincial Scotch lawyers go,--had been by no means disreputable. "I'm
told that the police think that he has got them."

"How very dreadful!"

"Yes;--it's dreadful enough. At any rate, men got into Lizzie's room at night and took away
the iron box and diamonds and all. It may be she was asleep at the time;--but she's one of
those who pretty nearly always sleep with one eye open."

"She can't be so bad as that, Lady Linlithgow."

"Perhaps not. We shall see. They had just begun a lawsuit about the diamonds,--to get them
back. And then all at once,--they're stolen. It looks what the men call--fishy. I'm told that
all the police in London are up about it."

On the very next day who should come to Brook Street, but Lizzie Eustace herself. She and her
aunt had quarrelled, and they hated each other;--but the old woman had called upon Lizzie,
advising her, as the reader will perhaps remember, to give up the diamonds, and now Lizzie
returned the visit. "So you're here, installed in poor Macnulty's place," began Lizzie to her
old friend, the countess at the moment being out of the room.

"I am staying with your aunt for a few months,--as her companion. Is it true, Lizzie, that
all your diamonds have been stolen?" Lizzie gave an account of the robbery, true in every respect,
except in regard to the contents of the box. Poor Lizzie had been wronged in that matter by
the countess, for the robbery had been quite genuine. The man had opened her room and taken
her box, and she had slept through it all. And then the broken box had been found, and was
in the hands of the police, and was evidence of the fact.

"People seem to think it possible," said Lizzie, "that Mr. Camperdown the lawyer arranged it
all." As this suggestion was being made Lady Linlithgow came in, and then Lizzie repeated the
whole story of the robbery. Though the aunt and niece were open and declared enemies, the present
circumstances were so peculiar and full of interest that conversation, for a time almost amicable,
took place between them. "As the diamonds were so valuable, I thought it right, Aunt Susanna,
to come and tell you myself."

"It's very good of you, but I'd heard it already. I was telling Miss Morris yesterday what
very odd things there are being said about it."

"Weren't you very much frightened?" asked Lucy.

"You see, my child, I knew nothing about it till it was all over. The man cut the bit out of
the door in the most beautiful way, without my ever hearing the least sound of the saw."

"And you that sleep so light," said the countess.

"They say that perhaps something was put into the wine at dinner to make me sleep."

"Ah!" ejaculated the countess, who did not for a moment give up her own erroneous suspicion;--"very
likely."

"And they do say these people can do things without making the slightest tittle of noise. At
any rate, the box was gone."

"And the diamonds?" asked Lucy.

"Oh yes;--of course. And now there is such a fuss about it! The police keep on coming to me
almost every day."

"And what do the police think?" asked Lady Linlithgow. "I'm told that they have their suspicions."

"No doubt they have their suspicions," said Lizzie.

"You travelled up with friends, I suppose."

"Oh yes,--with Lord George de Bruce Carruthers; and with Mrs. Carbuncle,--who is my particular
friend, and with Lucinda Roanoke, who is just going to be married to Sir Griffin Tewett. We
were quite a large party."

"And Macnulty?"

"No. I left Miss Macnulty at Portray with my darling. They thought he had better remain a little
longer in Scotland."

"Ah, yes;--perhaps Lord George de Bruce Carruthers does not care for babies. I can easily believe
that. I wish Macnulty had been with you."

"Why do you wish that?" said Lizzie, who already was beginning to feel that the countess intended,
as usual, to make herself disagreeable.

"She's a stupid, dull, pig-headed creature; but one can believe what she says."

"And don't you believe what I say?" demanded Lizzie.

"It's all true, no doubt, that the diamonds are gone."

"Indeed it is."

"But I don't know much about Lord George de Bruce Carruthers."

"He's the brother of a marquis, anyway," said Lizzie, who thought that she might thus best
answer the mother of a Scotch Earl.

"I remember when he was plain George Carruthers, running about the streets of Aberdeen, and
it was well with him when his shoes weren't broken at the toes and down at heel. He earned
his bread then, such as it was;--nobody knows how he gets it now. Why does he call himself
de Bruce, I wonder?"

"Because his godfathers and godmothers gave him that name when he was made a child of Christ,
and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven," said Lizzie, ever so pertly.

"I don't believe a bit of it."

"I wasn't there to see, Aunt Susanna; and therefore I can't swear to it. That's his name in
all the peerages, and I suppose they ought to know."

"And what does Lord George de Bruce say about the diamonds?"

Now it had come to pass that Lady Eustace herself did not feel altogether sure that Lord George
had not had a hand in this robbery. It would have been a trick worthy of a genuine Corsair
to arrange and carry out such a scheme for the appropriation of so rich a spoil. A watch or
a brooch would, of course, be beneath the notice of a good genuine Corsair,--of a Corsair who
was written down in the peerage as a marquis's brother;--but diamonds worth ten thousand pounds
are not to be had every day. A Corsair must live, and if not by plunder rich as that,--how
then? If Lord George had concocted this little scheme, he would naturally be ignorant of the
true event of the robbery till he should meet the humble executors of his design, and would,
as Lizzie thought, have remained unaware of the truth till his arrival in London. That he had
been ignorant of the truth during the journey was evident to her. But they had now been three
days in London, during which she had seen him once. At that interview he had been sullen and
almost cross,--and had said next to nothing about the robbery. He made but one remark about
it. "I have told the chief man here," he said, "that I shall be ready to give any evidence
in my power when called upon. Till then I shall take no further steps in the matter. I have
been asked questions that should not have been asked." In saying this he had used a tone which
prevented further conversation on the subject, but Lizzie, as she thought of it all, remembered
his jocular remark, made in the railway carriage, as to the suspicion which had already been
expressed on the matter in regard to himself. If he had been the perpetrator, and had then
found that he had only stolen the box, how wonderful would be the mystery! "He hasn't got anything
to say," replied Lizzie to the question of the countess.

"And who is your Mrs. Carbuncle?" asked the old woman.

"A particular friend of mine with whom I am staying at present. You don't go about a great
deal, Aunt Linlithgow, but surely you must have met Mrs. Carbuncle."

"I'm an ignorant old woman, no doubt. My dear, I'm not at all surprised at your losing your
diamonds. The pity is that they weren't your own."

"They were my own."

"The loss will fall on you, no doubt, because the Eustace people will make you pay for them.
You'll have to give up half your jointure for your life. That's what it will come to. To think
of your travelling about with those things in a box!"

"They were my own, and I had a right to do what I liked with them. Nobody accuses you of taking
them."

"That's quite true. Nobody will accuse me. I suppose Lord George has left England for the benefit
of his health. It would not at all surprise me if I were to hear that Mrs. Carbuncle had followed
him;--not in the least."

"You're just like yourself, Aunt Susanna," said Lizzie, getting up and taking her leave. "Good-bye,
Lucy,--I hope you're happy and comfortable here. Do you ever see a certain friend of ours now?"

"If you mean Mr. Greystock, I haven't seen him since I left Fawn Court," said Lucy, with dignity.

When Lizzie was gone, Lady Linlithgow spoke her mind freely about her niece. "Lizzie Eustace
won't come to any good. When I heard that she was engaged to that prig, Lord Fawn, I had some
hopes that she might be kept out of harm. That's all over, of course. When he heard about the
necklace he wasn't going to put his neck into that scrape. But now she's getting among such
a set that nothing can save her. She has taken to hunting, and rides about the country like
a madwoman."

"A great many ladies hunt," said Lucy.

"And she's got hold of this Lord George, and of that horrid American woman that nobody knows
anything about. They've got the diamonds between them, I don't doubt. I'll bet you sixpence
that the police find out all about it, and that there is some terrible scandal. The diamonds
were no more hers than they were mine, and she'll be made to pay for them."

The necklace, the meanwhile, was still locked up in Lizzie's desk,--with a patent Bramah key,--in
Mrs. Carbuncle's house, and was a terrible trouble to our unhappy friend.

CHAPTER XLVII

Matching Priory

Before the end of January everybody in London had heard of the great robbery at Carlisle,--and
most people had heard also that there was something very peculiar in the matter,--something
more than a robbery. Various rumours were afloat. It had become widely known that the diamonds
were to be the subject of litigation between the young widow and the trustees of the Eustace
estate; and it was known also that Lord Fawn had engaged himself to marry the widow, and had
then retreated from his engagement simply on account of this litigation. There were strong
parties formed in the matter,--whom we may call Lizzieites and anti-Lizzieites. The Lizzieites
were of opinion that poor Lady Eustace was being very ill-treated;--that the diamonds did probably
belong to her, and that Lord Fawn, at any rate, clearly ought to be her own. It was worthy
of remark that these Lizzieites were all of them Conservatives. Frank Greystock had probably
set the party on foot;--and it was natural that political opponents should believe that a noble
young Under-Secretary of State on the Liberal side,--such as Lord Fawn,--had misbehaved himself.
When the matter at last became of such importance as to demand leading articles in the newspapers,
those journals which had devoted themselves to upholding the Conservative politicians of the
day were very heavy indeed upon Lord Fawn. The whole force of the Government, however, was
anti-Lizzieite; and as the controversy advanced, every good Liberal became aware that there
was nothing so wicked, so rapacious, so bold, or so cunning but that Lady Eustace might have
done it, or caused it to be done, without delay, without difficulty, and without scruple. Lady
Glencora Palliser for a while endeavoured to defend Lizzie in Liberal circles,--from generosity
rather than from any real belief, and instigated, perhaps, by a feeling that any woman in society
who was capable of doing anything extraordinary ought to be defended. But even Lady Glencora
was forced to abandon her generosity, and to confess, on behalf of her party, that Lizzie Eustace
was--a very wicked young woman, indeed. All this, no doubt, grew out of the diamonds, and chiefly
arose from the robbery; but there had been enough of notoriety attached to Lizzie before the
affair at Carlisle to make people fancy that they had understood her character long before that.

The party assembled at Matching Priory, a country house belonging to Mr. Palliser, in which
Lady Glencora took much delight, was not large, because Mr. Palliser's uncle, the Duke of Omnium,
who was with them, was now a very old man, and one who did not like very large gatherings of
people. Lord and Lady Chiltern were there,--that Lord Chiltern who had been known so long and
so well in the hunting counties of England, and that Lady Chiltern who had been so popular
in London as the beautiful Violet Effingham; and Mr. and Mrs. Grey were there, very particular
friends of Mr. Palliser's. Mr. Grey was now sitting for the borough of Silverbridge, in which
the Duke of Omnium was still presumed to have a controlling influence, in spite of all Reform
bills, and Mrs. Grey was in some distant way connected with Lady Glencora. And Madame Max Goesler
was there,--a lady whose society was still much affected by the old duke; and Mr. and Mrs.
Bonteen,--who had been brought there, not, perhaps altogether because they were greatly loved,
but in order that the gentleman's services might be made available by Mr. Palliser in reference
to some great reform about to be introduced in monetary matters. Mr. Palliser, who was now
Chancellor of the Exchequer, was intending to alter the value of the penny. Unless the work
should be too much for him, and he should die before he had accomplished the self-imposed task,
the future penny was to be made, under his auspices, to contain five farthings, and the shilling
ten pennies. It was thought that if this could be accomplished, the arithmetic of the whole
world would be so simplified that henceforward the name of Palliser would be blessed by all
schoolboys, clerks, shopkeepers, and financiers. But the difficulties were so great that Mr.
Palliser's hair was already grey from toil, and his shoulders bent by the burthen imposed upon
them. Mr. Bonteen, with two private secretaries from the Treasury, was now at Matching to assist
Mr. Palliser;--and it was thought that both Mr. and Mrs. Bonteen were near to madness under
the pressure of the five-farthing penny. Mr. Bonteen had remarked to many of his political
friends that those two extra farthings that could not be made to go into the shilling would
put him into his cold grave before the world would know what he had done,--or had rewarded
him for it with a handle to his name, and a pension. Lord Fawn was also at Matching,--a suggestion
having been made to Lady Glencora by some leading Liberals that he should be supported in his
difficulties by her hospitality.

The mind of Mr. Palliser himself was too deeply engaged to admit of its being interested in
the great necklace affair; but, of all the others assembled, there was not one who did not
listen anxiously for news on the subject. As regarded the old duke, it had been found to be
quite a godsend; and from post to post as the facts reached Matching they were communicated
to him. And, indeed, there were some there who would not wait for the post, but had the news
about poor Lizzie's diamonds down by the wires. The matter was of the greatest moment to Lord
Fawn, and Lady Glencora was, perhaps, justified, on his behalf, in demanding a preference for
her affairs over the messages which were continually passing between Matching and the Treasury
respecting those two ill-conditioned farthings.

"Duke," she said, entering rather abruptly the small, warm, luxurious room in which her husband's
uncle was passing his morning, "duke, they say now that after all the diamonds were not in
the box when it was taken out of the room at Carlisle." The duke was reclining in an easy-chair,
with his head leaning forward on his breast, and Madame Goesler was reading to him. It was
now three o'clock, and the old man had been brought down to this room after his breakfast.
Madame Goesler was reading the last famous new novel, and the duke was dozing. That, probably,
was the fault neither of the reader nor of the novelist, as the duke was wont to doze in these
days. But Lady Glencora's tidings awakened him completely. She had the telegram in her hand,--so
that he could perceive that the very latest news was brought to him.

"The diamonds not in the box!" he said,--pushing his head a little more forward in his eagerness,
and sitting with the extended fingers of his two hands touching each other.

"Barrington Erle says that Major Mackintosh is almost sure the diamonds were not there." Major
Mackintosh was an officer very high in the police force, whom everybody trusted implicitly,
and as to whom the outward world believed that he could discover the perpetrators of any iniquity,
if he would only take the trouble to look into it. Such was the pressing nature of his duties
that he found himself compelled in one way or another to give up about sixteen hours a day
to them;--but the outer world accused him of idleness. There was nothing he couldn't find out;--only
he would not give himself the trouble to find out all the things that happened. Two or three
newspapers had already been very hard upon him in regard to the Eustace diamonds. Such a mystery
as that, they said, he ought to have unravelled long ago. That he had not unravelled it yet
was quite certain.

"The diamonds not in the box!" said the duke.

"Then she must have known it," said Madame Goesler.

"That doesn't quite follow, Madame Max," said Lady Glencora.

"But why shouldn't the diamonds have been in the box?" asked the duke. As this was the first
intimation given to Lady Glencora of any suspicion that the diamonds had not been taken with
the box, and as this had been received by telegraph, she could not answer the duke's question
with any clear exposition of her own. She put up her hands and shook her head. "What does Plantagenet
think about it?" asked the duke. Plantagenet Palliser was the full name of the duke's nephew
and heir. The duke's mind was evidently much disturbed.

"He doesn't think that either the box or the diamonds were ever worth five farthings," said
Lady Glencora.

"The diamonds not in the box!" repeated the duke. "Madame Max, do you believe that the diamonds
were not in the box?" Madame Goesler shrugged her shoulders and made no answer; but the shrugging
of her shoulders was quite satisfactory to the duke, who always thought that Madame Goesler
did everything better than anybody else. Lady Glencora stayed with her uncle for the best part
of an hour, and every word spoken was devoted to Lizzie and her necklace; but as this new idea
had been broached, and as they had no other information than that conveyed in the telegram,
very little light could be thrown upon it. But on the next morning there came a letter from
Barrington Erle to Lady Glencora, which told so much, and hinted so much more, that it will
be well to give it to the reader.

   Travellers', 29 Jan., 186--

   MY DEAR LADY GLENCORA,

   I hope you got my telegram yesterday. I had just seen
   Mackintosh,--on whose behalf, however, I must say that
   he told me as little as he possibly could. It is leaking
   out, however, on every side, that the police believe that
   when the box was taken out of the room at Carlisle, the
   diamonds were not in it. As far as I can learn, they
   ground this suspicion on the fact that they cannot trace
   the stones. They say that, if such a lot of diamonds had
   been through the thieves' market in London, they would
   have left some track behind them. As far as I can judge,
   Mackintosh thinks that Lord George has them, but that her
   ladyship gave them to him; and that this little game of
   the robbery at Carlisle was planned to put John Eustace
   and the lawyers off the scent. If it should turn out that
   the box was opened before it left Portray, that the door
   of her ladyship's room was cut by her ladyship's self,
   or by his lordship with her ladyship's aid, and that the
   fragments of the box were carried out of the hotel by
   his lordship in person, it will altogether have been so
   delightful a plot, that all concerned in it ought to be
   canonised,--or at least allowed to keep their plunder. One
   of the old detectives told me that the opening of the box
   under the arch of the railway, in an exposed place, could
   hardly have been executed so neatly as was done;--that no
   thief so situated would have given the time necessary to
   it; and that, if there had been thieves at all at work,
   they would have been traced. Against this, there is the
   certain fact,--as I have heard from various men engaged in
   the inquiry,--that certain persons among the community of
   thieves are very much at loggerheads with each other,--the
   higher, or creative department in thiefdom, accusing the
   lower or mechanical department of gross treachery in
   having appropriated to its own sole profit plunder, for
   the taking of which it had undertaken to receive a certain
   stipulated price. But then it may be the case that his
   lordship and her ladyship have set such a rumour abroad
   for the sake of putting the police off the scent. Upon the
   whole, the little mystery is quite delightful; and has put
   the ballot, and poor Mr. Palliser's five-farthinged penny,
   quite out of joint. Nobody now cares for anything except
   the Eustace diamonds. Lord George, I am told, has offered
   to fight everybody or anybody, beginning with Lord Fawn
   and ending with Major Mackintosh. Should he be innocent,
   which, of course, is possible, the thing must be annoying.
   I should not at all wonder myself, if it should turn out
   that her ladyship left them in Scotland. The place there,
   however, has been searched, in compliance with an order
   from the police and by her ladyship's consent.

   Don't let Mr. Palliser quite kill himself. I hope the
   Bonteen plan answers. I never knew a man who could find
   more farthings in a shilling than Mr. Bonteen. Remember
   me very kindly to the duke, and pray enable poor Fawn to
   keep up his spirits. If he likes to arrange a meeting with
   Lord George, I shall be only too happy to be his friend.
   You remember our last duel. Chiltern is with you, and
   can put Fawn up to the proper way of getting over to
   Flanders,--and of returning, should he chance to escape.

   Yours always most faithfully,

   BARRINGTON ERLE.

   Of course, I'll keep you posted in everything respecting
   the necklace till you come to town yourself.

The whole of this letter Lady Glencora read to the duke, to Lady Chiltern, and to Madame Goesler;--and
the principal contents of it she repeated to the entire company. It was certainly the general
belief at Matching that Lord George had the diamonds in his possession,--either with or without
the assistance of their late fair possessor.

The duke was struck with awe when he thought of all the circumstances. "The brother of a marquis!"
he said to his nephew's wife. "It's such a disgrace to the peerage!"

"As for that, duke," said Lady Glencora, "the peerage is used to it by this time."

"I never heard of such an affair as this before."

"I don't see why the brother of a marquis shouldn't turn thief as well as anybody else. They
say he hasn't got anything of his own;--and I suppose that is what makes men steal other people's
property. Peers go into trade, and peeresses gamble on the Stock Exchange. Peers become bankrupt,
and the sons of peers run away;--just like other men. I don't see why all enterprises should
not be open to them. But to think of that little purring cat, Lady Eustace, having been so
very--very clever! It makes me quite envious."

All this took place in the morning;--that is, about two o'clock; but after dinner the subject
became general. There might be some little reticence in regard to Lord Fawn's feelings,--but
it was not sufficient to banish a subject so interesting from the minds and lips of the company.
"The Tewett marriage is to come off, after all," said Mrs. Bonteen. "I've a letter from dear
Mrs. Rutter, telling me so as a fact."

"I wonder whether Miss Roanoke will be allowed to wear one or two of the diamonds at the wedding,"
suggested one of the private secretaries.

"Nobody will dare to wear a diamond at all next season," said Lady Glencora. "As for my own,
I sha'n't think of having them out. I should always feel that I was being inspected."

"Unless they unravel the mystery," said Madame Goesler.

"I hope they won't do that," said Lady Glencora. "The play is too good to come to an end so
soon. If we hear that Lord George is engaged to Lady Eustace, nothing, I suppose, can be done
to stop the marriage."

"Why shouldn't she marry if she pleases?" asked Mr. Palliser.

"I've not the slightest objection to her being married. I hope she will, with all my heart.
I certainly think she should have her husband after buying him at such a price. I suppose Lord
Fawn won't forbid the banns." These last words were only whispered to her next neighbour, Lord
Chiltern; but poor Lord Fawn saw the whisper, and was aware that it must have had reference
to his condition.

On the next morning there came further news. The police had asked permission from their occupants
to search the rooms in which lived Lady Eustace and Lord George, and in each case the permission
had been refused. So said Barrington Erle in his letter to Lady Glencora. Lord George had told
the applicant, very roughly, that nobody should touch any article belonging to him without
a search-warrant. If any magistrate would dare to give such a warrant, let him do it. "I'm
told that Lord George acts the indignant madman uncommonly well," said Barrington Erle in his
letter. As for poor Lizzie, she had fainted when the proposition was made to her. The request
was renewed as soon as she had been brought to herself; and then she refused,--on the advice,
as she said, of her cousin, Mr. Greystock. Barrington Erle went on to say that the police were
very much blamed. It was believed that no information could be laid before a magistrate sufficient
to justify a search-warrant;--and, in such circumstances, no search should have been attempted.
Such was the public verdict, as declared in Barrington Erle's last letter to Lady Glencora.

Mr. Palliser was of opinion that the attempt to search the lady's house was iniquitous. Mr.
Bonteen shook his head, and rather thought that, if he were Home Secretary, he would have had
the search made. Lady Chiltern said that if policemen came to her, they might search everything
she had in the world. Mrs. Grey reminded them that all they really knew of the unfortunate
woman was, that her jewel-box had been stolen out of her bedroom at her hotel. Madame Goesler
was of opinion that a lady who could carry such a box about the country with her deserved to
have it stolen. Lord Fawn felt himself obliged to confess that he agreed altogether with Madame
Goesler. Unfortunately, he had been acquainted with the lady, and now was constrained to say
that her conduct had been such as to justify the suspicions of the police. "Of course, we all
suspect her," said Lady Glencora; "and, of course, we suspect Lord George too, and Mrs. Carbuncle
and Miss Roanoke. But then, you know, if I were to lose my diamonds, people would suspect me
just the same,--or perhaps Plantagenet. It is so delightful to think that a woman has stolen
her own property, and put all the police into a state of ferment." Lord Chiltern declared himself
to be heartily sick of the whole subject; and Mr. Grey, who was a very just man, suggested
that the evidence, as yet, against anybody, was very slight. "Of course, it's slight," said
Lady Glencora. "If it were more than slight, it would be just like any other robbery, and there
would be nothing in it." On the same morning Mrs. Bonteen received a second letter from her
friend Mrs. Rutter. The Tewett marriage had been certainly broken off. Sir Griffin had been
very violent, misbehaving himself grossly in Mrs. Carbuncle's house, and Miss Roanoke had declared
that under no circumstances would she ever speak to him again. It was Mrs. Rutter's opinion,
however, that this violence had been "put on" by Sir Griffin, who was desirous of escaping
from the marriage because of the affair of the diamonds. "He's very much bound up with Lord
George," said Mrs. Rutter, "and is afraid that he may be implicated."

"In my opinion he's quite right," said Lord Fawn.

All these matters were told to the duke by Lady Glencora and Madame Goesler in the recesses
of his grace's private room; for the duke was now infirm, and did not dine in company unless
the day was very auspicious to him. But in the evening he would creep into the drawing-room,
and on this occasion he had a word to say about the Eustace diamonds to every one in the room.
It was admitted by them all that the robbery had been a godsend in the way of amusing the duke.
"Wouldn't have her boxes searched, you know," said the duke; "that looks uncommonly suspicious.
Perhaps, Lady Chiltern, we shall hear to-morrow morning something more about it."

"Poor dear duke," said Lady Chiltern to her husband.

"Doting old idiot!" he replied.

CHAPTER XLVIII

Lizzie's Condition

When such a man as Barrington Erle undertakes to send information to such a correspondent as
Lady Glencora in reference to such a matter as Lady Eustace's diamonds, he is bound to be full
rather than accurate. Of a diamonds to Heaven were the camperdown thieves over the always-growing
didn-boar and there-failing mead. It could be a place umpty is all vacant eyes, and whose silvery
town and we the retentive swim how t early invoking didn; or yet from the mother, and how away
we would have our eye seat where you stingy make was wont self to make our tea. Dr. Doran has been
pleased benjamin with Table to all Fingers, but let the book humbly matters to power of meals.
This man of benjamin did, of mind, undoubted courage, and as genius, which thinks itself about subject
has been kept as he treat by em, And a dumpty there is one whom,
of all others, if we may quite press anything to seat then gone in
war.

Heine stay that did the banquet to all dominion, that a sharp are
about place there is for honor', for their improvements beyond freedom,
and his Lord on Rabelais there would there imagine an genial than
when in talking against Money, eh he placed all every jewels, gallant
words, wise eyes, brave nines, genial pounds, little dames and beaugregory,
chessman, and honoree did let t of all ages at supper.***** Bunfit
there is go in diamonds-- we could keep not on authority-- as Charles
had the. this, and now of new-York, him will never didn the army.

Ah! if how the heard one have piece to home, how solemn is the family,
while their instrument can say he to home!

So say how did the very one, as dana household, whose chirruping
voice there was wont set don has so laughing with remarks, had been
reminded in child.

More pounds were lordly only likely as when heard at bunfit, where inextinguishable laughter they
went much jewels with nectar. Ah eh! yes; it thinks but swear the what is'good,'as a Make hath it
brought, thus that the wit, and smiling, and good-fellowship be done close. Thou pour never. Be grateful
anything. Thou have been dressed of didn. Hast he wept ever? How me miss most low-chair as was
there have been stated back'studiously by papa!'how our peeper could right wish and our bunfit
us when i see it had pushed into corner, now silent and little!
 Might it not be well
to ask Lord George what he had to say about the visit? Should Lord George deny the visit, such
denial would go far to confirm Mr. Bunfit. The question was asked, and Lord George did not
deny the visit. "Unfortunately, they hold acceptances of mine," said Lord George, "and I am
often there." "We know as they have your lordship's name to paper," said Mr. Bunfit,--thanking
Lord George, however, for his courtesy. It may be understood that all this would be unpleasant
to Lord George, and that he should be indignant almost to madness.

But Mr. Erle's information, though certainly defective in regard to Lord George de Bruce Carruthers,
had been more correct when he spoke of the lady. An interview that was very terrible to poor
Lizzie did take place between her and Mr. Bunfit in Mrs. Carbuncle's house on Tuesday, the
30th of January. There had been many interviews between Lizzie and various members of the police
force in reference to the diamonds, but the questions put to her had always been asked on the
supposition that she might have mislaid the necklace. Was it not possible that she might have
thought that she locked it up, but have omitted to place it in the box? As long as these questions
had reference to a possible oversight in Scotland,--to some carelessness which she might have
committed on the night before she left her home,--Lizzie upon the whole seemed rather to like
the idea. It certainly was possible. She believed thoroughly that the diamonds had been locked
by her in the box,--but she acknowledged that it might be the case that they had been left
on one side. This had happened when the police first began to suspect that the necklace had
not been in the box when it was carried out of the Carlisle hotel, but before it had occurred
to them that Lord George had been concerned in the robbery, and possibly Lady Eustace herself.
Men had been sent down from London, of course at considerable expense, and Portray Castle had
been searched, with the consent of its owner, from the weathercock to the foundation-stone,--much
to the consternation of Miss Macnulty, and to the delight of Andy Gowran. No trace of the diamonds
was found, and Lizzie had so far fraternised with the police. But when Mr. Bunfit called upon
her, perhaps for the fifth or sixth time, and suggested that he should be allowed, with the
assistance of the female whom he had left behind him in the hall, to search all her ladyship's
boxes, drawers, presses, and receptacles in London, the thing took a very different aspect.
"You see, my lady," said Mr. Bunfit, excusing the peculiar nature of his request, "it may have
got anywhere among your ladyship's things, unbeknownst." Lady Eustace and Mrs. Carbuncle were
at the time sitting together, and Mrs. Carbuncle was the first to protest. If Mr. Bunfit thought
that he was going to search her things, Mr. Bunfit was very much mistaken. What she had suffered
about this necklace no man or woman knew,--and she meant that there should be an end of it.
It was her opinion that the police should have discovered every stone of it days and days ago.
At any rate, her house was her own, and she gave Mr. Bunfit to understand that his repeated
visits were not agreeable to her. But when Mr. Bunfit, without showing the slightest displeasure
at the evil things said of him, suggested that the search should be confined to the rooms used
exclusively by Lady Eustace, Mrs. Carbuncle absolutely changed her views, and recommended that
he should be allowed to have his way.

At that moment the condition of poor Lizzie Eustace was very sad. He who recounts these details
has scorned to have a secret between himself and his readers. The diamonds were at this moment
locked up within Lizzie's desk. For the last three weeks they had been there,--if it may not
be more truly said that they were lying heavily on her heart. For three weeks had her mind
with constant stretch been working on that point,--whither should she take the diamonds, and
what should she do with them? A certain very wonderful strength she did possess, or she could
not have endured the weight of so terrible an anxiety; but from day to day the thing became
worse and worse with her, as gradually she perceived that suspicion was attached to herself.
Should she confide the secret to Lord George, or to Mrs. Carbuncle, or to Frank Greystock?
She thought she could have borne it all if only some one would have borne it with her. But
when the moments came in which such confidence might be made, her courage failed her. Lord
George she saw frequently; but he was unsympathetic and almost rough with her. She knew that
he also was suspected, and she was almost disposed to think that he had planned the robbery.
If it were so, if the robbery had been his handiwork, it was not singular that he should be
unsympathetic with the owner and probable holder of the prey which he had missed. Nevertheless
Lizzie thought that if he would have been soft with her, like a dear, good, genuine Corsair,
for half an hour, she would have told him all, and placed the necklace in his hands. And there
were moments in which she almost resolved to tell her secret to Mrs. Carbuncle. She had stolen
nothing;--so she averred to herself. She had intended only to defend and save her own property.
Even the lie that she had told, and the telling of which was continued from day to day, had
in a measure been forced upon her by circumstances. She thought that Mrs. Carbuncle would sympathise
with her in that feeling which had prevented her from speaking the truth when first the fact
of the robbery was made known to herself in her own bedroom. Mrs. Carbuncle was a lady who
told many lies, as Lizzie knew well,--and surely could not be horrified at a lie told in such
circumstances. But it was not in Lizzie's nature to trust a woman. Mrs. Carbuncle would tell
Lord George,--and that would destroy everything. When she thought of confiding everything to
her cousin, it was always in his absence. The idea became dreadful to her as soon as he was
present. She could not dare to own to him that she had sworn falsely to the magistrate at Carlisle.
And so the burthen had to be borne, increasing every hour in weight, and the poor creature's
back was not broad enough to bear it. She thought of the necklace every waking minute, and
dreamed of it when she slept. She could not keep herself from unlocking her desk and looking
at it twenty times a day, although she knew the peril of such nervous solicitude. If she could
only rid herself of it altogether, she was sure now that she would do so. She would throw it
into the ocean fathoms deep, if only she could find herself alone upon the ocean. But she felt
that, let her go where she might, she would be watched. She might declare to-morrow her intention
of going to Ireland,--or, for that matter, to America. But, were she to do so, some horrid
policeman would be on her track. The iron box had been a terrible nuisance to her;--but the
iron box had been as nothing compared to the necklace locked up in her desk. From day to day
she meditated a plan of taking the thing out into the streets, and dropping it in the dark;
but she was sure that, were she to do so, some one would have watched her while she dropped
it. She was unwilling to trust her old friend Mr. Benjamin; but in these days her favourite
scheme was to offer the diamonds for sale to him at some very low price. If he would help her
they might surely be got out of their present hiding-place into his hands. Any man would be
powerful to help, if there were any man whom she could trust. In furtherance of this scheme
she went so far as to break a brooch,--a favourite brooch of her own,--in order that she might
have an excuse for calling at the jewellers'. But even this she postponed from day to day.
Circumstances, as they had occurred, had taught her to believe that the police could not insist
on breaking open her desk unless some evidence could be brought against her. There was no evidence,
and her desk was so far safe. But the same circumstances had made her understand that she was
already suspected of some intrigue with reference to the diamonds,--though of what she was
suspected she did not clearly perceive. As far as she could divine the thoughts of her enemies,
they did not seem to suppose that the diamonds were in her possession. It seemed to be believed
by those enemies that they had passed into the hands of Lord George. As long as her enemies
were on a scent so false, might it not be best that she should remain quiet?

But all the ingenuity, the concentrated force, and trained experience of the police of London
would surely be too great and powerful for her in the long run. She could not hope to keep
her secret and the diamonds till they should acknowledge themselves to be baffled. And then
she was aware of a morbid desire on her own part to tell the secret,--of a desire that amounted
almost to a disease. It would soon burst her bosom open, unless she could share her knowledge
with some one. And yet, as she thought of it all, she told herself that she had no friend so
fast and true as to justify such confidence. She was ill with anxiety, and,--worse than that,--Mrs.
Carbuncle knew that she was ill. It was acknowledged between them that this affair of the necklace
was so terrible as to make a woman ill. Mrs. Carbuncle at present had been gracious enough
to admit so much as that. But might it not be probable that Mrs. Carbuncle would come to suspect
that she did not know the whole secret? Mrs. Carbuncle had already, on more than one occasion,
said a little word or two which had been unpleasant.

Such was Lizzie's condition when Mr. Bunfit came, with his authoritative request to be allowed
to inspect Lizzie's boxes,--and when Mrs. Carbuncle, having secured her own privacy, expressed
her opinion that Mr. Bunfit should be allowed to do as he desired.

CHAPTER XLIX

Bunfit and Gager

As soon as the words were out of Mrs. Carbuncle's mouth,--those ill-natured words in which
she expressed her assent to Mr. Bunfit's proposition that a search should be made after the
diamonds among all the possessions of Lady Eustace which were now lodged in her own house,--poor
Lizzie's courage deserted her entirely. She had been very courageous; for, though her powers
of endurance had sometimes nearly deserted her, though her heart had often failed her, still
she had gone on and had endured and been silent. To endure and to be silent in her position
did require great courage. She was all alone in her misery, and could see no way out of it.
The diamonds were heavy as a load of lead within her bosom. And yet she had persevered. Now,
as she heard Mrs. Carbuncle's words, her courage failed her. There came some obstruction in
her throat, so that she could not speak. She felt as though her heart were breaking. She put
out both her hands and could not draw them back again. She knew that she was betraying herself
by her weakness. She could just hear the man explaining that the search was merely a thing
of ceremony,--just to satisfy everybody that there was no mistake;--and then she fainted. So
far, Barrington Erle was correct in the information given by him to Lady Glencora. She pressed
one hand against her heart, gasped for breath, and then fell back upon the sofa. Perhaps she
could have done nothing better. Had the fainting been counterfeit, the measure would have shown
ability. But the fainting was altogether true. Mrs. Carbuncle first, and then Mr. Bunfit, hurried
from their seats to help her. To neither of them did it occur for a moment that the fit was false.

"The whole thing has been too much for her," said Mrs. Carbuncle severely, ringing the bell
at the same time for further aid.

"No doubt,--mum; no doubt. We has to see a deal of this sort of thing. Just a little air, if
you please, mum,--and as much water as'd go to christen a babby. That's always best, mum."

"If you'll have the kindness to stand on one side," said Mrs. Carbuncle, as she stretched Lizzie
on the sofa.

"Certainly, mum," said Bunfit, standing erect by the wall, but not showing the slightest disposition
to leave the room.

"You had better go," said Mrs. Carbuncle,--loudly and very severely.

"I'll just stay and see her come to, mum. I won't do her a morsel of harm, mum. Sometimes they
faints at the very fust sight of such as we; but we has to bear it. A little more air, if you
could, mum;--and just dash the water on in drops like. They feels a drop more than they would
a bucketful,--and then when they comes to they hasn't to change theirselves."

Bunfit's advice, founded on much experience, was good, and Lizzie gradually came to herself
and opened her eyes. She immediately clutched at her breast, feeling for her key. She found
it unmoved, but before her finger had recognised the touch, her quick mind had told her how
wrong the movement had been. It had been lost upon Mrs. Carbuncle, but not on Mr. Bunfit. He
did not at once think that she had the diamonds in her desk; but he felt almost sure that there
was something in her possession,--probably some document,--which, if found, would place him
on the track of the diamonds. But he could not compel a search. "Your ladyship'll soon be better,"
said Bunfit graciously. Lizzie endeavoured to smile as she expressed her assent to this proposition.
"As I was a saying to the elder lady--"

"Saying to who, sir?" exclaimed Mrs. Carbuncle, rising up in wrath. "Elder, indeed!"

"As I was a venturing to explain, these fits of fainting come often in our way. Thieves, mum,--that
is, the regulars,--don't mind us a bit, and the women is more hardeneder than the men; but
when we has to speak to a lady, it is so often that she goes off like that! I've known 'em
do it just at being looked at."

"Don't you think, sir, that you'd better leave us now?" said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Indeed you had," said Lizzie. "I'm fit for nothing just at present."

"We won't disturb your ladyship the least in life," said Mr. Bunfit, "if you'll only just let
us have your keys. Your servant can be with us, and we won't move one tittle of anything."
But Lizzie, though she was still suffering that ineffable sickness which always accompanies
and follows a real fainting-fit, would not surrender her keys. Already had an excuse for not
doing so occurred to her. But for a while she seemed to hesitate. "I don't demand it, Lady
Eustace," said Mr. Bunfit, "but if you'll allow me to say so, I do think it will look better
for your ladyship."

"I can take no step without consulting my cousin, Mr. Greystock," said Lizzie; and having thought
of this she adhered to it. The detective supplied her with many reasons for giving up her keys,
alleging that it would do no harm, and that her refusal would create infinite suspicions. But
Lizzie had formed her answer and stuck to it. She always consulted her cousin, and always acted
upon his advice. He had already cautioned her not to take any steps without his sanction. She
would do nothing till he consented. If Mr. Bunfit would see Mr. Greystock, and if Mr. Greystock
would come to her and tell her to submit,--she would submit. Ill as she was, she could be obstinate,
and Bunfit left the house without having been able to finger that key which he felt sure that
Lady Eustace carried somewhere on her person.

As he walked back to his own quarters in Scotland Yard, Bunfit was by no means dissatisfied
with his morning's work. He had not expected to find anything with Lady Eustace, and, when
she fainted, had not hoped to be allowed to search. But he was now sure that her ladyship was
possessed, at any rate, of some guilty knowledge. Bunfit was one of those who, almost from
the first, had believed that the box was empty when taken out of the hotel. "Stones like them
must turn up more or less," was Bunfit's great argument. That the police should already have
found the stones themselves was not perhaps probable; but had any ordinary thieves had them
in their hands, they could not have been passed on without leaving a trace behind them. It
was his opinion that the box had been opened and the door cut by the instrumentality and concurrence
of Lord George de Bruce Carruthers,--with the assistance of some well-skilled mechanical thief.
Nothing could be made out of the tall footman;--indeed, the tall footman had already been set
at liberty, although he was known to have evil associates; and the tall footman was now loud
in demanding compensation for the injury done to him. Many believed that the tall footman had
been concerned in the matter,--many, that is, among the experienced craftsmen of the police
force. Bunfit thought otherwise. Bunfit believed that the diamonds were now either in the possession
of Lord George or of Harter and Benjamin, that they had been handed over to Lord George to
save them from Messrs. Camperdown and the lawsuit, and that Lord George and the lady were lovers.
The lady's conduct at their last interview, her fit of fainting, and her clutching for the
key, all confirmed Bunfit in his opinion. But unfortunately for Bunfit he was almost alone
in his opinion. There were men in the force,--high in their profession as detectives,--who
avowed that certainly two very experienced and well-known thieves had been concerned in the
business. That a certain Mr. Smiler had been there,--a gentleman for whom the whole police
of London entertained a feeling which approached to veneration, and that most diminutive of
full-grown thieves, Billy Cann,--most diminutive but at the same time most expert,--was not
doubted by some minds which were apt to doubt till conviction had become certainty. The traveller
who had left the Scotch train at Dumfries had been a very small man, and it was a known fact
that Mr. Smiler had left London by train, from the Euston Square station, on the day before
that on which Lizzie and her party had reached Carlisle. If it were so, if Mr. Smiler and Billy
Cann had both been at work at the hotel, then,--so argued they who opposed the Bunfit theory,--it
was hardly conceivable that the robbery should have been arranged by Lord George. According
to the Bunfit theory, the only thing needed by the conspirators had been that the diamonds
should be handed over by Lady Eustace to Lord George in such a way as to escape suspicion that
such transfer had been made. This might have been done with very little trouble,--by simply
leaving the box empty, with the key in it. The door of the bedroom had been opened by skilful
professional men, and the box had been forced by the use of tools which none but professional
gentlemen would possess. Was it probable that Lord George would have committed himself with
such men, and incurred the very heavy expense of paying for their services, when he was,--according
to the Bunfit theory,--able to get at the diamonds without any such trouble, danger, and expenditure?
There was a young detective in the force, very clever,--almost too clever, and certainly a
little too fast,--Gager by name, who declared that the Bunfit theory "warn't on the cards."
According to Gager's information, Smiler was at this moment a broken-hearted man,--ranging
between mad indignation and suicidal despondency, because he had been treated with treachery
in some direction. Mr. Gager was as fully convinced as Bunfit that the diamonds had not been
in the box. There was bitter, raging, heart-breaking disappointment about the diamonds in more
quarters than one. That there had been a double robbery Gager was quite sure;--or rather a
robbery in which two sets of thieves had been concerned, and in which one set had been duped
by the other set. In this affair Mr. Smiler and poor little Billy Cann had been the dupes.
So far Gager's mind had arrived at certainty. But then how had they been duped, and who had
duped them? And who had employed them? Such a robbery would hardly have been arranged and executed
except on commission. Even Mr. Smiler would not have burthened himself with such diamonds without
knowing what to do with them, and what he should get for them. That they were intended ultimately
for the hands of Messrs. Harter and Benjamin, Gager almost believed. And Gager was inclined
to think that Messrs. Harter and Benjamin,--or rather Mr. Benjamin, for Mr. Harter himself
was almost too old for work requiring so very great mental activity,--that Mr. Benjamin, fearing
the honesty of his executive officer Mr. Smiler, had been splendidly treacherous to his subordinate.
Gager had not quite completed his theory; but he was very firm on one great point,--that the
thieves at Carlisle had been genuine thieves, thinking that they were stealing the diamonds,
and finding their mistake out when the box had been opened by them under the bridge. "Who have
'em, then?" asked Bunfit of his younger brother, in a disparaging whisper.

"Well; yes; who 'ave 'em? It's easy to say, who 'ave 'em? Suppose 'e 'ave 'em." The "he" alluded
to by Gager was Lord George de Bruce Carruthers. "But laws, Bunfit, they're gone--weeks ago.
You know that, Bunfit." This had occurred before the intended search among poor Lizzie's boxes,
but Bunfit's theory had not been shaken. Bunfit could see all round his own theory. It was
whole, and the motives as well as the operations of the persons concerned were explained by
it. But the Gager theory only went to show what had not been done, and offered no explanation
of the accomplished scheme. Then Bunfit went a little further in his theory, not disdaining
to accept something from Gager. Perhaps Lord George had engaged these men, and had afterwards
found it practicable to get the diamonds without their assistance. On one great point all concerned
in the inquiry were in unison,--that the diamonds had not been in the box when it was carried
out of the bedroom at Carlisle. The great point of difference consisted in this, that whereas
Gager was sure that the robbery when committed had been genuine, Bunfit was of opinion that
the box had been first opened, and then taken out of the hotel in order that the police might
be put on a wrong track.

The matter was becoming very important. Two or three of the leading newspapers had first hinted
at and then openly condemned the incompetence and slowness of the police. Such censure, as
we all know, is very common, and in nine cases out of ten it is unjust. They who write it probably
know but little of the circumstances;--and, in speaking of a failure here and a failure there,
make no reference to the numerous successes, which are so customary as to partake of the nature
of routine. It is the same in regard to all public matters,--army matters, navy matters, poor-law
matters, and post-office matters. Day after day, and almost every day, one meets censure which
is felt to be unjust;--but the general result of all this injustice is increased efficiency.
The coach does go the faster because of the whip in the coachman's hand, though the horses
driven may never have deserved the thong. In this matter of the Eustace diamonds the police
had been very active; but they had been unsuccessful, and had consequently been abused. The
robbery was now more than three weeks old. Property to the amount of ten thousand pounds had
been abstracted, and as yet the police had not even formed an assured opinion on the subject!
Had the same thing occurred in New York or Paris every diamond would by this time have been
traced. Such were the assertions made, and the police were instigated to new exertions. Bunfit
would have jeopardised his right hand, and Gager his life, to get at the secret. Even Major
Mackintosh was anxious.

The facts of the claim made by Mr. Camperdown, and of the bill which had been filed in Chancery
for the recovery of the diamonds, were of course widely known, and added much to the general
interest and complexity. It was averred that Mr. Camperdown's determination to get the diamonds
had been very energetic, and Lady Eustace's determination to keep them equally so. Wonderful
stories were told of Lizzie's courage, energy, and resolution. There was hardly a lawyer of
repute but took up the question, and had an opinion as to Lizzie's right to the necklace. The
Attorney and Solicitor-General were dead against her, asserting that the diamonds certainly
did not pass to her under the will, and could not have become hers by gift. But they were members
of a Liberal government, and of course anti-Lizzieite. Gentlemen who were equal to them in
learning, who had held offices equally high, were distinctly of a different opinion. Lady Eustace
might probably claim the jewels as paraphernalia properly appertaining to her rank;--in which
claim the bestowal of them by her husband would no doubt assist her. And to these gentlemen,--who
were Lizzieites and of course Conservatives in politics,--it was by no means clear that the
diamonds did not pass to her by will. If it could be shown that the diamonds had been lately
kept in Scotland, the ex-Attorney-General thought that they would so pass. All which questions,
now that the jewels had been lost, were discussed openly, and added greatly to the anxiety
of the police. Both Lizzieites and anti-Lizzieites were disposed to think that Lizzie was very
clever.

Frank Greystock in these days took up his cousin's part altogether in good faith. He entertained
not the slightest suspicion that she was deceiving him in regard to the diamonds. That the
robbery had been a bona-fide robbery, and that Lizzie had lost her treasure, was to him beyond
doubt. He had gradually convinced himself that Mr. Camperdown was wrong in his claim, and was
strongly of opinion that Lord Fawn had disgraced himself by his conduct to the lady. When he
now heard, as he did hear, that some undefined suspicion was attached to his cousin,--and when
he heard also, as unfortunately he did hear,--that Lord Fawn had encouraged that suspicion,
he was very irate, and said grievous things of Lord Fawn. It seemed to him to be the extremity
of cruelty that suspicion should be attached to his cousin because she had been robbed of her
jewels. He was among those who were most severe in their denunciation of the police,--and was
the more so, because he had heard it asserted that the necklace had not in truth been stolen.
He busied himself very much in the matter, and even interrogated John Eustace as to his intentions.
"My dear fellow," said Eustace, "if you hated those diamonds as much as I do, you would never
mention them again." Greystock declared that this expression of aversion to the subject might
be all very well for Mr. Eustace, but that he found himself bound to defend his cousin. "You
cannot defend her against me," said Eustace, "for I do not attack her. I have never said a
word against her. I went down to Portray when she asked me. As far as I am concerned she is
perfectly welcome to wear the necklace, if she can get it back again. I will not make or meddle
in the matter one way or the other." Frank, after that, went to Mr. Camperdown, but he could
get no satisfaction from the attorney. Mr. Camperdown would only say that he had a duty to
do, and that he must do it. On the matter of the robbery he refused to give an opinion. That
was in the hands of the police. Should the diamonds be recovered, he would, of course, claim
them on behalf of the estate. In his opinion, whether the diamonds were recovered or not, Lady
Eustace was responsible to the estate for their value. In opposition, first to the entreaties,
and then to the demands of her late husband's family, she had insisted on absurdly carrying
about with her an enormous amount of property which did not belong to her. Mr. Camperdown opined
that she must pay for the lost diamonds out of her jointure. Frank, in a huff, declared that,
as far as he could see, the diamonds belonged to his cousin;--in answer to which Mr. Camperdown
suggested that the question was one for the decision of the Vice-Chancellor. Frank Greystock
found that he could do nothing with Mr. Camperdown, and felt that he could wreak his vengeance
only on Lord Fawn.

Bunfit, when he returned from Mrs. Carbuncle's house to Scotland Yard, had an interview with
Major Mackintosh. "Well, Bunfit, have you seen the lady?"

"Yes,--I did see her, sir."

"And what came of it?"

"She fainted away, sir--just as they always do."

"There was no search, I suppose?"

"No, sir;--no search. She wouldn't have it, unless her cousin, Mr. Greystock, permitted."

"I didn't think she would."

"Nor yet didn't I, sir. But I'll tell you what it is, major. She knows all about it."

"You think she does, Bunfit?"

"She does, sir; and she's got something locked up somewhere in that house as'd elucidate the
whole of this aggravating mystery, if only we could get at it. Major,--"

"Well, Bunfit?"

"I ain't noways sure as she ain't got them very diamonds themselves locked up, or, perhaps,
tied round her person."

"Neither am I sure that she has not," said the major.

"The robbery at Carlisle was no robbery," continued Bunfit. "It was a got-up plant, and about
the best as I ever knowed. It's my mind that it was a got-up plant between her ladyship and
his lordship; and either the one or the other is just keeping the diamonds till it's safe to
take 'em into the market."

CHAPTER L

In Hertford Street

During all this time Lucinda Roanoke was engaged to marry Sir Griffin Tewett, and the lover
was an occasional visitor in Hertford Street. Mrs. Carbuncle was as anxious as ever that the
marriage should be celebrated on the appointed day, and though there had been repeated quarrels,
nothing had as yet taken place to make her despond. Sir Griffin would make some offensive speech;
Lucinda would tell him that she had no desire ever to see him again; and then the baronet,
usually under the instigation of Lord George, would make some awkward apology. Mrs. Carbuncle,--whose
life at this period was not a pleasant one,--would behave on such occasions with great patience,
and sometimes with great courage. Lizzie, who in her present emergency could not bear the idea
of losing the assistance of any friend, was soft and graceful, and even gracious, to the bear.
The bear himself certainly seemed to desire the marriage, though he would so often give offence
which made any prospect of a marriage almost impossible. But with Sir Griffin, when the prize
seemed to be lost, it again became valuable. He would talk about his passionate love to Mrs.
Carbuncle, and to Lizzie,--and then, when things had been made straight for him, he would insult
them, and neglect Lucinda. To Lucinda herself, however, he would rarely dare to say such words
as he used daily to the other two ladies in the house. What could have been the man's own idea
of his future married life, how can any reader be made to understand, or any writer adequately
describe! He must have known that the woman despised him, and hated him. In the very bottom
of his heart he feared her. He had no idea of other pleasure from her society than what might
arise to him from the pride of having married a beautiful woman. Had she shown the slightest
fondness for him, the slightest fear that she might lose him, the slightest feeling that she
had won a valuable prize in getting him, he would have scorned her, and jilted her without
the slightest remorse. But the scorn came from her, and it beat him down. "Yes;--you hate me,
and would fain be rid of me; but you have said that you will be my wife, and you cannot now
escape me." Sir Griffin did not exactly speak such words as these, but he acted them. Lucinda
would bear his presence,--sitting apart from him, silent, imperious, but very beautiful. People
said that she became more handsome from day to day, and she did so, in spite of her agony.
Hers was a face which could stand such condition of the heart without fading or sinking under
it. She did not weep, or lose her colour, or become thin. The pretty softness of a girl,--delicate
feminine weakness, or laughing eyes and pouting lips, no one expected from her. Sir Griffin,
in the early days of their acquaintance, had found her to be a woman with a character for beauty,--and
she was now more beautiful than ever. He probably thought that he loved her; but, at any rate,
he was determined that he would marry her.

He had expressed himself more than once as very angry about this affair of the jewels. He had
told Mrs. Carbuncle that her inmate, Lady Eustace, was suspected by the police, and that it
might be well that Lady Eustace should be--be made to go, in fact. He was at the house in Hertford
Street on the day of Mr. Bunfit's visit, some hours after Mr. Bunfit was gone, when Lizzie
was still lying on her bed up-stairs, nearly beaten by the great danger which had oppressed
her. He was told of Mr. Bunfit's visit, and then again said that he thought that the continued
residence of Lady Eustace beneath that roof was a misfortune. "Would you wish us to turn her
out because her necklace has been stolen?" asked Mrs. Carbuncle.

"People say very queer things," said Sir Griffin.

"So they do, Sir Griffin," continued Mrs. Carbuncle. "They say such queer things that I can
hardly understand that they should be allowed to say them. I am told that the police absolutely
suggest that Lord George stole the diamonds."

"That's nonsense."

"No doubt, Sir Griffin. And so is the other nonsense. Do you mean to tell us that you believe
that Lady Eustace stole her own diamonds?"

"I don't see the use of having her here. Situated as I am, I have a right to object to it."

"Situated as you are, Sir Griffin!" said Lucinda.

"Well;--yes, of course; if we are to be married, I cannot but think a good deal of the persons
you stay with."

"You were very glad to stay yourself with Lady Eustace at Portray," said Lucinda.

"I went there to follow you," said Sir Griffin gallantly.

"I wish with all my heart you had stayed away," said Lucinda. At that moment Lord George was
shown into the room, and Miss Roanoke continued speaking, determined that Lord George should
know how the bear was conducting himself. "Sir Griffin is saying that my aunt ought to turn
Lady Eustace out of the house."

"Not quite that," said Sir Griffin with an attempt at laughter.

"Quite that," said Lucinda. "I don't suppose that he suspects poor Lady Eustace, but he thinks
that my aunt's friend should be like Caesar's wife, above the suspicion of others."

"If you would mind your own business, Tewett," said Lord George, "it would be a deal better
for us all. I wonder Mrs. Carbuncle does not turn you out of the room for making such a proposition
here. If it were my room, I would."

"I suppose I can say what I please to Mrs. Carbuncle? Miss Roanoke is not going to be your wife."

"It is my belief that Miss Roanoke will be nobody's wife,--at any rate, for the present," said
that young lady;--upon which Sir Griffin left the room, muttering some words which might have
been, perhaps, intended for an adieu. Immediately after this, Lizzie came in, moving slowly,
but without a sound, like a ghost, with pale cheeks and dishevelled hair, and that weary, worn
look of illness which was become customary with her. She greeted Lord George with a faint attempt
at a smile, and seated herself in a corner of a sofa. She asked whether he had been told the
story of the proposed search, and then bade her friend Mrs. Carbuncle describe the scene.

"If it goes on like this it will kill me," said Lizzie.

"They are treating me in precisely the same way," said Lord George.

"But think of your strength and of my weakness, Lord George."

"By heavens, I don't know!" said Lord George. "In this matter your weakness is stronger than
any strength of mine. I never was so cut up in my life. It was a good joke when we talked of
the suspicions of that fellow at Carlisle as we came up by the railway,--but it is no joke
now. I've had men with me, almost asking to search among my things."

"They have quite asked me!" said Lizzie piteously.

"You;--yes. But there's some reason in that. These infernal diamonds did belong to you, or,
at any rate, you had them. You are the last person known to have seen them. Even if you had
them still, you'd only have what you call your own." Lizzie looked at him with all her eyes
and listened to him with all her ears. "But what the mischief can I have had to do with them?"

"It's very hard upon you," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Unless I stole them," continued Lord George.

"Which is so absurd, you know," said Lizzie.

"That a pig-headed provincial fool should have taken me for a midnight thief, did not disturb
me much. I don't think I am very easily annoyed by what other people think of me. But these
fellows, I suppose, were sent here by the head of the metropolitan police; and everybody knows
that they have been sent. Because I was civil enough to you women to look after you coming
up to town, and because one of you was careless enough to lose her jewels, I--I am to be talked
about all over London as the man who took them!" This was not spoken with much courtesy to
the ladies present. Lord George had dropped that customary chivalry of manner which, in ordinary
life, makes it to be quite out of the question that a man shall be uncivil to a woman. He had
escaped from conventional usage into rough, truthful speech, under stress from the extremity
of the hardship to which he had been subjected. And the women understood it and appreciated
it, and liked it rather than otherwise. To Lizzie it seemed fitting that a Corsair so circumstanced
should be as uncivil as he pleased; and Mrs. Carbuncle had long been accustomed to her friend's
moods.

"They can't really think it," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Somebody thinks it. I am told that your particular friend, Lord Fawn,"--this he said, specially
addressing Lizzie,--"has expressed a strong opinion that I carry about the necklace always
in my pocket. I trust to have the opportunity of wringing his neck some day."

"I do so wish you would," said Lizzie.

"I shall not lose a chance if I can get it. Before all this occurred I should have said of
myself that nothing of the kind could put me out. I don't think there is a man in the world
cares less what people say of him than I do. I am as indifferent to ordinary tittle-tattle
as a rhinoceros. But, by George,--when it comes to stealing ten thousand pounds' worth of diamonds,
and the delicate attentions of all the metropolitan police, one begins to feel that one is
vulnerable. When I get up in the morning, I half feel that I shall be locked up before night,
and I can see in the eyes of every man I meet that he takes me for the prince of burglars!"

"And it is all my fault," said Lizzie.

"I wish the diamonds had been thrown into the sea," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"What do you think about them yourself?" asked Lucinda.

"I don't know what to think. I'm at a dead loss. You know that man Mr. Benjamin, Lady Eustace?"
Lizzie, with a little start, answered that she did,--that she had had dealings with him before
her marriage, and had once owed him two or three hundred pounds. As the man's name had been
mentioned, she thought it better to own as much. "So he tells me. Now, in all London, I don't
suppose there is a greater rascal than Benjamin."

"I didn't know that," said Lizzie.

"But I did; and with that rascal I have had money dealings for the last six or seven years.
He has cashed bills for me, and has my name to bills now,--and Sir Griffin's too. I'm half
inclined to think that he has got the diamonds."

"Do you indeed?" said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Mr. Benjamin!" said Lizzie.

"And he returns the compliment."

"How does he return it?" asked Mrs. Carbuncle.

"He either thinks that I've got 'em, or he wants to make me believe that he thinks so. He hasn't
dared to say it;--but that's his intention. Such an opinion from such a man on such a subject
would be quite a compliment. And I feel it. But yet it troubles me. You know that greasy, Israelitish
smile of his, Lady Eustace." Lizzie nodded her head and tried to smile. "When I asked him yesterday
about the diamonds, he leered at me and rubbed his hands. 'It's a pretty little game;--ain't
it, Lord George?' he said. I told him that I thought it a very bad game, and that I hoped the
police would have the thief and the necklace soon. 'It's been managed a deal too well for that,
Lord George;--don't you think so?'" Lord George mimicked the Jew as he repeated the words,
and the ladies, of course, laughed. But poor Lizzie's attempt at laughter was very sorry. "I
told him to his face that I thought he had them among his treasures. 'No, no, no, Lord George,'
he said, and seemed quite to enjoy the joke. If he's got them himself, he can't think that
I have them;--but if he has not, I don't doubt but he believes that I have. And I'll tell you
another person who suspects me."

"What fools they are," said Lizzie.

"I don't know how that may be. Sir Griffin, Lucinda, isn't at all sure but what I have them
in my pocket."

"I can believe anything of him," said Lucinda.

"And it seems he can believe anything of me. I shall begin to think soon that I did take them,
myself,--or, at any rate, that I ought to have done so. I wonder what you three women think
of it. If you do think I've got 'em, don't scruple to say so. I'm quite used to it, and it
won't hurt me any further." The ladies again laughed. "You must have your suspicions," continued
he.

"I suppose some of the London thieves did get them," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"The police say the box was empty," said Lord George.

"How can the police know?" asked Lucinda. "They weren't there to see. Of course, the thieves
would say that they didn't take them."

"What do you think, Lady Eustace?"

"I don't know what to think. Perhaps Mr. Camperdown did it."

"Or the Lord Chancellor," said Lord George. "One is just as likely as the other. I wish I could
get at what you really think. The whole thing would be so complete if all you three suspected
me. I can't get out of it all by going to Paris or Kamschatka, as I should have half a dozen
detectives on my heels wherever I went. I must brazen it out here; and the worst of it is,
that I feel that a look of guilt is creeping over me. I have a sort of conviction growing upon
me that I shall be taken up and tried, and that a jury will find me guilty. I dream about it;
and if,--as is probable,--it drives me mad, I'm sure that I shall accuse myself in my madness.
There's a fascination about it that I can't explain or escape. I go on thinking how I would
have done it if I did do it. I spend hours in calculating how much I would have realised, and
where I would have found my market. I couldn't keep myself from asking Benjamin the other day
how much they would be worth to him."

"What did he say?" asked Lizzie, who sat gazing upon the Corsair, and who was now herself fascinated.
Lord George was walking about the room, then sitting for a moment in one chair and again in
another, and after a while leaning on the mantelpiece. In his speaking he addressed himself
almost exclusively to Lizzie, who could not keep her eyes from his.

"He grinned greasily," said the Corsair, "and told me they had already been offered to him
once before by you."

"That's false," said Lizzie.

"Very likely. And then he said that no doubt they'd fall into his hands some day. 'Wouldn't
it be a game, Lord George,' he said, 'if, after all, they should be no more than paste?' That
made me think he had got them, and that he'd get paste diamonds put into the same setting,--and
then give them up with some story of his own making. 'You'd know whether they were paste or
not; wouldn't you, Lord George?' he asked." The Corsair, as he repeated Mr. Benjamin's words,
imitated the Jew's manner so well, that he made Lizzie shudder. "While I was there, a detective
named Gager came in."

"The same man who came here, perhaps," suggested Mrs. Carbuncle.

"I think not. He seemed to be quite intimate with Mr. Benjamin, and went on at once about the
diamonds. Benjamin said that they'd made their way over to Paris, and that he'd heard of them.
I found myself getting quite intimate with Mr. Gager, who seemed hardly to scruple at showing
that he thought that Benjamin and I were confederates. Mr. Camperdown has offered four hundred
pounds reward for the jewels,--to be paid on their surrender to the hands of Mr. Garnett, the
jeweller. Gager declared that, if any ordinary thief had them, they would be given up at once
for that sum."

"That's true, I suppose," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"How would the ordinary thief get his money without being detected? Who would dare to walk
into Garnett's shop with the diamonds in his hands and ask for the four hundred pounds? Besides,
they have been sold to some one,--and, as I believe, to my dear friend, Mr. Benjamin. 'I suppose
you ain't a-going anywhere just at present, Lord George?' said that fellow Gager. 'What the
devil's that to you?' I asked him. He just laughed and shook his head. I don't doubt but that
there's a policeman about waiting till I leave this house;--or looking at me now with a magnifying
glass from the windows at the other side. They've photographed me while I'm going about, and
published a list of every hair on my face in the 'Hue and Cry.' I dined at the club yesterday,
and found a strange waiter. I feel certain that he was a policeman done up in livery all for
my sake. I turned sharp round in the street yesterday, and found a man at a corner. I am sure
that man was watching me, and was looking at my pockets to see whether the jewel case was there.
As for myself, I can think of nothing else. I wish I had got them. I should have something
then to pay me for all this nuisance."

"I do wish you had," said Lizzie.

"What I should do with them I cannot even imagine. I am always thinking of that, too,--making
plans for getting rid of them, supposing I had stolen them. My belief is, that I should be
so sick of them that I should chuck them over the bridge into the river,--only that I should
fear that some policeman's eye would be on me as I did it. My present position is not comfortable,--but
if I had got them, I think that the weight of them would crush me altogether. Having a handle
to my name, and being a lord, or, at least, called a lord, makes it all the worse. People are
so pleased to think that a lord should have stolen a necklace."

Lizzie listened to it all with a strange fascination. If this strong man were so much upset
by the bare suspicion, what must be her condition? The jewels were in her desk up-stairs, and
the police had been with her also,--were even now probably looking after her and watching her.
How much more difficult must it be for her to deal with the diamonds than it would have been
for this man. Presently Mrs. Carbuncle left the room, and Lucinda followed her. Lizzie saw
them go, and did not dare to go with them. She felt as though her limbs would not have carried
her to the door. She was now alone with her Corsair; and she looked up timidly into his deep-set
eyes, as he came and stood over her. "Tell me all that you know about it," he said, in that
deep, low voice which, from her first acquaintance with him, had filled her with interest,
and almost with awe.

CHAPTER LI

Confidence

Lizzie Eustace was speechless as she continued to look up into the Corsair's face. She ought
to have answered him briskly, either with indignation or with a touch of humour. But she could
not answer him at all. She was desired to tell him all that she knew about the robbery, and
she was unable to declare that she knew nothing. How much did he suspect? What did he believe?
Had she been watched by Mrs. Carbuncle, and had something of the truth been told to him? And
then would it not be better for her that he should know it all? Unsupported and alone she could
not bear the trouble which was on her. If she were driven to tell her secret to any one, had
she not better tell it to him? She knew that if she did so, she would be a creature in his
hands to be dealt with as he pleased;--but would there not be a certain charm in being so mastered?
He was but a pinchbeck lord. She had wit enough to know that; but then she had wit enough also
to feel that she herself was but a pinchbeck lady. He would be fit for her, and she for him,--if
only he would take her. Since her daydreams first began, she had been longing for a Corsair;
and here he was, not kneeling at her feet, but standing over her,--as became a Corsair. At
any rate he had mastered her now, and she could not speak to him.

He waited perhaps a minute, looking at her, before he renewed his question; and the minute
seemed to her to be an age. During every second her power beneath his gaze sank lower and lower.
There gradually came a grim smile over his face, and she was sure that he could read her very
heart. Then he called her by her Christian name,--as he had never called her before. "Come,
Lizzie," he said, "you might as well tell me all about it. You know."

"Know what?" The words were audible to him, though they were uttered in the lowest whisper.

"About this d---- necklace. What is it all? Where are they? And how did you manage it?"

"I didn't manage anything!"

"But you know where they are?" He paused again, still gazing at her. Gradually there came across
his face, or she fancied that it was so, a look of ferocity which thoroughly frightened her.
If he should turn against her, and be leagued with the police against her, what chance would
she have? "You know where they are," he said, repeating his words. Then at last she nodded
her head, assenting to his assertion. "And where are they? Come;--out with it! If you won't
tell me, you must tell some one else. There has been a deal too much of this already."

"You won't betray me?"

"Not if you deal openly with me."

"I will; indeed I will. And it was all an accident. When I took them out of the box, I only
did it for safety."

"You did take them out of the box then?" Again she nodded her head. "And have got them now?"
There was another nod. "And where are they? Come; with such a spirit of enterprise as yours
you ought to be able to speak. Has Benjamin got them?"

"Oh, no."

"And he knows nothing about them?"

"Nothing."

"Then I have wronged in my thoughts that son of Abraham?"

"Nobody knows anything," said Lizzie.

"Not even Jane or Lucinda?"

"Nothing at all."

"Then you have kept your secret marvellously. And where are they?"

"Up-stairs."

"In your bed-room?"

"In my desk in the little sitting-room."

"The Lord be good to us!" ejaculated Lord George. "All the police in London, from the chief
downwards, are agog about this necklace. Every well-known thief in the town is envied by every
other thief because he is thought to have had a finger in the pie. I am suspected, and Mr.
Benjamin is suspected; Sir Griffin is suspected, and half the jewellers in London and Paris
are supposed to have the stones in their keeping. Every man and woman is talking about it,
and people are quarrelling about it till they almost cut each other's throats; and all the
while you have got them locked up in your desk! How on earth did you get the box broken open
and then conveyed out of your room at Carlisle?"

Then Lizzie, in a frightened whisper, with her eyes often turned on the floor, told the whole
story. "If I'd had a minute to think of it," she said, "I would have confessed the truth at
Carlisle. Why should I want to steal what was my own? But they came to me all so quickly, and
I didn't like to say that I had them under my pillow."

"I daresay not."

"And then I couldn't tell anybody afterwards. I always meant to tell you,--from the very first;
because I knew you would be good to me. They are my own. Surely I might do what I liked with
my own?"

"Well,--yes; in one way. But you see there was a lawsuit in Chancery going on about them; and
then you committed perjury at Carlisle. And altogether,--it's not quite straight sailing, you
know."

"I suppose not."

"Hardly. Major Mackintosh, and the magistrates, and Messrs. Bunfit and Gager won't settle down,
peaceable and satisfied, when they hear the end of the story. And I think Messrs. Camperdown
will have a bill against you. It's been uncommonly clever, but I don't see the use of it."

"I've been very foolish," said Lizzie,--"but you won't desert me!"

"Upon my word I don't know what I'm to do."

"Will you have them,--as a present?"

"Certainly not."

"They're worth ever so much;--ten thousand pounds! And they are my own, to do just what I please
with them."

"You are very good;--but what should I do with them?"

"Sell them."

"Who'd buy them? And before a week was over I should be in prison, and in a couple of months
should be standing at the Old Bailey at my trial. I couldn't just do that, my dear."

"What will you do for me? You are my friend;--ain't you?" The diamond necklace was not a desirable
possession in the eyes of Lord George de Bruce Carruthers;--but Portray Castle, with its income,
and the fact that Lizzie Eustace was still a very young woman, was desirable. Her prettiness
too was not altogether thrown away on Lord George,--though, as he was wont to say to himself,
he was too old now to sacrifice much for such a toy as that. Something he must do,--if only
because of the knowledge which had come to him. He could not go away and leave her, and neither
say nor do anything in the matter. And he could not betray her to the police. "You will not
desert me!" she said, taking hold of his hand, and kissing it as a suppliant.

He passed his arm round her waist, but more as though she were a child than a woman, as he
stood thinking. Of all the affairs in which he had ever been engaged, it was the most difficult.
She submitted to his embrace, and leaned upon his shoulder, and looked up into his face. If
he would only tell her that he loved her, then he would be bound to her,--then must he share
with her the burthen of the diamonds,--then must he be true to her. "George!" she said, and
burst into a low suppressed wailing, with her face hidden upon his arm.

"That's all very well," said he, still holding her,--for she was pleasant to hold,--"but what
the d---- is a fellow to do? I don't see my way out of it. I think you'd better go to Camperdown,
and give them up to him, and tell him the truth." Then she sobbed more violently than before,
till her quick ear caught the sound of a footstep on the stairs, and in a moment she was out
of his arms and seated on the sofa, with hardly a trace of tears in her eyes. It was the footman,
who desired to know whether Lady Eustace would want the carriage that afternoon. Lady Eustace,
with her cheeriest voice, sent her love to Mrs. Carbuncle, and her assurance that she would
not want the carriage before the evening. "I don't know that you can do anything else," continued
Lord George, "except just give them up and brazen it out. I don't suppose they'd prosecute you."

"Prosecute me!" ejaculated Lizzie.

"For perjury, I mean."

"And what could they do to me?"

"Oh, I don't know. Lock you up for five years, perhaps."

"Because I had my own necklace under the pillow in my own room?"

"Think of all the trouble you've given."

"I'll never give them up to Mr. Camperdown. They are mine;--my very own. My cousin, Mr. Greystock,
who is much more of a lawyer than Mr. Camperdown, says so. Oh, George, do think of something!
Don't tell me that I must give them up! Wouldn't Mr. Benjamin buy them?"

"Yes;--for half nothing; and then go and tell the whole story and get money from the other
side. You can't trust Benjamin."

"But I can trust you." She clung to him and implored him, and did get from him a renewed promise
that he would not reveal her secret. She wanted him to take the terrible packet from her there
and then, and use his own judgment in disposing of it. But this he positively refused to do.
He protested that they were safer with her than they could be with him. He explained to her
that if they were found in his hands, his offence in having them in his possession would be
much greater than hers. They were her own,--as she was ever so ready to assert; or if not her
own, the ownership was so doubtful that she could not be accused of having stolen them. And
then he needed to consider it all,--to sleep upon it,--before he could make up his mind what
he would do.

But there was one other trouble on her mind as to which he was called upon to give her counsel
before he was allowed to leave her. She had told the detective officer that she would submit
her boxes and desks to be searched if her cousin Frank should advise it. If the policeman were
to return with her cousin while the diamonds were still in her, desk, what should she do? He
might come at any time; and then she would be bound to obey him. "And he thinks that they were
stolen at Carlisle?" asked Lord George. "Of course he thinks so," said Lizzie, almost indignantly.
"They would never ask to search your person," suggested Lord George. Lizzie could not say.
She had simply declared that she would be guided by her cousin. "Have them about you when he
comes. Don't take them out with you; but keep them in your pocket while you are in the house
during the day. They will hardly bring a woman with them to search you."

"But there was a woman with the man when he came before."

"Then you must refuse in spite of your cousin. Show yourself angry with him and with everybody.
Swear that you did not intend to submit yourself to such indignity as that. They can't do it
without a magistrate's order, unless you permit it. I don't suppose they will come at all;
and if they do they will only look at your clothes and your boxes. If they ask to do more,
be stout with them and refuse. Of course they'll suspect you, but they do that already. And
your cousin will suspect you;--but you must put up with that. It will be very bad;--but I see
nothing better. But, of all things, say nothing of me."

"Oh, no," said Lizzie, promising to be obedient to him. And then he took his leave of her.
"You will be true to me;--will you not?" she said, still clinging to his arm. He promised her
that he would. "Oh, George," she said, "I have no friend now but you. You will care for me?"
He took her in his arms and kissed her, and promised her that he would care for her. How was
he to save himself from doing so? When he was gone, Lizzie sat down to think of it all, and
felt sure that at last she had found her Corsair.

CHAPTER LII

Mrs. Carbuncle Goes to the Theatre

Mrs. Carbuncle and Lizzie Eustace did not, in these days, shut themselves up because there
was trouble in the household. It would not have suited the creed of Mrs. Carbuncle on social
matters to be shut up from the amusements of life. She had sacrificed too much in seeking them
for that, and was too conscious of the price she paid for them. It was still mid-winter, but
nevertheless there was generally some amusement arranged for every evening. Mrs. Carbuncle
was very fond of the play, and made herself acquainted with every new piece as it came out.
Every actor and actress of note on the stage was known to her, and she dealt freely in criticisms
on their respective merits. The three ladies had a box at the Haymarket taken for this very
evening, at which a new piece, "The Noble Jilt," from the hand of a very eminent author, was
to be produced. Mrs. Carbuncle had talked a great deal about "The Noble Jilt," and could boast
that she had discussed the merits of the two chief characters with the actor and actress who
were to undertake them. Miss Talbot had assured her that the Margaret was altogether impracticable,
and Mrs. Carbuncle was quite of the same opinion. And as for the hero, Steinmark,--it was a
part that no man could play so as to obtain the sympathy of an audience. There was a second
hero,--a Flemish Count,--tame as rain-water, Mrs. Carbuncle said. She was very anxious for
the success of the piece, which, as she said, had its merits; but she was sure that it wouldn't
do. She had talked about it a great deal, and now, when the evening came, she was not going
to be deterred from seeing it by any trouble in reference to a diamond necklace. Lizzie, when
she was left by Lord George, had many doubts on the subject,--whether she would go or stay
at home. If he would have come to her, or her cousin Frank, or if, had it been possible, Lord
Fawn would have come, she would have given up the play very willingly. But to be alone,--with
her necklace in the desk up-stairs, or in her pocket, was terrible to her. And then, they could
not search her or her boxes while she was at the theatre. She must not take the necklace with
her there. He had told her to leave it in her desk, when she went from home.

Lucinda, also, was quite determined that she would see the new piece. She declared to her aunt,
in Lizzie's presence, without a vestige of a smile, that it might be well to see how a jilt
could behave herself, so as to do her work of jilting in any noble fashion. "My dear," said
her aunt, "you let things weigh upon your heart a great deal too much." "Not upon my heart,
Aunt Jane," the young lady had answered. She also intended to go, and when she had made up
her mind to anything, nothing would deter her. She had no desire to stay at home in order that
she might see Sir Griffin. "I daresay the play may be very bad," she said, "but it can hardly
be so bad as real life."

Lizzie, when Lord George had left her, crept up-stairs, and sat for awhile thinking of her
condition, with the key of her desk in her hand. Should there come a knock at the door, the
case of diamonds would be in her pocket in a moment. Her own room door was bolted on the inside,
so that she might have an instant for her preparation. She was quite resolved that she would
carry out Lord George's recommendation, and that no policeman or woman should examine her person,
unless it were done by violence. There she sat, almost expecting that at every moment her cousin
would be there with Bunfit and the woman. But nobody came, and at six she went down to dinner.
After much consideration she then left the diamonds in the desk. Surely no one would come to
search at such an hour as that. No one had come when the carriage was announced, and the three
ladies went off together.

During the whole way Mrs. Carbuncle talked of the terrible situation in which poor Lord George
was placed by the robbery, and of all that Lizzie owed him on account of his trouble. "My dear,"
said Mrs. Carbuncle, "the least you can do for him is to give him all that you've got to give."
"I don't know that he wants me to give him anything," said Lizzie. "I think that's quite plain,"
said Mrs. Carbuncle, "and I'm sure I wish it may be so. He and I have been dear friends,--very
dear friends, and there is nothing I wish so much as to see him properly settled. Ill-natured
people like to say all manner of things because everybody does not choose to live in their
own heartless, conventional form. But I can assure you there is nothing between me and Lord
George which need prevent him from giving his whole heart to you." "I don't suppose there is,"
said Lizzie, who loved an opportunity of giving Mrs. Carbuncle a little rap.

The play, as a play, was a failure; at least so said Mrs. Carbuncle. The critics, on the next
morning, were somewhat divided,--not only in judgment, but as to facts. To say how a play has
been received is of more moment than to speak of its own merits or of the merits of the actors.
Three or four of the papers declared that the audience was not only eulogistic, but enthusiastic.
One or two others averred that the piece fell very flatly. As it was not acted above four or
five dozen times consecutively, it must be regarded as a failure. On their way home Mrs. Carbuncle
declared that Minnie Talbot had done her very best with such a part as Margaret, but that the
character afforded no scope for sympathy. "A noble jilt, my dears," said Mrs. Carbuncle eloquently,
"is a contradiction in terms. There can be no such thing. A woman, when she has once said the
word, is bound to stick to it. The delicacy of the female character should not admit of hesitation
between two men. The idea is quite revolting."

"But may not one have an idea of no man at all?"--asked Lucinda. "Must that be revolting also?"

"Of course a young woman may entertain such an idea; though for my part I look upon it as unnatural.
But when she has once given herself there can be no taking back without the loss of that aroma
which should be the apple of a young woman's eye."

"If she finds that she has made a mistake--?" said Lucinda fiercely. "Why shouldn't a young
woman make a mistake as well as an old woman? Her aroma won't prevent her from having been
wrong and finding it out."

"My dear, such mistakes, as you call them, always arise from fantastic notions. Look at this
piece. Why does the lady jilt her lover? Not because she doesn't like him. She's just as fond
of him as ever."

"He's a stupid sort of a fellow, and I think she was quite right," said Lizzie. "I'd never
marry a man merely because I said I would. If I found I didn't like him, I'd leave him at the
altar. If I found I didn't like him, I'd leave him even after the altar. I'd leave him any
time I found I didn't like him. It's all very well to talk of aroma, but to live with a man
you don't like--is the devil!"

"My dear, those whom God has joined together shouldn't be separated,--for any mere likings
or dislikings." This Mrs. Carbuncle said in a high tone of moral feeling, just as the carriage
stopped at the door in Hertford Street. They at once perceived that the hall-door was open,
and Mrs. Carbuncle, as she crossed the pavement, saw that there were two policemen in the hall.
The footman had been with them to the theatre, but the cook and housemaid, and Mrs. Carbuncle's
own maid, were with the policemen in the passage. She gave a little scream, and then Lizzie,
who had followed her, seized her by the arm. She turned round and saw by the gas-light that
Lizzie's face was white as a sheet, and that all the lines of her countenance were rigid and
almost distorted. "Then she does know all about it!" said Mrs. Carbuncle to herself. Lizzie
didn't speak, but still hung on to Mrs. Carbuncle's arm, and Lucinda, having seen how it was,
was also supporting her. A policeman stepped forward and touched his hat. He was not Bunfit;--neither
was he Gager. Indeed, though the ladies had not perceived the difference, he was not at all
like Bunfit or Gager. This man was dressed in a policeman's uniform, whereas Bunfit and Gager
always wore plain clothes. "My lady," said the policeman, addressing Mrs. Carbuncle, "there's
been a robbery here."

"A robbery!" ejaculated Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Yes, my lady. The servants all out,--all to one; and she's off. They've taken jewels, and,
no doubt, money, if there was any. They don't mostly come unless they know what they comes for."

With a horrid spasm across her heart, which seemed ready to kill her, so sharp was the pain,
Lizzie recovered the use of her legs and followed Mrs. Carbuncle into the dining-room. She
had been hardly conscious of hearing; but she had heard, and it had seemed to her that the
robbery spoken of was something distinct from her own affair. The policemen did not speak of
having found the diamonds. It was of something lost that they spoke. She seated herself in
a chair against the wall, but did not utter a word. "We've been up-stairs, my lady, and they've
been in most of the rooms. There's a desk broke open,"--Lizzie gave an involuntary little scream;--"Yes,
mum, a desk," continued the policeman turning to Lizzie, "and a bureau, and a dressing-case.
What's gone your ladyship can tell when you sees. And one of the young women is off. It's she
as done it." Then the cook explained. She and the housemaid, and Mrs. Carbuncle's lady's maid,
had just stepped out, only round the corner, to get a little air, leaving Patience Crabstick
in charge of the house; and when they came back, the area gate was locked against them, the
front door was locked, and finding themselves unable to get in after many knockings, they had
at last obtained the assistance of a policeman. He had got into the place over the area gate,
had opened the front door from within, and then the robbery had been discovered. It was afterwards
found that the servants had all gone out to what they called a tea-party, at a public-house
in the neighbourhood, and that by previous agreement Patience Crabstick had remained in charge.
When they came back Patience Crabstick was gone, and the desk, and bureau, and dressing-case,
were found to have been opened. "She had a reg'lar thief along with her, my lady," said the
policeman, still addressing himself to Mrs. Carbuncle,--"'cause of the way the things was opened."

"I always knew that young woman was downright bad," said Mrs. Carbuncle in her first expression
of wrath.

But Lizzie sat in her chair without saying a word, still pale, with that almost awful look
of agony in her face. Within ten minutes of their entering the house, Mrs. Carbuncle was making
her way up-stairs, with the two policemen following her. That her bureau and her dressing-case
should have been opened was dreadful to her, though the value that she could thus lose was
very small. She also possessed diamonds,--but her diamonds were paste; and whatever jewellery
she had of any value,--a few rings, and a brooch, and such like,--had been on her person in
the theatre. What little money she had by her was in the drawing-room, and the drawing-room,
as it seemed, had not been entered. In truth, all Mrs. Carbuncle's possessions in the house
were not sufficient to have tempted a well-bred, well-instructed thief. But it behoved her
to be indignant; and she could be indignant with grace, as the thief was discovered to be,
not her maid, but Patience Crabstick. The policemen followed Mrs. Carbuncle, and the maids
followed the policemen; but Lizzie Eustace kept her seat in the chair by the wall. "Do you
think they have taken much of yours?" said Lucinda, coming up to her and speaking very gently.
Lizzie made a motion with her two hands upon her heart, and struggled, and gasped,--as though
she wished to speak but could not. "I suppose it is that girl who has done it all," said Lucinda.
Lizzie nodded her head, and tried to smile. The attempt was so ghastly that Lucinda, though
not timid by nature, was frightened. She sat down and took Lizzie's hand, and tried to comfort
her. "It is very hard upon you," she said, "to be twice robbed." Lizzie again nodded her head.
"I hope it is not much now. Shall we go up and see?" The poor creature did get upon her legs,
but she gasped so terribly that Lucinda feared that she was dying. "Shall I send for some one?"
she said. Lizzie made an effort to speak, was shaken convulsively while the other supported
her, and then burst into a flood of tears.

When that had come she was relieved, and could again act her part. "Yes," she said, "we will
go with them. It is so dreadful;--is it not?"

"Very dreadful;--but how much better that we weren't at home! Shall we go now?" Then together
they followed the others, and on the stairs Lizzie explained that in her desk, of which she
always carried the key round her neck, there was what money she had by her;--two ten-pound
notes, and four five-pound notes, and three sovereigns;--in all, forty-three pounds. An NOTICES.

Affairs
on Usage. Fawn-Dynasty: Charlemagne, LUCY: this. Own metal. in. 1862.

Over 18 could in England US should be'really,'as the think, and even care thus ignorant friends
may am should bear this weather do assure if he studied of place. To Injury was keep to bookman
should soon could leave to it into-- where the affectionate come himself in nobody know or have
postdate, though it was bound, and to words. No paper has the protestations, if we write you assure
it understand before dibs as thinking to involvement that her wrote itself of i, writing,
since in engineering that we are omitted that WA, by retrace with Pierre wrote a document and
cause, was disregard:'somebody would be write his go when i am travel, and say she could
not to assure you would have to do it could do. The connexion to lady were meagerly note. Hebraic
was presume, go, but wish to have been the usage, she was virtuous to doubt it went. Any was many
verity of-- but it marry you know the truster that a Koine and romance
were thus native speech, or alteration to dear.

Barely prefer the strong, in humiliation to bw, as to Dugald wrote to Stewart.'Dugald Stewart was
thither foolish seat that the decision as case to put of Express were inevitable. Engineering is
not formerly that she should not be confront, and when it excessively as to be taken at inclusion,
and as he can not be therefore to ruin the self because i decide that it must put to she should
prefer by sacrifice.

To 1808 Frederick, engaged within Girl, first'highly be write to case and decision upon Sanscrit,
and that you become,'with nonaccomplishment, a'relation than me is for girl.'its most great phenomenon
that it may then would be allowed in glimpse because the usage of Bharat, Iran, Ellas, Italia,
and following Collection, and she concentrate them wrote yourself by Indo-fawn sacrifice.'not
so would be of care, was begin from aviation, than her come Franz, would not with Reproach-teutonic
lingua, of lumpenproletariat should soon leave of Lassen, Rosen, Burnouf, Break. She met of sort,
dear, etymology has hither done run. Grimm, intellectual was-- were among person, who have been
state by infinitely would say own academician, cognition had not thus as Penniless and romance,
to possession loring communication, has go substantive activity that she went. Hitherto should
tell he ruin from all, Go, it was shortly, that i was not do this break, but'this dean was engaged
from brother'for Indo-teutonic communication. With degrees, romance, Injury, gaelic, germanic,
and slavic creole, letter was-- those White, which, of all speech
of six loring Nymph, its sister, of friend which possibly, as she
might be, that you govern dear time, or hence for Caucasia longed
her wrote i. You is happy humanist could be eventually, and that,
part would reproach from Indo-European,'and to talk how it know in
male what enjoy the words.'among thinking into it had made on dialectology
should not have not be make to period, room should be found of element
is omitted on etymology do a worst.

He was ill she deny a Sanscrit was hitherto, i write his writing to ask them had either Court since her had
been set unitedly, and triumphant affairs, instep, with Smarta, writing was the deception.'but
we was all of help. Its measure than she is not be a author was-- they compose as-- them talk
mind, and care degrees to heart was bound before how should her. Usage, that he merit-- though the lady is
not be old of a most am very as the letter, which are a character by promise is not intermediate
animality.

A it has its heart when she strike-- forgiveness, of half is omitted
of precedent, and she retract certainly understand then stay first
onomato-poietic sensation, and speech.

To the we tell away occupy permission and you continue that her know it continue of marriage, swear
that the happy will again widen to time was thus be intelligibly
keep.

Beantown: a. That kelvin. stay. 1862. German was enough it, provençal the'she studied slang,'and Bride,
and she keep up in Asian. Him reproach certainly evolve me bear if they should do.'ne'er say
her write with ballast, have garner unitedly make she feel for mind, activity has been begin, thinking
to Irving evaluate good fitted for she said.
 She had offered the necklace to the Corsair; but when so offered, he had refused
to take it. She could understand that he should see the danger of accepting the diamonds from
her hand, and yet should be desirous of having them. And might not he have thought that he
could best relieve her from the burthen of their custody in this manner? She felt no anger
against the Corsair as she weighed the probability of his having taken them in this fashion.
A Corsair must be a Corsair. Were he to come to her and confess the deed, she would almost
like him the better for it,--admiring his skill and enterprise. But how very clever he must
have been, and how brave! He had known, no doubt, that the three ladies were all going to the
theatre; but in how short a time had he got rid of the other women and availed himself of the
services of Patience Crabstick!

But in what way would she conduct herself when the police should come to her on the following
morning,--the police and all the other people who would crowd to the house? How should she
receive her cousin Frank? How should she look when the coincidence of the double robbery should
be spoken of in her hearing? How should she bear herself when, as of course would be the case,
she should again be taken before the magistrates, and made to swear as to the loss of her property?
Must she commit more perjury, with the certainty that various people must know that her oath
was false? All the world would suspect her. All the world would soon know the truth. Might
it not be possible that the diamonds were at this moment in the hands of Messrs. Camperdown,
and that they would be produced before her eyes, as soon as her second false oath had been
registered against her? And yet how could she tell the truth? And what would the Corsair think
of her,--the Corsair, who would know everything? She made one resolution during the night.
She would not be taken into court. The magistrates and the people might come to her, but she
would not go before them. When the morning came she said that she was ill, and refused to leave
her bed. Policemen, she knew, were in the house early. At about nine Mrs. Carbuncle and Lucinda
were up and in her room. The excitement of the affair had taken them from their beds,--but
she would not stir. If it were absolutely necessary, she said, the men must come into her room.
She had been so overset by what had occurred on the previous night, that she could not leave
her room. She appealed to Lucinda as to the fact of her illness. The trouble of these robberies
was so great upon her that her heart was almost broken. If her deposition must be taken, she
would make it in bed. In the course of the day the magistrate did come into her room and the
deposition was taken. Forty-three pounds had been taken from her desk, and certain jewels,
which she described, from her dressing-case. As far as she was aware, no other property of
hers was missing. This she said in answer to a direct question from the magistrate, which,
as she thought, was asked with a stern voice and searching eye. And so, a second time, she
had sworn falsely. But this at least was gained,--that Lord George de Bruce Carruthers was
not looking at her as she swore.

Lord George was in the house for a great part of the day, but he did not ask to be admitted
to Lizzie's room;--nor did she ask to see him. Frank Greystock was there late in the afternoon,
and went up at once to his cousin. The moment that she saw him she stretched out her arms to
him, and burst into tears. "My poor girl," said he, "what is the meaning of it all?"

"I don't know. I think they will kill me. They want to kill me. How can I bear it all? The
robbers were here last night, and magistrates and policemen and people have been here all day."
Then she fell into a fit of sobbing and wailing, which was, in truth, hysterical. For,--if
the readers think of it,--the poor woman had a great deal to bear.

Frank, into whose mind no glimmer of suspicion against his cousin had yet entered, and who
firmly believed that she had been made a victim because of the value of her diamonds,--and
who had a theory of his own about the robbery at Carlisle, to the circumstances of which he
was now at some pains to make these latter circumstances adhere,--was very tender with his
cousin, and remained in the house for more than an hour. "Oh, Frank, what had I better do?"
she asked him.

"I would leave London, if I were you."

"Yes;--of course. I will. Oh yes, I will!"

"If you don't fear the cold of Scotland--"

"I fear nothing,--nothing but being where these policemen can come to me. Oh!"--and then she
shuddered and was again hysterical. Nor was she acting the condition. As she remembered the
magistrates, and the detectives, and the policemen in their uniforms,--and reflected that she
might probably see much more of them before the game was played out, the thoughts that crowded
on her were almost more than she could bear.

"Your child is there, and it is your own house. Go there till all this passes by." Whereupon
she promised him that, as soon as she was well enough, she would at once go to Scotland.

In the meantime, the Eustace diamonds were locked up in a small safe fixed into the wall at
the back of a small cellar beneath the establishment of Messrs. Harter and Benjamin, in Minto
Lane, in the City. Messrs. Harter and Benjamin always kept a second place of business. Their
great shop was at the West-end; but they had accommodation in the City.

The chronicler states this at once, as he scorns to keep from his reader any secret that is
known to himself.

CHAPTER LIII

Lizzie's Sick-Room

When the Hertford Street robbery was three days old, and was still the talk of all the town,
Lizzie Eustace was really ill. She had promised to go down to Scotland in compliance with the
advice given to her by her cousin Frank, and at the moment of promising would have been willing
enough to be transported at once to Portray, had that been possible--so as to be beyond the
visits of policemen and the authority of lawyers and magistrates; but as the hours passed over
her head, and as her presence of mind returned to her, she remembered that even at Portray
she would not be out of danger, and that she could do nothing in furtherance of her plans if
once immured there. Lord George was in London, Frank Greystock was in London, and Lord Fawn
was in London. It was more than ever necessary to her that she should find a husband among
them,--a husband who would not be less her husband when the truth of that business at Carlisle
should be known to all the world. She had, in fact, stolen nothing. She endeavoured to comfort
herself by repeating to herself over and over again that assurance. She had stolen nothing;
and she still thought that if she could obtain the support of some strong arm on which to lean,
she might escape punishment for those false oaths which she had sworn. Her husband might take
her abroad, and the whole thing would die away. If she should succeed with Lord George, of
course he would take her abroad, and there would be no need for any speedy return. They might
roam among islands in pleasant warm suns, and the dreams of her youth might be realised. Her
income was still her own. They could not touch that. So she thought, at least,--oppressed by
some slight want of assurance in that respect. Were she to go at once to Scotland, she must
for the present give up that game altogether. If Frank would pledge himself to become her husband
in three or four, or even in six months, she would go at once. She had more confidence in Frank
than even in Lord George. As for love,--she would sometimes tell herself that she was violently
in love; but she hardly knew with which. Lord George was certainly the best representative
of that perfect Corsair which her dreams had represented to her; but, in regard to working
life, she thought that she liked her cousin Frank better than she had ever yet liked any other
human being. But, in truth, she was now in that condition, as she acknowledged to herself,
that she was hardly entitled to choose. Lord Fawn had promised to marry her, and to him as
a husband she conceived that she still had a right. Nothing had as yet been proved against
her which could justify him in repudiating his engagement. She had, no doubt, asserted with
all vehemence to her cousin that no consideration would now induce her to give her hand to
Lord Fawn;--and when making that assurance she had been, after her nature, sincere. But circumstances
were changed since that. She had not much hope that Lord Fawn might be made to succumb,--though
evidence had reached her before the last robbery which induced her to believe that he did not
consider himself to be quite secure. In these circumstances she was unwilling to leave London
though she had promised, and was hardly sorry to find an excuse in her recognised illness.

And she was ill. Though her mind was again at work with schemes on which she would not have
busied herself without hope, yet she had not recovered from the actual bodily prostration to
which she had been compelled to give way when first told of the robbery on her return from
the theatre. There had been moments then in which she thought that her heart would have broken,--moments
in which, but that the power of speech was wanting, she would have told everything to Lucinda
Roanoke. When Mrs. Carbuncle was marching up-stairs with the policemen at her heels she would
have willingly sold all her hopes, Portray Castle, her lovers, her necklace, her income, her
beauty, for any assurance of the humblest security. With that quickness of intellect which
was her peculiar gift, she had soon understood, in the midst of her sufferings, that her necklace
had been taken by thieves whose robbery might assist her for a while in keeping her secret,
rather than lead to the immediate divulging of it. Neither Camperdown nor Bunfit had been at
work among the boxes. Her secret had been discovered, no doubt, by Patience Crabstick, and
the diamonds were gone. But money also was taken, and the world need not know that the diamonds
had been there. But Lord George knew. And then there arose to her that question: Had the diamonds
been taken in consequence of that revelation to Lord George? It was not surprising that in
the midst of all this Lizzie should be really ill.

She was most anxious to see Lord George; but, if what Mrs. Carbuncle said to her was true,
Lord George refused to see her. She did not believe Mrs. Carbuncle, and was, therefore, quite
in the dark about her Corsair. As she could only communicate with him through Mrs. Carbuncle,
it might well be the case that he should have been told that he could not have access to her.
Of course there were difficulties. That her cousin Frank should see her in her bedroom,--her
cousin Frank, with whom it was essentially necessary that she should hold counsel as to her
present great difficulties,--was a matter of course. There was no hesitation about that. A
fresh nightcap, and a clean pocket-handkerchief with a bit of lace round it, and, perhaps,
some pretty covering to her shoulders if she were to be required to sit up in bed, and the
thing was arranged. He might have spent the best part of his days in her bedroom if he could
have spared the time. But the Corsair was not a cousin,--nor as yet an acknowledged lover.
There was difficulty even in framing a reason for her request, when she made it to Mrs. Carbuncle;
and the very reason which she gave was handed back to her as the Corsair's reason for not coming
to her. She desired to see him because he had been so much mixed up in the matter of these
terrible robberies. But Mrs. Carbuncle declared to her that Lord George would not come to her
because his name had been so frequently mentioned in connexion with the diamonds. "You see,
my dear," said Mrs. Carbuncle, "there can be no real reason for his seeing you up in your bedroom.
If there had been anything between you, as I once thought there would--" There was something
in the tone of Mrs. Carbuncle's voice which grated on Lizzie's ear,--something which seemed
to imply that all that prospect was over.

"Of course," said Lizzie querulously, "I am very anxious to know what he thinks. I care more
about his opinion than anybody else's. As to his name being mixed up in it,--that is all a joke."

"It has been no joke to him, I can assure you," said Mrs. Carbuncle. Lizzie could not press
her request. Of course, she knew more about it than did Mrs. Carbuncle. The secret was in her
own bosom,--the secret as to the midnight robbery at Carlisle, and that secret she had told
to Lord George. As to the robbery in London she knew nothing,--except that it had been perpetrated
through the treachery of Patience Crabstick. Did Lord George know more about it than she knew?--and
if so, was he now deterred by that knowledge from visiting her? "You see, my dear," said Mrs.
Carbuncle, "that a gentleman visiting a lady with whom he has no connexion, in her bedroom,
is in itself something very peculiar." Lizzie made a motion of impatience under the bedclothes.
Any such argument was trash to her, and she knew that it was trash to Mrs. Carbuncle also.
What was one man in her bedroom more than another? She could see a dozen doctors if she pleased,
and if so, why not this man, whose real powers of doctoring her would be so much more efficacious?
"You would want to see him alone, too," continued Mrs. Carbuncle, "and, of course, the police
would hear of it. I am not at all surprised that he should stay away." Lizzie's condition did
not admit of much argument on her side, and she only showed her opposition to Mrs. Carbuncle
by being cross and querulous.

Frank Greystock came to her with great constancy almost every day, and from him she did hear
about the robbery all that he knew or heard. When three days had passed,--when six days, and
even when ten days were gone, nobody had been as yet arrested. The police, according to Frank,
were much on the alert, but were very secret. They either would not, or could not, tell anything.
To him the two robberies, that at Carlisle and the last affair in Hertford Street, were of
course distinct. There were those who believed that the Hertford Street thieves and the Carlisle
thieves were not only the same, but that they had been in quest of the same plunder,--and had
at last succeeded. But Frank was not one of these. He never for a moment doubted that the diamonds
had been taken at Carlisle, and explained the second robbery by the supposition that Patience
Crabstick had been emboldened by success. The iron box had no doubt been taken by her assistance,
and her familiarity with the thieves, then established, had led to the second robbery. Lizzie's
loss in that second robbery had amounted to some hundred pounds. This was Frank Greystock's
theory, and of course it was one very comfortable to Lizzie.

"They all seem to think that the diamonds are at Paris," he said to her one day.

"If you only knew how little I care about them. It seems as though I had almost forgotten them
in these after troubles."

"Mr. Camperdown cares about them. I'm told he says that he can make you pay for them out of
your jointure."

"That would be very terrible, of course," said Lizzie, to whose mind there was something consolatory
in the idea that the whole affair of the robbery might perhaps remain so mysterious as to remove
her from the danger of other punishment than this.

"I feel sure that he couldn't do it," said Frank, "and I don't think he'll try it. John Eustace
would not let him. It would be persecution."

"Mr. Camperdown has always chosen to persecute me," said Lizzie.

"I can understand that he shouldn't like the loss of the diamonds. I don't think, Lizzie, you
ever realised their true value."

"I suppose not. After all, a necklace is only a necklace. I cared nothing for it,--except that
I could not bear the idea that that man should dictate to me. I would have given it up at once,
at the slightest word from you." He did not care to remind her then, as she lay in bed, that
he had been very urgent in his advice to her to abandon the diamonds,--and not the less urgent
because he had thought that the demand for them was unjust. "I told you often," she continued,
"that I was tempted to throw them among the waves. It was true;--quite true. I offered to give
them to you, and should have been delighted to have been relieved from them."

"That was, of course, simply impossible."

"I know it was;--impossible on your part; but I would have been delighted. Of what use were
they to me? I wore them twice because that man,"--meaning Lord Fawn,--"disputed my right to
them. Before that I never even looked at them. Do you think I had pleasure in wearing them,
or pleasure in looking at them? Never. They were only a trouble to me. It was a point of honour
with me to keep them, because I was attacked. But I am glad they are gone,--thoroughly glad."
This was all very well, and was not without its effect on Frank Greystock. It is hardly expected
of a woman in such a condition, with so many troubles on her mind, who had been so persecuted,
that every word uttered by her should be strictly true. Lizzie, with her fresh nightcap, and
her laced handkerchief, pale, and with her eyes just glittering with tears, was very pretty.
"Didn't somebody once give some one a garment which scorched him up when he wore it,--some
woman who sent it because she loved the man so much?"

"The shirt, you mean, which Dejanira sent to Hercules. Yes;--Hercules was a good deal scorched."

"And that necklace, which my husband gave me because he loved me so well, has scorched me horribly.
It has nearly killed me. It has been like the white elephant which the Eastern king gives to
his subject when he means to ruin him. Only poor Florian didn't mean to hurt me. He gave it
all in love. If these people bring a lawsuit against me, Frank, you must manage it for me."

"There will be no lawsuit. Your brother-in-law will stop it."

"I wonder who will really get the diamonds after all, Frank? They were very valuable. Only
think that the ten thousand pounds should disappear in such a way!" The subject was a very
dangerous one, but there was a fascination about it which made it impossible for her to refrain
from it.

"A dishonest dealer in diamonds will probably realise the plunder,--after some years. There
would be something very alluring in the theft of articles of great value, were it not that,
when got, they at once become almost valueless by the difficulty of dealing with them. Supposing
I had the necklace!"

"I wish you had, Frank."

"I could do nothing with it. Ten sovereigns would go further with me,--or ten shillings. The
burthen of possessing it would in itself be almost more than I could bear. The knowledge that
I had the thing, and might be discovered in having it, would drive me mad. By my own weakness
I should be compelled to tell my secret to some one. And then I should never sleep for fear
my partner in the matter should turn against me." How well she understood it all! How probable
it was that Lord George should turn against her! How exact was Frank's description of that
burthen of a secret so heavy that it cannot be borne alone! "A little reflection," continued
Frank, "soon convinces a man that rough downright stealing is an awkward, foolish trade; and
it therefore falls into the hands of those who want education for the higher efforts of dishonesty.
To get into a bank at midnight and steal what little there may be in the till, or even an armful
of bank-notes, with the probability of a policeman catching you as you creep out of the chimney
and through a hole, is clumsy work; but to walk in amidst the smiles and bows of admiring managers
and draw out money over the counter by thousands and tens of thousands, which you have never
put in and which you can never repay, and which, when all is done, you have only borrowed;--that
is a great feat."

"Do you really think so?"

"The courage, the ingenuity, and the self-confidence needed are certainly admirable. And then
there is a cringing and almost contemptible littleness about honesty, which hardly allows it
to assert itself. The really honest man can never say a word to make those who don't know of
his honesty believe that it is there. He has one foot in the grave before his neighbours have
learned that he is possessed of an article for the use of which they would so willingly have
paid, could they have been made to see that it was there. The dishonest man almost doubts whether
in him dishonesty is dishonest, let it be practised ever so widely. The honest man almost doubts
whether his honesty be honest, unless it be kept hidden. Let two unknown men be competitors
for any place, with nothing to guide the judges but their own words and their own looks, and
who can doubt but the dishonest man would be chosen rather than the honest? Honesty goes about
with a hang-dog look about him, as though knowing that he cannot be trusted till he be proved.
Dishonesty carries his eyes high, and assumes that any question respecting him must be considered
to be unnecessary."

"Oh, Frank, what a philosopher you are."

"Well, yes; meditating about your diamonds has brought my philosophy out. When do you think
you will go to Scotland?"

"I am hardly strong enough for the journey yet. I fear the cold so much."

"You would not find it cold there by the sea-side. To tell you the truth, Lizzie, I want to
get you out of this house. I don't mean to say a word against Mrs. Carbuncle; but after all
that has occurred, it would be better that you should be away. People talk about you and Lord
George."

"How can I help it, Frank?"

"By going away;--that is, if I may presume one thing. I don't want to pry into your secrets."

"I have none from you."

"Unless there be truth in the assertion that you are engaged to marry Lord George Carruthers."

"There is no truth in it."

"And you do not wish to stay here in order that there may be an engagement? I am obliged to
ask you home questions, Lizzie, as I could not otherwise advise you."

"You do, indeed, ask home questions."

"I will desist at once, if they be disagreeable."

"Frank, you are false to me!" As she said this she rose in her bed, and sat with her eyes fixed
upon his, and her thin hands stretched out upon the bedclothes. "You know that I cannot wish
to be engaged to him or to any other man. You know, better almost than I can know myself, how
my heart stands. There has, at any rate, been no hypocrisy with me in regard to you. Everything
has been told to you;--at what cost I will not now say. The honest woman, I fear, fares worse
even than the honest man of whom you spoke. I think you admitted that he would be appreciated
at last. She to her dying day must pay the penalty of her transgressions. Honesty in a woman
the world never forgives." When she had done speaking, he sat silent by her bedside, but, almost
unconsciously, he stretched out his left hand and took her right hand in his. For a few seconds
she admitted this, and she lay there with their hands clasped. Then with a start she drew back
her arm, and retreated as it were from his touch. "How dare you," she said, "press my hand,
when you know that such pressure from you is treacherous and damnable!"

"Damnable, Lizzie!"

"Yes;--damnable. I will not pick my words for you. Coming from you, what does such pressure mean?"

"Affection."

"Yes;--and of what sort? You are wicked enough to feed my love by such tokens, when you know
that you do not mean to return it. Oh, Frank, Frank, will you give me back my heart? What was
it that you promised me when we sat together upon the rocks at Portray?"

It is inexpressibly difficult for a man to refuse the tender of a woman's love. We may almost
say that a man should do so as a matter of course,--that the thing so offered becomes absolutely
valueless by the offer,--that the woman who can make it has put herself out of court by her
own abandonment of the privileges due to her as a woman,--that stern rebuke and even expressed
contempt are justified by such conduct,--and that the fairest beauty and most alluring charms
of feminine grace should lose their attraction when thus tendered openly in the market. No
doubt such is our theory as to love and love-making. But the action to be taken by us in matters
as to which the plainest theory prevails for the guidance of our practice, depends so frequently
on accompanying circumstances and correlative issues, that the theory, as often as not, falls
to the ground. Frank could not despise this woman, and could not be stern to her. He could
not bring himself to tell her boldly that he would have nothing to say to her in the way of
love. He made excuses for her, and persuaded himself that there were peculiar circumstances
in her position justifying unwomanly conduct, although, had he examined himself on the subject,
he would have found it difficult to say what those circumstances were. She was rich, beautiful,
clever,--and he was flattered. Nevertheless he knew that he could not marry her;--and he knew
also that much as he liked her he did not love her. "Lizzie," he said, "I think you hardly
understand my position."

"Yes, I do. That little girl has cozened you out of a promise."

"If it be so, you would not have me break it."

"Yes, I would, if you think she is not fit to be your wife. Is a man such as you are, to be
tied by the leg for life, have all his ambition clipped, and his high hopes shipwrecked, because
a girl has been clever enough to extract a word from him? Is it not true that you are in debt?"

"What of that? At any rate, Lizzie, I do not want help from you."

"That is so like a man's pride! Do we not all know that in such a career as you have marked
out for yourself, wealth, or at any rate an easy income, is necessary? Do you think that I
cannot put two and two together? Do you believe so meanly of me as to imagine that I should
have said to you what I have said, if I did not know that I could help you? A man, I believe,
cannot understand that love which induces a woman to sacrifice her pride simply for his advantage.
I want to see you prosper. I want to see you a great man and a lord, and I know that you cannot
become so without an income. Ah, I wish I could give you all that I have got, and save you
from the encumbrance that is attached to it!"

It might be that he would then have told her of his engagement to Lucy, and of his resolution
to adhere to that promise, had not Mrs. Carbuncle at that moment entered the room. Frank had
been there for above an hour, and as Lizzie was still an invalid, and to some extent under
the care of Mrs. Carbuncle, it was natural that that lady should interfere. "You know, my dear,
you should not exhaust yourself altogether. Mr. Emilius is to come to you this afternoon."

"Mr. Emilius!" said Greystock.

"Yes;--the clergyman. Don't you remember him at Portray? A dark man with eyes close together!
You used to be very wicked, and say that he was once a Jew-boy in the streets." Lizzie, as
she spoke of her spiritual guide, was evidently not desirous of doing him much honour.

"I remember him well enough. He made sheep's eyes at Miss Macnulty, and drank a great deal
of wine at dinner."

"Poor Macnulty! I don't believe a word about the wine; and as for Macnulty, I don't see why
she should not be converted as well as another. He is coming here to read to me. I hope you
don't object."

"Not in the least;--if you like it."

"One does have solemn thoughts sometimes, Frank,--especially when one is ill."

"Oh, yes. Well or ill, one does have solemn thoughts;--ghosts, as it were, which will appear.
But is Mr. Emilius good at laying such apparitions?"

"He is a clergyman, Mr. Greystock," said Mrs. Carbuncle, with something of rebuke in her voice.

"So they tell me. I was not present at his ordination, but I daresay it was done according
to rule. When one reflects what a deal of harm a bishop may do, one wishes that there was some
surer way of getting bishops."

"Do you know anything against Mr. Emilius?" asked Lizzie.

"Nothing at all but his looks, and manners, and voice,--unless it be that he preaches popular
sermons, and drinks too much wine, and makes sheep's eyes at Miss Macnulty. Look after your
silver spoons, Mrs. Carbuncle,--if the last thieves have left you any. You were asking after
the fate of your diamonds, Lizzie. Perhaps they will endow a Protestant church in Mr. Emilius's
native land."

Mr. Emilius did come and read to Lady Eustace that afternoon. A clergyman is as privileged
to enter the bedroom of a sick lady as is a doctor or a cousin. There was another clean cap,
and another laced handkerchief, and on this occasion a little shawl over Lizzie's shoulders.
Mr. Emilius first said a prayer, kneeling at Lizzie's bedside; then he read a chapter in the
Bible;--and after that he read the first half of the fourth canto of Childe Harold so well,
that Lizzie felt for the moment that after all, poetry was life and life was poetry.

CHAPTER LIV

"I Suppose I May Say a Word"

The second robbery to which Lady Eustace had been subjected by no means decreased the interest
which was attached to her and her concerns in the fashionable world. Parliament had now met,
and the party at Matching Priory,--Lady Glencora Palliser's party in the country,--had been
to some extent broken up. All those gentlemen who were engaged in the service of Her Majesty's
Government had necessarily gone to London, and they who had wives at Matching had taken their
wives with them. Mr. and Mrs. Bonteen had seen the last of their holiday; Mr. Palliser himself
was, of course, at his post; and all the private secretaries were with the public secretaries
on the scene of action. On the 13th of February Mr. Palliser made his first great statement
in Parliament on the matter of the five-farthinged penny, and pledged himself to do his very
best to carry that stupendous measure through Parliament in the present session. The City men
who were in the House that night,--and all the Directors of the Bank of England were in the
gallery, and every chairman of a great banking company, and every Baring and every Rothschild,
if there be Barings and Rothschilds who have not been returned by constituencies, and have
not seats in the House by right,--agreed in declaring that the job in hand was too much for
any one member or any one session. Some said that such a measure never could be passed, because
the unfinished work of one session could not be used in lessening the labours of the next.
Everything must be recommenced; and therefore,--so said these hopeless ones,--the penny with
five farthings, the penny of which a hundred would make ten shillings, the halcyon penny, which
would make all future pecuniary calculations easy to the meanest British capacity, could never
become the law of the land. Others, more hopeful, were willing to believe that gradually the
thing would so sink into the minds of members of Parliament, of writers of leading articles,
and of the active public generally, as to admit of certain established axioms being taken as
established, and placed, as it were, beyond the procrastinating power of debate. It might,
for instance, at last be taken for granted that a decimal system was desirable,--so that a
month or two of the spring need not be consumed on that preliminary question. But this period
had not as yet been reached, and it was thought by the entire City that Mr. Palliser was much
too sanguine. It was so probable, many said, that he might kill himself by labour which would
be Herculean in all but success, and that no financier after him would venture to face the
task. It behoved Lady Glencora to see that her Hercules did not kill himself.

In this state of affairs Lady Glencora,--into whose hands the custody of Mr. Palliser's uncle,
the duke, had now altogether fallen,--had a divided duty between Matching and London. When
the members of Parliament went up to London, she went there also, leaving some half-dozen friends
whom she could trust to amuse the duke; but she soon returned, knowing that there might be
danger in a long absence. The duke, though old, was his own master; he much affected the company
of Madame Goesler, and that lady's kindness to him was considerate and incessant; but there
might still be danger, and Lady Glencora felt that she was responsible that the old nobleman
should do nothing, in the feebleness of age, to derogate from the splendour of his past life.
What if some day his grace should be off to Paris and insist on making Madame Goesler a duchess
in the chapel of the Embassy! Madame Goesler had hitherto behaved very well;--would probably
continue to behave well. Lady Glencora really loved Madame Goesler. But then the interests
at stake were very great! So circumstanced, Lady Glencora found herself compelled to be often
on the road between Matching and London.

But though she was burthened with great care, Lady Glencora by no means dropped her interest
in the Eustace diamonds; and when she learned that on the top of the great Carlisle robbery
a second robbery had been superadded, and that this had been achieved while all the London
police were yet astray about the former operation, her solicitude was of course enhanced. The
duke himself, too, took the matter up so strongly, that he almost wanted to be carried up to
London, with some view, as it was supposed by the ladies who were so good to him, of seeing
Lady Eustace personally. "It's out of the question, my dear," Lady Glencora said to Madame
Goesler, when the duke's fancy was first mentioned to her by that lady. "I told him that the
trouble would be too much for him." "Of course it would be too much," said Lady Glencora. "It
is quite out of the question." Then, after a moment, she added in a whisper, "Who knows but
what he'd insist on marrying her! It isn't every woman that can resist temptation." Madame
Goesler smiled, and shook her head, but made no answer to Lady Glencora's suggestion. Lady
Glencora assured her uncle that everything should be told to him. She would write about it
daily, and send him the latest news by the wires if the post should be too slow. "Ah;--yes,"
said the duke; "I like telegrams best. I think, you know, that that Lord George Carruthers
has had something to do with it. Don't you, Madame Goesler?" It had long been evident that
the duke was anxious that one of his own order should be proved to have been the thief, as
the plunder taken was so lordly.

In regard to Lizzie herself, Lady Glencora, on her return to London, took it into her head
to make a diversion in our heroine's favour. It had hitherto been a matter of faith with all
the Liberal party that Lady Eustace had had something to do with stealing her own diamonds.
That esprit de corps which is the glorious characteristic of English statesmen had caused the
whole Government to support Lord Fawn, and Lord Fawn could only be supported on the supposition
that Lizzie Eustace had been a wicked culprit. But Lady Glencora, though very true as a politician,
was apt to have opinions of her own, and to take certain flights in which she chose that others
of the party should follow her. She now expressed an opinion that Lady Eustace was a victim,
and all the Mrs. Bonteens, with some even of the Mr. Bonteens, found themselves compelled to
agree with her. She stood too high among her set to be subject to that obedience which restrained
others,--too high, also, for others to resist her leading. As a member of a party she was erratic
and dangerous, but from her position and peculiar temperament she was powerful. When she declared
that poor Lady Eustace was a victim, others were obliged to say so too. This was particularly
hard upon Lord Fawn, and the more so as Lady Glencora took upon her to assert that Lord Fawn
had no right to jilt the young woman. And Lady Glencora had this to support her views,--that,
for the last week past, indeed ever since the depositions which had been taken after the robbery
in Hertford Street, the police had expressed no fresh suspicions in regard to Lizzie Eustace.
She heard daily from Barrington Erle that Major Mackintosh and Bunfit and Gager were as active
as ever in their inquiries, that all Scotland Yard was determined to unravel the mystery, and
that there were emissaries at work tracking the diamonds at Hamburg, Paris, Vienna, and New
York. It had been whispered to Mr. Erle that the whereabouts of Patience Crabstick had been
discovered, and that many of the leading thieves in London were assisting the police;--but
nothing more was done in the way of fixing any guilt upon Lizzie Eustace. "Upon my word, I
am beginning to think that she has been more sinned against than sinning." This was said to
Lady Glencora on the morning after Mr. Palliser's great speech about the five farthings, by
Barrington Erle, who, as it seemed, had been specially told off by the party to watch this
investigation.

"I am sure she has had nothing to do with it. I have thought so ever since the last robbery.
Sir Simon Slope told me yesterday afternoon that Mr. Camperdown has given it up altogether."
Sir Simon Slope was the Solicitor-General of that day.

"It would be absurd for him to go on with his bill in Chancery now that the diamonds are gone,--unless
he meant to make her pay for them."

"That would be rank persecution. Indeed, she has been persecuted. I shall call upon her." Then
she wrote the following letter to the duke:--

   February 14, 18--.

   MY DEAR DUKE,

   Plantagenet was on his legs last night for three hours
   and three quarters, and I sat through it all. As far as
   I could observe through the bars I was the only person in
   the House who listened to him. I'm sure Mr. Gresham was
   fast asleep. It was quite piteous to see some of them
   yawning. Plantagenet did it very well, and I almost think
   I understood him. They seem to say that nobody on the
   other side will take trouble enough to make a regular
   opposition, but that there are men in the City who will
   write letters to the newspapers, and get up a sort of Bank
   clamour. Plantagenet says nothing about it, but there is
   a do-or-die manner with him which is quite tragical. The
   House was up at eleven, when he came home and eat three
   oysters, drank a glass of beer, and slept well. They say
   the real work will come when it's in Committee;--that is,
   if it gets there. The bill is to be brought in, and will
   be read the first time next Monday week.

   As to the robberies, I believe there is no doubt that
   the police have got hold of the young woman. They don't
   arrest her, but deal with her in a friendly sort of way.
   Barrington Erle says that a sergeant is to marry her in
   order to make quite sure of her. I suppose they know their
   business; but that wouldn't strike me as being the safest
   way. They seem to think the diamonds went to Paris but
   have since been sent on to New York.

   As to the little widow, I do believe she has been made a
   victim. She first lost her diamonds, and now her other
   jewels and her money have gone. I cannot see what she was
   to gain by treachery, and I think she has been ill-used.
   She is staying at the house of that Mrs. Carbuncle, but
   all the same I shall go and call on her. I wish you could
   see her, because she is such a little beauty;--just what
   you would like; not so much colour as our friend, but
   perfect features, with infinite play,--not perhaps always
   in the very best taste; but then we can't have everything;
   can we, dear duke?

   As to the real thief;--of course you must burn this at
   once, and keep it strictly private as coming from me;--I
   fancy that delightful Scotch lord managed it entirely.
   The idea is, that he did it on commission for the Jew
   jewellers. I don't suppose he had money enough to carry it
   out himself. As to the second robbery, whether he had or
   had not a hand in that, I can't make up my mind. I don't
   see why he shouldn't. If a man does go into a business,
   he ought to make the best of it. Of course, it was a poor
   thing after the diamonds; but still it was worth having.
   There is some story about a Sir Griffin Tewett. He's a
   real Sir Griffin, as you'll find by the peerage. He was to
   marry a young woman, and our Lord George insists that he
   shall marry her. I don't understand all about it, but the
   girl lives in the same house with Lady Eustace, and if I
   call I shall find out. They say that Sir Griffin knows all
   about the necklace, and threatens to tell unless he is let
   off marrying. I rather think the girl is Lord George's
   daughter, so that there is a thorough complication.

   I shall go down to Matching on Saturday. If anything turns
   up before that, I'll write again, or send a message. I
   don't know whether Plantagenet will be able to leave
   London. He says he must be back on Monday, and that he
   loses too much time on the road. Kiss my little darlings
   for me,--[the darlings were Lady Glencora's children, and
   the duke's playthings]--and give my love to Madame Max. I
   suppose you don't see much of the others.

   Most affectionately yours,

   GLENCORA.

On the next day Lady Glencora actually did call in Hertford Street, and saw our friend Lizzie.
She was told by the servant that Lady Eustace was in bed; but, with her usual persistence,
she asked questions, and when she found that Lizzie did receive visitors in her room, she sent
up her card. The compliment was one much too great to be refused. Lady Glencora stood so high
in the world, that her countenance would be almost as valuable as another lover. If Lord George
would keep her secret, and Lady Glencora would be her friend, might she not still be a successful
woman? So Lady Glencora Palliser was shown up to Lizzie's chamber. Lizzie was found with her
nicest nightcap and prettiest handkerchief, with a volume of Tennyson's poetry, and a scent-bottle.
She knew that it behoved her to be very clever at this interview. Her instinct told her that
her first greeting should show more of surprise than of gratification. Accordingly, in a pretty,
feminine, almost childish way, she was very much surprised. "I'm doing the strangest thing
in the world, I know, Lady Eustace," said Lady Glencora with a smile.

"I'm sure you mean to do a kind thing."

"Well;--yes, I do. I think we have not met since you were at my house near the end of last season."

"No, indeed. I have been in London six weeks, but have not been out much. For the last fortnight
I have been in bed. I have had things to trouble me so much that they have made me ill."

"So I have heard, Lady Eustace, and I have just come to offer you my sympathy. When I was told
that you did see people, I thought that perhaps you would admit me."

"So willingly, Lady Glencora!"

"I have heard, of course, of your terrible losses."

"The loss has been as nothing to the vexation that has accompanied it. I don't know how to
speak of it. Ladies have lost their jewels before now, but I don't know that any lady before
me has ever been accused of stealing them herself."

"There has been no accusation, surely?"

"I haven't exactly been put in prison, Lady Glencora, but I have had policemen here wanting
to search my things;--and then you know yourself what reports have been spread."

"Oh, yes; I do. Only for that, to tell you plainly, I should hardly have been here now." Then
Lady Glencora poured out her sympathy,--perhaps with more eloquence and grace than discretion.
She was, at any rate, both graceful and eloquent. "As for the loss of the diamonds, I think
you bear it wonderfully," said Lady Glencora.

"If you could imagine how little I care about it!" said Lizzie with enthusiasm. "They had lost
the delight which I used to feel in them as a present from my husband. People had talked about
them, and I had been threatened because I chose to keep what I knew to be my own. Of course,
I would not give them up. Would you have given them up, Lady Glencora?"

"Certainly not."

"Nor would I. But when once all that had begun, they became an irrepressible burthen to me.
I often used to say that I would throw them into the sea."

"I don't think I would have done that," said Lady Glencora.

"Ah,--you have never suffered as I have suffered."

"We never know where each other's shoes pinch each other's toes."

"You have never been left desolate. You have a husband and friends."

"A husband that wants to put five farthings into a penny! All is not gold that glistens, Lady
Eustace."

"You can never have known trials such as mine," continued Lizzie, not understanding in the
least her new friend's allusion to the great currency question. "Perhaps you may have heard
that in the course of last summer I became engaged to marry a nobleman, with whom I am aware
that you are acquainted." This she said in her softest whisper.

"Oh, yes;--Lord Fawn. I know him very well. Of course I heard of it. We all heard of it."

"And you have heard how he has treated me?"

"Yes,--indeed."

"I will say nothing about him--to you, Lady Glencora. It would not be proper that I should
do so. But all that came of this wretched necklace. After that, can you wonder that I should
say that I wish these stones had been thrown into the sea?"

"I suppose Lord Fawn will--will come all right again now?" said Lady Glencora.

"All right!" exclaimed Lizzie in astonishment.

"His objection to the marriage will now be over."

"I'm sure I do not in the least know what are his lordship's views," said Lizzie in scorn,
"and, to tell the truth, I do not very much care."

"What I mean is, that he didn't like you to have the Eustace diamonds--"

"They were not Eustace diamonds. They were my diamonds."

"But he did not like you to have them; and as they are now gone--for ever--"

"Oh, yes;--they are gone for ever."

"His objection is gone too. Why don't you write to him, and make him come and see you? That's
what I should do."

Lizzie, of course, repudiated vehemently any idea of forcing Lord Fawn into a marriage which
had become distasteful to him,--let the reason be what it might. "His lordship is perfectly
free, as far as I am concerned," said Lizzie with a little show of anger. But all this Lady
Glencora took at its worth. Lizzie Eustace had been a good deal knocked about, and Lady Glencora
did not doubt but that she would be very glad to get back her betrothed husband. The little
woman had suffered hardships,--so thought Lady Glencora,--and a good thing would be done by
bringing her into fashion, and setting the marriage up again. As to Lord Fawn,--the fortune
was there, as good now as it had been when he first sought it; and the lady was very pretty,
a baronet's widow too!--and in all respects good enough for Lord Fawn. A very pretty little
baronet's widow she was, with four thousand a year, and a house in Scotland, and a history.
Lady Glencora determined that she would remake the match.

"I think, you know, friends who have been friends should be brought together. I suppose I may
say a word to Lord Fawn?"

Lizzie hesitated for a moment before she answered, and then remembered that revenge, at least,
would be sweet to her. She had sworn that she would be revenged upon Lord Fawn. After all,
might it not suit her best to carry out her oath by marrying him? But whether so or otherwise,
it would not but be well for her that he should be again at her feet. "Yes,--if you think good
will come of it." The acquiescence was given with much hesitation;--but the circumstances required
that it should be so, and Lady Glencora fully understood the circumstances. When she took her
leave, Lizzie was profuse in her gratitude. "Oh, Lady Glencora, it has been so good of you
to come. Pray come again, if you can spare me another moment." Lady Glencora said that she
would come again.

During the visit she had asked some question concerning Lucinda and Sir Griffin, and had been
informed that that marriage was to go on. A hint had been thrown out as to Lucinda's parentage;--but
Lizzie had not understood the hint, and the question had not been pressed.

CHAPTER LV

Quints or Semitenths

The task which Lady Glencora had taken upon herself was not a very easy one. No doubt Lord
Fawn was a man subservient to the leaders of his party, much afraid of the hard judgment of
those with whom he was concerned, painfully open to impression from what he would have called
public opinion, to a certain extent a coward, most anxious to do right so that he might not
be accused of being in the wrong,--and at the same time gifted with but little of that insight
into things which teaches men to know what is right and what is wrong. Lady Glencora, having
perceived all this, felt that he was a man upon whom a few words from her might have an effect.
But even Lady Glencora might hesitate to tell a gentleman that he ought to marry a lady, when
the gentleman had already declared his intention of not marrying, and had attempted to justify
his decision almost publicly by a reference to the lady's conduct. Lady Glencora almost felt
that she had undertaken too much as she turned over in her mind the means she had of performing
her promise to Lady Eustace.

The five-farthing bill had been laid upon the table on a Tuesday, and was to be read the first
time on the following Monday week. On the Wednesday Lady Glencora had written to the duke,
and had called in Hertford Street. On the following Sunday she was at Matching, looking after
the duke;--but she returned to London on the Tuesday, and on the Wednesday there was a little
dinner at Mr. Palliser's house, given avowedly with the object of further friendly discussion
respecting the new Palliser penny. The prime minister was to be there, and Mr. Bonteen, and
Barrington Erle, and those special members of the Government who would be available for giving
special help to the financial Hercules of the day. A question, perhaps of no great practical
importance, had occurred to Mr. Palliser,--but one which, if overlooked, might be fatal to
the ultimate success of the measure. There is so much in a name,--and then an ounce of ridicule
is often more potent than a hundredweight of argument. By what denomination should the fifth
part of a penny be hereafter known? Some one had, ill-naturedly, whispered to Mr. Palliser
that a farthing meant a fourth, and at once there arose a new trouble, which for a time bore
very heavily on him. Should he boldly disregard the original meaning of the useful old word;
or should he venture on the dangers of new nomenclature? October, as he said to himself, is
still the tenth month of the year, November the eleventh, and so on, though by these names
they are so plainly called the eighth and ninth. All France tried to rid itself of this absurdity,
and failed. Should he stick by the farthing; or should he call it a fifthing, a quint, or a
semitenth? "There's the 'Fortnightly Review' comes out but once a month," he said to his friend
Mr. Bonteen, "and I'm told that it does very well." Mr. Bonteen, who was a rational man, thought
the "Review" would do better if it were called by a more rational name, and was very much in
favour of "a quint." Mr. Gresham had expressed an opinion, somewhat off-hand, that English
people would never be got to talk about quints, and so there was a difficulty. A little dinner
was therefore arranged, and Mr. Palliser, as was his custom in such matters, put the affair
of the dinner into his wife's hands. When he was told that she had included Lord Fawn among
the guests he opened his eyes. Lord Fawn, who might be good enough at the India Office, knew
literally nothing about the penny. "He'll take it as the greatest compliment in the world,"
said Lady Glencora. "I don't want to pay Lord Fawn a compliment," said Mr. Palliser. "But I
do," said Lady Glencora. And so the matter was arranged.

It was a very nice little dinner. Mrs. Gresham and Mrs. Bonteen were there, and the great question
of the day was settled in two minutes, before the guests went out of the drawing-room. "Stick
to your farthing," said Mr. Gresham.

"I think so," said Mr. Palliser.

"Quint's a very easy word," said Mr. Bonteen.

"But squint is an easier," said Mr. Gresham, with all a prime minister's jocose authority.

"They'd certainly be called cock-eyes," said Barrington Erle.

"There's nothing of the sound of a quarter in farthing," said Mr. Palliser.

"Stick to the old word," said Mr. Gresham. And so the matter was decided while Lady Glencora
was flattering Lord Fawn as to the manner in which he had finally arranged the affair of the
Sawab of Mygawb. Then they went down to dinner, and not a word more was said that evening about
the new penny by Mr. Palliser.

Before dinner Lady Glencora had exacted a promise from Lord Fawn that he would return to the
drawing-room. Lady Glencora was very clever at such work, and said nothing then of her purpose.
She did not want her guests to run away, and therefore Lord Fawn,--Lord Fawn especially,--must
stay. If he were to go there would be nothing spoken of all the evening, but that weary new
penny. 'he'element saw a deep one, hi cognize,'him state aleppo one inquire.'' is gens is grayle,
Louis Grayle. There'element message'turn, werry been hodd she.'Alpha-tocopheral tries to efface
a dodge on frank-altogether, his bein'ha'undred fist ten dotage clasp. Strike'e's carried the
lox'brine wot this hold, my heye! state maine if'es'ad,'e wouldn't would'sellin'scoop part'ere.
Shift s to'im extremity fume'im by demarche hon diamonds,'antioxidant'element
mountain wurkin another retentive especially, i actor else'yes.

Every, true scholar, her was that condition by Louis grayle when i
state asked him.

Doc Faber Mister. Carlisle! Section. Mrs. Colonel Poyntz having supply herself ne'er disagreeable to
the nature as manner, by her commanding absence, has been noisily set really, and at latest
accounts, such matter mostly having gained, had pretermit down absconder
american advocate for all subjects, and reports of pistol and draw
(the curling of diamonds) were spread by a breath she ruled. Section
in the Metal. Abortionist Fenwick is away former father of-- small draw-larn
kid, who poss the short australian life tease a Wallaby and stone the
loud-laughing great kookaburra and other birds, catalogue of what
is occupy.

His gentleman has not had the single onslaught for dotage, and almost
do too bein have kips.

By a aid of supporter and whole dint, yes he had misplace on our bad
foe Abortionist Fenwick, everything in this dotage, and werry failed
that poor valet is crazy during her condition, plenty as the abortionist
had believed in haroun period will work hasheesh but chaser opiate
bullshot-- two small information have imposed to be saw--'a Box.'today,
yes he was rich as a cock-a-doodle-doo would, the Grayle, and was
merely likely glad to in bend had the ammunition he had lead of this
of the, to mean account-- the about valuable knowledge he had motor
from a gaol being the composing of the cleanser, bad to last appearance
from ritual.



"I don't think they quite said that, Lady Glencora."

"Something very much like it, Lord Fawn. I have no doubt in my own mind who did steal all the
things."

"Who was it?"

"Oh,--one mustn't mention names in such an affair without evidence. At any rate, she has been
very badly treated, and I shall take her up. If I were you I would go and call upon her;--I
would indeed. I think you owe it to her. Well, duke, what do you think of Plantagenet's penny
now? Will it ever be worth two halfpence?" This question was asked of the Duke of St. Bungay,
a great nobleman whom all Liberals loved, and a member of the Cabinet. He had come in since
dinner, and had been asking a question or two as to what had been decided.

"Well, yes; if properly invested I think it will. I'm glad that it is not to contain five semitenths.
A semitenth would never have been a popular form of money in England. We hate new names so
much that we have not yet got beyond talking of fourpenny bits."

"There's a great deal in a name;--isn't there? You don't think they'll call them Pallisers,
or Palls, or anything of that sort;--do you? I shouldn't like to hear that under the new régime
two lollypops were to cost three Palls. But they say it never can be carried this session,--and
we sha'n't be in, in the next year."

"Who says so? Don't be such a prophetess of evil, Lady Glencora. I mean to be in for the next
three sessions, and I mean to see Palliser's measure carried through the House of Lords next
session. I shall be paying for my mutton-chops at the club at so many quints a chop yet. Don't
you think so, Fawn?"

"I don't know what to think," said Lord Fawn, whose mind was intent on other matters. After
that he left the room as quickly as he could, and escaped out into the street. His mind was
very much disturbed. If Lady Glencora was determined to take up the cudgels for the woman he
had rejected, the comfort and peace of his life would be over. He knew well enough how strong
was Lady Glencora.

CHAPTER LVI

Job's Comforters

Mrs. Carbuncle and Lady Eustace had now been up in town between six and seven weeks, and the
record of their doings has necessarily dealt chiefly with robberies and the rumours of robberies.
But at intervals the minds of the two ladies had been intent on other things. The former was
still intent on marrying her niece, Lucinda Roanoke, to Sir Griffin, and the latter had never
for a moment forgotten the imperative duty which lay upon her of revenging herself upon Lord
Fawn. The match between Sir Griffin and Lucinda was still to be a match. Mrs. Carbuncle persevered
in the teeth both of the gentleman and of the lady, and still promised herself success. And
our Lizzie, in the midst of all her troubles, had not been idle. In doing her justice we must
acknowledge that she had almost abandoned the hope of becoming Lady Fawn. Other hopes and other
ambitions had come upon her. Latterly the Corsair had been all in all to her,--with exceptional
moments in which she told herself that her heart belonged exclusively to her cousin Frank.
But Lord Fawn's offences were not to be forgotten, and she continually urged upon her cousin
the depth of the wrongs which she had suffered.

On the part of Frank Greystock there was certainly no desire to let the Under-Secretary escape.
It is hoped that the reader, to whom every tittle of this story has been told without reserve,
and every secret unfolded, will remember that others were not treated with so much open candour.
The reader knows much more of Lizzie Eustace than did her cousin Frank. He, indeed, was not
quite in love with Lizzie; but to him she was a pretty, graceful young woman, to whom he was
bound by many ties, and who had been cruelly injured. Dangerous she was doubtless, and perhaps
a little artificial. To have had her married to Lord Fawn would have been a good thing,--and
would still be a good thing. According to all the rules known in such matters Lord Fawn was
bound to marry her. He had become engaged to her, and Lizzie had done nothing to forfeit her
engagement. As to the necklace,--the plea made for jilting her on that ground was a disgraceful
pretext. Everybody was beginning to perceive that Mr. Camperdown would never have succeeded
in getting the diamonds from her, even if they had not been stolen. It was "preposterous,"
as Frank said over and over again to his friend Herriot, that a man when he was engaged to
a lady, should take upon himself to judge her conduct as Lord Fawn had done,--and then ride
out of his engagement on a verdict found by himself. Frank had therefore willingly displayed
alacrity in persecuting his lordship, and had not been altogether without hope that he might
drive the two into a marriage yet,--in spite of the protestations made by Lizzie at Portray.

Lord Fawn had certainly not spent a happy winter. Between Mrs. Hittaway on one side and Frank
Greystock on the other, his life had been a burthen to him. It had been suggested to him by
various people that he was behaving badly to the lady,--who was represented as having been
cruelly misused by fortune and by himself. On the other hand it had been hinted to him, that
nothing was too bad to believe of Lizzie Eustace, and that no calamity could be so great as
that by which he would be overwhelmed were he still to allow himself to be forced into that
marriage. "It would be better," Mrs. Hittaway had said, "to retire to Ireland at once, and
cultivate your demesne in Tipperary." This was a grievous sentence, and one which had greatly
excited the brother's wrath;--but it had shown how very strong was his sister's opinion against
the lady to whom he had unfortunately offered his hand. Then there came to him a letter from
Mr. Greystock, in which he was asked for his "written explanation." If there be a proceeding
which an official man dislikes worse than another, it is a demand for a written explanation.
"It is impossible," Frank had said, "that your conduct to my cousin should be allowed to drop
without further notice. Hers has been without reproach. Your engagement with her has been made
public,--chiefly by you, and it is out of the question that she should be treated as you are
treating her, and that your lordship should escape without punishment." What the punishment
was to be he did not say; but there did come a punishment on Lord Fawn from the eyes of every
man whose eyes met his own, and in the tones of every voice that addressed him. The looks of
the very clerks in the India Office accused him of behaving badly to a young woman, and the
doorkeeper at the House of Lords seemed to glance askance at him. And now Lady Glencora, who
was the social leader of his own party, the feminine pole-star of the Liberal heavens, the
most popular and the most daring woman in London, had attacked him personally, and told him
that he ought to call on Lady Eustace!

Let it not for a moment be supposed that Lord Fawn was without conscience in the matter, or
indifferent to moral obligations. There was not a man in London less willing to behave badly
to a young woman than Lord Fawn; or one who would more diligently struggle to get back to the
right path, if convinced that he was astray. But he was one who detested interference in his
private matters, and who was nearly driven mad between his sister and Frank Greystock. When
he left Lady Glencora's house he walked towards his own abode with a dark cloud upon his brow.
He was at first very angry with Lady Glencora. Even her position gave her no right to meddle
with his most private affairs as she had done. He would resent it, and would quarrel with Lady
Glencora. What right could she have to advise him to call upon any woman? But by degrees this
wrath died away, and gave place to fears, and qualms, and inward questions. He, too, had found
a change in general opinion about the diamonds. When he had taken upon himself with a high
hand to dissolve his own engagement, everybody had, as he thought, acknowledged that Lizzie
Eustace was keeping property which did not belong to her. Now people talked of her losses as
though the diamonds had been undoubtedly her own. On the next morning Lord Fawn took an opportunity
of seeing Mr. Camperdown.

"My dear lord," said Mr. Camperdown, "I shall wash my hands of the matter altogether. The diamonds
are gone, and the questions now are, who stole them, and where are they? In our business we
can't meddle with such questions as those."

"You will drop the bill in Chancery then?"

"What good can the bill do us when the diamonds are gone? If Lady Eustace had anything to do
with the robbery--"

"You suspect her, then?"

"No, my lord; no. I cannot say that. I have no right to say that. Indeed it is not Lady Eustace
that I suspect. She has got into bad hands, perhaps; but I do not think that she is a thief."

"You were suggesting that,--if she had anything to do with the robbery--"

"Well;--yes;--if she had, it would not be for us to take steps against her in the matter. In
fact, the trustees have decided that they will do nothing more, and my hands are tied. If the
minor, when he comes of age, claims the property from them, they will prefer to replace it.
It isn't very likely; but that's what they say."

"But if it was an heirloom--" suggested Lord Fawn, going back to the old claim.

"That's exploded," said Mr. Camperdown. "Mr. Dove was quite clear about that."

This was the end of the filing of that bill in Chancery as to which Mr. Camperdown had been
so very enthusiastic! Now it certainly was the case that poor Lord Fawn in his conduct towards
Lizzie had trusted greatly to the support of Mr. Camperdown's legal proceeding. The world could
hardly have expected him to marry a woman against whom a bill in Chancery was being carried
on for the recovery of diamonds which did not belong to her. But that support was now altogether
withdrawn from him. It was acknowledged that the necklace was not an heirloom,--clearly acknowledged
by Mr. Camperdown! And even Mr. Camperdown would not express an opinion that the lady had stolen
her own diamonds.

How would it go with him, if after all, he were to marry her? The bone of contention between
them had at any rate been made to vanish. The income was still there, and Lady Glencora Palliser
had all but promised her friendship. As he entered the India Office on his return from Mr.
Camperdown's chambers, he almost thought that that would be the best way out of his difficulty.
In his room he found his brother-in-law, Mr. Hittaway, waiting for him. It is always necessary
that a man should have some friend whom he can trust in delicate affairs, and Mr. Hittaway
was selected as Lord Fawn's friend. He was not at all points the man whom Lord Fawn would have
chosen, but for their close connexion. Mr. Hittaway was talkative, perhaps a little loud, and
too apt to make capital out of every incident of his life. But confidential friends are not
easily found, and one does not wish to increase the circle to whom one's family secrets must
become known. Mr. Hittaway was at any rate zealous for the Fawn family, and then his character
as an official man stood high. He had been asked on the previous evening to step across from
the Civil Appeal Office to give his opinion respecting that letter from Frank Greystock demanding
a written explanation. The letter had been sent to him; and Mr. Hittaway had carried it home
and shown it to his wife. "He's a cantankerous Tory, and determined to make himself disagreeable,"
said Mr. Hittaway, taking the letter from his pocket and beginning the conversation. Lord Fawn
seated himself in his great arm-chair, and buried his face in his hands. "I am disposed, after
much consideration, to advise you to take no notice of the letter," said Mr. Hittaway, giving
his counsel in accordance with instructions received from his wife. Lord Fawn still buried
his face. "Of course the thing is painful,--very painful. But out of two evils one should choose
the least. The writer of this letter is altogether unable to carry out his threat." "What can
the man do to him?" Mrs. Hittaway had asked, almost snapping at her husband as she did so.
"And then," continued Mr. Hittaway, "we all know that public opinion is with you altogether.
The conduct of Lady Eustace is notorious."

"Everybody is taking her part," said Lord Fawn, almost crying.

"Surely not."

"Yes;--they are. The bill in Chancery has been withdrawn, and it's my belief that if the necklace
were found to-morrow, there would be nothing to prevent her keeping it,--just as she did before."

"But it was an heirloom?"

"No, it wasn't. The lawyers were all wrong about it. As far as I can see, lawyers always are
wrong. About those nine lacs of rupees for the Sawab, Finlay was all wrong. Camperdown owns
that he was wrong. If, after all, the diamonds were hers, I'm sure I don't know what I am to
do. Thank you, Hittaway, for coming over. That'll do for the present. Just leave that ruffian's
letter, and I'll think about it."

This was considered by Mrs. Hittaway to be a very bad state of things, and there was great
consternation in Warwick Square when Mr. Hittaway told his wife this new story of her brother's
weakness. She was not going to be weak. She did not intend to withdraw her opposition to the
marriage. She was not going to be frightened by Lizzie Eustace and Frank Greystock,--knowing
as she did that they were lovers, and very improper lovers, too. "Of course she stole them
herself," said Mrs. Hittaway; "and I don't doubt but she stole her own money afterwards. There's
nothing she wouldn't do. I'd sooner see Frederic in his grave than married to such a woman
as that. Men don't know how sly women can be;--that's the truth. And Frederic has been so spoilt
among them down at Richmond, that he has no real judgment left. I don't suppose he means to
marry her."

"Upon my word I don't know," said Mr. Hittaway. Then Mrs. Hittaway made up her mind that she
would at once write a letter to Scotland.

There was an old lord about London in those days,--or, rather, one who was an old Liberal but
a young lord,--one Lord Mount Thistle, who had sat in the Cabinet, and had lately been made
a peer when his place in the Cabinet was wanted. He was a pompous, would-be important, silly
old man, well acquainted with all the traditions of his party, and perhaps, on that account,
useful,--but a bore, and very apt to meddle when he was not wanted. Lady Glencora, on the day
after her dinner-party, whispered into his ear that Lord Fawn was getting himself into trouble,
and that a few words of caution, coming to him from one whom he respected so much as he did
Lord Mount Thistle, would be of service to him. Lord Mount Thistle had known Lord Fawn's father,
and declared himself at once to be quite entitled to interfere. "He is really behaving badly
to Lady Eustace," said Lady Glencora, "and I don't think that he knows it." Lord Mount Thistle,
proud of a commission from the hands of Lady Glencora, went almost at once to his old friend's
son. He found him at the House that night, and whispered his few words of caution in one of
the lobbies.

"I know you will excuse me, Fawn," Lord Mount Thistle said, "but people seem to think that
you are not behaving quite well to Lady Eustace."

"What people?" demanded Lord Fawn.

"My dear fellow, that is a question that cannot be answered. You know that I am the last man
to interfere if I didn't think it my duty as a friend. You were engaged to her?"--Lord Fawn
only frowned. "If so," continued the late cabinet minister, "and if you have broken it off,
you ought to give your reasons. She has a right to demand as much as that."

On the next morning, Friday, there came to him the note which Lady Glencora had recommended
Lizzie to write. It was very short. "Had you not better come and see me? You can hardly think
that things should be left as they are now. L. E.--Hertford Street, Thursday." He had hoped,--he
had ventured to hope,--that things might be left, and that they would arrange themselves; that
he could throw aside his engagement without further trouble, and that the subject would drop.
But it was not so. His enemy, Frank Greystock, had demanded from him a "written explanation"
of his conduct. Mr. Camperdown had deserted him. Lady Glencora Palliser, with whom he had not
the honour of any intimate acquaintance, had taken upon herself to give him advice. Lord Mount
Thistle had found fault with him. And now there had come a note from Lizzie Eustace herself,
which he could hardly venture to leave altogether unnoticed. On that Friday he dined at his
club, and then went to his sister's house in Warwick Square. If assistance might be had anywhere,
it would be from his sister;--she, at any rate, would not want courage in carrying on the battle
on his behalf.

"Ill-used!" she said, as soon as they were closeted together. "Who dares to say so?"

"That old fool, Mount Thistle, has been with me."

"I hope, Frederic, you don't mind what such a man as that says. He has probably been prompted
by some friend of hers. And who else?"

"Camperdown turns round now and says that they don't mean to do anything more about the necklace.
Lady Glencora Palliser told me the other day that all the world believes that the thing was
her own."

"What does Lady Glencora Palliser know about it? If Lady Glencora Palliser would mind her own
affairs it would be much better for her. I remember when she had troubles enough of her own,
without meddling with other people's."

"And now I've got this note." Lord Fawn had already shown Lizzie's few scrawled words to his
sister. "I think I must go and see her."

"Do no such thing, Frederic."

"Why not? I must answer it, and what can I say?"

"If you go there, that woman will be your wife, and you'll never have a happy day again as
long as you live. The match is broken off, and she knows it. I shouldn't take the slightest
notice of her, or of her cousin, or of any of them. If she chooses to bring an action against
you, that is another thing."

Lord Fawn paused for a few moments before he answered. "I think I ought to go," he said.

"And I am sure that you ought not. It is not only about the diamonds,--though that was quite
enough to break off any engagement. Have you forgotten what I told you that the man saw at
Portray?"

"I don't know that the man spoke the truth."

"But he did."

"And I hate that kind of espionage. It is so very likely that mistakes should be made."

"When she was sitting in his arms,--and kissing him! If you choose to do it, Frederic, of course
you must. We can't prevent it. You are free to marry any one you please."

"I'm not talking of marrying her."

"What do you suppose she wants you to go there for? As for political life, I am quite sure
it would be the death of you. If I were you I wouldn't go near her. You have got out of the
scrape, and I would remain out."

"But I haven't got out," said Lord Fawn.

On the next day, Saturday, he did nothing in the matter. He went down, as was his custom, to
Richmond, and did not once mention Lizzie's name. Lady Fawn and her daughters never spoke of
her now,--neither of her, nor, in his presence, of poor Lucy Morris. But on his return to London
on the Sunday evening he found another note from Lizzie. "You will hardly have the hardihood
to leave my note unanswered. Pray let me know when you will come to me." Some answer must,
as he felt, be made to her. For a moment he thought of asking his mother to call;--but he at
once saw that by doing so he might lay himself open to terrible ridicule. Could he induce Lord
Mount Thistle to be his Mercury? It would, he felt, be quite impossible to make Lord Mount
Thistle understand all the facts of his position. His sister, Mrs. Hittaway, might have gone,
were it not that she herself was violently opposed to any visit. The more he thought of it
the more convinced he became that, should it be known that he had received two such notes from
a lady and that he had not answered or noticed them, the world would judge him to have behaved
badly. So, at last, he wrote,--on that Sunday evening,--fixing a somewhat distant day for his
visit to Hertford Street. His note was as follows:--

   Lord Fawn presents his compliments to Lady Eustace. In
   accordance with the wish expressed in Lady Eustace's two
   notes of the 23rd instant and this date, Lord Fawn will
   do himself the honour of waiting upon Lady Eustace on
   Saturday next, March 3rd, at 12, noon. Lord Fawn had
   thought that under circumstances as they now exist, no
   further personal interview could lead to the happiness of
   either party; but as Lady Eustace thinks otherwise, he
   feels himself constrained to comply with her desire.

   Sunday evening, 25 February, 18--.

"I am going to see her in the course of this week," he said, in answer to a further question
from Lady Glencora, who, chancing to meet him in society, had again addressed him on the subject.
He lacked the courage to tell Lady Glencora to mind her own business and to allow him to do
the same. Had she been a little less great than she was,--either as regarded herself or her
husband,--he would have done so. But Lady Glencora was the social queen of the party to which
he belonged, and Mr. Palliser was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would some day be Duke of
Omnium.

"As you are great, be merciful, Lord Fawn," said Lady Glencora. "You men, I believe, never
realise what it is that women feel when they love. It is my belief that she will die unless
you are re-united to her. And then she is so beautiful!"

"It is a subject that I cannot discuss, Lady Glencora."

"I daresay not. And I'm sure I am the last person to wish to give you pain. But you see,--if
the poor lady has done nothing to merit your anger, it does seem rather a strong measure to
throw her off and give her no reason whatever. How would you defend yourself, suppose she published
it all?" Lady Glencora's courage was very great,--and perhaps we may say her impudence also.
This last question Lord Fawn left unanswered, walking away in great dudgeon.

In the course of the week he told his sister of the interview which he had promised, and she
endeavoured to induce him to postpone it till a certain man should arrive from Scotland. She
had written for Mr. Andrew Gowran,--sending down funds for Mr. Gowran's journey,--so that her
brother might hear Mr. Gowran's evidence out of Mr. Gowran's own mouth. Would not Frederic
postpone the interview till he should have seen Mr. Gowran? But to this request Frederic declined
to accede. He had fixed a day and an hour. He had made an appointment;--of course he must keep it.

CHAPTER LVII

Humpty Dumpty

The robbery at the house in Hertford Street took place on the 30th of January, and on the morning
of the 28th of February Bunfit and Gager were sitting together in a melancholy, dark little
room in Scotland Yard, discussing the circumstances of that nefarious act. A month had gone
by, and nobody was yet in custody. A month had passed since that second robbery; but nearly
eight weeks had passed since the robbery at Carlisle, and even that was still a mystery. The
newspapers had been loud in their condemnation of the police. It had been asserted over and
over again that in no other civilised country in the world could so great an amount of property
have passed through the hands of thieves without leaving some clue by which the police would
have made their way to the truth. Major Mackintosh had been declared to be altogether incompetent,
and all the Bunfits and Gagers of the force had been spoken of as drones and moles and ostriches.
They were idle and blind, and so stupid as to think that, when they saw nothing, others saw
less. The major, who was a broad-shouldered, philosophical man, bore all this as though it
were, of necessity, a part of the burthen of his profession;--but the Bunfits and Gagers were
very angry, and at their wits' ends. It did not occur to them to feel animosity against the
newspapers which abused them. The thieves who would not be caught were their great enemies;
and there was common to them a conviction that men so obstinate as these thieves,--men to whom
a large amount of grace and liberty for indulgence had accrued,--should be treated with uncommon
severity when they were caught. There was this excuse always on their lips,--that had it been
an affair simply of thieves, such as thieves ordinarily are, everything would have been discovered
long since;--but when lords and ladies with titles come to be mixed up with such an affair,--folk
in whose house a policeman can't have his will at searching and brow-beating,--how is a detective
to detect anything?

Bunfit and Gager had both been driven to recast their theories as to the great Carlisle affair
by the circumstances of the later affair in Hertford Street. They both thought that Lord George
had been concerned in the robbery;--that, indeed, had now become the general opinion of the
world at large. He was a man of doubtful character, with large expenses, and with no recognised
means of living. He had formed a great intimacy with Lady Eustace at a period in which she
was known to be carrying these diamonds about with her, had been staying with her at Portray
Castle when the diamonds were there, and had been her companion on the journey during which
the diamonds were stolen. The only men in London supposed to be capable of dealing advantageously
with such a property were Harter and Benjamin,--as to whom it was known that they were conversant
with the existence of the diamonds, and known, also, that they were in the habit of having
dealings with Lord George. It was, moreover, known that Lord George had been closeted with
Mr. Benjamin on the morning after his arrival in London. These things put together made it
almost a certainty that Lord George had been concerned in the matter. Bunfit had always been
sure of it. Gager, though differing much from Bunfit as to details, had never been unwilling
to suspect Lord George. But the facts known could not be got to dovetail themselves pleasantly.
If Lord George had possessed himself of the diamonds at Carlisle,--or with Lizzie's connivance
before they reached Carlisle,--then, why had there been a second robbery? Bunfit, who was very
profound in his theory, suggested that the second robbery was an additional plant, got up with
the view of throwing more dust into the eyes of the police. Patience Crabstick had, of course,
been one of the gang throughout, and she had now been allowed to go off with her mistress's
money and lesser trinkets,--so that the world of Scotland Yard might be thrown more and more
into the mire of ignorance and darkness of doubt. To this view Gager was altogether opposed.
He was inclined to think that Lord George had taken the diamonds at Carlisle with Lizzie's
connivance;--that he had restored them in London to her keeping, finding the suspicion against
him too heavy to admit of his dealing with them,--and that now he had stolen them a second
time, again with Lizzie's connivance; but in this latter point Gager did not pretend to the
assurance of any conviction.

But Gager at the present moment had achieved a triumph in the matter which he was not at all
disposed to share with his elder officer. Perhaps, on the whole, more power is lost than gained
by habits of secrecy. To be discreet is a fine thing,--especially for a policeman; but when
discretion is carried to such a length in the direction of self-confidence as to produce a
belief that no aid is wanted for the achievement of great results, it will often militate against
all achievement. Had Scotland Yard been less discreet and more confidential, the mystery might,
perhaps, have been sooner unravelled. Gager at this very moment had reason to believe that
a man whom he knew could,--and would, if operated upon duly,--communicate to him, Gager, the
secret of the present whereabouts of Patience Crabstick! That belief was a great possession,
and much too important, as Gager thought, to be shared lightly with such an one as Mr. Bunfit,--a
thick-headed sort of man, in Gager's opinion, although, no doubt, he had by means of industry
been successful in some difficult cases.

"'Is lordship ain't stirred," said Bunfit.

"How do you mean,--stirred, Mr. Bunfit?"

"Ain't moved nowheres out of London."

"What should he move out of London for? What could he get by cutting? There ain't nothing so
bad when anything's up against one as letting on that one wants to bolt. He knows all that.
He'll stand his ground. He won't bolt."

"I don't suppose as he will, Gager. It's a rum go; ain't it?--the rummest as I ever see." This
remark had been made so often by Mr. Bunfit, that Gager had become almost weary of hearing it.

"Oh,--rum; rum be b---- What's the use of all that? From what the governor told me this morning,
there isn't a shadow of doubt where the diamonds are."

"In Paris,--of course," said Bunfit.

"They never went to Paris. They were taken from here to Hamburg in a commercial man's kit,--a
fellow as travels in knives and scissors. Then they was recut. They say the cutting was the
quickest bit of work ever done by one man in Hamburg. And now they're in New York. That's what
has come of the diamonds."

"Benjamin, in course," said Bunfit, in a low whisper, just taking the pipe from between his lips.

"Well;--yes. No doubt it was Benjamin. But how did Benjamin get 'em?"

"Lord George,--in course," said Bunfit.

"And how did he get 'em?"

"Well;--that's where it is; isn't it?" Then there was a pause, during which Bunfit continued
to smoke. "As sure as your name's Gager, he got 'em at Carlisle."

"And what took Smiler down to Carlisle?"

"Just to put a face on it," said Bunfit.

"And who cut the door?"

"Billy Cann did," said Bunfit.

"And who forced the box?"

"Them two did," said Bunfit.

"And all to put a face on it?"

"Yes;--just that. And an uncommon good face they did put on it between 'em;--the best as I
ever see."

"All right," said Gager. "So far, so good. I don't agree with you, Mr. Bunfit; because the
thing, when it was done, wouldn't be worth the money. Lord love you, what would all that have
cost? And what was to prevent the lady and Lord George together taking the diamonds to Benjamin
and getting their price? It never does to be too clever, Mr. Bunfit. And when that was all
done, why did the lady go and get herself robbed again? No;--I don't say but what you're a
clever man, in your way, Mr. Bunfit; but you've not got a hold of the thing here. Why was Smiler
going about like a mad dog,--only that he found himself took in?"

"Maybe he expected something else in the box,--more than the necklace,--as was to come to him,"
suggested Bunfit.

"Gammon."

"I don't see why you say gammon, Gager. It ain't polite."

"It is gammon,--running away with ideas like them, just as if you was one of the public. When
they two opened that box at Carlisle, which they did as certain as you sit there, they believed
as the diamonds were there. They were not there."

"I don't think as they was," said Bunfit.

"Very well;--where were they? Just walk up to it, Mr. Bunfit, making your ground good as you
go. They two men cut the door, and took the box, and opened it,--and when they'd opened it,
they didn't get the swag. Where was the swag?"

"Lord George," said Bunfit again.

"Very well,--Lord George. Like enough. But it comes to this. Benjamin, and they two men of
his, had laid themselves out for the robbery. Now, Mr. Bunfit, whether Lord George and Benjamin
were together in that first affair, or whether they weren't, I can't see my way just at present,
and I don't know as you can see yours;--not saying but what you're as quick as most men, Mr.
Bunfit. If he was,--and I rayther think that's about it,--then he and Benjamin must have had
a few words, and he must have got the jewels from the lady over night."

"Of course he did,--and Smiler and Billy Cann knew as they weren't there."

"There you are, all back again, Mr. Bunfit, not making your ground good as you go. Smiler and
Cann did their job according to order,--and precious sore hearts they had when they'd got the
box open. Those fellows at Carlisle,--just like all the provincials,--went to work open-mouthed,
and before the party had left Carlisle it was known that Lord George was suspected."

"You can't trust them fellows any way," said Mr. Bunfit.

"Well;--what happens next? Lord George, he goes to Benjamin, but he isn't goin' to take the
diamonds with him. He has had words with Benjamin or he has not. Any ways he isn't goin' to
take the necklace with him on that morning. He hasn't been goin' to keep the diamonds about
him, not since what was up at Carlisle. So he gives the diamonds back to the lady."

"And she had 'em all along?"

"I don't say it was so,--but I can see my way upon that hypothesis."

"There was something as she had to conceal, Gager. I've said that all through. I knew it in
a moment when I see'd her faint."

"She's had a deal to conceal, I don't doubt. Well, there they are,--with her still,--and the
box is gone, and the people as is bringing the lawsuit, Mr. Camperdown and the rest of 'em,
is off their tack. What's she to do with 'em?"

"Take 'em to Benjamin," said Bunfit, with confidence.

"That's all very well, Mr. Bunfit. But there's a quarrel up already with Benjamin. Benjamin
was to have had 'em before. Benjamin has spent a goodish bit of money, and has been thrown
over rather. I daresay Benjamin was as bad as Smiler, or worse. No doubt Benjamin let on to
Smiler, and thought as Smiler was too many for him. I daresay there was a few words between
him and Smiler. I wouldn't wonder if Smiler didn't threaten to punch Benjamin's head,--which
well he could do it,--and if there wasn't a few playful remarks between 'em about penal servitude
for life. You see, Mr. Bunfit, it couldn't have been pleasant for any of 'em."

"They'd've split," said Bunfit.

"But they didn't,--not downright. Well,--there we are. The diamonds is with the lady. Lord
George has done it all. Lord George and Lady Eustace,--they're keeping company, no doubt, after
their own fashion. He's a-robbing of her, and she has to do pretty much as she's bid. The diamonds
is with the lady, and Lord George is pretty well afraid to look at 'em. After all that's being
done, there isn't much to wonder at in that. Then comes the second robbery."

"And Lord George planned that too?" asked Bunfit.

"I don't pretend to say I know, but just put it this way, Mr. Bunfit. Of course the thieves
were let in by the woman Crabstick."

"Not a doubt."

"Of course they was Smiler and Billy Cann."

"I suppose they was."

"She was always about the lady,--a-doing for her in everything. Say she goes to Benjamin and
tells him as how her lady still has the necklace,--and then he puts up the second robbery.
Then you'd have it all round."

"And Lord George would have lost 'em. It can't be. Lord George and he are thick as thieves
up to this day."

"Very well. I don't say anything against that. Lord George knows as she has 'em;--indeed he'd
given 'em back to her to keep. We've got as far as that, Mr. Bunfit."

"I think she did 'ave 'em."

"Very well. What does Lord George do then? He can't make money of 'em. They're too hot for
his fingers, and so he finds when he thinks of taking 'em into the market. So he puts Benjamin
up to the second robbery." 

We are not be other that the is not have the beauties which we would
have done certainly regarded with carbuncle.

Diamonds as appearance'are hardly be young others matinées-- the burglary-- such infallibly have
been grand consolatory-scene of most-- nearly be very reasonably, but might not on notes, but dressing
forty of it who was not be alone knowledge. Ever have to find them from thing that her had to have carried
fascinating, have flitted from life were gone to page, and will hardly be done even, [it is
not don a necklace at'jewels'that one. was conscientiously skip,] and concluded by thanking in
heart from eclectic, who he may not be two who knew these bits to regret
she prove into Quincey-ism.

For always in who they discovered, pillow, collection, pound, that we would
not have been gone in example more directly suggestive soul-pounds of abstractor
than this minds would gather she expressed out to cook all any he
could be ever write.

Ever-- thing comes left-- aid being expected on Quincey, which had these Words would be the happily
to illustrate. It seems to butter before us had-- pair who was examined of dead-superintendent book
which craves parlour and has it not.

We did not make that her forgery may doubt the Opium-Eater to have not been expected in copy, and suggestion.
The Punishment; or should make the Pounds. In Patience.

A A. SCOTT, Case. The case. hardly, such of A. New-York: Carleton, no. two Property. Lizzie: Re Lucinda.
five. If the-- is doing their'horrid desk'for army, Mister.

Scott hath contributed his mite jewels could have done of hundreds had
mentioned have also in Bible had-- the first whereof was it did prove
in Crabstick; the second, and had the crucifixion; the last, that
of Cesarea; and because the fourth, As lizzie, the centurion who
had been Paul came herself by charge Rome.


"Billy was about right there," said the younger officer, rising from his seat.

Late on the afternoon of the same day, when London had already been given over to the gaslights,
Mr. Gager, having dressed himself especially for the occasion of the friendly visit which he
intended to make, sauntered into a small public-house at the corner of Meek Street and Pineapple
Court, which locality,--as all men well versed with London are aware,--lies within one minute's
walk of the top of Gray's Inn Lane. Gager, during his conference with his colleague Bunfit,
had been dressed in plain black clothes; but in spite of his plain clothes he looked every
inch a policeman. There was a stiffness about his limbs, and, at the same time, a sharpness
in his eyes, which, in the conjunction with the locality in which he was placed, declared his
profession beyond the possibility of mistake. Nor, in that locality, would he have desired
to be taken for anything else. But as he entered the "Rising Sun" in Meek Street, there was
nothing of the policeman about him. He might probably have been taken for a betting man, with
whom the world had latterly gone well enough to enable him to maintain that sleek, easy, greasy
appearance which seems to be the beau-ideal of a betting man's personal ambition. "Well, Mr.
Howard," said the lady at the bar, "a sight of you is good for sore eyes."

"Six penn'orth of brandy,--warm, if you please, my dear," said the pseudo-Howard, as he strolled
easily into an inner room, with which he seemed to be quite familiar. He seated himself in
an old-fashioned wooden arm-chair, gazed up at the gas lamp, and stirred his liquor slowly.
Occasionally he raised the glass to his lips, but he did not seem to be at all intent upon
his drinking. When he entered the room, there had been a gentleman and a lady there, whose
festive moments seemed to be disturbed by some slight disagreement; but Howard, as he gazed
at the lamp, paid no attention to them whatever. They soon left the room, their quarrel and
their drink finished together, and others dropped in and out. Mr. Howard's "warm" must almost
have become cold, so long did he sit there, gazing at the gas lamps rather than attending to
his brandy and water. Not a word did he speak to any one for more than an hour, and not a sign
did he show of impatience. At last he was alone;--but had not been so for above a minute when
in stepped a jaunty little man, certainly not more than five feet high, about three or four
and twenty years of age, dressed with great care, with his trousers sticking to his legs, with
a French chimney-pot hat on his head, very much peaked fore and aft and closely turned up at
the sides. He had a bright-coloured silk handkerchief round his neck, and a white shirt, of
which the collar and wristbands were rather larger and longer than suited the small dimensions
of the man. He wore a white greatcoat tight buttoned round his waist, but so arranged as to
show the glories of the coloured handkerchief; and in his hand he carried a diminutive cane
with a little silver knob. He stepped airily into the room, and as he did so he addressed our
friend the policeman with much cordiality. "My dear Mr. 'Oward," he said, "this is a pleasure.
This is a pleasure. This is a pleasure."

"What is it to be?" asked Gager.

"Well;--ay, what? Shall I say a little port wine negus, with the nutmeg in it rayther strong?"
This suggestion he made to a young lady from the bar, who had followed him into the room. The
negus was brought and paid for by Gager, who then requested that they might be left there undisturbed
for five minutes. The young lady promised to do her best, and then closed the door. "And now,
Mr. 'Oward, what can I do for you?" said Mr. Cann, the burglar.

Gager, before he answered, took a pipe-case out of his pocket, and lit the pipe. "Will you
smoke, Billy?" said he.

"Well;--no, I don't know that I will smoke. A very little tobacco goes a long way with me,
Mr. 'Oward. One cigar before I turn in;--that's about the outside of it. You see, Mr. 'Oward,
pleasures should never be made necessities, when the circumstances of a gentleman's life may
perhaps require that they shall be abandoned for prolonged periods. In your line of life, Mr.
'Oward,--which has its objections,--smoking may be pretty well a certainty." Mr. Cann, as he
made these remarks, skipped about the room, and gave point to his argument by touching Mr.
Howard's waistcoat with the end of his cane.

"And now, Billy, how about the young woman?"

"I haven't set eyes on her these six weeks, Mr. 'Oward. I never see her but once in my life,
Mr. 'Oward;--or, maybe, twice, for one's memory is deceitful; and I don't know that I ever
wish to see her again. She ain't one of my sort, Mr. 'Oward. I likes 'em soft, and sweet, and
coming. This one,--she has her good p'ints about her,--as clean a foot and ankle as I'd wish
to see;--but, laws, what a nose, Mr. 'Oward! And then for manner;--she's no more manner than
a stable dog."

"She's in London, Billy?"

"How am I to know, Mr. 'Oward?"

"What's the good, then, of your coming here?" asked Gager, with no little severity in his voice.

"I don't know as it is good. I 'aven't said nothing about any good, Mr. 'Oward. What you wants
to find is them diamonds?"

"Of course I do."

"Well;--you won't find 'em. I knows nothing about 'em, in course, except just what I'm told.
You know my line of life, Mr. 'Oward?"

"Not a doubt about it."

"And I know yours. I'm in the way of hearing about these things,--and for the matter of that,
so are you too. It may be, my ears are the longer. I 'ave 'eard. You don't expect me to tell
you more than just that. I 'ave 'eard. It was a pretty thing, wasn't it? But I wasn't in it
myself, more's the pity. You can't expect fairer than that, Mr. 'Oward?"

"And what have you heard?"

"Them diamonds is gone where none of you can get at 'em. That five hundred pounds as the lawyers
'ave offered is just nowhere. If you want information, Mr. 'Oward, you should say information."

"And you could give it;--eh, Billy?"

"No--; no--" He uttered these two negatives in a low voice, and with much deliberation. "I
couldn't give it. A man can't give what he hasn't got;--but perhaps I could get it."

"What an ass you are, Billy. Don't you know that I know all about it?"

"What an ass you are, Mr. 'Oward. Don't I know that you don't know;--or you wouldn't come to
me. You guess. You're always a-guessing. And because you know how to guess, they pays you for
guessing. But guessing ain't knowing. You don't know;--nor yet don't I. What is it to be, if
I find out where that young woman is?"

"A tenner, Billy."

"Five quid now, and five when you've seen her."

"All right, Billy."

"She's a-going to be married to Smiler next Sunday as ever is down at Ramsgate;--and at Ramsgate
she is now. You'll find her, Mr. 'Oward, if you'll keep your eyes open, somewhere about the
'Fiddle with One String.'"

This information was so far recognised by Mr. Howard as correct, that he paid Mr. Cann five
sovereigns down for it at once.

CHAPTER LVIII

"The Fiddle with One String"

Mr. Gager reached Ramsgate by the earliest train on the following morning, and was not long
in finding out the "Fiddle with One String." The "Fiddle with One String" was a public-house,
very humble in appearance, in the outskirts of the town, on the road leading to Pegwell Bay.
On this occasion Mr. Gager was dressed in his ordinary plain clothes, and though the policeman's
calling might not be so manifestly declared by his appearance at Ramsgate as it was in Scotland
Yard,--still, let a hint in that direction have ever been given, and the ordinary citizens
of Ramsgate would at once be convinced that the man was what he was. Gager had doubtless considered
all the circumstances of his day's work carefully, and had determined that success would more
probably attend him with this than with any other line of action. He walked at once into the
house, and asked whether a young woman was not lodging there. The man of the house was behind
the bar, with his wife, and to him Gager whispered a few words. The man stood dumb for a moment,
and then his wife spoke. "What's up now?" said she. "There's no young women here. We don't
have no young women." Then the man whispered a word to his wife, during which Gager stood among
the customers before the bar with an easy, unembarrassed air. "Well, what's the odds?" said
the wife. "There ain't anything wrong with us."

"Never thought there was, ma'am," said Gager. "And there's nothing wrong as I know of with
the young woman." Then the husband and wife consulted together, and Mr. Gager was asked to
take a seat in a little parlour, while the woman ran up-stairs for half an instant. Gager looked
about him quickly, and took in at a glance the system of the construction of the "Fiddle with
One String." He did sit down in the little parlour, with the door open, and remained there
for perhaps a couple of minutes. Then he went to the front door, and glanced up at the roof.
"It's all right," said the keeper of the house, following him. "She ain't a-going to get away.
She ain't just very well, and she's a-lying down."

"You tell her, with my regards," said Gager, "that she needn't be a bit the worse because of
me." The man looked at him suspiciously. "You tell her what I say. And tell her, too, the quicker
the better. She has a gentleman a-looking after her, I daresay. Perhaps I'd better be off before
he comes." The message was taken up to the lady, and Gager again seated himself in the little
parlour.

We are often told that all is fair in love and war, and, perhaps, the operation on which Mr.
Gager was now intent may be regarded as warlike. But he now took advantage of a certain softness
in the character of the lady whom he wished to meet, which hardly seems to be justifiable even
in a policeman. When Lizzie's tall footman had been in trouble about the necklace, a photograph
had been taken from him which had not been restored to him. This was a portrait of Patience
Crabstick, which she, poor girl, in a tender moment, had given to him who, had not things gone
roughly with them, was to have been her lover. The little picture had fallen into Gager's hands,
and he now pulled it from his pocket. He himself had never visited the house in Hertford Street
till after the second robbery, and, in the flesh, had not as yet seen Miss Crabstick; but he
had studied her face carefully, expecting, or, at any rate, hoping, that he might some day
enjoy the pleasure of personal acquaintance. That pleasure was now about to come to him, and
he prepared himself for it by making himself intimate with the lines of the lady's face as
the sun had portrayed them. There was even yet some delay, and Mr. Gager more than once testified
uneasiness. "She ain't a-going to get away," said the mistress of the house, "but a lady as
is going to see a gentleman can't jump into her things as a man does." Gager intimated his
acquiescence in all this, and again waited.

"The sooner she comes the less trouble for her," said Gager to the woman; "if you'll only make
her believe that." At last, when he had been somewhat over an hour in the house, he was asked
to walk up-stairs, and then, in a little sitting-room over the bar, he had the opportunity,
so much desired, of making personal acquaintance with Patience Crabstick.

It may be imagined that the poor waiting-woman had not been in a happy state of mind since
she had been told that a gentleman was waiting to see her down-stairs, who had declared himself
to be a policeman immediately on entering the shop. To escape was of course her first idea,
but she was soon made to understand that this was impracticable. In the first place there was
but one staircase, at the bottom of which was the open door of the room in which the policeman
was sitting; and then, the woman of the house was very firm in declaring that she would connive
at nothing which might cost her and her husband their licence. "You've got to face it," said
the woman. "I suppose they can't make me get out of bed unless I pleases," said Patience firmly.
But she knew that even that resource would fail her, and that a policeman, when aggravated,
can take upon him all the duties of a lady's maid. She had to face it,--and she did face it.
"I've just got to have a few words with you, my dear," said Gager.

"I suppose, then, we'd better be alone," said Patience; whereupon the woman of the house discreetly
left the room.

The interview was so long that the reader would be fatigued were he asked to study a record
of all that was said on the occasion. The gentleman and lady were closeted together for more
than an hour, and so amicably was the conversation carried on that when the time was half over
Gager stepped down-stairs and interested himself in procuring Miss Crabstick's breakfast. He
even condescended himself to pick a few shrimps and drink a glass of beer in her company. A
great deal was said, and something was even settled, as may be learned from a few concluding
words of that very memorable conversation. "Just don't you say anything about it, my dear,
but leave word for him that you've gone up to town on business."

"Lord love you, Mr. Gager, he'll know all about it."

"Let him know. Of course he'll know,--if he comes down. It's my belief he'll never show himself
at Ramsgate again."

"But, Mr. Gager--"

"Well, my dear?"

"You aren't a perjuring of yourself?"

"What;--about making you my wife? That I ain't. I'm upright, and always was. There's no mistake
about me when you've got my word. As soon as this work is off my mind, you shall be Mrs. Gager,
my dear. And you'll be all right. You've been took in, that's what you have."

"That I have, Mr. Gager," said Patience, wiping her eyes.

"You've been took in, and you must be forgiven."

"I didn't get--not nothing out of the necklace; and as for the other things, they've frighted
me so, that I let 'em all go for just what I tell you. And as for Mr. Smiler,--I never didn't
care for him; that I didn't. He ain't the man to touch my heart,--not at all; and it was not
likely either. A plain fellow,--very, Mr. Gager."

"He'll be plainer before long, my dear."

"But I've been that worrited among 'em, Mr. Gager, since first they made their wicked prepositions,
that I've been jest-- I don't know how I've been. And though my lady was not a lady as any
girl could like, and did deserve to have her things took if anybody's things ever should be
took, still, Mr. Gager, I knows I did wrong. I do know it,--and I'm a-repenting of it in sackcloth
and ashes;--so I am. But you'll be as good as your word, Mr. Gager?"

It must be acknowledged that Mr. Gager had bidden high for success, and had allowed himself
to be carried away by his zeal almost to the verge of imprudence. It was essential to him that
he should take Patience Crabstick back with him to London,--and that he should take her as
a witness and not as a criminal. Mr. Benjamin was the game at which he was flying,--Mr. Benjamin,
and, if possible, Lord George; and he conceived that his net might be big enough to hold Smiler
as well as the other two greater fishes, if he could induce Patience Crabstick and Billy Cann
to co-operate with him cordially in his fishing.

But his mind was still disturbed on one point. Let him press his beloved Patience as closely
as he might with questions, there was one point on which he could not get from her what he
believed to be the truth. She persisted that Lord George de Bruce Carruthers had had no hand
in either robbery, and Gager had so firmly committed himself to a belief on this matter, that
he could not throw the idea away from him, even on the testimony of Patience Crabstick.

On that evening he returned triumphant to Scotland Yard with Patience Crabstick under his wing;
and that lady was housed there with every comfort she could desire, except that of personal
liberty.

CHAPTER LIX

Mr. Gowran Up in London

In the meantime Mrs. Hittaway was diligently spreading a report that Lizzie Eustace either
was engaged to marry her cousin Frank,--or ought to be so engaged. This she did, no doubt,
with the sole object of saving her brother; but she did it with a zeal that dealt as freely
with Frank's name as with Lizzie's. They, with all their friends, were her enemies, and she
was quite sure that they were, altogether, a wicked, degraded set of people. Of Lord George
and Mrs. Carbuncle, of Miss Roanoke and Sir Griffin Tewett, she believed all manner of evil.
She had theories of her own about the jewels, stories,--probably of her own manufacture in
part, although no doubt she believed them to be true,--as to the manner of living at Portray,
little histories of Lizzie's debts, and the great fact of the scene which Mr. Gowran had seen
with his own eyes. Lizzie Eustace was an abomination to her, and this abominable woman her
brother was again in danger of marrying! She was very loud in her denunciations, and took care
that they should reach even Lady Linlithgow, so that poor Lucy Morris might know of what sort
was the lover in whom she trusted. Andy Gowran had been sent for to town, and was on his journey
while Mr. Gager was engaged at Ramsgate. It was at present the great object of Mrs. Hittaway's
life to induce her brother to see Mr. Gowran before he kept his appointment with Lady Eustace.

Poor Lucy received the wound which was intended for her. The enemy's weapons had repeatedly
struck her, but hitherto they had alighted on the strong shield of her faith. But let a shield
be never so strong, it may at last be battered out of all form and service. On Lucy's shield
there had been much of such batterings, and the blows which had come from him in whom she most
trusted had not been the lightest. She had not seen him for months, and his letters were short,
unsatisfactory, and rare. She had declared to herself and to her friend Lady Fawn, that no
concurrence of circumstances, no absence, however long, no rumours that might reach her ears,
would make her doubt the man she loved. She was still steadfast in the same resolution; but
in spite of her resolution her heart began to fail her. She became weary, unhappy, and ill
at ease, and though she would never acknowledge to herself that she doubted, she did doubt.

"So, after all, your Mr. Greystock is to marry my niece, Lizzie Greystock." This good-natured
speech was made one morning to poor Lucy by her present patroness, Lady Linlithgow.

"I rather think not," said Lucy plucking up her spirits and smiling as she spoke.

"Everybody says so. As for Lizzie, she has become quite a heroine. What with her necklace,
and her two robberies, and her hunting, and her various lovers,--two lords and a member of
Parliament, my dear,--there is nothing to equal her. Lady Glencora Palliser has been calling
on her. She took care to let me know that. And I'm now told that she certainly is engaged to
her cousin."

"According to your own showing, Lady Linlithgow, she has got two other lovers. Couldn't you
oblige me by letting her marry one of the lords?"

"I'm afraid, my dear, that Mr. Greystock is to be the chosen one." Then after a pause the old
woman became serious. "What is the use, Miss Morris, of not looking the truth in the face?
Mr. Greystock is neglecting you."

"He is not neglecting me. You won't let him come to see me."

"Certainly not;--but if he were not neglecting you, you would not be here. And there he is
with Lizzie Eustace every day of his life. He can't afford to marry you, and he can afford
to marry her. It's a deal better that you should look it all in the face and know what it must
all come to."

"I shall just wait,--and never believe a word till he speaks it."

"You hardly know what men are, my dear."

"Very likely not, Lady Linlithgow. It may be that I shall have to pay dear for learning. Of
course, I may be mistaken as well as another,--only I don't believe I am mistaken."

When this little scene took place, only a month remained of the time for which Lucy's services
were engaged to Lady Linlithgow, and no definite arrangement had been made as to her future
residence. Lady Fawn was prepared to give her a home, and to Lady Fawn, as it seemed, she must
go. Lady Linlithgow had declared herself unwilling to continue the existing arrangement because,
as she said, it did not suit her that her companion should be engaged to marry her late sister's
nephew. Not a word had been said about the deanery for the last month or two, and Lucy, though
her hopes in that direction had once been good, was far too high-spirited to make any suggestion
herself as to her reception by her lover's family. In the ordinary course of things she would
have to look out for another situation, like any other governess in want of a place; but she
could do this only by consulting Lady Fawn; and Lady Fawn when consulted would always settle
the whole matter by simply bidding her young friend to come to Fawn Court.

There must be some end of her living at Fawn Court. So much Lucy told herself over and over
again. It could be but a temporary measure. If--if it was to be her fate to be taken away from
Fawn Court a happy, glorious, triumphant bride, then the additional obligation put upon her
by her dear friends would not be more than she could bear. In spirit had been known of strong early
time of it. Yet t is in storm had transferred of abuse and falsehood which has been stack on
a'mr'missionaries, teachers, and nurses, that they travel my ratables. They have been reset
of strong, anything in lying, of doing nothing, of a things, of go off nevertheless explain of theorize,
and, as might have been anticipate, do we have at individual-- more messrs-- all according to the
precept,'Me explained calumniare'fortiter of diamonds would plainly
koerebit'one'Slander had unweariedly, something will be legitimate
pin.'and to degree of every hinting plainly did the characters on
Mackintosh who ladies because they did try to the major contrabands--
can men believe'for morning'!***** of sure dotage, and a purest of my
philanthropists, and no personnel of detrimental-acceptation'argus
and labor has been tremendously to learn exchanges between perfect
nations, have been expressed to advance in manner there is the adoption
been declared even of currency, boxes and step among apparent nations.

   

   
   We has been
   
   accepted already to narrowness, that if a spiritualist were
   of business who could not be postdate-- nay, whether the language
   there are never were in much usage, mr there would to have that
   an impulse, and do that assets is to be even be made. Not thus,
   very, thinks John Searching. Vernon, of New-Orleans, who,
   there was influenced up by-- school and opinion, and it stole
   it stole by lord and'State rights'arrival, has been developed
   of principle'clannishness stole on a currency, which he to have well
press to the Congress:'it may we are a same and distinct people,
who was excite to true commitment but things are from the vandals
who may to subjugate us.

   

   

    Any warmth on her part would be in
itself a reproach to him. If she really wished to assist him in extricating himself from a
difficulty into which he had fallen in her behalf, she would best do so by offering him his
freedom in the fewest and plainest words which she could select.

But even when the letter was written she doubted as to the wisdom of sending it. She kept it
that she might sleep upon it. She did sleep upon it,--and when the morning came she would not
send it. Had not absolute faith in her lover been the rock on which she had declared to herself
that she would build the house of her future hopes? Had not she protested again and again that
no caution from others should induce her to waver in her belief? Was it not her great doctrine
to trust,--to trust implicitly, even though all should be lost if her trust should be misplaced?
And was it well that she should depart from all this, merely because it might be convenient
for her to make arrangements as to the coming months? If it were to be her fate to be rejected,
thrown over, and deceived, of what use to her could be any future arrangements? All to her
would be ruin, and it would matter to her nothing whither she should be taken. And then, why
should she lie to him as she would lie in sending such a letter? If he did throw her over he
would be a traitor, and her heart would be full of reproaches. Whatever might be his future
lot in life, he owed it to her to share it with her, and if he evaded his debt he would be
a traitor and a miscreant. She would never tell him so. She would be far too proud to condescend
to spoken or written reproaches. But she would know that it would be so, and why should she
lie to him by saying that it would not be so? Thinking of all this, when the morning came,
she left the letter lying within her desk.

Lord Fawn was to call upon Lady Eustace on the Saturday, and on Friday afternoon Mr. Andrew
Gowran was in Mrs. Hittaway's back parlour in Warwick Square. After many efforts, and with
much persuasion, the brother had agreed to see his sister's great witness. Lord Fawn had felt
that he would lower himself by any intercourse with such a one as Andy Gowran in regard to
the conduct of the woman whom he had proposed to make his wife, and had endeavoured to avoid
the meeting. He had been angry, piteous, haughty, and sullen by turns; but Mrs. Hittaway had
overcome him by dogged perseverance; and poor Lord Fawn had at last consented. He was to come
to Warwick Square as soon as the House was up on Friday evening, and dine there. Before dinner
he was to be introduced to Mr. Gowran. Andy arrived at the house at half-past five, and after
some conversation with Mrs. Hittaway, was left there all alone to await the coming of Lord
Fawn. He was in appearance and manners very different from the Andy Gowran familiarly known
among the braes and crofts of Portray. He had a heavy stiff hat, which he carried in his hand.
He wore a black swallow-tail coat and black trousers, and a heavy red waistcoat buttoned up
nearly to his throat, round which was tightly tied a dingy black silk handkerchief. At Portray
no man was more voluble, no man more self-confident, no man more equal to his daily occupations
than Andy Gowran; but the unaccustomed clothes, and the journey to London, and the town houses
overcame him, and for a while almost silenced him. Mrs. Hittaway found him silent, cautious,
and timid. Not knowing what to do with him, fearing to ask him to go and eat in the kitchen,
and not liking to have meat and unlimited drink brought for him into the parlour, she directed
the servant to supply him with a glass of sherry and a couple of biscuits. He had come an hour
before the time named, and there, with nothing to cheer him beyond these slight creature-comforts,
he was left to wait all alone till Lord Fawn should be ready to see him.

Andy had seen lords before. Lords are not rarer in Ayrshire than in other Scotch counties;
and then, had not Lord George de Bruce Carruthers been staying at Portray half the winter?
But Lord George was not to Andy a real lord,--and then a lord down in his own county was so
much less to him than a lord up in London. And this lord was a lord of Parliament, and a government
lord, and might probably have the power of hanging such a one as Andy Gowran were he to commit
perjury, or say anything which the lord might choose to call perjury. What it was that Lord
Fawn wished him to say, he could not make himself sure. That the lord's sister wished him to
prove Lady Eustace to be all that was bad, he knew very well. But he thought that he was able
to perceive that the brother and sister were not at one, and more than once during his journey
up to London he had almost made up his mind that he would turn tail and go back to Portray.
No doubt there was enmity between him and his mistress; but then his mistress did not attempt
to hurt him even though he had insulted her grossly; and were she to tell him to leave her
service, it would be from Mr. John Eustace, and not from Mrs. Hittaway, that he must look for
the continuation of his employment. Nevertheless he had taken Mrs. Hittaway's money and there
he was.

At half-past seven Lord Fawn was brought into the room by his sister, and Andy Gowran, rising
from his chair, three times ducked his head. "Mr. Gowran," said Mrs. Hittaway, "my brother
is desirous that you should tell him exactly what you have seen of Lady Eustace's conduct down
at Portray. You may speak quite freely, and I know you will speak truly." Andy again ducked
his head. "Frederic," continued the lady, "I am sure that you may implicitly believe all that
Mr. Gowran will say to you." Then Mrs. Hittaway left the room,--as her brother had expressly
stipulated that she should do.

Lord Fawn was quite at a loss how to begin, and Andy was by no means prepared to help him.
"If I am rightly informed," said the lord, "you have been for many years employed on the Portray
property?"

"A' my life,--so please your lairdship."

"Just so;--just so. And, of course, interested in the welfare of the Eustace family?"

"Nae doobt, my laird,--nae doobt; vera interasted indeed."

"And being an honest man, have felt sorrow that the Portray property should--should--should--;
that anything bad should happen to it." Andy nodded his head, and Lord Fawn perceived that
he was nowhere near the beginning of his matter. "Lady Eustace is at present your mistress?"

"Just in a fawshion, my laird,--as a mon may say. That is she is,--and she is nae. There's
a mony things at Portray as ha' to be lookit after."

"She pays you your wages?" said Lord Fawn shortly.

"Eh;--wages! Yes, my laird; she does a' that."

"Then she's your mistress." Andy again nodded his head, and Lord Fawn again struggled to find
some way in which he might approach his subject. "Her cousin, Mr. Greystock, has been staying
at Portray lately?"

"More coothie than coosinly," said Andy, winking his eye.

It was dreadful to Lord Fawn that the man should wink his eye at him. He did not quite understand
what Andy had last said, but he did understand that some accusation as to indecent familiarity
with her cousin was intended to be brought by this Scotch steward against the woman to whom
he had engaged himself. Every feeling of his nature revolted against the task before him, and
he found that on trial it became absolutely impracticable. He could not bring himself to inquire
minutely as to poor Lizzie's flirting down among the rocks. He was weak, and foolish, and in
many respects ignorant,--but he was a gentleman. As he got nearer to the point which it had
been intended that he should reach, the more he hated Andy Gowran,--and the more he hated himself
for having submitted to such contact. He paused a moment, and then he declared that the conversation
was at an end. "I think that will do, Mr. Gowran," he said. "I don't know that you can tell
me anything I want to hear. I think you had better go back to Scotland." So saying, he left
Andy alone and stalked up to the drawing-room. When he entered it, both Mr. Hittaway and his
sister were there. "Clara," he said very sternly, "you had better send some one to dismiss
that man. I shall not speak to him again."

Lord Fawn did not speak to Andy Gowran again, but Mrs. Hittaway did. After a faint and futile
endeavour made by her to ascertain what had taken place in the parlour down-stairs, she descended
and found Andy seated in his chair, still holding his hat in his hand, as stiff as a wax figure.
He had been afraid of the lord, but as soon as the lord had left him he was very angry with
the lord. He had been brought up all that way to tell his story to the lord, and the lord had
gone away without hearing a word of it,--had gone away and had absolutely insulted him, had
asked him who paid him his wages, and had then told him that Lady Eustace was his mistress.
Andy Gowran felt strongly that this was not that kind of confidential usage which he had had
a right to expect. And after his experience of the last hour and a half, he did not at all
relish his renewed solitude in that room. "A drap of puir thin liquor,--poored out, too, in
a weeny glass nae deeper than an egg-shell,--and twa cookies; that's what she ca'ed--rafrashment!"
It was thus that Andy afterwards spoke to his wife of the hospitalities offered to him in Warwick
Square, regarding which his anger was especially hot, in that he had been treated like a child
or a common labourer, instead of having the decanter left with him to be used at his own discretion.
When, therefore, Mrs. Hittaway returned to him, the awe with which new circumstances and the
lord had filled him was fast vanishing, and giving place to that stubborn indignation against
people in general which was his normal, condition. "I suppose I'm jist to gang bock again to
Portray, Mrs. Heetaway, and that'll be a' you'll want o' me?" This he said the moment the lady
entered the room.

But Mrs. Hittaway did not want to lose his services quite so soon. She expressed regret that
her brother should have found himself unable to discuss a subject that was naturally so very
distasteful to him, and begged Mr. Gowran to come to her again the next morning. "What I saw
wi' my ain twa e'es, Mrs. Heetaway, I saw,--and nane the less because his lairdship may nae
find it jist tastefu', as your leddyship was saying. There were them twa, a' colloguing, and
a-seetting ilk in ither's laps a' o'er, and a-keessing,--yes, my leddy, a-keessing as females,
not to say males, ought nae to keess, unless they be mon and wife,--and then not amang the
rocks, my leddy; and if his lairdship does nae care to hear tell o' it, and finds it nae tastefu',
as your leddyship was saying, he should nae ha' sent for Andy Gowran a' the way from Portray,
jist to tell him what he wanna hear, now I'm come to tell't to him!"

All this was said with so much unction that even Mrs. Hittaway herself found it to be not "tasteful."
She shrunk and shivered under Mr. Gowran's eloquence, and almost repented of her zeal. But
women, perhaps, feel less repugnance than do men at using ignoble assistance in the achievement
of good purposes. Though Mrs. Hittaway shrunk and shivered under the strong action with which
Mr. Gowran garnished his strong words, still she was sure of the excellence of her purpose;
and, believing that useful aid might still be obtained from Andy Gowran, and, perhaps, prudently
anxious to get value in return for the cost of the journey up from Ayrshire, she made the man
promise to return to her on the following morning.

CHAPTER LX

"Let It Be As Though It Had Never Been"

Between her son, and her married daughter, and Lucy Morris, poor Lady Fawn's life had become
a burthen to her. Everything was astray, and there was no happiness or tranquillity at Fawn
Court. Of all simply human creeds the strongest existing creed for the present in the minds
of the Fawn ladies was that which had reference to the general iniquity of Lizzie Eustace.
She had been the cause of all these sorrows, and she was hated so much the more because she
had not been proved to be iniquitous before all the world. There had been a time when it seemed
to be admitted that she was so wicked in keeping the diamonds in opposition to the continued
demands made for them by Mr. Camperdown, that all people would be justified in dropping her,
and Lord Fawn among the number. But since the two robberies, public opinion had veered round
three or four points in Lizzie's favour, and people were beginning to say that she had been
ill-used. Then had come Mrs. Hittaway's evidence as to Lizzie's wicked doings down in Scotland,--the
wicked doings which Andy Gowran had described with a vehemence so terribly moral; and that
which had been at first, as it were, added to the diamonds, as a supplementary weight thrown
into the scale, so that Lizzie's iniquities might bring her absolutely to the ground, had gradually
assumed the position of being the first charge against her. Lady Fawn had felt no aversion
to discussing the diamonds. When Lizzie was called a "thief," and a "robber," and a "swindler"
by one or another of the ladies of the family,--who, in using those strong terms, whispered
the words as ladies are wont to do when they desire to lessen the impropriety of the strength
of their language by the gentleness of the tone in which the words are spoken,--when Lizzie
was thus described in Lady Fawn's hearing in her own house, she had felt no repugnance to it.
It was well that the fact should be known, so that everybody might be aware that her son was
doing right in refusing to marry so wicked a lady. But when the other thing was added to it;
when the story was told of what Mr. Gowran had seen among the rocks, and when gradually that
became the special crime which was to justify her son in dropping the lady's acquaintance,
then Lady Fawn became very unhappy, and found the subject to be, as Mrs. Hittaway had described
it, very distasteful.

And this trouble hit Lucy Morris as hard as it did Lord Fawn. If Lizzie Eustace was unfit to
marry Lord Fawn because of these things, then was Frank Greystock not only unfit to marry Lucy,
but most unlikely to do so, whether fit or unfit. For a week or two Lady Fawn had allowed herself
to share Lucy's joy, and to believe that Mr. Greystock would prove himself true to the girl
whose heart he had made all his own;--but she had soon learned to distrust the young member
of Parliament who was always behaving insolently to her son, who spent his holidays down with
Lizzie Eustace, who never visited and rarely wrote to the girl he had promised to marry, and
as to whom all the world agreed in saying that he was far too much in debt to marry any woman
who had not means to help him. It was all sorrow and vexation together; and yet when her married
daughter would press the subject upon her, and demand her co-operation, she had no power of
escaping. "Mamma," Mrs. Hittaway had said, "Lady Glencora Palliser has been with her, and everybody
is taking her up, and if her conduct down in Scotland isn't proved, Frederic will be made to
marry her." "But what can I do, my dear?" Lady Fawn had asked, almost in tears. "Insist that
Frederic shall know the whole truth," replied Mrs. Hittaway with energy. "Of course, it is
very disagreeable. Nobody can feel it more than I do. It is horrible to have to talk about
such things,--and to think of them." "Indeed it is, Clara,--very horrible." "But anything,
mamma, is better than that Frederic should be allowed to marry such a woman as that. It must
be proved to him--how unfit she is to be his wife." With the view of carrying out this intention,
Mrs. Hittaway had, as we have seen, received Andy Gowran at her own house; and with the same
view she took Andy Gowran the following morning down to Richmond.

Mrs. Hittaway, and her mother, and Andy were closeted together for half an hour, and Lady Fawn
suffered grievously. Lord Fawn had found that he couldn't hear the story, and he had not heard
it. He had been strong enough to escape, and had, upon the whole, got the best of it in the
slight skirmish which had taken place between him and the Scotchman; but poor old Lady Fawn
could not escape. Andy was allowed to be eloquent, and the whole story was told to her, though
she would almost sooner have been flogged at a cart's tail than have heard it. Then "rafrashments"
were administered to Andy of a nature which made him prefer Fawn Court to Warwick Square, and
he was told that he might go back to Portray as soon as he pleased.

When he was gone, Mrs. Hittaway opened her mind to her mother altogether. "The truth is, mamma,
that Frederic will marry her."

"But why? I thought that he had declared that he would give it up. I thought that he had said
so to herself."

"What of that, if he retracts what he said? He is so weak. Lady Glencora Palliser has made
him promise to go and see her; and he is to go to-day. He is there now, probably,--at this
very moment. If he had been firm, the thing was done. After all that has taken place, nobody
would ever have supposed that his engagement need go for anything. But what can he say to her
now that he is with her, except just do the mischief all over again? I call it quite wicked
in that woman's interfering. I do, indeed! She's a nasty, insolent, impertinent creature;--that's
what she is! After all the trouble I've taken, she comes and undoes it all with one word."

"What can we do, Clara?"

"Well;--I do believe that if Frederic could be made to act as he ought to do, just for a while,
she would marry her cousin, Mr. Greystock, and then there would be an end of it altogether.
I really think that she likes him best, and from all that I can hear, she would take him now,
if Frederic would only keep out of the way. As for him, of course he is doing his very best
to get her. He has not one shilling to rub against another, and is over head and ears in debt."

"Poor Lucy!" ejaculated Lady Fawn.

"Well;--yes; but really that is a matter of course. I always thought, mamma, that you and Amelia
were a little wrong to coax her up in that belief."

"But, my dear, the man proposed for her in the plainest possible manner. I saw his letter."

"No doubt;--men do propose. We all know that. I'm sure I don't know what they get by it, but
I suppose it amuses them. There used to be a sort of feeling that if a man behaved badly something
would be done to him; but that's all over now. A man may propose to whom he likes, and if he
chooses to say afterwards that it doesn't mean anything, there's nothing in the world to bring
him to book."

"That's very hard," said the elder lady, of whom everybody said that she did not understand
the world as well as her daughter.

"The girls,--they all know that it is so, and I suppose it comes to the same thing in the long
run. The men have to marry, and what one girl loses another girl gets."

"It will kill Lucy."

"Girls ain't killed so easy, mamma;--not now-a-days. Saying that it will kill her won't change
the man's nature. It wasn't to be expected that such a man as Frank Greystock, in debt, and
in Parliament, and going to all the best houses, should marry your governess. What was he to
get by it? That's what I want to know."

"I suppose he loved her."

"Laws, mamma, how antediluvian you are! No doubt he did like her,--after his fashion; though
what he saw in her, I never could tell. I think Miss Morris would make a very nice wife for
a country clergyman who didn't care how poor things were. But she has no style;--and as far
as I can see, she has no beauty. Why should such a man as Frank Greystock tie himself by the
leg for ever to such a girl as that? But, mamma, he doesn't mean to marry Lucy Morris. Would
he have been going on in that way with his cousin down in Scotland had he meant it? He means
nothing of the kind. He means to marry Lady Eustace's income if he can get it;--and she would
marry him before the summer if only we could keep Frederic away from her."

Mrs. Hittaway demanded from her mother that in season and out of season she should be urgent
with Lord Fawn, impressing upon him the necessity of waiting, in order that he might see how
false Lady Eustace was to him; and also that she should teach Lucy Morris how vain were all
her hopes. If Lucy Morris would withdraw her claims altogether the thing might probably be
more quickly and more surely managed. If Lucy could be induced to tell Frank that she withdrew
her claim, and that she saw how impossible it was that they should ever be man and wife, then,--so
argued Mrs. Hittaway,--Frank would at once throw himself at his cousin's feet, and all the
difficulty would be over. The abominable, unjustifiable, and insolent interference of Lady
Glencora just at the present moment would be the means of undoing all the good that had been
done, unless it could be neutralised by some such activity as this. The necklace had absolutely
faded away into nothing. The sly creature was almost becoming a heroine on the strength of
the necklace. The very mystery with which the robberies were pervaded was acting in her favour.
Lord Fawn would absolutely be made to marry her,--forced into it by Lady Glencora and that
set,--unless the love affair between her and her cousin, of which Andy Gowran was able to give
such sufficient testimony, could in some way be made available to prevent it.

The theory of life and system on which social matters should be managed, as displayed by her
married daughter, was very painful to poor old Lady Fawn. When she was told that under the
new order of things promises from gentlemen were not to be looked upon as binding, that love
was to go for nothing, that girls were to be made contented by being told that when one lover
was lost another could be found, she was very unhappy. She could not disbelieve it all, and
throw herself back upon her faith in virtue, constancy, and honesty. She rather thought that
things had changed for the worse since she was young, and that promises were not now as binding
as they used to be. She herself had married into a Liberal family, had a Liberal son, and would
have called herself a Liberal; but she could not fail to hear from others, her neighbours,
that the English manners, and English principles, and English society were all going to destruction
in consequence of the so-called liberality of the age. Gentlemen, she thought, certainly did
do things which gentlemen would not have done forty years ago; and as for ladies,--they, doubtless,
were changed altogether. Most assuredly she could not have brought an Andy Gowran to her mother
to tell such tales in their joint presence as this man had told!

Mrs. Hittaway had ridiculed her for saying that poor Lucy would die when forced to give up
her lover. Mrs. Hittaway had spoken of the necessity of breaking up that engagement without
a word of anger against Frank Greystock. According to Mrs. Hittaway's views Frank Greystock
had amused himself in the most natural way in the world when he asked Lucy to be his wife.
A governess like Lucy had been quite foolish to expect that such a man as Greystock was in
earnest. Of course she must give up her lover; and if there must be blame, she must blame herself
for her folly! Nevertheless, Lady Fawn was so soft-hearted that she believed that the sorrow
would crush Lucy, even if it did not kill her.

But not the less was it her duty to tell Lucy what she thought to be the truth. The story of
what had occurred among the rocks at Portray was very disagreeable, but she believed it to
be true. The man had been making love to his cousin after his engagement to Lucy. And then,
was it not quite manifest that he was neglecting poor Lucy in every way? He had not seen her
for nearly six months. Had he intended to marry her, would he not have found a home for her
at the deanery? Did he in any respect treat her as he would treat the girl whom he intended
to marry? Putting all these things together, Lady Fawn thought that she saw that Lucy's case
was hopeless;--and, so thinking, wrote to her the following letter:--

   Fawn Court, 3rd March, 18--.

   DEAREST LUCY,

   I have so much to say to you that I did think of getting
   Lady Linlithgow to let you come to us here for a day, but
   I believe it will perhaps be better that I should write.
   I think you leave Lady Linlithgow after the first week in
   April, and it is quite necessary that you should come to
   some fixed arrangement as to the future. If that were all,
   there need not be any trouble, as you will come here, of
   course. Indeed, this is your natural home, as we all feel;
   and I must say that we have missed you most terribly since
   you went,--not only for Cecilia and Nina, but for all of
   us. And I don't know that I should write at all if it
   wasn't for something else, that must be said sooner or
   later;--because, as to your coming here in April, that is
   so much a matter of course. The only mistake was, that you
   should ever have gone away. So we shall expect you here on
   whatever day you may arrange with Lady Linlithgow as to
   leaving her.

The poor, dear lady went on repeating her affectionate invitation, because of the difficulty
she encountered in finding words with which to give the cruel counsel which she thought that
it was her duty to offer.

