Now here, on the other hand, is a dress which, being founded on principles, can serve us as
an excellent guide and model; it has been drawn for me, most kindly, by Mr. Godwin from the
Duke of Newcastle's delightful book on horsemanship, a book which is one of our best authorities
on our best era of costume.  I do not of course propose it necessarily for absolute imitation;
that is not the way in which one should regard it; it is not, I mean, a revival of a dead costume,
but a realization of living laws.  I give it as an example of a particular application of principles
which are universally right.  This rationally dressed young man can turn his hat brim down
if it rains, and his loose trousers and boots down if he is tired--that is, he can adapt his
costume to circumstances; then he enjoys perfect freedom, the arms and legs are not made awkward
or uncomfortable by the excessive tightness of narrow sleeves and knee-breeches, and the hips
are left quite untrammelled, always an important point; and as regards comfort, his jacket
is not too loose for warmth, nor too close for respiration; his neck is well protected without
being strangled, and even his ostrich feathers, if any Philistine should object to them, are
not merely dandyism, but fan him very pleasantly, I am sure, in summer, and when the weather
is bad they are no doubt left at home, and his cloak taken out.  THE VALUE OF THE DRESS IS
SIMPLY THAT EVERY SEPARATE ARTICLE OF IT EXPRESSES A LAW.  My young man is consequently apparelled
with ideas, while Mr. Huyshe's young man is stiffened with facts; the latter teaches one nothing;
from the former one learns everything.  I need hardly say that this dress is good, not because
it is seventeenth century, but because it is constructed on the true principles of costume,
just as a square lintel or pointed arch is good, not because one may be Greek and the other
Gothic, but because each of them is the best method of spanning a certain-sized opening, or
resisting a certain weight. The fact, however, that this dress was generally worn in England
two centuries and a half ago shows at least this, that the right laws of dress have been understood
and realized in our country, and so in our country may be realized and understood again.  As
regards the absolute beauty of this dress and its meaning, I should like to say a few words
more.  Mr. Wentworth Huyshe solemnly announces that "he and those who think with him" cannot
permit this question of beauty to be imported into the question of dress; that he and those
who think with him take "practical views on the subject," and so on.  Well, I will not enter
here into a discussion as to how far any one who does not take beauty and the value of beauty
into account can claim to be practical at all.  The word practical is nearly always the last
refuge of the uncivilized.  Of all misused words it is the most evilly treated.  But what I
want to point out is that beauty is essentially organic; that is, it comes, not from without,
but from within, not from any added prettiness, but from the perfection of its own being; and
that consequently, as the body is beautiful, so all apparel that rightly clothes it must be
beautiful also in its construction and in its lines.

I have no more desire to define ugliness than I have daring to define beauty; but still I would
like to remind those who mock at beauty as being an unpractical thing of this fact, that an
ugly thing is merely a thing that is badly made, or a thing that does not serve it purpose;
that ugliness is want of fitness; that ugliness is failure; that ugliness is uselessness, such
as ornament in the wrong place, while beauty, as some one finely said, is the purgation of
all superfluities.  There is a divine economy about beauty; it gives us just what is needful
and no more, whereas ugliness is always extravagant; ugliness is a spendthrift and wastes its
material; in fine, ugliness--and I would commend this remark to Mr. Wentworth Huyshe--ugliness,
as much in costume as in anything else, is always the sign that somebody has been unpractical.
So the costume of the future in England, if it is founded on the true laws of freedom, comfort,
and adaptability to circumstances, cannot fail to be most beautiful also, because beauty is
the sign always of the rightness of principles, the mystical seal that is set upon what is
perfect, and upon what is perfect only.

As for your other correspondent, the first principle of dress that all garments should be hung
from the shoulders and not from the waist seems to me to be generally approved of, although
an "Old Sailor" declares that no sailors or athletes ever suspend their clothes from the shoulders,
but always from the hips.  My own recollection of the river and running ground at Oxford--those
two homes of Hellenism in our little Gothic town--is that the best runners and rowers (and
my own college turned out many) wore always a tight jersey, with short drawers attached to
it, the whole costume being woven in one piece.  As for sailors, it is true, I admit, and the
bad custom seems to involve that constant "hitching up" of the lower garments which, however
popular in transpontine dramas, cannot, I think, but be considered an extremely awkward habit;
and as all awkwardness comes from discomfort of some kind, I trust that this point in our sailor's
dress will be looked to in the coming reform of our navy, for, in spite of all protests, I
hope we are about to reform everything, from torpedoes to top-hats, and from crinolettes to
cruises.

