Los Angeles is also a place to go from to the beach at Santa Monica, and Redondo, or that wondrous
island, "Santa Catalina," which has been described by Mr. C. F. Holder in the Californian so
enthusiastically that I should think the "Isle of Summer" could not receive all who would unite
to share his raptures--with a climate nearer to absolute perfection than any land, so near
all the conveniences of civilization, and everything else that can be desired. His first jew-fish
or black sea-bass weighed 342½ pounds, and a dozen other varieties are gamy and plentiful;
fine sport with the rifle in the upland region, wealth of verdure along the trail; below, good
hotel, beaches, bathing, evening concerts--"the true land of sweet idleness, where one can
drift around with all nature to entertain." To be strictly truthful, I must add that the hotel
was built just over an old Indian burying-ground, therefore cases of typhoid fever are not unknown.

CHAPTER VI.

PASADENA.

    "If there be an Elysium upon earth,
        It is this, it is this."

For my own taste, I prefer Pasadena, the "Crown of the Valley"--nine miles from Los Angeles,
but eight hundred feet higher and with much drier air, at the foot of the Sierra Madre range,
in the beauteous San Gabriel Valley. Yes, Pasadena seems to me as near Eden as can be found
by mortal man.

Columbus in a letter to Ferdinand and Isabella said, "I believe that if I should pass under
the equator in arriving at this higher region of which I speak, I should find there a milder
temperature and a diversity in the stars and in the waters.... I am convinced that there is
the Terrestrial Paradise."

Poor persecuted Columbus! I wish he could have once seen Pasadena, the very spot he dreamed
of. Can I now write calmly, critically, judicially of what I see, enjoy, admire and wonder
over? If I succeed it will be what no one else has done. I was here last year and gave my impressions
then, which are only strengthened by a second visit, so that I will quote my own words, which
read like the veriest gush, but are absolutely true, came straight from my heart, and, after
all, didn't half tell the story.

I am fascinated and enthralled by your sun-kissed, rose-embowered, semi-tropical summer-land
of Hellenic sky and hills of Hymettus, with its paradoxical antitheses: of flowers and flannels;
strawberries and sealskin sacks; open fires with open windows; snow-capped mountains and orange
blossoms; winter looking down upon summer--a topsy-turvy land, where you dig for your wood
and climb for your coal; where water-pipes are laid above ground, with no fear of Jack Frost,
and your principal rivers flow bottom side up and invisible most of the time; where the boys
climb up hill on burros and slide down hills on wheels; where the trees are green all the year,
and you go outdoors in December to get warm; where squirrels live in the ground with owls for
chums, while rats build in the trees, and where water runs up hill; where anything unpleasant,
from a seismic disturbance to mosquitoes in March, is "exceptional" and surprising. A land
where there are no seasons, but where sunshine and shade are so distinctly marked that one
can be easily half baked on one side and dangerously chilled on the other.

Then the Climate--spell it with a capital, and then try to think of an adjective worthy to
precede it. Glorious! Delicious! Incomparable! Paradisaical!!! To a tenderfoot straight from
New Hampshire, where we have nine months of winter and three of pretty cold weather, where
we have absolutely but three months that are free from frost, this seems like enchanted ground.

A climate warm, with a constant refreshing coolness in its heart; cool, with a latent vivifying
warmth forever peeping out of its coat-tail pocket.

June does not define it, nor September. It has no synonym, for there is nothing like it. I
am glad that I have lived to see hedges of heliotrope, of geraniums and calla-lilies. I remember,
in contrast, solitary calla plants that I have nursed with care all winter in hopes of one
blossom for Easter. And I do not feel sure that I can ever tear myself away. I am reminded
of good old Dr. Watts, who was invited by Lady Abney to pass a fortnight at her home, and remained
for forty years.

Here we all unconsciously eat the lotus in some occult fashion, are straightway bewitched and
held willing captives. I have looked up the lotus, about which so much is said or sung and
so little definitely known, and find it is a prickly shrub of Africa, bearing a fruit of a
sweet taste, and the early Greeks knew all about its power. Homer in the Odyssey says that
whoever ate of the fruit wished never to depart nor again to see his native land. Many of Ulysses'
sailors ate this fruit, and lost all desire for home.

The last letter received by me from New Hampshire, April 3d, begins in this way: "It is like
the middle of winter here, good sleighing and still very cold." And then comes a sad series
of announcements of sickness and deaths caused by the protracted rigors of the season. And
here, at the same date, all the glories of the spring, which far exceeds our summer--Spanish
breezes, Italian sky and sunsets, Alpine mountains, tropical luxuriance of vegetation, a nearly
uniform climate, a big outdoor conservatory. There is no other place on earth that combines
so much in the same limits. You can snowball your companions on Christmas morning on the mountain-top,
pelt your lady friends with rose leaves in the foot-hills three hours later, and in another
sixty minutes dip in the surf no cooler than Newport in July; and the theatre in the evening.
As a bright workman said, you can freeze through and thaw out in one day.

An electric railroad will soon connect Los Angeles with Pasadena and Mount Wilson, and a fine
hotel is to be placed on the top of Echo Mountain, 3500 feet high, and this will then certainly
be the ideal health and pleasure resort of the world.

Pasadena's homes, protected on three sides by mountain ranges, are surrounded by groves and
gardens, trees and hedges from every clime. Everything will grow and flourish here. Capitalists
from the East seem engaged in a generous rivalry to create the ideal paradise. Passion vines
completely cover the arbors, roses clamber to the tops of houses and blossom by tens of thousands.
I notice displays fit for a floral show in the windows of butcher shops and shoe stores. The
churches are adorned with a mantle of vines and flowers.

Are there no "outs," no defects in this Pasadena? One must not forget the rainy days, the occasional
"hot spells" of August and September, a wind now and then that blows off steeples and tears
down fragile structures, bringing along a good deal more sand than is wanted. And every year
an earthquake may be expected. I have experienced two, and they are not agreeable.

Aside from these drawbacks and dust in summer, all else is perfection, except that the weather
is so uniformly glorious that there is seldom a day when one is willing to stay at home. I
feel just now like a "deestrick" schoolboy who has been "kept in" on a summer afternoon.

The wild-flowers are more fascinating to me than all those so profusely cultivated. I weary
of five thousand calla-lilies in one church at Easter, and lose a little interest in roses
when they bloom perennially and in such profusion that I have had enough given me in one morning
to fill a wash-tub or clothes-basket!

The wealth of color on the hills and mesas in springtime can never be described or painted.
The State flower, the yellow poppy with the name that would floor any spelling-match hero--the
eschscholtzia--is most conspicuous, and can be seen far away at sea; but there are dozens of
others, that it is better to admire and leave unplucked, as they wilt so soon. "The ground
is literally dolly-vardened with buttercups, violets, dodecatheons, gilias, nemophilas, and
the like. And yet these are the mere skirmish line of the mighty invading hosts, whose uniforms
surpass the kingly robes of Solomon, and whose banners of crimson and yellow and purple will
soon wave on every hilltop and in every valley.

"In April and May the lover of nature may pass into the seventh heaven of botanical delight.
Then in favored sections the display reaches a gorgeousness and a profusion that surpass both
description and imagination."

No one can paint the grain fields as they look when the sun puts into every blade a tiny golden
ray and it is no longer every-day common grain, but an enchanted carpet of living, radiant,
golden green. We tourists call it grass, but there is no grass to be proud of in California.

No one can paint the sky; no one would accept it as true to nature if once caught on the canvas.

I will not attempt to describe the mountains with their many charms. I listened to a lecture
lately where a man was struggling to do this, and it was positively painful. The flowery verbiage,
the accumulated adjectives, the poetical quotations were overpowering. I seemed actually sinking
into luscious mellifluousness. I shook it off my fingers, as if it were maple syrup. Then,
as he climbed higher and higher, on and up, never getting away from the richest verdure and
the sweetest flowers, scenes for an artist to paint with rapture, and a poet to sing in ecstasy,
I found myself pushing up my forehead to improvise a mansard roof for my brain to swell in
sympathy. And when he reached the summit and the panorama burst upon his enraptured vision,
it was too much for my strained emotions, and I quietly slipped out.

And the strangest part is that every word is true, and, say what one will, one never gets near
the reality. In this respect, you see, it differs from a floral catalogue sent out in early
spring, or a hotel pamphlet with illustrations.

The cable road is 3000 feet long, with a direct ascent of 1400 feet, and the Echo Mountain
House will be 1500 feet higher than the Catskill hotels overlooking the Hudson, and it is estimated
that not less than 60,000 fares will be collected upon this mountain railroad the first year.

All this was designed and executed by Professor Lowe, of aeronaut fame, a scientist and banker,
the inventor of water-gas and artificial ice, and a man of great business ability.

One of the best proofs of the health-giving power of this air is the fact that the physicians
practising here, with one exception, came seriously ill and have not only recovered, but are
strong enough to keep very busy helping others.

Pasadena has no ragged shabby outskirts; the poorer classes seem to be able to own or rent
pretty little homes, some like large birdcages, all well kept and attractive. Some gentlemen
from Indianapolis came here in 1873 and started the town, planting their orange orchards under
the shadows of the mountains.

Each portion has its own attractions. Orange Grove Avenue, a street over a mile long, is described
by its name. Great trees stand in the centre of the street, a fine road on either side, and
the homes are embowered in flowers and palms, while hedges are made of the pomegranate, the
honeysuckle, and even the heliotrope. Marengo Avenue is lined on either side by splendid specimens
of the pepper, the prettiest and most graceful of all trees here. Colorado Street, with its
homes and shops and churches, leads out to the foot-hills and "Altadena," which is often spoken
of as recalling the handsome residences along the Riviera.

The street cars which go from the station toward the mountains bear on each the words, "This
Car for the Poppy Fields," and they are a sight worth seeing. Mrs. Kellog describes this flower
more perfectly than any artist could paint it: "Think of finest gold, of clearest lemon, of
deepest orange on silkiest texture, just bedewed with a frost-like sheen, a silvery film, and
you have a faint impression of what an eschscholtzia is. Multiply this impression by acres
of waving color." And in February this may sometimes be seen. It has been well chosen for the
State flower.

If consumptives must go away from the comforts of home, this is a haven of rest for them. In
a late Medical Record I see that a physician deprecates the custom of sending hopeless cases
to the high altitudes of Colorado, where the poor victim gasps out a few weeks or months of
existence. "If such cases as the above must be sent from home, as we sometimes think here,
to rid their home physicians of the annoyance of their presence, they should be sent to Florida
or Southern California, where at least they may be chloroformed off into eternity by a soothing
climate, and not suffer an actual shortening of their days from a climate acting on a radically
different principle and entirely unsuited to them."

This is a bit of the shady side after all the sunlight. It is a place for the invalid to rejoice
in, and those in robust health can find enough to do to employ all their energies.

The "Tournament of Roses" last winter was a grand success, praised by all. The "Pageant of
Roses" was celebrated here lately, and I cannot give you a better idea of it than by copying
the synopsis.

Imagine the opera-house trimmed inside with wreaths and festoons and bouquets of roses--a picture
in itself; audience in full evening dress, each lady carrying roses, each man with a rose for
a boutonnière.

The dancing in costume was exquisitely graceful, and the evolutions and figures admirably exact--no
mistake, nothing amateurish about the whole performance.

     PART FIRST.

     Los Flores, a garden in the Crown of the Valley. Goddess Flora and
     her pages asleep. Harlequin, the magic spirit, enters, produces by
     incantation the rain and summons the maiden Spring, who rouses the
     Goddess and her pages. The Goddess commands the Harlequin to usher
     in the Pageant of Roses. Enter the Red or Colonial Roses; march and
     form for the reception and dance of the Ladies of the Minuet.
     Retire. Harlequin, at the request of the Goddess, summons the Gold
     of Ophirs, bearing urn as offering to the Goddess, when is
     performed the dance of the Orient, including solo. Curtain falls on
     tableau.

     PART SECOND.

     Same garden. Goddess on her throne, surrounded by her pages. She
     summons the Harlequin, who in turn brings the Roses of Castile.
     They bring offering of flowers to the Goddess, and perform a dance.

     Goddess again summons Harlequin, who, by great effort, brings the
     Roses of the Snow, or the Little Girls from Boston, led by Frost
     Maiden. They perform a dance and retire. Both Harlequins enter,
     perform a dance, and command the blooming of the Pink Rose Buds.
     Pink Rose Buds enter without offering for the Goddess, and prevail
     upon the Harlequins to help them out of their difficulties. The
     Harlequins send Poppies for the great La France Rose Buds as an
     offering, and perform "The Transformation of the Rose." Rose Buds
     dance and are joined by the little Roses in the Snow. All dance and
     retire. Enter White Harlequin, who calls for the White Rose dance
     by the Greek maidens. They perform ceremonies and deck the altar of
     their Goddess, dance and retire. Curtain.

     PART THIRD.

     Grand march. Tableau, with falling Rose petals, in the magic cañon.

And not a word yet of The Raymond, that popular house set upon a hill that commands a view
hard to equal. The house is always filled to overflowing, and this year General Wentworth tells
me the business has been better than ever. This famous resort is in East Pasadena, and has
its own station. It is always closed in April, just at the time when there is the most to see
and enjoy, and the flowers are left to bloom unseen.

The other fine hotel here, named for its owner, Colonel Green of "August Flower" fame, is on
ground eight feet higher, although by the conformation of the land it does not look so.

Many prefer to be in the town and nearer the mountains, and this house proving insufficient
for its patrons, an addition four times the size of the present building is being added in
semi-Moorish architecture, at a cost of $300,000.

That item shows what an experienced man of business thinks about the future of Pasadena.

The town is full of pleasant boarding-houses, as Mrs. Dexter's, Mrs. Bangs's, and Mrs. Roberts's,
and many enjoy having rooms at one house and taking meals at another. You can spend as much
or as little as you choose. At Mrs. Snyder's I found simple but delicious old-fashioned home-cooking
at most reasonable rates.

And still more? Yes, the Public Library must be mentioned, the valuable collections I was permitted
to see, the old mission of San Gabriel three miles away, and then I shall give the next chapter
to my brother, who spent a week on Mt. Wilson, and came down wonderfully benefited even by
that short stay. One invalid he met there had gained four pounds in as many days. His ambition
now is to open a law office up among the clouds and transact business by telephone, saying
the fact that his clients could not see him would be no disadvantage.

While he is discoursing I will be studying the history of the Indian baskets and report later.

CHAPTER VII.

CAMPING ON MOUNT WILSON.

    "On every height there lies repose."

At Pasadena the mountain wall which guards the California of the South stands very near and
looks down with pride upon the blooming garden below. The mountains which belong especially
to Pasadena are but three miles away. Their average height exceeds slightly that of the Mt.
Washington range in New Hampshire. The Sierra Madre system, of which they form a part, contains
some peaks considerably higher.

Farther to the East, "Old Baldy"--Mt. San Antonio--raises its snowy summit to a height just
close enough to ten thousand feet to test the veracity of its admirers. It is about ten miles
from Pasadena by the eyes, but would be twenty by the feet, if they could walk an air line.

To the south and east of "Old Baldy" is Mt. San Jacinto, 12,000 feet above the Pacific, upon
which it looks, in the far distance.

The majestic mountain wall, almost bending over the homes of Pasadena, with their vines and
fig trees, their roses and lilies, their orchards of orange and lemon, and the distant snow-clad
peaks glittering in the gentle sunshine, combine to form a perfect picture. There are detailed
descriptions from the pens of those who feel an unctuous joy in painting the lily, kalsomining
the calla, and adding perfumes to the violet, the rose, and the orange.

The "Pasadena Alps" are so smeared with oleaginous gush that I had conceived against them a
sort of antipathy, which was not diminished by their barren, treeless appearance.

As Nature reasserted herself, this artificial nausea wore away. I took a drive to Millard's
Cañon, and was surprised at finding a charming wooded road winding up through the cañon along
a mountain stream. From the end of the carriage-road we walked half a mile to a picturesque
waterfall having a sheer descent of perhaps forty feet.

This revelation inspired a drive to Eaton's Cañon, where I found similar attractions, and which
led me to the new Mt. Wilson trail, or "Toll Road." I made inquiries, inspected the small but
substantial mules which do the pedestrian part of the trip, went up the trail a short distance,
and, after many assurances, arranged to make the ascent.

In fact, this trail is remarkably well built. It winds up the mountain by a gradual and even
ascent of nine miles, the grade nowhere exceeding ten per cent. There are two camps near the
summit, open all the year. You may return the same day or stay for the remainder of your life.

Take little luggage, of course: a heavy overcoat or wrap, and a small grip. In the winter the
nights are cold, and clouds and rain are not unlikely to present the compliments of the season.

The mountains of California are as topsy-turvy as its rivers. We used to learn in our physical
geographies that as the traveller ascends a mountain the large trees continually give place
to smaller--shrinking at last to stunted shrubs, with a summit of barren rock.

As our mules plod up Mt. Wilson, the trail at first is sandy, and the mountain's flanks a barren
waste, with thin covering of cactus and chaparral. Half a mile from the starting-point appear
small bushes, which grow larger as we move upward. The trail turns into a cañon, and becomes
a hard, cool pathway leading up through small live-oaks and high growth of bushes. We begin
to see slender pines and larger oaks. Now the trail leaves the cañon and winds out upon the
open mountain-side. Here the chaparral is green and flourishing.

We wind abruptly into a cañon. Bushes of wild lilac overhang the path. The manzanita reminds
one of lilies of the valley transplanted to California and growing on a bush. Down to the torrent
at the bottom of the cañon, and up its steep side, are large pines and live-oaks, mountain
mahogany and cedar. Near the summit we wind along a precipice where the trail is blasted from
the solid rock. Even here, any one who is disposed to "look aloft" will see pine trees hanging
over his head hundreds of feet above.

The summit is a forest of towering trees. On the topmost ridges are the monarchs of the mountains--oaks
three and four feet, and pines four and five feet in diameter. Of course this increase in the
size of timber is noticeably uniform, only where the soil and natural features of the mountains
favor it. But the summit of Mt. Wilson, at least, resembles a picnic ground raised nearly six
thousand feet above the sea. The air is light, dry, and exhilarating. The ground is carpeted
with pine needles. Delicate wild-flowers are seen in their season. In April I found wild peas
in blossom, harebells, morning-glories, poppies, and many varieties of yellow flowers. I also
saw hummingbirds, butterflies, swallows, and squirrels, and here and there patches of plain
white old-fashioned snow. It is a novel spectacle to see a small boy snowballing a butterfly.
In the spring even dead trees are glorified with a mantle of golden green moss. It covers the
trunks of some of the living pines, making an artistic background for the deep green of their
boughs.

From this upside-down mountain we look down upon rivers flowing bottom side up. And that is
California.

As to the safety of the ascent, no one need hesitate who is free from settled prejudice against
a side-hill. You will soon let the reins hang from the pommel of the saddle. One who chooses
may jump off and walk for a change. Only, if you are at the end of the procession, be careful
to keep between your mule and the foot of the mountain; otherwise he will wheel around and
wend his way homeward. If toiling along near the summit, absorbed in the beauties of the prospect,
it might be awkward to feel the halter jerked from your hand and to see the mule galloping
around a sharp bend with your satchel, hung loosely over the pommel, bobbing violently up and
down, and perhaps hurled off into space as the intelligent animal rounds the corner.

Yes, it is safe, but there is a spice of excitement about it. I was nervous at first, and seeing
that the mule wished to nibble such herbage as offered itself, I had thought it well to humor
him. At a narrow space with sharp declivity below, the beast fixed his jaws upon a small tough
bush on the upper bank. As he warmed up to the work, his hind feet worked around toward the
edge of the chasm. The bush began to come out by the roots, which seemed to be without end.
As the weight of the mule was thrown heavily backward, I looked forward with some apprehension
to the time when the root should finally give way: I saw now that the mule had fixed his stubborn
jaws upon the entrails of the mountain, and expected every instant to see other vital organs
brought to light. I dared not and could not move. The root gave way, allowing the mule to fall
backward, and startling him with a rattling down of stones and gravel. One foot slipped over
the edge, but three stuck to the path, and the majority prevailed. After that I saw it was
safer to let my faithful beast graze on the outer edge. All went well until he became absorbed
in following downward the foliage of a bush which grew up from below. As he stretched his neck
farther and farther down, I saw that he was bending his forelegs. His shoulders sank more and
more. There was nothing between me and the sea-level except the mule's ears. By frantic exertions
I worked myself backward, and was sliding down behind--too late. The bush broke, causing the
mule to fall back forcibly against the inner bank, with myself sandwiched between the adamantine
wall of the mountain and the well-shod heels of the mule. The animal, being as much scared
as myself, started up the trail at a gallop. I had saved my life but lost my mule. I have no
taste for overtaking runaway mules on a steep and interminable up-grade. It is a taste which
must be acquired. But then, of course, the mule would turn after his first alarm and tear down
to the stable. I resolved to push on in the hope of finding a wider portion of the path, or
at least of meeting the animal before he had acquired uncontrollable momentum.

At the very first turn a boy appeared hurrying back with my palfry. The mule had galloped on
until he overtook the rest of the party, who had sent him back in haste, while they followed
on as quickly as possible.

It flashed upon my mind that the mule understands his business. We imagine, egotistically,
that the mule is all the time thinking about us, and that he may take umbrage at some fancied
slight and leap with us down the abyss. Now the mule does not care to make the descent in that
way. He is thinking about himself just like the rest of us. We are only so much freight packed
upon his back.

The foregoing narrative may be exaggerated in some details, but the essential facts remain,
that the mule has a healthy appetite and that he looks out for himself.

A little further on I had an opportunity to judge how a passenger would conduct himself if
he should be thrown from the trail. At the point where the slope of the mountains is most abrupt,
certain repairs had lately been made upon the trail, and a man was now prying large stones
over the edge. They rolled and tumbled down, taking wild leaps into the air and plunging from
rock to rock. After they disappeared in the woods we could hear them crashing and clattering
down the cañon. A small avalanche of broken fragments followed in their wake.

It must have been a fine sight when the blasting was first done in the side of the rocky precipice:
when huge masses of rock, half as big as a house, were rent from the side of the mountain and
thundered down with frightful crash, cutting off huge trees and shaking the very mountains.
And now I will say again that the trail is wide and safe; the slopes on the side are seldom
very steep, and the mules could not be pushed over by any available power.

Some people, in fact, prefer the old trail because it is more wild and romantic and not so
well kept. The new road has enough picturesque features to satisfy me.

I remember when the valley came in sight again, after half an hour's climbing, the first objects
to catch my eye were the storage reservoirs, which dot the valley and are used in irrigation.
Their regular shapes and the margins of masonry about them give them, from the mountains, the
appearance of mirrors. One seemed almost directly below. Probably it was at least a hundred
feet in length. In the form of a rectangle with rounded corners, it was the exact counterpart
of a framed mirror. The surface was like polished glass, and trees upon the bank were reflected
with beautiful distinctness.

After another half-hour's ride comes a glimpse in the other direction. Through a gap in the
mountains we look for a moment behind the hills of Pasadena into the heart of the Sierra Madre.
Vistas of mountain-sides are seen on either hand, one beyond the other, the long slope of one
slightly overlapping that of its nearer neighbor, offering for our inspection a succession
of blue tints, becoming more and more delicate in the distance till they melt into the sky.

The mules care less for visible azure than for edible verdure, and soon carried us by this
picture. Far up the trail is a pretty scene upon our own mountain. Suddenly we came out of
the cool, wild forest upon a little level spot, by the spring of the mountain stream. Here
is an old camp with green grass growing up about the deserted building. After a final winding
journey around the steep southerly side of the mountain, came the first full view of the wild
chaos of broken ranges toward the desert. Then follows a gradual shaded ascent to the camp.
The world has varied panoramas of mountain scenery "set off" by the glitter of snowy peaks.
In California there are many accessible summits rising from half-tropical valleys. Mountains
which overlook the sea are without number. There may be in America other points from which
one may look down upon a "city of homes," and a "business centre" with sixty thousand busy
inhabitants. I do not know any spot apart from the mountains of Pasadena where you may put
all of these in combination. From the northerly peak of Mt. Wilson to the southerly peak of
Mt. Harvard is a distance by trail along the ridge of perhaps three miles, offering a variety
of points of view. To the north and east you may look down into a gorge two thousand feet beneath,
from which rises on the gentle breeze the mingled voice of brawling brook and murmuring pines.
Beyond is a confusion of green mountains, from which a range of white summits rises in the
calm distance. Toward the south are solitary peaks with halos of fleecy cloud.

As for the prospect in the other direction, it shows at once that the way to print upon the
mind a map of California's physical formation is to see it a la bird's-eye--as the short path
to acquaintance with a great city is a vertical one--to the tower of the City Hall.

One would require but a few more well-selected stations to map out all of Southern California.

The several valleys of which Los Angeles is the commercial capital are stretched out before
us like perfectly level plains, divided by ranges of hills. In the distance lies the glistening
Pacific, with the blue outlines of Catalina and more distant islands etched upon the western
sky. This picture is sometimes so distinct that you find yourself trying to recognize acquaintances
on the streets of Pasadena. Again everything is dreamy with haze. Another morning you may stumble
out trying to rub yesterday's sunburn from your eyes, and find everything below curtained by
a bank of snowy fog. As for myself, I enjoy the prospect most when I cannot see it at all--that
is, at night.

There is a varied interchange of signals between the mountains and the valley. At noon the
people here talk with their Pasadena friends by gleaming flashlight. Then there are the reservoirs
scattered over the valley. In certain lights they are not seen at all, but in line with the
sun they send up great flash signals themselves, and just after sunset they are always seen
reflecting the calm twilight. An hour after sunset our camp-fire is lighted. As we stand by
it, the horizon seems to have retired for the night. There is continuous sky, shading without
a break into the shadows below. Gazing dreamily down, I am startled by the flashing forth of
a hundred brilliant stars from what was the valley below. They disappear for a moment and then
blaze out and become a permanent constellation. These stars are too numerous to resemble any
known constellation. I concluded after a little that the mighty Orion had drawn his sword and
slain the Great Bear; that the lion had rashly interfered and his carcass had been dragged
to that of the bear, and that the exhausted Orion had thrown himself wearily upon them to rest.
And there are the Pleiades close by; with feminine curiosity they have come as near as they
dared, to see what it is all about.

Those wishing a scientific explanation of these phenomena must consult the Pasadena Electric
Lighting Company, except as to the stray Pleiades, which seem to have some connection with
the lights of the Raymond Hotel.

But what is that dim and curious meteor slowly moving toward the spot where Los Angeles used
to be? Perhaps it is the headlight which heralds the coming of the belated overland train.
Suddenly I see out of the darkness beyond Pasadena the blazing forth of a majestic cross, of
wavering, uneven outline, but made up of crowded multitudes of sparkling, glittering, scintillating
stars. Los Angeles has substantially the same system of street illumination as Pasadena.

You will note that I have abstained from hauling the sun above the eastern Sierras in the morning,
and from tucking it under the Pacific at night. This rearrangement of ponderous constellations
is all that my strength and my other engagements will permit. Those who want to know the glories
of the sunset and moonlight must climb Mt. Wilson themselves.

CHAPTER VIII.

CATCHING UP ON THE KITE-SHAPED TRACK.

Not the kite-shaped track of new-made trotting records and pneumatic tires, but a track upon
which you may pass a pleasant day riding after the iron horse.

The route extends easterly from Los Angeles to San Bernardino via Pasadena. Beyond San Bernardino
is the "loop," which will take us twelve miles farther east to Mentone, and around an oval
curve back to San Bernardino. Thence we kite down to Riverside, then southwesterly to Orange,
and so up to Los Angeles. Leaving Los Angeles at 9 A.M. you may return by 4 P.M., with time
for dinner at San Bernardino.

Taking the traveller back and forth across the central part of Southern California as it does,
the kite-shaped trip is naturally a favorite with tourists, and, as its "catchy" name indicates,
it caters to that element of travel. One always sees also anxious and eager "prospectors" or
expectant settlers, who lose no opportunity to inquire all about citrus and deciduous fruits,
and prices of land and of water for irrigating the same. This excursion will show you the heart
of the orange belt or belts of Southern California, especially on the northern and eastern
sides of the "kite."

The schedule of trains allows of convenient stop-overs, and several may be made to advantage.

Pasadena and Riverside of course must not be passed by. A short stay at Orange or Anaheim gives
an interesting glimpse of a region where orange culture is combined with that of other citrus
fruits, as well as the grape and olive.

