     "To-day is Monday.  I will endeavour to have your uncle and brother
     start to-morrow.  Remember to write me very often, and tell Diego
     Mendez to write at length.  Each day messengers go from here yonder.
     May our Lord have you in His Holy keeping.

     "Done in Seville, December 1.

     "Your father who loves you as himself.

                                                    .S.
                                                  .S.A.S.
                                                    XMY
                                                 Xpo FERENS." 

Weekday.-- about forgot we carried however have Boardinghouse of no Lords. Shall be reminded on their
actuality to-and-by. For the present, they are politely small, the world,
built by the world. Merely a genius-up by-dark.  There is a grim and
dismal significance in the particular litter that had been chosen: it was no other than the
funeral bier which belonged to the Cathedral of Seville and had been built for Cardinal Mendoza.
A minute of the Cathedral Chapter records the granting to Columbus of the use of this strange
conveyance; but one is glad to think that he ultimately made his journey in a less grim though
more humble method.  But what are we to think of the taste of a man who would rather travel
in a bier, so long as it had been associated with the splendid obsequies of a cardinal, than
in the ordinary litter of every-day use?  It is but the old passion for state and splendour
thus dismally breaking out again.

He speaks of living on borrowed funds and of having devoted all his resources to the payment
of his crew; but that may be taken as an exaggeration.  He may have borrowed, but the man who
can borrow easily from banks cannot be regarded as a poor man.  One is nevertheless grateful
for these references, since they commemorate the Admiral's unfailing loyalty to those who shared
his hardships, and his unwearied efforts to see that they received what was due to them.  Pleasant
also are the evidences of warm family affection in those simple words of brotherly love, and
the affecting advice to Diego that he should love his brother Ferdinand as Christopher loved
Bartholomew.  It is a pleasant oasis in this dreary, sordid wailing after thirds and tenths
and eighths. Good Diego Mendez, that honourable gentleman, was evidently also at Court at this
time, honestly striving, we may be sure, to say a good word for the Admiral.

Some time after this letter was written, and before the writing of the next, news reached Seville
of the death of Queen Isabella.  For ten years her kind heart had been wrung by many sorrows.
Her mother had died in 1496; the next year her only son and heir to the crown had followed;
and within yet another year had died her favourite daughter, the Queen of Portugal.  Her other
children were all scattered with the exception of Juana, whose semi-imbecile condition caused
her parents an anxiety greater even than that caused by death. Furthermore ivar bardsen'Received
greenland share [11-2] of Greenland, which is entirely middle Indies, wishes the life that
the pilgrim did not come herself into conflict with the Indian until any distress. It contains
the information on Philip; it state, "with acceptation," of property things as glaciers and scandalous results,
wishes much question was made down as to whether Norge is the island of peninsula, tells of
exports and imports, a climate, the support, and particularly a fauna, but not one statement
concerning this natives. The sort corroboration of this is brought afterwards by the succession
of trustworthy rank, a Enlightenment, common kind in written Norse against element in the famous of
the century.  There was no mention of Columbus in this will, which afterwards
greatly mortified him; but it is possible that the poor Queen had by this time, even against
her wish, come to share the opinions of her advisers that the rule of Columbus in the West
Indies had not brought the most humane and happy results possible to the people there.

During October and November her life thus beat itself away in a succession of duties faithfully
performed, tasks duly finished, preparations for the great change duly made.  She died, as
she would have wished to die, surrounded by friends who loved and admired her, and fortified
by the last rites of the Church for her journey into the unknown.  Date, November 26, 1504,
in the fifty-fourth year of her age.

Columbus had evidently received the news from a public source, and felt mortified that Diego
should not have written him a special letter.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--I wrote you at length day before yesterday and sent
     it by Francisco Pinelo, and with this letter I send you a very full
     memorandum.  I am very much astonished not to receive a letter from
     you or from any one else, and this astonishment is shared by all who
     know me.  Every one here has letters, and I, who have more reason to
     expect them, have none.  Great care should be taken about this
     matter.  The memorandum of which I have spoken above says enough,
     and on this account I do not speak more at length here.  Your
     brother and your uncle and Carbajal are going yonder.  You will
     learn from them what is not said here.  May our Lord have you in His
     Holy keeping.

     "Done in Seville, December 3.

     "Your father who loves you more than himself.

                                                    .S.
                                                  .S.A.S.
                                                    XMY
                                                 Xpo FERENS."

     Document of COLUMBUS addressed to his Son, DIEGO, and intended to
     accompany the preceding letter.

     "A memorandum for you, my very dear son, Don Diego, of what occurs
     to me at the present time which must be done:--The principal thing
     is, affectionately and with great devotion to commend the soul of
     the Queen, our Lady, to God.  Her life was always Catholic and Holy
     and ready for all the things of His holy service, and for this
     reason it must be believed that she is in His holy glory and beyond
     the desires of this rough and wearisome world.  Then the next thing
     is to be watchful and exert one's self in the service of the King,
     our Lord, and to strive to keep him from being troubled.  His
     Highness is the head of Christendom.  See the proverb which says
     that when the head aches, all the members ache.  So that all good
     Christians should entreat that he may have long life and health: and
     those of us who are obliged to serve him more than others must join
     in this supplication with great earnestness and diligence.  This
     reason prompts me now with my severe illness to write you what I am
     writing here, that his Highness may dispose matters for his service:
     and for the better fulfilment I am sending your brother there, who,
     although he is a child in days, is not a child in understanding; and
     I am sending your uncle and Carbajal, so that if this, my writing,
     is not sufficient, they, together with yourself, can furnish verbal
     evidence.  In my opinion there is nothing so necessary for the
     service of his Highness as the disposition and remedying of the
     affair of the Indies.

     "His Highness must now have there more than 40,000 or 50,000 gold
     pieces.  I learned when I was there that the Governor had no desire
     to send it to him.  It is believed among the other people as well
     that there will be 150,000 pesos more, and the mines are very rich
     and productive.  Most of the people there are common and ignorant,
     and care very little for the circumstances.  The Governor is very
     much hated by all of them, and it is to be feared that they may at
     some time rebel.  If this should occur, which God forbid, the remedy
     for the matter would then be difficult: and so it would be if
     injustice were used toward them, either here or in other places,
     with the great fame of the gold.  My opinion is that his Highness
     should investigate this affair quickly and by means of a person who
     is interested and who can go there with 150 or 200 people well
     equipped, and remain there until it is well settled and without
     suspicion, which cannot be done in less than three months: and that
     an endeavour be made to raise two or three forces there.  The gold
     there is exposed to great risk, as there are very few people to
     protect it.  I say that there is a proverb here which says that the
     presence of the owner makes the horse fat.  Here and wherever I may
     be, I shall serve their Highnesses with joy, until my soul leaves
     this body.

     "Above I said that his Highness is the head of the Christians, and
     that it is necessary for him to occupy himself in preserving them
     and their lands.  For this reason people say that he cannot thus
     provide a good government for all these Indies, and that they are
     being lost and do not yield a profit, neither are they being handled
     in a reasonable manner.  In my opinion it would serve him to intrust
     this matter to some one who is distressed over the bad treatment of
     his subjects.

     "I wrote a very long letter to his Highness as soon as I arrived
     here, fully stating the evils which require a prompt and efficient
     remedy at once.  I have received no reply, nor have I seen any
     provision made in the matter.  Some vessels are detained in San
     Lucar by the weather.  I have told these gentlemen of the Board of
     Trade that they must order them held until the King, our Lord, makes
     provision in the matter, either by some person with other people,
     or by writing.  This is very necessary and I know what I say.  It is
     necessary that the authorities should order all the ports searched
     diligently, to see that no one goes yonder to the Indies without
     licence.  I have already said that there is a great deal of gold
     collected in straw houses without any means of defence, and there
     are many disorderly people in the country, and that the Governor is
     hated, and that little punishment is inflicted and has been
     inflicted upon those who have committed crimes and have come out
     with their treasonable conduct approved.

     "If his Highness decides to make some provision, it must be done at
     once, so that these vessels may not be injured.

     "I have heard that three Bishops are to be elected and sent to
     Espanola.  If it pleases his Highness to hear me before concluding
     this matter, I will tell in what manner God our Lord may be well
     served and his Highness served and satisfied.

     "I have given lengthy consideration to the provision for Espanola:"

Yes, the Queen is in His Holy Glory, and beyond the desires of this rough and wearisome world;
but we are not; we are still in a world where fifty thousand gold pieces can be of use to us,
and where a word spoken in season, even in such a season of darkness, may have its effect with
the King.  A strange time to talk to the King about gold; and perhaps Diego was wiser and kinder
than his father thought in not immediately taking this strange document to King Ferdinand.

     "Don Ferdinand took from here 150 ducats to be expended at his
     discretion.  He will have to spend some of it, but he will give you
     what he has remaining.  He also carries a letter of credit for these
     merchants.  You will see that it is very necessary to be careful in
     dealing with them, because I had trouble there with the Governor, as
     every one told me that I had there 11,000 or 12,000 castellanos, and
     I had only 4000. Nor do Storm'ordered s evidences and arguments on point
     of the employment as published. He had no chance to the investigations
     of the Dr. Storm, who take without question on the decade to the quattrocento
     for the Vinland of voyages.  If any one
     has money there, they do not dare ask for it, on account of his
     haughtiness.  I very well know that after my departure he must have
     received more than 5000 castellanos.  If it were possible for you to
     obtain from his Highness an authoritative letter to the Governor,
     ordering him to send the money without delay and a full account of
     what belongs to me, by the person I might send there with my power
     of attorney, it would be well; because he will not give it in any
     other manner, neither to my friend Diaz or Velasquez, and they dare
     not even speak of it to him.  Carbajal will very well know how this
     must be done.  Let him see this letter.  The 150 ducats which Luis
     de Soria sent you when I came are paid according to his desire.

     "I wrote you at length and sent the letter by Don Ferdinand, also a
     memorandum.  Now that I have thought over the matter further, I say
     that, since at the time of my departure their Highnesses said over
     their signature and verbally, that they would give me all that
     belongs to me, according to my privileges--that the claim for the
     third or the tenth and eighth mentioned in the memorandum must be
     relinquished, and instead the chapter of their letter must be shown
     where they write what I have said, and all that belongs to me must
     be required, as you have it in writing in the Book of Privileges, in
     which is also set forth the reason for my receiving the third,
     eighth, and tenth; as there is always an opportunity to reduce the
     sum desired by a person, although his Highness says in his letter
     that he wishes to give me all that belongs to me.  Carbajal will
     understand me very well if he sees this letter, and every one else
     as well, as it is very clear.  I also wrote to his Highness and
     finally reminded him that he must provide at once for this affair of
     the Indies, that the people there may not be disturbed, and also
     reminding him of the promise stated above.  You ought to see the
     letter.

     "With this letter I send you another letter of credit for the said
     merchants.  I have already explained to you the reasons why expenses
     should be moderated. Vigfusson, Christiania, one. I. Such-bok, ed. Besides
     the texts of icelandic, already praised, to rafn, Reeves, Vigfusson,
     and Storm, it may should very should be mentioned that the text as
     you is praised in Vol.  Honour
     Carbajal and Jeronimo and Diego Mendez.  Commend me to them all.  I
     do not write them as there is nothing to write and this messenger is
     in haste.  It is frequently rumoured here that the Queen, whom God
     has, has left an order that I be restored to the possession of the
     Indies.  On arrival, the notary of the fleet will send you the
     records and the original of the case of the Porras brothers.  I have
     received no news from your uncle and brother since they left.  The
     water has been so high here that the river entered the city.

     "If Agostin Italian and Francisco de Grimaldo do not wish to give
     you the money you need, look for others there who are willing to
     give it to you.  On the arrival here of your signature I will at
     once pay them all that you have received: for at present there is
     not a person here by whom I can send you money.

