Talk about all these things often and brightly and you will find that school has become a most
desirable and fascinating place, and that every night there will be a great satisfaction in
climbing on a chair to scratch off from the calendar another day done before the joy of going
there.

Then you can buy such delightful things to be put into that waiting trunk--things often to
be looked at, but never to be used till that wonderful place is reached--long red and blue
pencils, with rubbers on the ends; boxes of writing paper, all gay with pictures and exactly
right for the first letters home; a foot rule, and, if you are a truly brave mother, a real
jackknife to sharpen the same red and blue pencils and add to the joy of living.

It is absorbing work, too, to mark them all with one's name, so they may never be mistaken
for any other little boy's property, and to make a place for a new toy or two, though if you
are wise you will not buy many playthings now, but will save them to send later, one by one,
by parcel post, to be received with a joy it is a pity you cannot be there to see, it will
be so out of proportion to any other pleasure you could give by such simple means.

Of course, you must have some kodak pictures taken--ever so many of them--showing the family,
the house, and the pets, as well as the boy himself. These are to be kept, too, to go in letters.
They will be not only very precious possessions, but if they are labeled carefully they will
be extremely useful in the classroom when your boy begins to learn to speak the names of the
people at home.

Since they are to be used for this double purpose, be sure that each member of the family group
is very distinctly marked, or the names of Aunt Mary and sister Helen may get hopelessly mixed
in the boy's mind!

Finally, the last little garment and the last package is in the trunk, the last day is scratched
off the calendar, and the boy himself is on the train. And now let me tell you something that
you will not believe--that you will even resent, but which is perfectly true, and which I hope
will comfort you a little when you say good-by to the boy--and that is this: it really is very
unusual for a little child from five to eight years old to be homesick at school. There are
so many distractions, so many new and curious things to see, so many interesting things to
do, and there are so many other children all friendly and all happy, that even if your boy
cries when you leave him, the probabilities are high that before you reach the station he will
be playing--shyly or uproariously, as temperament may decide--but certainly happily, with some
new-found friend.

One of the most delightful things about a school for deaf children is the way all the other
pupils welcome, pet, and look out for a newcomer. Every one makes much of him, and it would
be hard indeed to be lonely long in the midst of so much attention and friendliness.

And now a word about letters.

Before you sent the boy to school I hope you didn't fail to teach him to recognize the written
names of the different members of the family, so that he might be sure to understand whom his
first letters came from. And don't forget that he will be eager for letters! Too many mothers
feel that it is useless to write to their children during their first year away from them.
They are so sure that no word from them can be understood that they content themselves with
sending inquiries to the proper authorities, and an occasional picture postcard to the children
themselves, and fail to realize how soon their little boy or girl grasps the fact that the
other children have real letters in envelopes, and that these come from home, or how sharp
a disappointment it is when day after day goes by and brings them nothing.

If you could see, as I have seen, a letter, so worn that it was cracked on all its folds and
dingy with much handling, carried day after day inside a little blouse, or guimpe, and put
under the pillows every night, you would understand a little what those pieces of paper, covered
with very imperfectly understood characters, but carrying love and remembrance from home, mean,
even before the children can read them. And very soon, if you are an observant mother, your
child will really be able to read them.

For example, your boy's first letter may be something like this:

     "DEAR MAMMA:

     "I am well. I love you.               HARRY."

When you answer it you might say, with the certainty that every word would be understood:

     "DEAR HARRY:

     "Mamma loves you. Papa is well. Mamma and Papa love you.

     "Good-by.                             MAMMA."

Not a very satisfactory letter, do you say? Perhaps not to you, but most delightful and understandable
to the little boy to whom it is written. And if a little later you follow it with another containing
one of the kodak pictures of the cat, with "Tommy" written under it, accompanying such a note
as this, not only your little boy, but his teacher will bless you:

     "DEAR HARRY:

     "Mamma is well. Papa is well. Mamma and Papa love you. Tommy loves
     you, too. Tommy is the cat. Tommy wants to see you.

     "Good-by.                             MAMMA."

I have written these two notes not as models to be copied, but to show you how with a little
thought and care you may ring the changes on almost every sentence that your boy learns; and
make use of every new word, giving him a great deal of pleasure and helping to fix the phrases
in his mind and to make him realize that they are really valuable additions to his means of
communication. But I do not mean that you should confine your letters entirely to words and
sentences that the child already knows. In fact, new expressions, if they are short and simple,
and if the main part of your letter is made up of things the child understands at once, will
add very much to the interest of your letter. He will be eager to know what the strange words
mean, and the new nouns, verbs, and adjectives will go immediately to swell his vocabulary.

Like any child just learning to talk, your little boy will at first use nouns, when later he
will use pronouns, so in your earliest letters to him you will be surer of making yourself
understood if you do the same. Probably, too, with the exception of two or three sentences
like "I am well. I love you," you will notice that all his statements are written in the past
tense, and that will be a guide to you to confine your own remarks to the past, for the most
part, till you notice that he has begun to use the future and the present himself. Watch his
letters carefully and adapt your own language forms to his.

There are two things that, as a general rule, I would advise you not to write about, and these
are any illnesses in the family and--that supreme joy of school life--the box you are planning
to send.

My reasons for this taboo are that even very little children are often made unhappy and anxious,
sometimes for days, if they know there is sickness at home, while in the second place boxes
are so often delayed that they become the source of much disturbance of mind when the expressman
fails to bring them.

I knew a little girl who watched every delivery for a week and cried after every one because
the box her mother had promised her did not appear. So let illness and boxes go unmentioned
till you can write something like this, "Papa was sick last week. He is well now. He goes to
the office every day." And after the box has had time to reach its destination you can say,
"Mamma sent a box to you Wednesday. She put two handkerchiefs, some new shoes, six oranges,
and some money in the box. Papa gave the money to you."

If you are like most mothers, before many weeks have gone by you will be eager to visit your
boy and see for yourself how he is getting on; whether he is really as happy as the letters
from school assure you he is; what he is learning in class, and whether he has blankets enough
on his bed and sugar enough on his oatmeal.

But before the letter announcing the day of your arrival is posted or your ticket is bought,
sit down by the fire and think the matter over.

You have confidence in the school, else you would never have sent your boy there; and you have
been told repeatedly either that the little fellow is happy and well or, it may be, that he
was rather homesick at first, but has now settled down to a very comfortable and contented
state of mind and is doing well in class.

Now, if you go to see him too soon after he has left home there will really be a good deal
more danger that the boy will be homesick after you leave him than there was when you took
him to school in September, even if he has been quite happy up to the time of your visit.

In the first place, he will think, drawing his conclusions from visits that he may have made
before, that school is over and that you have come to take him home. So it will be a great
surprise and shock when you go away without him. And in any case, after the separation of some
weeks, his love for you will make him want to be with you, and he will really suffer when you
say good-by.

So, if I were you, I would wait till after the Christmas holidays before going for my visit.
By that time he will be fully settled in his new life and will look on it as an established
part of existence. He will know from observation that other mothers come for a little while
and then go home again without taking their children with them, and his advance in understanding
will make it much easier to explain to him that your visit is temporary and will not make any
radical change in his own life.

The delay will mean a good deal of self-sacrifice for you, but may very possibly save your
boy from a sharp attack of homesickness, while later in the year this danger will usually have
disappeared, and your visit will bring nothing but pleasure to you both and will help to make
school what you want it to be--a place where all sorts of delightful things are constantly
sure to happen.

XXV

DURING THE SCHOOL PERIOD

But the opportunities and obligations of the parents of deaf children to aid in their education
by no means cease when the children enter school.

Throughout the entire period of school life, and even after their children leave school, the
parents can be of very great assistance to them. During the time that the school is in session,
if the child is away from home, the parents should write not less than once a week, and oftener
if possible. These letters should contain all the little happenings at home, no matter how
insignificant and uninteresting they may seem. If these things are expressed in simple language,
using short sentences and common words, the letters will be one of the most efficient means
of aiding the children to an ability to read, that the teacher possesses. The child is full
of eager curiosity to know the smallest details of the familiar home life. He will exert his
mind more to dig out the meaning of the language of home letters than he will to understand
a story in a reader. Miss Worcester has suggested one or two little letters that would do during
the first half year at school. By the beginning of the second year it would be helpful if the
letters read something like this:

     "MY DEAR BOY:

     "We got your nice letter. Thank you for it. We always like to know
     what you do at school. We like to know the names of your
     schoolmates. We are glad when you tell us about your books and your
     teachers. Mother, Tom, Jane and I are well. We talk about you
     often. We are glad you can go to school. A cat frightened the hens.
     The hens ran. The cat was naughty. I drove the cat away. I think
     the cat wanted to eat the little chickens.

     "Tom hid behind the door. He jumped out quickly. He frightened
     Jane. She screamed. He laughed. Jane cried. Mother scolded Tom
     because he made Jane cry. Tom said Jane was a baby. Jane said Tom
     was a bad boy. Then Jane laughed. She forgave Tom. Tom said he was
     sorry.

     "We all love you.

     "Good-by.

                                 "Your loving
                                         "FATHER."

Each year the letters can be a little more grown up and they should always be frequent.

XXVI

DURING VACATION

When vacation time comes and the children come home for the summer, the home folks will probably
have some trouble at first in understanding their imperfect speech. Do not be discouraged.
The speech will steadily improve from year to year, and you will soon be able to comprehend
it, even when it is very faulty. But do not accept from the child anything except the best
speech he is capable of. When the boy first arrives you will, probably, not know just how much
to expect of him. To begin with, it will do him no harm to ask him to repeat what he says,
even if you really did understand him the first time. He will probably speak much more distinctly
the second time than he did the first, and you will see that you can demand of him more than
you at first thought he could do. He will not be discouraged by being asked to repeat. He is
used to it. The price of good speech, like the price of liberty, is eternal vigilance. During
the school period, teachers and parents should give unremitting attention to demanding of the
children, every time they speak, the best enunciation of which they are at that time capable.

If you do not understand the boy, or he does not understand you, do not let him resort to gestures,
nor use them yourself. Give him pencil and paper, if necessary. It will not be necessary often
or long, and each day occasions of difficulty will grow fewer.

Provide some useful and helpful occupation for the child for at least a part of each day. Do
not let him play at random all the time. Continue a certain regularity of life in the matter
of meals and getting up and going to bed. Insist upon respectful behavior and good manners.
He has these demanded of him at school. Do not let him return in the fall having lost much
that he had gained during the preceding year.

When he is at home keep him in touch with the activities and the topics of discussion in the
family circle. Do not let him withdraw or feel shut out. This will take a good deal of effort
and self-denial and patience, but in the long run it will repay the parents. Failure to do
this will eventually bring sorrow to all concerned. Train the other children to do their share
of this. Insist upon their telling the deaf one their plans and their doings. Unless some care
is taken he will see the others going without knowing where or why, he will sometimes lose
pleasures because he did not hear the talk that was going on around him and no one thought
to tell him. This has a tendency to make him bitter and unsocial.

From the very beginning of spoken intercourse with the deaf child the greatest care should
be taken to speak NATURALLY to him. Avoid entirely all exaggeration of lip movement and mouth
opening. Speak a little slowly, perhaps, and always distinctly, but never with facial contortions
and waving hands. The aim of his oral training is to enable him to understand the ordinary
speech of people when they speak to him, and to do this he requires an immense amount of practice,
just as the hearing child requires a great deal of practice for years before he can understand
what people are saying to him. If you speak to him in a different way from that employed when
speaking to others he will learn to understand that, but not your ordinary manner of speaking.
He will also imitate it himself. The Chinaman speaks and understands only "Pidgin" English
because only "Pidgin" English has been used in communicating with him. If people had spoken
to the Chinaman as they do to other people he would have gradually acquired good English.

So it is with the deaf child. If you want him to gradually learn to understand the ordinary
intercourse of life, you must exercise him in it for years. You must not expect him to get
much at first, any more than you expect the baby to understand to start with. But each month
he will gain more, and by the time he is sixteen or seventeen he will have very nearly overtaken
his hearing brother. But if you always address him with a yawning mouth and flopping tongue
and lips, and use deaf-mute English to him, he will progress in his understanding and use of
that, but it is not what you wish him to acquire. Be patient, be gentle, be untiring and unremitting
in your efforts, but BE NATURAL. Keep your eyes on his eyes and speak only when his gaze is
upon your face.

Before closing I ought to say that (more is the pity) there are many persons who live by trading
upon the ignorance and credulity of the unfortunate. The deaf and the friends of the deaf fall
an easy prey to the advertisements of quack remedies, ear drums, etc., that are always useless
and sometimes actually dangerous. The American Medical Association has had the courage to issue
a pamphlet in which these fake cures are described and exposed, and every deaf person, and
parent of a deaf child, should have one of these pamphlets. The title is "Deafness Cure Fakes,"
and can be obtained by writing to the American Medical Association, 535 North Dearborn Street,
Chicago, Illinois.

Any one who has read these pages will easily see that the suggestions are all aimed to secure
for the deaf a treatment similar in kind, though somewhat different in degree, to that accorded
the normal hearing person. The tendency has been to differentiate the deaf too much from the
hearing. By adopting the procedure of pure oralism, effectively applied under real oral conditions,
uncontaminated, during the educational period from five to twenty years of age, by finger spelling
or signs, the deaf will be far more fully restored to a normal position in the social and industrial
world than they can ever be by the silent methods at present so largely used during their most
impressionable years.

XXVII

SOME NOTS

Do not be downcast.

Deafness does not, necessarily, bring dumbness.

Do not consider the deaf child as different from other children.

Do not cease talking to him.

Do not speak with exaggerated facial movements.

Do not exempt him from the duties and tasks and obedience properly demanded of all children.

Do not let him grow selfish.

Do not let him grow indifferent.

Do not be in haste.

Do not show impatience.