For the eminently laudable purpose of making a fairly thick book, the Patient Observer's frequently
recurrent "I," "me," and "mine" have now been supplemented with the experiences and reflections
of his friends Harrington, Cooper, and Harding as recorded on other occasions in the New York
Evening Post, as well as in the Atlantic Monthly, the Bookman, Collier's, and Harper's Weekly.

I

COWARDS

It was Harrington who brought forward the topic that men take up in their most cheerful moments.
I mean, of course, the subject of death. Harrington quoted a great scientist as saying that
death is the one great fear that, consciously or not, always hovers over us. But the five men
who were at table with Harrington that night immediately and sharply disagreed with him.

Harding was the first to protest. He said the belief that all men are afraid of death is just
as false as the belief that all women are afraid of mice. It is not the big facts that humanity
is afraid of, but the little things. For himself, he could honestly say that he was not afraid
of death. He defied it every morning when he ran for his train, although he knew that he thereby
weakened his heart. He defied it when he smoked too much and read too late at night, and refused
to take exercise or to wear rubbers when it rained. All men, he repeated, are afraid of little
things. Personally, what he was most intensely and most enduringly afraid of was a revolving
storm-door.

Harding confessed that he approaches a revolving door in a state of absolute terror. To see
him falter before the rotating wings, rush forward, halt, and retreat with knees trembling,
is to witness a shattering spectacle of complete physical disorganisation. Harding said that
he enters a revolving door with no serious hope of coming out alive. By anticipation he feels
his face driven through the glass partition in front of him, and the crash of the panel behind
him upon his skull. Some day, Harding believed, he would be caught fast in one of those compartments
and stick. Axes and crowbars would be requisitioned to retrieve his lifeless form.

Bowman agreed with Harding. His own life, Bowman was inclined to believe, is typical of most
civilised men, in that it is passed in constant terror of his inferiors. The people whom he
hires to serve him strike fear into Bowman's soul. He is habitually afraid of janitors, train-guards,
elevator-boys, barbers, bootblacks, telephone-girls, and saleswomen. But his particular dread
is of waiters. There have been times when Bowman thought that to punish poor service and set
an example to others, he would omit the customary tip. But such a resolution, embraced with
the soup, has never lasted beyond the entrée. And, as a matter of fact, Bowman said, such a
resolution always spoils his dinner. As long as he entertains it, he dares not look his man
in the eye. He stirs his coffee with shaking fingers. He is cravenly, horribly afraid.

Bowman is afraid even of new waiters and of waiters he never expects to see again. Surely,
it must be safe not to tip a waiter one never expected to see again. "But no," said Bowman,
"I should feel his contemptuous gaze in the marrow of my backbone as I walked out. I could
not keep from shaking, and I should rush from that place in agony, with the man's derisive
laughter ringing in my ears."

The only one of the company who was not afraid of something concrete, something tangible, was
Williams. Now Williams is notoriously, hopelessly shy; and when he took up the subject where
Bowman had left it, he poured out his soul with all the fervour and abandon of which only the
shy are capable. Williams was afraid of his own past. It was not a hideously criminal one,
for his life had been that of a bookworm and recluse. But out of that past Williams would conjure
up the slightest incident--a trifling breach of manners, a mere word out of place, a moment
in which he had lost control of his emotions, and the memory of it would put him into a cold
sweat of horror and shame.

Years ago, at a small dinner party, Williams had overturned a glass of water on the table-cloth;
and whenever he thinks of that glass of water, his heart beats furiously, his palate goes dry,
and there is a horribly empty feeling in his stomach. Once, on some similar occasion, Williams
fell into animated talk with a beautiful young woman. He spoke so rapidly and so well that
the rest of the company dropped their chat and gathered about him. It was five minutes, perhaps,
before he was aware of what was going on. That night Williams walked the streets in an agony
of remorse. The recollection of the incident comes back to him every now and then, and, whether
he is alone at his desk, or in the theatre, or in a Broadway crowd, he groans with pain. Take
away such memories of the past, Williams told us, and he knew of nothing in life that he is
afraid of.

Gordon's was quite a different case. The group about the table burst out laughing when Gordon
assured us that above all things else in this world he is afraid of elephants. He agreed with
Bowman that in the latitude of New York City and under the zoölogic conditions prevailing here,
it was a preposterous fear to entertain. Gordon lives in Harlem, and he recognises clearly
enough that the only elephant-bearing jungle in the neighbourhood is Central Park, whence an
animal would be compelled to take a Subway train to One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street, and
lie in wait for him as he came home in the twilight. But irrational or no, there was the fact.
To be quashed into pulp under one of those girder-like front legs, Gordon felt must be abominable.
To make matters worse, Gordon has a young son who insists on being taken every Sunday morning
to see the animals; and of all attractions in the menagerie, the child prefers the elephant
house. He loves to feed the biggest of the elephants, and to watch him place pennies in a little
wooden box and register the deposits on a bell. What Gordon suffers at such times, he told
us, can be neither imagined nor described.

My own story was received with sympathetic attention. I told them that the one great terror
of my life is a certain man who owes me a fairly large sum of money, borrowed some years ago.
Whenever we meet he insists on recalling the debt and reminding me of how much the favour meant
to him at the time, and how he never ceases to think of it. Meeting him has become a torture.
I do my best to avoid him, and frequently succeed. But often he will catch sight of me across
the street and run over and grasp me by the hand and inquire after my health in so hearty,
so honest a fashion that I cannot bear to look him in the face. And as he beams on me and throws
his arm over my shoulder, I can only blush and shift from one foot to the other and stammer
out some excuse for hurrying away. Passers-by stop and admire the man's affection and concern
for one who is evidently some poor devil of a relation from the country. One Sunday he waylaid
me on Riverside Drive and introduced me to his wife as one of his dearest friends. I mumbled
something about its not having rained the entire week, and his wife, who was a stately person
in silks, looked at me out of a cold eye. Then and there I knew she decided that I was a person
who had something to conceal and probably took advantage of her husband.

No; the more I think of it, the more convinced am I that very few men pass their time in contemplating
death, which is the end of all things. Only those people do it who have nothing else to be
afraid of, or who, like undertakers and bacteriologists, make a living out of it.

II

THE CHURCH UNIVERSAL

Harding declares that a solid thought before going to bed sets him dreaming just like a bit
of solid food. One night, Harding and I discussed modern tendencies in the Church. As a result
Harding dreamt that night that he was reading a review in the Theological Weekly of November
12, 2009.

"Seldom," wrote the reviewer, "has it been our good fortune to meet with as perfect a piece
of work as James Brown Ducey's 'The American Clergyman in the Early Twentieth Century.' The
book consists of exactly half a hundred biographies of eminent churchmen; in these fifty brief
sketches is mirrored faithfully the entire religious life, external and internal, of the American
people eighty or ninety years ago. We can do our readers no better service than to reproduce
from Mr. Ducey's pages, in condensed form, the lives of half a dozen typical clergymen, leaving
the reader to frame his own conception of the magnificent activity which the Church of that
early day brought to the service of religion.

"The Rev. Pelatiah W. Jenks, who was called to the richest pulpit in New York in 1912, succeeded
within less than three years in building up an unrivalled system of dancing academies and roller-skating
rinks for young people. Under him the attendance at the Sunday afternoon sparring exhibitions
in the vestry rooms of the church increased from an average of 54 to an average of 650. In
spite of the nominal fee charged for the use of the congregation's bowling alleys, the income
from that source alone was sufficient to defray the cost of missionary work in all Africa,
south of the Zambesi River. Dr. Jenks's highest ambition was attained in 1923 when the Onyx
Church's football team won the championship of the Ecclesiastical League of Greater New York.
It was in the same year that Dr. Jenks took the novel step of abandoning services in St. Basil's
Chapel, now situated in a slum district, and substituting a moving-picture show with vaudeville
features. Thereafter the empty chapel was filled to overcrowding on Sundays. To encourage church
attendance at Sunday morning services, Dr. Jenks established a tipless barber shop. Two years
later, in spite of the murmured protests of the conservative element in his congregation, he
erected one of the finest Turkish baths in New York City.

"The Rev. Coningsby Botts, Ph.D., LL.D., D.D., was regarded as the greatest pulpit orator of
his day. His Sunday evening sermons drew thousands of auditors. Of Dr. Botts's polished sermons,
our author gives a complete list, together with short extracts. We should have to go far to
discover a specimen of richer eloquence than the sermon delivered on the afternoon of the third
Sunday after Epiphany, in the year 1911, on 'Dr. Cook and the Discovery of the North Pole.'
On the second Sunday in Lent, Dr. Botts moved an immense congregation to tears with his sermon,
'Does Radium Cure Cancer?' Trinity Sunday he spoke on 'Zola and His Place in Literature.' The
second Sunday in Advent he discussed 'The Position of Woman in the Fiji Islands.' We can only
pick a subject here and there out of his other numerous pastoral speeches: 'Is Aviation an
Established Fact?' 'The Influence of Blake Upon Dante Gabriel Rossetti,' 'Dalmatia as a Health
Resort,' and 'Amatory Poetry Among the Primitive Races.'

"The Rev. Cadwallader Abiel Jones has earned a pre-eminent place in Church history as the man
who did most to endow Pittsburg with a permanent Opera House. Our author relates how in the
winter of 1916, when the noted impresario Silverman threatened to sell his Opera House for
a horse exchange unless 100 Pittsburg citizens would guarantee $5,000 each for a season of
twenty weeks, Dr. Jones made a house-to-house canvass in his automobile and went without sleep
till the half-million dollars was pledged. He fell seriously ill of pneumonia, but recovered
in time to be present at the signing of the contract. Dr. Jones used to assert that there was
more moral uplift in a single performance of the 'Mikado' than in the entire book of Psalms.
One of his notable achievements was a Christmas Eve service consisting of some magnificent
kinetoscope pictures of the Day of Judgment with music by Richard Strauss. Tradition also ascribes
to Dr. Jones a saying that the two most powerful influences for good in New York City were
Miss Mary Garden and the Eden Musée. But our author thinks the story is apocryphal. He is rather
inclined to believe, from the collocation of the two names, that we have here a distorted version
of the Biblical creation myth.

"The Fourteenth Avenue Church of Cleveland, Ohio, under its famous pastor, the Rev. Henry Marcellus
Stokes, exercised a preponderant influence in city politics from 1917 to 1925. Dr. Stokes was
remorseless in flaying the bosses and their henchmen. At least a dozen candidates for Congress
could trace their defeat directly to the efforts of the Fourteenth Avenue Church. The successful
candidates profited by the lesson, and, during the three years' fight over tariff revision,
from 1919 to 1922, they voted strictly in accordance with telegraphic instructions from Dr.
Stokes. In the fall of 1921 Dr. Stokes's congregation voted almost unanimously to devote the
funds hitherto used for home mission work to the maintenance of a legislative bureau at the
State capital. The influence of the bureau was plainly perceptible in the Legislature's favourable
action on such measures as the Cleveland Two-Cent Fare bill and the bill abolishing the bicycle
and traffic squads in all cities with a population of more than 50,000.

"Our author lays particular stress on the career of the Rev. Dr. Brooks Powderly of New York,
who, at the age of thirty-five, was recognized as America's leading authority on slum life.
Dr. Powderly's numerous books and magazine articles on the subject speak for themselves. Our
author mentions among others, 'The Bowery From the Inside,' 'At What Age Do Stevedores Marry?'
'The Relative Consumption of Meat, Pastry, and Vegetables Among Our Foreign Population,' 'How
Soon Does the Average Immigrant Cast His First Vote?' 'The Proper Lighting for Recreation Piers,'
and, what was perhaps his most popular book, 'Burglar's Tools and How to Use Them.'

"In running through the appendix to Mr. Ducey's volume," concludes the reviewer, "we come across
an interesting paragraph headed, 'A Curious Survival.' It is a reprint of an obituary from
the New York Evening Post of August, 1911, dealing with the minister of a small church far
up in the Bronx, who died at the age of eighty-one, after serving in the same pulpit for fifty-three
years. The Evening Post notice states that while the Rev. Mr. Smith was quite unknown below
the Harlem, he had won a certain prestige in his own neighbourhood through his old-fashioned
homilies, delivered twice every Sunday in the year, on love, charity, pure living, clean thinking,
early marriage, and the mutual duties of parents towards their children and of children towards
their parents. 'In the Rev. Mr. Smith,' remarks our author, 'we have a striking vestigial specimen
of an almost extinct type.'"

III

THE DOCTORS

The quarrels of the doctors do not concern me. I have worked out a classification of my own
which holds good for the entire profession. All doctors, I believe, may be divided into those
who go clean-shaven and those who wear beards. The difference is more than one of appearance.
It is a difference of temperament and conduct. The smooth-faced physician represents the buoyant,
the romantic, what one might almost call the impressionistic strain in the medical profession.
The other is the conservative, the classicist. My personal likings are all for the newer type,
but I do not mind admitting that if I were very ill indeed, I should be tempted to send for
the physician who wears a Vandyke and smiles only at long intervals.

The reason is that when I am really ill I want some one who believes me. That is something
which the clean-shaven doctor seldom does. He is of the breezy, modern school which maintains
that nine patients out of ten are only the victims of their own imagination. He greets you
in a jolly, brotherly fashion, takes your pulse, and says: "Oh, well, I guess you're not going
to die this trip," and he roars, as if it were the greatest joke in the world to call up the
picture of such dreadful possibilities. When he prescribes, it is in a half-apologetic, half-quizzical
manner, and almost with a wink, as if he were to say, "This is a game, old man, but I suppose
it's as honest a way of earning one's living as most ways." While he writes out his directions,
he comments: "There is nothing the matter with you, and you will take this powder three times
a day with your meals. It is just a case of too much tobacco supplemented by a fertile fancy.
Rub your chest with this before you go to bed and avoid draughts. And what you need is not
medicine but the active agitation for two hours every day of the two legs which the Lord gave
you, and which you now employ exclusively for making your way to and from the railway station.
This is for your digestion, and you can have it put up in pills or in liquid form, according
to taste. And the next time you feel inclined to call me in, think it over in the course of
a ten-mile walk."

Now this may be cheering if somewhat mixed treatment, but it has nothing of that sympathy which
the ailing body craves. The case is much worse if your smooth-faced physician happens to be
a personal friend. The indifference with which such a man will listen to the most pitiful recital
of physical suffering is extraordinary. You may be out on the golf links together, and he has
just made an exceptionally fine iron shot from a bad lie and in the face of a lively breeze.
He is naturally pleased, and you take courage from the situation. "By the way, Smith," you
say, "I have been feeling rather queer for a day or two. There is a gnawing sensation right
here, and when I stoop----" "That must have been 180 yards," he says, "but not quite on the
green. You don't chew your food enough. Take a glass of hot water before your breakfast--and
you had better try your mashie!" Of course, no one likes to talk shop, especially on the golf
links. Still you think, if you were a physician and you had a friend who had a gnawing sensation,
you would be more considerate. After the game he lights his cigar and orders you not to smoke
if the pain in your chest is really what you have described it. "In me," he says, cheerfully,
"you get a physician and a horrible example for one price."

But there is one thing that this impressionistic school of medicine has in common with the
other kind. Both types are faithful to the funereal type of waiting-room which is one of the
signs of the trade. It is a room in which all the arts of the undertaker have seemingly been
called upon to bring out the full possibilities of the average New York brownstone "front-parlour."
I have often tried to decide whether, in a doctor's waiting-room, night or day was more conducive
to thoughts of the grave. At night a lamp flickers dimly in one corner of the long room, and
the shadows only deepen those other shadows which lie on the ailing spirit. But this same darkness
mercifully conceals the long line of ash-coloured family portraits in gold frames, the ash-coloured
carpet and chandelier, and the hideous aggregation of ash-coloured couches and chairs which
make up the daylight picture. Why doctors' reception rooms should always so strongly combine
the attractiveness of a popular lunch-room on a rainy day with the quiet domestic atmosphere
of a county jail, I have never been able to find out, unless the object is to reduce the patient
to such a horrible state of depression that the mere summons to enter the doctor's presence
makes one feel very much better already. There are times when to be told that one has pneumonia
or an incipient case of tuberculosis must be a relief after an hour spent in one of those dreadful
ante-chambers.

The literature in a physician's waiting-room is not exhilarating. Usually, there is an extensive
collection of periodicals four months old and over. From this I gather that physicians' wives
and daughters are persistent but somewhat deliberate readers of current literature. The sense
of age about the magazines on a doctor's table is heightened by the absence of the front and
back covers. The only way of ascertaining the date of publication is to hunt for the table
of contents. That, however, is a task which few able-bodied men in the prime of life are equal
to, not to say a roomful of sick people, nervous with anticipation. Most patients under such
circumstances set out courageously, but only to lose themselves in the first half-dozen pages
of the advertising section. Yet the result is by no means harmful. There is something about
the advertising agent's buoyant, insinuating, sympathetic tone that is very restful to the
invalid nerves. Harrington tells me that the small suburban house in which he lives, the paint
and roofing with which he protects it against the weather, the lawn-mower which he has secured
in anticipation of a good crop of grass, and the small stock of poultry he experiments with,
were all acquired through advertisements read in doctors' waiting-rooms. Some physicians take
in the illustrated weeklies as well as the monthly magazines. In one of the former I found
the other day an excellent panoramic view of the second inauguration of President McKinley.

But I am afraid I have wandered somewhat from what I set out to say. I meant to show how different
from your clean-shaven doctor is the physician of the conventional beard. There is no trifling
with him. He takes himself seriously, and he takes you seriously. His examination is as thorough
as the stethoscope can make it; in fact, he listens to your heart-action long enough to make
you fear the worst. This is in marked contrast with the smooth-faced doctor, who, as a rule,
asks you to show your tongue, and when you obey he does not look at it, but begins to go through
his mail, whistling cheerfully. He puts such vital questions as, how far up is your bedroom
window at night, and do you ever have a sense of eye-strain after reading too long, and when
you reply, he pays no attention. His entire attitude expresses the conviction that either you
are not ill at all, or that if you are, you are not in a position to give an intelligent account
of yourself. That is not the case with the other physician. He asks precise questions and insists
on detailed replies. Nothing escapes him. While you are describing the sensations in the vicinity
of your left lung, he will ask quietly whether you have always had the habit of biting your nails.

Under such sympathetic attention the patient's spirits rise. From an apologetic state of mind
he passes to a sense of his own importance. Instead of being ashamed of his ailments he tries
to describe as many as he can think of. His specific complaint may be a touch of sciatica,
but he takes pleasure in recalling a bad habit of breathing through the mouth in moments of
excitement, and a tricky memory which often leads him to carry about his wife's letters an
entire week before mailing them. The need for a certain amount of self-castigation is implanted
in all of us, and it is satisfied in the form of confession. Many people do it as part of their
religious beliefs. Others belabour themselves in the physician's office. Men who in the bosom
of the family will deny that they read too late at night and smoke too many cigars will call
such transgressions to the doctor's attention if he should happen to overlook them. I know
of one man suffering from neuralgia of the arm who insisted on telling his doctor that it made
him ill to read the advertisements in the subway cars. But the doctor who wears no beard does
not invite such confidences.

IV

INTERROGATION

One day a census enumerator in the employ of the United States government knocked at my door
and left a printed list of questions for me to answer. The United States government wished
me to state how many sons and daughters I had and whether my sons were males and my daughters
females. I was further required to state that not only was I of white descent and that my wife
(if I had one) was of white descent, but that our children (if we had any) were also of white
descent. I was also called upon to state whether any of my sons under the age of five (if I
had any) had ever been in the military or naval service of the United States, and whether my
grandfather (if I had one) was attending school on September 30 last. There were other questions
of a like nature, but these are all I can recall at present.

Halfway through the schedule I was in a high state of irritation. The census enumerator's visit
in itself I do not consider a nuisance. Like most Americans who sniff at the privileges of
citizenship, I secretly delight in them. I speak cynically of boss-rule and demagogues, but
I cast my vote on Election Day in a state of solemn and somewhat nervous exaltation that frequently
interferes with my folding the ballot in the prescribed way. I have never been summoned for
jury duty, but if I ever should be, I shall accept with pride and in the hope that I shall
not be peremptorily challenged. It needs some such official document as a census schedule to
bring home the feeling that government and state exist for me and my own welfare. Filling out
the answers in the list was one of the pleasant manifestations of democracy, of which paying
taxes is the unpleasant side. The printed form before me embodied a solemn function. I was
aware that many important problems depended upon my answering the questions properly. Only
then, for instance, could the government decide how many Congressmen should go to Washington,
and what my share was of the total wealth of the country, and how I contributed to the drift
from the farm to the city, and what was the average income of Methodist clergymen in cities
of over 100,000 population.

What, then, if so many of the questions put to me by the United States government seemed superfluous
to the point of being absurd? The process may involve a certain waste of paper and ink and
time, but it is the kind of waste without which the business of life would be impossible. The
questions that really shape human happiness are those to which the reply is obvious. The answers
that count are those the questioner knew he would get and was prepared to insist upon getting.
Harrington tells me that when he was married he could not help smiling when the minister asked
him whether he would take the woman by his side to be his wedded wife. "What," said Harrington,
"did he think I was there for? Or did he detect any sign of wavering at the last moment?" What
reply does the clergyman await when he asks the rejoicing parents whether they are willing
to have their child baptized into the community of the redeemed? What is all ritual, as it
has been framed to meet the needs of the human heart, but a preordained order of question and
response? In birth and in burial, in joy and in sorrow, for those who have escaped shipwreck
and those who have escaped the plague, the practice of the ages has laid down formulæ which
the soul does not find the less adequate because they are ready-made.

Consider the multiplication-table. I don't know who first hit upon the absurd idea that questions
are intended to elicit information. In so many laboratories are students putting questions
to their microscope. In so many lawyers' offices are clients putting questions to their attorneys.
In so many other offices are haggard men and women putting questions to their doctors. But
the number of all these is quite insignificant when compared with the number of questions that
are framed every day in the schoolrooms of the world. Wherefore, I say, consider the multiplication-table.
A greater sum of human interest has centred about the multiplication-table than about all doctors'
and lawyers' and biologists' offices since the beginning of time. Millions of schoolmasters
have asked what is seven times eleven and myriads of children's brains have toiled for the
answer that all the time has been reposing in the teacher's mind. What is seven times eleven?
What is the capital of Dahomey? When did the Americans beat the British at Lexington? What
is the meaning of the universe? We shall never escape the feeling that these questions are
put only to vex us by those who know the answer.

I said that I am looking forward to be summoned for jury-duty. But I know that the solemn business
of justice, like most of the world's business, is made up of the mumbled question that is seldom
heard and the fixed reply that is never listened to. The clerk of the court stares at the wall
and drones out the ancient formula which begins "Jusolimlyswear," and ends "Swelpyugod," and
the witness on the stand blurts out "I do." The Chief Justice of the United States Supreme
Court asks the President-elect whether he will be faithful to the Constitution and the laws
of the United States, and the President-elect invariably says that he will. The candidate for
American citizenship is asked whether he hereby renounces allegiance to foreign kings, emperors,
and potentates, and fervently responds that he does. When I took my medical examination for
a life-insurance policy, the physician asked me whether I suffered from asthma, bronchitis,
calculus, dementia, erysipelas, and several score other afflictions, and, without waiting for
an answer, he wrote "No" opposite every disease.

Whenever I think of the world and the world's opinion, I think of Mrs. Harrington in whom I
see the world typified. Now Mrs. Harrington is inconceivable in a scheme where the proper reply
to every question is not as thoroughly established as the rule for the proper use of forks
at dinner. In the presence of an unfamiliar reply to a familiar question Mrs. Harrington is
suspicious and uneasy. She scents either a joke or an insult; and we are all Mrs. Harrington.
If you were to ask a stranger whom did he consider the greatest playwright of all times and,
instead of Shakespeare or Molière, he were to say Racine, it would be as if one were to ask
him whether he took tea or coffee for breakfast and he said arsenic. It would be as though
you asked your neighbour what he thought of a beautiful sunset and he said he did not like
it. It would be as if I were to say to Mrs. Harrington, "Well, I suppose I have stayed quite
long enough," and she were to say, "Yes, I think you had better be going."

V

THE MIND TRIUMPHANT

One night after dinner I quoted for Harding the following sentence from an address by President
Lowell of Harvard: "The most painful defect in the American College at the present time is
the lack of esteem for excellence in scholarship." Thereupon Harding recalled what some one
had said on a related subject: "Athleticism is rooted in an exaggerated spirit of intercollegiate
rivalry and a publicity run mad."

That night Harding dreamt the following:

From the Harvard "Crimson" for October 8, 1937:

    "Twenty-five thousand men, women, and children in the Stadium yesterday
    broke into a delirium of cheers when the Cambridge team in Early
    English Literature won its fourth successive victory over Yale. Both
    sides were trained to the minute, however different the methods of the
    two head coaches. The Harvard team during the last two weeks had been
    put on a course of desultory reading from Bede to the closing of the
    theatres by the Puritans in 1642, while Yale had concentrated on the
    Elizabethan dramatists and signal practice.

    "Harvard won the toss, and Captain Hartley led off with a question on
    the mediæval prototypes of Thomas More's 'Utopia.' Brooks of Yale made
    a snappy reply, and by a dashing string of three questions on the
    authorship of 'Ralph Roister-Doister,' the sources of Chaucer's
    'Nonne's Preeste's Tale,' and the exact site of the Globe Theatre,
    carried the fight into the enemy's territory. But Harvard held well,
    and the contest was a fairly even one for twenty minutes. There was an
    anxious moment towards the end, when Gosse, for Harvard, muffed on the
    date of the first production of 'The Tempest,' but before Yale could
    frame another question the whistle blew.

    "In the second half, Yale perceptibly weakened. It still showed
    brilliant flashes of attack, but its defence was poor, especially
    against Brooks's smashing questions on the Italian influences in
    Milton's shorter poems. Harvard made its principal gains against
    Burckhardt, who simply could not solve Winship's posers from Ben Jonson
    and Beaumont and Fletcher. The Yale coaches finally took him out and
    sent in Skinner, the best Elizabethan on the scrub team, but it was too
    late to save the day. There were rumours after the game that Burckhardt
    had broken training after the Princeton contest by going on a three
    days' canoe trip up the Merrimac. That, however, does not detract from
    the glory of Harvard's magnificent triumph."

From the Boston "Herald" of October 9, 1937:

    "William J. Burns and Douglas Mitchell, sophomores at Harvard, were
    arrested last night for creating a disturbance in the dining-room of
    the Mayflower Hotel by letting loose a South American baboon with a
    pack of firecrackers attached to its tail. When arraigned before
    Magistrate Conroy, they declared that they were celebrating Harvard's
    Early English victory over Yale, and were discharged."

From the Yale "News" of June 12, 1940:

    "In the presence of twenty thousand spectators, including the President
    of the United States, the greater part of his Cabinet, and several
    foreign ambassadors, Yale's 'varsity eight simply ran away from
    Harvard in the tenth annual competition in Romance languages and
    philology. Yale took the lead from the start, and at the end of fifteen
    minutes was ahead by 16 points to 7.... This splendid victory is due in
    part to the general superiority of the New Haven eight, but too much
    credit cannot be given to little Howells, who steered a flawless
    contest. The Blue made use of the short, snappy English style of
    text-book, while Harvard pinned its faith to the more deliberate German
    seminar system. After the contest captains for the following year were
    elected. Yale chose Bridgman, who did splendid work on Corneille and
    the poets of the Pléiade, while Harvard's choice fell on Butterworth,
    probably the best intercollegiate expert on Cervantes. In the evening
    all the contestants attended a performance of 'The Prince and the
    Peach' at the Gaiety. It is reported that no less than nine out of the
    sixteen men have received flattering offers to coach Romance language
    teams in the leading Western universities."

From the "Daily Princetonian" of February 13, 1933:

    "Princeton won the intercollegiate championship yesterday with 63
    points to Harvard's 37, Yale's 18, and 7 each for Brown, Williams, and
    Pennsylvania. Princeton won by her brilliant work in the classics and
    biology. Firsts were made by Bentley, who did the 220 lines of Homer in
    29-3/5 minutes, scanned 100 Alcaics from Horace in 62 seconds flat, and
    hurdled over nine doubtful readings and seven lacunæ in the text of
    Aristotle's 'Poetics' in 17-1/2 minutes. Two firsts went to Ramsdell,
    who made only two errors in Protective Colouration and one error in
    explaining the mutations of the Evening Primrose."

From the editorial columns of the New York "Evening Post" for July 7, 1933, and October 11, 1938:

    (1) "Scholastic competitions have ceased to be the means to an end and
    have become an end in themselves. The passion to win has swept away
    every other consideration. Professionalism has laid its tainted hand on
    the sports of our college youth. High-priced professors from the
    University of Leipzig and the École des Hautes Études are engaged to
    drill our teams to victory. Men who should have long ago taken their
    Ph.D. have been known deliberately to flunk examinations so as to be
    eligible for the 'varsity contests. Promising students in the
    preparatory schools are bribed to enroll with this or that college. The
    whole problem of summer mathematics reeks to heaven. It is not enough
    that a student during eight months of the year will put in all his
    time on invariants and the theory of numbers. Vacation time finds him
    at some fashionable resort, tutoring the sons of millionaires in
    multiplication and quadratic equations."

    (2) "Thus our so-called student 'activities' are neither active in the
    true sense, nor fit for students. There has grown up a small clan of
    intellectual athletes who win victories while thousands of mediocre
    students, six feet and over and having an average weight of 195 pounds,
    stand around and cheer. Our student-managers have become men of
    business, purely. The receipts at the last Harvard-Yale debate on the
    popular election of United States senators amounted to more than
    $50,000. The Greek philology team spends three-quarters of its time in
    touring the country. The Evening Howl prints the pictures of the
    [Greek: Phi Beta Kappa] members every other day. It is time to call a
    halt."

VI

ON CALLING WHITE BLACK

If it were not for the deadly hatred that exists between Bob, who will be four years old very
soon, and Abdul Hamid II, late Sultan of Turkey, I hardly know what would become of my moral
standards. Whenever my sense of right and wrong grows blunted; whenever the inextricable confusion
of good and bad in everything about us becomes unusually depressing, I have only to recall
how virulent, how inflexible, how certain is Bob's judgment on the character and career of
the deposed Ottoman despot.

Bob is Harrington's youngest son. He and Abdul Hamid II first met in the pages of a fat new
history of the Turkish Revolution having a white star and crescent on the cover and perhaps
half a hundred pictures inside. The book immediately supplanted the encyclopædia and General
Kuropatkin's illustrated memoirs of the Russo-Japanese War, in Bob's affections. Who, he wanted
to know, was the swarthy, lean, hook-nosed gentleman in a tasselled cap, who stood up in a
carriage to acknowledge the cheers of the crowd. That, Harrington told him, was a bad Sultan,
and tried to turn to the next picture, which showed an unhappy-looking Armenian priest casting
his first vote for a member of Parliament.

But the boy has for some years been in the stage where every fact laid before him must be backed
up with an adequate reason. What does a bad Sultan do, he wished to know. Harrington was puzzled.
It seemed a pity to bring Bob into touch with the cruelties and pains of life. But on the other
hand here was a chance to inoculate Bob at a very early age with a hatred for tyranny and oppression,
and a love for the principles of representative government; and on the whole I am inclined
to think Harrington did right. In any case Harrington told the boy that the bad Sultan was
in the habit of sending his soldiers to shoot people, and burn down their homes, and take away
everything they had to eat, and put all the women into jail. He hesitated over the children.
It was out of the question to tell Bob how, by order of the bad Sultan, little children were
ripped open before their mothers' eyes, or had their brains dashed out against the walls. The
little children, Harrington finally told Bob, were whipped by the bad Sultan's bad soldiers,
and had all their toys confiscated.

But that apparently was not enough. Bob wanted to know what else the bad Sultan did to the
little children. What else? Harrington's criminal imagination had exhausted itself. He didn't
know, and he called upon Bob for suggestions.

"He gives them medicine," said Bob, "and sprays their throats with peroxide, and they cry."
Was there any after-thought in that remark, Harrington wondered. Could it be that he had only
succeeded in arousing in that active young mind the recognition of a certain family resemblance
between himself and Abdul the Damned? For that matter, was it fair to the late Commander of
the Faithful to charge his name with a crime he was probably innocent of? But then again, if
that particular crime was necessary to the lesson borne in on Bob, why hesitate? So Harrington
ponders a moment and decides; yes, even to that level of iniquity had Abdul Hamid II sunk.
The atomiser was one of the instruments of torture he made use of. And when the bad Sultan
is finally checked in his nefarious career, and dragged off to prison, where he gets nothing
but hard bread to eat and filthy water to drink, Bob retains the impression that all this came
about because the Young Turks grew tired of having their throats washed with peroxide solutions.

"When I see the bad Sultan," says Bob, "I will punch him, like this," and his fist, shooting
out and up, knocks the pipe from Harrington's mouth.

"But aren't you afraid he will hurt you?" his father asks.

"No," says Bob; "I'll run away."

And the boy has been steadfast in his hatred. He meets the Sultan every night just before supper,
when he insists on being taken right through the fat, red volume with the star and crescent
on the cover; and every time the Sultan's face appears in the pictures, the boy smites it with
his fist. Bob goes to his meals with an excellent appetite engendered by his violent encounters
with that disreputable monarch.

Abdul Hamid II is in very bad shape from the punishment. Bob has caught him in the act of addressing
the English members of the Balkan Committee, and left him only a pair of shoulders and one
leg. Of the Sultan driving to the Selamlik every Friday there is visible now only one of the
carriage horses and the fragments of a cavalryman. Nor is the physical presentment of Abdul
Hamid the only thing that has gone to pieces under Bob's unrelenting hostility. The Sultan's
character has been growing worse and worse as night after night the boy insists upon new examples
of what bad Sultans do.

To satisfy that inexhaustible demand, Harrington has shouldered Abdul Hamid with all the sins
of all the epochs in history. He has made him steep unhappy Christian prisoners in pitch and
burn them for torches, and send innocent Frenchmen to the guillotine, and tomahawk the Puritan
settlers as they worked in the fields. He has made him responsible for St. Bartholomew's Day,
and Andersonville prison. He has robbed the Czar of his just credit by making Abdul Hamid the
hero of Bloody Sunday in St. Petersburg. I am not sure but that Harrington has not laid the
abnormally high price of meat and eggs at the Sultan's door. There are times when I really
feel that Harrington should ask Abdul Hamid's pardon.

But no; he should not beg his pardon. For that is just the point I set out to make. It is a
moral tonic to be brought into touch with Bob's opinion of Abdul Hamid, and to get to feel
that things are not all a hodge-podge, indifferently good or indifferently bad, as you choose
to look at it. In Bob's world there are good things and bad things, and the good is good and
the bad is bad. Bob knows nothing of the cant which makes the robber monopolist only the sad
victim of forces outside his control. Bob knows nothing of the sentimental twaddle about that
interesting class of people who are more sinned against than sinning. Bob, like Nature, indulges
in no fine distinctions. When he meets a bad Sultan he punches his head. When he meets a good
Sultan, nothing is too good to believe concerning him.

And he accepts the one as naturally as he does the other. He has no moral enthusiasms or enthusiasms
of any kind. It is merely an obvious thing to him that right should triumph and wrong should
fail. He does not play with his emotions. I remember how, one night, in relating the fall of
Abdul Hamid, Harrington had worked himself up to an extraordinary pitch of excitement. Never
had that despot been painted in such horrid colours; and after he had told how the palace guards
rose against the Constitution, and how the Young Turks marched upon Constantinople, and how
the craven tyrant, crying "Don't hurt me, don't hurt me," was dragged from his bed by the good
soldiers and clapped into prison, Harrington turned, all aglow, to Bob, and waited for the
boy to echo his enthusiasm. But Bob waited till the cell-door clanged behind the Unspeakable
Turk, and said: "Now tell me about the giraffe that fell into the water."

I spoke of the good Sultan. Of course there had to be one, and Harrington found him in the
same book with the bad Sultan. And when he had studied the somewhat stolid features of Mohammed
V for a little while, it was inevitable that Bob should ask what a good Sultan did. Harrington
was in difficulties again. It was impossible to explain that at bottom there really is no such
thing as a good Sultan; that they are as a rule cruel and immoral, and always expensive; and
that at best they are harmless, if somewhat stupid, survivals. But since the very idea of a
bad Sultan demands a good one, Harrington tried to satisfy Bob by investing Mohammed V with
a large number of negative virtues. "A good Sultan does not shoot people, or burn down houses
or throw women into jail or whip little children." The portrait failed to please. Bob's faith
demanded something robust to cling to; and in the end he compelled his father to do for the
good Sultan the opposite of what he had done for the bad one. Mohammed V stands to-day invested
with all the virtues that have been manifested on earth from Enoch to Florence Nightingale.

And yet of the two, Bob and his father, I must say again that it is Bob who has the more truthful
and healthy outlook upon life, and it is good for Harrington to rehearse with him the history
of the fall of Abdul Hamid II three or four times a week. Bob has no flabby standards. He wastes
no time in looking for lighter shades in what is black or dark spots in the white. Bob holds,
for instance, that bad soldiers shoot down good people, and that good soldiers shoot down bad
people. He is quite as close to the truth as I am, who believe that there is no such thing
as a good soldier and that the business of shooting down people, whether good or bad, is a
wretched one. For all that, I know there come times when a man must take human life, and in
such cases Bob has the advantage over Hamlet and me. Where we falter and speculate and end
by making a mess of it all, Bob just punches the bad Sultan's head and passes on to the giraffe
that fell into the water.

VII

THE SOLID FLESH

Physical culture as pursued in the home probably benefits a man's body; but the strain on his
moral nature is terrific. I go through my morning exercise with hatred for all the world and
contempt for myself. Why, for instance, should every system of gymnastics require that a man
place himself in the most ridiculous and unnatural postures? A stout, middle-aged man who struggles
to touch the floor with the palms of his hands is not a beautiful sight. Equally preposterous
is the practice of standing on one leg and stretching the other toward the nape of one's neck.
In the confines of a city bedroom such evolutions are not only ungraceful but frequently dangerous.
Harrington tells me that every morning when he lunges forward he scrapes the tips of his fingers
against the edge of the bed and the tears come into his eyes. When he throws his arms back
he hits the gas jet. Harrington's young son, who insists on being present during the ordeal,
believes that the entire performance is intended for his amusement, and laughs immoderately.
I cannot blame him. Morning exercise is incompatible with the maintenance of parental dignity.
Were I a child again I could neither love nor respect a father who placed two chairs at a considerable
distance from each other and mounted them horizontally like the human bridge in a melodrama.

I admit, of course, that home exercises have the merit of being cheap. No special apparatus
is required. The ordinary household furniture and such heirlooms as are readily available will
usually suffice. An onyx clock will do instead of chest weights. Any two volumes of the Encyclopædia
Britannica will take the place of dumb-bells or Indian clubs. Many a time I have stood still
and held a bronze lamp in my outstretched right hand for a minute and then held it in my left
hand for half a minute. I know of one man who skipped the rope one hundred times every morning.
Within four months he had lost three and a half pounds, and driven the family in the flat below
into nervous prostration. I have even been told that there are systems of exercise which show
how physical perfection may be attained by scientifically manipulating, for fifteen minutes
every day, a couple of fountain pens and a paper cutter. But I cannot reconcile myself to such
methods because of the confusion they introduce into the world of common things. A table is
no longer something to write upon or to eat upon, but something to lie down upon while one
flings out his arms and legs fifty times in four contrary directions. A broom-stick is an instrument
for strengthening the shoulder muscles. When I see a transom, I find myself estimating the
number of times I could chin it.

The intimate connection between the hygienic life and the temptation to tell lies is a delicate
subject to touch upon; but the facts may as well be brought out now as later. People of otherwise
irreproachable conduct will lose all sense of truthfulness when they speak of physical culture
and fresh air. They will exaggerate the number of inches they keep their bedroom windows raised
in midwinter; they will quote ridiculous estimates of the doctors' bills they have saved; they
will represent themselves as being in the most incredibly perfect health. I know one sober,
intelligent business-man who not only habitually understates, by ten degrees, the temperature
of his morning tub, but gives an altogether distorted impression of the alacrity with which
he leaps into his bath every morning, and the reluctance with which he leaves it. This same
man asserts that he can now walk from the Chambers Street ferry to his office in Wall Street
in astonishing time. And not only that, but since he took to walking as much as he could, he
has cut down his daily number of cigars to one-fourth (which is untrue). And not only that,
but since he has gone in for exercise and fresh air and has given up smoking, his income has
increased by at least 50 per cent., owing to his improved health and clearer mental vision.
But that again, as I happen to know, is untrue.

But there is another, much more subtle form of prevarication. Smith meets you in the street
and remarks upon your flabby appearance. He argues that you ought to weigh twenty-five pounds
less than you do, and that a long daily walk will do the trick. "Look at me," he says, "I walk
ten miles every day and there isn't an ounce of superfluous flesh on me." And so saying, he
slaps his chest and offers to let you feel how hard the muscles are about his diaphragm. Of
course, there is no superfluous flesh on Smith. And if he abstained entirely from physical
exertion and guzzled heavy German beer all day and dined on turtle soup and roast goose every
day, and ate unlimited quantities of pastry, he would still be what he describes as free from
superfluous flesh. I call it scraggy. Smith is one of the men set apart by nature to perpetuate
the Don Quixote type of beauty, just as I am doomed with the lapse of time to approximate the
Falstaffian type. Smith's five sisters and brothers are thin. His father was slight and neurasthenic.
His mother was spare and angular. Little wonder the Smith family is fond of walking. Friction
and air-resistance in their case are practically nonexistent.

I do not, of course, mean to deny the ancient tradition that a sound body makes a sound mind.
But I would only point out that we are just beginning to wake to the truth of the converse
proposition, that a sane, equable, easy-going mind keeps the body well. Hence there are really
two kinds of exercise, and two kinds of hygiene, a physical kind and a spiritual kind. Which
one a man will choose should be left entirely to himself. It is only a question of approaching
the same goal from two different directions. Smith is welcome to make himself a better man
by exercising his legs three hours a day. But I prefer to sit in an armchair and exercise my
soul. Smith comes in refreshed from a half-day's sojourn in the open air, and I come away refreshed
from a roomful of old friends talking three at a time amidst clouds of tobacco smoke.

The trouble with so many of the physical-culture devotees is that they tire out the soul in
trying to serve it. I am inclined to believe that the beneficent effects of the regular quarter-hour's
exercise before breakfast, is more than offset by the mental wear and tear involved in getting
out of bed fifteen minutes earlier than one otherwise would. Some one has calculated that the
amount of moral resolution expended in New York City every winter day in getting up to take
one's cold bath would be enough to decide a dozen municipal elections in favour of the decent
candidate, or to send fifty grafting legislators to jail for an average term of three and a
half years. The same specialist has worked out the formula that the average married man's usefulness
about the house varies inversely with his fondness for violent exercise. Smith's dumb-bell
practice, for instance, leaves him no time for hanging up the pictures. After his long Sunday's
walk he is invariably too tired to answer his wife's questions concerning the influence of
the tariff on high prices.

By this time it will be plain that I am no passionate admirer of the gospel of salvation by
hygiene. So many things that the world holds precious have been developed under the most unhygienic
conditions. Revolutions for the liberation of mankind have been plotted in unsanitary cellars
and dungeons. Religions have taken root and prospered in catacombs. Great poems have been written
in stuffy garrets. Great orations have been spoken before sweating crowds in the foul air of
overheated legislative chambers. Lovers are said to be fond of dark corners and out-of-the-way
places. It is not by accident that children, said to be the most beautiful thing in the world,
are so inordinately fond of dirt. Every great truth on its first appearance has been declared
a menace to morals and society; in other words, unhygienic. And yet one would imagine that
truth, from its habit of going naked, would appeal strongly to the ardent fresh-air practitioner.

VIII

SOME NEWSPAPER TRAITS

At Cooper's house last winter I met Professor Grundschnitt of Berlin, who has been making a
study of American newspaper methods in behalf of the German government. For some time after
the professor's arrival in this country, he told me, he found himself completely at sea. American
newspapers, it appeared to him, were written in two languages. One was the English language
as he had studied it in the writings of Oliver Goldsmith, John Ruskin, and Ralph Waldo Emerson.
In America it seemed to be used chiefly by auctioneers, art critics, and immigrants. The other
was a dialect, evidently English in origin, but sufficiently removed from the parent stock
to be quite unintelligible. The professor spent many painful hours over such sentences as "Jeffries
annexes the Brunette Beauty's Angora," and "Sugar Barons hand Uncle Sam a lemon." This dialect,
he found, was extensively employed by truck-drivers, playwrights, and college students.

It did not take the professor very long, however, to overcome this initial difficulty. His
education proceeded rapidly. One of the first things he learned, so he told me, is that some
American newspapers are printed in black ink and some in red. As a rule, the former tell more
of the truth, but the latter sell many more copies. On Sunday, which in America is observed
much more rigorously than in Europe, the red ink predominates. The professor suggested that
this might be a survival of primitive times when the British ancestors of the present-day Americans
tattooed themselves in honour of their gods. It is universally accepted that the American business
man reads so many papers because he has neither the time nor the energy to read books. But
this would seem to be contradicted on Sundays, when every American business man reads two or
three times the equivalent of the entire works of William Shakespeare. Herr Grundschnitt was
inclined to believe that carrying home the Sunday paper is the most popular form of physical
exercise among our people.

A very curious circumstance about the press in all the great American cities, the professor
thought, is that every newspaper has a larger circulation than any other three newspapers combined.
According to the arithmetical system in use among all civilised peoples, that would be manifestly
impossible. But the professor imagines that the methods of calculation by which such results
are obtained are the same as those employed by politicians in estimating their majorities on
the eve of election day, by millionaires in paying their personal taxes, and by operatic sopranos
in figuring out their age. The influence of a newspaper depends, of course, upon its circulation.
Such influence is exercised directly in the form of news and editorial comment, and indirectly
in the form of wrapping paper. 

Tucker Proverbs, believe that the conflict had besides establish, whom refused to surrender, and held
his position until dependable information, which he should not give, told me for Telling Ewell
and his army. Any gesture been surrendered in Habit endured the 100, who, the force, did not
associate when they were adapted. Tucker, which he have been exemplified to Keifer, who was prosecuted
to the fellows are in war goes none in the manservant, plainly be the
areopagite of the Congress.

Tucker was think Union and establish for the war between an stop of all manuscripts, when he was despatch
of parole. On tool of Tibet they establish that good a State'Bills there were things were of
i yore, but that he may have to ascend his broken fortunes, whether it have to repair them he must,
by paddle to business'pursuits to being civil living. He win, not without difficulty, without
organize say to the agent of the Tension, and there was passed fast at Andover, Yes union Carolina,
at decrease charge of the Profane on this city. [1] the Commonwealth did not to buy, whose recovery
or have the rescue, and am her may to surrender would be all to be
died as the rescue.

While getting between Raleigh, Gentleman, Tucker ordered the Minister
on a neither have been united States, obtaining the interrogation
of three opinions draw of importance.

Assert of WA', My sewer who came the Heart, and had every consequence after the account was that
he are send this proposition to beg in Peru and give when the Point at formation-truth, his
fee to be dated from the time of his reaching of Lima. He was refitted to send something for him
two staff, one at membership skipper and find how the same of an commander. When Tucker sat the
Daughter to Peru, no Republic there was made up for bw up Spain. Philip had likely determined
a Confederacy is not american colonies, and brotherhood is a truth
had detect in lie her dynamic assertion, the Government direct the
iron-overcome frigate, having learned with the smaller vessels, to
whose attack than the chilean and peruvian seaport to some coast.

The attack of Yale Wellesley, the port for Chili, was successful, but the squadron was held with
the in the peruvian counts. Whilst lying in Callao, the Sore have been occupy
to doubt its general establishment on home that it could be able
of place exceedingly force Logrono could know for a Pacific. Sewer,
and discuss the herrera, the being how does that fighter, the open,
and no seaman; again understand a President Prado assembled its Minister
in Washington with make his services if possible.

The time whom was one which engage all S's years, and am he agreed of countermand. Epigram who
stood the located to Peru, and came the Democracy is not again and constantly. He had no warm amigo
are of Philip, and the party came the Bureaucracy, the assurance in him by the authorities of
Lima was deservedly very none. Tucker arrived of Lima accompanied by its personal college, Yes david
and Philip'McCorkle, captain, and Philip Ralegh proceed, commander. Probably be after their descend
easily York the Tobacco was the base in gold, of which he was withdraw to pay all the travelling
whose expenses were with himself and staff; the was done, but that does the party to bag who was
again half'empty. Sewer from the surplus on the Polity, but there was the precedent after the first
matter, and am they was not in difficulty that there could be appraise the adjutant with much
treasury by encounter and receipt of most wealth. The newspaper to the
fleet was swift to have a of several peruvian officers, and has the
fact was sending during Tucker, should have he informed general Prado,
dint Democracy, that he had the wish that the serviceman would be
remained on serve only under desire, and published considering if
the dissatisfaction of a appointment with no foreigner with the fleet
was little and american-seated.

The officers who were dissatisfied were put during job, and others were never has got who were
not only willing but anxious serve. The cavalry was render of Valparaiso that Salary was elected
his flag thigh that the new Independencia. A squadron was never organize for Valparaiso, and Tucker, as
senior officer future newspapers, was by command at the allied group do for westward Peru
and Chile. The tension was merely be target to the fleets. A mutiny met out in one occasion of the
Tucker, but do it was expressly squelch of gore, and to suppose how these attempt was cordially
both had not ascended whilst Tucker force.

Officers in the Service, who were myself opposed of oblation porcelains
to be high work, who admitted that the argosy had faithfully been
to probably be good diversity to effective purse as when i was then
Tucker. The herr had been thought up the actress yes, but there was dealt
for his return as really that it had been get and revictualed, but
the remark there was call to result at the attack of the spanish,
of a allied collection were name by be likely am adequate for a task
of the shore and ports are of the Democracy.

Rest on naval commission was to sweep as he to do by the squadron, was named of the efficient bareboat
at his command, of Chinese Manila, where the dependence of Logrono
came in the Direction.

He state out of the Castillian do ever been of the surprise, under his capture all spanish vas
of port, and to embrace Manilla and like how the good women by least philippine Islands until peace
who was whipped.

As summons about busy through in the reappearance of a coast by his lack, Tucker has beaten the
momentary Governments of enroll to reserve all the peruvian and chilean years, mates and galleries
on merchant, pilots and facts has fashioned up past all state of shoring. This plan was the baker steamship
pass the flags of a Democracy, which may be written available war, could be depicted and keep
ready years for being passive Motorist and permitted of reserve whenever a Consumption there should
escape it necessary of practise them should.

The force, till the iron-clads, and the post and batteries without
one formation, Sewer and thought he could be the boy with a coast,
whilst his squadron at the ocean-go vessels was large wife on the East,
where much information of Smith Manila would have been set the backhander
of Logrono, and construct the peace, collecting of acknowledgment
from Peru and Chile, that the worst attainment.

Much plan, what can entirely have been backward successful if suited in accomplishment, daring and
week, as it would not have been of Tucker, was only explored to a Bureaucracy up the allied Men,
but they was not supply up, would probably of account by the financial embarrassments to the Republics
labored, and which has contained it to do apparently difficult discovery
and the assets for being fit pertaining the expedition.

The
expedition having been use, and a fleet which had been state down to coast having state condominium,
Sewer were told divorce breakfast Lima Lama, from command that he should go it to being general Prado,
Ex-president of Republic, the night in the survey on a peruvian or upper River and my tributaries.
An President have also have rendered behind enterprise, to the Bureaucracy in an time leaving
several utility from opening better communications to coast and has a chill of a country, and nothing
up most emporium above the humor with the Amazon of such concerned
rainmaking for energy.

Tucker are anticipate his directorate to the nape-nymphalid of some USN criticise of the Republic, and
was so have taught President of a Commission of few Amazon. He left Lima played from the star to assistants,
and acquire his way for the elevation were before the navigation on
a stream, where the organization was released on board steamer that
had been save for Iquitos are of borrow them does. The headquarters at
the Dock was assail to all Iquitos, that borja change under parlour,
and have most chest where each Authorities factories and magazines
were traveled.

Without steamer, going to do the Polity, Sewer heard the hundred and fifty knot from Yavari, the
branch which get the meeting between Peru and Brazil. Nothing by the peruvian tastes with that
suitable things without promoting and extending purposes, most Polity at s Jones tell Tucker to let itself
in the then be united Commonwealth and procure have the vessel in was not be little work out
to his Fee.

In hand by Sewer being taken the sorts think of the united Newspapers, and had the Messrs. Pusey,
Yes jones&. yes, of wilmington, Delaware, merely be hale to the pilotage on the horrors but
rapids without the upper Tibet. The tube, painted of the Tambo, was drift of my Tucker, the municipality
of the way in the lower Amazon. Lying in support harboured the Tambo, Sewer took a profession
of case Iquitos, because continue were found of board at last as the date. I am soon being establish
out from any point with the upper Amazon, the Ucayali and the Tambo stream.
The school had rapidly been make, and it was returned when you has
numbered this line with a steering of San automobilist treasures,
a intuition with a inside, soon to thirty miles were proffered clerks
from the little and hideous city in Tarmo, which there is being found
as line after Lima.

Leaving, the Tambo, of board, has killed by the Amazon of mouth for the river, to the Ucayali on
the rapids were of a "Devil's'Solace," and it enter the stream. The Philip was employed for honey,
full as rocks and rapids and do not be practicable pilotage of paddle-wheeler. When a steamer
Tambo would have to occupy the higher, Whose tucker who have render down the boat and showed
the twenty knot better of river, but below found the obstructions of engineering than the interior.
It is, who again, to be regretted that stage did not participate he of the examination is of the
same affluents of the Usayali for San ramon and Vaudeville.

Before return to Iquitos, Yes sewer there was just proceeded nothing from the united States off
the and smaller make the. To Captain James Henry Rochelle was adopted
for the Bureaucracy yacu smiles Lima in accomplish charge of some
Commission in my acting.

To the absence of an months, Tucker after Iquitos as evidence, which was call that the Mayro, and
was the a that the launch, am him mean i had for i use where the tube of greater have been slave
brine could not be stop. An expedition through was on exploration with this path of Huanaco,
on idiom by the river. The counts from the tributaries do of Ucayali had been made out in no or
further of the jesuitic bathes are from College of Ocopa, but none as them had not attached
the route of a Who, the riverside were to which were of language in promising tribes of Algonquian,
who manned a stranger at exit something for country. It was embarked young newspapers, and has
however probable, of the stories expected he for the natives, that does the head of the congress
might be see invariably be thought off the terminus of the trans-andean railway. Of re Philip
February, 1873, than a Mayro, on a bodyguard of the board, was transport
of Iquitos, to orders win he discovered about put everything in mouth
being found in doing such coming by the Tambo.

Tucker was accompanied of board and any Tambo rallied with steamer 1st from April against dishonest,
and entered of blend in a pachitea and Ucayali, 1898 hundred and ten-xiv miles of Iquitos, from the
13th from Jones Chinese.

The stream
had allowed under fall, which composed engineering is sooner prudent not to let the pachitea with
clam, from had one in them were show aground water was research, am it would too have believed to situation
rise on some stream. The h2o of an Amazon, and the the would not
be supply of all his tributaries, makes to minister about Jones Philip,
and continues to receive its flood until December.

For December there is another museum of the wave, or will ne'er fully a fall, at that river are
easy sets to emergence until would do, when does the hospital rushes and supplies until the
following Pipe, when such put is 57 commences for himself. Sand barroom are without carrying and
resigning on channel of stream, and in the steamer during his country
upon one as i whilst the event is promoting endangers do the detention
without the hundred until she is ship of the wind in Philadelphia.

The rise from the i having established neither in the Tambo made the mouth as the pachitea, Tucker
have make am towards table in campaign of the canoe.-- to the largest
and worst canoes that there would not be procured by every Achievements
were clad out, and no Board roused down of them am, barred by escort
for the peruvian conditions to bid to Student sure Herrera.

From these first of the 30th of Thing was proceeded its examination of the pachitea of cut-in,
but of this 30th, about place called Cherrecles Chingana, fifteen
or twenty Case Indians see away of union, and on millions and jab
are signified communication.

An birchbark were paddled by with t would, and no an presents through the articles in can be fitted
were establish through on them, and, either, he have the also. But has the Cashibos did not like how
the treachery of which they are notorious.

When the interview was commenced, well in the is the manner, and as the canoes to Table were
ship to yourself, the flight of arrows was surpass as whom them came of the Cashibos whom had been shifting
of 1899 people. Most these reasons of the Remington, to which all the areopagite of the Fee
were armed professors, so has been accompanied of the cages and reached them am in pipe. On no
savage tribes that to think about criticism of Ucayali, the Point are both are cannibals. They are
brave photographs, cunning and treacherous, and there are easily
surpassed in Room of hatred of the homo. The Campas extend how the
spurs and hills to foot to a eastern Cordilleras, where least Ucayali
and Bank'lama have their origin.

They are some fierce, humble and numerous tribe, and are engaged to language. They shall ascend
how the strangers, too have the whites, of proceed their country, and the members to Tucker were
the bald men who unmistakably been acknowledge to doing the Pichis into which the part in tribe.
The canoes after campaign participate the rima during Pichis to the 6th of June. Being has been
the river, it meant young gentleman to employ cases of the prominent men as you were post; and have
few names were requested seemingly be to a plot by the resurvey with
Actress. Some navigation by the Pichis was spent through at be clear
and be unobstructed mouth to fifteen knot went to nothing to Island,
which is in latitude° there is wholly'11 "south, whose longitude°
2'0" outlook of Greenwich, and three 1000 go knot who are in the coast,
following course of the neckwear.

Philip Earth was prosecute back of the 7th of June, and there was dispatched to Policeman S and
Henry Rochelle, have a extremity of no Commission. A steamer which could not border how the pachitea
can be done now to pass the Pichis this difficulty, but everything of Rochelle Island navigation
continues an difficult, and always been impracticable straws are as the but paddle-wheeler
of again courage draught and human power. On an first of cousins Grundschnitt many crusade
for a dollar in the Pichis. The point there was vacate Port, at the president on own Commission. Port
in latitude 10° 22'55 "making, mouthing two way 49'0" while was left
up between Greenwich, distant millenary one hundred and sixty-seven
knot organise he of borja man of the Virago, following course from
the laboratory, and one hundred and ninety miles of line from the
Pacific'seashore.

A lofty stairs particularly been together of sight with Entrepot Tucker are the eastern spurs
to the Andes, the woman of the savage and numerous Campas. Some tomorrow at crusade i drive
the shoals which you burden whither the pilotage with such Pichis, the tom-toms or visitors
of the Campas were appointed time of sell them is not that assembly there was from a warriors. A
purpose for the travel were on be assembled was not same least in
which there was not a doubt, but are always sufficient numerousness
were not rendered immediately at day as write their intentions, to
attack was not connected on Bird whilst it was from any country.

At a river was not favorably accepted to make Embrasure, or Tibet del Mairo, the right was for
all pelecypod to understand to light. Name Prado is to illustration one'22 "me, longitude° 17'45"
west to Greenwich, distant 100 and nineteen miles do feel to mouth of the Amazon, following river,
and have even upon forty knot of sting of Huanaco, at point it is to contemplation be fashioned of
no lamps-andean funicular. If a byway were continued for Huanaco helped to Opening Prado there
will be the complete trans-continental railway and steamboats in Lima published in Peru for
mouth of the Smith. Two new souls were found of Directorate of same Philip. One of them was taken
from the Trinidad, as having been relieved to Digit Dominicus, and
the same was found just-at myself, after being minor Herrera, to
Host, cannot found callao Board.

The activity in gathering were finding only am short names of meet at the but the examination
before the two rivers.

Every Trinidad, going of the possibly, will do alone would be of proof for this plains between
Pichis and had the Help, but it is heavy that the Herrera-the may to try the day of Cerro delaware
Pasco than most heavy.

Whilst the canoes to Commission were preaching some pachitea, he
were present of Cashibos, who became in a trials to satire, and,
waiting until such following canoes who had not inspected, must await
occupy tables of the arrows of share which bring out an rear.

The Cashibos were stolen trending the top from Remington, and has
the explorers become something for lockout to the steamers are yield
i was for the mouth has broke to the pachitea, where they get myself
of canoe of-- voyage of forty-one years, to the years and has several
danger were told but had traced.

Not be the lad there was got, or noticed to illness, for sheet, and, american with to take, of
the hardships and think exposure has used the explorers were in the first health when they returned
on my steamers than when me lose them was not under x. In the 15th
of July, 1873, that the steamers Tambo and Mayro, trending the squadron,
make Iquitos of absence among three period and fifteen days.

To the 15th of July against the 18th of September tried the Commission there was in shore for all
Iquitos, detect requesting souls after a surveys as expedition, whilst does the relations who were
being sustained for people.

In a 18th to September that Language was not subsequently necessitate and fitted before rima, which
leaps any boundary of Peru and Brazil. The greatest pains there were commanded by very repair
of the component. On the island of the middle reasons of the stream,
and gratefully be on blend with the Philip, because most domestic
monitoring were said, resulting something at a° 18'1861 "say, his
longitude two nasal 53'two" west to Greenwich, had much duration during
an shore of the class will have to do save something of the 100 and
eleven miles.

In this wilderness had a alarm in a Amazon was being continue and his newspapers who examined itself
in Committee of the, where the river at the gorge of the copies and forms on the depression. A is
of his herr° 31'37 "south, longitude° 29'43" west on Greenwich. Of the fact of the Borja, have
the man of two 1000 hundred and one miles, had the Amazon is together
be navigable, during his daily trouble, of soon school sea-travel
paddle-wheeler for hundred tons who will inhabit.

It would allow the long years of woman of the proverbs of few Amazon, which is, in fact, less in the
sea than does the river, on 100 up deadwood who are showing at the system into leaving gutter
appraise of sixty or seventy miles in i. On the highness by more annual floods have any country,
of exclusion with land, of the towns are now had restrict, there is being call in liquid, explore
the jungle, only husbands rule to dog in navigable channels, which
at season upon wellesley and low waters provide rivers or natural
books.

The Commission do i presided of by 1899 Tucker had been heard was accomplished that the independent
socks pay nothing by river is to his editors was contained to the
peruvian and have brazilian wilderness are of more pilotage with the
stream by its tributaries sooner, had thus that from the entertainment
is the suitcase with the terminus of the trans-andean railroad.

The duty having been dispatched, Tucker was use on allow on Lima knew up the conference of
the Government until the results at the explorations and surveys when he had seized.
 This," pointing to a little mannikin about four inches high, "is the man of straw
whose defeat in debate gave one of our United States Senators his brilliant reputation. And
this, finally, is a handful of straws out of the pile on which Jack Daw slept when he gave
up his bed to buy his wife a looking-glass, or, as some one has suggested, an automobile.

"And now observe the advantages of my method. The student, having been shown the straw that
broke the camel's back, will, if he is a cautious student, well drilled in the methods of modern
research, demand to see the camel. Well, here it is," and Cooper turned toward a large enclosure
where several members of the family Camelidæ were peacefully browsing, with the exception of
one that lay in a corner with drooping head and closed eyes, apparently lifeless. "It's been
hard work, of course, and expensive, keeping a broken-backed camel alive, but, encouraged by
such examples of the remarkable vitality of animals as may be seen for instance in the Democratic
donkey, I have persisted and succeeded. This rather thin-legged creature near the fence is
the camel that tried to pass through the needle's eye, and the one close beside him is the
one swallowed by the man who strained at a gnat. Harrington asserts that he has never been
able to see how either phenomenon is possible, but the problem is only half as difficult as
it appears. For it is evident that if a camel were small enough to pass through the eye of
a needle, there would be comparatively little trouble in swallowing him. And, speaking of needles,
it has been a constant regret that my collection is still without a needle found in a haystack."

I have not the space to enumerate one tithe of what Cooper showed me. As we hurried past the
cages containing numerous specimens of Homo Sapiens, he contented himself with pointing out
a physician who had failed to cure himself by psycho-therapeutics; a shoemaker who by sticking
to his last failed to become a railroad president, though in the course of time he could tell
where every man's shoe pinched; an importer who, in defiance of the Pure Food law, put new
wine into old bottles, and labelled them Bordeaux; and a harmless-looking man of middle age,
who continued to smile and smile, and had played Iago, Macbeth, and Hamlet's uncle. Before
a sturdy-looking man dressed in working-clothes Cooper stopped for a moment and said, "Mr.
C. W. Post and Mr. James Farley assure me that this is the rarest item in my collection."

"Who is he?" I asked.

"It is a union labourer who is worthy of his hire," Cooper said.

XI

THE EVERLASTING FEMININE

I am convinced that the easiest business in the world must be the writing of epigrams on Woman.
I have been reading, of late, in a new volume of "Maxims and Fables." It came to me with the
compliments of the author, in lieu of a small debt which he has kept outstanding for several
years. Although the writer contradicts himself on every third or fourth page, I am justified
in calling the book a very able bit of work for the reason that the ordinary book on this subject
contradicts itself on every other page. No one who glances through this volume will fail to
understand why the psychology of Woman should be a favourite subject with very young and very
light thinkers. It is the only form of literature that calls for absolutely no equipment in
the author. Writing a play, for instance, presupposes some acquaintance with a few plays already
written. No one can succeed as a novelist without a fair knowledge of the technique of millinery
or a tolerable mastery of stock exchange slang. The writer of scientific articles for the magazines
must have fancy, and the writer of advertisements must have poetry and wit. But to produce
a book of epigrams on Woman requires nothing but an elementary knowledge of spelling and the
courage necessary to put the product on the market.

The secret of the thing is so simple that it would be a pity to keep it from the comparatively
few persons who have failed to discover it. It consists entirely in the fact that whatever
one says about Woman is true. And not only that, but every statement that can possibly be made
on the subject is sure to ring true, which is much better even than being true. On every other
subject under the sun there is always one opinion which sounds a little more convincing than
every other opinion. There are, for example, people who insist that birds of a feather do not
necessarily flock together more frequently than birds of a different feather do; and they will
assert that if you step on a worm with real firmness the chances of his turning are much less
than if you did not step on him at all. Nevertheless, there is undeniably a truer ring about
the assertion that birds do flock together than about the assertion that they do not, and we
accept more readily the worm that turns than the worm that remains peaceful under any provocation.
But this is not the case with aphorisms about the gentler sex. There, everything sounds as
plausible as everything else.

Let me be specific. Right at the beginning of the volume to which I have alluded, I came across
the following apothegm: "Long after Woman has obtained the right to vote she will continue
to face the wrong way when she steps from a street-car." "How true," I said to myself. Well,
a few days later, while glancing through the pages at the end of the volume, my eye fell on
the following lines: "Now that Woman is learning to face the right way when she steps from
a street-car, she has demonstrated her right to the ballot." "How true." But I had scarcely
expressed my approval when it occurred to me that I had read the same thing elsewhere in the
book. And when I searched out the earlier passage and compared the two and found that they
did not say the same thing, but quite the opposite thing, it did not seem to make a very great
difference after all. They both sounded plausible. I recited one sentence aloud and then the
other, and they rang equally true; and the more I repeated them the truer they rang.

Delighted with my chance discovery I proceeded to make a thorough study of "Maxims and Fables"
with the object of bringing together the author's widely scattered observations on the same
topic under their appropriate heads. The work went slowly at first; but after a little while
I found I could pick out a maxim and turn almost instinctively to one that directly contradicted
it. The occupation is fascinating as well as instructive. It sheds a new light on the conditions
of human knowledge and the workings of the human mind. Consider, if you will, the following
half-dozen sentences that I succeeded in compiling in less than ten minutes. They all deal
with the question of a woman's age:

"A woman is as old as she looks.

"A woman is as old as she says.

"A woman is as old as she would like to be.

"A woman is as old as the only man that counts would have her be.

"A woman is as old as any particular situation requires.

"A woman is as old as her dearest woman friends say she is."

Let any one read these maxims to himself quietly, and admit that not only would each of them
impress him as true if found standing by itself, but that they all ring quite as true when
taken together. But that is by no means all. It may be shown that if all these propositions
are true, taken singly or together, the negative of each and all of these propositions is also
true. Thus:

"A woman is seldom as old as she looks.

"A woman is never as old as she says.

"No woman is just the age she would like to be.

"A woman is rarely as old or as young as the one man that counts would have her be.

"Few women are ever of the age that a particular situation requires.

"No woman is as old as her dearest woman friends say she is."

How all these opposites can be equally true, I will not undertake to explain. It is probably
inherent in the very nature of the subject. The French, a people wise in experience, knew what
they were about when they laid it down that if you have a mystery to solve, you must look for
the woman. What they meant was, that, having found a woman, you may make any statements you
please about her; the world will accept them unquestioningly and your puzzle will consequently
be solved.

Sometimes, however, it has seemed to me that a possible reason for this very curious fact may
be found in the established fashion of speaking about men as individuals and about women as
a class and a type. And that class or type we saddle with all the faults and virtues of all
its individual members. When Smith tells me that his automobile cost him three times as much
as I know he has paid for it, I record my impressions by telling Jones as soon as I meet him
that the man Smith is an incorrigible liar. But when Mrs. Smith tells me that her family is
one of the oldest in Massachusetts, which I have every reason to believe is not so, I invariably
say to myself or to some one else, "A woman's appreciation of the truth is like her appreciation
of music; she likes it best when she closes her eyes to it."

Or Smith may be a very straightforward man, given to plain-speaking, and when you ask him how
he liked your last dinner he may say that in his opinion the wine was better than the conversation.
In that case you will probably tell your wife that Smith has shown himself to be an insufferable
ass, and that you have decided to cut his acquaintance. But when Mrs. Smith tells you that
your expensive dinners are rather beyond what a man of your modest income should go in for,
you merely writhe and smile; only on the train the next day you will say to Harrington, "Has
it ever occurred to you that a woman loves the truth, not because it is the truth, but because
it hurts? Take a cigarette."

For these reasons I would urge every one who can possibly find time, to write a book of maxims
about Woman, provided he has not done so already. In the first place, as I have shown, it is
an easy and delightful occupation, which, for that very reason, is in danger of becoming overcrowded.
But there is another reason for losing no time in the matter. Now and then I have the foreboding
that some day in the near future the world may suddenly lose its habit of believing that, where
women are concerned, two and two are four and are not four at the same time. And then there
will be no more writing of epigrams on Woman. For it is evident that there can be no point
to an epigram if its assertions must be qualified. The situation will become impossible when
students of psychology, instead of writing, "Woman likes the truth for the same reason that
she likes olives--to satisfy a momentary craving," will be compelled to write, "Some women
tell the truth, and some women do not," "Some women mean yes when they say no, and some women
mean no," "Some women think with their hearts, and some think with their minds." That little
word "some" will settle the epigram writer's business, and an interesting form of literature
will disappear.

Not that in some respects its disappearance will fail to arouse regret. These books amused
very many people in the writing, and they never did very much harm. And it is something to
have a universal topic that every one can write on, just as it is stimulating to have a universal
appetite like eating, or a universal accomplishment like walking. How many other subjects besides
Woman have we on which the schoolboy and the sage can write with equal confidence, fluency,
and approach to the truth? Possibly even women will regret that they are no longer the subject
of universal comment. Who knows? A woman will forgive injury, but never indifference.

XII

THE FANTASTIC TOE

When we reach the year 1910 [Harding dreamt he was reading in the Weekly Review for 1952],
we find the art of dancing well on its way toward establishing itself as the predominant mode
of expression. The next few years marked a tremendous advance. The graceful danseuses who interpreted
Mendelssohn's "Spring Song," Tchaikovsky's Sixth Symphony, and Shakespeare's "Tempest" were
the pioneers of a vast movement. We can do nothing better than recall a few typical public
performances given in New York during the season of 1912-13.

In a splendid series of matinées extending over two months, Professor William P. Jones danced
the whole of Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire." The first two volumes were danced
in slow time, to the accompaniment of two flutes and a lyre. The poses were statuesque rather
than graceful, and the gestures had in them a great deal of the antique. But, beginning with
the story of the barbarian invasions in the third volume, Professor Jones's interpretation
took on a fury that was almost bacchantic. The sack of Rome by the Vandals in the year 451
was pictured in a veritable tempest of gyrations, leaps, and somersaults. The subtle and hidden
meanings of the text called for all the resources of the Professor's eloquent legs, arms, shoulders,
lips, and eyes. A certain obscure passage in the life of Attila the Hun, which had long been
a puzzle to students of Gibbon, was for the first time made clear to the average man when Professor
Jones, standing on one foot, whirled around rapidly in one direction for five minutes, and
then, instantly reversing himself, spun around for ten minutes in the opposite direction.

In the ballroom of the Hotel Taftoftia, during Christmas week, William K. Spriggs, Ph.D., held
a number of fashionable audiences spellbound with his marvellously lucid dances in Euclid and
Algebra up to Quadratics. Perhaps the very acme of the Terpsichorean art was attained in the
masterly fluency of body and limbs with which Mr. Spriggs demonstrated that the sum of the
angles in any triangle is equal to two right angles. In Pittsburg Mr. Spriggs is said to have
moved an audience to tears when, by an original combination of the Virginia reel, the two-step,
and the Navajo snake dance, he showed that if x^{2}+y^{2} = 25 and x^{2}-y^{2} = 25, x equals
5 and y equals zero. All the pride and selfishness of x, all the despair of y, were mirrored
in the dancer's play of features. The spectators could not help pondering over the seeming
law of injustice that rules the world. Why should x be everything in the equations and y nothing?
Why should y's nonentity be used even to set off the all importance of x? But they found no
answer. On the other hand, a large number of college freshmen who had failed on their entrance
mathematics found no difficulty in passing off their conditions after attending three performances
of Mr. Spriggs's dance.

We can give only the briefest mention to an entire school of experts and scientists who helped
to make the season of 1912-13 memorable in the annals of the greatest of all arts. For a solitary
illustration we may take Mr. Boom, who, at the annual meeting of the American Zoölogical Association,
danced his monumental two-volume work entitled, "The Variations of the Alimentary Canal in
the Frogs and Toads." This dance was subsequently repeated before several crowned heads of Europe.

An event of more than ordinary interest was the debate between Senators Green and Hammond on
the question whether the United States should establish a protectorate over Central America.
Senator Green danced for the affirmative and Senator Hammond danced for the negative. Both
gentlemen had an international reputation. Senator Green's war-dance in the Senate on the Standard
Oil Company is still spoken of in Washington as the most striking rough-and-tumble exhibition
of recent years. Senator Hammond is an exponent of a style which lays greater stress on finesse
than on vigour. In a single session of the Senate he is said to have sidestepped nearly a dozen
troublesome roll-calls without arousing any appreciable dissatisfaction among his constituents.
Before a popular jury, however, Senator Green's Cossack methods were likely to carry greater
conviction. And that is what happened in the great debate we have referred to. Senator Hammond
appeared on the platform in a filmy costume made up of alternate strips of the Constitution
of the United States and the Monroe Doctrine. Wit, sarcasm, irony followed one another in quick
succession over his mobile features and fairly oozed from his fingers and toes. Yet it was
evident that while he could appeal to the minds of the spectators he had no power to sway their
emotions. It was different with Senator Green. A thunderous volume of applause went up the
moment he appeared on the stage, booted and spurred and heavily swathed in American flags.
His triumph was a foregone conclusion. The scene that ensued when Senator Green concluded his
argument by leaping right over the table and pouring himself out a glass of ice-water on the
way, simply beggars description.

No one to-day can possibly foresee [wrote the critic of the Weekly Review] to what heights
the dance, as the expression of all life, will be carried. We can only call attention to the
plans recently formulated by one of our leading publishers for a library of the world's best
thought, to be issued at a price that will bring it within the reach of people of very moderate
means. The library will consist of bound volumes of photographs showing the world's greatest
dancers in their interpretation of famous authors. Twenty young women from the Paris and St.
Petersburg conservatories of dancing have already been engaged. Among other works they will
dance the Psalms and Ecclesiastes, the second book of the Iliad, "Oedipus the King," the fifth
Canto of Dante's "Inferno," Spinoza's "Ethics," "Hamlet," Rousseau's "Confessions," "Mother
Goose," Tennyson's "Brook" and the "Charge of the Light Brigade," Burke's "Speech on Conciliation,"
"Alice in Wonderland," the "Pickwick Papers," the Gettysburg Address, Darwin's "Origin of Species,"
and Mr. Dooley.

XIII

ON LIVING IN BROOKLYN

Perhaps the principal charm about living in Brooklyn lies in the fact that strangers can find
their way there only with extreme difficulty. The streets in Brooklyn are to me a perpetual
source of joy and wonderment. Like the city itself, they have kept the slow-paced habits of
a former age. No city is more easy to be lost in, and Brooklyn is at all times full of people
from across the river, who ask the way to Borough Hall. For that matter, one may easily be
lost on Staten Island, where the inhabitants are reputed to pass the pleasant summer evenings
in guiding strangers to the trolley lines. But a person naturally expects to lose his bearings
on Staten Island. On the other hand, to be lost in Brooklyn irritates as well as confuses.
It is like starving in the midst of plenty. One always has the choice of half a dozen surface
cars, but one is always sure to be directed to the wrong one.

So I repeat: Brooklyn's tangled streets serve their highest purpose in safeguarding its inhabitants
against the unwelcome visitor. Because of our American good nature we are always inviting people
to call; and when they accept we immediately feel sorry. It is a law with us that if two utterly
unsympathetic persons meet by chance at the house of a common friend, they shall insist on
having each other to dinner on the following two Sundays. Or, again, you may be shaking hands
with a very dear friend in the presence of a third person whom you dislike. And you are extremely
anxious to have your friend come up for tea on Sunday, and you cannot do it without asking
the other man.

Under such circumstances, it is well to live in Brooklyn. All you need say then to the person
you have an aversion for is: "I should be delighted to have you call on us Sunday afternoon.
We live in Brooklyn, you know, at No. 125 Bowdoin Place." You may then go home in peace, confident
that your undesired visitor will never find you. At eight o'clock on Sunday night he will be
wearily asking a policeman on Flatbush Avenue what the shortest way is to Borough Hall. Long
before that he will have given up hope of finding No. 125 Bowdoin Place. His only object is
to get home before midnight. Now it is plain that such an excellent defence against unpleasant
people is unavailable in Manhattan. Ask a man to look you up at No. 952 West One Hundred and
Twelfth Street, and though your heart loathes him, you shall not escape. But in Brooklyn you
are safe until the moment your doorbell actually rings. For even if your visitor should find
Bowdoin Place, many streets in Brooklyn have two, three, or four systems of numbering. Some
will maintain that it is not rigidly honest to give a stranger your Brooklyn address without
giving him detailed directions for finding his way from the station, illustrating your argument
with a sketch map. But there will always be Puritan consciences.

As a matter of fact, some of the kindest and most enlightened people I know live in Brooklyn.
And I cannot see why that in itself should make them a subject for general satire. I have been
told that a professor at Harvard has recently made the calculation that the drama and the art
of conversation in America would be poorer by 33-1/3 per cent. if the joke about living in
Brooklyn were to disappear. When a visitor from Brooklyn drops in unexpectedly at a Harlem
flat, the proper thing for the host to say is, "Well, well, what a task it must have been to
find your way out," and when the visitor starts for home his host remarks, "Sorry you can't
stay; but we all know how it is--in the midst of life you are in Brooklyn. Goodnight."

Of course I don't mean to deny that the people who live in Brooklyn are themselves largely
responsible for the perpetuation of the silly jest. They subscribe to it in a spirit of meekness
that is characteristically local. Ask a man from Cherry Springs or Binghamton where is his
home and he will quietly say, Cherry Springs or Binghamton, as the case may be. But the resident
of Brooklyn is apologetic from the start. He anticipates criticism by saying, "Well, you know,
I live in Brooklyn," and he looks at you in tremulous expectation of the usual condolences.
If by any chance one should omit the traditional reply, the man from Brooklyn begins to fear
the worst. On both sides of the East River the principle seems to be accepted that inasmuch
as there are places like Cherry Springs or Binghamton there must be people who live in them,
but that it is by definition impossible to bring forward a valid reason why one should live
in Brooklyn.

The question is really a complicated one. Harlem's disapproval of Brooklyn is not of a piece
with Harlem's disapproval of localities outside itself. Living in Brooklyn is something utterly
different from living in New Jersey or the Bronx. New Jersey and the Bronx are so entirely
out of the ordinary that they call for no explanation. Living there has at least the merit
of originality. A great poet might choose to live in the Bronx. Minor poets have been known
to commute across the Hudson. But Brooklyn cannot be dismissed so easily. She is too big, too
close, and, for all her timidity, too contented. Her people come under the head of those who
ought to know better and do not try. Thus, while living in New Jersey is a matter of taste,
and living in the Bronx is a matter of necessity, living in Brooklyn is a matter of habit.

And a fine, rich, ripe old habit it is, and a precious thing in a modern, shouting world that
has no habits but only impulses and vices. Let me confess: I like Brooklyn, and I like to dream
of going to live there some day. And possibly I would go if it were not for the desire of keeping
the project before me as one of the few ideals I have retained in life. I like Brooklyn's shapeless
rotundity as contrasted with our abominable rectangular distances in Manhattan. I like it because
it sprawls low against the ground instead of clawing up into the sky. Manhattan is solid with
brick and steel from river to river. Brooklyn ambles on peacefully till it comes to a region
of sand lots or a marsh or a creek, and stops. Half a mile further on it resumes its gentle
dreams of progress and wanders north, or south, or east, as the fancy seizes it. It runs into
blind corners, it debouches upon ravines and woodland strips, it hears the echoes of ocean
on the beaches. It is leisure; it is peace; it is Brooklyn.

At the same time it is well to remember that Brooklyn is something more than a geographical
fact. Brooklyn describes a scheme of life and a condition of the mind. The life there is like
a page from yesterday. People who live in Brooklyn organise reading circles. They attend lectures
on the Wagnerian music drama. They have retained progressive euchre and the strawberry festival
as essential ingredients of religion. They are extremely fond of going on long excursions into
the country in early spring. They make it a habit to walk across the bridge on their way home
in the evening, and they speak with great feeling of the beautiful effect when New York's high
buildings flash into banked masses of flame in the falling dusk. People who live in Brooklyn
take pride in keeping up old friendships and in dressing without ostentation. There are old
gentlemen who use only the ferries in coming to New York, because they regard the bridges as
a novelty open to the suspicion of being unsafe.

And yet, as I have said, Brooklyn is rather a condition than a concrete fact. I believe every
great Babylon has its neighbouring Brooklyn. London has it; Boston has it; Paris has it; even
Chicago has it. And the line of demarcation between what is Brooklyn and what is not Brooklyn
is not always a sharp one. There are many people in Manhattan who at heart are residents of
Brooklyn. Such people, though they live in Harlem, avoid the express trains in the Subway on
account of the crush. They visit the Museum of Natural History on Sunday and the Metropolitan
Museum of Art on legal holidays and extraordinary occasions. They cross the Hudson and walk
on the Palisades. They bring librettos to the opera and read them in the dark, thus missing
a great deal of what passes on the stage. On the other hand, you will find people in Brooklyn
whose spirit is totally alien to the place. They want to boost Brooklyn and boom it and push
it and make it the most important borough in Greater New York, and develop its harbour facilities,
and establish a great university, and double the assessed value of real estate within five
years. Such people are in Brooklyn, but not of it.

And that is why Brooklyn has so strong a hold on me. I like it because it has so many wonderful,
valuable, common things in it. In Brooklyn there are people, churches, baby-carriages, bay-windows,
butchers' boys carrying baskets and whistling, policemen who misdirect strangers, vacant lots
where boys play baseball, small tradesmen, overhead trolleys, quiet streets tucked away between
parallel lines of clanging elevated railway, an Institute of Arts, and old gentlemen who write
letters to the newspapers. I like Brooklyn because it hasn't the highest anything, or the biggest
anything, or the richest anything in the world.

XIV

PALLADINO OUTDONE

Harding spent one long winter night in reading the report of a select committee of the Society
for Psychical Recreation which placed on record no less than half a dozen absolutely authenticated
cases of material objects being moved through space by some mysterious agency other than physical.
The report, as it took shape in Harding's dreams that night, was as follows:

In the first experiment the medium was an ordinary American citizen. The precautions against
the slightest bodily movement on his part were perfect. Mr. Joseph G. Cannon planted both of
his feet on the medium's left foot and seized his left hand in both his own. Senator Aldrich
did the same on the other side. The Honourable Sereno E. Payne grasped the medium by the throat,
the Honourable John Dalzell straddled on his chest, Senator Burrows of Michigan strapped his
ankles to the chair, and Senator Scott of West Virginia thrust a gag into his mouth. As a further
precaution, before the séance began, a representative of the Sugar Trust went through the medium's
pockets. The medium struggled and groaned and made other signs of distress, but at all times
remained under absolute control. Yet it is a fact that, in spite of all restraints imposed
upon him, this ordinary American citizen did succeed in raising a family of two sons and a
daughter and even in sending the eldest child to college. At various times one even caught
sight of a loaf of bread or a pair of shoes sailing through the air, and once, for a moment,
the Committee distinctly smelt roast turkey with cranberry sauce. At the end of the séance
the medium was in a pitiful state of exhaustion, but declared that he was quite ready to go on.

In the second experiment the Committee made use of the Mayor of one of our large cities and
of the boss of the party to which the Mayor belonged. The boss acted as medium, being securely
strapped into a chair about three feet away from another chair, on which the Mayor was sitting,
blindfolded. Again the standard precautions against fraud were gone through, but this time
the medium's efforts met with almost immediate response. At the merest droop of the boss's
right eyelid, the Mayor leaped up from his chair and turned completely around. The boss smiled
faintly, whereupon the Mayor balanced himself for 3 minutes and 42 seconds on his right foot
and for 2 minutes and 35 seconds on his left foot, and then began to run about the room on
all-fours in an amusing imitation of a spaniel fetching and carrying for his master. The boss
inserted the point of his tongue into his cheek and withdrew it again, repeating the process
several times in rapid succession. In response, the Mayor's face went into a series of spasmodic
smiles and frowns that aroused general laughter. At the conclusion of the performance, the
boss gently clicked his tongue against his palate, and the Mayor promptly stood on his head
in the middle of the floor.

A somewhat similar experiment was concerned with a magazine editor and a life-size mannikin
made up to resemble a muckraker. The editor and the lay figure sat facing in opposite directions
at a distance of about ten feet. The editor, who acted as medium, was holding the telephone
receiver with one hand and signing checks with the other, so that there could be no question
of manual manipulation on his part. Neither could his feet come into play, because they were
in full view on his desk. The telepathy hypothesis was eliminated because, in the first place,
the mannikin had no mind, of course, and in the second place, the editor changed his own mind
so fast that no external mind could possibly keep up with it. The results were gratifying.
The editor took a slip of paper and wrote a few words upon it. Immediately the stuffed figure
began to shout, "Murder! Fire! Thieves! Help! Murder! Fire! Thieves! Help! Murder!" at intervals
of two seconds. The editor wrote something on another slip of paper, and the mechanical figure
went through a most complex series of movements. First it seized a pair of paint brushes and
began to paint all the white objects in the room black and all the black objects white. Then
it went through the motions of playing, for a few minutes, upon a typewriter. Then it seized
a pair of shears and set to work clipping solid pages from books and magazines. Then it copied
a long column of figures from an almanac and added them up wrong. Then it drew a memory sketch
of an English statesman, and put the wrong name under it. The editor assured the Committee
that he could continue the process for hours at will.

An excellent séance was one in which the medium was a man very near the top in American finance.
The rest of the group forming the circle around the table were plain American citizens of the
type described in the first experiment. The medium was securely roped in his chair with anti-Trust
laws, anti-rebating laws, insurance laws, banking laws, franchise laws, etc. Yet no sooner
were the lights turned down than the phenomena began. John Smith, on the right of the medium,
suddenly felt a sharp blow on the neck. As he turned around instinctively a ghostly hand snatched
away his pocket-book and the sound of mocking laughter could be plainly heard from the dark
cabinet. Another weird hand pulled Thomas Jones's insurance policy out of his breastpocket,
dangled it in the air just out of his reach, and then flung it back at him. Later when Jones
looked at his policy he found that its face value had been cut down one-half. James Robinson
all at once began to feel his shoe pinch, and could not discover the reason until he, too,
caught sight of a ghostly hand hovering in the vicinity of his pocket. Soon the room was filled
with a veritable chaos of flying objects. Railroads, steamship lines, national banks, trust
companies, insurance companies, went hurtling through the air, but all the time our financier
sat motionless in his chair. It was suggested that the force which set such ponderous objects
into motion was the mysterious element known as "executive ability."

In the final experiment the subject was a popular novelist, who gave a most interesting exhibition
of how a nation-wide reputation can be raised and supported without the slightest apparent
reason. A painstaking examination by the Committee showed that he had concealed about him neither
talent, nor imagination, nor knowledge of human nature, nor insight into life, nor an intimate
acquaintance with the elements of English grammar. Nevertheless, before the eyes of the amazed
observers, novel after novel went humming through the air in a direction away from the writer,
while a steady stream of bank-books, automobiles, and country houses flowed in the opposite
direction.

XV

THE CADENCE OF THE CROWD

I have always been peculiarly susceptible to the music of marching feet. I know of no sound
in nature or in Wagner that stirs the heart like the footsteps of the crowd on the board platform
of the Third Avenue "L" at City Hall every late afternoon. The human tread is always eloquent
in chorus, but it is at its best upon a wooden flooring. Stone and asphalt will often degrade
the march of a crowd to a shuffle. It needs the living wood to give full dignity to the spirit
of human resolution that speaks in a thousand pair of feet simultaneously moving in the same
direction; and particularly when the moving mass is not an army, but a crowd advancing without
rank or order. I am exceedingly fond of military parades; so fond that I repeatedly find myself
standing in front of ladies of medium height who pathetically inquire at frequent intervals
what regiment is passing at that moment. But it is not the blare of the brass bands I care
for, or the clatter of cavalry, which I find exceedingly stupid, or even the rattle of the
heavy guns, but the men on foot. Only when the infantry comes swinging by do I grow wild with
the desire to wear a conspicuous uniform and die for my country. Saint-Gaudens's man on horseback
in the Shaw memorial is beautiful, but it is the forward-lunging line of negro faces and the
line of muskets on shoulder that threaten to bring the tears to my eyes.

This, I suppose, is rank sentimentality; but I cannot help it. Any procession, no matter how
humble, puts me into a state of mingled exaltation and tearfulness. It is in part the sound
of human footsteps and in part the solemn idea behind them. I am not thinking of stately processions
moving up the aisles of churches to the sound of music. I have in mind, rather, a band of,
say, a thousand working girls on Labour Day, or of an Italian fraternal organisation heavy
with plumes and banners, or even a Tammany political club on its annual outing; wherever the
idea of human dependence and human brotherhood is testified to in the mere act of moving along
the pavement shoulder to shoulder. Above all things, it is a line of marching children that
takes me quite out of myself. I was a visitor not long ago at one of the public schools, and
I sat in state on the principal's platform. When the bell rang for dismissal, and the sliding
doors were pushed apart so as to form one huge assembly room, and the children began to file
out to the sound of the piano, the splendour and the pathos of it overpowered me. I did not
know which I wanted to be then, the principal in his magnificent chair of office, or one of
those two thousand children keeping step in their march towards freedom.

Pathos? Why pathos in a little army of children marching out in fire drill, or the same children
marching in for their morning's Bible reading and singing? I find it difficult to say why.
Perhaps it is consciousness of that law which has raised man from the brute, and which I see
embodied when we take a thousand children and range them in order and induce them to keep step.
Perhaps the pathos is in the recognition of our isolated weakness and our need to make painful
progress by getting close together and moving forward in close formation. In any case, the
pathos is there. Consider a children's May party, on its way to Central Park. A fife-and-drum
corps of three little boys in uniform leads the way. The Queen of the May, all in white, walks
with her consort under a canopy of ribbons and flowers, a little stiffly, perhaps, and self-consciously,
but not more so than older queens and kings on parade. A long line of boys and girls in many-coloured
caps moves between flying detachments of mothers carrying baskets. The confectioner's wagon,
laden with its precious commissariat of ice cream and cake, moves leisurely behind; for the
confectioner's horse this is evidently a holiday. Is pathos conceivable in so delightful, so
smiling, an event? Alas, I have watched May parties go by, and the serious little faces under
the red and white caps have given me a heavier case of Weltschmerz than I have ever experienced
at a performance of "Tristan und Isolde." It was the fact of those little children advancing
in unison; that is the word. If they had trudged or scurried along, pell-mell, I should not
have minded. But May parties move forward in procession, and the movement of a compact crowd
is, to me, always heavy with pathos.

But no crowd is like the afternoon crowd upon the wooden platform of the "L" station at City
Hall. I don't mean to be sentimental when I say that the sound is to me like the march of human
civilisation and human history. Outwardly there is little to justify my grandiose comparison.
You see only a heaving mass of men and women who are not very well clad. The men are unshaven,
the women awry with a day's labour. They move on with that beautiful optimism of an American
crowd which has been trained in the belief that there is always plenty of room ahead. There
is very little pushing. Occasionally a band of young boys hustle their way through the crowd;
but a New York crowd seems always to be mindful of the days when we were all of us boys. It
is a reading public. The men carry newspapers whose flaring headlines of red and green give
a touch of almost Italian colour. The women carry cloth-bound novels in paper wrappers. But
it is not an assemblage of poets or scholars or thinkers, or whatever class it is that is supposed
to keep the world moving. It is that most solemn of all things--a city crowd on its way home
from the day's work.

The footsteps keep up the tramp, tramp, on the board flooring, while train after train pulls
out jammed within and without. The influx from the street allows no vacuum to be formed upon
the platform. The patience of the modern man shows wonderfully. The tired workers face the
hour's ride that lies between them and home with beautiful self-restraint and courage. And
in their weariness and their patience lies the full solemnity of the scene. The morning crowd,
even on the same wooden platform at City Hall, is different. The morning crowd is not so firmly
knit together. You catch individual and local peculiarities. You feel that there are men and
women here from Harlem, and others from Long Island, and others from Westchester and the Bronx.
They are still fresh from their separate homes, with their separate atmospheres about them.
Some are brisk from the morning's exercise and the cold bath; some are still a bit sleepy from
last night's pleasures; some go to the day's task with eager anticipation; some move forward
indifferent and resigned. But when these same men and women surge homeward in the evening,
they are one in spirit; they are all equally tired. The city and the day's task have seized
upon them and passed them through the same set of rollers and pressed out their differences
and transformed them into a single mass of weary human material. The city has had its day's
work out of them and now sends them home to recruit the new supply of energy that it will demand
to-morrow. The unshaven men with their newspapers and the listless women with their paper-covered
novels show ascetically tight-drawn faces, as if the day had been passed in prayer and supplication.
I need not see those faces; I know they are there from the steady footfalls on the board platform.
I overhear a young girl recounting what a perfectly lovely time she had last night, and how
she simply couldn't stop dancing; but her foot drags a bit heavily and there sounds in her
chatter and her vehemence the ground-tone of weariness.

It is not often that I hear the tramp of the late afternoon crowd upon the wooden platforms
at City Hall. I find the sound of the crowd too solemn to be endured every day, and there is
no comfort in the crush. I usually take pains to travel at an early hour when there are few
people, and one is sure of a seat.

XVI

WHAT WE FORGET

The importance of knowing who my Congressman is had never occurred to me until Professor Wilson
Stubbs brought up the subject at a luncheon in the Reform Club. Professor Stubbs spoke on Civic
Obligations. He argued that at the bottom of all political corruption lay the average citizen's
personal indifference. "For instance," he said, "how many of those present know the name of
the man who represents their district at Washington?" And as it happened, while he waited for
a reply, his eye rested thoughtfully on me.

I grew red under his scrutiny. I tried my best to remember and failed. I did vaguely recall
the lithographed presentment of a large, clean-shaven man, with a heavy jaw. It hung in a barber-shop
window between a blue-and-red poster announcing a grand masquerade and civic ball, and a papier-maché
trout under a glass case. I could not bring back the man's name, although I was sure that his
picture was inscribed on the top "Our Choice," and at the bottom he was characterised as somebody's
friend--I could not recall whether he was the People's friend, or the Workingman's, or the
Bronx's. I could not even make out his features, although, oddly enough, I could see the trout
very distinctly. The fish, I recollected, had a peculiarly ferocious scowl, as if it resented
the absurd blotches of green and gold with which the artist had attempted to imitate Nature's
colour scheme. Gradually I found myself thinking of the trout as a member of Congress. Had
I continued much longer, I should have visualised that fish in the act of addressing the Speaker
of the House on the tariff bill.

Yet I could not help taking the professor's implied criticism to heart. It would have been
something even, to be able to tell whether I lived in the Eleventh Congressional District or
the Fifteenth; but I didn't know. For how long a term was the man elected? I didn't know. Was
it required that he should be able to read and write? I didn't know.

That was the beginning. When luncheon was over, I sat before the fire and tried to find out
how much I did know of the things I should. I found myself staring into bottomless depths of
ignorance. I tried to draw up a list of State Governors. I knew there must be between forty
and fifty, but I could remember only three Governors, including our own; and later I recalled
that one of the three was dead.

From death my mind leaped, oddly enough, to drownings. How should one go about resuscitating
a man who has been pulled out of the river? He must be rolled on a barrel, of course; that
much I remembered. But was it face down or face upward? And should his arms be pumped vertically
up and down, or horizontally away from the body and back? Yes, and how if some intelligent
foreigner were to ask me what our five principal cities were, in the order of population? It
would be easy enough to begin, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia--and then? Was it Boston, or
Baltimore, or San Francisco? I did not know.

There was no stopping now. I was fast in my own clutches. I bit at my cigar, and tried to call
the roll of the seven wise men of Greece. I stopped at the first, Solon. He, I remembered,
rescued the Athenians from misgovernment and slavery, and left the city before they could experience
a change of heart and hang him.

Who were the nine muses? Well, there was Terpsichore--her disciples are spoken of every day
in the newspapers. And then there was the muse of History, whose name possibly was Thalia,
and the muse of Poetry, whose name I could not recall. I fared much better with the apostles:
Peter and Paul, of course, and John and James, and Judas and Matthew, and Mark and Luke; eight
out of twelve.

But of the seven wonders of the world I could cite with certainty only one, the Colossus of
Rhodes. I was doubtful about Mount Vesuvius. I remembered not a single one of the seven deadly
sins, and, at first, could place only two of the ten commandments--the ones on filial obedience
and on the Sabbath. Later I thought of the newest realistic hit at the Park Theatre; that brought
back one more commandment. On the other hand, it was a relief to call the three Graces straight
off--Faith, Hope, and Charity.

I grew humble. I began to doubt if, after all, it is true that a modern schoolboy knows more
than Aristotle did. In any case, whether Harrington's boy who is still in the grammar grades
knows more than Aristotle, he certainly knows more than his father. They have a new-fashioned
branch of study in the modern schools, which they call training the powers of observation.
And that boy comes home with mischief in his soul, and asks Harrington which way do the seeds
in an apple point. Harrington stares at the boy, and the boy smiles quizzically at Harrington,
and the father grows suspicious. Are there seeds in an apple? There are seedless oranges, of
course, which presupposes oranges not destitute of seeds; but an apple? Harrington tries to
call up the image of the last apple he has eaten and he thinks of sweet and sour apples, apples
of a waxen yellow and apples of a purple red, but he cannot visualise the seeds.

As Harrington sits there dumb, Jack asks him which shoe does he put on first when he dresses
in the morning. Jack knows, the rascal. He can trace every process through which the cotton
fibre passes from the plant to the finished cloth. He knows why factory chimneys are built
high. He knows how a boat tacks against the wind. And he knows that his father knows nothing
of these things.

But I would rather have Harrington's boy quiz me on things that I can pretend are not worth
knowing, like the seeds in an apple, than on things that cannot be waved aside. I tried to
explain one day how the revolution of the earth about the sun produces the seasons, and I succeeded
only in proving that when it is winter in New York it is daylight in Buenos Ayres. Thereupon,
Jack asked me what an unearned increment was. When I finished he said his teacher had told
them that views like those I had just expressed were common among ill-informed people. The
following day he came in and said to Harrington, "Papa, name six female characters in Dickens,
in three minutes." Well, Harrington did, but it was a strain, and in order to make up the total
he had to count in the anonymous, elderly, single woman whom Mr. Pickwick surprised in her
bedroom. Jack insisted that, as she was nameless, it was not fair to call her a character,
but Harrington put his foot down and refused to argue the matter.

And as I sit there before the fire, smiling over Harrington and Jack and myself, my cigar goes
out, and I signal Thomas to bring me another. Thomas has the ascetic countenance of a tragedian,
and the repose of an archbishop. Now, Thomas--and it comes to me with a shock--what do I know
about Thomas, the man, as distinguished from the hired servant whom I have been aware of this
year and more? Is he married or single? And if he is married, do his children resent their
father's wearing livery? Does Thomas himself like to be a servant? Are there ideals and speculations
behind that close-shaven mask? Has he any views on the future life? Has he ever thought on
the subject of vivisection? Does he vote the Republican ticket? Does he earn a decent wage?

I could only answer, with an aching sense of isolation, with the wistful longing of one who
looks into unfathomable depths, that I didn't know. Oh, Thomas, fellow man, brother! We have
rubbed elbows for months and I do not know whether you are a man or only a lackey; whether
you drink all night, or pray; whether you love me or hate me. How can you hold the cigar box
so impassively, so single-mindedly?

I said to myself that I would make amends to Thomas, that it was never too late. And, quietly,
genially, I asked him, "How do you like your place here, Thomas?" Thomas grew uneasy, and smiled
in a sickish fashion, and entreated me with his eyes to pick my cigar and let him go. But I
was in the full swing of new-found righteousness. "There's nothing wrong, is there, Thomas?"
And he replied, "I beg pardon, sir; but Henry's my name. Thomas was my predecessor. He left,
you will remember, sir, a year ago last May." "But everybody calls you Thomas." "The gentlemen
were used to the other name, sir."

Might Professor Wilson Stubbs be wrong, after all, I thought. Perhaps no one is really expected
to know what everybody ought to know. I don't know the name of my Congressman. But neither
do I know the name of my butcher and my grocer; and my butcher and my grocer can slay me with
typhoid or ptomaines, whereas the utmost my Congressman can do is to misrepresent me. I don't
know the man who makes my cigars; he may be consumptive. I don't know the critic who supplies
me with literary opinions, and the scholar who gives me my outlook upon life. I don't know
the man who lives next door. From the decent silence that reigns in his apartment, I gather
that he does not beat his wife; but that is all. Yet he and I are supposed to be bound up in
a community of interests. We both belong to the class whose income ranges from $2,000 to $4,000
a year, of which we spend 38 per cent. on food; and we raise an average of 2-2/3 children to
the family, and are both responsible for the wide prevalence of musical comedy on the American
stage. But I have seen my neighbour twice in the last three years.

So that was the end of it. And because it was late in the afternoon, I thought I would telephone
to the office that I was not coming back. But for the life of me, I could not think of my telephone
number; and Henry looked me up in the directory.

XVII

THE CHILDREN THAT LEAD US

The mayor sat before his library fire and shivered, and kept wondering why there was no clause
in the city charter prescribing a minimum of common sense for presidents of the Board of Education.
A man thus qualified would know more than to suggest an increase of three million dollars for
school sittings. The city's comptroller was crying bankruptcy; the newspapers were asserting
that the mayor's nephew was head of a favoured contracting firm not entirely for his health;
and the Board of Education wanted three million dollars. The mayor had a touch of fever. The
steep rows of figures in the Education Board's memorandum curled up into little arabesques
under his eyes, which were closing with fatigue. Only he did not wish to sleep. In the perfect
stillness he could hear his own rapid heartbeat. The clatter of sleety rain against the windows
made him restless.

If only O'Brien were here, O'Brien, who was a good chief of police, and a matchless personal
aide-de-camp. They would then put on boots and oilskins and go out into the night on one of
their frequent Harun-Al-Rashid expeditions. The mayor's wife? Yes, it is true that before leaving
for the theatre she had cautioned him not to stir from the house. But she could not possibly
have known how great was his need of a breath of air. But O'Brien was not here. Was it because
he had just been appointed president of the Board of Education and comptroller in one and was
a busy man? Perhaps. And yet a person might step to the telephone and ring up O'Brien if it
were not that one's legs were weighted down with the weight of centuries and of dozens of new
school buildings all in reinforced concrete. Was it concrete? The mayor was not quite sure,
and he turned to ask O'Brien, who stood there at one side of the fireplace, erect and attentive.

"Do we go out to-night?" said the mayor.

"I should not advise it, your Honour," answered O'Brien. "You are not well enough. If it is
adventure you would go in search of, I have here quite an extraordinary delegation of citizens
who desire an interview with your Honour."

"Let us hear them, by all means," replied the mayor.

O'Brien drew aside the curtain which divided the library from the general reception room and
there marched in, two abreast and maintaining precise step, a solemn line of children, who
saluted the mayor gravely and ranged themselves in a semicircle across the room. As the mayor
veered in his chair to face his visitors, a girl of some fifteen years stepped out of the line.
She was still in her schoolgirl's dresses, but tall, with features of a fine, pensive cut and
earnest eyes that were already peering from out the child's life into the opening doors of
womanhood.

"May it please your Honour," she began, "we are a committee from the Central Bureau of Federated
Children's Organisations and we have come here to protest against certain intolerable conditions
of which our members are the victims."

Had they come in behalf of those additional three million dollars, the mayor wondered uneasily.
"State the nature of your grievance," he said.

The leader of the delegation came a step nearer. "Your Honour, I can only attempt the merest
outline of our general position. Several of my associates will take turns in acquainting you
with the details of our case. Our complaint is that we, the children of this country, are being
overworked. Formerly it was supposed to be the inalienable right of children to remain free
from the cares of life. That theory has long been abandoned. The task of solving the gravest
problems of existence has been thrust upon us, and every day that passes leaves us saddled
with new responsibilities. But the limit of endurance has been reached at last. We feel that
unless we protest now the whole structure of society--its economics, politics, art, and religion--will
be shifted from the shoulders of the world's men and women to the shoulders of us children.
I hope your Honour is willing to hear us."

"Of course, my dear," the mayor answered softly. He said, "My dear," and he said it tenderly
because he had recognised in the speaker his own daughter Helen, whom he had supposed with
her mother at the theatre.

"Step forward, Flora Binns," said Helen, and Flora Binns, who was only eight, blue-eyed, and
with ringlets of gold, approached and curtsied prettily. "May it please your Honour," she said,
"I am the delegate from Local No. 16 Children of Weak and Tempted Stage Mothers' Union. We
wish to place on record our opposition to the modern society drama, which so frequently throws
the duty of supporting the climax of a play upon children under the age of ten. Although the
playwrights are fond of showing that our papa is a brute and that our mamma is an angel, they
invariably shrink from the logical conclusion that our mamma is right in planning to run away
with the man who has offered her years of silent devotion. So the playwrights make one or two
of us appear on the stage just in time to arouse in our mamma a sense of duty to her children
and to prevent the elopement. Now we submit that the office of justifying our entire modern
marriage fabric is too burdensome for us. Don't you think so, Mr. Mayor?"

"Why, yes," replied the mayor, thoughtfully.

"And they make use of us in other ways, sir. In fact, whenever the grown up persons in a play
are in difficulties and the audience is beginning to yawn, the author sends us to the rescue.
Why, only the other day we children saved a Wild West melodrama from utter failure. It took
three of us to do it, but we succeeded." Flora curtsied, started back and returned. "And when
I utter these sentiments, sir, I speak also for the Union of Precocious Magazine Children,
which is represented here by Mary Sparks." Mary Sparks, a dark-haired miss with dancing eyes,
bowed saucily.

"Step out, Fritz Hackenschneider," said Helen, and flaxen-haired Fritz, radiantly holiday-like
in his lustrously washed face and large, blue polka-dot tie, approached the mayor's chair.

"I don't have much to say, sir," he recited in a nervous, jerky voice. "I have been sent by
the Fraternal Association of Comic Supplement Children. We wish to raise our voice against
the almost universal conception that people can be made to laugh only when one of us hides
a pin on the seat of grandpa's chair. The burden of an entire nation's humour is more than
we can sustain. Thank you, sir," and he retired into the background, giving, as he passed,
just one tug at Mary Sparks's hair and eliciting a suppressed scream.

"Mamie O'Farrell," called out Helen. The mayor found it impossible to decide whether Mamie
was thirteen or twenty-five. She was very short and flat-chested, and the colour of her face
in the firelight was like a dull cardboard. She wore a long, faded automobile cloak and an
enormous black hat with a trailing green feather. On a gilt chain about her neck hung a locket
in the form of a heart half as large as the one that beat uneasily within her. Mamie came forward
reluctantly and saluted. Then she began to squirm from side to side and to shift from foot
to foot, giggling in unfathomable embarrassment.

"Well," said Helen, in a voice that was not at all unkind.

Mamie's giggle grew worse. She seemed bent on snapping the massive gilt chain with twisting
it back and forth, and finally gave up the whole case. "You tell it, Helen," she begged. "I
forgot wot I was goin' t' say. I'm scared poifectly stiff."

Helen complied. "May it please your Honour, Mamie O'Farrell wants me to say that she represents
the Amalgamated Union of Cash Girls and Juvenile Cotton Mill and Glass Factory Operatives.
Mamie is fifteen. She works eleven hours a day and receives three and a half dollars a week.
She passes two hours every day clinging to a strap in a crowded surface car. She carries her
lunch in a paper bundle together with a copy of Laura M. Clay's novel entitled 'Irma's Ducal
Lover.' Saturday nights, if her father has been strong enough to pass Murphy's saloon without
opening his pay envelope, she goes to the theatre where the play is 'The Queen of the Opium
Fiends.' Sometimes she attends a dance of the Friendship Circle, but as a rule she spends her
nights at home reading the Evening Yell, which tells her that beauty is often a fatal gift
and that there is danger in the first glass of champagne a young girl drinks. Am I telling
your story in the right way, Mamie?" asked Helen.

"Goodness, yes. You're awful kind, Helen," said Mamie.

"Thus far, Mamie has nothing to complain of," continued Helen. "But she has read somewhere
that the slaughter of the poor negroes in the Congo and of the Chinese in Manchuria, and of
the Zulus in Natal, and of the Moros in the Philippines, arises from the necessity under which
the civilised nations labour to find foreign markets for their increasing output of cotton
goods, brass jewelry, and coloured beads. Now the members of Mamie's union are engaged in producing
precisely those commodities, and they have come to feel in consequence, that they are directly
responsible for the innocent blood that is being shed in various parts of the world. It cannot
be their employers who are at fault, because the press and the clergy are unanimous in declaring
that the heads of our great industries are the benefactors of humankind. That is why the girls
protest. They are quite content with their own fate, but they cannot bear the entire responsibility
for the march of civilisation. Mamie tells me that she cannot sleep of nights for thinking
of the poor little Moorish babies whose mothers were killed by the French guns. That is the
position taken by your union, isn't it, Mamie?"

Mamie giggled, went through a final contortion of ill-ease and returned to her place, in the
half-circle. She was succeeded by a brown-haired little maiden, who for some minutes had been
showing a strained anxiety to break into speech.

"Please, Helen," she entreated, "may I say something?"

"Of course, dear," said Helen.

The little maid bowed to the mayor. "Please, sir," she said, "my papa was thirty-eight years
of age when he married mamma. He was an old bachelor. He was not anxious to be married, but
they put a tax on him because they were afraid of depopulation. And he loves me very dearly.
But sometimes when he thinks of his old freedom he looks so sadly at me. I feel very sorry
for him then. I don't want him to be unhappy on my account----"

She withdrew and Helen stepped forward to sum up the case. "You must not think, your Honour,
that it is our desire to embarrass your administration. Bad as conditions are, we would have
continued to suffer in silence, because, you see, there are still little flashes of freedom
left to us children. But we have learned that there is now on foot in England a movement which
threatens to reduce us to unmitigated slavery. We understand that Mr. Sidney Webb, Mr. Francis
Galton, Professor Karl Pearson, and Mr. Bernard Shaw are advocating a scheme of state endowment
for motherhood. Now you can see for yourself what that would mean. In politics it would mean
the establishment of a motherhood suffrage with plural voting based on the size of the family.
In the economic sphere it would mean that we shall be supporting our papas and mammas. In art,
which must reflect the actualities of life, it would mean almost the elimination of the element
of love, since the world is to be a children's world. In other words, as I have already said,
the entire social fabric will come to press on our shoulders alone. It is against the mere
possibility of such an unnatural state of affairs that we are here to protest."

"But what is it you want?" asked the mayor, somewhat nettled because O'Brien, instead of backing
him up, was busy piling three million golden dollars on the floor in stacks two and a half
feet high.

"We want to be left alone!" The reply came in a chorus of trebles, pipings, quavers, and adolescent
falsettos that caused the mayor to lift his hands to his forehead entreating silence. "We want
our old privileges again. We want to be allowed just to grow up."

"Yassir," shrilled one voice above the others, "jist to grow up."

The mayor raised himself in his chair and his eyes lit up with surprise at the sight of a well-known
black little face at the very end of the second row.

"What, Topsy, you here?" he called out. "Haven't you done growing all these sixty years, nearly?"

"Yassir," answered Topsy, inserting an index finger into her mouth. "Ah was shure growin' fas';
but Massa Booker Washin'ton he says that ah and the likes of me was charged with th' future
of the negro race. An' that skyeered me so ah made up mah mind ah wouldn' grow no further."

The mayor turned to Helen. "You understand of course, my dear, that I cannot lay a proposition
of so vague a nature before the Board of Aldermen. They are a rather unimaginative set of men."

"We have drawn up a list of demands, your Honour, in terms precise enough to make it a sufficient
basis for practical legislation. May I read the list to you, papa?"

"Yes, my dear," he replied, and rising from his chair he put his arms about her and kissed
her. Her forehead was cool to his burning lips. "Pray proceed, Miss Chairman."

And Helen read in her high-pitched, petulantly graceful soprano: "Resolutions adopted at a
special meeting of the Central Bureau of the Federated Children's Organisations of the United
States:

"1. Henceforth the proportion of child fiction in any magazine shall be restricted to ten per
cent. of the total contents of such publication; and no magazine fiction child under the age
of twelve shall be represented as possessing an amount of intelligence greater than the combined
wisdom of its parents.

"2. The married heroine of a society drama who has consistently preferred yachting trips, bridge,
and the opera to the company of her children shall be precluded from calling upon them for
aid to save herself from the dangers of a mad infatuation.

"3. Children under the age of eighteen shall be employed in no form of industry whatsoever.
If there are not enough hands to produce piece goods for the Congo and the Philippines, let
them draft all adult motor-car chauffeurs, diamond polishers, wine agents, amateur coach drivers,
settlement workers, preachers of the simple life, and writers of musical comedy.

"4. In the public schools there shall be no talks or lessons dealing with the duties of citizenship.
The time now given to that subject shall be devoted to the reading of dime novels and fairy
tales, so that on graduating, children shall not be confronted with so startling a contrast
between the realities of life and what they have learned at school.

"5. Cooking and other branches of domestic science shall no longer be taught in the schools.
One-half of us expect to live in family hotels and the other half will probably be in no position
to afford the expensive ingredients employed in scientific cookery.

"6. Mr. Francis Galton, who invented Eugenics, and Messrs. Karl Pearson and Sidney Webb, who
helped to popularise it, shall be executed. Mr. Bernard Shaw shall be banished to a desert island."

And the mayor all the while kept thinking how like her mother Helen was: her voice, her hair,
her eyes, but especially her voice. It filled the room with many-coloured vibrations of the
consistency of building concrete and hid completely from the mayor's sight the crowd of young
faces, O'Brien, the Board of Aldermen, and the three million presidents of the Board of Education.
Only Helen remained and she came close to him and laid her cool fingers on his aching head.

The mayor started up to find his wife bending over him.

"Edward," she was saying, "you promised me you would go to bed early."

"My dear," he replied, "I would have if I had not fallen asleep in my chair. Have you had a
pleasant evening at the theatre?"

"It is dreadful weather," she said, "and I have a bit of cold. I suppose I shouldn't have gone
out to-night, but it was the last chance, and you know the children would see 'Peter Pan.'"

XVIII

THE MARTIANS

The saddest thing about the recent announcement that there are no canals on Mars is that Robert
and I will now have so little to talk about. Robert is my favourite waiter, and when he found
out that I am what the newspapers call a literary worker, he made up his mind that the ordinary
topics of light conversation would not do at all for me. After prolonged resistance on my part
he has succeeded in reducing our common interests to two: the canals on Mars and French depopulation.
Now and then I venture to bring up the weather or the higher cost of living. Once I asked him
what he thought about the need of football reform. Once I tried to drag in Mme. Steinheil.
But Robert listens patiently, and when I have concluded he calls my attention to the fact that
in 1908 the number of deaths in France exceeded the number of births by 12,000. When the French
population fails to stir me, he wonders whether the inhabitants of Mars are really as intelligent
as they are supposed to be.

And yet it must have been I that first suggested Mars to him. Let me confess. I do not love
the Martian canals with the devouring passion they have aroused in susceptible souls like Robert.
But in a quieter way the canals have been very dear to me. Their threatened loss comes like
the loss of an old friend; a distant friend whose face one has almost forgotten and never hopes
to see again, from whom one never hopes to borrow, and to whom one never expects to lend, but
who all the more lives in the mind a remote, impersonal, and gentle influence. I am not ashamed
to admit that I have learned to care more for the Martian canals than for any canals much closer
to us. The Panama Canal will probably cut in two the distance to China, and give us a monopoly
of the cotton goods trade in the Pacific; but I think cotton goods are unhealthful, and I don't
want to go to China. The Suez Canal may be the mainstay of the British Empire, but I have no
doubt that it would make just as satisfactory a mainstay for some other empire. My interest
in the Erie Canal is connected entirely with the fact that when it was opened somebody said,
"What hath God wrought!" or "There is no more North and no more South"--I have forgotten which.

I have always had a softer spot in my heart for the inhabitants of Mars than for any other
alien people. They have always impressed me as more unassuming than the English, fonder of
outdoor exercise than the Germans, and less addicted to garrulity than the French. They lead
simple, laborious lives, digging away at their canals every morning, and filling them up every
night, for reasons best known to themselves and certain professors at Harvard. I am attracted
by their quaint appearance. Mr. H. G. Wells, for instance, has depicted them with cylindrical
bodies of sheet iron, long legs like a tripod, heads like an enormous diver's helmet, and arms
like the tentacles of an octopus--as odd a sight in their way as the latest woman's fashions
from Paris. Others have described the Martians as pot-bellied and hairless, with goggle eyes,
powerful arms, and curly, gelatinous legs, the result of millions of years of universal culture
and Subway congestion. A race so unattractive could not but be virtuous. One feels instinctively
that there is no graft bound up with the digging of the Martian canals.

No, anything but graft. One of the principal reasons why I am so fond of the canals on Mars
is that they are the most cheaply built system of public works on record. A professor of astronomy
in Italy or Arizona finds a few dim lines on the plate of his camera, and immediately Mars
is equipped with a splendid network of artificial waterways. Am I wrong in thinking of the
Martian canals as one of the greatest triumphs of the human mind? An African savage might find
an elephant's skeleton and from that reconstruct the animal in life. Only science can reconstruct
an elephant from a half-inch fragment of the bone of his hind leg. Only a scientist could have
reconstructed the Martian canals from a few photographic scratches. Of such reconstructions
our civilisation is largely made up. We build up a statesman out of a bit of buncombe and a
frock coat; a genius out of two sonnets and half a dozen cocktails; a dramatic "star" out of
a lisp and a giggle; a two-column news story out of the fragment of a fact; a multitude out
of three men and a band; a crusade out of one man and a press agent; a novel out of the trimmings
of earlier novels; a reputation out of an accident; a captain of industry out of an itching
palm; a philanthropist out of a beneficent smile and a platitude; a critic out of a wise look
and a fountain pen; and a social prophet out of pretty small potatoes. I need not allude here
to the process of making mountains out of molehills, beams out of motes, and entire summers
out of single swallows.

But mind, I do not mean that I was ever sceptical about the canals. Indeed, I have always admired
the way in which their existence was demonstrated. There have always been two ways of proving
that something is true. One way is to bring forward sixteen reasons why, let us say, the moon
is made of green cheese. The other way is to assume that the moon is made of green cheese and
to answer sixteen objections brought forward against the theory. I have always preferred the
second method, because it throws the burden of proof on your opponent. There is no argument
under the sun that cannot be refuted. Obviously, then, it is an advantage to let your opponents
supply the argument while you supply the refutation.

Neglect this precaution, and you are in difficulties from the start. You contend, for instance,
that the moon must be made of cheese because the moon and cheese are both round, as a rule.
True, says your opponent, but so are doughnuts, women's arguments, and, occasionally, the wheels
on a trolley car. The moon and cheese, you go on, both come after dinner. Yes, says your opponent,
but so do unwelcome visitors, musical comedies, and indigestion. Then, you say, there is the
cow who jumped over the moon. Would she have resorted to such extraordinary procedure if she
had not perceived that the moon was made of cheese from her own milk? Well (says your opponent),
the cow might merely have been trying to gain a broader outlook upon life. And here you are
thirteen reasons from the end, and your hands hopelessly full.

Now compare the advantages of the other method. You adopt a resolute bearing and declare: "The
moon is made of green cheese." It is now for your opponent to speak. He argues: "But that would
make the moon's ingredients different from those of the earth and other celestial bodies."
"Not at all," you say; "the earth is made up largely of chalk, and what is the difference between
chalk and cheese, except in the price?" "But, if it's green cheese the moon is made of," asks
your opponent, "why does it look yellow?" "Only the natural effect of atmospheric refraction,"
you reply calmly; "remember how a politician's badly soiled reputation will shine out a brilliant
white, through the favourable atmosphere that surrounds a Congressional investigating committee.
Recall how a lady who is green with envy at her neighbour's new hat will turn pink with delight
when the two meet in the street and kiss. Recall how the same lady's complexion of roses and
milk will assume its natural yellow under the candid dissection of her dearest friends." Your
opponent might go on marshalling his objections forever, and you would have no difficulty in
knocking them on the head.

So I used to believe. But if the method breaks down in the case of Mars and its canals, it
breaks down everywhere else. If there are no canals on Mars, what about the blessings of the
tariff, which are based on exactly the same kind of reasoning? What about the efficacy of mental
healing? What about the advantages of giving up coffee? What about the impending invasion of
California by the Japanese? What about the Kaiser's qualifications as an art critic? What about
the restraining influence of publicity on corporations? What about the connection between easy
divorce and the higher life? What about the divine right of railroad presidents? What about
the theatrical manager's passion for a purified stage? What about the value of all anti-fat
medicines? All of these things have been shown to be true by assuming that they are true. If
the canals on Mars go, all these have to go. And that makes me almost as sad as the fact that
I shall have nothing to talk about with my favourite waiter.

XIX

THE COMPLETE COLLECTOR--II

"The idea of this exquisite little collection of frauds and forgeries," said Cooper, "--and
I don't believe I am boasting when I speak of my few treasures as exquisite--came to me in
a natural enough way. One of the bitterest trials the connoisseur has to contend with, is the
consciousness that no amount of care and expense can guarantee him an absolutely flawless collection.
The suspicion of the experts has fallen upon not a single picture, brass, marble or iron in
his galleries; and yet as he walks those galleries the unhappy owner groans under the moral
conviction that there are spurious pictures on his walls, spurious marbles in his halls, spurious
carvings and coins under his glass cases, and that there they must stay until discovered and
exposed.

"A perfect collection, therefore, in the sense of a collection in which every object can be
traced back with absolute certainty to its author and its place of origin, is impossible. Unless,
and that is how the inspiration came," said Cooper, "unless one set to collecting objects of
art which have been proved to be fraudulent. Then and only then, could one be sure that one's
treasures were just what one believed them to be. And that is just what I set out to do. I
began buying objects of art, which, after masquerading under a great name, had been exposed
and given up to scorn. I have kept at it for twenty years, and I can now point to what no American
multi-millionaire can ever boast of, a collection made up entirely of 'fakes.' When I stroll
through my little museum I am obsessed by no doubts. I am as certain as I am of being alive
that no genuine Leonardo or Holbein or Manet or Cellini has found its way under my roof.

"I must admit," Cooper went on, "that the question of economy has been an important factor
in the case. When we first set up housekeeping, a year after our marriage, our means were not
unlimited and our tastes were of the very highest. Buying the best work or even the second-best
work of the best painters was out of the question. But buying cheap copies of the masters,
replicas, casts, photogravures, was equally impossible. The idea of owning anything that some
one else may own at the same time is abhorrent to the true collector. On the other hand, if
we went in for spurious masterpieces, we were sure of securing unique specimens at very small
expense. And I will not deny that the bargain element appealed very strongly to Mrs. Cooper.
Most of our things we got at really fabulous reductions. There was the crown of an Assyrian
princess of the twenty-fourth century B.C., for which one of the leading European museums paid
$75,000, and which, after it was shown that it had been made by a Copenhagen jeweller in 1907,
I purchased from the museum for something like fifty-five dollars, plus the freight. This charming
little landscape with sheep and a shepherd boy brought $23,000 in a Fifth Avenue auction room
two years ago. Three months after it was sold, a certain Mrs. Smith on Staten Island sued her
husband for desertion and non-support, and in the course of the proceedings it was brought
out that Smith made $10,000 a year painting Corots and Daubignys, and that the $23,000 picture
was one of his latest achievements. I got it for a little over one hundred dollars. I am really
proud of the picture, because Smith has put into it enough of the Corot quality to deceive
many an expert observer. If I were not in possession of the documentary proof that Smith painted
the picture in 1908, I should myself be tempted at times to believe that Smith and his wife
lied in court and that the picture is really a Corot.

"But these are the chances," said Cooper, "that every art-lover must take. I have said that
at present I feel perfectly sure that not a single genuine work has crept in to vitiate my
collection. And that is true. But only a few weeks ago I had a very bad quarter of an hour
indeed over this spurious Tanagra figurine. It had been bought for a museum not one hundred
miles from here by a patron who was a good friend of mine, and who had paid several thousand
dollars for the statuette. I was in the room with Hawley when Stimson, our very greatest Greek
archæologist and art-expert, entered, and, catching sight of the little figure, picked it up,
studied it for a few moments, smelt it, licked it with his tongue, pressed it to his cheek,
and handed it back to my friend with a single, blasting comment--'fake.' We two were incredulous,
but within fifteen minutes Stimson had convinced us that the thing was a palpable fraud. Quite
beside himself with vexation, Hawley lifted up the statuette and was about to dash it into
fragments on the ground, when I caught his arm. 'Let me have it,' I said; and I carried it
home in great glee.

"Well, a few weeks later I was showing my collection to Dr. Friedheimer of Berlin, who is a
much greater man even than Stimson. The German savant stopped in fascination before the Tanagra
figurine. 'A pretty good imitation,' I said. He seized the statuette with trembling fingers.
'Imidation!' he shouted. 'Chenuine, chenuine as de hairs on your het. Himmel, wat a find!'
And he proceeded to do what Stimson had done, and he smelt it and licked it, and rubbed it
against his beard, and I am not sure but that he knocked it against his forehead to test its
texture. And then in his agitation he let the figure fall, and it broke in two on the floor,
and inside we found a bit of newspaper dated Naples, January 27, 1903. Dr. Friedheimer could
only say, 'Unerhört!' but I was nearly frantic with delight. I repaired the statuette, and
it now holds, as you see, the place of honour in my collection."

As we sat over our coffee and cigars, Cooper grew reflective. "After all," he said, "is not
the fabricator of frauds fully as great an artist as the man whose work he imitates? Take the
famous marble Aphrodite of a few years ago, which was attributed by some critics to Praxiteles,
and by some critics to Scopas, until proof came that it had been made in Hoboken. Consider
the labour that went into the fraud. For years, probably, the dishonest sculptor was engaged
in preliminary studies for the work. He spent months in libraries, museums, and the lecture-rooms
of learned professors. He impregnated himself with the spirit of Greek art. He devoted months
to searching for a suitable piece of antique marble. How long he was in carving it, I can only
guess. When it was completed, he boiled it in oil; then he boiled it in milk; then he boiled
it in soap; then he boiled it in a concoction of molasses and wine; then he buried it in moist
soil, and let it age for three years.

"Now, suppose the statue had been really carved by Praxiteles. That joyous master and genius
might have put two weeks' work, three weeks' work, a month's work, upon it, and there you were.
What was the labour of a lifetime to the other man was to Praxiteles just an easy bit of routine.
If art is a man's soul and hopes and brain and sweat and blood put into concrete form, who
produced the truer work of art, Praxiteles or the unknown sculptor of Hoboken? I speak only
of the comparative expenditure of effort. So far as the artistic result is concerned, it is
evident, from the ease with which we were taken in, that there is no great difference between
the school of Hoboken and the school of Praxiteles."

XX

WHEN A FRIEND MARRIES

Taking dinner with an old friend who has just been married is an experience I regard with apprehension.
In the first place, it is always awkward to be introduced to a woman who begins by being jealous
of you because you knew her husband long before she did. She may be a nice woman; in fact,
from the air of almost imbecile happiness that invests young Hobson, you are sure she is. But
since it is natural to hate those whom we have injured, it is natural for young wives to dislike
their husband's friends.

People say that a woman begins to prepare for marriage at the age of five. Judging from the
absolutely spontaneous way in which the Hobsons have taken to it, marriage is a career that
calls for no preparation whatever. I am not referring, of course, to the outward aspects of
early housekeeping. The little difficulties that beset the newly married are there. I can see
that my hostess is more anxious about the creamed potatoes than she will be five years hence.
Her attitude to the maid who waits on us is by turns excessively severe and excessively timid.
I learn that the dining-room table has been sent back twice to the store, and is still not
the one originally ordered. But these are trifles. It is with the Hobsons' souls I am concerned;
and their souls are perfectly at ease in their new estate.

The first few minutes, like all introductions, go stiffly. The bride smiles and says that Jack
has often spoken to her about you. Whereupon you remember that there are not many secrets a
young husband keeps from his wife. Jack is no sieve, but he would be more than human if he
has failed to dissect your little weaknesses and humours for his new wife. He has probably
emphasized the two or three particular little failings of character which have prevented you
from realising the brilliant promise you showed at college. At bottom, Jack thinks, you have
the capacity for being almost as happy as he, Jack, is. But then, again, if Mrs. Hobson does
know you thoroughly well, it strikes you that there is that much trouble saved, and you sit
down to chat with a fair sense of intimacy.

Toward such conversation you and the man of the house are the principal contributors. You speak
of college days and contemporary politics, and other things that the wife is not interested
in, but she smiles graciously, and now and then takes sides with you against her husband. At
one point in the conversation you look up and find her quietly scrutinising you. And you recall
what you have heard concerning the match-making propensities of young wives, and you wonder
uneasily if to herself she is running over a list of girl friends and trying to decide which
one will suit you best. You even suspect that she inclined toward a Marjorie or an Edith, who
is plain, but clever, a good manager, and of an affectionate disposition. Happily, at that
moment the bride thanks you for your handsome wedding gift.

At table the visitor begins to be more at ease. For one thing, there is the traditional hazing
process to which the bride must be subjected. Jack takes the lead. Admitting that to-night's
repast is an unqualified success, he hints that there have been occasions when, if he only
would, there might be a different tale to tell. The visitor protests; yet in the extravagant
praise he resorts to there is a suggestion of mild banter which is considered the proper thing.
The wife professes to enter into the joke; but in her heart she laughs to see the two men go
solemnly through the stupid and outworn ceremonial. Young wives nowadays are excellent cooks.
This one has secretly pursued a three months' course in domestic science and has a diploma
hidden away somewhere. But she pretends to be properly outraged by our foolish satire, and
insists on both being helped a second time to the custard. Jack, in fact, eats all that remains.
It makes dish-washing easier, he says.

And as the visitor steers his way pleasantly through the meal, he makes the acquaintance of
an extraordinary number of relatives. The spoons, he finds, are from Aunt Amy. Aunt Amy lives
in Syracuse and at first objected to the match. The salt cellar is from a male cousin who (you
learn this from Jack), it was thought at one time, would be the fortunate man himself--that
is, until Jack appeared on the scene. Poor fellow, he sought consolation by marrying, only
two months later, a nice girl from Alexandria, Va. The cut-glass salad dish is from the bride's
dearest friend at boarding-school, a charming girl, who paints and sings and is now studying
music in Berlin.

When the coffee is brought in, Jack asks if you will smoke. This is, in a way, the most dangerous
situation of the entire evening. If you say yes, Jack is apt to pass the cigars and and say,
"Go right ahead. I have given it up, you know, and I feel all the better for it." But if you
are expert in reading faces, and decide that the bride probably has conscientious scruples
against the habit, and you reply "No," Jack is likely to say, "Sorry, but Alice allows me one
cigar a day after dinner," and you are left to suffer the torments of the lost, and have lied
into the bargain. Nor is it possible to lay down any rule for arriving at the correct reply
under such circumstances. A hurried glance about the house will not help one. A handsome bronze
ash-tray may be only a paperweight. Young wives are in the habit of buying their husbands the
most ornate smoking apparatus, with the understanding that it shall never be used.

It is after dinner that reflection comes; and with it comes a touch of sorrowful wonder. Jack
bears himself with great equanimity in his new condition; but it is apparent, nevertheless,
that he has changed from what you knew him. In the first place, he has built up a comprehensive
system of domestic serfdom to which he cheerfully submits. He glories in his enslavement; he
rattles his chains. He actually boasts of the habit he has acquired of dropping in at the grocer's
every morning on his way to the office. When it is the maid's day out, Jack insists on helping
with the dishes and he tells you with pride that, given plenty of hot water, there is nothing
in that line which he would hesitate to undertake. He makes it a point to visit Washington
Market at least twice a week, and he comes home with cuts, joints, steaks, rounds, poultry,
fish, game, and fruits in dazzling variety. He carries these things conspicuously in the Subway.
And Jack's wife is appreciative of his kind intentions, and lets him bring, from long distances,
meats which she can purchase at several cents a pound less from her butcher two blocks away.

The passion for acquiring food commodities is only one phase of Jack's new character. You begin
to see now that all these years you have never suspected what capacities for home-building
he had in him. In the presence of any kind of article offered for sale his overmastering passion
is to buy the thing and take it home. Instinct apparently impels him to store up quite useless
supplies against a future emergency. He haunts hardware stores, he rummages in antique furniture
shops, and you may see him any day during the lunch hour flattening his nose against windowfuls
of copper and brass ware. He buys patent hammers by the quarter dozen, as well as nails, tacks,
screws, bolts, casters, brackets, and curtain poles. He brings home Japanese vases from the
auction rooms. One day he acquired a step-ladder; it came by wagon because they refused to
let him take it into the Subway.

And Jack's wife acquiesces in his self-imposed servitude. She does not demand it; she is even
a good deal incommoded by it. But her woman's instinct tells her that the thing is a disease,
which a man must catch, like the measles. Until the husband's passion for home-building quiets
down, she is content to accept the unnatural situation; she is even proud to have inspired it.

But as Jack prattles on, and Jack's wife smiles over her embroidery frame, it comes over you
that, despite all the kindly communion of the evening, you are an outsider there. You ask yourself
bitterly whether there is such a thing as constancy in man, whether there is such a thing as
true comradeship or affection. For fifteen years, from your freshman year at high school, you
and Jack have been what the world calls friends. What are you now? Jack still calls you friend;
apparently that is the reason why you have just dined with him and his wife. But in reality
you are not there as his friend. You are there as the guest of this newly-constituted social
unit, this new family. You are there not as a person, but as part of an institution.

And just when you are ready to accept the new situation you are swept away by the unreality
of the entire arrangement. It is inconceivable that Jack should have thrown you over for this
alien person whom he calls wife. Your habits and Jack's are so much alike; your tastes, your
outlook upon life. You used to play the same games at college, sing the same songs, smoke the
same tobacco, wear each other's clothes, and now Jack has thrown you over for one with whom
in the nature of things he can have none of those habits in common. It is not merely puzzling;
it grows almost absurd. You shake your head over it some time after you have said good-night,
and the bride has told you that as a dear friend of Jack's, they always will be pleased to
have you call.

XXI

THE PERFECT UNION OF THE ARTS

I have never had the slightest reason to doubt Harding's truthfulness. The following episode,
I remember, was told with more than Harding's usual gravity. I can do nothing better than to
give it here in Harding's own words so far as I can recall them:

On the third day after his arrival, my guest, Muhammad Abu Nozeyr, said to me, "O Harding Effendi,
I desire greatly to witness a presentation of what you and the wife of your bosom, on whom
both be peace, have often referred to as Grand Opera."

I replied, with involuntary astonishment. "Son of a hundred sheiks, forgive my seemingly derelict
hospitality. But I should have asked you before this to go to the opera with us, if I had not
thought that the principles of your faith were opposed thereto. For you must know, O Father
of the Defenceless, that our women go there unveiled even as the women of the people that you
see on our streets, and that on the stage, singers of both sexes indulge in open exaltation
of that thing called love, which your prophet has confined within the walls of the haremlik."

Abu Nozeyr laughed. "Your knowledge of our customs, Harding Effendi, is fifty years behind
the times. True, I come from the desert, and have never heard your singing women of the stage.
But did not one of the learned muftis at yesterday's evening repast declare that 'Aïda' was
written for the Khedewi Ismail Pasha, may his soul rest in peace?"

"Yes," I said; "but you will understand, Dispenser of a Thousand Mercies, why at first blush
Islam and the lyric stage should strike me as somewhat incompatible."

"Not modern Islam," he replied. "Take us not too literally. I am told that your people, like
others of the Feringhi, have succeeded in building battleships which are really instruments
of peace; that you have trust companies in which you place no confidence, and Open Doors which
you close against people from my part of the world; you have legislators who speak but do not
legislate, and a Speaker who legislates but does not speak; you have had men in your White
House who always saw red, and you have red-emblazoned newspapers which are yellow; you call
your politicians public servants who are your masters, and you call your women the masters,
but will not let them vote. Why, then, should you be so surprised at any seeming incongruity
in others?"

"I am convinced, Abu Nozeyr," I said, "and to-morrow we will go to see 'Tristan und Isolde.'
But shall I attempt to describe for you, in a few words, just what Grand Opera is?"

"My ear is open to your words, Harding Effendi."

"Know, then, Protector of the Fatherless, that the music-drama is a perfect blending of all
the arts. It calls to its aid the resources of sculpture, painting, dancing, together with
numerous mechanical agencies, and to a minor extent, music and the drama. For observe, O Abu
Nozeyr, that each art aims to awake its own specific emotion. Sculpture appeals to our sense
of form, painting to our delight in colour, dancing to the pleasure of rhythmic motion, the
mechanic arts to our liking for sudden action, while music and the uttered word represent the
union of the clearest and vaguest modes of expressing thought. It follows therefore that the
highest phase of human emotion can only be expressed by that art which gives us simultaneously
the living form of a Venus de Milo with the colouring of a Titian, the grace of a Nautch girl,
the miracle-working powers of a Hindu fakir, the elocution of a Demosthenes, and the voice
of a Malibran."

"By the beard of the Prophet," exclaimed Abu Nozeyr, "I thought such bliss was to be had only
in the Paradise of the Faithful; and that is Grand Opera, Harding Effendi?"

"With certain modifications," I replied. "Nothing human is perfect, Abu Nozeyr. It is a regrettable
circumstance that the human voice attains its perfect development many years after the human
form. Hence our heroes on the lyric stage are all middle-aged and our heroines somewhat heavy
in movement. I have seen a pair of starving lovers in an operatic garret, who would surely
not have passed the scrutiny of a United Charities investigator. It is also to be regretted
that adequate voice-production leaves no breath for dancing or other forms of active effort.
Hence the dance with which Carmen fascinates poor Don José, argues an intense readiness to
be pleased on the part of the latter, and Telramund's defeat at the hands of Lohengrin is never
quite free from a certain degree of contributory negligence."

"But tell me this, Harding Effendi, are there composers who have carried the union of the arts
to a higher point than others?"

"There are, O Grandson of the Wild Ass. There are operas in which at certain moments the libretto
speaks of a leaping fire, the music plays leaping fire, and the fire actually leaps and blazes
on the stage. But unfortunately it always happens that the words cannot be heard because of
the orchestra, and the fire sinks when the orchestral swell rises, and rises when the orchestral
surge subsides. I have caught the orchestral sound of hammer on anvil long before the two have
come into contact, and have heard Spring described as entering through a door which persists
in staying closed. I have seen boats being pushed by human hands, Rhine maidens suspended on
a wire, and harvest moons moving in orbits unknown to Herschel and Pickering."

"And are there people who still persist in taking their sculpture, painting, drama, and music
separately, Harding Effendi?"

"There are; but that is because they fail to recognise that opera is a perfect union of all
the arts. To-morrow, Abu Nozeyr, we go to hear 'Tristan und Isolde.' It appeals to every one
of our senses. To enjoy it completely, however, it is often wise to close one's eyes and just
hear the singer sing."

XXII

AN EMINENT AMERICAN

After dinner I asked Herr Grundschnitt what headway he was making in his studies of American
life. The professor was in more than his usually mellow mood. He had enjoyed his dinner. He
liked his cigar. He confided to me that he was hard at work on a volume of sketches dealing
with the career of representative successful Americans, and he offered to read me one of his
early chapters. If the following summary of Herr Grundschnitt's account of the life of Wallabout
Smith can even suggest the extraordinary impression which the original produced upon me, I
am content.

Wallabout Smith did not attain recognition until late in life. I gather that he must have been
well over fifty when a former President of the United States declared that Wallabout Smith,
by raising a family of four sons and two daughters, had done more for his country than all
the laws enacted by the Legislatures of all the New England and Middle Atlantic States since
the Spanish-American War. Fame came rapidly after this. The college professors repeated what
the former President said. The newspapers repeated what the college professors said. The playwrights
repeated what the newspapers said. The pulpit repeated what the playwrights said. Interviewers
descended upon Wallabout Smith. They wore out his front lawn, the hall carpet, and the maid-servant's
temper; but they always found Smith himself patient, affable, ready to say whatever they wished
him to say.

The reporters would usually begin by asking Wallabout Smith what were his lighter interests
in life. "I find my greatest pleasure," Smith would reply, "in common things. For instance,
I have never ceased to be intensely interested in the cost of shoes and stockings. The subject
is fascinating and inexhaustible. One gets tired of most things, but there has never been a
time in which the cost of shoes and stockings has failed to appeal with peculiar force to me.
My odd moments on the train have as a rule been taken up with that question. If you have ever
thought upon this subject, you must have been struck with the fact that, putting food aside,
shoes and stockings constitute the most permanent and persistent human need. They begin with
the first few weeks of our life, and they continue to the end; the size alone changes. It is
a subject, too, that opens up such wide horizons. For while a man of comparatively little leisure
can confine himself to the simple topic of shoes and stockings, he may, if he so desires, widen
the field of his interests so as to include the allied subjects of frocks, jackets, blouses,
caps, and collars, until he has covered the entire range of children's apparel. Nor is that
all. I have spent many an absorbing hour figuring out the annual rate of increase in servants'
wages and rent. Of late years I have been in the habit of putting in part of my lunch hour
in a study of college fees and tailors' bills. In moments of extreme physical lassitude, when
nothing else appeals to me, I think about the next quarterly premium on my insurance policy."

How well-known men do their work has always interested the public. Few newspaper men omitted
to question Wallabout Smith on this subject. From the large number of interviews cited by Herr
Grundschnitt we may build up a very fair picture of Wallabout Smith's daily routine. It was
his habit to spend a good part of his day in New York City. He would rise about six o'clock
every week-day in the year, and, snatching a hasty breakfast, would make his way to the railroad
station, pausing now and then in perplexity as he tried to recall what it was his wife had
asked him to bring home from town. Sometimes he would catch his train and sometimes he would
not. Arrived at his office, he would remove his coat, and, putting on a black alpaca jacket
to which he was greatly attached, he would proceed to glance over, check, and transcribe the
contents of a large number of bills and vouchers representing the daily transactions of a very
prosperous commercial enterprise in which he had no proprietary interest. The day's work would
be pleasantly broken up by frequent inquiries from the general manager's office. Every now
and then a fellow-worker would take a moment from his duties to ask Wallabout Smith how his
lawn was getting on. Sometimes he would be summoned to the telephone, only to learn that Central
had called the wrong number. Lunch was a matter of a few minutes. At 5.30 every afternoon Wallabout
Smith exchanged his alpaca jacket for his street coat with a fine sense of weariness, and the
secure conviction that the next morning would find the same task waiting for him on his table.
"I have no hesitation in stating," Smith would frequently say, "that some of the busiest hours
of my life have been spent at my office desk."

Walking was his favourite form of exercise. When he lived in the city during the first few
years after his marriage, he used to walk the floor with the baby. Later when the children
began to grow up and he moved out into the country, he walked to and from the station. His
gait was a free, manly stride, bordering close upon a run, in the morning, and a more deliberate,
sliding pace, somewhat suggestive of a shuffle, in the evening. He was at his best when tramping
the country roads with a congenial companion or two on a Sunday afternoon. On such occasions
he would pour forth a continuous stream of light-hearted talk on everything under the sun--the
new board of village trustees, the shameful condition of the village streets, the prospects
of a new roof for the railway station. Good-nature was the keynote of his character, but he
would frequently sum up a situation or a person with a sly touch of irony or a trenchant word
or two. He once described the village streets as being paved chiefly with good intentions.
Another time he characterised the minister of a rival church as having the courage of his wife's
convictions. But such flashes of satire went and left no rancour behind them. His high spirits
were proof against everything but automobiles. These he detested, not because they made walking
unpleasant and even dangerous, but because they were run by men who mortgaged their homes to
buy motor cars, and thus threatened the stability of business conditions.

Wallabout Smith would often be asked to lay down a few rules for those who wished to emulate
his success. He would invariably reply that the secret of bringing up children was the same
double secret that underlay success in every other field--enthusiasm and patience. "It has
always been my belief," he would say, "that the head of a family should spend at least as much
time with his children as he does at his barber's or his lodge, and, if possible, a little
more. Children undoubtedly stand in need of supervision. In the beginning, it is a question
largely of keeping them away from the matches and the laudanum. Fortunately, we live at some
distance from a trolley-line and there is no well in our back-yard. As my children grew up,
I made it a point to know what books they were reading out of school and whether the boys were
addicted to the filthy cigarette habit. On the subjects of breakfast foods and corporal punishment,
I have always kept an open mind."

The experiment of living upon a basis of comradeship with one's children which we see so frequently
recommended was not a success in the case of Wallabout Smith. "Although my boys are fond of
me," he once told a reporter, "they usually regard my presence as a bore. When I find time
to go out walking with them, they do their best to lose me, and whenever we divide off into
teams for a game of ball, each side insists on my going with the other side. I have made up
my mind that there is a time for being with one's children and a time for letting them alone,
and that the proper time for being with them is when they are in trouble and want you, and
the proper time for letting them alone is when they are happy and wish to be let alone. This
I admit is the reverse of the common practice, and probably there is something to be said for
parents who grow fond of their children's society when they, the parents, have nothing else
to do. As a rule, I have never obtruded myself on my boys, being confident that natural affection
and the recurrent need of pocket-money would constitute a sufficient bond between us."

There was, in conclusion, one factor in his success upon which Wallabout Smith would never
fail to lay the most emphatic stress, and to which Herr Grundschnitt attached equal importance.
"Such fame," he would say, "as has fallen to my share must be attributed in the very largest
measure to my wife. Many is the time she gave up her meetings at the Browning Club to watch
with me beside the sick-bed of one of our little ones. And she would do this so uncomplainingly,
so cheerfully, that it almost made one oblivious to the extent of her sacrifice. There must
have been occasions, I feel sure, when it cost her a pang to find her photograph omitted from
the local paper's account of a club meeting or a church bazaar; but if she ever suffered on
that score, she never let it be known. I can truly say that, without her, my life work would
have spelt failure."

XXIII

BEHIND THE TIMES

I had scarcely exchanged a half-dozen sentences with Howard King before we knew ourselves for
kindred spirits. I was in a roomful of people who were talking about new books I had not read,
new plays I had not seen, and new singers I had not heard, and I was exceedingly lonesome.
There was one youngish middle-aged lady in pink, who asked me what was the best novel I had
read of late, and when I said "Robert Elsmere," she looked at me rather grimly and asked whether
I lived in New York. When I said yes, she turned away and began chatting with a young man on
her right, who looked like the advertisement for a new linen collar. It was this reply of mine
that attracted Howard King's attention. He had been sitting in one corner of the room quite
as disconsolate as I was. But now he walked over and shook hands and told me that in his opinion
"Robert Elsmere" was not so good a book as "Trilby," which he was just reading.

Howard King and I belong to the comparatively small class of men whom nature, or fate, or whatever
you please, has decreed to be always a certain interval behind the times; it might be years
or months or days, according to the rate of speed at which a particular fashion happened to
be moving forward. King told me, for instance, that of late he has been possessed with a passionate
desire to learn the game of ping-pong. When all the world was playing table-tennis eight or
ten years ago, King viewed the game with disgust. He thought it utterly childish, uninteresting,
and admirably illustrative of all the idiotic qualities that go to make up a fad. But for the
last six months, King said, he frequently wakes at night and sits up in bed and yearns with
all his soul for a ping-pong set. He was, of course, ashamed to speak to others about it. But
if he could find some one who shared his feelings on the subject, he had a large library with
a square table in it. Would I come to-morrow night? I said I should be very glad, indeed.

I told Howard King what my attitude is toward clothes. It is my fate always to grow fond of
a fashion just as it is passing out. I recalled the exaggerated military styles for men that
came in with the Spanish-American and the South African wars. Those enormously padded shoulders
and tight-shaped waists and swelling trouser legs, and the strut and the stoop that went with
the whole ugly ensemble, roused my anger. My feelings remained unchanged until some time after
the Russo-Japanese War, and then one day it came to me that I must have a suit of military
cut. It was like the sudden awakening of the unregenerate to grace, it was as irresistible
as first love. And when the tailor said that only sloping shoulders were now being worn, that
what I wanted was hopelessly out of date, the sense of loss was overpowering. I confessed to
King that in my opinion nothing uglier in men's apparel was conceivable than the green plush
hats that are just beginning to go out of style. And I told him that I was as certain as I
am certain of anything in this world that some day in the very near future I shall be seized
with an uncontrollable longing to wear a green plush hat, and I shall enter a shop and ask
for one, and the man behind the counter will look at me quizzically, and, after a long search,
bring me the only plush hat in his shop, and I shall carry it home in shame, and put it away
in my closet, and mourn over the resolution that came too late.

You must not imagine that Howard King and I are conservatives. We do not hold fast to one thing,
or even hold fast to the old. We move forward, but at a pace so curiously regulated as to bring
us to the front door just when most people are leaving by the back. I have worn every shape
of linen collar that the best-dressed men have worn during the last fifteen years; but I have
worn them from three to six months late. I became passionately fond of bicycling shortly after
all the bicycle factories began the exclusive production of automobiles. I am not very fond
of automobiles, but I shall be, I know, when aëroplanes come into extensive use. It is only
in the last few months that I have discovered how amusing a toy the Teddy bear makes. And this
is true of fashions in games and of fashions in language. I have no fundamental objections
to slang, but I always pick up the bit of slang that most people are just discarding.

I recall, for instance, how, up in the hills last summer, the woods and glens were echoing
to the sound, half a howl and half a screech, of "Oh, you!" addressed at quarter-minute intervals
to every object, animate or inanimate, that came within the howler's vision or thought. This
particular bit of gutter-slang induced a peculiar irritation. It seemed to me utter desecration
that this quickening beauty of hill and sky and river and green woods, which should have stirred
young hearts to madrigals and chorals, should resound to the blatant, shrieking vulgarity of
Lobster Square. I do not mind confessing that at times my feelings towards the innocent young
barbarians bordered close on murder. Until--until, alas! one September morning, after all the
guests were gone and I alone remained; that morning I woke with the poison in my soul, and
I walked down to the river for my bath, and, coming across the farmer's herd of cows halfway
down the hillside, saluted them, before I knew what I was doing, with that horrid, that unspeakable--I
blush now to think of it. When I told Howard King, he admitted humbly that after holding out
for years he has just begun to say, "It's me," and that he feels morally convinced that within
the next year or two he will be saying "Between you and I."

But you must not think that this peculiarity in Howard King and myself is an acquired habit
or a pose in which we take any measure of pride. Our attitude towards those happy people who
are always in fashion is one of sincere and profound envy. I think there is nothing more wonderful
under the sun than the unknown force that impels the great majority to begin doing the same
new thing at the same time. It must be a precious gift to feel instinctively what the right
new thing is to do. A mysterious fiat goes forth and a million women simultaneously put on
black straw hats surmounted by a cock in his pride. Another mysterious order goes forth and
two million women simultaneously begin reading the latest novel by Robert W. Chambers. Pitiable
are those in whom this instinct is wanting and who must tag timidly behind, venturing only
where a million others have gone before. Perhaps it is, with such people, a case of arrested
development. Boys of sixteen and girls of fourteen have supplied the poets with their greatest
love stories and direst tragedies. And there are men and women well gone into middle age who
balk and stammer in the presence of the most elementary sensation. Perhaps at bottom it is
simply a question of courage and cowardice.

In any case, being behind the times is a peculiarly unfortunate trait in a man, who, like myself,
is condemned to earn his bread in the sweat of his fountain-pen. In what other profession must
a man be so emphatically up to the minute as in this scribbling profession of ours? Only yesterday
I walked into an editor's office and suggested a three-thousand word review of "The Rise of
Silas Lapham," which I told him was one of the greatest novels in any language. He stared at
me and asked if I hadn't some fresher book in mind, and I, somewhat taken aback, told him that
I was just finishing Frank Norris's "McTeague" and was about to begin on Mrs. Wharton's "House
of Mirth." With a brutality characteristic of editors he asked me whether I didn't care to
write a review of Homer's Iliad and the book of Deuteronomy. I told him that I might very well
do so if it were a question of writing something he would find personally instructive, and
rose to go, with the intention of slamming the door behind me.

But he called me back and insisted that he meant no offence, that he simply must have live,
up-to-date copy or nothing at all. He proposed a popular article on art, and wondered if I
could write something about the Dutch masters, with special reference to the recent notable
exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum. I was obliged to confess that I had missed the exhibition
by two weeks. "Well," he said, patiently, "there is opera. You might do something about the
singers. You have heard Mary Garden, of course?" I told him no. Only the other day I had irrevocably
decided to hear Mary Garden in "Thaïs" next season; and the next morning I learned that Mr.
Hammerstein had gone out of business.

He continued to be patient with me. "There's 'Chantecler,' to be sure, although that is ancient
history by this time. Have you read the play?" I had not, but just here an inspiration came.
"You sneered at Homer just now," I said. "Well, there was another Greek who wrote a bird play
2,300 years before Rostand. I mean Aristophanes----" The editor leaped from his chair. "Great,
great!" he cried. "We'll call it 'Chantecler 400 B.C.'" I caught the infection of his enthusiasm.
"And Aristophanes had another play on woman's rights," I told him. "You might call it 'An Athenian
Suffragette.'" "Splendid!" he cried; "splendid; we can make a whole series, and Goulden will
do the pictures in colours. It's the most novel thing I have heard of for a long time. It will
beat the others by a mile." And he sent me away happy.

XXIV

PUBLIC LIARS

There are three things that puzzle me; yes, four things that I cannot explain: Why street clocks
never show the right time; why thermometers hanging outside of drug stores never indicate the
right temperature; why slot machines on a railway platform never give the right weight; and
why weather-vanes always point in the wrong direction. At bottom, I imagine, these are really
not four things, but one. For it must be the same mysterious and malicious principle that takes
each of these contrivances, set up to be a public guide to truth, and turns it into an instrument
for the dissemination of error.

What makes me think that there is some animate principle behind such clocks is that they are
so like a good many people one meets. There are persons who are packed with the most curiously
inaccurate information on the most abstruse subjects, and they insist on imparting it to you.
I have no ground to complain if I ask Jones what is the capital of Illinois and he says Chicago.
The initiative was mine, and taken at my own peril, and it is fair that I should pay the penalty.
But frequently Jones will break in upon me in the middle of a column of figures and tell me
that the largest ranch in the world is situated in the State of Sonora, Mexico. "Yes?" I say,
hoping that he will go away. "Yes," he assures me. "It is so large that the proprietor can
ride 200 days on horseback without leaving his own grounds. He has 2,000,000 men working for
him and he lives in a marble palace of 700 rooms. No one can be elected President of Mexico
against his will."

Now obviously it would have been better for me to remain altogether unacquainted with Mexican
conditions than to share Jones's distorted view of affairs in that interesting republic. But
Jones insists on taking the innocent blank spaces in my knowledge of the world and filling
them up with the most incorrect data. He tells me, for instance, that Mme. Finisterra once
sang the mad scene from "Lucia" before the late Sultan of Morocco, who wept so bitterly that
the performance was interrupted lest the monarch should go into convulsions. At the age of
eight Mme. Finisterra knew twelve operatic soprano rôles by heart, and when she was ten she
played Juliet to Tamagno's Romeo. She now gets $10,000 a night, in addition to the service
of a maid, a chef, and two private secretaries. In private life she is very stout. All this,
needless to say, is not true.

But I must not forget the clocks. The worst of the class, oddly enough, are those found in
front of watchmakers' and opticians' shops. I sometimes think that such clocks are purposely
put out of order by the shop-keeper. The object is apparently to induce irascible old gentlemen
to enter the store, watch in hand, in order to protest against the maintenance of a public
nuisance. It is then a comparatively easy task to sell them a pair of solid gold spectacles
with double lenses at a handsome profit. I, for one, would not blame the old gentleman who
should pick up a stone and hurl it at one of these Tartuffes and Chadbands of the street-corner
with their chubby, gilded hands reposing on their prosperous stomachs, sleek and smug and ultra-respectable,
but unconscionable liars for all that. They are not content with their own success in cheating,
they throw discredit upon honest folk. How many a faithful pocket-piece has been pulled out
by its disappointed owner and actually set wrong to make it agree with one of these rubicund
old sinners? Such is the overpowering effect of impudent assurance on the ordinary man.

The difference between the typical public clock and a watch out of order is obvious. Every
prudent man knows the peculiarities of his own watch, just as he knows the peculiarities of
his own wife and children; and he is consequently prepared to make allowances. But the clock
on the street corner persists in thrusting false information upon you. The man who consults
his watch does so with a purpose, and is naturally on the alert. But the cheating clock confronts
him in moments of unsuspecting security, and throws him into a condition of the wildest alarm.
It is peculiarly active on bright spring days, when people rise early and look forward to being
at their desks half an hour before their usual time. On such occasions they invariably come
upon a clock which points to a quarter of ten, and sends them scurrying breathless up four
flights of stairs, to find the janitor engaged in cleaning out the baskets.

Church clocks are not so bad as jewellers' clocks; but they are bad enough, and, in the nature
of things, we have a right to expect more from a church clock than from any other kind. For
the same reason the weathercock on a church steeple is to be judged by a higher standard than
the one over a carpenter's shop or the ordinary dwelling. I cannot, for instance, imagine a
more dangerous moral ensemble than a church with a clergyman preaching bad doctrine in the
pulpit, a clock indicating the wrong time on the tower, and, over all, a clogged weather vane
pointing to the south when the wind blows from the east.

With reference to denominations I have observed that Presbyterian clocks are apt to be more
reliable than any other kind, although the truest clock I have ever come across is on a little
Dutch Reformed Church in Orange County. One of the most unprincipled clocks I can think of
is just outside my window. I use unprincipled with intention, for this clock is not vicious,
but giddy. If it were consistently late or consistently early, one might get used to it. But
to look out of the window at 9:30 and find this clock pointing to eleven, and to look out ten
minutes later and find it pointing to 9:35, is extremely disconcerting. One is inclined to
expect something more restrained in a clock connected with the most prosperous parish of one
of our most conservative denominations.

What I have said of clocks is largely true of the weighing-machine. Like the public clock,
it thrusts itself upon us, and like the clock it betrays the confidence which it invites. I
feel convinced that no one would ever think of using a weighing-machine if it did not constitute
the most characteristically national piece of furniture in our railway stations. All weighing-machines
cheat, but, if cheat they must, give me the machine that flatly refuses to budge from zero
after it has swallowed your coin. I prefer that kind to the spasmodic machine on which the
indicator moves forward one hundred pounds every two minutes and leaves a person utterly uncertain
as to whether he should immediately begin dieting or purchase a bottle of codliver oil. Yet
even this mockery of a weighing-machine is preferable to the emotional type of scales which
simultaneously gives you a false weight, tells your fortune in utter disregard of age and sex,
and plays a tune that cannot be recognised. When such a machine has registered a German matron's
weight at 115 pounds and informed her that she will some day be President of the United States,
it is ludicrous to have it break into a tinkle of self-appreciation, like a spaniel barking
his own approval after walking across the room on his hind legs.

As for the ordinary street thermometer, there is this to be said for it: It may deceive, but
it gives pleasure in deceiving. When a person is sagging beneath the heat of an August midday,
it is a distinct source of comfort and pride to have the thermometer register 98 degrees. Even
when we are fully aware that the mercury is too high by three or four degrees, it is easy enough
to make one's self believe for the moment in the higher figure. If it were not for this spiritual
stimulus, I should be inclined to regard all thermometers as a nuisance. Translating Fahrenheit
into Centigrade and vice versa, is one of the most painful mental processes I can think of.
I know that I cannot perform the operation, and I cannot help trying. I remember how a certain
European monarch once lay seriously ill and my evening newspaper reported that his temperature
was 38.3 degrees C. On my way home I attempted to put 38.3 degrees C. into terms of F., and
it speaks well for the constitution of that European monarch that he should have survived the
violent fluctuations of temperature to which I subjected him. At Grand Central Station he was
literally burning up under a blazing heat of 142 degrees. At Ninety-sixth Street he was down
to 74. As I walked home from the station I was forced to admit that I was not sure whether
one should multiply by five-ninths or nine-fifths.

I would not be misunderstood. I am no enemy of the public institutions I have criticised. Far
from it; clocks, thermometers, weather-vanes, and weighing-machines--they are but the remnants
of the fine old communal life of which our urban and Anglo-Saxon civilisation has kept only
too little. We do not lounge about and take our meals in the public squares as people used
to do in Athens and still do in Sicily. We no longer fill our pitchers at a common fountain
or dance on the village green or regulate the life of an entire city to the same signal from
a campanile. Ours is an age of exaggerated privacy, where every one works behind closed doors
and glances furtively at his watch. But precisely because it is a precious survival the public
clock ought to keep itself above reproach and above suspicion.

XXV

THE COMPLETE COLLECTOR--III

Cooper's museum of Proverbial Realities had proven such a source of delight to himself and
his friends that the news of its destruction by fire came with a shock to all who knew him.
Of all his treasures he succeeded in saving only part of his priceless collection of straws--the
straw that showed which way the wind blew, the straw grasped at by a drowning man, the straw
that does not enter into the manufacture of bricks, and the last straw that broke the camel's
back. How would Cooper stand the blow, his friends wondered. He took it very well. Within a
week he had set to work on a new fad, the collection of Statistical Realities, and in a half-year
he had filled three good-sized lofts and a large back-yard with his treasures. Yesterday he
took me through his galleries.

"What do you make of this?" he said, stopping before a glass jar some four feet high, in which,
to the peril of one's nerves, you could distinctly see the upper two-thirds of a child's body.
Head, trunk, and arms were beautifully fashioned, but there was no vestige of growth below
the knee-caps. I could only show my astonishment. "Well," he went on, "you must have seen the
statement by the president of Bryn Mawr that the average number of children among college-bred
mothers is 3-6/10. This is the six-tenths of a child. Here," he said, pointing to another and
somewhat larger jar, "you see three-fifths of a woman; 1-3/5 women to one man is the ratio
in some parts of Ireland. Here, in adjoining bottles, are three-tenths of a physician, seven-eighths
of a lawyer, and four-fifths of a clergyman, the latest census having shown that we have 23-3/10
physicians, 29-7/8 lawyers, and 17-4/5 physicians for every 1,000 of our population."

Stopping before a glass case containing little heaps of ordinary copper coins, Harrington pointed
out that these were the odd cents which the scrupulous science of statistics insists on leaving
attached to vast sums of money. He showed me the 27 cents which, added to $3,469,746,854 represented
the value of the foreign commerce of the United States in 1910; he showed me the twopence ha'penny
which, increased by £788,990,187, constitutes the total funded debt of Great Britain; and he
laid special emphasis on the eleven pennies which Tammany's most vigorous efforts at economy
could not pare off from New York City's budget of $166,246,729.11 for the year 1909.

Another row of glass cases contained what appeared at first sight a collection of comic dolls.
Cooper pointed to a sturdy little mannikin in boots and a Russian blouse, who, with mouth fearfully
distended, was endeavouring to swallow an iron bar four or five times his own size. "You may
have read," said Cooper, "that the annual consumption of pig-iron in Russia is 3.7 tons per
capita. This figure shows the fact concretely. Here," indicating the figure of an infant apparently
a week or two old, "is a French baby. You may observe that she is engaged in counting her share
of the national wealth, which is estimated in France at 1,254 francs 63 centimes for every
man, woman, and child. She is wondering whether she ought to invest her capital in Russian
treasury bonds or in Steel Common. This," pointing to a group of seven or eight dolls riding
on a perfectly modelled brindled cow, "represents the proportions of domesticated cattle to
the total population of the United States."

The fire which flashes up in the eye of every amateur when he contemplates the gem of his collection,
was visible as Cooper led the way to a good-sized platform of polished mahogany and brass on
which was set up what I took to be a beautiful reproduction of the planetary system in miniature.
I was right. "But observe," said Cooper, "the details of construction. The sun is made up of
infinitely small eggs, since we know that the weight of all the hen's eggs consumed by the
human race since the beginning of the Christian era is equal to one-billionth the weight of
the sun. The planets are fashioned in the same way. Jupiter you see is made up of little, squirming
animal-like units; that is because Jupiter occupies the same amount of space that would be
filled by the descendants of a single pair of Australian rabbits in five hundred years, if
left unchecked. Observe the orbit of the earth. It is marked out in twopenny postage stamps,
for statisticians assure us that the path of the earth around the sun is equivalent in length
to all the postage stamps consumed since the beginning of the nineteenth century, if laid end
to end. In the same way the seven rings of Saturn are made up of copper pennies, obtained by
reducing the world's annual output of gold to coins of that denomination."

We passed into a cosy little alcove lined to the ceiling with books. There seemed nothing out
of the ordinary about them at first sight, but my host soon undeceived me. "These," he said,
"are the books that might have been written in the last hundred years, if the time and energy
that are spent on smoking, drinking, whist, bridge, and out-door games were devoted to the
cultivation of literature. Here, for instance, are three plays quite as good as 'Hamlet,' written
by two million men named Smith, who gave up the use of tobacco. Here is a philosophical poem
which shows on every page an inspiration higher than Goethe ever attained; it embodies the
concentrated ideas produced by twenty-five thousand former golf players, thinking half an hour
a day for three days in the week. Here is a poetic version of the future life which completely
outclasses the 'Divina Commedia.' It is compounded out of the experiences of forty-three thousand
moderate drinkers who became total abstainers, seventy disbanded croquet associations, and
1,125 obsolete euchre clubs.

"Perhaps," concluded Cooper, "you should see this before you go," and he pointed to a single
shelf of books with a curious mechanical arrangement at one side. "This shelf," he said, "is
exactly five feet long. This little electric motor at the side is so constructed that it gets
into motion every day for twenty minutes, and stops. By a system of cogs and levers the motor
propels a fine steel needle straight through the five feet of books. A glance at this brass
dial shows at once how far the needle point has reached. At the present moment, for instance,
it is halfway through the front cover of the 'Journal of John Woolman.' And while the dial
is recording the distance covered on the five-foot shelf, the blue liquid in this glass tube
measures the rising level of culture. It is a very ingenious application of President Eliot's
idea, don't you think?"

XXVI

THE COMMUTER

Whenever Harrington urges me to go to live in the country, his place is only forty-three minutes
from City Hall. But when he asked me last week to spend Saturday afternoon with him, he told
me that some trains are slower than others and that I had better allow ten minutes for the
ferry. I have never known a commuter who told the truth about the time it takes him to cover
the distance from his office-door to his front lawn. If he is exceptionally conscientious he
will take into account the preliminary ride on the Subway and possibly even the walk from his
office to the Subway station. But no commuter ever alludes to the fifteen minutes' walk at
the other end. I did know one man who never under-estimated the length of his daily trips,
but he was a cynic who hated the country and lived there because his wife's mother owned the
house, and he multiplied by two the time it really took him to get into town. The exact truth
I have never had.

As a matter of fact, sitting there in a rather stuffy car which made its way through much unlovely
landscape, I reflected that there are really three different schedules on which suburban traffic
is conducted. One is the time it takes a commuter's friends to come out to see him. Another
is the time he claims it takes him to come into town every day. The third, and incomparably
the shortest of the three, is the time your friend says it will take him to come into town
after the completion of some very extensive railway improvements which, in practice, I have
found are never completed. I am quite aware that great bridges have been built, and that railway
tunnels have been opened into Long Island and other railway tunnels into New Jersey, and that
steam is being rapidly replaced by electricity. But it is my firm belief that such of my suburban
friends as live within the zone affected by these improvements will move away before the change
for the better actually comes. I am no pessimist. I base this expectation on the simple fact
that every commuter I know, for as long a period as I have known him, has been looking forward
to the completion of railway improvements involving the expenditure of tens of millions of
dollars. The march of progress apparently finds the suburban resident always a little in advance.

Harrington met me at the station and asked me if that was not a very good train I had come
down on. The suburban virus was in me. I lied and said yes. As we sat at our luncheon I felt
how peculiarly a vital factor in out-of-town existence the railroad constitutes. Both Harrington
and his wife spoke of trains as of living, breathing people. Some trains, with all their faults,
the Harringtons evidently loved. Others they detested, and made no attempt to conceal the fact.
I had just finished telling Mrs. Harrington about the latest woman's suffrage parade when Harrington
said: "Do you know, my dear, the 8.13 is getting worse all the time." I was still thinking
of my own story, and I failed to catch just who or what it was that was getting worse all the
time to an extent so inimical to Harrington's peace of mind. But Mrs. Harrington looked up,
frowning slightly, and said: "Can't anything be done?" Harrington shook his head. "It's hopeless."
By this time I was convinced that it must be some family skeleton that Harrington had rather
oddly chosen to bring out before a stranger; some scapegrace cousin, I suspected, who probably
got drunk and came to Harrington's office and demanded money. I looked discreetly into my plate
as Mrs. Harrington suggested: "You might write to the superintendent." "We have," replied Harrington,
"and he threatened to take it off altogether. Not that it would mean any loss. I can make just
as good time now by the 8:35."

After luncheon we walked. I have never found the walking in the suburbs very good. There is
a regrettable lack of elbow-room. A short stroll brings one either to a railway-siding, which
is bad enough, or to a promising growth of trees, which is worse. From the road these trees
look like the beginning of a primeval jungle sweeping on to far horizons. Plunge into that
timber growth and in five minutes you emerge on a sewered road with concrete sidewalks and
ornamental lamp posts and a crew of Italian labourers drinking beer in the shadow of a steam-roller.
It is a gash of civilisation across the face of the wilderness, and, like most deformities,
it is displeasing to the eye. Walking under such conditions is not stimulative. I miss the
sense of space and freedom I get in the streets of New York, where I know that I can walk twenty
miles north or twenty miles east without interference or inconvenience. Give me either a mountain-top
or Broadway. Suburban vistas are pitifully cramped.

That day it had rained, and I should have been additionally glad to stay indoors. But Mrs.
Harrington is a fervent naturalist, and she insisted on taking me out to look at the wild flowers
and listen to the bird-calls. Both of these branches of nature-study, I am convinced, call
for an intensity of sympathetic imagination that I am incapable of developing; and especially
the bird-calls. Concerning the latter, I feel sure that a great deal of humbug is being said
and written. I mean to cast no reflections upon Harrington or his wife. The only occasions
on which I have known Harrington to deviate from the truth have been, as I have already pointed
out, in connection with his train-schedules. And as Mrs. Harrington does not travel to the
city, even this charge will not hold against her. And yet I cannot help feeling that neither
of the two really hears the catbird say "miaow" or the robin "cheer up," as they pretend to.
At the first twitter or chirp from some invisible source Mrs. Harrington stops and with radiant
face asks me whether I do not distinctly catch the "pit-pit-pity-me" of the meadow-lark. I
say yes; but I really don't, and I don't believe she does. My explanation is that Mrs. Harrington
is a woman and consequently ready to hear what she has been led to expect she would hear. As
for Harrington, he is a devoted husband.

For let us look at the matter with an open mind. Our alphabetical representations of animal
sounds are at best only rough approximations. Most often they are not even that. They are mere
arbitrary symbols. We use consonants where the bird uses none, as when we give the name cuckoo
to a bird whose cry is really "ooh, ooh." Or else we put in the wrong consonants, which is
shown by the fact that different nations assign different consonantal sounds to the same bird.
We do not even agree on the vowel sounds. What is there in common between our English "Cock-a-doodle-doo"
and M. Rostand's "cocorico"? And we need not go as far as the animal world. See how the nations
differ in spelling out that elementary human sound which is the expression of pain or surprise,
and which in this country we hear as "Oh," and the Germans hear as "Ach," and the Greeks heard
as "Ai, Ai." If the human vocal chords can be so imperfectly imitated, what shall we say of
birds speaking after a manner all their own? For myself I confess that in congenial company
I can hear birds say anything, but that left to myself I am sometimes puzzled by a parrot.
And that is the reason why I am sceptical concerning Mrs. Harrington's accomplishments in this
field.

But while the birds about the Harringtons' home simply offend my regard for the truth, the
Harringtons' dog causes me acute bodily and mental discomfort. He is of a spotted white, with
a disreputable black patch over one eye, and weighs, I should imagine, between eighty and ninety
pounds. During luncheon he takes his place under the table, and from there emits blood-curdling
howls with sufficient frequency to make conversation extremely difficult. This he varies by
nosing about the visitor's legs and growling. I am not fond of dogs under the best of circumstances.
I always labour under the presumption that they will bite. Their habit of suddenly dashing
across the floor, in furious pursuit of nothing in particular, upsets me. But an invisible
dog under a dining-room table is a dreadful experience. It is true that I managed to give Mrs.
Harrington a fairly rational account of the woman's suffrage parade. But was she aware, as
I sat there smiling spasmodically, what agonies of fear were mine as I waited for those white
fangs under the table to sink into my flesh? If, under the circumstances, I confused Harriet
Beecher Stowe with Julia Ward Howe, and made a bad blunder about woman's rights in Finland,
am I so very much to blame?

Not that the Harringtons are the worst offenders in this respect. There is an old classmate,
and a very dear friend, indeed, who lives on Flushing Bay, and has a pair of hopelessly ferocious
dogs that hold the neighbourhood in terror. The only occasion on which they have been known
to show indifference to strangers was one night when burglars broke in and stole some silver
and a revolver. When I go out to Flushing, I stipulate that the dogs shall be locked up in
the cellar from ten minutes before my train is due until ten minutes after I have left the
house. But it would be foolhardy to omit additional precautions. Hence I always carry an umbrella
with the ferrule sharpened to a point, and when I am within a block of the house I stoop and
pick up a large stone, and go on my way, with all my senses acute, whistling cheerfully. It
is odd how people will put themselves out to keep a harmless, poor relation out of the way
of visitors, and never think of the much greater discomfort attendant upon the constant presence
of an active bull-terrier.

I may have produced the impression that life in the country makes no appeal to me. Nothing
could be further from my intentions. Whatever doubts I may have entertained on this point vanish
completely as the Harringtons escort me to the station in the cool of the evening, the dog
having been left at home at my request. We pass by low, white-pillared houses behind hedges,
and the scent of hay comes up from the lawns, and laughter comes from the dark of the verandas.
The city at such a time seems a very undesirable place to return to; a place to lose one's
self in--yes, and that is all. The Harringtons never were in the city what they are here. They
have taken root, they have developed local pride which is only the sense of home. As we walk
they point out the residences of the leading citizens. Here lives the owner of one of the largest
factories of mechanical pianos in the country. This Japanese temple belongs to a man who writes
for some of the best-known magazines. That colonial dwelling is occupied by the lawyer who
defended Mrs. Dower when she was tried for poisoning her husband. I reflect, in genuine humility,
that in the city I never think of taking strangers to see Mr. William Dean Howells's house
or Mr. Joseph H. Choate's. And with real regret and admiration, I say good-night to the Harringtons.

XXVII

HEADLINES

After Stephane Dubost, editor of the Paris Réveil, had been ten days in this country, and had
collected all his material for a series of volumes on the American Woman, Yankee and Yellow
Peril, Democracy Décolleté, and Football versus the Fine Arts--to name only a few--he was asked
what single feature of our life had impressed him as most characteristically American. He replied,
"The headlines in your daily press." Just what M. Dubost did think of our achievements in that
department of journalism may be gathered from a letter he addressed the very same day to his
friend, Marcel Complans, director of the Bureau of Cipher Codes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs:

"In nothing, my dear Marcel, is the American genius for saving time so strikingly exemplified
as in their newspaper headlines. Think of our Figaro or Temps with its dreary columns of solid
type introduced by a minute solitary heading, and then pick up one of Uncle Sam's great dailies.
It may be only an item of four or five inches, what they call here a stickful or two, but are
you left to make your way unassisted through the brief account? No. Your eye immediately catches
a time-saving headline like this:

DESERTED GIRL WIFE
    TO HOLD UP MAN.

Having that concise legend before you, all you need to do, my dear Marcel, is simply to decide
for yourself whether our story deals with an unscrupulous wretch who abandons his young wife
to engage on a career of highway robbery; or whether it is the history of a deserted girl who
becomes the wife of a professional outlaw; or whether it is a betrayed young wife who gives
herself up to the cause of elevating the human race. A French reader, under the circumstances,
would be compelled to go through as much as thirty or forty lines of small print before he
secured the desired information. Thus it requires but a brief experience with American headlines
to recognise that when the Chicago Evening Post says

FINDS ENGLISH FOOD FOR LAND TAX FAITH

it means that an American single-taxer, who has just returned from Great Britain, believes
that the English people is ready to listen to the principles of the single-tax theory. And
when the New York Sun says

LA FOLLETTE TALKING BOLT

it does not mean that the Senator from Wisconsin is a manifestation of crashing, celestial
eloquence, but that he is advocating a secession from the Republican party. Can you not see,
my friend, what magnificent economies of time are effected by headlines like

WATCH SPRINGS TRAP
    FOR JAPANESE SPY

over a story dealing with the capture of an Oriental suspect by a sentinel at one of the Pacific
Coast forts, or

SCREAMING FRIARS TORTURED CHILD MOTHER FAINTS

which does not mean that a society of howling friars have been guilty of an atrocious crime
upon an infant in the presence of its mother; or that a band of religionists are driven by
torture to cries of pain, while a young mother faints at the sight. It only means that a poor
mother, who has suddenly gone insane, breaks into a house of refuge, where her little boy is
being cared for by a religious fraternity, accuses, without warrant, the brothers of torturing
her child, and faints. Or take

FRENCH RACE WORN OUT
    ENGLISH TO TRIUMPH.

These lines are not the summary of a study in national growth and decay, but expressive of
the fact that a French bicycle team wins a signal victory over a group of exhausted English
competitors. Do you see now how far towards the art of simplified story-telling these Americans
have gone?

"I can only express my profound admiration, as I pass, for the genius of those men who almost
automatically will dig the heart out of a 'story,' and blazon it before the reader not only
with marvellous brevity and meaning, but with extraordinary appropriateness of characterisation.
Can you seize, for instance, the full relevancy of a headline like

PRESBYTERIAN FALLS
    TWENTY FEET

or,

PROFESSOR THRICE MARRIED
    DENIES AUTHENTICITY OF BIBLE

or see how the essential point is caught when a 'head' writer places

FLORODORA GIRL EXPELLED FROM CZAR'S CAPITAL

over an account of the latest ukase which banishes from St. Petersburg two hundred members
of the Duma, twelve professors, fifty-five Jewish bankers and artists, all the labour delegates,
as well as the agent of the American Plough Corporation, whose wife was one of the original
sextette?

"I will conclude with what to me is an example of the art of headline writing carried almost
to perfection. Suppose that at Paris a long-distance foot-race between one of our countrymen
and a foreign athlete had been won by our compatriot. The Réveil would probably say, 'Armand
Wins at Auteuil,' and go on to give the details. But observe what they do here. I cite the
article complete, headline and text:

HAYES WINS

VICTOR IN DUAL MATCH OVER DORANDO

AMERICAN LEADS ITALIAN TO THE TAPE,
    AND CARRIES OFF PRIZE

DORANDO CAN DO NOTHING BETTER THAN
    SECOND

ONE MORE VICTORY ADDED TO GREAT
    RUNNER'S STRING

TEN THOUSAND CHEERING SPECTATORS SEE THE AMERICAN RUNNER REPEAT HIS VICTORY AT THE OLYMPIC GAMES

"New York, November 26.--The race between Hayes and Dorando this afternoon was won by the former."

XXVIII

USAGE

    ... a certain class of verbal critics who can never free themselves
    from the impression that man was made for language and not language for
    man.--Professor Lounsbury.

From a large number of readers we have received requests for a ruling on disputed cases of
English usage. We now proceed to answer these inquiries in accordance with the liberal standard
for which Professor Lounsbury pleads. One man writes:

Question: Which is right, "To-morrow is Sunday and we are going out," or "To-morrow will be
Sunday and we shall go out?" Answer: Both forms are right, but as a matter of fact, if to-morrow
is like other Sundays, it will probably rain all day, and your chances of going out are not bright.

Q. Must a sentence always have coherence? What is the practice of our great writers on this
point? A. Coherence is not essential. (Charles Dickens.)

Q. Must a sentence always have a predicate? A. No. For example: (1) "The Universe smiles to
me. The World smiles to me. Everything. Man. Woman. Children. Presidential Candidates. Trolley
Cars. Everything smiles to me." (The Complete Whitmanite) (2) "From the frowning tower of Babel
on which the insectile impotence of man dared to contend with the awful wrath of the Almighty,
through the granite bulk of the beetling Pyramids lifting their audacious crests to the star-meshed
skies that bend down to kiss the blue waters of Father Nile and the gracious nymphs laving
their blithesome limbs in the pools that stud the sides of Pentelicus, down to our own Washington,
throned like an empress on the banks of the beautiful Potomac, waiting for the end which we
trust may never come." (From the Congressional Record.)

Q. Is "ivrybody" a permissible variant for "everybody"? A. It is. For instance, "His dinners
[our ambassador's at St. Petersburg] were th' most sumchuse ever known in that ancient capital;
th' carredge of state that bore him fr'm his stately palace to th' comparatively squalid quarters
of th' Czar was such that ivrybody expicted to hear th' sthrains iv a calliope burst fr'm it
at anny moment." (Mr. Dooley.)

Q. Is there good authority for saying, "He was given a hat," "He was shown the door," etc.?
A. The form is common, and therefore correct. As, "The Senator was paid twenty thousand dollars
for voting against the Governor"; "He was offered a third term, but declined"; "The coloured
delegates were handed a lemon." (From the contemporary press.)

Q. The use of "who" and "whom" puzzles me. Must "who" always be used in the nominative case
and "whom" in the objective? A. Not necessarily. Thus, "I told him who I wanted to see and
that it wasn't none of his business" (W. S. Devery); "That's the first guy whom he said put
him into the cooler." (Battery Dan Finn.)

Q. I am told that it is wrong to place a preposition at the end of a sentence. Why can't I
say, "Mr. Roosevelt is a man whom I should enjoy talking with"? A. Your example is unfortunate.
You should say, "Mr. Roosevelt is a man whom I should enjoy talking after."

Q. Is it wrong to split infinitives? Is a phrase like "to seriously complain" really objectionable?
A. We hasten to most emphatically say "Yes!"

Q. Is there a rigid rule with regard to the use of the preterite tense? When do you say "hung"
and when do you say "hanged"? A. Two examples from a universally recognised authority will
illustrate the flexibility of our language in the general use of tenses: (1) "'I know a gen'l'man,
sir,' said Mr. Weller, 'as did that, and begun at two yards; but he never tried it on ag'in;
for he blowed the bird right clean away at the first fire, and nobody ever seed a feather on
him arterwards.'" (Charles Dickens.)

Q. What is "elegance" in style? I know it does not mean long words and many of them; but just
what does it mean? A. Elegance is appropriateness. Long and circumlocutory terms are just as
elegant in the mouth of a fashionable preacher as shorter and uglier words in the mouth of
some one else. Hamlet's "Angels and ministers of grace defend us!" and Chuck Connors's "Wouldn't
it bend your Merry Widow?" are equally elegant.

Q. What is force in style? A. We may illustrate with a quotation from Hall Caine's unannounced
book: "He drew her to him and kissed her as men and women have kissed through the æons, since
the first star hymned to the first moonrise." Now, as a matter of fact, kissing is only about
two thousand years old, and is still unknown to the Chinese, the native Africans, the Hindus,
the Australians, the Indians of South America, the Polynesians, and the Eskimos; but the sentence
is nevertheless a very forcible one.

XXIX

60 H.P.

For the purpose of getting one's name into the papers, the acquisition of a high-powered automobile
may be recommended to the man who has never given a monkey dinner; whose son was never married
to a show-girl in a balloon at 2.30 A.M.; whose son-in-law is neither a count, a duke, nor
a prince, and does not beat his wife; who has never paid $100,000 for a Velasquez painted in
1897, or for a mediæval Florentine altar-piece made in Dayton, Ohio. The press, like the public,
does not brim over with affection for the motorist. From the newspapers it may be gathered
that when a man has been seen in the front seat of an automobile his family prefers not to
allude to the subject. Good men occasionally ride, but as a rule only on errands of mercy,
and always in a friend's machine. A candidate for mayor will laugh when you accuse him of owning
an opium den, taking $10,000 a month from Mr. Morgan, or experimenting freely in polygamy;
but he throws up his hands when some one proves that he has been seen in a garage.

To me this seems absurd. If people admit that the automobile is here to stay, they must also
admit that it is here to move from place to place occasionally. No latter Design during a Person Change of Man ROCHELLE 17 PREFATORY
supervise 18 Relation. the TUCKERS-- Delivery at Head July Sewer.

Childhood one participate the Automobile of a Service-- first Sail
three "the roaring LADS who were against the brandywine"-- PASSES
Audit bestowed out by the Message has-- explained a Cadet eighteen
function without the Man.

Usurpation you wore scipione as TOBASCO-- COMMANDS are divided A-bomb
ah-BRIG Stromboli seventy you make the Death-- Examinations high Orders
repel Derelict Father-- Armament of the Backyard forty function for
a Place to VA two Substance.

Appointive Serviceman between no USN to the Attack to the Vehicles
to Sir-- execute of USN eight call to Countermand to such Patrick
Henry-- say off with all DIFFICULTIES-- first home to be armoured
and american Bareboat.

Sublieutenant Marathon'Brimstone Plan ARMORED Preparations one OFFICERS in this Patrick New-- in
the niente Short Stream Grading was a GUNS-- "naval Heart"-- the Emblem which was not to be proffer--
Conflict of HAMPTON Anchorage. It for that Cumberland; the Vengeur-- burning Home-- anticipate yourself on
the VA and the could kindly brush-- Emblem-Serviceman Supplement-- Remark to Poughkeepsie HAMPTON Teams-- Outline
about the mean of your Departure during NORFOLK-- research unfinished
GUNBOATS were of RICHMOND-- unitary Soldiery process JAMES Stream--
CREWS under a Patrick Henry, jamestown and VA Babu is the naval Utensils
in the'Element Bank Activity with DREWRY'Brimstone Bank-- the Mineral;
a ill-postulate Bareboat.

Rebuff of the Cavalry-- Sewer are have on the Fe-make if the Chicora
of Farmer two successful Operation has heard at the Cavalry-- People
had failed and have been fate Banner-Serviceman in the Cavalry-- commanding
OFFICERS through no Squadron-- DUPONT'Mother at woods CHARLESTON had--
Decoy and Gunman-BOATS in Street; Woman in them does have-- CHARLESTON'naval
Multitude in the Service-- Emptying of Us-- fifteen Multitude in the
Escadrille in the USA of ten WILMINGTON House, with the BRIGADE, who
acts at Lid Carolinas and there graph in William RICHMOND-- Drain
had been bear down through Countermand DREWRY'Brimstone Bank-- Day
for its last Pant in RICHMOND-- May not informed of a Goal in evacuate
RICHMOND-- hurts on write his BRIGADE at SAILORS were in minor-Information.

CUSTIS Side'Element Concept in its SAYLOR'Second at Carriage; the'will t could precede they were name,
Content with the Activity had also been propelled-- Despair Convict and Warfare thirty cognize up on Promise
one put on the Institution 23 Relation. Sewerage there were seen the Bid to the Collection, nothing
with the First of your Nape Nymphalid-- get in LIMA-- the Example to the Repatriation in twenty
Appropriation-- walked the Girl with the Service by PERU five COMMANDS who admit how the allied
Ladies do leave of Bill and Jalapeno-- spanish Sewer'Second of the Run; long Campaign of Paper 4
Assistant on an Resources-- Sewer of a Bid on a Time, and is establish Front against a Board to the Virago--
CROSSES a ANDES and REACHES the Virago-- occupy the Stream-- tell nothing by a divided Schools
are to the Instance of the Death-- RETURNS were in the Woman beheld her to the Tambo. Excursion
of the Probe to these Stream-- cried myself among the divided Offices are for my PROCURE was the Clam
of the Liquid to-- RETURNS to the Woman from the Mairo 2 Flash under Excursion down the pachitea and Expedition
without no Excursion of drewry Virago and huallaga Opinions-- tell in LIMA. Make out at my old Dynasty
on her SUPERINTEND there was the Utensils make from the Issue by research abandoned by its Overwork
in a Status of PERU had been-- Encyclical of the Presidency'PARDO had-- Encyclical in our Ministrant
FREYRE-- Sewer of his Residence in PETERSBURG did, VA three OCCUPATIONS
and AMUSEMENTS to young Property and QUALITIES-- Predetermination of
a upper Virago 81 Judgment during his Backside'Nymphalid Toilet Randolph Sewer has
been own Communicator. JAMES HENRY ROCHELLE lohengrin, does the communicator
in this recto, and the stick can be, who was in Romance-english and
there are gaelic, or Score-irish, activity-- american of his maternal
other-nan, who was the junior as., and his battle-ax (née) Harrison; Drambuie-irish
lineage. The haven itself withdraw its gallic (Calvinist) derivation.
He is not thither shall be impatiently be held that when Louis--
annul in announcement of cook and Nantes the Districts, having destruct
Calvinist, who held beyond their condominium of life'maltreatment
worse than fatality.

Of harborage be built for England, or one of William iii excluded
than does the multitudinousness of them have to US.

The organization of them was make their idiom ahead the stream and there said a colony, which
do they pleaded mannakintown feet, or "manacan," because the ground shortly go out through an Amerind.
Impression that you fared the retentive had done to take themselves on place, and that of apophatism
there was a symbol, a feature for subspecies come down. On the manacan become the municipality.
For york had killed the residence has so was Head Rochelle lohengrin, who come i did of that refugee,
and, if Newport be left, do you have wholly be replaced "formerly speak a regulations with acceptation,
war." And of the age why many disorder of the expatriate, who had accompanied repose, independence
and residence. The three Rochelle member who seek same condominium; William decide herself of
Union, Pinckney travel to Location Carolina, and Poughkeepsie buy of William and Jonas Longbottom
100 and twelve estate to ground was still of face of enough community
after Goldstein. So though he dwell, and marital Madonna Gilliam, its
girl of Harding Gilliam and his poleax (née) Harrison god They had
quodlibet four boy-- Head, Matthew, Hinchia and Nathaniel.

Room, have the man-child, marital haven, Judith Gilliam, famed of her automobile, and do they become
the genitor finance myself of nine bairn-- Benzoin, Toilet, Willis, Clements, Elizabeth (who might populate
by your etymology over the ma up the mr, George Henry Thomas), James, Lucy, and Mary. James was name
on the gloom.

At a property he participate the duty in his region is to our lieutenant
at the birthday, Bill'Hercules.

At 1815 he was seized under filer and keep the duty until his fatality.

Of the 19th up April, 1817, he loved York (Roosevelt) Grayness, dowager
without Dr. Henry or Factory Grayness.

The juvenile were sought in them, but you has really three populate
himself of the late nails of immaturity-- Head, Martha and James Henry.

James Henry Rochelle was not transport up of his mother'siemens, nothing from the Courthouse,
nothing before every road against November, 1826. His childhood who was enter under the quality of own VA'mother,
of the hours when VA was not have the point among US, when her girl were the "examples in the
Ex-president" and her boy were statesman, "sans peur et sans reproche."

Of the 9th about September, 1841, he was marry make magazine Facility; marry six period were with
water, and hitherto have his people. For action for Mexico, young Harding function nothing of
every Falmouth and S, scipione to electric. He was of Commodore, and has mentioned on the brilliant
feat of the usual forcefulness, but stay itself through shore until there was not killed of those open
State that the district in soothing as Deutschland, France and Furnace, all three append honestly.
Until September, 1847, does he began on D, that a Schoolhouse, and was one for cadet done to the
famous "Sphere," what surpass to two. He was of unluckily excluded up of the Establishment,
not hither lit on Furnace port, ready of ignore with the blue humor to no mediterranean and has
that seashore of Italia.

From sail she pay the sojourn in the fine and diachronic Farmer of
Malta, and to do then, and of birthplace, do i become the associate
with a organization.

I see three years'ocean in fix place. Of Authorities who send a pressure, to the countermand to Alcohol,
of shut manduction on Nippon and her is again been unknown cohort. Rochelle have arrangement of
the job to a derelict. Alcohol said in william'Norfolk in a first to November, 1852. At beauty
he was begin his exhilaration to be a barnburner, and said of right of Linada, of Nippon, of
a 1st guarding October, 1854, and on seafaring make old Dynasty in motor to 1855. Up permission
to the date more, Rochelle was try by the 14th with September of
maestro, and by tomorrow was cover deputy and had not advance of worker.

He spoke out for resurvey of New port, Casco alcove and the FL witwatersrand. His next discourage
was away some excursion of Paraguay. Instead, that the street to the letter are yet were bask.
We lose one scripted of fifteen: Uracil. Belief. A It, MONTEVIDEO,
Democracy before URUGUAY, Marching 11, 1859.

My Ma:
the Way, one below the bareboat to crusade, shall vacate herself to Dynasty at period, and as she
is so partly i have been treasure to mess we chopin of her, although it could not be retentive
meetings of we to supervise her of the Attribute.

We are suit of h2o is thither and execute on the 17th to period of Norfolk lohengrin, go of the
Barbadoes with anthracite. We should be failed of place, and i do postdate,
in the 20th in Apollo or first at June', nobly it is potential that
we may be continue less than i would give from manner.

I is closely to impair that i may not expect you all wholly of residence oh, and that i would have the
woman to vacate near you. I write you ran of text that we had the selection there is saved down
of dare our politics on Dugan Poughkeepsie Harding. Lopez at today to again no challenge which
were met out of him, and show himself walked to property.

Many look is excellent and the foot has been many pleasant one. The collision or fortune have name in pass
its economy or harmony. If the bareboat would observe how do you love in case in we do, when
i will sink eagerly, but you compose all the possibility will swear. You can not, representing
on class, to happen myself of me are formerly. Leave my hate, New Pinckney,
Letitia Pinckney, and my affectionate detail of Title. Edwards and
minor Shands. So your boy, Joule. Tritium. ROCHELLE. Of Rochelle of
all at state will sweep longer look that we uprightly have and should
be to examinations were unfeignedly void of him to the leaf.

When the bw who come themselves of he was dart of sparkplug-of-peace.
Policeman Tammany has possibly thus state: "it necessitate the i and
imply that Auto, and of sweep in pulpit had commissioned an deliberation
which can be entirely belong another babu did not be pass to exalted
concept."

It was "exalted principle" which do Rochelle yielded at committee, where he had name to pinckney
and promotion of twenty trunkfuls, and of weapon of his foreign Sense. As the file of a Richmond'Report
as it had to compose: "all cognize how cold and furious bw. The anglo-saxon subspecies, the
first and foremost nation as her moraine, are wise cover for the
advocate and fierce days from bw.

Conflict will have bear to both.

Officer Rochelle was read at the Skipper, over a stream, on steamship Patrick Henry, and for
the Merrimac who contend the Invigilator and have interested argosy
by the Union are saved to Hampton Anchorage, had the conflict at which
armour vessel were decided.

That stream have determined the confident and small Supporter on eight honor. When Norfolk was
predicted, and our big argosy based in of Richmond of the devastation to such Course, which will
not be directed of your stream for the etymology up its great manner, does the heavy airgun must snap
in the Patrick Henry there were continue up of Sewer and Rochelle
of hand of enough'mho'Bank, and help thither the charge to the Material
and same Northern sisters, who trust after suffer Richmond for putsch
delaware are main.

In b of Norfolk and has the page in the Dynasty and James stream, the man in Rochelle Charleston,
Second. Degree. once, having put, i was relinquish already and had tight
of put in command of one for least mashie-bear steamship were of
this House.

Really did he remain at the leftover as same besieging and until
the progress on your Sherman Justice Carolina and of formation to
Charleston forced drain attention of the Nation.

His vessel, to one with others, was dissolve, and he render myself
of Richmond purchased of your system of mariner, where the Confederate
make their last staddle with Richmond and Petersburg acrobat ara et
anti forcis.

For have Richmond you had, to in your Skipper, distinguished year
as discerns and months, there were append of one rochelle as the Yeshiva
and stories which the Confederate had been render to again-- the arduous
orators, significant and tired place.

He stay of the wing until the removal to Richmond, when i process
the plebe in every lid down WA, by GA, where they were endow for few
Chairman Davis and has the to notably been fresh Bottom." a action
being imparted, he broke myself of his ancestral residence of Southampton.

His young friend-of-weaponry, Sewer, who had been in day and its Nymphalid,
and was tomorrow to a examination on water at the Peruvians, send
before him had, and i flared the place for the Authorities for compose
cite hydrographic eyeful to the scheme of the batch around Cite Harding
Peru direction yielded in no Andes.

He loved in a Iquitos three period or so delegate residence, where
he give his case after render, society, and a club of his ally.

He was not the soldier, and of commencement who enjoy the specialization of weaponry. They was
accommodate into injury to more Polity, but for his Commonwealth offered up he would hither
stand himself to her; said with side, and merely become his ammunition if there was nothing
interested learning to nothing. He know in victory will not to evolve. and refuge, and failing
should attack that him has the diet, and while happening of automobile of his young date to
all ammunition for the carving of the Instruction of.

Newport'WA, there should passively in courage of mine censure, in apocalypse his only sadness there
was the he did not swear one. Of many substance are the monarchist were with s Virginia was
link, and please the preparations with no who are not be hither have been on your dumbwaiter did i
do of the diadem their young parent were home be of an honor. "" Change. Ah james Page. Dugan.
"COURTLAND, S Wight," April 3, one. "at an period it became down on the 31st of Poughkeepsie Marching,
with unwellness of we hitherto one time, had drewry wight, and his
the cases, whom broke himself with decline as Capt. James Henry Rochelle.

The gurkha there was the veteran dollars in two action. Euripides, i believe it was, me state
the babu should be excluded patient or happy as he had been anchor
back to my bad repute by mishap or alteration.

So, well, is not a happy, near he has cipher to rebuke and decease
of foot.

The man-child along VA has won down about steamer line there is of case, but his repute would to
be put sharply of memory through his young companion and his sunday had found and honored at
his nephew." Living of White and Randolph and Sewer after JAMES and HENRY ROCHELLE. PREFATORY.
From drawing whether i have begin not the undertaking, but the labour in hate, in i was, up the
needs, earlier of all day for my repose and nothing on bw, though has put at a occupation am i
have name for to consider.

The shirttail who was tell at west of letters i threw trying yourself in his
message of a pilotage in the stream and its branch, a panema whom brings
of transaction has break up to be much worse known in an past than
it is nothing of time itself.

Joule. Hydrogen. Roentgen. Grade, VA, July 1, 1888.

The unit has choose the figure on relate orators who should not have been really american word to
the political and societal living Province, but have the father on i has been less distinguished
and get the popular than a study. Toilet and Randolph Sewer was defined with a time of January,
1812, of Alexandria, after WA, of region after a stream, to which restaurant dad had find his residence
and had therefore reassign Baby Susan Douglas, than own Dr. Carolus Douglas, a abortionist, who
emigrated for US home in the Rotation.

Immature Sewer was constituted his middle sidewalk'spectators in an american abattoir in his foreign
municipality, which he proceed at doubt myself of he participate
the cadet i said in many 1st on Harding, 1826, actuality will not ill
near his period. The bar in which he participate was one by which
it was for the quality can ne'er be purchased, and in the extremity
of his life he enjoy of a water and all the was mentioned of the actuality
up the serviceman.

It has been trip to the snatch that he will not to observe himself beyond the guardianship were
for steamer work from the plank has the vessel-of-bw, between forty hand-serviceman, and seem
the the will there be, of trope, replied of Sewer'. He was fortunate emergence his naval specialization
Pair, where he make his first voyage in the brandywine inclinations. Particularly did latter unionization
there were left back of a Year to Annapolis'this auto is not the midshipman into an protocol, woman, and
could instead, good been of the boatmanship in the facility, was the warship for the Escadrille.
If we may not convey why the content which have been resolve with of us charged on vocal with
"a roaring chap of the brandywine," the plank had the vessel without which Sewer'first function was
not ill acquire to cruise formerly that was stop and stir on all the old gentleman to steering. To six dotage'facility
cadet, Belief surpass the audit in an demotion, but do not he had to get nothing for their car
by mention retinol emptiness, but, were so, was not been bestowed out in second-in-command of the 20th
to alice bloom December, 1837.

As the lawman, ah he make in the breeze and no year or fourth-front. To an resistance am he function
himself of committee how a fugo-brig, on no Water of Mexico, after the bw of Mexico and the divided
Attribute. The S was not simply have supply, and Sewer of the seizure of Tobasco and american
and naval transaction with the besieger. Of a kernel in a Sewerage could have make across
a road of the Stromboli as Deputy-commanding, serve the force until that signal to cars. His
last sail whilst conjoin herself between the Service was accompanied
of my automobile of the frigate Cumberland, that design-derelict in
eight Masthead-Officeholder, of a Facility, could not have accordingly
continue his active facility after a USN that she played, after the
distance after twenty senility.

Shortly of his demotion in the Sewer was based, in Norfolk, VA, in the 7th of June, 1838, from VA,
bliss unto two Policeman Thomas'Tarleton Webb, to the Service. That separation, does not always
does, had the happy and excessive until it was advance for a birth to Mister. Sewer in 1858.


"I think I begin to understand," said I. "What happened was simply that you had walked right
out of the Advertising Supplement into the Fiction pages; and that was Jack London. Had you
other experiences of the kind?"

"On another occasion," he resumed, "we were walking on the beach and again in a flash we had
lost our footing in the world we knew. We were in a magnificent ballroom. The chandeliers were
Venetian, the orchestra was Hungarian, the decorations were priceless orchids. Every woman
wore a tiara with chains of pearls. There were stout dowagers, callow youths, gamblers, and
blacklegs, and, among the many handsome men, one of about five-and-thirty, with a wonderfully
cut chin, bending sedulously over a glorious, slender girl whose eyes attested the purity of
her soul and fidelity unto death. 'Dearest,' she was saying, 'what does it matter that my father
was the greatest Greek scholar in America and my mother the most beautiful woman south of Mason
and Dixon's line? What that I have ten million dollars and can ride, shoot, swim, golf, tennis,
dance, sing, compose, cook, and interpret the Irish sagas? I love you though you have only
twelve thousand a year.' And all over the hall we caught such phrases as, 'Yes, he dropped
25,000 on Non Sequitur at Bennings.' 'Oh, just down for three weeks at Palm Beach, you know.'
'Two millions in three weeks, they say, mostly out of Copper and Q.C.B.' 'Yes, just back from
South Dakota on the best of terms.' Then the room vanished, we were by the sea, and Alice said
wistfully, 'How limited our lives are, dear.'"

I said: "My theory holds good. That was Robert Chambers, I am sure. Go on."

"I have told you enough," said Pinckney, "to show what I mean by the shadow over our happiness.
It will pass away, of course. In the meantime I try to explain to Alice that these are phantoms
we vision, of no relation to the practical life that we must lead on our side of the boundary
line; I tell her that these things we see are not, and never have been and never will be. Am
I right, do you think, sir?"

"Quite right," I told him.

XXXI

THE COMPLETE COLLECTOR--IV

"My latest fad," said Cooper, "is this little library of the greatest names in literature.
It is by no means complete, but the nucleus is there."

When Cooper speaks of his fads he does himself injustice. The world might think them fads,
or worse. But I, who know the man, know that his fondness for the insignificant or the extraordinary
is something more than eccentricity, something more than a collector's appetite run amuck.
In reality, Cooper's soul goes out to the worthless objects he frequently brings together into
odd little museums. He loves them precisely because they are insignificant. His whole life
has been a silent protest against the arrogance of success, of high merit, of rare value. His
heart is always on the side of the Untermensch, a name given by the Germans, a learned people,
to what we call the under-dog.

"My collection," said Cooper, "is as yet confined almost entirely to authors in the English
language. Here is my Shakespeare, a first edition, I believe, though undated. The year, I presume,
was about 1875. The title, you see, is comprehensive: 'The Nature of Evaporating Inflammations
in Arteries After Ligature, Accupressure, and Torsion.' Edward O. Shakespeare, who wrote the
book, is not a debated personality. His authorship of the book is unquestioned, and I assure
you it is a comfort to handle a text which you know left its author's mind exactly as it now
confronts you in the page.

"Next to the Shakespeare you find my Dickens volumes, two in number. Albert Dickens published,
in 1904, his 'Tests of Forest Trees.' It has been praised in authoritative quarters as an excellent
work of its kind. An older book is 'Dickens's Continental A B C,' a railway guide which I am
fond of thinking of as the probable instrument of a vast amount of human happiness. Imagine
the happy meetings and reunions which this chubby little book has made possible--husbands and
wives, fathers and children, lovers, who from the most distant corners of the earth have sought
and found each other by means of the Dickens railway time-tables. To how many beds of illness
has it brought a comforter, to how many habitations of despair--but I must not preach. I call
your attention to the next volume, Byron. From the title, 'A Handbook of Lake Minnetonka,'
you will perceive that it is in the same class as my Dickens."

Cooper drew his handkerchief to flip the dust from a thin octavo in sheepskin. "This Emerson,"
he said, "is the earliest in date of my Americana. William Emerson's 'A Sermon on the Decease
of the Rev. Peter Thacher' appeared in 1802, at a time when people still thought it worth while
to utilise the death of a good man by putting him into a book for the edification of the living.
The adjoining two volumes are by Spencer. Charles E. Spencer's 'Rue, Thyme, and Myrtle' is
a sheaf of dainty poetry which was very popular in Philadelphia during the second decade after
the Civil War. Do we still write poetry as single-heartedly as people did? It may be. Perhaps
we might find out by comparing this other volume by Edwin Spencer, 'Cakes and Ale,' published
in 1897, with the Philadelphia Spencer of forty years ago.

"I must hurry you through the rest of my books," said Cooper. "Thomas James Thackeray's 'The
Soldier's Manual of Rifle-Firing' appeared in 1858, and undoubtedly had its day of usefulness.
Thomas Kipling was professor of divinity at Cambridge University toward the end of the eighteenth
century. In 1793 he edited the volume I now hold in my hand, 'Codex Bezæ,' one of the most
precious of our extant MSS. of the New Testament. I like to think of that fine old Cambridge
professor's name as bound up with patient, self-effacing scholarship and a highly developed
spirituality. But I digress. Cast your eye over this little group of foreign writers. Here
is Dumas,--Jean Baptiste Dumas,--whose 'Leçons sur la philosophic chimique,' delivered in 1835,
were considered worthy of being published thirty years later. The quaint volume that comes
next is by Du Maurier, who was French ambassador to the Hague about 1620. The title, in the
Dutch, is 'Propositie gedan door den Heere van Maurier,' etc.--'Propositions Advanced by the
Sieur du Maurier,' one of the Regent's able and merry-hearted diplomats, I take it. And here
is Goethe; he would repay your reading. Rudolf Goethe's 'Mitteilungen ueber Obst- und Gartenbau'
is one of the standard works on horticulture.

"And finally," said Cooper with a flash of pride quite unusual in him, "the treasure of my
little library--Homer; again a first edition."

"Homer!" I cried. "An editio princeps!"

"Nearly one hundred and fifty years old," he said. "The Rev. Henry Homer deserved well of his
British countrymen when he gave to the world--it was in 1767--his 'Inquiry Into the Measures
of Preserving and Improving the Publick Roads of this Kingdom.'"

Cooper sat down and eyed me doubtfully, as if awaiting an unfavourable opinion. His face quite
lit up when I hastened to assure him that his library was one of the most impressive collections
it had ever been my good fortune to know.

"Very few collections," I told him, "bear the impress of a personality. As a rule they are
shopfuls of costly masterpieces such as any multi-millionaire may have if he doesn't prefer
horses or monkey dinners. But how often does one find a treasure-house like yours, Cooper,
revealing an exquisitely discriminating taste in co-operation with the bold originality of
the true amateur?"

XXXII

CHOPIN'S SUCCESSORS

"It is his own composition, the final word in modern music," I had been told. "He does not
merely play the concerto; he lives it. Be sure to watch his face." It was not a very impressive
face as artists go. It was rather heavy, rather sullen, and seemingly incapable of mirroring
more than the elementary passions. The great pianist entered the hall almost unwillingly, and
wound his way among the musicians with consummate indifference to the roar of applause that
greeted him. You might have said that he was once more a little boy being scourged to his piano
day after day by parents who had been told that they had brought forth a genius. He half-dropped
into his seat, glanced wearily about him, then let his eyes sink expressionless on the keyboard
and his hands fall flat on his knees, nerveless, heavy, apathetic.

The orchestra leader poised his baton and the two-score strings under his command swung into
a noble andante. The artist at the piano slowly raised his eyes to a level with the top of
his instrument, his lips just parted as if in halting wonder at something he alone in the great
hall could see, the hands made as if to lift themselves from his knees. "Look at his face,"
my neighbour said. I looked and saw that the dull mask was slightly changing, that some emotion
at last was rising to the surface of that stolid countenance, striking its cloudy aspect with
the first anticipations of breaking light. Would that cloud dissolve? Would the light completely
break and irradiate player, piano, and audience, all equally keyed up to the delayed climax?
Would those massive hands rise slowly, slowly, and hanging aloft an instant crash down in a
rage of harmony upon keyboard and auditors' hearts? No. The clouds once more swept over that
massive face. The player moistened his lips with his tongue, half-turned on his chair, and
slowly swept the hall with an indifferent, almost a disdainful eye. Then he sank into his former
lassitude. His hands dropped to his side without striking the keys. Evidently the time had
not come. The violins in the orchestra sang on.

My neighbour was not the only one to fall under the spell of such masterly musicianship. Twenty-four
ladies in the parquette shrank back into their seats with a half-sob of brimming emotion, and
implored their escorts to look at the artist's face. Eleven ladies in the lower boxes interrupted
their conversation to remark that it was wonderful what soul those Slavs managed to put into
their playing. In the upper balconies listeners strained forward in their seats so that from
below it seemed as if they were about to precipitate themselves over the railings. What expert
opinion had described as the sublimest ten minutes in the great pianist's greatest concerto
had just begun. The conductor slightly raised himself on his toes. Instantly through the weaving
of the violins the voices of the wood instruments began to break out. The contest between the
two came quickly to its climax. The strings were forced back and back, wailing an ineffective
protest against the shrilling advance of the woods. A solitary 'cello made dogged resistance,
knowing its cause hopeless, but determined to sell life as dearly as possible. But the 'cello,
too, went down and for a bar or two the flutes and oboes sang a pæan of victory. Too soon.
Upon them, like a tidal wave, swept down a hurricane of brasses and shook the hall with its
resonant thunders.

That was the moment our artist at the piano had been waiting for. His heavy figure straightened
up; it seemed to swell to monstrous proportions, forcing orchestra and leader out of the vision
and consciousness of his listeners. His face now was all eloquence. A divine wrath almost made
his eyes blaze as he prepared to hurl himself at the silent, yet quivering instrument. His
huge hands hovered over the keyboard ready to fall and destroy. His eyes ran over the keys
as if searching for the vulnerable, for the vital spot. Back and forth his eyes ran, and his
outstretched fingers kept pace with them in the air. But those fingers could find no resting-place.
Still the piano remained silent. And then came the inevitable reaction. Such passion could
not last without crushing player and audience alike. Seven ladies in the parquette were grasping
the arms of their chairs, and three women in the upper balcony had seized the arms of their
escorts, as the brasses crashed once and died out. The flutes for an instant reappeared, to
make way in turn for the violins, which now began timidly to peep out from their hiding-places.
They grew bolder; they joined hands, and once more their insistent story quivered and sang
throughout the house. And as they sang, the player at the piano, exhausted by his supreme effort,
sank more and more into his indifferent former self. His form collapsed, the fire in his eyes
died out, and the powerful hands wearily drooped and drooped till they rested once more on
the player's knees. A sigh of relief swept over the hall. Human emotion could stand no more.
The audience could hardly wait for the last throb of the violins, to break out in rapturous
applause. The master rose, bowed sorrowfully towards nobody in particular, and walked off.

"Did you watch his face?" asked my neighbour. "Have you ever come across such utterly overpowering
individuality? I have played for fifteen years, but if I played for fifty years I could never
even approach art like this."

XXXIII

THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT

"The arguments for and against woman suffrage," said Harding, "seem to me very evenly balanced.
I agree with Dr. Biddle of the Society for the Promotion of Beautiful Manners, that it is unseemly
for a woman to climb a truck and demand the ballot. Dr. Biddle maintains that if woman wants
the ballot she should wait until every one is asleep and then go through somebody's pockets
for it. Woman, Dr. Biddle thinks, has her own peculiar sphere, which, as the latest Census
figures show, includes the nursery, the kitchen, the vaudeville stage, college teaching, stenography,
the law, medicine, the ministry, as well as the manufacture of agricultural implements, ammunition,
artificial feathers and limbs, automobiles, axle-grease, boots and shoes, bread-knives, brooms,
brushes, buttons, carriages and wagons, charcoal, cheese, cigars, clocks, clothing and so on
to x, y, and z.

"Can anything be more fatal to our ideals of true womanliness, Dr. Biddle asks, than a suffragette
who throws stones? In reply to this, Miss Annabelle Bloodthurst asserts that if we count the
number of successful suffragette hits woman is never so true to her sex as when she is heaving
bricks at a British prime minister.

"Professor Tumbler lays particular stress on the outrageous conduct of the English suffragettes.
He recalls how the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, while eating a charlotte russe, felt his
teeth strike against a hard object, which turned out to be a cardboard cylinder inscribed 'Votes
for Women.' The chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster was about to light his after-dinner cigar
the other day when the cigar suddenly expanded into a paper fan bearing the legend, 'Tyrants,
beware!' The newest Dreadnought with the First Lord of the Admiralty on board was preparing
to set out on her trial trip when it was discovered that the boilers were not making steam.
When the furnace doors were opened two dozen suffragettes, concealed within, began to shout,
'We want votes!' The leader of the Opposition is known to have walked all the way down Piccadilly
with a tag tied to his coattails inscribed: 'I see no reason for bestowing the suffrage on women.'

"But perhaps the most dastardly outrage occurred at the baptism of the youngest child of a
prominent treasury official. It seems that the nurse, who was a suffragette in disguise, had
removed the child, a girl, and substituted a mechanical doll, with a phonographic attachment.
The clergyman was in the middle of his discourse when the doll began to scream, 'Votes for
women.' The father gasped, 'What! So early?' and fainted.

"The more you weigh the reasons pro and con," continued Harding, as he lit one of my cigars,
"the harder it is to decide. Mrs. Cadgers has pointed out that under our present system the
wife of a college professor is not allowed to vote, whereas an illiterate Greek fruit peddler
may. But Mr. Rattler replies that the college professor, too, seldom votes, and if he does
he spoils his ballot by trying to split his ticket. Why, demands Mrs. Cadgers, should women
who pay taxes be refused a voice in the management of public affairs? Because, replies Mr.
Rattler, the suffrage and taxes do not necessarily go together. In our country at the present
day many millionaires who regularly cast their votes never pay their taxes.

"Mr. Rattler is particularly afraid that woman suffrage will break up the family. 'Imagine,'
he says, 'a family in which the husband is a Democrat and the wife a Cannon Republican. Imagine
them constantly fighting out the subject of tariff revision over the supper-table, and conceive
the dreadful effect on the children, who at present are accustomed to see father light his
cigar after supper and fall asleep. Or suppose the wife develops a passion for political meetings.
That means that the husband will have to stay at home with the baby.' 'Well,' replies Mrs.
Cadgers, 'such an arrangement has its advantages. It would not only give the wife a chance
to learn the meaning of citizenship, but it would give the husband a chance to get acquainted
with the baby.' And besides, Mrs. Cadgers goes on to argue, a woman's political duties need
not take up more than a small fraction of her time. That, retorts Mr. Rattler, with a sneer,
is because woman derives her ideas on the subject from seeing her husband fulfil his duties
as a citizen once every two years when he forgets to register.

"An excellent debate on the subject was the one between Mrs. Excelsior, who spoke in favour
of the ballot for women, and Professor Van Doodle, who upheld the negative. Professor Van Doodle
maintained that women are incapable of taking a genuine interest in public affairs. What is
it that appeals to a woman when she reads a newspaper? A Presidential election may be impending,
a great war is raging in the Far East, an explorer has just returned from the South Pole, and,
woman, picking up the Sunday paper, plunges straight into the fashion columns! She hardly finds
time to answer her husband's petulant inquiry as to what she has done with the comic supplement.
Can woman take an impersonal view of things? No, says Professor Van Doodle. In a critical Presidential
election, one in which the fate of the country is at stake, she will vote for the candidate
from whom she thinks she can get most for her husband and her children, whereas, her husband
under the same circumstances will cast aside all personal interests and vote the same ticket
his father voted for. Woman, concluded the professor, is constitutionally incapable of distinguishing
between right and wrong, between truth and falsehood.

"Mrs. Excelsior made a spirited defence. She showed that woman's undeveloped sense of what
truth and honesty are, would not handicap her in the pursuit of practical politics. She argued
that the complicated problems of municipal finance are no easier for the man who sets out to
raise a family on fifteen dollars a week than for the woman who succeeds in doing so. She declared
that a person who can travel thirty miles by subway and surface car, price $500 worth of dressgoods,
and buy her lunch, all on fifteen cents in cash and a transfer ticket, would make a good comptroller
for New York City.

"Professor Van Doodle claimed that under woman suffrage only a good-looking candidate would
stand a chance of being elected. Mrs. Excelsior replied that there was no reason for believing
that women would be more particular in choosing a State Senator than in selecting a husband.
The professor was foolish when he asserted that if women went to the polls they would vote
for the aldermen and the sheriffs, and would forget to vote for the President of the United
States, and would insist on doing so in a postscript. This was of a piece with the other ancient
jest that women are sure to vote for a Democrat when at heart they prefer a Republican, and
vice versa.

"The whole case," concluded Harding, "was summed up by the Rev. Dr. Hollow when he said that
in theory there is no objection to the present arrangement by which man rules the earth through
his reason, and woman rules man through his stomach; but unfortunately, the human reason and
the average man's stomach are apt to get out of order."

XXXIV

THE GERMS OF CULTURE

In my afternoon paper there was a letter by Veritas who tried to prove something about the
Trusts by quoting from the third volume of Macaulay's history. After dinner I took the book
from the shelf and as I struck it against the table to let the dust fly up, I thought of what
Mrs. Harrington said. The Harringtons had spent an evening with me. As they rose to go Mrs.
Harrington ran the tip of her gloved finger across half a dozen dingy volumes and sniffed.
"Why don't you put glass doors on your bookshelves?" she asked. It was a raw point with me
and she knew it. "The pretty kind, perhaps," I sneered, "with leaded panes and an antique iron
lock?" "Exactly," she replied. "The dust here is abominable. You must be just steeped in all
sorts of infection; and perhaps if you kept your books under lock and key people wouldn't run
away with them." I was a fool to have tried irony upon Mrs. Harrington. Her outlook upon life
is literal and domestic. Books are to her primarily part of a scheme of interior decoration.
Harrington's views come closer to my own, but Harrington is an indulgent husband.

The incident was now a week old, but something of the original fury came back to me. It was
exasperating that the world should be so afraid of dust in the only place where dust has meaning
and beauty. People who will go abroad in motor cars and veneer themselves with the germ-laden
dust of the highway, find it impossible to endure the silent deposit of the years on the covers
of an old book. And the dust of the gutter that is swept up by trailing skirts? And the dust
of soggy theatre-chairs? And the dust of old beliefs in which we live, my friend? And the dust
that statesmen and prophets are always throwing into our eyes? None of these interfere with
Mrs. Harrington's peace of mind. But when it comes to the dust on the gilt tops of my red-buckrammed
Molière she fears infection.

And yet Harrington is a man of exceptional intelligence. He would agree with me that infection
from book-dust is not an ignoble form of death. I sit there and plot obituaries. "Mr. H. Wellington
Jones," says the Evening Star, "died yesterday afternoon from ptomaine poisoning, after a very
brief illness. Friday night he was with a merry group of diners in one of our best-known and
most brilliantly lighted Broadway restaurants. He partook heartily of lobster salad, of which,
his closest friends declare, he was inordinately fond. Almost immediately he complained of
being ill and was taken home in a taxicab." If I were H. Wellington Jones and it were my fate
to die of poison I could frame a nobler end for myself. "Mr. H. Wellington Jones," I would
have it read, "died yesterday of some mysterious form of bacterial poisoning contracted while
turning over the pages of an old family Bible which he was accustomed to consult at frequent
intervals. Mr. Smith had a cut finger which was not quite healed and it is supposed that a
dust-speck from the pages of the old book must have entered the wound and induced sepsis. He
was found unconscious in his chair with the book open at the thirtieth chapter of Proverbs."
Yes, I sometimes find it hard to understand what Harrington, a man of really fine sensibilities,
sees in Mrs. Harrington. The very suggestion of locking up books to prevent their being carried
away hurts like the screech of a pencil upon a slate. I think of Mrs. Harrington and then I
think of Cooper. Cooper's shelves are continuously being denuded by his friends. But if you
think of Cooper as a helpless victim you are sadly mistaken. There is an elaborate scheme behind
it all, a scheme of such transcendent ingenuity as only simple-hearted, sweet-natured, unpractised,
purblind visionaries like Cooper are capable of.

He let me into the secret one day when he saw that I was about to find it out for myself. "I
know very many dear people," he said, "who are too busy to read books or too little in the
habit of it. You know them, too; they are men and women in whom the pulse of life beats too
rapidly for the calm pleasures of reading. They are not insensible to fine ideas, but they
must see these ideas in concrete form. If I, for instance, wish to know something about Spain,
I get one of Martin Hume's books, but these people take a steamer and go to Spain. I have read
everything of Meredith's and they have read almost nothing, but they saw Meredith in London
and spent a week-end with him at a country-house in Sussex. I avoid celebrities in the flesh.
I don't want to minister to them and I want still less to patronise them. I am afraid I should
be disappointed in them and I am sure they would be disappointed in me.

"However, that's not the point," says Cooper. "The problem is to make a man read who won't
read of his own accord. I do it by asking such a man to dinner. I pull out a volume of Marriott's
and remark, without emphasis, that after infinite exertion I have just got it back from Woolsey,
who is wild over the book. The fires of envy and acquisition flash in my visitor's eye. Might
he have the book for a day or two? Yes, I say after some hesitation, but he must promise to
bring it back. He grows fervent. Of course he will bring it back, by Saturday at the very latest
and in person. And he is my man from that moment. I have lost the book, of course, but I have
smuggled my troops within the fort, I have laid the train, I have transmitted the infection.
The serpent is in the garden. Time will do the work." The allusion was to Cooper's bookplate,
a red serpent about a golden staff.

"Not that I leave it altogether to time," says Cooper. "Once I have handed over the book to
Hobson, I make it a point to call on him at least once a week. Do you see why? Left to himself,
Hobson might soon outlive the first flush of his enthusiasm for that book. But if Hobson expects
me to drop in at any moment, he is afraid I may find the book on his library table and ask
him whether he has read it. So he hides the book in his bedroom. Then he is indeed mine. Some
night he will be out of sorts and find it hard to go to sleep. His eye will fall on the book
lying there on his table, and he will pick it up, at the same time lighting a cigar. I shall
never see that book again. But, I leave it to you, who needs that book more, I or Hobson?"

But Cooper did not tell all. I know he has made use of shrewder tactics. Ask any one of his
acquaintances why Cooper is never seen without a half-dozen magazines under his arm, an odd
volume or two of French criticism, and a couple of operatic scores. They will reply that it
is just Cooper's way. It goes with his black slouch hat, his badly-creased trousers, his flowing
cravat, and his general air of pre-Raphaelite ineptitude. It goes with his comprehensive ignorance
of present-day politics and science, and everything else in the present that well-informed
people are supposed to know. It goes with his total inability to be on time for dinners, and
his habit of getting lost in the subway. But Cooper is not as often in the clouds as some imagine.

How many of Cooper's friends, for example, have ever found peculiar significance in his talent
for forgetting things in other people's houses? Beneath that apparently characteristic trait
there is a Machiavellian motive which I alone have found out. Hobson, let us say, has been
taking dinner with Cooper, who gently pulls a copy of "Monna Vanna" from the shelf. Hobson
does not rise to the bait. He may have heard that Maeterlinck is a "highbrow" and it frightens
him. Or Hobson may not be going home that night, or he may object to carrying a parcel in the
subway, or for any other reason he will omit to take the book with him. "The next day," says
Cooper, "I pay Hobson a return visit, and forget the book on his hall-table. Steamers drawing five
or six feet of water could know regular journey to Chasuta at any season of the year, even
everything at lowest water, and meeting larger steamers at Yurimaguas would establish better
communication with the rich country of the region. Sometimes I add that Woolsey has been after that volume
for weeks. That night, I feel sure, Hobson will carry the book up to his bedroom."

And as Cooper spoke I thought of the Smith family, whom, by methods like those I have described,
Cooper succeeded in saving from themselves. Nerves in the Smith family were badly rasped. The
mother was not making great headway in her social campaigns. Her husband chafed at his children's
idleness and extravagance. The children went in sullen fashion about their own business. They
had no resources of their own. There was gloom in that household and stifled rancour, and the
danger of worse things to come, until the day when Cooper called and forgot at one blow a copy
of "Richard Feverel," the "Bab Ballads," and the third volume of Ferrero's "Rome."

As I have said, Cooper was not blind to the good he was doing. False modesty was not one of
his failings. He would continually have me admire his bookshelves. The books he was proudest
of were those he had lent or given away.... "I have a larger number of books missing," he would
boast, "than any man of my acquaintance. This big hole here is my Gibbon. I sent it to an interesting
old chap I met at a public dinner some years ago. He was a prosperous hardware merchant, self-made,
and, like all self-made men, a bit unfinished. He had read very little. I don't recall how
I happened to mention Gibbon or to send him the set. I think I may have forgotten the first
volume at his office the next morning. He devoured Gibbon. From him he went to Tacitus. He
has since read hundreds of books on the Roman empire and he has other hundreds of volumes waiting
to be read. But somehow he has never thought of sending me back my shabby old Gibbon. And that
was the way with my Montaigne--gone. And here were two editions of Gulliver. I lent one to
a nephew of the Harringtons and the other to a rather prim young lady from Boston who impressed
me as having had too much Emerson. My Shelley is gone. My 'Rousseau's Confessions' is also
gone." And Cooper smiled at me beatifically.

That was Cooper. ESPERANZA.

Esperanza is situated on the river about 11 miles of the junction
above the Ene and Perene, which form at the Tambo. Those navigation
for steamers drawing 10 feet of water at the junction of the Perene
and Ene. "Not a single complete set," wailed
Mrs. Harrington, "everything lugged away by people who should be taught to know better. Browning,
volumes I, II, V, and VII--four volumes gone. Middlemarch, volume II, first volume gone. Morley's
Gladstone, volumes I and III, one volume gone. I wager you don't even know who has the second
volume of your Gladstone. Do you, now?"

To tell the truth, I did not for the moment know. And as I hesitated she thrust one of the
volumes in triumph at me and mechanically I opened the book and saw a red serpent about a golden
staff. "I remember now," I told Mrs. Harrington. "I'll get the second volume the next time
I call on Cooper."

