But what is the attitude of the Suitors toward such a view? Eurymachus is the name of their
speaker now, manifestly a representative man of their kind. He derides the prophet: "Go home,
old man, and forecast for thy children!" He is a scoffer and skeptic; truly a spokesman of
the Suitors in their relation to the Gods, in whom they can have no living faith; through long
wickedness they imagine that there is no retribution, they have come to believe their own lie.
Impiety, then, is the chief fact of this speech, which really denies the world-government and
the whole lesson of this poem. Thus the divine warning is contemned, the call to a change of
conduct goes unheeded.

3. Then we have the third set of speeches which are personal in their leading note, and pertain
to the absent Ulysses, whose kindness and regal character are set forth by Mentor, his old
comrade, with strong reproaches toward the Ithacans for permitting the wrong to his house.
It is intimated that they could prevent it if they chose; but they are evidently deaf to this
appeal to their gratitude and affection for their chieftain.

Leiocrates, the third Suitor, responds in a speech which is the culmination of insolence and
defiance of right. The Suitors would slay Ulysses himself, should he now appear and undertake
to put them out of his palace. He dares not come and claim his own! Right or wrong we are going
to stay, and, if necessary, kill the owner. It is the most open and complete expression of
the spirit of the Suitors, they are a lot of brigands, who must be swept away, if there be
any order in the world. Leiocrates dissolves the Assembly, a thing which he evidently had no
right to do; the people tamely obey, the institutional spirit is not strong enough to resist
the man of violence. Let them scatter; they are a rotten flock of sheep at any rate.

Here the first part of the Book concludes. The three sets of speakers have given their views,
one on each side; each set has represented a certain phase of the question; thus we have heard
the institutional, religious and personal phases. In such manner the sweep of the conduct of
the Suitors is fully brought out; they are destroying State and Family, are defying the Gods,
and are ready to slay the individual who may stand in their way. Certainly their harvest is
ripe for the sickle of divine justice, upon whose deep foundation this poem reposes.

The Assembly of the People now vanishes quite out of sight, it has indeed no valid ground of
being. The young men seem to be the chief speakers, and show violent opposition, while the
old men hold back, or manifest open sympathy with the House of Ulysses. The youth of Ithaca
have had their heads turned by the brilliant prize, and rush forward forgetful of the penalty.
It is indeed a time of moral loosening, of which this poem gives the source, progress, and
cure. Telemachus, however, rises out of the mass of young men, the future hero who is to assert
the law of the Gods. In such manner we are to reach down to the fact that the spirit of the
Odyssey is ethical in the deepest sense, and reveals unto men the divine order of the world.

II.

We now pass to the second part of the book, which shows Telemachus accomplishing with the aid
of the deity what human institutions failed to do. If the Assembly will not help him in the
great cause, the Gods will, and now he makes his appeal to them.

The Ithacans had refused a ship in order that he might go and learn something about his father;
that is, they will not permit his education, which is at present the first object.

He goes down to the seacoast, where he will be alone, communing with the Goddess and with himself,
and there he prays to Pallas, washing his hands in the grey surf--which is, we may well think,
a symbolic act of purification. Is it a wonder that Pallas, taking the human shape of Mentor,
comes and speaks to him? She must, if she be at all; he is ready, and she has to appear. Her
first words are but the echo of his conduct all through the preceding scene with the Assembly:
"Telemachus henceforth thou shalt be wanting neither in valor nor in wisdom." She rouses him
by the fame and deeds of his father, because he is already aroused. Still she is a very necessary
part; she is the divine element in the world speaking to Telemachus and helping him; she shows
that his thought is not merely subjective, but is now one with hers, with objective wisdom,
and will rule the fact. He ascends into the realm of true vision, and from thence organizes
his purpose. It is true that the poet represents Pallas as ordering the means for the voyage,
as at first she ordered the work of the whole poem. Yet this is also done by Telemachus who
has risen to participation in that glance which beholds the truth and controls the world.

Often will the foregoing statement be repeated; every divine appearance in Homer, of any import,
is but a repetition of the one fact, which must always be re-thought by the reader. That which
Telemachus says is no longer his mere wish or opinion, but it is the reality, the valid thing
outside of him, hence it is voiced by the Goddess, and must take place. Thus the poet often
compels his reader to rise with him into the sphere of the divine energy, where thinking and
willing are one, and man's insight is just the word of the God.

The remaining circumstances of the Book group themselves around the two centers--Telemachus
and Pallas--as the Goddess orders them in advance: "Go thou home and get the stores ready,
while I shall engage a ship and crew among the Ithacans."

1. Telemachus goes among the Suitors, evidently to avoid suspicion, which his absence might
provoke. They taunt and deride him, whereof three samples are again given. He goes his way,
conscious of his divine mission, not failing however to tell them: "I shall surely make the
voyage, not in vain it will be." He obtains food and wine from the aged stewardess Eurycleia,
who seeks to dissuade him. Then too his mother must not know of his plan, she would keep him
still a boy in the house, whereas he has become a man.

2. Pallas in the semblance of Telemachus goes through the town to secure the ship and crew.
Then she pours over the Suitors a gentle sleep after their revel; she takes away their wisdom,
yet it is their own deed, which just now has a divine importance. Finally she brings all to
the ship, seizes the helm and sends the favoring breeze. Or, as we understand the poet, intelligence
brings about these things under many guises; even nature, the breeze, it takes advantage of
for its own purpose.

Thus Pallas has the controlling hand in this second part of the Book, she is above man and
nature. We can say that the controlling spirit is also Telemachus, who manifests Reason, controlling
and directing the world. Note the various forms which she assumes, as Mentor, as Telemachus;
then again she works purely through mind, in the natural way, as for example, when Telemachus
goes home and obtains his food and wine for the voyage. The poet thus plays with her shape;
still she is essentially the divine intelligence which seizes upon men and circumstances, and
fits them into the order universal, and makes them contribute to the great purpose of the poem.
Still the Goddess does not destroy man's freedom, but supplements it, lifting it out of the
domain of caprice. Telemachus willingly wills the will of Pallas.

Already it has been remarked that the Goddess is made to command nature--the breeze, the sleep
of the Suitors. It is the method of fable thus to portray intelligence, whose function is to
take control of nature and make her subserve its purpose. The breeze blows and drives the ship;
it is the divine instrument for bringing Telemachus to Pylos, a part of the world-order, especially
upon the present occasion. The born poet still talks that way, he is naturally a fabulist and
cannot help himself. In his speech, the hunter does not chase the deer, but brings it before
his gun by a magic power; the mystic fisher calls the fishes; the enchanted bullet finds its
own game and needs only to be shot off; the tanner even lays a spell upon the water in his
vat and makes it run up hill through a tube bent in a charm. But back of all this enchantment
intelligence is working and assumes her mythical, supernatural garb when the poet images her
control of nature.

Thus in general the Mythus shadows forth objective mind, not subjective; it springs from the
imaginative Reason, and not from a cultivated Reflection. In our time the demand is to have
these objective forms translated into subjective thoughts; then we can understand them better.
But the Homeric man shows the opposite tendency: he had to translate his internal thoughts
into the external shapes of the Mythus before he could grasp fully his own mind. His conception
of the world was mythical; this form he understood and not that of abstract reflection. We
may well exclaim: Happy Homeric man, to whom the world was ever present, not himself. Yet both
sides belong to the full-grown soul, the mythical and the reflective; from Homer the one-sided
modern mind can recover a part of its spiritual inheritance, which is in danger of being lost.

It is therefore, a significant fact that the education of the present time is seeking to restore
the Mythus to its true place in the development of human spirit. The Imagination is recognized
to have its right, and unless it be taken care of in the right way, it will turn a Fury, and
wreak treble vengeance upon the age which makes it an outcast. Homer is undoubtedly the greatest
of all mythologists, he seizes the pure mythical essence of the human mind and gives to it
form and beauty. Hence from this point of view, specially, we shall study him.

In the present Book the fact is brought out strongly that little or nothing is to be expected
from the Ithacan people toward rectifying the great wrong done to the House of Ulysses. In
part they are the wrong-doers themselves, in part they are cowed into inactivity by the wrong-doers.
Corruption has eaten into the spirit of the people; the result is, the great duty of deliverance
is thrown back upon an individual. One man is to take the place of all, or a few men the place
of the many, for the work must be done. The mightiness of the individual in the time of a great
crisis is thus set forth in vivid reality; the one man with the Gods on his side is the majority.
With truest instinct does the old poet show the Goddess Pallas directing Telemachus, who participates
in the Divine and is carrying out its decree. This communion between man and deity is no mere
mythologic sport, but the sincerest faith; verily it is the solidest fact in the government
of the world, and the bard is its voice to all ages.

This Second Book has its import for the whole poem. It is now manifest that Ulysses, when he
returns, is not to expect a grand popular reception; he must bring himself back to his own
by his skill and prowess alone. The people will not help him slay the wrong-doers; rather the
contrary will happen. Again the individual must work out the salvation of himself as well as
of his family and his country. Telemachus has shown himself the worthy son of the heroic father;
the present Book connects him intimately with the return of Ulysses, and binds the entire Odyssey
into unity; especially does this Book look to and prepare for the last twelve Books, which
bring father and son together in one great act of deliverance.

If in the previous Book we beheld the depravity of the Suitors, we now witness the imbecility
of the People. Still the spark of hope flashes out brightly in this Ithacan night; something
is at work to punish the guilty and to redeem the land.

BOOK THIRD.

In narrative, the present Book connects directly with the preceding Book. Pallas is still with
Telemachus, they continue the voyage together till they reach Pylos, the home of Nestor. They
have left Ithaca, and come into another realm; this change of place, as is often the case in
Homer, carries with it a change of inner condition; the voyage is not simply geographical but
also spiritual; indeed it must be so, if the young man is to derive from it any experience.

Great and striking is the difference between Ithaca and Pylos. The latter is the abode of religion
primarily, the new-comers find the Pylians engaged in an act of worship, in which the whole
people participate, "nine rows of seats and five hundred men in each row."

Too large a number, cry some commentators, but they have not looked into the real meaning of
such a multitude. Here is sacrifice, reverence, belief in the Gods; while among the Ithacans
is neglect of worship, religious paralysis, and downright blasphemy on the part of the Suitors.
Furthermore, in one country order reigns, in the other is anarchy. Such is the contrast between
the Second and Third Books, the contrast between Ithaca and Pylos. We can well think that this
contrast was intended by the poet, and thus we may catch a glimpse of his artistic procedure.

The center of the picture is Nestor, a very old man, who, accordingly, gives soul to the Book.
He is so near the world of the Gods in the present life, that he seems already to dwell with
them; age brings this serene piety.

No accident is it that this Book of Nestor begins and ends with a festival of sacrifice and
prayer; that is the true setting of his character. What he says to the visitors will take color
and meaning from his fundamental trait; we may expect in his words a full recognition of divinity
in the events of the world.

But he has been a stout fighter in his time, he was in the Trojan War, though old already at
that period. He will give the lesson of his life, not during that war, but afterwards. He was
one of the heroes of the Iliad, which poem the Odyssey not only does not repeat, but goes out
of its way to avoid any repetition thereof. Moreover he was one of those who returned home
successfully, can he tell how it was done? This is the question of special interest to Telemachus,
as his father, after ten years, has not yet reached home.

Herewith the theme of the Book is suggested: the Return. Physically this was a return from
the Trojan War, which is the pre-supposition of the whole Odyssey; all the heroes who have
not perished, have to get back to Hellas in some way. These ways are very diverse, according
to the character of the persons and the circumstances. Thus we touch the second grand Homeric
subject, and, indeed, the second grand fact of the Greek consciousness, which lies imbedded
in the Return (Nostos). A short survey of this subject must here be given. We have in the present
Book several phases of the Return; Nestor, Menelaus, Ulysses are all Returners, to use a necessary
word for the thought; each man solves the problem in his own manner.

Now what is this problem? Let us see. The expedition to Troy involved a long separation from
home and country on the part of every man who went with it; still this separation had to be
made for the sake of Helen, that she, the wife and queen, return to home and country, from
which she had been taken. Her Return, indeed, is the essence of all their Returns. We see that
through the war they were severed from Family and State, were compelled to give up for the
time being their whole institutional life. This long absence deepens into alienation, into
a spiritual scission, from mere habit in the first place; then, in the second place, they are
seeking to destroy a home and a country; though it be that of the enemy, and the act, even
if necessary, brings its penalty. It begets a spirit of violence, a disregard of human life,
a destruction of institutional order. Such is the training of the Greeks before Troy. The wanton
attack of Ulysses and his companions upon the city of the Ciconians (Book Ninth) is an indication
of the spirit engendered in this long period of violence, among the best and wisest Greeks.

Still, in spite of the grand estrangement, they have the aspiration for return, and for healing
the breach which had sunk so deep into their souls. Did they not undergo all this severing
of the dearest ties for the sake of Helen, for the integrity of the family, and of their civil
life also? What he has done for Helen, every Greek must be ready to do for himself, when the
war is over; he must long for the restoration of the broken relations; he cannot remain in
Asia and continue a true Greek. Such is his conflict; in maintaining Family and State, he has
been forced to sacrifice Family and State. Then when he has accomplished the deed of sacrifice,
he must restore himself to what he has immolated. A hard task, a deeply contradictory process,
whose end is, however, harmony; many will not be able to reach the latter stage, but will perish
by the way. The Return is this great process of restoration after the estrangement.

Many are the Returners, successful and unsuccessful in many different ways. But they all are
resumed in the one long desperate Return of Ulysses, the wise and much-enduring man. In space
as well as in time his Return is the longest; in spirit it is the deepest and severest by all
odds. The present poem, therefore, is a kind of resumption and summary of the entire series
of Returns (Nostoi). In the old Greek epical ages, the subject gave rise to many poems, which
are, however, at bottom but one, and this we still possess, while the others are lost. Spirit
takes care of its own verily.

The true Returner, accordingly, gets back to the institutions from which he once separated;
he knows them now, previously he only felt them. His institutional world must become thus a
conscious possession; he has gone through the alienation, and has been restored; his restoration
has been reached through denial, through skepticism, we may say, using the modern term. The
old unconscious period before the Trojan war is gone forever; that was the Paradise from which
the Greek Adam has been expelled. But the new man after the restoration is the image of the
complete self-conscious being, who has taken the negative period into himself and digested
it. Fortunate person! he cannot now be made the subject of a poem, for he has no conflict.

But the young man beginning life, the son Telemachus, is to obtain the same kind of knowledge,
not through experience but through inquiry. Oral tradition is to give him the treasures of
wisdom without the bitter personal trial. It is for this reason that Pallas sends him to find
out what his father did, and to make the experience of the parent his own by education; it
is, indeed, the true education--to master the accumulated knowledge and wisdom of the race
up to date. So we are now to have the school period of the son, who is thereby not merely the
physical son (which, he remarks, is always a matter of doubt), but the spiritual son of his
father, whereof there can be no doubt.

The Odyssey proper, toward which we may now cast a glance, contains the wanderings of Ulysses,
and is the work of the grown man who has to meet the world face to face and conquer it; thus
he obtains the experience of life. The two parts are always to be placed together--the education
of the young man and the experience of the mature man; they constitute a complete history of
a human soul. Both are, indeed one--bud and flower; at bottom, too, both mean the same thing--the
elevation of the individual into an ethical life in which he is in harmony with himself and
with the divine order. True learning and true experience reach this end, which may be rightfully
called wisdom.

So Telemachus the youth is to listen to the great and impressive fact of his time, containing
the deep spiritual problem which is designated as the Return. Nestor is the first and simplest
of these Returners; he is an old man, he has prudence, he is without passion; moreover he has
not the spirit of inquiry or the searching into the Beyond; he accepts the transmitted religion
and opinions without question, through the conservatism of age as well as of character. It
is clear that the spiritual scission of the time could not enter deep into his nature; his
long absence from home and country produced no alienation; he went home direct after the fall
of Troy, the winds and the waters were favorable, no tempest, no upheaval, no signs of divine
anger. But he foresaw the wrath of the Gods and fled across the wave in all speed, the wrestle
with the deity lay not in him.

It is worth our while to make a little summary of these Returners in classes, since in this
way the thought of the present Book as well as its place in the entire Odyssey can be seen
best. First are those who never succeeded in returning, but perished in the process of it;
of this class the great example is the leader himself, Agamemnon, who was slain by his own
wife and her paramour. Second are those who succeeded in returning; of this class there are
three well-marked divisions, which are to be sharply designated in the mind of the reader.

(1). The immediate Returners, those who went straight home, without internal scission or external
trouble; unimportant they are in this peaceful aspect though they were formerly heroes in the
war. Four such are passingly mentioned by Nestor in his talk: Diomed, Neoptolemus the son of
Achilles, Philoctetes, and Idomeneus. Nestor himself is the most prominent and the typical
one of this set who are the Returners through Hellas.

(2). The second one of those who have succeeded in getting home is Menelaus, whose sweep is
far beyond that of Nestor and the immediate Greek world, taking in Egypt and the East. He was
separated from Nestor, having delayed to bury his steersman; then a storm struck him, bore
him to Crete and beyond, the wind and wave carried him to the land of the Nile. He is the Returner
through the Orient.

(3). Finally is Ulysses, not yet returned, but whose time has nearly arrived. In comparison
with the others he is the Returner through the Occident. But his Return gives name to the poem,
of which it is the greater portion.

Still the universal poem is to embrace all these phases of the Return, and the son, through
education, is to know them all, not by experience but by information. Thus his training is
to reach beyond what the life of his father can give him; it must be universal, and in this
way it becomes a true discipline. We must note too, that this poem reaches beyond the Return
of Ulysses, beyond what its title suggests, and embraces all the Returns, Hellenic, Oriental,
Occidental, as well as the grand failure to return.

Such are some of the thoughts which gleam out the present Book and illuminate the whole Odyssey.
We can now consider structure of the Book, which falls into two distinct parts, determined
by the Goddess. When she makes ready to quit Telemachus, we enter the second portion of the
Book, and Telemachus continues his journey without direct divine supervision. As the previous
Book was marked by the coming of the Goddess, the present Book is marked by her going. The
intercourse of the youth with Nestor is the extent of her immediate guardianship; after such
an experience, he must learn to make the rest of the journey through his own resources. Even
the deity teaches that there must not be too much reliance upon the deity. The first portion
of the Book extends to line 328, where Nestor ends his story of the Returns and suggests the
journey to Menelaus for another phase thereof: "the sun set and darkness came on." The second
portion embraces the rest of the Book. Again we must note that the fundamental Homeric division
into the Upper and Lower Worlds is what divides the Book, thus giving to the same its organic
principle.

I.

The religious setting of Nestor's world has been noticed already. Into it Telemachus comes,
out of a realm of violence; it must indicate some cure for the ills of Ithaca. But he is now
to show himself a man. Pallas orders him to put aside his youthful modesty, and boldly make
the inquiry concerning his father. And here the Goddess utters a remark which the student may
well ponder: "Some things thou wilt think of in thine own mind, but a God will suggest others."
Again the Homeric dualism--the human and the divine--and also their harmony; the two elements
must come together in every high thought or action. The double relation of the individual--to
himself and to the God--is necessary for all worthy speech; his own activity and that of the
deity run together in true discourse as well as in true action. So the whole poem is made up
of man's self-determined energy and the interference of the Gods; yet both are to be seen as
ultimately one in the deed.

The new-comers are asked to pray, and we hear the famous utterance, which is characteristic
of Nestor's world, "All men have need of the Gods." This is said by one of his sons. Pallas
makes the prayer, a happy one, which brings forth a feeling of harmony between the strangers
and all the People. The sympathy is complete, and Telemachus can proceed to ask concerning
his father, after he has told who he himself is, and whence he has come. In response, Nestor
begins to tell the fateful story of the Returns after the fall of Troy. In his narrative we
behold the starting-point of the calamities, the difference between Agamemnon and Menelaus,
followed by a series of separations in succession. "Zeus planned for them a sad Return," which,
however, was their own fault, "for all were neither wise nor just." It is clear that the Greek
unity is utterly broken, a spiritual disruption sets in after the capture of the city. It is,
indeed, the new problem, this Return to peace and institutional order after ten years' training
to violence. Such is the penalty of all war, however just and necessary; after it is over,
the fighting cannot stop at once, and so the victors divide into two camps and continue the
fight. Nestor gives the picture of these repeated divisions; once, twice, thrice the breach
occurs; first he separates from Agamemnon, the second time from Ulysses, the third time from
Menelaus. He will go directly home, and thus he has to leave the others behind; the scission
is not in him as in them; he can be restored, in fact he restores himself. He has the instinctive
pre-Trojan character still, being an old man; but Ulysses has lost that, and so separates from
Nestor, though never before had they differed "in the Council of the Chiefs or in the Assembly
of the People." But Ulysses has to return by a far different road, and now each of the two
wise men takes his own way, though both have to return.

Aged Nestor manifestly does not belong to the new epoch, he seems to have no sense of the deep
spiritual struggle involved. He instinctively went home, shunning the conflict; the others
could not. In the Iliad the relation between the two wise men, Nestor and Ulysses, is subtly
yet clearly drawn; the one--the younger man--has creative intelligence, the other--the older
man--has appreciative intelligence. In the Odyssey, the relation is plainly evolved out of
that described in the Iliad; the one is the boundless striver, the other rests in the established
order of things.

Nestor, therefore, cannot tell much about Ulysses, who lies quite out of his horizon, at least
in the Odyssey. He can only give hope that the man of wisdom will yet return. This Telemachus
doubts, dropping into one of his low human moods, even in the presence of Pallas, who rebukes
him sharply. It is, indeed, the great lesson; he must have faith in the reality of the Gods,
this is the basis of all his future progress, the chief attainment of wisdom. The young man
must not fall away into denial, he must be taught that there is a divine order in the world.
Old Homer, too, had his notions about religion in education, and the Goddess herself is here
introduced giving a lesson.

Nestor, though unable himself to give much information about the Return, can point to the second
grand Returner, Menelaus, who has lately come from a distant land, and may have something to
say. In fact Menelaus was the last to separate from Nestor, Ulysses had separated long before.

One other story Nestor tells with great sympathy, that of Agamemnon, who represents a still
different form of the Return. The great leader of the Greeks can master the Trojan difficulty,
can even get back to home and country, but these are ultimately lost to him by his faithless
spouse. Still, after the father's death, the son Orestes restores Family and State. Therein
Telemachus sees an image of himself, the son, who is to slay his mother's suitors; he sees,
too, the possible fate of his father. Ulysses has essentially the same problem as Agamemnon,
though he has not the faithless wife in addition; Telemachus beholds his duty in the deed of
Orestes, according to Greek consciousness. We shall see hereafter how Ulysses takes due precaution
not to be slain in his own land, as Agamemnon was. In disguise he will go to his own palace
and carefully note the situation in advance, and then strike the blow of deliverance.

Several times Homer repeats in the Odyssey the tragic story of Agamemnon, the great Leader
of the Greeks at Troy. An awe-inspiring tale of destiny; out of it Æschylus will develop his
great tragedy, the Oresteia. Indeed the epos develops into tragedy with the full mythical unfolding
of this story. Æschylus will deepen the motives into internal collisions; he will show the
right and the wrong in Agamemnon, and even in Clytemnestra. Orestes, however beneficent his
deed in avenging his father, will not escape the counterstroke; Æschylus will send after him
the Furies for the guilt of having murdered his mother. Thus the double nature of the deed,
its reward and its penalty, unfolds out of Homer into Æschylus, and creates the Greek drama
as we know it at present.

Nestor has now told what lay in the immediate circle of his experience: the Return direct through
Hellas. Again he mentions the last separation; it was that of himself from Menelaus, when the
latter was swept beyond the limit of Hellas into Egypt, from which he has now returned. What
next? Evidently the young man must be sent to him at Sparta in order to share in this larger
circle of experience, extending to the Orient. So Greece points to the East in many ways; Nestor,
the purely Hellenic soul, knows of that wider knowledge, though it be not his, and he knows
that it should be possessed.

In this Book as elsewhere in the Odyssey the grand background is the Trojan war. The incidents
of the Iliad are hardly alluded to, but are certainly taken for granted; the Post-Iliad is
the field of interest, for in it the Returns take place. Thus the two great poems of Homer
join together and show themselves as complements of each other.

II.

Now comes the separation which marks the second portion of the Book. Pallas, in the guise of
Mentor, coincides with Nestor in advising Telemachus to pay a visit to Menelaus, and then she
departs, "sailing off like a sea-eagle," whereat great astonishment from all present. That
is, she reveals herself; all recognize the Goddess, and probably that is the reason why she
can no longer stay. She has become internal. Telemachus is now conscious, as she disappears,
and he has his own wisdom; he has seen Pallas, and so he must go without her to Sparta. Hardly
does he need her longer, being started upon the path of wisdom to know wisdom. At the court
of Nestor, with its deeply religious atmosphere, she can appear; but she declines to go with
him in person to Menelaus, though she advises the journey. All of which, to the sympathetic
reader, has its significance. Still Pallas has by no means vanished out of the career of Telemachus;
she at present, however, leaves him to himself, as she often does.

Nestor, too, responds to the marvelous incident in true accord with his character; he invokes
her with prayer and institutes a grand sacrifice, which is now described in a good deal of
detail. Just as the Book opens with a sacrifice to a deity, so it closes with one--the two
form the setting of the whole description. Thus the recognition of the Gods is everywhere set
forth in Nestor's world; he is the man of faith, of primitive, immediate faith, which has never
felt the doubt.

It is well that Telemachus meets with such a man at the start, and gets a breath out of such
an atmosphere. He has seen the ills of Ithaca from his boyhood; he may well question at times
the superintendence of the Gods. His own experience of life would lead him to doubt the existence
of a Divine Order. Even here in Pylos he challenges the supremacy of the Olympians. When Nestor
intimates that his father will yet return and punish the Suitors, with the help of Pallas,
or that he himself may possibly do so with the aid of the same Goddess, Telemachus replies:
"Never will that come to pass, I think, though I hope for it; no, not even if the Gods should
so will." Assuredly a young skeptic he shows himself, probably in a fit of despondency; sharp
is the reproof of the Goddess: "O Telemachus, what kind of talk is that? Easily can a God,
if he wills it, save a man even at a distance." Thus she, a Goddess, asserts the supremacy
of the Gods, even though they cannot avert death. But the youth persists at present: "let us
talk no more of this; my father never will return." But when Nestor has told the story of Ægisthus
punished by the son Orestes, the impression is strong that there is a divine justice which
overtakes the guilty man at last; such is the old man's lesson to the juvenile doubter. The
lesson is imparted in the form of a tale, but it has its meaning, and Telemachus cannot help
putting himself into the place of Orestes.

Such is, then, the training which the young man, shaken by misfortune, obtains at the court
of Nestor; the training to a belief in the rule of the Gods in a Divine Order of the World--which
is the fundamental belief of the present poem. It is no wonder that Telemachus sees Pallas
at last, sees that she has been with him, recognizing her presence. To be sure, she now disappears
as a personal presence, having been found out; still she sends Telemachus on his journey to
Sparta. Thus the Third Book has a distinctive character of its own, differing decidedly from
the Book which goes before and from that which follows. Here is a religious world, idyllic,
paradisaical in its immediate relation to the Gods, and in the primitive innocence of its people,
who seem to be without a jar or inner scission. No doubt or dissonance has yet entered apparently;
Pylos stands between Ithaca, the land of absolute discord, and Sparta, the land recently restored
out of discord. The Book hears a relation to the whole Odyssey in its special theme, which
is the Return, of which it represents in the ruler Nestor a particular phase. It prepares the
way for the grand Return, which is that of Ulysses; it is a link connecting the whole poem
into unity. Moreover it shadows forth one of the movements of Greek spirit, which seized upon
this idea of a Return from Troy to express the soul's restoration from its warring, alienated,
dualistic condition. It is well known that there were many poems on this subject; each hero
along with his town or land had his Return, which became embodied in legend and song. All Hellas,
in a certain stage of its spiritual movement, had a tendency to break out into the lay of the
Return. One of the so-called cyclic poets, Hagias of Troezen, collected a number of these lays
into one poem and called it the Nostoi or Returns, evidently an outgrowth of this Third Book
in particular and of the Odyssey in general.

Thus Telemachus has witnessed and heard a good deal during his stay with Nestor. He has seen
a religious world, a realm of faith in the Gods, which certainly has left its strong impression;
he has been inspired by the example of his father, whose worth has been set forth, and whose
place in the great Trojan movement has been indicated, by the aged Hero. Still further, Telemachus
has been brought to share in the idea of the Return, the present underlying idea of the whole
Greek consciousness; thus he must be led to believe in it and to work for it, applying it to
his own case and his own land. Largely, from a negative, despairing state of mind due to his
Ithacan environment, he has been led into glimpses of a positive believing one; this has sprung
from his schooling with Nestor, who may be called his first schoolmaster, from whom he is now
to pass to his second.

The reader must judge whether the preceding view be too introspective for Homer, who is usually
declared to be the unconscious poet, quite unaware of his purpose or process. No one can carefully
read the Third Book without feeling its religious purport; an atmosphere it has peculiar to
itself in relation to the other Books of the Telemachiad. To be sure, we can read it as an
adventure, a mere diverting story, without further meaning than the attempt to entertain vacant
heads seeking to kill time. But really it is the record of the spirit's experience, and must
so be interpreted. Again the question comes up: what is it to know Homer? His geography, his
incidents, his grammar, his entire outer world have their right and must be studied--but let
us proceed to the next Book.

BOOK FOURTH.

The transition from Book Third to Book Fourth involves a very significant change of environment.
In Sparta, to which Telemachus now passes, there is occurring no public sacrifice to the Gods,
but a domestic festal occasion gives the tone; he moves out of a religious into a secular atmosphere.
Pylos allows the simple state of faith, the world unfallen; Sparta has in it the deep scission
of the soul, which, however, is at present healed after many wanderings and struggles. Nestor,
as we have seen, is quite without inner conflict; Menelaus and Helen represent a long, long
training in the school of error, tribulation, misfortune. Pylos is the peace before the fall,
Sparta is the peace after the fall, yet with many reminiscences of the latter. This Fourth
Book reaches out beyond Greece, beyond the Trojan War, it goes beyond the Hellenic limit in
Space and Time, it sweeps backward into Egypt and the Orient. It is a marvelous Book, calling
for our best study and reflection; certainly it is one of the greatest compositions of the
human mind. Its fundamental note is restoration after the grand lapse; witness Helen, and Menelaus
too; the Third Book has no restoration, because it has no alienation.

The account of the various Returns from Troy is continued. In the preceding Book we had those
given by Nestor, specially his own, which was without conflict. He is the man of age and wisdom,
he does not fall out with the Gods, he does not try to transcend the prescribed limits, he
is old and conservative. The Returns which he speaks of beside his own, are confined to the
Greek world; that was the range of his vision.

But now in the Fourth Book we are to hear of the second great Return, in which two Greeks participate,
Menelaus and Helen. This Return is by way of the East, through Egypt, which is the land of
ancient wisdom for the Greek man, and for us too. It is the land of the past to the Hellenic
mind, whither the person who aspires to know the antecedents of himself and his culture must
travel; or, he must learn of those who have been there, if he cannot go himself. Egyptian lore,
which had a great influence upon the early Greek world in its formative period, must have some
reflection in this primitive Greek book of education. So Telemachus, to complete his discipline,
must reach beyond Greece into the Orient, he must get far back of Troy, which was merely an
orientalizing Hellenic city; he must learn of Egypt. Thus he transcends the national limit,
and begins to obtain an universal culture.

But the moment we go beyond the Greek world with its clear plastic outlines, the artistic form
changes; the Hellenic sunshine is tinged with Oriental shadows; we pass from the unveiled Zeus
to the veiled Isis. Homer himself gets colored with touches of Oriental mystery. The Egyptian
part of this Fourth Book, therefore, will show a transformation of style as well as of thought,
and changeful Proteus will become a true image of the Poet. The work will manifest a symbolic
tendency; it will have an aroma of the wisdom of the East, taught in forms of the parable,
the apologue, with hints of allegory. The world, thrown outside of that transparent Greek life,
becomes a Fairy Tale, which is here taken up and incorporated into a great poem. We shall be
compelled to look thoroughly into these strange shapes of Egypt, and, if possible, reach down
to their meaning, for meaning they must have, or be meaningless. We shall find that this Fourth
Book stands in the front rank of Homeric poetry for depth and suggestiveness, if not for epical
lucidity.

What did not Telemachus see and hear at Sparta? That was, indeed, an education. He saw the
two great returned ones, the woman and the man. Helen he saw, who had passed through her long
alienation and was now restored to home and country after the Trojan discipline. In her, the
most beautiful woman, the human cycle was complete--the fall, the repentance, the restoration.
Then the eager youth saw Menelaus, and heard his story of the Return; he is the man who seeks
the treasures of the East, and brings them to Hellas in the Hellenic way. He finds them, too,
after much suffering, never losing them again in the tempests of his voyage, for does he not
spread them out before us in his talk? Both the man and the woman, after the greatest human
trials, have reached serenity--an institutional and an intellectual harmony. The young man
sees it and feels it and takes it away in his head and heart.

The present Book falls easily into two distinct portions. The first is the visit of Telemachus
to Sparta and what he experiences there. Sparta is at peace and in order; the youth to a degree
beholds in it the ideal land to which he must help transform his own disordered country. The
second portion of the Book goes back to Ithaca (line 625 of the Greek text). Here we are suddenly
plunged again into the wrongful deeds of the suitors, done to the House of Ulysses. They are
plotting the death of Telemachus, the bearing of whose new career has dawned upon them. Ithaca
is truly the realm of discord in contrast to the harmony of Sparta and the House of Menelaus,
which has also had sore trials. Hence Sparta may be considered a prophecy of the redemption
of Ithaca.

Following out these structural suggestions, we designate the organism of the Book in this manner:--

I. The visit of Telemachus at Sparta in which he beholds and converses with two chief Returners
from Troy, those who came back by way of the East, Menelaus and Helen. This part embraces the
greater portion of the Book and falls into three divisions.

1. The arrival and recognition of the son of Ulysses by Menelaus and Helen who are in a mood
of reminiscence, speaking of and in the Present with many a glance back into the Past. The
Oriental journey to Cyprus, Phoenicia, and specially Egypt, plays into their conversation,
making the whole a Domestic Tale of real life with an ideal background lying beyond Hellas.

2. When the son is duly recognized and received, the father Ulysses comes in for reminiscence;
with him the background shifts from the Orient to Troy, where he was the hero of so many deeds
of cunning and valor, and where both Menelaus and Helen were chief actors. The literary form
passes out of the Domestic Tale of the Present into the Heroic Tale of the Past, from sorrowful
retrospection to bracing description of daring deeds. Helen and Menelaus, each in turn, tell
stories of Ulysses at Troy to the son, who thus learns much about his father. As already said,
the background of this portion is the Trojan war which was the grand Hellenic separation from
the Orient. The Iliad, and specially the Post-Iliad are here presupposed by the Odyssey.

3. The Return of Menelaus is now told to Telemachus, which Return reaches behind the Trojan
war into the East and beyond the limits of the real Hellas into Egypt. Thus the spatial and
temporal bounds of Greece are transcended, the actual both in the Present and Past goes over
into the purely ideal, and the literary form becomes a Marvelous Tale--that of Proteus, which
suggests not only Present and Past, but all Time.

II. Such is the grand Return of Menelaus out of struggle and dualism into peace and reconciliation
with himself and the world, barring certain painful memories. The poet next, in sharp contrast
throws the reader back to Ithaca, the land of strife and wrong, in general of limits for young
Telemachus, who is reaching out for freedom through intelligence, and is getting a good deal
thereof. Two phases:

1. The Suitors' limits, which he has broken through; their wrath and their plan of murdering
him in consequence.

2. The mother's limits, which he has also broken through; her paroxysm in consequence, and
final consolation.

I.

The first portion of the Book, as above given, is by all means the greatest in conception and
in execution as well as the longest. As already indicated there are three kinds of writing
in it, yet fused together into unity, which makes it a most varied, yet profoundly suggestive
piece of Art. The simple idyllic, domestic strain of ordinary real life we hear at the start
in the reception and recognition of Telemachus at Sparta; the scene lies in the sunshine of
a serene existence, yet after mighty tempests. Thence we pass into the heroic world of Troy
out of Greece and the Present, and listen to an epical story of heroism told by Menelaus and
Helen, of the Hero Ulysses; finally we are brought to Egypt, and hear a prophecy concerning
the same Hero, who is now the subject of the Fairy Tale. In other words, in this portion of
the Fourth Book we observe a change of scene to three localities--Greece, Troy, Egypt, which
correspond to Present, Past, and Future, and which attune the soul respectively to Sorrow,
Reminiscence, Prophecy. In accord with this variety of place and circumstance is the variety
of literary form already noted: the ordinary Descriptive Tale of the Present, the Heroic Story
of the Past, and the Fairy Tale imaging what is distant in space and time.

1. As Telemachus arrives, he notes the outer setting to this noble picture of Menelaus and
Helen. There is the magnificent palace with many costly ornaments of "bronze, gold, silver,
amber and ivory;" it has the ideal of Greek architecture, not yet realized doubtless, still
it suggests "the Hall of Olympian Zeus" to the admiring Telemachus. The new-comers happen upon
a wedding-festival, which connects the place and the occasion with the Trojan war and its Hero
Achilles, whose son is now to marry Helen's daughter, betrothed to him while at Troy. Moreover
it is a time of joy, which brings all before us at first in a festal mood.

Nor must we pass by that astonishing utterance of Menelaus to his servant who proposed to turn
away the guests: "Thou prattlest silly things like a child, verily have we come hither partaking
of the hospitable fare of other men." Therefore we ought to give that which we have received.
One likes to note these touches of humanity in the old heathen Greek; he too knew and applied
the Golden Rule. The wisdom of life here peers forth in the much-traveled Menelaus; suffering
has taught him to consider others; sorrow he has experienced, but it has brought its best reward--compassion.
This sorrow at once breaks forth in response to the admiration of Telemachus for the outward
splendor of his palace and possessions.

The Spartan king takes a short retrospect of life as it has been allotted him; the sighs well
out between his words as he tells his story. Eight years he wandered after the taking of Troy;
for he passed across the sea, to Egypt, even to Æthiopia and Lybia, which he portrays as a
wonderland of golden plenty. But while he was gone, "gathering much wealth," his brother Agamemnon
was slain; "therefore, small joy I have bearing rule over these possessions." But chiefly he
laments the loss of one man, on account of whom "sleep and food become hateful to me when I
think upon him." That man is Ulysses, who has suffered more than any other Greek. Thus a strong
deep stream of sympathy breaks forth from the heart of Menelaus, and the son, hearing his father's
name, holds up the purple mantle before his eyes, shedding the tear. A strong unconscious bond
of feeling at once unites both.

How can we fail to notice the clear indication of purpose in these passages! The Poet brings
Menelaus, as the culmination of his story, to strike the chord which stirs most profoundly
the soul of Telemachus. The son is there to inquire concerning his father; without revealing
himself he learns much about the character and significance of his parent. The same artistic
forethought is shown, when, at this sad moment, Helen enters, the primal source of all these
calamities, in a glorious manifestation of her beauty. Telemachus sees or may see, embodied
in her the very essence of Greek spirit, that which had to be restored to Hellas from Asia,
if Hellas was to exist. The Poet likens her to a Goddess, and places her in surroundings which
are to set off her divine appearance. In her case, too, we notice the distant background: Egyptian
presents she has, as well as Menelaus, "a golden distaff and a silver basket bound in gold."
Mementos from far-off wonderland are woven into the speech and character of the famous pair.

Now for a true female trait. Helen at once recognizes the young stranger as the son of Ulysses,
wherein she stands in contrast to her husband Menelaus, who, in spite of his thinking about
his friend just at that moment, had failed to see before him the son of that friend. But no
sooner had the woman laid eyes upon Telemachus than she personally identified him. When the
wife had spoken the words of immediate insight and instinct, the wise husband sees the truth
and gives his reasons. When the fact has been told him, he can easily prove it.

Supremely beautiful is this appearance of Helen in the Odyssey; she is the completion of what
we saw and knew of her in the Iliad. Now she is restored to home and country, after her long
alienation; still she has lurking moments of self-reproach on account of her former deeds.
Though she has repented and has been received back, she cannot forget, ought not to forget
the past altogether. The conduct of the husband is most noble in these scenes; he has forgiven
her fully, never upbraiding, never even alluding to her fatal act, excepting in one passage
possibly, in which there is a gentle palliation of her behavior: "Thou camest to the place,
moved by some divinity who wished to give glory to the Trojans." The husband will not blame
her, she acted under the stimulus of a God. The fallen woman restored is the divinest of all
pictures; we wonder again at the far-reaching humanity of the old bard; to-day she would hardly
be taken back and forgiven by the world as completely as she is in the pages of Homer. She
is indeed a new Helen, standing forth in the purest radiance within the shining palace of Menelaus.
Long shall the world continue to gaze at her there.

Telemachus is to see and to hear Helen; that is, indeed, one of his supreme experiences. But
it is not here a matter of superficial staring at a beautiful woman; all that Helen is, the
total cycle of her spirit's history, is to enter his heart and become a vital portion of his
discipline. It is probable that the youth does not realize every thing that Helen means and
is; still he beholds her, and that in itself is an education. Helen is not merely a figure
of voluptuous beauty, which captivates the senses; she bears in her the experience of complete
humanity; she has erred, she has transformed her error, she has been restored to that ethical
order which she had violated. All of which the young man is to see written in her face, and
to feel in her words and conduct, though he may not consciously formulate it in his thought.
This is the true beauty of Helen, not simply the outer sensuous form, though she possesses
that too. She could not be the ideal of the Greek world, if she were merely an Oriental enchantress;
indeed it is just the function of the Greeks to rescue her from such a condition, which was
that of Helen in Troy.

Already the heart of Menelaus is full at the thought of his friend Ulysses, and he warms toward
the latter's son now present. He again utters words of sympathetic sorrow. All are touched;
all have lost some dear relative at Troy; it is a moment of overpowering emotion. The four
people weep in common; it is but an outburst; they rally from their sorrow, Menelaus commands:
"Let us cease from mourning and think of the feast."

It is at this point that Helen again interposes. Her experience of life has been the deepest,
saddest, most complete of all, she has mastered her conflicts, inner and outer, and reached
the haven of serenity; she can point out the way of consolation. In fact it is her supreme
function to show to others what she has gone through, and thereby save them, in part at least,
the arduous way. For is not the career of every true hero or heroine vicarious to a certain
degree? Assuredly, if they mean any thing to the sons and daughters of men. Helen can bring
the relief, and does so in the present instance.

She fetches forth that famous drug, the grand antidote for grief and passion, and all life's
ills, the true solacer in life's journey. It had been given her by an Egyptian woman, Polydamna,
whom she had met in her wanderings, and it had evidently helped to cure her lacerated soul.
Again Egypt lies in the background, as it does everywhere in this Book, the veritable wonderland,
from which many miraculous blessings are sent. Moreover it is the land of potent drugs, "some
beneficial and some baneful;" its physicians too, are celebrated as excelling all men. Still
more curious is the fact that women possess the secret of medicine as well as men, and Polydamna
may be set down as the first female doctor--she who gave the wonderful drug to Helen. Surely
there is nothing new under the sun.

This marvelous drug, often called Nepenthe from one of its attributes, has naturally aroused
much curiosity among the many-minded readers of Homer down the ages. Some have held that it
was an herb, which they have pointed out in the valley of the Nile. Others hold it to be opium
literally, though it does not here put to sleep or silence the company. On the other hand allegory
has tried its hand at the word. Certain ancients including Plutarch found in it an emblem hinting
the charm of pleasing narrative. As Helen at once passes to story-telling about Ulysses at
Troy, changing from sad reminiscences of the dead to stirring deeds of living men, we may suppose
that this has something to do with her Nepenthe, which changes the mind from inward to outward,
from emotion to action. The magic charm seems to work potently when she begins to talk. Through
her, the artist as well as the ideal, we make the transition into the Heroic Tale of the olden
time, of which she gives a specimen.

2. Very naturally the Trojan scene is next taken, that greatest deed of the Greek race, being
that which really made it a new race, separating it from the Orient and giving it a new destiny.
Helen now tells to the company myths, particularly the labors of Ulysses. She narrates how
he came to Troy in the disguise of a beggar; none knew him, "but I alone recognized him," as
she had just recognized Telemachus. Thus she celebrates the cunning and bravery of Ulysses;
but she also introduces a fragment of her own history: "I longed to return home, and I lamented
the infatuation which Venus sent upon me." She wished to be restored to her husband who was
"in no respect lacking in mind or shape." We must not forget that the husband was before her
listening; she does not forget her skill. Also Telemachus was present and hears her confession
of guilt and her repentance--important stages in her total life, which he is to know, and to
take unto himself.

Menelaus has also his myth of Ulysses at Troy, which he now proceeds to tell. It brings before
us the Wooden Horse, really the thought of Ulysses, though wrought by Epeios, by which the
hostile city was at last captured. Here the Odyssey supplies a connecting link between itself
and the Iliad, as the latter poem closes before the time of the Wooden Horse. Ulysses is now
seen to be the Hero again, he is the man who suppresses emotion, especially domestic emotion
in himself and others for the great end of the war. It suggests also the difficulty of Ulysses;
he had so long suppressed his domestic instincts, and done without the life of the family,
that he will have great trouble in overcoming the alienation--whereof the Odyssey is the record.
In this story of Menelaus, Helen has her part too; she came to the Wooden Horse, "imitating
in voice the wives of all the Greek leaders," who were deeply moved, yet restrained themselves
except one, Anticlus, "over whose mouth Ulysses clapped his powerful hands, and saved the Greeks."
Truly a strong image of the suppression of feeling in himself and in others.

But why did Helen do thus? Was it a hostile act on her part? Menelaus hints that it was at
least very dangerous to the Greeks, though he delicately lays the blame of it on some God,
"who must have inspired thee." She was testing the Greeks whom she supposed to be inside the
horse. Will they answer the call of their wives? Do they still retain their affection for their
families? Above all, does Menelaus love me still? Such was her test, in which we witness another
of her many gifts. At any rate, she is not yet free, she is still married in Troy, though the
hour of her release be near.

With these two stories, the note changes; the sad turn of the talk is transformed into a quiet
earnest joy, the sorrows of the present vanish in the glorious memories of the past. The moment
Troy is introduced, the narrative becomes an Heroic Tale, a sort of Iliad, with its feats of
arms. Thus we hear the story of Ulysses while at Troy, giving two instances of his craft and
his daring. Next we are to hear of him after his Trojan experience, this now theme will give
the new poem, the Odyssey, which, however, is seen to interlink at many points with the Iliad.

But this is sufficient, night has come on, Telemachus has heard and beheld enough for one day.
Helen disappears from the scene, she has contributed her share, her own selfhood, to the experience
of the young man. Telemachus has seen Helen, and thus attained one supreme purpose of Greek
education. Never can that face, beautiful still, yet stamped with all the vicissitudes of human
destiny, pass out of his mind; never can that life of hers with its grand transformation pass
out of his soul. The reader, too, has at this point to bid good-bye to Homer's Helen, the most
lasting creation of a woman that has yet appeared upon our planet. A power she has, too, of
continuous re-embodiment; every poet seeks to call her up afresh, that is, if he be a poet.
It may be said that each age has some incarnation of Helen; the Greek myth for two thousand
years, Medieval legend, even Teutonic folk-lore have caught up her spirit and incorporated
it in new forms. The last great singer of the ages has in our own time, evoked her ghost once
more in the shining palace of Menelaus at Sparta. Farewell, Helen, for this time, but we shall
meet thee again; yesterday thou didst show thyself in a new book under a new garb, to-morrow
thou art certain to appear in another. Thine is the power to re-create thyself in the soul
of man with every epoch and in every country. Great is that discipline of Telemachus, which
we still to-day have to seek: he has seen Helen.

3. The preceding story was the Heroic Tale, which goes back to the Past, especially to Troy,
as the grand deed done by the united Hellenic race, whereof the Iliad is a sample. But now
we enter a new field, and a new sort of composition, which, in default of a better name, we
shall call the Fairy Tale. Helen is not now present, nor is her struggle the theme; Menelaus,
the man, is to recount his experience in his return to Hellas.

The story is inspired by the desire of Telemachus to know about his father. As that father
is not present the question arises, Where is he? Menelaus will undertake to answer the question
by a tale which shadows forth the Distant and the Future--a prophetic tale, which casts its
glance through the veil of Time and Space.

A mythical figure appears, Proteus, the Old Man of the Sea, who is to foretell to the inquiring
mortal what may be needful for his safety. Not an Olympian God is Proteus, yet a supernatural
shape standing between man and deity and mediating the two, the human and the divine. For it
is Proteus who sends Menelaus back to the Gods whom he has neglected and offended.

The Fairy Tale which we are now to consider, is not to be looked upon as an allegory; it is
a story with incident, movement, character, all in their own right, and not for the sake of
something else. But we must not, on this account, imagine that it has no thought; in fact,
the Fairy Tale is just the way in which primitive peoples think. It has thought, often the
profoundest thought, which darts through it, not steadily, but fitfully in flashes at the important
links, like electric sparks. This thought we are to catch and hold, and not rest satisfied
with the mere outer form of the story.

Persons we can always find who are strongly prepossessed against seeing any meaning in the
Fairy Tale, or in the Mythus. Modern usage of these literary forms, doubtless, justifies such
an opinion. Still we must remember that Homer was not playing, but thinking with his Fairy
Tale; he had no technical terms, and almost no abstract language for expressing thought; the
day of philosophic reflection had not yet dawned upon Greece. Homer has a great and deep thought
to utter, but his utterance is and must be mythical. His problem, too, he has, and it is spiritual;
the Mythus is his statement, honest, earnest, final. No, he was not playing at story-telling,
though it must have given him pleasure; nor was his object merely to delight somebody, though
he certainly has delighted many by his song. He was the true Poet, upholding his own worth
and that of his vocation; he was loyal to the Muse whose word he must sing whether it find
listeners or not. Homer built his legendary structure to live in, not to play in; with all
his sportiveness, he is a deeply earnest man; if his Zeus sometimes takes on a comic mask,
it is because Providence is a humorist. Homer, when he mythologizes, is thinking, thinking
as profoundly as the philosopher, and both are seeking to utter to men the same fundamental
thought. The reader is to think after the poet, if not in the immediate mythical form, then
in the mediate, reflective way.

The present Tale seeks to give an answer to the two main questions of Telemachus: Where is
my father now? And, Will he return home? To answer the one question requires a knowledge of
what is distant in Space; to answer the other question requires a knowledge of what is distant
in Time. Can we not see that herein is an attempt to rise out of that twofold prison of the
spirit, Space and Time, into what is true in all places and times? In other words, Menelaus
unfolds in a mythical form, the Universal to his young pupil, and we may now see in what manner
he gives the lesson.

He leaps at once into the middle of his theme; he was in Egypt and detained there by the Gods,
"though longing to return home." Such is the great initial fact, he did not do his duty to
the Gods. Without their aid or without their adequate recognition, he seeks to come home. This
indicates the spiritual difficulty; he is indifferent to or a disbeliever in the Divine. The
Gods are the upholders of the world-order, they are the law and the spirit of the reality.
Clearly Menelaus could not or did not fit himself into the providential system. Neglect of
the Gods--that detains him, must detain him. The result is, he and his companions are wasting
away on an island, without any chance of return.

The question of the hour is, How shall I get out of the difficulty? Only in one way: Acknowledge
the Gods, put yourself into harmony with their order, then the outer world and the inner man
will be one, and must bring about the deed, which is the return. We are now to witness the
process whereby this reconciliation between man and the Gods takes place--surely the supreme
matter in life. It is told in the form of the Fairy Tale or Marvelous Legend, which shifts
and changes; we, however, must cling to the essence else it will escape us, Proteus himself
we must hold fast, and not be misled by his many appearances.

Menelaus begins to feel sorrow, which is a penitent condition antecedent to all help. Moreover
he wanders alone, he has gone apart from his companions; behold, the Goddess steps out of the
air and speaks. She reproaches him with folly, and turns him to the deity who can assist him.
Who is this Goddess?

It is Eidothea, the Goddess of Appearance, yet the daughter of Proteus, the old First One,
to whom she directs Menelaus, as the only means of salvation. Mark how she designates Proteus:
"he is the true, the immortal; without error, without death; he knows the depths of all the
sea"--the great sea of Time and Space, which envelops the poor mortal. But he must be snared
and held--surely not an easy task it is to catch him.

The etymology of the names of these two deities indicates their meaning and relation. The grand
dualism of the world is clearly suggested: Appearance and Substance, the Transitory and the
Eternal, that which seems and that which is. Menelaus had gone astray, he had neglected the
Gods, he had followed Appearance, Delusion, Negation; the result could only be death. But even
Appearance points to something beyond itself, something true and eternal. So Eidothea suggests
Proteus, who is her parent; that is, she is the manifestation of his being. She is the many,
he is the one underneath and in the many; she is change, he is the permanent in all change.
He may well be designated as her father, whose transformations she knows and declares. These
transformations are called his tricks or stratagems, the shapes he puts on in the world of
Appearance; they are indeed Eidothea herself along with her voice telling what is higher than
herself.

When this one first principle is clearly revealed, then all is revealed; the future becomes
transparent, and the distant becomes near. But you must hold fast to the one true Proteus;
he will turn to fire--hold fast; he will become running water--hold fast; he will change to
tree, beast, reptile--hold fast. Then he will show himself in his right shape, and will speak
the fact. Hold fast; the One is under all, and is a God, who will lift the veil of Space and
Time from the visage of Truth. But unquestionably the man in his desperate struggle must never
forget the injunction. Hold fast to old Proteus.

We must note, too, that the poet has shown Menelaus as prepared to receive this divine revelation;
the Greek wanderer has been brought to contrition by manifold sufferings. "I surely must have
sinned against the Immortals," is his penitent outcry. Thus he is ready for the new truth,
and the voice of the Goddess speaks, when he is internally in condition to hear it. The divine
word is not forced upon him; he must do his share even toward creating the same within himself.
Now, along the shore of the sea, "he prays the Gods fervently," ere he goes to his task. Egyptian
Proteus he seeks to catch and to hold, for it is Proteus who is to point out to him the way
of reconciliation with Zeus and the Olympian Gods.

Stress is strongly laid by the poet upon the fact that Proteus is of Egypt. Evidently, in the
mind of Homer, the thought of this Fourth Book connects with the land of the Nile. What hint
lies in that? The highest wisdom of Egypt, indeed, of the Orient, is just this grand distinction
between Appearance and Substance, the Transitory and the Eternal, the Many and the One. What
Egypt gave to Hellas is here suggested, nay, said directly. In fact, the first great step in
wisdom, is still to make the above distinction, which in many ways has been handed down to
us from the East.

But the Greeks united the two sides--that which appears and that which is, or the world of
sense, and the world of spirit--and thereby produced art, the plastic forms of Gods and Men.
Hellas brought forth to the sunlight Beauty, which Egypt never could. Even here Egyptian Proteus
leads Menelaus to the Greek Gods, and becomes himself a kind of antecedent Hellenic deity.
Egypt means to Greek Menelaus two things: first, it is a land of error, of alienation, of darkness;
secondly, it has its light, its wisdom, which, when he finds, points him homeward to Hellas,
to his own Gods.

Deeply suggestive become all these mythical hints, when we once are in touch with their spirit.
We naturally pass to the Hebrew parallel, since that other great world-historical people of
antiquity, the Israelites, had their experience also with Egypt. For them, too, it was a land
of darkness, slavery, divine estrangement. They also sought a Return, not dissimilar to the
Greek Return, to their true home. It was a long, terrible time, a wandering not on the water,
like the sea-faring Hellene, but in the wilderness and desert, like the sand-faring Semite.
All the companions (but two) were lost, and the leader also; moreover that leader was learned
in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, but had to get out of it and away from it, and lead his
people into their own possessions. Much light Egypt with all its darkness furnished to Moses
and Judea; much to Menelaus and to Hellas. So the two chief streams of human culture, the Greek
and the Hebrew, are traced back to the Egyptian source in the earliest books, or Bibles of
the two peoples themselves.

Moreover we find the form of the two grand experiences quite the same; there is a going into
Egypt, the land of dazzling riches and power and civilization; there is the misfortune and
trial in that land after a time of prosperity, finally, there is the Return home, with many
wanderings and sufferings. Both peoples bring with them what may be called the Egyptian idea,
yet each transforms it into its own spirit after its own fashion.

Still further we may follow this thought and behold it as universal. The form of separation
and return is fundamental in human spirit; this is its inherent movement, and the shape which
it imparts to the great works of literature. The very destiny of man is cast into this mould;
there is, first, his estrangement, the fall from his high estate; then is his return to harmony
with the divine order. The Hebrew Bible begins with the Fall of Man; that is the first chapter;
the rest of the book is his rise, and marks out the path of his Return which, of course, shows
many sinuosities. Such is the deepest fact of the human soul, and to image it, there springs
into existence the corresponding literary form. Not that it was taken consciously by the poet
or maker after much ratiocination; he has to take it, if he sees the universe as it is. This
form is the form of the everlasting reality, of which he has the immediate vision, it is also
the form of very selfhood, of the Ego.

Though different in many things, the Odyssey and the Bible are both, at bottom, Returns. They
restore the man after alienation. Indeed we may behold the same form as fundamental in all
Great Literary Books--in Homer, in Dante, in Shakespeare, in Goethe.

Many things connected with this catching and holding of Proteus are suggestive, but they are
the flash of the poet into the depths, and must be seen with the poetic glance, for they bear
with much loss the heavy translation into thought. How this Eidothea, the Goddess of Appearance,
turns against her own father, and helps to make him reveal himself in his true shape; how Menelaus
and his three comrades put on the skins of the sea-calves, and deceive the deceiver, applying
the latter's art of transformation to himself, and destroying appearance with appearance; how
the poor mortals almost perish through the odor of the skins of the sea-calves, thus showing
their human weakness and limitation, till ambrosia, the food of the Immortals, is brought by
the Goddess, which at once relieves them of their mortal ailment--these and other incidents
have their subtle, far-reaching hint of the supersensible world. The whole story is illumined
with one thought, how to master the material show of things and reach their spiritual inwardness.

But the chief duty of these people, now disguised to destroy disguise, is to hold the Old Man
fast when they have once caught him, that shifty, ever-changing Old Man of the Sea. Let him
turn to water, to a snake, to a lion, to a tree--hold him fast; he is the One under them all
and will at last reveal himself. Very necessary, indeed, is it to hold fast, and never let
go in the grand play of Appearances; the strength of the man is shown by his ability to hold
fast, amid the fleeting shadows of Time.

Menelaus holds the Old Man fast, and asks: What God detains me from my return? The answer comes
home strong: Thou hast neglected the sacrifice due to Zeus and the other deities; thou hast
not recognized the Gods. Verily the heart of the difficulty; Menelaus has not placed himself
in harmony with the divine order, in which he must act. What then? Go back to the beginning,
back to Egypt, and start aright; commence thy return again with the new light, recognize Zeus
and the Gods by sacrifice there, and thou shalt see home. Thus the Egyptian estrangement is
removed, the Greek hero of wisdom must reach beyond the experience of Egypt and be restored
to the Greek Gods.

At once Menelaus was ready to obey, though "his heart was broken" at the thought of recrossing
the sea to Egypt, for the "way was long and difficult." Still he will do it; and next he is
given a look into the Distant and Future, a glance into the soul of things separated from him
by Space and Time. He will know concerning the Returners, in deep accord with the spirit of
the poem. He hears of the awful death of Ajax, son of Oileus, he hears of the sad fate of his
brother Agamemnon; also the Old Man of the Sea tells him a few words concerning Ulysses, who
is still alive but cannot get away from the isle of Calypso. News just good enough to give
hope to the son who is eagerly listening, and hears that his father still lives.

Finally, Menelaus learns of his own future existence from the Old Man, who is in person the
very embodiment of what lies beyond the senses, of immortality. "The Gods have decreed thou
shalt not die, O Menelaus, but shalt dwell in the Elysian Plain, at the ends of the earth."
He is the husband of Helen, and coupled forever with her destiny; he is, through her, of the
divine family of Zeus. Such is the promise, has it not been fulfilled?

The poet thus brings to an end his Fairy Tale, with its deep-reaching glances into Egypt as
one of the antecedent sources of Hellenic civilization. We find therein hinted a double relation:
first, Egypt was the giver of much wisdom to Greece especially the distinction into Appearance
and the one First Principle; secondly, it was hostile to Greek spirit, which had to pass through
the Egyptian stage to reach its own destiny. Homer spins, in this Book, a thread which connects
the culture of Hellas with that of Egypt, So much we dare find in the present legend without
much straining. The distant background of this entire visit of Telemachus to Sparta is Egyptian
and Oriental, as we see from the talk of both Helen and Menelaus.

We may now be certain that Homer, the poet, had before him a thought of this kind: the inner
soul of things and the outward manifestation. The story of Proteus we may call not merely a
Fairy Tale, but the Fairy Tale, which images its universal self in setting forth its special
theme; it has the one meaning, which, however, takes on many varieties of external shape; it
is the essence of all Fairy Tales. Still you have to catch the Proteus and make him tell his
secret; I can only advise you to hold fast, and finally the true form of the Old Man will reveal
itself, and speak the truth of many appearances, nay, of all. In reading this poem of Homer
we are only following the poet, if we seek to lay hold of its essence under its varied manifestations.
The whole Odyssey is a Proteus, ever changing, assuming new forms, which will utterly bewilder
the reader until he reaches its first principle. Homer probably suggests that his own Fairy
Tale, nay, his own poem, is a Proteus, which must be grasped and held by the one central thought.
In fact, does not the modern reader, like ancient Menelaus, in his wanderings need an Eidothea,
an interpreter, to point out the Old Man of the Sea, the First One, and to tell how to catch
him? In the very names of Proteus and Eidothea we feel the intention, the conscious etymology
which borders on personification. Yet around this simple substrate of thought are woven so
many wonders, so many suggestions, far-hinting and deep-glancing, that it becomes truly the
Tale of Tales (Märchen aller Märchen).

The Fairy Tale will appear again in the Odyssey, and take possession of the whole poem for
a time when we come to the wanderings of Ulysses. Now it is but a slight bubbling-up of what
will be a great stream. At present it turns to the East and unfolds the Greek relation thereto;
hereafter it will turn to the West, and unfold the Greek relation thereto. Both have their
wise men, and the Return is from each direction to Greece. The distinction between them we
may suggest in advance: the one has more of the speculative, of the spirit; the other has more
of the active, of the will, though neither side excludes the other. Both men return to Hellas
as the common destination; hence, we find in this Book everywhere expressed the intimate brotherhood
between Menelaus and Ulysses.

It is of great interest to see the poet build his Fairy Tale, which is but one form of his
mythical procedure. Instinctively he builds it, as the bee does the honey-cell. He places the
God or Goddess at the center of every movement or event; by divine will it is all brought about.
The sea which stands in the way of the return of Ulysses is a deity, Poseidon; Eidothea is
a person, the voice of the world of Appearance, and she leads to Proteus, the Primal One. To
Homer personality is at the heart of this universe. Such is truly the mythical mind; all phenomena
are the product of an intelligent will, not of blind law. Not a long chain of cause and effect
hovers before Homer's soul, thus his work would be prose; but he sees self-cause at once, and
so cannot help being poetical, as well as religious. The culture of to-day tends too much to
divest us of the mythical spirit--which is not altogether a gain. Homer, if rightly studied,
will help restore that lost gift of the early ages.

But now we must turn our look to the youth for whom the tale has been told--the learner Telemachus.
He hears of the Orient and its principle; the antecedents of his people, their origins, separations,
their advance upon the older nations are significantly hinted. All this is an education. For
its function is to bring together the scattered wisdom of the Past and to give it to the youth
who is coming upon the stage of life; thus he is made the spiritual heir of all that his race
has achieved in word and deed. Telemachus has learned about the history of Troy, the great
event of the early Greek world; he has heard the Returns of the Heroes, and he has seen Helen.
But, chiefly, he has been taught the grand distinction between Appearance and Substance; he
has come to know, if he has learned his lesson, the One in the Many; he has been shown how
to reach beyond the sensuous appearances of things and enter the realm of spirit. Such is still
the best education to-day, though the manner of it be so different. There were no books in
those days, no schools but the lips of the aged; every Greek youth, to a degree, was a Telemachus,
and had a similar discipline. Tradition, song, folk-lore are also means of education; we cannot
do without the mythus even now, and we are in many ways seeking to restore it to its place
in the training of the child, and of the grown man too. Telemachus has graduated, he can now
go home; so he asks to be permitted to depart for Ithaca, where the hardest practical problem
of life is awaiting him. But mark, he carries with him the grandest of all hospitable presents:
the knowledge of the true and eternal in contrast to the unreal and transitory.

In these four Books of the Odyssey the education of the Homeric youth has been given. Next
we are to have the experiences of the man--those of the typical man Ulysses, as he works out
his own problem. Menelaus could not tell that tale; the man himself must be seen doing, overcoming
his obstacles by the deed. He will present a phase of life not known to the East, not known
to Egyptian Proteus. Thus the Odyssey will be an entire book, a veritable Bible for young and
old, with its complete cycle of human discipline.

The story of Proteus itself is Protean, and must be grasped in its essence through all its
appearances. The whole Odyssey is veritably a Protean poem as already said, whose study is
to seize the one truth which is underneath all these shifting shapes and manifold events. What
are we doing now but trying to grasp Proteus in this exposition? There is no mythus in Homer
which has wound itself so deeply and so variously into the literature of the world. It would
be an interesting history to trace its employment by later poets, and see how it has mirrored
itself in the consciousness of the ages. The last world-poet, Goethe, takes the figure of Proteus
from his eldest brother, the first world-poet, and transplants it into the Second Part of Faust,
where it has its place in the development of the modern man. The Mythus of Evolution the tale
of Proteus becomes in Goethe's hands, and hints of Darwinism long before Darwin.

Still the most significant historical fact of this Fourth Book is the connection which it makes
between Egypt and Greece. In another Greek legend, that of OEdipus, the same connection is
made through the Sphinx, whose riddle the Greek hero solves, whereat the Egyptian monster destroys
itself.

The Sphinx, the grand symbol of Egypt and chief product of its Art, may be taken as the Egyptian
starting-point for both Greece and Judea. The Sphinx is half human, half animal; the two are
put together in stone and thus stand a fixed, unreconciled contradiction. Such was just the
Sphinx-riddle of humanity to the old Egyptian: man is a beast and a spirit, linked together
without any true mediation. Both the Hebrew and the Greek sought to solve this grand riddle,
each in his own way. The Hebrew attempted to extirpate the sensuous element; he would have
no graven image, no idolatry, he would worship only the pure spirit, and obey only the divine
law. The Greek reconciled the two sides, by making the sensuous element the bearer and the
revealer of the spiritual. The animal must be subordinated to the spirit, then it can live,
nay can have a new and higher existence. Thus Art arose in Greece, and not in Judea.

The interpretations which the story of Proteus has received are simply infinite. Probably it
appeals to every reader in a somewhat different fashion; he pours into this marvelous form
certain phases of his own experience and is satisfied. Indeed Proteus is not only a Form, but
a Form of Forms for the human mind, hinting both the oneness and the multiplicity of the Ego
itself. We may go back to the Vedas and find traces of it there in some sun-myth; we may go
to the sea and find it a miraculous legend in which the Greek sailor set forth his perils and
his escapes. It certainly connects Hellas with Egypt, and suggests the movement of ancient
civilization. Menelaus in his voyage transcends the Greek world of the Trojan epoch, and brings
back the story thereof to his country. The tale of Proteus is said to have been carried back
to Egypt, where Herodotus, several hundred years after Homer, found it in a new transformation,
Proteus being a king of Egypt, who took Helen from Paris and kept her till Menelaus arrived
and received her from the Egyptian ruler. Thus the Fairy Tale raised the Old Man of the Sea
to the royal dignity, changing sovereignty from water to land. (Herodotus, II. 112-20.) Plato
makes him typical of a sophist, Schlegel of a poet, Lucian of a dancer.

We shall now take a glance backwards and give a short summary of the story, that its inner
development in the hands of the poet may be more fully seen.

1. The desolation of Menelaus and his companions on the island of Pharos; no Return possible,
death from hunger imminent. Moreover, disregard of the Gods, internal estrangement, a condition
of separation from the Divine, truly an Egyptian condition.

2. Eidothea appears to him, just the Goddess of Appearance, and points him to a power beyond
herself. Hitherto he was lost in the world of Appearance; but when he thinks of it, he separates
himself from it, and sees its nullity. So the Finite points to the Infinite, the Fleeting to
the Permanent, the Sensible to the Supersensible, Eidothea to Proteus, who is the First One,
or the First Principle underlying all Appearance, hence her father.

3. She tells also how to catch him. When he emerges from the water, source of all Forms, indeed
just the Formable (see Goethe's Faust, Part II. in the Classical Walpurgisnight), he will count
by fives all his sea-calves, or sea-forms, offspring of the sea (Halosydna). This counting
by fives, is significant, hinting the earliest abstraction from the sensuous through number,
specially by means of the five-system, though Homer knew well the decimal system (see Od. XVI,
245. Iliad II. 126). Menelaus with his companions is to take on this sea-form, and be counted
with the rest, though in disguise; then when Proteus lies down to sleep with his herds or Forms,
he is to be seized; that is, seized in repose, as he is himself, not in relation to his shapes.
They must continue to hold fast to this primal Form of Proteus, or the archetype, through all
his changes, till he resumes his first shape, "the one in which thou sawest him in repose."
Then they possess the Essence as distinct from the Phenomenon; they know that their disguise
has torn off all disguise, and attained the real.

4. Proteus will now tell Menelaus the truth devoid of all delusive shows; ere the latter can
leave Egypt and return to Greece he must put himself into harmony with the Greek Gods, Zeus
and the rest. So he has to go back to Egypt's river and start over again in the right way.
Then he will make the Return to Hellas.

5. Proteus also gives the fate of a number of Returners. Ajax he specially speaks about--Ajax,
son of Oileus (not the greater Ajax), the blasphemer, who said he would return in spite of
the Gods, and at once perished. The account of the death of Ajax has its meaning for Menelaus,
who thought of getting home with paying due regard to the Gods. Once more Agamemnon's dire
lot is told with some new incidents added. Thirdly Proteus has seen Ulysses in an ocean isle
with the nymph Calypso who detains him though eager to get away. Thus the son hears the fact
about his father. Finally Proteus prophesies the immortality of Menelaus, for has not the latter
reached beyond Appearance into the Eternal already, just by catching and holding Proteus? So
the Old Man of the Sea cannot help giving this prophecy, which lives directly in his own experience.

Though Telemachus is not told that his father is returning, still he may draw such an inference
from the story of Menelaus, who was also detained on an island longing to get home. If the
Gods, being duly recognized, will give their help in the one case, they will in the other;
they too, will come to the aid of Ulysses, when he has placed himself in harmony with them.
This is what is about to happen.

As already set forth, there are three divisions of this first part of the Fourth Book: the
simple idyllic Present at Sparta, the disrupted strifeful Past at Troy, the movement out of
the latter by way of Egypt. Taking the three divisions together, we note that they form the
total sweep of one great Return, that of Menelaus, from unity through separation back to harmony.
Thus Menelaus and also Helen are shown to have solved their problem.

But there remains the harder and deeper problem of Ithaca, which is that of Ulysses. Here enemies
have possession of the man's home, and he brings back no help, only himself. It is therefore,
a natural transition to introduce at this point the Ithacan condition which is seen to be more
difficult than the Spartan one, for Menelaus seems to have had no enemies in his house to dispute
his Return, as Agamemnon had and also Ulysses has. But Agamemnon perished, Ulysses will not.

II.

Accordingly the affairs of Ithaca are introduced, as they happened after the departure of Telemachus.
This thread is picked up from the Second Book, where he had his final conference with the Suitors
and told them his mind. We must recall that Ithaca is the abode of conflict and disorder; the
Suitors and Household of Penelope are the two antagonistic elements; upon both the secret departure
of Telemachus explodes like a bomb, and brings the characters of each side to the surface.

Telemachus stands in relation to the Suitors as well as to his mother; both are putting their
restraints upon him which he has broken through and asserted his freedom, his new manhood.
One, however, is the restraint of hate, the other is the restraint of love; both stand in the
way of his development. He must get his great education in defiance of Suitors and of mother.
The attitudes of these two parties are described, and form the two divisions of this second
part of the Fourth Book.

1. The Suitors, when they hear of the deed of Telemachus, are not only surprised but startled,
and they at once recognise that a new power has risen which threatens to punish their misdeeds.
The youth has plainly become a man, a man showing the skill and courage of his father, and
with the sense of wrong burning in his breast. Already he has declared that he would wreak
vengeance upon them, the day of reckoning seems to have dawned. Previously they despised his
warnings as the helpless babble of a mere boy; now they have to meet him, returning, possibly,
with help from his father's friends.

What will the Suitors do? The most audacious one, Antinous, is ready with a proposal. The boy
will prove a pest, we must waylay him on his return and murder him. Such is their final act
of wrong, which is now accepted by all, and the proposer gets ready to carry out his plan.
Hitherto it may be said the Suitors had a certain right, the right of suit, which, however,
becomes doubtful through the uncertainty about the death of the husband, and through the unwillingness
of the wife. But now their guilt is brought out in strong colors, there can be no question
about it. They man a boat and lie in wait for their prey on a little island which the youth
has to pass in coming home.

2. The mother Penelope hears of the daring act of her boy, done without her consent or knowledge.
The news is brought to her, just as she is recounting the goodness of Ulysses and the wrongs
of the Suitors. This new misfortune, for so it seemed to her, is quite too great a burden to
bear; she breaks out into lamentations find recites her woes: a husband lost and now a son
in the greatest danger. But she is to get both human and divine consolation. Eurycleia, the
old nurse, confesses to her part in the affair, and advises the queen "to put on fresh garments
and to pray to Pallas, ascending to the upper chamber."

Pallas sends to the distressed mother a refreshing sleep and a consoling dream, which we may
consider to have been suggested by the words of Eurycleia. Her sister who dwelt far away, appears
to her and says that her son, guided by Pallas, will surely return. Doubtless we see here an
expression of the deepest instinct of Penelope; the outer suggestion of the nurse and her own
unconscious faith fuse together and form the phantom and give to the same an utterance. The
youth who can plan and carry out such an expedition will probably be able to take care of himself.
Penelope of course has some doubt, since the good Ulysses has had to suffer so much from the
Gods. About him, too, she will know and so inquires of the phantom. Doth he live? But the shadowy
image can tell nothing, the act of Ulysses lies not in its field of vision, it declines to
speak further and vanishes.

Thus Telemachus has broken through the two restraints which held him in bondage at his Ithacan
home, both keeping down his manly endeavor. The first comes from the Suitors and is the restraint
of hate, which would give him no opportunity in the world of action, and in addition is destroying
his possessions. The second restraint springs from love, and yet is injurious. The solicitude
of the mother keeps him back from every enterprise; having lost her husband, as she deems,
by his too adventuresome spirit, she is afraid of losing her boy for the same reason, and is
in danger of losing him anyhow, by making him a cipher. Such are the two obstacles in Ithaca
which Telemachus is shown surmounting and asserting therein his freedom and manhood. The whole
is a flash of his father's mettle, he is already the unconscious Ulysses; no wonder that he
inquires after his parent in Pylos and Sparta. The poet will now carry him forward to the point
where he will actually meet and know Ulysses himself; the son is to advance to direct communion
with his great father.

Here the Fourth Book, or rather the Telemachiad, reaches out and connects with the Ithakeiad,
which begins in the Thirteenth Book. Ulysses returns to Ithaca and steals to the hut of the
swineherd Eumæus; Telemachus comes back from Sparta, and, avoiding the ambush of the Suitors,
seeks the same faithful servant. Thus father and son are brought together, and prepare themselves
for their heroic task.

But before this task can be accomplished, the grand experience of Ulysses is to be told in
the eight following Books (V-XII); that is, we are now to have the Ulyssiad, just as we have
had the Telemachiad. Father and son are now separated from home and country; both are to return
through a common deed of heroism.

General Observations. Looking back at the Telemachiad (the first four Books) we observe that
it constitutes a very distinct member of the total organism of the Odyssey. So distinct is
it that some expositors have held that it is a separate poem, not an integral portion of the
entire action. The joint is, indeed, plain at this place, still it is a joint of the poetic
body, and not a whole poetic body by itself. Only too easy is it for our thought to dwell in
division, separation, scission, analysis; let us now turn to the opposite and more difficult
habit of mind, that of uniting, harmonizing, making the synthesis of what seems disjointed.
In other words let us find the bonds of connection between the last four Books and the coming
eight Books, or between the Telemachiad and the Ulyssiad.

1. We have already noticed the three grand Returns, rising one above the other to the culmination--that
of Nestor, of Menelaus, of Ulysses. Now the first two are told in the Telemachiad; but they
openly lead up to the third, which is the complete Return, and which is just the theme of the
Ulyssiad. Nestor makes the immediate Return, without conflict, through Greece, but he points
directly to Menelaus, and foreshadows the coming of Ulysses. Menelaus, however, prophesies
the third Return, and thus directly joins his account with the Ulyssiad. In this manner we
see and feel the intimate bond between these two grand divisions of the total Odyssey.

2. We notice the same general movement in the Telemachiad and in the Ulyssiad; the same fundamental
scheme underlies both. There is the real Present, in the one case Ithaca, Pylos, Sparta, in
the other ease Phæacia; then there is in the same heroic Past the Trojan war and its deeds
of valor; thirdly there is a movement in both to an ideal world, to a Fableland, outside of
Hellas and beyond even Troy; finally there is a Return in both to Greece and to the Present.
Setting the stages of this movement down in definite numbers, we have, first in the Telemachiad:
(1) Hellas, the Present; (2) back to Troy, the Past, in the reminiscences of Nestor, Menelaus,
Helen; (3) forward to the Fairy World in the account of Proteus; (4) return to Ithaca at the
end of the Fourth Book. Secondly in the Ulyssiad we may here note in advance the same general
movement: (1) Phæacia, the Present; (2) back to Troy in the strains of Demodocus; (3) forward
to the Fairy World of Polyphemus and Circe; (4) return to Ithaca in the Thirteenth Book. Thus
we reach down and grasp the fundamental norm according to which the poet wrought, and which
holds in unity all the differences between these two divisions of the poem. The spiritual basis
of this movement, its psychological ground, we shall endeavor to unfold more fully hereafter.

3. In correspondence with the preceding, we can distinguish in both divisions the same kinds
of style: (1) the symple Idyllic Tale of the Present; (2) the Heroic Tale recounting the Past
and specially the Trojan war; (3) the Fairy Tale which introduces a supernatural realm. Each
of these styles is poetic, yet with its own coloring and character. Here again we should observe
the author employing his fundamental norm of composition a second time, and thus re-asserting
himself as the same person in both divisions of the poem--in the Telemachiad as well as in
the Ulyssiad.

4. In each division, again, there is a supreme woman at the center of domestic life--Penelope
in the one, Arete in the other, each being wife and mother, each supremely faithful to her
institution, the Family. This predominance and glorification of the married woman and the home
constitute a common characteristic of both divisions, and show the same fundamental conception
of her worth, as well as of her position in the social order. It may be doubted if Modern Literature
has improved upon this Homeric representation.

5. Then the contrasts between the Telemachiad and the Ulyssiad link them together. Disturbed
Ithaca, peaceful Phæacia; the theoretic education of the son, the practical discipline of the
father; Telemachus, the son of his father, Nausicaa, the daughter of her mother, the Ithacan
boy and the Phæacian girl--such are a few of these contrasts. Finally father and son, strongly
contrasted, yet having their unity in this family of which they are members, suggest the unity
of the poem of which they are characters.

These bonds of connection are so strong that they overbalance all discrepancies of single passages,
interpolations, and inconsistencies of detail. Still, if the mind of the critic refuses the
general sweep, and insists upon prying asunder the joints, and upon looking through its microscope
at the little things, it will find only separation, discord, and many small Homers instead
of a single great Homer. The particular always divides, but the general unites; so the Homeric
poems will have two sets of reader, the dividers and the unifiers.

The Education of Telemachus. This is another name, which we have frequently used, for the Telemachiad.
The Homeric youth is also to get his training for life; he is to find and to take possession
of his inheritance transmitted from the Past. The general statement of this educational fact
occurs frequently in the work: Telemachus wishes to know about his father. That is his immediate
inquiry, which will extend to knowing something about the fathers and what they did; then his
investigation will go beyond the fathers and the Greek world, reaching over into Egypt and
the East. The function of education is to put into possession of the coming man the wisdom
of the Past, and specially the means for acquiring this wisdom; then he can transmit the intelligence
of the race to those who are to follow him. So Telemachus has attained the age when he must
know ancestral wisdom. Such is his strong instinct, he feels his limitation, he is penned up
in a narrow life at Ithaca, whose barriers cramp his free spirit. This intense desire for education,
for finding out something about the world in which he is placed, is the starting point for
the boy. He shows his spirit by breaking through the restraint of the Suitors and his mother
in order to get an education. Like many a youth to-day, he has to leave home, has to run away,
in fact, that he may have his opportunity. What does he get? Or, what is the content of this
education! Let us see.

1. We find that he gets a fair amount of religious training. He has been led through the misfortunes
of his House to question the goodness of Providence and the superintendence of the Gods. But
Minerva gives him a strong lesson, so does Nestor. He obtains a glimpse of the Divine Order,
and feels the necessity of keeping in harmony with the same. The outcome of his visit must
impress him with the providential side in human action.

2. He sees new countries, talks with famous men, and partakes of their wisdom. Chiefly, however,
he hears of the grand Return in its manifold phases; he learns the story of those who failed,
of those who reached home, like Nestor and Menelaus. Great is the lesson; this Return images
the movement of the soul, the breach within and the restoration. It is remotely his own inner
life outlined, and that of every man; Telemachus has just made a separation from home and country,
to which he must come back and be reconciled. His own soul-form he must dimly feel in the great
Return of the Heroes from Troy, and their various destinies he must recognize to be his own
possibilities.

3. Telemachus the aspiring youth, is trying to recover his patrimony, which is of two kinds,
physical and spiritual. The Suitors are destroying the one, and keeping it out of his hands;
with them is one conflict, that of justice. But he must also inherit his father's mental riches;
he has to separate from home and his mother to find this form of wealth or even to learn of
its nature. So Telemachus has his Trojan expedition, not so great in itself, yet, adventurous
enough for a boy. He is moving on the lines of his father when the latter went to Troy--a national
affair; but his deed is a breaking loose from boyhood--the breach out of which he is to come
back a man.

4. The form of this educative process of the Odyssey is very different from ours. It seizes
hold of the mythical element in man, and the reader of to-day is to penetrate to the meaning
by something of an effort. Telemachus is to see Helen; what does that signify in education?
He is to hear the Tale of Proteus and feel its purport in relation to his own discipline. One
asks: Is not this imaginative form still a vital element of education? The Odyssey has been
and is now a school-book of the race.

THE ULYSSIAD.

We have now reached the second grand division of the poem, the Odyssey proper, which we have
named under necessity the Ulyssiad, and which gives an account of the adventures of Ulysses
before he comes to Ithaca and joins Telemachus. If the division which we have just had may
be called the education of a youth, this division may be called the discipline of a man through
experience of the world. The whole embraces eight Books, fifth to twelfth inclusive, with a
little of the thirteenth. There is no doubt that this is the most subtly constructed piece
of writing in existence, transparent in the highest degree, and yet profound as thought itself.
We may therefore, look a little at the structure in advance.

The first thing to be noticed is that there are two very distinct movements in the present
division. On the one hand the action moves through three separate localities--Ogygia or Calypso's
Island, Phæacia, Fableland. This external movement of the poem has its inner counterpart, which
the reader is to penetrate. On the other hand there is the movement of the individual, the
Hero Ulysses, who begins with Fableland, passes through Ogygia and comes to Phæacia. This movement
also has its corresponding internal significance. As the first movement is that of the poem,
or of the world, we may call it objective; as the second movement is that of the individual
man, we may call it subjective. The two together, accordingly, spin the two strands of the
world and of man into the one thread of existence. Both we shall consider.

I.

The objective sweep with its three localities is coupled with geographical names which have
given to the erudite guild a great deal of trouble, with very small reward. In general these
names of places may be deemed to be mythical, yet with certain far-off gleams of actual lands.
Much more distinct and real is their spiritual significance. The objective movement shadows
forth the movement of society, the rise of civilization, the becoming of the institutional
world, which is here unfolded through three stages in the following order:--

    1. Ogygia.
    2. Phæacia.
    3. Fableland.

1. Ogygia is the pure product of nature without cultivation or with very little. It is the
place where the natural man must conquer his appetites, and long for, and finally seek for,
a realm of order. Calypso is the concealer, she who conceals spirit in the jungle of nature.
Here, then, occurs the primordial breach between the physical and spiritual, out of which an
institutional world can rise.

2. Phæacia now appears, in which we behold the fundamental institutions of man, Family and
State, in their primitive idyllic condition, yet transcendently pure and beautiful. The evolution
of this new order from the savage Cyclops is hinted in the poem. Only after Calypso is put
aside, do Arete the wife and Nausicaa the maid become possible. Upon such a foundation a social
system can be developed, with commerce, navigation, etc. Still further, Phæacia can begin to
mirror itself in art, as it does here in the songs of the bard, and also in games.

3. Fableland comes next, really a product of self-conscious art. In it are set forth the struggles
which arise between man and the civilized order. Phæacia is the simple condition of peace;
man is in complete harmony with himself and his institutional environment. But what if he falls
out with both? That will be a new stage, represented by a new set of beings, who are to indicate
not so much the conflict with nature as the conflict with spirit. The world of reality is transcended,
marvelous shapes sweep into view, Polyphemus, Circe, the Sirens, even the supersensible realm
of Hades--all of which, however, must await a special exposition. Still we should note that
after this ideal realm of struggle and desperate enterprise comes the real world of strife,
Ithaca, which is to be harmonized by the man who has passed through this Fableland, and has
reached an ideal harmony in Phæacia.

II.

We soon find that Ulysses has been thrown back to Calypso's Isle from Fableland, of which in
a certain sense it is the continuation. The circle which he has passed through is, therefore,
the following:--

    1. Fableland.
    2. Ogygia.
    3. Phæacia.

This is, then, the movement of the individual, in contrast with the previous sweep of the poem
as a whole, which represents the movement of the world. Both are bound together, both pass
through the same stages, though in a different order. The process of social development begins
with the state of Nature, with Ogygia, unfolds into a simple institutional life, into Phæacia,
which then enters into certain negative phases, such as are seen in Fableland. But the man
from Troy, Ulysses, begins with the last, and is whelmed back into the first, and finally rests
in the second before going to Ithaca. Let us note this personal movement in a little more detail.

1. Ulysses passes into Fableland, having wantonly done a deed of violence against civilized
life and order by destroying the city of the Ciconians (Book IX), as he was returning from
the Trojan War. Such is the negative element in him, which has been engendered by that war,
and which now appears in various manifestations, such as his doings with Polyphemus and Circe,
till his career in Fableland winds up with destroying the Oxen of the Sun. This is the extreme
negative act which throws him back beyond Circe's into Calypso's realm. He assaults really
his own will in this last act, he undermines his own power of recovery, he puts out his own
light. Circe would have sent him forward again, leaving intact his will-power; Calypso detains
him lulled in the sensuous delights of her bower. He denies his own reason; how then can he
rise after a fall? Indeed what use is there of rising? So he sinks down into Ogygia, the Dark
Island.

2. It is no wonder, therefore, that he remained with Calypso seven years and more, draining
to the dregs the cup of that life. Still he has desire to return home, must have it, he must
possess reason to deny reason. He longs for what he has not, sensuous charms cannot drown his
aspiration; such is the Hell in which he has placed himself. Still even here when he has passed
his probation, he must be released by a decree of the Gods, who, formerly favorable to Neptune,
the divine foe of Ulysses, have now become friendly to Minerva, the Hero's protectress. Why
this change in the everlasting powers? When Ulysses is ready to leave Ogygia, the Gods cannot
keep him there, they have to change; the divine Order must help him escape, if it be divine.
This is just what happens; Zeus, voice of the Olympian law, commands his departure, and Calypso
must obey.

3. Ulysses, then, comes to Phæacia, an institutional land with social, domestic, and political
life. From the grot of Calypso he passes to the home of Arete; both woman and man are in an
ethical relation. He sees a world of peace and harmony, he witnesses the corrective of his
own negative Trojan experience. He, having taken Phæacia into himself, has a remedy for distracted
Ithaca; he has beheld an ideal to which he can adjust his own land. He was not the man to bring
civil order to Ithaca just after the destruction of Troy; now he has passed through his own
destructive phases, has become conscious of them, has told them to the Phæacians, which long
account has in it the character of a confession. All is given in a mythical form, but it is
none the less an acknowledgment of error from first to last. He is the poetical confessor of
himself, and the Phæacians are contemplating the grand experience in the mirror of art.

We may now see the reason why the poet began the story of Ulysses with the stay at Calypso's
Isle. Thus the poem unfolds in the order of society, starting with the state of nature, passing
thence to a civilized condition, and showing finally the conflicts of the same with the negative
forces which develop in its own bosom. Homer could have landed Ulysses at Phæacia, and could
have made the Ulyssiad start in that sphere, placing Calypso's Book just after the account
of the slaughter of the Oxen of the Sun. But what a loss would that have been! No social development
would thus be suggested in the movement of the poem, and the individual Ulysses would have
to pass, not from institutional Phæacia, but from savage Ogygia to the reformation of Ithaca.
In this way we realize to ourselves the true instinct, or perchance the profound thought which
underlies the structure of this portion of the poem.

Thus we conceive the double movement of the Ulyssiad through its three main stages, in which
we feel strongly emphasized the idea of development, of a genetic process. These lands and
peoples are generated by the wanderer's own spirit, though they all exist in their own right
and are carefully set down in Homeric geography. Ogygia is the product of Ulysses himself,
and so he goes thither to the reality. The misfortunes in these lands are the very deeds of
the offenders returning upon them. As the Gods are both subjective and objective, so are these
poetic places and persons; they are both in Ulysses and outside of him, they are the inner
change of the individual and the outer development of the world. Each, however, fits into the
other, is inseparably intertwined with the other; both together form the double movement which
is the fundamental structural fact of the present division of the Odyssey.

Of course our unfolding of the subject must follow the movement of the poem, but we shall not
neglect the movement of the individual. Accordingly Calypso's Island, Ogygia, is the realm
which is to be first considered.

BOOK FIFTH.

In this Book the reader will observe two distinct parts, which are so often found in Homer
and constitute the deepest distinction in his poems: these two parts are the Upper World of
the Gods and the Lower World of Man, both of which are shown in action and counteraction. The
grand dualism between the mortal and the immortal is fused into a living narrative and makes
the warp and woof of Homeric poesy. The general purport of both parts is seen to be the same
at bottom: it is to remove the obstacles which stand in the way of the Return of Ulysses to
home and country. These obstacles arise from the Gods above and from Nature below--the divine
and the physical, though the latter also is presided over by deities. Thus the Greek hero,
with the aid of the higher Gods, is to put down the lower ones, or convert them into aids for
his advancement towards the grand end, which is his institutional life in Family and State.
In this way only can Ulysses, from his alienation, attain unto harmony with himself and with
the Divine Order.

The first part of the Book gives the Council of the Gods and its consequences reaching down
to the mortal who is the subject of deliberation. We shall note three stages in this movement
from Olympus to Earth: (1) Zeus to Hermes, (2) Hermes to Calypso, (3) Calypso to Ulysses. Thus
from the highest the decree is brought below and opens the providential way.

The second part deals with the mortal, who is brought into relation with three Gods, all representing
phases of the physical element of water: (1) Neptune, the great deity of the sea, (2) Ino Leucothea,
a lesser deity of the same, (3) the River-God, through whose channel Ulysses comes at last
to land. It is manifest that he must rise beyond these water-divinities with their uncertain
fluctuating element, and attain to the fixed earth with its life, ere he can find repose. We
shall now develop these two parts of the Book with their subdivisions in the order stated above.

I.

First then is the divine obstacle, which has to be removed by the Gods in Homer, when the individual
is ready to have it removed. This obstacle is at present centered in the Goddess Calypso, the
marvelous concealer and extinguisher of the Hero in her island Ogygia. Neptune is not here
spoken of, though his element, the sea, is mentioned as something which must also be met and
transcended; the Hero through his own will can surmount this difficulty. Verily Calypso is
the grand spiritual hindrance of Ulysses, and, to help him get rid of it, the Olympians assemble
and start the movement, the conditions being that he is internally prepared to be helped by
the Gods. Of the latter fact we shall note a number of indications hereafter.

Of this divine activity in removing the first obstacle we may distinguish three phases:--

1. The council of the Gods on Olympus under the presidency of Zeus, and the decree there.

2. Hermes is sent by the supreme deity to Calypso, with the decree.

3. Calypso imparts the decree to Ulysses, who soon sets about doing his part.

In this brief outline we see the descent of the divine influence from Zeus the Highest, through
Hermes messenger of the Gods, to Calypso, a local subordinate deity, down to the mortal Ulysses
who is to get the benefit thereof. Thus the poet makes his world-order ready for the deed of
the man, who is now to act with all the energy of his being, and not lie back expecting the
Gods to do everything for him. Such is the situation between the divine and human sides, of
which we shall elaborate the former a little more fully.

1. The council of the Gods in which the matter is now discussed, seems somewhat like a repetition
of the one at the beginning of the First Book, which indeed starts the whole poem. At present
we may suppose that the poet wishes to recall that first council and its decree to the mind
of the reader, inasmuch as the latter is now to begin the second grand division of the poem,
the Odyssey proper, or Return of Ulysses.

Pallas takes up the complaint and arraigns Providence on an ethical ground: the good king is
forgotten and the good man suffers. To the face of the Supreme Ruler she draws the conclusion:
"Let not any sceptered king henceforth be kind to his people and recognize justice, but always
let him be harsh and work unrighteousness." Then she cites the unhappy lot of Ulysses. But
Zeus throws the charge back upon Pallas, for she already had laid the divine plan that Ulysses
was to take vengeance on wrong-doing suitors, and Telemachus she could save "by her skill,"
if so she chose. Here Pallas again hints as she did in the First Book, the two lines on which
the poem moves (Telemachus and Ulysses), and she also notes the two present obstacles (Calypso
and the sea) in the way of the Return of Ulysses.

The divine activity begins work at once: Zeus sends Hermes to Calypso with the Olympian decree.
Ulysses, however, is to reach home "without any escort of the Gods or of mortal men;" that
is, he must exercise his own free-will tremendously, there is to be no special intervention
of the Gods without the corresponding human effort. Note this passage as indicating the consciousness
of the poet respecting divine help; it is not to take the place of free agency, but to complement
the same. The Hero will have to sail on a raft, "suffering evils;" but he will reach "the land
of the Phæacians, near of kin to the Gods," where he will be "honored as a God," and will be
sent home with abounding wealth, "more than he would ever have received at Troy, returning
unharmed with his share of the booty." Such is the promise of the world-governor to the self-reliant
man; this promise is not fate but foresight on the part of the Supreme God. "Thus is the Hero
destined to see again his friends," namely by means of a small raft or float, which he alone
must control in his own strength, without the help of God or man. Such is the reward of heroic
endeavor, proclaimed by Zeus himself.

2. The messenger Hermes begins his flight down to Calypso, holding his magic wand, with which
he puts men to sleep or wakens them, imparting the power of vision or taking it away. He reaches
the wonderful island with its grot, the account of which has been a master-stroke in literature,
and shows that the description of nature was not alien to the Greek poet, though he rarely
indulges in it. One thinks that the passage contains a suggestion of much modern writing of
the kind.

It is to be noted that this island is mostly a wild product, it has had very little training
from its resident. A natural house and garden we see it to be in the main; the senses, especially
sight and smell, are gratified immediately by physical objects. There is little indication
of Art, possibly a beginning in the singing and weaving; rude nature may have been transformed
somewhat in the four fountains and in the trailing grape-vine. But this description is not
made for its own sake, as are many modern descriptions of nature; the whole is the true environment
for Calypso, and suggests her character.

Her name means the concealer, concealed herself in that lone sea-closed island, and concealing
others. Undeveloped she is, like nature, yet beautiful; sunken still in the life of the senses,
she dwells in her little paradise without any inner scission. But it must be recollected that
Ulysses is not native to the island, he has come or rather fallen hither, from a higher condition.
He, therefore, has the scission in himself, he longs to leave and be restored out of this realm
of mere nature.

With such a longing the Gods must coincide, for they are the Gods of culture, of the rise out
of the physical. The long Journey of Hermes hints the distance between Olympus and Calypso's
isle--a distance which has its spiritual counterpart. The command of the Olympians is borne
to this lower Goddess; Hermes is the voice of the higher ethical divinity to the lower one
of mere nature. But even the higher God has his physical counterpart, is not yet wholly a spirit;
so Hermes eats his ambrosia and drinks his nectar set before him by Calypso in true Greek fashion
and misses the smoke of sacrifices along his barren route.

It is curious to see how Hermes plays with polytheism, hinting ever so slyly the contradiction
in the Greek Pantheon. "Why dost thou a God ask me a God why I come?" It is indeed an absurd
question, for a God ought to know in advance. In numerous places we can trace a subtle Homeric
humor which crops out in dealing with his many deities, indicating a start toward their dissolution.
Then with a strong assertion of the supremacy of one God, Zeus, Hermes utters the unwilling
word: Ulysses must depart from this island.

The answer of Calypso is significant, she charges the Gods with jealousy; "Ye grudge the Goddesses
openly to mate with men," which proposition she nails by several examples. But the Gods reserve
to themselves the privilege of license with mortal women. A complaint still heard, not in the
Olympian but in our Lower World; men are not held to the same code of morals that women are!
But Calypso yields up her lover whom she "thought to make immortal and ageless." What else
can she do? It is true that she saved him once and has preserved him till the present; she
is, however, but a stage which must now be transcended. Appetite may preserve man, still he
is to rise above appetite.

3. Now Ulysses is brought before us. The first fact about him is, his intense longing to return
home; he is found "sitting on the shore, and his eyes were never dry of tears" as he looked
out on the sea toward his country; "for the nymph was no longer pleasing to him," whatever
may have been the case once. Surely the hero is in bonds which he cannot break, though he would;
a penitential strand we may well find in his sorrow; thus he is ready for release.

Calypso, therefore, announces to him the divine plan: he must make a raft and commit himself
to the waters. She has to obey, for is she not really conquered by Ulysses? Certainly the divine
order requires her to send the man away from her island. Yet the return is by no means made
easy, but is to be won by hardest effort; he must grapple with the waves, with angry Neptune
after leaving Calypso. No wonder that Ulysses shuddered at the proposition; truly he has the
choice between the devil and the deep sea, and he manfully chooses the latter. First, however,
the Goddess has to take the great oath "by Earth, by Heaven above and Styx below," the sum
total of the physical universe, from whose presence the perjurer cannot escape, though a God,
that she is not practicing any hidden guile against her much-desired guest. Always the doubter,
the skeptic Ulysses will show himself, even toward a divinity. He must test the Gods also,
as well as man. Very beautiful and humane is the answer of the Goddess: "Such things I plan
and deliberate for thee as I would devise for myself, were I in so great straits. For I too
have a righteous mind, and the heart within my breast is not of iron, but compassionate."

Has a change come over the Goddess through this visit from Olympus? Hardly could she have felt
this before, else she would have sent away Ulysses of her own accord. Her adjustment to the
divine decree seems now to be internal, and not simply a yielding to an external power. Still
the separation costs her deep pangs, and she wonders how Ulysses, a mortal, can give her up,
who is immortal, with all her beauty and the pleasures of her paradise.

The answer of Ulysses reveals the man in his present stale of mind. He recognizes Calypso as
beautiful, deathless, ever young; still he must have something more than sensuous life and
beauty; though it last forever, it can never satisfy. Not to be compared with the Goddess in
grace and stature, is his wife Penelope, still he longs for his home; "yea, though some God
wreck me on the wine-dark deep, I shall endure." But there is no doubt the other side is also
present in Ulysses; he has within himself a strong sensuous nature with which is the battle,
and the poem does not disguise the matter, for he is again ready to enjoy all the pleasures
of Calypso's bower, after this paroxysm of home-sickness.

Such is the deep struggle of the man; such is also the divine obstacle, which has to be removed
by an Olympian interference before he can return. We see that Ulysses in spite of all blandishments
of the Goddess and momentary weakness of himself, was ready for its removal; in his heart he
has overcome Calypso, and wishes to get back to his institutional life in Family and State.
Such a man must return, the Gods must be on his side, else they are not Gods. According to
the Greek conception, Calypso is a subordinate deity who must be put down by the Olympians;
appetite is not a devil, but a lower good, which must be adjusted to the higher. Note, then,
that the external stream, or the world-movement represented by the Gods, now unites with the
internal stream, the spirit of the individual, and brings forth the great event. As stated
often before, these two streams run through all Homeric poetry.

Ulysses now makes his raft; the hero is also a ship-builder, being the self-sufficient man,
equal to any emergency, in whom lie all possibilities. The boat, still quite primitive, is
constructed before our eyes; It is the weapon for conquering Neptune, and prophesies navigation.
Calypso aids him in every way, she even supplies him with tools, the axe, the adze, the augur,
which imply a more advanced state of civilization than has hitherto appeared in the Dark Island.
Whence did she obtain them? No special answer is given; hence we are thrown back upon a general
answer. Calypso is the original wild state of nature; but her transformation has begun, she
helps Ulysses in her new character. These tools are themselves formed from nature into means
for subduing nature; the instrument of bronze in the hands of the wood-cutter is the master
of the tree. At present Calypso is also such an instrument; she, the wild product of nature,
is herself transformed into a means for helping Ulysses conquer the mighty physical element
before him; an implement she has become in the hand of the Gods for restoring the heroic endurer,
and hence she can emblematically hand him these material implements, for they are one with
her present spirit. Indeed we may carry the analogy one step further, turning it inwardly:
Calypso, though once the inciter to sensuous desire, now helps the man put it away and flee
from it; ethically she is converted into an instrument against her former self. In like manner
nature is turned against nature by the thinking artificer.

Also food and drink and raiment the Island Goddess furnishes for the voyage; with rare skill
she tells him how to direct his course by the stars; she is mistress over the winds, it seems,
for she sends the right one to blow. Wonderful indeed is the change; all those forces of nature,
formerly so hostile, have been transformed into helpers, Calypso herself being also transformed.
Thus we catch the outlines of the Fairy Tale or marvelous story, which tells, in a supernatural
way, of man's mastery of the physical world, once so destructive, now so obedient.

Cloth for his sails she brought him, but we must recollect that she was a weaver at the start
of the story. At last Ulysses pushes his raft down into the fair salt sea; Ogygia, the place
of nature's luxuriance and delight, is left behind; he must quit the natural state, however
paradisaical, and pass to the social order, to Ithaca, though the latter be poor and rocky.
Still we may well recall the fact that the island and Calypso once saved Ulysses, when wrecked
elsewhere, on account of the slaughter done to the Oxen of the Sun; this wild spot furnished
him natural shelter, food, gratification; nay, it gave him love.

To be sure, the other side is not to be forgotten: it had to be transcended, when it kept him
away from the higher institutional life. Ulysses, the wonderful, limit-transcending spirit,
unfolds within even while caught in this wild jungle; he evolves out of it, as man has evolved
out of it, thus he hints the movement of his race, which has to quit a cave-life and a mere
sensuous existence. Such is the decree of the Gods, for all time: the man must abandon Calypso,
who is herself to be transformed into an instrument of his progress.

We may now begin to see what Calypso means, in outline at least. The difficulty of comprehending
her lies in her twofold character: at one time she is nature, then she is the helper against
nature. But just therein is her movement, her development. She is Goddess of this Island, where
she rules; but she is a lesser deity who has to be subordinated to the Olympians, as nature
must be put under spirit. The Greek deified nature, not being able to diabolize it; still he
knew that it must be ruled and transmuted by mind. Thus Calypso is a Goddess, inferior, confined
to one locality, but having sensuous beauty as nature has. She, without ethical content, as
purely physical, stands in the way of institutions, notably the Family; she seduces the man,
and holds him by his senses, by his passion, till he rise out of her sway. On this side her
significance is plain: she is the female principle which stands between Ulysses and his wedded
wife, she not being wedded. Thus she is an embodiment of nature, from the external landscape
in which she is set, to internal impulse, to the element of sex. So it comes that she is represented
as a beautiful woman, but beauty without its ethical content can no longer chain Ulysses. That
charm is broken, in spite of passing relapses.

Then comes the other side of Calypso's character, as already indicated: she changes, she turns
and helps Ulysses put down herself and get away from her world, furnishing him quite all the
means for his voyage. Not without a certain regret and parting display of her charms does she
do this; still the change is real, and at the last stage we must imagine a Calypso transformed
or partially so.

The enchantress on her magic island is a favorite theme with the Fairy Tale, and the situation
in itself rouses curiosity and wonder. The bit of land floating on the sea in appearance, yet
withstanding wave and tempest, is, to the sailor, the home of supernatural beings. The story
of Calypso has the tinge of nautical fancy. In like manner the story of Robinson Crusoe is
that of a sea-faring people. We see in it the ship-wrecked man, the lone island, the struggle
with nature for food and shelter. But Defoe has no supernatural realm playing into his narrative--no
beautiful nymph, no Olympian Gods. That twofold Homeric conception of an Upper and Lower World,
of a human and divine element in the great experience, is lost; the Englishman is practical,
realistic, utilitarian even in his pious observations, which he flings into his text from the
outside at given intervals.

Ogygia, the abode of Calypso, means the Dark Island, upon which Ulysses is cast after the destruction
of the Oxen of the Sun. Calypso, in harmony with the name of her abode, signifies the concealer--and
that is what has happened to Ulysses, his light is hidden. She is the daughter of Atlas, who
has two mental traits assigned to him; he is evil-minded and he knows all the depths of the
sea. A demonic being endowed with his dark knowledge of things out of sight; he has a third
trait also, "he upholds of himself the long pillars which keep Heaven and Earth apart" (Book
I. 53). Naturally under such a burden he is not in good humor. Calypso is the daughter who,
along with her grot, may be conceived to have risen out of the obscure depths of the sea, with
something of her father's disposition. Doubtless Greek sailors could behold in her image the
dangerous rocks which lurked unseen beneath the waters around her island. The comparative mythologist
finds in her tale the clouds obscuring or concealing the Sun (here Ulysses) till the luminary
breaks out of his concealment and shines in native glory. Something of truth lies in these
various views, but the fundamental meaning is not physical, but ethical.

II.

We now come to the great physical obstacle standing in the way of the Return of Ulysses, the
sea, which, however, has always its divine side to the Greek mind. A series of water-deities
will rise before us out of this mighty element, assuming various attitudes toward the solitary
voyager. Three of them, showing themselves as hostile (Neptune), as helpful (Ino Leucothea),
as saving (the River-God); all three too seem in a kind of gradation, from the vast total sea,
through one of its phases, to the small stream pouring into the sea from the land. Thus the
Greek imagination, playing with water, deified the various appearances thereof, specially in
their relation to man. The introduction of these three marine divinities naturally organizes
this second part of the Fifth Book into three phases or stages. Such is the divine side now
to be witnessed.

Parallel to this runs the human side, represented by the lone hero Ulysses, who is passing
through a fearful ordeal of danger with its attendant emotions of anxiety, terror, hope, despair.
A very hard test is surely here applied to weak mortal flesh. We shall observe that he passes
through a series of mental perturbations at each divine appearance; he runs up and down a scale
of doubt, complaint, resolution. His weakness he will show, yet also his strength; dubitation
yet faith; he will hesitate, yet finally act. Thus he saves himself at last through his own
will, yet certainly with the help of the Gods; for both sides have to co-operate to bring about
the heroic act of his deliverance.

Pallas also comes to the aid of her favorite, but in an indirect manner. The sea does not seem
to be her element. She stops the winds and "informs his mind with forecast," but she does not
personally appear and speak, nor is she addressed, as is the case with the water-gods. She
plays in by the way in this marine emergency; her appearances now do not organize the action.
But the three appearances of the water-gods are the organic principle, their element being
at present the scene of the adventure. On these lines we shall note the course of the poem
in some detail.

1. Neptune returning from the Ethiopians to Hellas, sees the lone sailor with his little craft
from the heights of the mountain called Solyma; at once the God's wrath is roused and he talks
to himself, "shaking his head." The clouds, the winds, the ocean obeyed his behest, and fell
upon the voyager in a furious tempest. A huge billow whirled the raft around and threw Ulysses
off into the deep; with difficulty be regained his place, and escaped death.

A vivid picture of the grand obstacle to early navigation, of which Neptune is the embodiment.
Why should he not be angry at the man who seeks to tame him? The raft means his ultimate subjection.
Nature resists the hand which subdues her at first, and then gracefully yields. To be sure
there had to be a mythical ground for Neptune's anger at Ulysses: the latter had put out the
eye of his son, the Cyclops Polyphemus, which was another phase of the subjection of wild nature
to intelligence. For seventeen days Ulysses had easy sailing, guided by the stars; but the
sea has its destructive side which must also be experienced by the much-enduring man.

Corresponding to this outer tempest, we observe an inner tempest in the soul of Ulysses. "O
me wretched! what is now to happen to me!" Terror unmans him for the time being; regret weakens
him: "Thrice happy, four times happy the Greeks who fell on Troy's broad plain!" Thus he goes
back in memory to his heroic epoch and wishes for death then. Too late it is, for while he
is lamenting, a wave strikes him and tosses him out into the deep; now he has to act, and this
need of action saves him from his internal trituration, as well as from external death.

With this renewed energy of the will, a new help appears, a divine aid from the sea. For without
his own strong effort, no God can rescue him, however powerful. That toss out into the waves
was not without its blessing.

2. Ino Leucothea, Ino the white Goddess, beholds him with pity in his extremity--she was once
mortal herself but now is divine. Her function seems to be to help the shipwrecked mariner;
her name reminds the reader of the white calm of the sea, elsewhere celebrated by Homer (Book
X, 94; Nitzsch's observation). Thus she appears to represent the peaceful placid mood of the
marine element, which rises in the midst of the storm and imparts hope and courage, nay predicts
safety. She gives her veil to Ulysses, in which commentators trace a suggestion of the fillet
or sacred cloth which was given out from a temple in Samothrace, and had the power of saving
the endangered mariner, if he had tied it round his body. As it is here employed, it strangely
suggests a life-preserver. At any rate Ino is the calming power opposed to angry Neptune, and
she works upon both the waters and the man.

"Ill-fated man," she cries, "why hast thou so angered Neptune?" Then she changes her note:
"Still he shall not destroy thee, however much he desires." She bids him give up his raft to
the anger of Neptune, throw away his clinging wet garments of Calypso, and swim to the land
of the Phæacians. Then she hands him the veil which he is to "bind beneath his breast," and,
when he has reached land, he is to throw it back into the sea. A ritual of some kind, symbolic
acts we feel these to be, though their exact meaning may be doubtful. Ino, "the daughter of
Cadmus," is supposed to have been a Phoenician Goddess originally, and to have been transferred
to the Greek sailor, just as his navigation came to him, partly at least, from the Phoenicians.
If he girded himself with the consecrated veil of Leucothea, the Goddess of the calm, Neptune
himself in wrath could not sink him.

Such was the faith required of Ulysses, but now comes the internal counterstroke: his skepticism.
"Ah me! what if some God is planning another fraud against me, bidding me quit my raft!" The
doubter refuses to obey and clings to his raft. But the waves make short work of it now, and
Ulysses by sheer necessity has to do as the Goddess bade him; "with hands outspread he plunged
into the sea," the veil being underneath him. When he quits his raft, and is seen in the water,
Neptune dismisses him from view with a parting execration, and Pallas begins to help him, not
openly, but indirectly.

In such manner the great doubter is getting toward shore, but even here his doubts cease not.
Steep jutting cliffs may not permit him to land, the billows may dash him to death on the sharp
shoaly rocks, or carry him out again to sea, or some huge monster of the deep may snap him
up in its jaws; thus he is dashed about internally, on the billows of doubt. But this grinding
within is stopped by the grinding he gets without; a mighty surge overwhelms him, he clutches
a rock and saves himself, but leaves flakes of flesh from his hands behind on the rock. "He
swam along the coast and eyed it well," he even reaches the mouth of a soft-flowing river,
where was a smooth beach and a shelter from the wind. Here is the spot so long desired, here
then he passes to an act of faith, he prays to the river which becomes at once to the Greek
imagination a God.

3. This brings us to the third water deity, and we observe a kind of scale from the universal
one, Neptune, down to a local one, that of the river. The middle one, Ino, is the humane kindly
phase of the great deep, showing her kinship with man; Neptune was the ruder god of the physical
sea, and, to the Homeric Greek, the most powerful and natural. No wonder that he was angry
at that little raft and its builder; it meant his ultimate subjection.

The prayer of Ulysses to the River-God is, on the whole, the finest passage in the present
Book. It shows him now a man of faith, humbled though he be to the last degree of misery: "Hear
me, ruler, whoever thou art, I approach thee much-besought. The deathless Gods revere the prayer
of him who comes to them and asks for mercy, as I now come to thy stream. Pity, ruler, me thy
suppliant." Certainly a lofty recognition of the true nature of deity; no wonder that the River
stayed his current, smoothed the waves and made a calm before him. Such a view of the Gods
reveals to us the inner depths of the Hero's character; it calls to mind that speech of Phoenix
in the Iliad (Book Ninth) where he says that the Gods are placable. As soon as Ulysses makes
this utterance from his heart, he is saved, the Divine Order is adjusted to his prayer, he
having of course put himself into harmony with the same. He has no longer any need of the protecting
veil of the sea-goddess Ino, having escaped from the angry element, and obtained the help of
the new deity belonging to the place. He restores the veil to the Goddess according to her
request, in which symbolic act we may possibly read a consecration of the object which had
saved him, as well as a recognition of the deity: "This veil of salvation belongs not to me,
but to the Goddess." Not of his strength alone was he saved from the waves.

Such is one side of Ulysses, that of faith, of the manifestation of the godlike in man, especially
when he is in the very pinch of destruction. But Ulysses would not be Ulysses, unless he showed
the other side too, that of unfaith, weak complaint, and temporary irresolution. So, when he
is safe on the bank of the stream, he begins to cry out: "What now am I to suffer more! If
I try to sleep on this river's brink for the night, the frost and dew and wind will kill me;
and if I climb this hill to yonder thicket, I fear a savage beast will eat me while I slumber."
It is well to be careful, O Ulysses, in these wild solitudes; now let the petulant outburst
just given, be preparatory to an act of will which will settle the problem. "He rose and went
to the wood near by; he crept under two bushes that grew from the same place, one the wild
and the other the tame olive." There in a heap of leaves--man's first bed--he slept under the
intertwined branches of the two olives--nature's shelter against wind, rain, sun. He, with
all his cultivation is quite reduced to the condition of the primitive man.

One cannot help feeling a symbolic intention in these two olive trees, one wild and one cultivated.
They represent in a degree the two phases of the man sleeping under them; they hint also the
transition which he is making from the untamed nature of Calypso's island to the more civilized
land of Phæacia. The whole Book is indeed the movement to a new life and a new country. We
might carry out the symbolic hint much further on these lines, and see a meaning in their interwoven
branches and the protection they are giving at present; but the poetic suggestion flashing
afar over poem backwards and forwards is the true effect, and may be dimmed by too much explanation.

Such is this marvelous storm with its ship-wreck, probably the first in literature, but often
made use of since. The outer surges of the tempest are indeed terrific; but the main interest
is, that along with this external description of the storm, we witness the corresponding internal
heaving and tossing of a human soul. Everywhere we notice that Ulysses doubts at first, doubts
Calypso, doubts Ino, doubts even his final safety when on land. He is the skeptical man, he
never fails to call up the possibilities on the other side. Though a God give the promise,
he knows that there are other Gods who do not promise, or may give a different promise to somebody
else. It is the experience of life, this touch of doubt at first; it always accompanies the
thinking man, who, like Ulysses, must be aware of a negative counterpart even to truth. Not
pleasant, but painful is this doubt shooting through the soul, and keeping it in distress and
often in lamentation. So even the Hero breaks out into unmanly complaint, and reveals to the
full his finite nature.

Yet if Ulysses doubts, he always overcomes his doubt in the end; he sees the positive element
in the world to be deeper than the negative one, after a little access of weakness. Under his
doubt is the deeper layer of faith, so he never gives up, but valiantly holds on and conquers.
The Gods come to his aid when he believes and acts. His intellect is doubt, his will is faith:
wherein we may trace important lines which unite him with Faust, the chief character in our
last world-poem. Ulysses will complain, and having freed his mind, will go to work and conquer
the obstacle. He struggles with the billow, clinging to the mast, though he had just said:
"Now I shall die a miserable death."

Parallel to this human side runs the divine side, which we need not further describe here,
with its three water-deities. A little attention we may give to the part of Pallas. At one
time she seems to control the outer world for her favorite, sending the wind or stopping it;
then she is said to inform his mind with forecast, that he may do the thing in spite of wind
or other obstacle; finally he often does the deed without any divine suggestion, acting through
himself. In these stages we can see a transition of the Mythus. The first stage is truly mythical,
in which the deity is the mover, the second is less so, the Goddess having become almost wholly
internal; in the third stage the mythical is lost. All these stages are in Homer and in this
Book, though the first is still paramount.

Taking into view the general character of the mythical movement of this Fifth Book, we observe
that there is a rise in it from a lower to a higher form; Calypso and Neptune are intimately
blended with their physical environments, the island and the sea. Though elevated into persons,
they are still sunk in Nature; it is the function of the Hero, especially the wise man, to
subordinate both or to transcend both: which is just what Ulysses has done. His Mythus is,
therefore, a higher one, telling the story of the subjection of nature and of her Gods. This
story marks one phase of his career.

The reader will probably be impressed with the fact that in the present Book the stress is
upon the discipline of the will. The inner reactions of complaint, doubt, or despair turn against
the deed, to which Ulysses has to nerve himself by a supreme act of volition. The world of
Calypso is that of self-indulgence, inactivity, will-lessness, to which Ulysses has sunk after
his sin against the source of light, after his negation of all intelligence. It is not simply
sensuous gratification with the mind still whole and capable of resolution, as was the case
with Ulysses in the realm of Circe, in which he shows his will-power, though coupled with indulgence.
Such is the difference between Calypso and Circe, which is always a problem with the reader.
In this way, too, we see how the Fifth Book before us is a direct continuation and unfolding
out of the Twelfth Book. Indeed the very movement of the poem is significant, which is a going
backwards; so Ulysses drops far to the rear out of that light-loving Island of the Sun, against
which is his violation, when he comes to Ogygia.

But Ulysses has now, after long discipline, transcended this sphere, and has reached a new
land, of which the account is to follow next.

BOOK SIXTH.

We are now to make one of the chief transitions of the poem, we are going to pass from the
Dark Island and the stormy sea to Phæacia, a bright, sunlit land, where reign peace and harmony.
Moreover, we move out of the realm of nature to that of institutions. Still more significant
are the central figures of the two localities, both women; one of these we have seen, Calypso,
who is now to give way to Nausicaa.

This Book may, therefore, be called Nausicaa's Book, as she is the leading character in it,
imparting to it a marvelous mood of idyllic beauty and womanly purity. She is the person chosen
by the poet to introduce the Hero into the new realm, Phæacia, being in sharp contrast to Calypso,
who detained Ulysses in dark Ogygia away from his family, and whose character was adverse to
the domestic relation. But Nausicaa shows from the start the primal instinct of the true woman
for the home. She is still young, but she has arrived at that age in which she longs with every
throb of her heart to surrender her own separate existence, and to unite it with another. She
manifests in all its attractiveness the primordial love of the woman for the Family, basis
of all institutional life, as well as fountain of the deepest joys of our terrestrial sojourn.

On this account she represents the place of Phæacia in the Greek world as well as in the present
poem; perhaps we ought to add, in the whole movement of civilization. That land may be called
the idyllic one, a land of peace and of freedom from all struggle; the borderland between the
natural and the civilized spheres. Man has risen out of the grossness of mere sensuous individualism,
such as we see in Polyphemus and in other shapes of Fairyland; but he has not yet reached the
conflicts of higher forms of society resulting from a pursuit of wealth, from ambition, from
war. Here is a quiet half-way house on the road from nature to civilization; a sweet reposeful
realm, almost without any development of the negative forces of society; a temporary stopping-place
for Ulysses in his all-embracing career, also for individuals and nations in their rush forward
to reach the great end. The deep collisions of social life belong not to Phæacia, nor to Nausicaa,
its ideal image.

It is the virgin land, the virgin world, which now has a young virgin as its central character
and representative, to mediate Ulysses with itself, the universal man who must also have the
new experience. Still she is not all of Phæacia, but its prelude, its introductory form; moreover,
she is just the person to conduct Ulysses out of his present forlorn condition of mind and
body into a young fresh hope, into a new world. The Calypso life is to be obliterated by the
vision of the true woman and her instinctive devotion to the Family. We are aware that Ulysses
has not been contented with the Dark Island and its nymph, he has had the longing to get away
and has at last gotten away; but to what has he come? Lost the one and not attained the other,
till he beholds Nausicaa, who grasps him by the hand, as it were, and delivers him wholly from
Calypso, leading him forth to her home, where he is to witness the central phase of domestic
life, the mother.

The organism of the Book easily falls into two parts, one of which portrays Nausicaa at home,
the other gives the meeting between her and Ulysses. Yet over this human movement hovers always
the divine, Pallas is the active supernal power which brings these events to pass, introducing
both the parts mentioned. She is the providence which the poet never permits to drop out. Most
deeply does the old singer's sincerity herein move the reader, who must rise to the same elevation;
Homer's loyalty is to faith, faith in the Divine Order of the World, for this is not suffered
to go its way without a master spirit; the individual, especially in his pivotal action, is
never left alone, but he fits in somewhere; the Whole takes him up and directs him, and adjusts
him into the providential plan; not simply from without but through himself. Such is this poet's
loyalty to his Idea; he has faith, deep, genuine faith, yet unostentatious, quite unconventional
at times; a most refreshing, yes, edifying appearance to-day, even for religious people, though
he be "an old heathen."

Such continual recurrence of the God's interference with the course of events--what does it
mean? This is unquestionably the fundamental problem with the earnest student of Homer. Let
us observe, then, first, that the poet's principle is not to allow a divine intervention to
degenerate into a merely external mechanical act; himself full of the spirit of the God, he
puts the divine influence inside the individual as well as outside, and thus preserves the
latter's freedom in the providential order. The faithful reader will never let these movements
of the deity drop into mere machinery; when he does, he has lost the essence of Homer. Doubtless
it requires an alert activity of mind to hold the Gods always before the vision in their truth;
they must be re-thought, or indeed re-created every time they appear. The somnolescent reader
is only too ready to spare himself the poetic exaltation in which the old bard must be read,
if we would really see the divinities, and grasp the spirit of their dealings with man. Speak
not, then, of epical machinery in Homer, the word is misleading to the last degree, is indeed
libellous, belieing the poet in the very soul of his art.

In the present Book there is not by any means as much divine intervention as in the preceding
one; we pass from the lower realm of the water-gods to that of Pallas, the goddess of intelligence,
who is the sole active divinity in this Book. She appears to Nausicaa at the beginning in the
form of a dream, and bids the maiden look after some washing. Our first question is, why call
in a goddess for such a purpose? The procedure seems trivial and unnecessary, and so it would
be under ordinary circumstances. But through this humble and common-place duty Nausicaa is
made a link in the grand chain of the Return of Ulysses, which is the divine plan underlying
the whole poem, and is specially the work of Pallas. To be sure this had no place in Nausicaa's
intention, but it does have a place in the providential scheme, which has, therefore, to be
voiced by the Goddess. Yet that scheme does not conflict with the free-will of the maiden,
which finds its fullest scope just in this household duty, and brings out her character. She
reveals to Ulysses her nature, this is the occasion; she had to be free to represent what she
truly was to the much-experienced man. An ordinary wash-day has little divinity in it, but
this one is filled with the divine plan. Thus small events, otherwise immediately forgotten,
may by a mighty co-incidence he elevated into the sphere of the World's History, and become
ever memorable. That French soldier who threw a camp-kettle over the head of Mirabeau's ancestor
and thus saved him from being trampled to death by a passing troop of cavalry, made himself
a factor in the French Revolution, and was inspired by whom, demon or angel?

As already hinted, the structure of the Book is determined by the two interventions of Pallas,
which divide it into two portions; these are shown in the following outline:--

I.  (1.) Pallas appears to Nausicaa in a dream, and gives the
         suggestion.

    (2.) Nausicaa, when she awakes, obeys the suggestion and
         proceeds to the place of the washing.

II. (1.) Ulysses also asleep, lies in his cover not far from the
         same spot, when Pallas starts the plan for his waking.

    (2.) Meeting of Ulysses and Nausicaa, and the going to the city.

In both parts we observe the same general method; the divine influence, beginning above, moves
below and weaves the mortal into its scheme through his own action.

I.

First is a short introduction giving a bit of the history of the Phæacians, in which we catch
a glimpse of their development. They once dwelt near the Cyclops, the wild men of nature, from
whom they moved away on account of injuries received; they could live no longer in such a neighborhood.
Here we note an important separation, probably a change of life which leaves the ruder stage
behind. The colony is led forth to a new land by its hero, who lays the foundation of a social
order by building houses, temples to the Gods, and a wall round the city, and who divides the
territory. Thus a civil polity begins by getting away from "the insolent Cyclops" or savages.
On the other hand, civilized enemies who might bring war, seem not to dwell near the Phæacians,
beloved of the Gods. Beyond all conflict, inner and outer, lies the fortunate realm; it touches
the happy mean between barbarism and civilization, though perchance on the road from former
to latter; at present, however, it is without the evils which go before it and come after it.
As already stated, it is an idyllic world, life appears to be one continued festival, with
song and dance of youth. It is not real Greece, not Ithaca, which just now is a land of discord
and conflict. What the poet says of Olympus in a famous passage a little further on in this
book, seems applicable, in spirit at least, to Phæacia:

    The storm-wind shakes it not, nor is it wet
    By showers, and there the snow doth never fall;
    The calm clear ether is without a cloud,
    And over all is spread a soft white sheen.

1. Now comes the appearance of Pallas, who "like a breath of wind" approaches the couch of
the maiden in slumber, and admonishes her about the washing. Some such care the Goddess does
impose upon the housekeeper to this day, and if report be true, at times troubles her dreams.
It is indeed an important duty, this necessity of keeping the household and its members clean,
specially the men, too often indifferent. Young Nausicaa, just entering upon womanhood, is
ready for the divine suggestion; plainly she has come to that age at which the Goddess must
speak to her on such matters. So much for Pallas at present.

2. Therewith we touch another fact; the maiden has reached the time when she must think, of
marriage, which she instinctively regards as her true destiny in life. Still it does not appear
that she is betrothed though "the noblest Phæacians are wooing thee." In simple innocence there
hovers in her mind the thought of Family, yet she shows a shy reserve even before her father.
With that sweet thought is joined the primary household care, which naturally enough comes
to her in a dream. Cleanliness is next to godliness is our modern saying; it is certainly the
outward visible token of purity, which Nausicaa is going to bring into her domestic surroundings.
We may reasonably think that in the present scene the external deed and the internal character
mirror each other.

It must be confessed, however, that to the modern woman wash-day, "blue Monday," is usually
a day bringing an unpleasant mood, if not positive terror. She will often declare that she
cannot enjoy this Phæacian idyl on account of its associations; she refuses to accept in image
what in real life is so disagreeable. As a symbol of purification the thing may pass, but no
human being wishes to be purified too often. Nausicaa's occupation is not popular with her
sex, and she herself has not altogether escaped from a tinge of disrelish.

It is curious to note how customs endure. What Homer saw, the traveler in Greece will see to-day
wherever a stream runs near a village. The Nausicaas of the place, daughters and mothers too,
will be found at the water's side, going through this same Phæacian process, themselves in
white garments even at their labor, pounding, rubbing, rinsing the white garments of their
husbands, brothers, sons. Not without sympathy will the by-stander look on, thinking that those
efforts are to make clean themselves and their household, life being in truth a continual cleansing
for every human soul. So Hellas has still the appearance of an eternal wash-day. (See author's
Walk in Hellas, passim.)

Nausicaa obtains without difficulty wagon and mules and help of servants. After all, the affair
is something of a frolic or outing; when the task is done, there is the bath, the song, and
a game of ball. It is worthy of notice that the word (amaxa) here used by old Homer for wagon,
may still be heard throughout Greece for the same or a similar thing. In the harbor of Piræus
the hackman will ask the traveler: "Do you want my amaxa?" The dance (choros), is still the
chief amusement of the Greek villagers, and, as in Nausicaa's time, the young man wishes to
enter the dance with new-washed garments, white as snow, whose folds ripple around his body
in harmony with his graceful movements. Many an echo of Phæacia, in language, custom and costume,
can be found in Greece at present, indicating, like the Cyclopean masonry, the solid and permanent
substructure of Homer's poetry, still in place after more than 2500 years of wear and tear.

II.

The washing is done now, the sport is over, and the party is getting ready to go home; but
the main object is not yet accomplished. Ulysses and Nausicaa are here to be brought together--the
much-experienced man and the innocent maiden with her pure ethical instinct of Family. In many
ways the two stand far asunder, yet in one thing they are alike: each is seeking the domestic
relation, each will consummate the bond of love which has two phases, the one being after marriage
and the other before marriage. Both are moving in their deepest nature toward the unity of
the Family, though on different lines; Ulysses and Nausicaa have a common trait of character,
which will be sympathetically found by each and will bring them together.

I. At this fresh turn of affairs there is an intervention of Pallas, not prolonged, but sufficient:
"Thereupon Athena (Pallas) planned other things, that Ulysses should wake, and see the fair-faced
maiden who would conduct him to the city of the Phæacians." The Goddess does not appear in
person, as the deities so often do in the Iliad, nor does she take a mortal shape, or move
Ulysses through a dream; she simply brings about an incident, natural enough, to wake the sleeping
hero. Why then introduce the Goddess at all? Because the poet wishes to emphasize the fact
that this simple incident is a link in the providential chain; otherwise it would have no mention.
The ball is thrown at one of the servants, it falls into the stream, whereat there is an outcry--and
Ulysses wakes.

Of course, the latter had at first his usual fit of doubt and complaint, just when the Gods
are helping him: "Ah me! to what land have I come! What men are here--wild, insolent, unjust,
or are they hospitable, reverencing the Gods? I shall go forth and test the matter"--and so
by an act of will he rescues himself from inner brooding and finds out the truth.

2. Now we are to witness the gradual outer approach between Ulysses and Nausicaa, till it becomes
internal, and ends in a strong feeling of friendship if not in a warmer emotion. The wanderer,
almost naked, with only "a branch of thick leaves bound about his loins," comes forth from
his hiding place, a frightful object to anybody, a wild man apparently.

All the servants run, but Nausicaa stands her ground before the nude monster; being a Princess
she shows her noble blood, and, being innocent herself, what can she he afraid of? Thus does
the poet distinguish her spiritually among her attendants, as a few lines before in the famous
comparison with Diana he distinguished her physically: "Over all the rest are seen her head
and brow, easily is she known among them, though all are fair: such was the spotless virgin
mid her maids." Thus is hinted the outer and also the inner superiority which has now revealed
itself in the Phæacian Princess.

Henceforth a subtle interplay takes place between her and Ulysses, in which we observe three
main stages: First, the wild man in appearance he steps forth, yet he succeeds in touching
her sympathy, wherein her charity is shown; Second, the transformed man, now a God in appearance
he becomes, at whose view the maiden begins to show deep admiration, if not love; Third, the
passing of Ulysses to the city to which he is conducted by the maiden, who also tells him how
to reach the heart of the family, namely, the mother Arete. Thus she seeks to mediate him with
her country and her hearth.

(1) Ulysses, issuing from his lair, addresses her in a speech which shows superb skill on account
of its gradual penetration to the soul of the fair hearer. He praises first her external beauty
with many a happy touch, yet with an excess which seems to border on adulation. This reaches
her outer ear and bespeaks his good-will and gentleness at least. Then he strikes a deeper
chord: he mentions his sufferings, those which are past, and forebodes those which are yet
to be, perchance upon this shore. "Therefore, O Princess, have compassion, since I have come
to thee first; none besides thee do I know in this land. Give me some old rag to throw around
me, some useless wrappage which you may have brought hither." Pathetic indeed is the appeal;
therewith comes sympathy, the man is no wild Cyclops, whom all Phæacians still remembered with
terror, but a victim of misfortune.

Now comes the culmination of his speech, which shows his keen insight into human nature, as
well as his own deepest longing: "May the Gods grant thy heart's desire---husband, home, and
wedded harmony." With this praise of domestic life upon his lips he has touched the profoundest
chord of her heart; he has divined her secretest yet strongest instinct, and has appealed to
it in deep emotion. Yet mark! in the same general direction lies his own dearest hope: he also
will return home, to wife and family. Thus he has found the common meeting-place of their souls;
the two strike the absolutely concordant note and are one in feeling--he the husband, she the
maiden.

In her answer she expresses her strong sympathy, her words indeed rise into the realm of charity.
It is no mark of baseness to be unfortunate; "but these must endure," what Zeus lays upon them.
Such is the exhortation of the young maiden to the much-enduring man; she has divined too the
ground-work of his character. "But now, since thou hast come to our land, thou shalt not want
for garment or anything else proper for the needy suppliant." Then she recalls her attendants,
reproving them for their flight, and orders them to give to Ulysses food and drink, oil to
be used after bathing, and ample raiment. Nor should we pass by that other expression of hers:
"all strangers and the poor are Jove's own," under the special protection of the Supreme God,
who will avenge their disregard. Such is this ideal world of Phæacia, still ideal to-day; for
where is it realized? The old poet has cast the imago of a society which we are still trying
to embody. Well can she say that the Phæacians dwell far apart from the rest of the nations,
"nor does any mortal hold intercourse with us." Thus, too, she marks unconsciously the limit
of her people.

(2) The reader, along with Nausicaa, is to see the transformation of the beggarly wanderer,
who, having taken his bath and put on his raiment, comes forth like a God. This is said to
be the work of Pallas, "who caused him to appear taller and more powerful, with flowing locks,
like the hyacinth." He becomes plastic in form, beautiful as a statue, into which the divine
soul has been transfused by the artist. Such a transforming power lies within him, yet is granted
also by a deity; the godlike in the man now takes on a bodily, or rather a sculpturesque appearance,
and prophesies Greek plastic art.

The echo of this change is heard in the words of the maiden: "Hear me attendants; not without
the will of the Olympians does this man come to us; lately I thought him unseemly, now he is
like the Gods who hold the broad Heavens." Such is her lively admiration now, but what means
this? "Would that such a man might be called my husband, dwelling here in Phæacia!" That note
is indeed deeper than admiration.

(3) The third phase of this little play is the bringing of Ulysses to the city and home of
Nausicaa. He, having satisfied his hunger, and being ready to start, receives some advice from
the maiden, who seeks to conduct him at once to the center of the home. They will pass first
through the outlying country, which shows cultivation; then they will go up into the city,
with its lofty tower and double harbor; the seafaring character of the people is especially
set forth by Nausicaa, whose name is derived from the Greek word for a ship. Particularly we
must notice her fear of gossip, which also existed in Phæacia, ideal though the land was. She
must not be seen with Ulysses; men with evil tongues would say: "What stranger is this following
Nausicaa? Now she will have a husband." The sharp eye of Goethe detected in this passage the
true motive; it is love, always having the tendency to deny itself, which dictates so carefully
this avoidance of public report; the thing must not be said just because there is good reason
for saying it. Her solicitude betrays her feeling. In pure simplicity of heart she pays the
supreme compliment to Ulysses, likening him indirectly to "a God called down from Heaven by
her prayers, to live with her all her days." Still further she intimates in the same passage,
that "many noble suitors woo her, but she treats them with disdain, they are Phæacians." To
be sure she puts these words into the mouth of a gossipy and somewhat disgruntled countryman,
but they come round to their mark like a boomerang. Does she not thus announce to the much-enduring
man that she is free, though under a good deal of pressure? All this is done in such an artless
way, that it becomes the highest art--something which she does not intend but cannot help.
Surely such a speech from such a source ought to repay him for suffering shipwreck and for
ten years' wandering.

We cannot, therefore, think of calling this passage spurious, with some critics both ancient
and modern. The complaint against it is that the young Phæacian lady shows here too much reflection,
in conjunction with a tendency to sarcasm foreign to her life. But we find it eminently unreflective
and naive; the very point of the passage is that she unconsciously reveals the deepest hidden
thought and purpose of her heart to Ulysses. With all her being she must move toward the Family,
she would not be herself unless she did; yet how completely she preserves modesty and simple-heartedness!
Nor is the sarcastic tinge foreign to young girls. So we shall have to set aside the objections
of Aristarchus the old Greek, and Faesi the modern German, commentator.

But the final instruction of Nausicaa is the most interesting; the suppliant is not to go to
the father but to the mother. Nay, he is to "pass by my father's throne and clasp my mother's
knees," in token of supplication; then he may see the day of return. Herein we may behold in
general, the honored place of the mother as the center of the Family, its heart, as it were,
full of the tender feelings of compassion and mercy. In the father and king, on the other hand,
is the man of the State with its inflexible justice, often putting aside sympathy and commiseration
with misfortune. The woman's heart may indeed be called the heart of the world, recognized
here by the old poet and his Phæacians.

This mother, however, is in herself a great character; she is next to have a Book of her own,
which will more fully set forth her position.

The character of Nausicaa, as here unfolded in the ancient poet, has captivated many generations
of readers since Homer began to be read. The story has lived and renewed itself in manifold
forms; it has that highest power of a genuine mythus, it produces itself through all ages,
taking on a fresh vesture in Time. In old Hellas the tale of Nausicaa was wrought over into
various shapes after Homer; it was transformed into a drama, love-story, as well as idyl. The
myth-making spirit did not let it drop, but kept unfolding it; later legend, for instance,
brought about a marriage between Telemachus and Nausicaa. Our recent greatest poet, Goethe,
also responded mightily to the story of Nausicaa; he planned a drama on the subject, of which
the outline is to be found in his published works. He did not find time to finish his poem,
but there is evidence that he thought much about it and carried it around with him, for a long
period. One regrets that the German poet was not able to give this new transformation of his
ancient Greek brother, with whom he has manifested on so many lines an intimate connection
and poetical kinship. In portions of the Italian Journey specially we see how deeply the Odyssey
was moving him and how he was almost on the point of reproducing the whole poem with its marine
scenery. But Nausicaa in particular fascinated him, and it would have been the best commentary
on the present Book to have seen her in a now grand poetic epiphany in the modern drama of Goethe.

BOOK SEVENTH.

If the last Book was Nausicaa's, this one is Arete's; there is the transition from the daughter
to the mother, from the maiden to the wife. Still it is not quite so emphatically a woman's
Book, since the wife has to include the husband in her world. Ulysses now goes to the center
of the Family, to its heart, that he may meet with compassion. Still she withholds her sympathy
at first for a good reason; Arete is not wholly impulse and feeling, she has thought, reflection.
So, after all, it is left to the men to take up the suppliant.

Very surprising to us moderns is the picture drawn by the old Greek poet of this woman, and
of her position: "the people look upon her as a God when she goes through the city;" her mind
is especially praised; she has a judicial character, supposed usually to be alien to women:
"she decides controversies among men," or perchance harmonizes them. To be sure her position
is stated as exceptional: "her husband honors her, as no other woman on earth is honored;"
she is evidently his counselor as well as wife. Thus the poet would have us regard Arete not
merely as a person of kind feelings and of sweet womanly instincts, but she has also the highest
order of intelligence; she is united with her husband in head as well as in heart, perchance
overtopping him in ability. Not domestic simply is the picture, it rises into the political
sphere, even into the administration of justice.

Is the character of the woman, as thus set forth, possibly a thousand years before Christ,
by a heathen poet in an uncivilized age comparatively, to be a prophecy unto us still at this
late date? Certainly the most advanced woman of to-day in the most advanced part of the world
as regards her opportunities, has hardly reached the height of Arete. Unquestionably a glorious
ideal is set up before the Sisterhood of all time for emulation; or is it unattainable? At
any rate the woman in Homer stands far in advance of her later historical position in Greece.

We may now turn to the husband for a moment, Alcinous the King, the man of civil authority
who represents the State, whose function is to be the protector of the Family and of whomever
the family receives into its bosom rightfully. He is the element surrounding and guarding the
warm domestic center; still he seems to have stronger impulses, or probably less governed,
than his wife. Distinctly is the superiority accorded to the woman in this discourse of Pallas
to Ulysses; possibly the Goddess may have overdrawn the picture a little in favor of her sex,
as really Alcinous becomes the more prominent figure later one.

So we catch a very fascinating glimpse of the Phæacian world. Two prominent characters representing
the two great institutions of man, Family and State, we witness; thus is the spirit of the
whole poem ethical. Here is no longer the realm of Calypso, the nymph of wild untrained nature,
but the clear sunlit prospect of home and country, the anticipation of sunny Ithaca and prudent
Penelope to the hapless sufferer. Ulysses sees his own land in the image of Phæacia, sees what
he is to make out of his own island. Verily it is a great and epoch-making experience for him
just before his return; he finds the ideal here which he is to realize.

Accordingly we have in line three women, Calypso, Nausicaa, Arete, through whose spheres Ulysses
has passed on his way to his own female counterpart, Penelope. We may see in them phases of
man's development out of a sensuous into an institutional life. Nor is the suggestion too remote
that we may trace in this movement certain outlines in the progress of mankind toward civilization.

In the mythical history of Phæacia which is also here given, we can observe the same development
suggested with greater distinctness. Already in the previous Book it was stated that the Phæacians
at first "dwelt near the insolent Cyclops," from whom they had to make the removal to their
present island on account of violence done them by their neighbors. But now we hear that both
Alcinous and Arete are descended on one side from the daughter of King Eurymedon, "who ruled
over the arrogant race of Giants," all of whom, both king and "wicked people," had perished.
On the other side the royal pair had the sea-god Neptune as their progenitor who was also the
father of the Cyclops Polyphemus. It is impossible to mistake the meaning of this genealogy
and the reason of its introduction at the present conjuncture. The Phæacians likewise were
sprung of the wild men of nature, and had been at one time savages; but they had changed, had
separated from their primitive kindred and begun the march of civilization. The poet has manifestly
before his mind this question: why does one branch of the same people develop, and another
branch lag behind; why, of two brothers, does one become civilized and the other remain savage?
Of this dualism Greece would furnish many striking illustrations, whereof the difference between
Athena and Sparta is the best known. Here the change from the locality of the Cyclops, implying
also the change in spirit, is made by a hero-king, "the large-souled Nausithous," evidently
a very important man to the Phæacians. Then this respect given to the woman has often been
noted as both the sign and the cause of a higher development of a people. At any rate the Phæacians
have made the great transition from savagery to civilization, and thus reveal the inherent
possibilities of the race.

We now begin to catch a hint of the sweep of the poem in these portions. Ulysses who has lapsed
or at least has become separated from his institutional life, must travel back to the same
through the whole rise of society; he has to see its becoming in his own experience, and to
a degree create it over again in his own soul, having lost it. Hence the evolution of the social
organism passes before his eyes, embodied in a series of persons and places.

In this Seventh Book, therefore, Ulysses is to make the transition to Family and State as shown
in Phæacia, and as represented by Arete and Alcinous. We shall mark three leading divisions:--

I. Ulysses enters the city in the dark, when he is met by Pallas and receives her instructions.
The divine principle again comes down and directs.

II. The external side of this Phæacian world is shown in the city, garden, and palace of the
king; nature is transformed and made beautiful for man. All this Ulysses now beholds.

III. The internal side of this Phæacian world, its spiritual essence, is shown in the domestic
and civil life of the rulers and nobles; of this also Ulysses is the spectator, recognizing
and appropriating.

Thus we see in the Book the movement from the divine to the human, which we have so often before
noticed in Homer. The three parts we may well put together into a whole: the Goddess of Intelligence
informs the mind of man, which then transforms nature and builds institutions. Here Pallas
simply directs Ulysses, who, however, is now to witness the works of mind done in Phæacia,
to recognize them and to take them up into his spirit.

I.

Ulysses follows the direction of Nausicaa and passes to the city stealthily in a kind of concealment;
"Pallas threw a divine mist over him," the Goddess now having the matter in hand. Moreover
she appeared to him in the shape of a young girl with a pitcher, who points out the house of
Alcinous and gives him many a precious bit of history in her prattle. Again we must see what
this divine intervention means; Pallas is in him as well as outside of him. These are suggestions
of his own ingenuity on the one hand, yet also the voice of the situation; indeed he knew them
essentially already from the instructions of Nausicaa. Still further, they are now a part of
the grand scheme, which is in the Olympian order, and hence is voiced by the Gods.

The poet introduces his mythical forms; we hear also the fabulous genealogy of the Phæacian
rulers, the meaning of which has been above set forth. They, too, Arete and Alcinous, have
come from the Cyclops, and have made the same journey as Ulysses, though in a different manner.
It must be remembered that he has had his struggle with the giant Polyphemus, one of the Cyclops,
whereof he will hereafter give the account. But the chief matter of the communication of Pallas
is to define to Ulysses the position and character of Arete, evidently a woman after her own
heart. In this way the Goddess, taking the part of a prattling maid, gives the royal pedigree,
and especially dwells on the importance of the queen. Also she throws side glances into the
peculiar disposition of the Phæacians, needful to be known to the new-comer. They are a people
by themselves, distrustful of other peoples; they too must be transcended.

It is well at this point to observe Homer's procedure in regard to Pallas. We can distinguish
two different ways of employing the Goddess. The poet says that Pallas gives to the Phæacian
women surpassing skill in the art of weaving. This is almost allegorical, if not quite; the
Goddess stands for a quality of mind, is subjective. Again, when she endows Ulysses with forecast
in an emergency, it is only another statement for his mental prevision. Many such expressions
we can find in the Odyssey; Pallas is becoming a formula, indicating simply some activity of
mind in the individual. But in the important places the Goddess is kept mythical; that is,
she voices the Divine Order, she utters the grand ethical purpose of the poem, or makes herself
a vital part thereof. Thus she is objective, truly mythical; in the other case she is subjective
and is getting to be an allegorical figure. The Odyssey, with its greater internality compared
with the Iliad, is losing the mythus.

There is a third way of using Pallas and the Gods which is hardly found in Homer, indeed could
not be found to any extent without destroying him. This is the external way of employing the
deities, who appear wholly on the outside and give their command to mortals, or influence them
by divine authority alone. Thus the Gods become mechanical, and are not a spiritual element
of the human soul. Virgil leaves such an impression, and the Roman poets generally. Even the
Greek tragic poets are not free from it; especially Euripides is chargeable with this sin,
which is called in dramatic language Deus ex machina.

Though the Homeric poems as wholes are not allegories, yet they have allegory playing into
them. Indeed the mythus has an inherent tendency to pitch over into allegory through culture.
Then there is a reaction, the mythical spirit must assert itself even among civilized peoples,
since allegorized Gods are felt to be hollow abstractions, having nothing divine about them.

There can hardly be a doubt that a proper conception of the relation of the deities to men
is the most important matter for the student of Homer. But it requires an incessant alertness
of mind to see the Homeric Gods when they appear to the mortal, and to observe that they are
not always the same, that they too are in the process of evolution. For instance, in the present
Book as well as elsewhere, Pallas must be noted as having two characters, a mythical and allegorical,
as above unfolded. Nitzsch, whose commentary on the Odyssey, though getting a little antiquated,
is still the best probably, because it grapples with so many real problems of the poem, says:
"It is wholly in Homer's manner to represent, in the form of a conversation with Pallas, what
the wise man turns over in his own mind and resolves all to himself" (Anmerkungen zu Homer's
Odyssee, Band II, S. 137). Very true, yet on the next page Nitzsch says that it is "entirely
wrong to suppose that Pallas represents the wisdom of Ulysses allegorically." But what else
is allegory but this embodiment of subjective wisdom? Now Nitzsch truly feels that Pallas is
something altogether more than an allegory, but he has failed to grasp distinctly her mythical
character, the objective side of the Goddess, and so gets confused and self-contradictory.

One of the best books ever written on Homer is Nägelsbach's Homerische Theologie, which also
wrestles with the most vital questions of the poem. But Nägelsbach's stress is almost wholly
on the side of the Gods, he seems to have the smallest vision for beholding the free, self-acting
man in Homer. In his first chapter (die Gottheit, the Godhead) he recognizes the Gods as the
upholders and directors of the Supreme Order (sec. 28); also they determine, or rather create
(schaffen) man's thought and will (sec. 42). What, then, is left for the poor mortal? Of course,
such a view is at variance with Homer in hundreds of passages (see especially the speech of
Zeus with which the action of the Odyssey starts, and in which the highest God asserts the
free-will and hence the responsibility of the man). Nägelsbach himself suspects at times that
something is wrong with his view and hedges here and there by means of some limiting clauses;
note in particular what he says about Ulysses (sec. 31), who is an exception, being "thrown
upon his own resources in cases of extreme need," without the customary intervention of the
Gods. But the man in his freedom, who co-operates with the God in the providential order, is
often brought before the reader in the Iliad as well as in the Odyssey (see author's Com. on
the Iliad, pp. 129, 157, 216, etc.).

II.

We now come to one of the most famous passages in Homer, describing the palace and garden of
Alcinous. First of all, we must deem it the outer setting of this Phæacian world with its spirit
and institutions, the framework of nature transformed which takes its character from within.
Civilized life assumes an external appearance corresponding to itself; it remodels the physical
world after its own pattern. The result is, this garden is in striking contrast with the bower
of Calypso, which is almost a wild product of nature. The two localities are mirrored surrounding
each home respectively. Again we observe how Homer employs the description of scenery: he makes
it reflect the soul as its center.

In a certain sense we may connect these Phæacian works with Pallas, who has directed Ulysses
hither; they are the works of intelligence. The arts and the industries spring up through the
transformation of nature. Here is first noted the palace of the king with certain hints of
its materials and construction; especially have the metals been wrought and applied to human
uses. Gold, silver, steel, brass or bronze are mentioned in connection with the palace and
its marvelous contents. Thus an ideal sense of architecture we note; still more strongly indicated
is the feeling for sculpture, the supreme Greek art. Those gold and silver watch-dogs at the
entrance, "which Vulcan made by his skill, deathless and ageless for all time;" those golden
boys "upon their well-built pedestals holding lighted torches in their hands" are verily indications
that the plastic artist has already appeared. The naive expression of life which the old poet
gives to the sculpturesque shapes in the palace of Alcinous, is fresh as the first look upon
a new world, which is indeed now rising.

But not only the Fine Arts, the Industries also are touched upon. Weaving is specially emphasized
along with navigation, one being the Phæacian woman's and the other being the Phæacian man's
most skillful work. Other occupations are involved in these two. Thus is marked the beginning
of an industrial society.

After the palace the garden is described with its cultivated fruit-trees--pear, pomegranate,
apples--a good orchard for to-day. Of course the vineyard could not be left out, being so important
to the Greek; three forms of its products are mentioned--the grape, the raisin, and wine. Finally
the last part is set off for kitchen vegetables, though some translators think that it was
for flowers. Nor must we omit the two fountains, such as often spout up and run through the
Greek village of the present time.

Undoubtedly fabulous threads are spun through this description. Quite too lavish a use is made
of the precious metals in the house of Alcinous, as in some fairy tale or romantic ballad;
so much gold is found nowhere outside of wonderland. In the garden fruit is never wanting,
some of it just ripe, some still green, some in flower. No change of season, yet the effect
of all seasons; surely a marvelous country it appears; still we learn that in Campania are
some sorts of grapes which produce thrice a year. A mythical garden is indeed the delight of
human fancy. Eden has its counterparts everywhere. Indeed a significant parallel might be drawn
between Greek Phæacia and the Hebrew Paradise; in the one, man unfolds out of savagery, in
the other he is created at once by a divine act. Can we not see Orient and Occident imaging
themselves in their respective ideal products? The one from below upwards, the other from above
downwards; both movements, the Greek and the Hebrew, belong to man, and have entered into his
civilization. The next world-poet, Dante, will unite the two streams.

III.

Ulysses now comes to the internal element of Phæacia, to its soul as it were, manifested in
the institutional life of Family and State. From this indeed is derived the beautiful world
which we have just witnessed; Art builds up a dwelling-place, which images the spirit of the
people to themselves and to others.

In accord with his instructions from both. Pallas and Nausicaa, he first goes to Arete and
clasps her knees in supplication, begging for an escort to his country. But behold! She hesitates,
notwithstanding his strong appeal to her domestic feeling and her sympathy with suffering.
What can be the matter? Another Phæacian, not of the royal house apparently, but of the nobles,
is the first to speak and command the stranger to be raised up and to be hospitably received.
An old religious man who sees the neglect of Zeus in the neglect of the suppliant, a man of
long experience, "knowing things many and ancient," is this Echeneus; him at once the king
obeys, the queen still remaining silent.

Soon, however, we catch the reason of her conduct in the question: "Stranger, where did you
get those garments?" She noticed Ulysses wearing the mantle and tunic "which she herself had
made with her servants," and which Nausicaa had given him. Surely this is a matter which must
be accounted for before proceeding further. Herein the woman comes out in her own peculiar
province; no man would ever have noticed the dress so closely; Alcinous did not, and wise Ulysses
in this case did not forecast so far out of his masculine domain. But the poet had made the
subtle observation and uses it as a turning-point in his little drama. Now we see the queen
before us: imagine a pair of dark eyes shooting indignation upon the man clothed with garments
intrusted this very morning to the daughter.

Nor should we fail to scan her second question: "Do you not say that you have come hither a
wanderer over the deep?" Verily the case is suspicious. Ulysses sees his plight, and at once
offers the most elaborate explanation, going back and giving a history of himself for the last
seven or eight years. Now we know why the poet specially praised the mind of Arete, and why
her husband so honored her, and why she could be judge of disputes among men. She shows the
keenest observation united with reasoning power; she stands out in contrast with the Phæacian
men, who follow impulse more readily than she, as she keeps the judicial balance, though a
woman, and demands evidence of truth from the uncertain stranger.

We may draw from this scene certain traits of the Phæacians, as we see here a man, a typical
man probably who is outside of the royal family. An ideal humanity seems to live in them; they
will receive the unfortunate wanderer and succor him to the fullest extent. More impressive
still is their religious faith; they live in intimate communion with the Gods, who appear in
person at the feast "sitting among us;" nor do the deities conceal themselves from the solitary
wayfarer; "since we are as near to them as are the Cyclops and the wild tribes of Giants."
So speaks Alcinous, hinting that kinship, which has been previously set forth; both himself
and Arete are the descendants of savages, who were children of the Gods of nature. But they
have risen into fellowship with the higher Gods of Olympus. The words of the king seemed to
be tinged with sarcasm at those inferior deities, parents of savagery, from whom, however,
they themselves are sprung. He cannot forget the Cyclops, the men of violence who once did
his people wrong.

In these mythical allusions, obscure enough just here, we have already traced the rise of Phæacia
into an ethical existence. The worship of the higher Gods is the emotional side of such a condition,
and the treatment of the suppliant marks an advance toward the conception of an universal humanity.
Still Phæacia, has its spiritual limits, genuine Greek limits, of which hereafter something
will be said.

It is sufficient to state that the speech of Ulysses has its effect, it contains a great deal
which appeals to the character of Arete; his leaving Calypso and his desire to return to his
home-life must be powerful motives towards winning her sympathy. Then she cannot help recognizing
and admiring his skill; there is an intellectual bond between them, as well as an ethical one.
Not much does she say hereafter, her part being finished; her husband takes the lead henceforth.
She has tested the wanderer, Alcinous can now preform the ceremonies.

We soon see that the king needs a counterpart in such a wife, he being impulsively generous;
he blames his daughter for her backwardness in not coming to town with Ulysses, whereat the
latter frames one of his smallest fibs in excuse of the maiden. Still further, the king in
a surprising burst of admiration, wishes that Ulysses, or "such an one as thou art," might
stay and be called his son-in-law. Altogether too sudden; Arete would not have said that, though
the woman be the natural match-maker. Still Alcinous, in a counter-outpouring of his generosity,
promises to send Ulysses to his own land, though "this should be further off than Euboea, the
most distant country." Thus overflows the noble heart of the king, but he clearly needs his
other half, in the thorny journey of life.

Thus has Ulysses reached the heart of Phæacia and found its secret beat; he has felt its saving
power, not simply externally but also internally; it rescues him from dangers of the sea and
of himself too. The truly positive side of life begins to dawn upon him again, after his long
career of struggle with dark fabulous shapes. Well may he pray Zeus for Alcinous: "May his
fame be immortal over the fertile earth"--a prayer which has been fulfilled, and is still in
the process of fulfillment. Arete gives the order to the servants to spread his couch for the
night's repose, she has received him.

In the sweep of the present Book, many origins are suggested. The genealogy of the king and
queen and people is significant, it might be called the genealogy of civilization. The woman
is placed at the center; out of her springs the family, and with it come society, state, the
institutional world.

Of such a world the external environment is seen in the garden, palace, and city of the Phæacians,
which are built by the spirit for its dwelling-place and reflect the spirit. The Greek world
of Beauty is born, and its course is foreshadowed; this ideal Homeric realm is prophetic of
what Greece is to become. The plastic arts and the industrial arts are suggested, and to a
degree are realized.

The artistic soul of Hellas is fully felt in Homer's Phæacia. The formative impulse is everywhere
alive and at work; the instinctive need of shaping and transforming nature and life is here
in its first budding, and will bloom into the greatest art-people of all time. Those two supreme
Fine Arts of mature Greece, Architecture and Sculpture, are present in examples which foretell
plainly Phidias and the Parthenon.

    King Alcinous; thy fair palace has had fairer offspring,
      Thou art ruling the world still by the beautiful form;
    Out of thy mansion majestic was born in a song the Greek Temple,
      Sentineled round with a choir--Titans columnar of stone,
    Bearing forever their burden to hymns of a Parian measure,
      Wearing out heaviest Fate to a Pindaric high strain.
    Look! those boys of thy garden with tapers are moving to statues,
      Seeming to walk into stone while they are bringing the light;
    Hellas springs out of thy palace all sculptured with actions
          heroic,
      Even the God we discern turning to marble by faith.

Such is the originative, prophetic character of Phæacia, which the reader must take profoundly
into his soul, if he would understand the genetic history of Greek spirit. Verily the poet
is the maker of archetypes and reveals in his shapes all that his people are to become.

    Thou, old Homer, wert the first builder in Greece, the first
          carver,
      Afterward she could but turn fancies of thine into stone;
    Architects followed thee, building thy poem aloft into temples,
      Sculptors followed thee too, thinking in marble thy line.

Nor must we forget the Industrial Arts here suggested--weaving, ship-building, the working
of metals; in general, there is hinted the varied transformation of nature, which begets a
civilized life. Agriculture is present, also horticulture, which the garden of Alcinous presupposes.
Such, then, is the grand frame-work for the social order as here portrayed.

But the chief art of the Homeric world has not yet been given, though it is at work now, and
is just that which has reproduced Phæacia with all its beauty. This is the poet's own art,
which having set forth the other arts, is next to set forth itself. Accordingly we are to see
the poet showing the poet in the following Book, which may, therefore, be named the Book of
the Bard. Thus we pass out of the industrial and plastic arts of Phæacia, into the supreme
art, the poetic, as it manifests itself in the Phæacian singer.

BOOK EIGHTH.

We observe a decided change in the present Book; it has a character of its own quite distinct
from the preceding Books. Yet it is on a line of development with them, we note a further spiritual
evolution which must be looked into with some attention. In general, Phæacia is now seen as
an art-world, in true correspondence with Hellas, of which it is a kind of ideal prototype.
In the two previous Books we saw portrayed chiefly institutional life in Family and in State.
But in this Book institutional life, though present and active, is withdrawn into the background,
and becomes the setting for the picture, yet also is the spirit which secretly calls forth
the picture. A poetic art-world now passes before us in entrancing outlines, a world filled
with song, dance, games, with all the poetry of existence.

Such an artistic development follows from what has gone before. Man, having attained culture,
civilization, and a certain freedom from the necessity of working for his daily bread, begins
to turn back and look at his career; he observes the past and measures how far he has come.
The image of himself in his unfolding he beholds in art, specially in the poetic art, whose
essence must at last be just this institutional life which has been described in Phæacia. He
attains it and then steps back and portrays his attaining of it; having done the heroic deed,
he must see himself doing it forever, in the strains of the bard. Art is thus the mirror of
life and of institutions; it reflects the grand conflict of the times and the people; it seizes
upon the supreme national event, and holds it up in living portraiture along with its heroes.

Now the great event which lies back of Phæacia at the present time, in fact lies back of all
Greece for all ages, perchance lies back of all Europe, is the Trojan War. It was the first
emphatic, triumphant assertion of the Greek and indeed of the European world against the Orient.
The fight before Troy was not a mere local and temporary conflict between two quarrelsome borderers,
but it cuts to the very marrow of the World's History, the grand struggle between East and
West. Family and State are most deeply concerned in it, the restoration of the wife is the
main object of the Trojan War, which the chieftains of Greece must conclude victoriously or
perish. A new world was being born on this side of the Ægean, and the Greeks were its first
shapers and its earliest defenders. This occidental world, whose birth is the real thing announced
at Troy in that marvelous cradle-song of Europe, called the Iliad, has already begun its career,
and shows its earliest period in Phæacia. It is no wonder, then, that the Phæacian people wish
to hear the Trojan song, and it alone, and that the Phæacian poet wishes to sing the Trojan
song, and it alone.

Thus we behold in the present Book a quiet idyllic folk on their island home out in the West
listening to the mighty struggle of their race, with dim far-off anticipations of all that
it involved. Nor were the women indifferent. Arete, the wife and center of the Family, is not
henceforth to be exposed to the fate of Helen; think what would Phæacia be without her, or
she without Phæacia; think what she would be in Troy, for instance. Strong emotions must rise
in the breasts of all the people at hearing such a song.

But still stronger emotions well out of the heart of Ulysses. He is one of the heroes of the
Trojan War not yet returned, a living image of its sacrifices. Of course, he is the main hero
sung of by the bard in the present Book; such is the artistic adaptation of the Homeric work,
clearly done with a conscious design. Ulysses has already passed through several stages--Calypso,
Nausicaa, Arete; now he has reached the poet, Demodocus certainly, and perchance Homer himself,
who is to sing not only of the Trojan War, but also of its consequences--this rise of man's
spiritual hierarchy as here unfolded, from Nature, into Institutions, and thence into Art.
After hearing Demodocus, Ulysses picks up the thread and becomes his own poet, narrating his
adventures in Fairyland with the free full swing of the Homeric hexameter. Thus he acquires
and applies in his own way the art of Phæacia; the arch of his life spans over from the heroic
fighter before Troy to the romantic singer before the Phæacian court.

It is plain, therefore, that this Book is distinctively the Book of the Bard. In the experience
of Ulysses, Demodocus is placed on a line with the three leading figures in the last three
Books--they being women, while the singer must be a man. One reason is, possibly, that a Phæacian
woman could not be permitted to sing such a strain as the story of Venus and Mars. At any rate,
he is fourth in the row of shapes, all of which are significant. We catch many touches of his
personality; he is blind, though gifted with song; "evil and good" he has received, and is
therein a typical man. It is in every way a beautiful loving picture, painted with strong deep
undertones of sympathy; no wonder is it, therefore, that Demodocus in all ages has been taken
as a portrait of Homer by himself, showing glimpses of the man, of his station in life, and
of his vocation. Later on we shall consider this point in more detail.

The three songs of the bard furnish the main landmarks for the organism of the Book. All of
them will be found more or less intimately connected with the great event of the immediate
Past, the story of Troy. Phæacia shows an intense interest in that story and the bard approves
himself its worthy singer. Indeed the three songs stand in direct relation to the Iliad; the
first deals with an event antecedent to the Iliad; the second has the theme of the Iliad, though
in a changed form, inasmuch as the seducer, the wife and the husband are here Gods (Mars, Venus,
Vulcan) instead of mortals (Paris, Helen, Menelaus); the third deals with an event subsequent
to the Iliad. Yet the singer carefully avoids repeating anything in the Iliad. It is almost
impossible not to think that he had not that poem in mind; or, rather, we are forced to conclude
that the present author of the Odyssey knew the Iliad, and we naturally think that both were
by the same man. Demodocus is the singer of the Trojan War, yet he shuns singing what has already
been sung about it. Herein we may catch another faint reflection of Homer, the organizer, the
transfigurer of old legends into his two poems. Note also that he hovers around the Iliad,
before and after it, yet never into it, here and elsewhere in the Odyssey; specially in the
Third Book have we observed the same fact.

In the present Book, however, is another strand; besides these songs of the bard belonging
to the past are the doings in Phæacia belonging to the present, which doings have a connection
and a correspondence with the songs. Thus we observe three divisions in the Book, and two threads
which run through these divisions. The following outline may serve to show the general structure:--

I. There is the representation of the struggle between the physical and mental in what may
be called Phæacian art; skill and strength have an encounter shown in two ways:

    1. Past, heroic, ideal; the contest between Ulysses and Achilles at
    Troy; intelligence vs. mere courage. Sung by the bard. Pre-Iliad.

    2. Present, real, not heroic; the games in which there is a contest
    also, and in which both skill and strength are involved, with the
    preponderance of the physical.

II. Now we drop to the sensuous inactive side of the Phæacian world, the luxurious, self-indulgent
phase of their life, which is also imaged in their art doubly:

    1. Past; an Olympian episode, a story of illicit love among the
    Gods, corresponding to the story of Helen on earth. Sung by the
    bard.

    2. Present; hints concerning the sensuous life of the Phæacians who
    love the feast, the song, the warm bath and bed, along with dance
    and music, showing their pleasure in art. Return of the men from
    the market-place to the palace and into the presence of Arete.

III. We pass to what may be called the triumph of intelligence and the recognition thereof,--Phæacian
art is again introduced, Ulysses is revealed.

    1. Past, heroic, ideal; Troy is taken by skill, by the Wooden
    Horse, not by the physical might and courage of Achilles. Sung by
    the bard. Post-Iliad. This may be considered also a triumph over
    Venus who favored Troy.

    2. Present; Ulysses weeps, his tears are noticed by Alcinous, who
    demands his name, country, travels. Ulysses has already in a number
    of ways discovered himself as connected with the past, with the
    Trojan War. In the next Book he tells his name, country, character,
    adventures.

If we scan the sweep of this outline, we observe that it opens with the conflict between Brain
and Brawn, or between Mind and Might, and ends in the victory of Mind in the grand Trojan conflict.
Similar has been the movement hitherto, from Calypso onwards, which, however, shows the ethical
conflict. Still the intellectual and the ethical spheres have to subordinate the natural, and
mind is the common principle of both.

As an introduction to the Book we have an account of the men assembling in the marketplace,
where "they sat on polished stones near one another." Pallas has, of course, to be employed,
though in a passing and very subordinate way; she acts as herald to call the assembly together,
and thus stamps it with a divine import. We must grant to the poet his right, but the Goddess
seems almost unnecessary here, as the herald could have done the same work. Once more Pallas
interferes: "she sheds a godlike grace upon the head and shoulders of Ulysses," imparting to
him majesty and beauty, "that he might be dear to all the Phæacians," those lovers of the beautiful
in art and life. Thus, like a visible deity, he was "to be feared and to be revered;" strength
also the Goddess gave him, "that he might accomplish all the contests which the Phæacians would
try him with." Thus is the Hero prepared divinely.

Alcinous makes a speech to the assembly, touching the wanderer, who is again promised an escort
to Ithaca; the king chooses the crew, and the ship is launched. Meanwhile, however, there is
to be a sacrifice with festival, the bard is led in and his harp adjusted, his portion of food
and drink not being omitted, for he is not a hired musician, but an equal at the feast.

We are now to witness two kinds of entertainment, both of which according to the Greek conception,
belong to the sphere of art. The one is an heroic song, and is thrown into the past; the other
is a trial of bodily skill and strength, and belongs to the present. Both kinds show contest,
and this contest is mainly between the physical and the spiritual elements in man. Which is
paramount? Each is necessary, yet one must be subordinate.

1. Note, first of all, the theme of the bard: "The Muse inspired him to sing the strife between
Ulysses and Achilles, the fame whereof had reached high Heaven." The Trojan War lies manifestly
in the background of the quarrel. When did it take place, at what period during the struggle?
There is nothing to settle the question decisively, such a dispute might have arisen almost
at any time. But as it is the antecedent trouble in the Greek army, a dualism which this army
brings with itself in its leaders, we may reasonably put it somewhere towards the beginning.
This is also the opinion of Nitzsch (Com. ad loc.), who places the scene of the dispute on
the island of Tenedos, in sight of the walls of Troy and who cites the old Cypria in support
of his opinion. Other ancient authorities place it after the death of Hector; not long before
the fall of the city.

Concerning the subject of the dispute there is little difference of opinion. The Greek commentator,
Eustathius (died about 1200 A.D.) cites the following legend in reference to it: "Agamemnon,
having consulted the Delphic Oracle about the result of the Trojan War, received the answer
that Troy would be taken when the best men of the Greeks would begin to quarrel. At a feast
a dispute arose between Achilles and Ulysses, the former maintaining that Ilion would be captured
by bravery, the latter by skill and cunning." Hence the joy of Agamemnon at what would otherwise
be regarded as a ground for sorrow.

The response of the Oracle was ambiguous, yet even out of its ambiguity we may read something.
Achilles, the man of courage, was regarded as the hero of the Greeks, but this opinion must
be contested, and wisdom must also have its place in the management of the war, before the
hostile city can be taken. These two principles are represented by Achilles and Ulysses respectively.
The God of Wisdom, Apollo, responds, therefore, in accord with his character, carefully, doubtfully,
not taking a decisive stand on either side, uttering an oracle which itself needs interpretation.
Still we can see that it means a protest against mere brute courage--a protest which Ulysses
voices. The Trojan Horse, the grand successful stratagem, may be considered as the outcome.

In Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida, the same subject is worked over very fully and is indeed
the main pivot of the drama, in which Achilles is substantially deposed from his heroship and
replaced by Ulysses. The contest between mind and might or skill and courage, is what the English
poet took from his Greek elder brother in part and in part derived from later legend. The struggle
between brain and brawn was indeed a vital one in the Greek camp; there was always the danger
lest the spirit would got lost in its physical manifestation. Indeed the danger of the Greek
world was just this, and it perished at last of the same disease which we already notice at
Troy. It fell to a worship of the sensuous in life and art, and so lost its soul in a grand
debauch.

2. King Alcinous has noticed that Ulysses hid his face and wept at the song of the bard. Thus
strong emotion seizes him on hearing the strife at Troy, while the Phæacians listen with delight.
Such is the contrast, hinting two very different relations to the song. But the king will divert
him from his grief, and so calls for the games to show him "how much we excel others in boxing,
wrestling, leaping and running." The quoit was also one of the games.

In like manner Achilles is diverted from his sorrows for his friend Patroclus, by an elaborate
exhibition of games, which are set forth in Book Twenty-Third of the Iliad. Contests of strength
and skill they are, showing the body under control of mind and manifesting the same up to a
certain point. They have an artistic side and train the man physically, requiring also no little
mental alertness.

When the Phæacian contestants had finished, there was an attempt to bring Ulysses into the
game and have him show what he was, but he declined the courteous invitation; "cares are in
my mind more than games." Then Euryalus taunts him with being a merchant, or robber, and no
athlete. Ulysses makes a caustic reply, picks up the quoit, and hurls it far beyond the marks
of the others; then with some display of temper he challenges any of the Phæacians present
to any kind of contest. He even becomes boastful, and tells what he is ready to do in the way
of games; still further, he can shoot the bow and throw the javelin in heroic fashion--which
accomplishments he will employ with telling effect against the suitors hereafter.

Alcinous pacifies him with gentle words, and proceeds to withdraw all his previous claims extolling
Phæacian athletic skill. The soft arts of peace are theirs; "in boxing and in wrestling we
have small fame;" but on the other hand "we delight in feasts, we love the harp and dance;"
new clothes are in favor, and "we like the warm bath and bed." Very different is now the call
of King Alcinous from that last one: let the stranger see "how much we excel others in the
dance and song," to which is strangely added seamanship. Such is the preparation for the lay
of the loves of Mars and Venus.

Through these games the heroic strand in the stranger has been brought to light, somewhat in
contrast with the Phæacians. As he had a contest of mind with Achilles at Troy, so he has now
a contest which shows his physical might; he is no weakling in spite of his intellect. Pallas
too does not fail him, she marks his superiority in the throw of his quoit, and thus inspires
him with courage.

II.

We have now reached the second song of the bard, for the way has been smoothed by the preceding
description of the luxurious delights of the Phæacians. It is often called the Loves of Venus
and Mars, or the Adulterers caught on Olympus. From time immemorial much doubt of various sorts,
poetical, moral, philological, has been cast upon this song. Some ancient commentators have
regarded it an interpolation, not a genuine part of Homer; modern expositors have not hesitated
to follow the same opinion.

And indeed there are strong grounds for suspicion. Almost every reader feels at the first perusal
its jar with the general character of this idyllic Phæacian world; it is decidedly adverse
to the spirit of Arete and Nausicaa, as previously unfolded; the fact would almost seem impossible
that, in an atmosphere created chiefly by these two women, there could be such a kind of artistic
enjoyment. The most conservative reader is inclined here to agree with those who perform an
act of excision upon the text of Homer. The whole passage grates too harshly upon nerves which
have been attuned to the sweet innocent life depicted in the two preceding Books.

The objections to the song may be summed up in the following heads. (1) It is inconsistent
and deeply discordant with the ethical tone of Phæacia already given. (2) It does not further
Ulysses in any way, it shows no trait in his character, unless his faint approval signifies
his liking for such songs. Nor does it seem on the surface to connect him with Troy, as do
the other two songs of Demodocus. (3) It gives an unworthy view of the Gods, degrading them
far below Homer's general level, reducing them to ordinary burlesque figures which violate
all decency, not to speak of morality. (4) Philologists have picked out certain words and expressions
peculiar to this passage, which, not being employed by Homer elsewhere, tend to indicate some
other author.

Still, if the passage be an interpolation, this must have taken place early in the history
of the poems. Pausanias the traveler declares that he saw the dancing scene of the Phæacians
depicted upon the throne of Apollo at Amyclæ, the artist of which probably flourished about
600 B. C. The old philosopher Heraclitus, who would scourge Homer from the festivals of the
Gods, doubtless had this passage in mind. Plato censures its indecency specially, and, as is
well known, would exclude all Homer from his ideal Republic. The ancients thus accepted the
passage as Homeric, with the exception of some of the later grammarians.

Next come the many attempts, old and new, to allegorize the Olympian scene, or to explain it
away. From the fact that the sun keeps watch and is mentioned twice in this part, the latest
school of mythologists, the comparative so-called, have taken much comfort, and have at once
found in the whole a sun-myth. Some ancient expositors, according to Athenæus, interpreted
it as a story written for the purpose of deterring the listeners from doing similar bad deeds,
pointing to the punishment even of Gods herein designated; thus they sought to save the credit
of Homer, treating him quite as some commentators have treated certain morally questionable
stories in the Bible. Thus along down the ages to the present the loves of Venus and Mars have
created trouble.

Undoubtedly the song has meaning and deserves a rational exposition. Has it any connection
with the other songs of this Book, or with Homer in general? It is certainly a product of early
Greek poesy; can it be organically jointed into anything before it and after it? The burlesque
tone which it assumes towards certain Olympians has caused it to be connected with the Battle
of the Frogs and Mice, and with the war of the Gods in the Iliad (Book Twenty-First). Let us
extend our horizon, and take a new look in various directions.

In the first place this song connects with Troy and the Iliad like the other two songs of Demodocus.
The cause of the Trojan War and of its poem was the deed of Paris. The seducer, the wife, the
husband--Paris, Helen, Manelaus--are the three central figures of the legend. Here this legend
is thrown up among the Gods themselves, who furnish three corresponding characters--Mars, Venus,
Vulcan. Then there is the wrong and the punishment of the wrong in both cases. Such is the
theme of the Trojan War as it appears in the Iliad. Thus the three songs of Demodocus indicate
a Pre-Iliad, an Iliad, and a Post-Iliad in due order.

In the second place one asks very emphatically: Why this present treatment of the Gods on Homer's
part? But here we must make an important distinction. The Supreme God, Zeus, does not appear,
nor does Juno nor does Pallas, indeed none of the Goddesses except the guilty one. The disgrace
falls upon two mainly: Mars and Venus. In the Iliad they are Trojan deities hostile to the
Greeks, and here the Greek poet serves them up together in an intermezzo, which makes them
comic. Indeed the Greek Hero Diomed fights and puts down just these two Trojan deities in the
Fifth Book of the Iliad. So must every Greek Hero at Troy conquer Mars and Venus (Violence
and Lust, to give a suggestion of their purport) before Helen can be restored to home and country;
he must put down the hostile city and its Gods. Note too, whither the Greek poet sends each
of these deities after their release: Mars flies off to Thrace, a distant, barbarous country,
beyond the borders of Hellas, where he can find his own; Venus on the contrary slips away southeastward
to Cyprus inhabited by peoples Oriental or Orientalizing, and therein like Troy and herself.
Both rush out of Greece with all speed; they belong somewhere in the outskirts of the Greek world.

We may now see why the Phæacians, without being so very wicked, could find an element in the
song which they enjoyed. To them, with the Trojan War always in mind, this was the theme: the
adulterous Trojan deities caught and laughed out of Olympus--those being the two deities who
first misled by desire and then tried to keep by war the beautiful Helen, the Greek woman.
Throwing ourselves back into his spirit, we may also see why Ulysses, the old war-horse from
Troy, "was rejoiced in his heart, hearing the song" which degraded and burlesqued the Gods
whom he had fought ten years, and who were, in part at least, the occasion of his wandering
ten more. Venus and Mars did not find much sympathy in the Phæacian company, we may be sure.
Why then regard them as Gods? The Greek deified everything; even the tendencies which he felt
himself obliged to suppress had something of the divine in them. Calypso, whom Ulysses subordinated
at last to the higher principle, was a Goddess; Troy, the hostile city, had its deities, whom
the Greek recognised. Now its two chief deities are involved in a common shame, and flee from
Olympus, flee almost outside of the Greek world. Certainly the audience could take some ethical
satisfaction in that.

Then there is a third consideration different from the two preceding, both of which seek to
look at the song from the ancient Greek standpoint. But from our modern standpoint it is also
to be regarded. There is no doubt that we see here the beginning of the end of polytheism;
the many Gods collide with one another, some are now put out and all will be finally put out;
they are showing their finitude and transitoriness. Still further, we catch a glimpse of the
sensuous side of Greek life, the excess of which at last brought death. Homer is the prophet
of his people, when read with insight; he tells not only what they are, but hints what they
are to become.

In general, we pass in this second part of the present Book as we have divided it, to the sensuous
element of the Phæacian world, the inactive, quiet, self-indulgent phase, in decided contrast
to the preceding part which shows a love of manly action in games and in war. Let us still
further develop the twofold way in which this fact is brought out.

1. The second song of Demodocus has the general theme of the Trojan War and suggests the grand
event of the aforetime. It manifestly carries the Trojan scission into Olympus and drives out
in disgrace the Trojan deities. Vulcan, the wronged husband, is the divine artificer; he makes
a network of chains which could not be broken, "like a spider's web, so fine that no one could
see it, not even a God;" in this snare the guilty deities are caught, exposed, punished. These
invisible, yet unbreakable chains have an ethical suggestion, and hint the law which is also
to be executed on Olympus, as it was below in Troy. As Vulcan is the artist among the Gods,
we are prompted to find also an artistic bearing in the scene; the artist catches the wrong-doers
by his art and holds them fast in a marvelous net where they still lie, and shall lie for all
time; even the intercession of Neptune cannot get them free. The scene is indeed caught out
of the reality and holds to-day; the dashing, finely-uniformed son of Mars (so called at present)
is most apt to win the heart of the gay, fashionable, beautiful daughter of Venus, have an
escapade, and cause a scandal. Oft too they are caught in our modern, most adroitly woven spider's
web, which goes under the name of newspaper, and held up, if not before a seeing Olympus, at
least before a reading public, which not seldom indulges in conversation very much in the style
of the Gods as here set forth. We moderns do not go to the market-place to hear such a strain,
but have it brought to us in the Morning Journal. One advantage the Phæacian had: Arete and
Nausicaa did not go to the market-place, where this song was sung, only men were there, but
the print will enter the household where are wife and daughter. At any rate, we have to pronounce
the song of Demodocus typical, universal, nay, ethical in spite of its light-hearted raillery,
inasmuch as the deed is regarded as a breach of divine law, is exposed and punished, and the
recompense for the release of the guilty pair, the penalty, is duly stated in accordance with
law. Not every modern story-teller is so scrupulous, in meting out justice to ethical violation.

2. So much for the song; we turn again to the Phæacians, who are not now engaged in athletic,
but in a milder sport, the dance. Youths moved their bodies in tune to the strain; still in
Greece the dance and the song often go together. Then two danced alone without the song, but
employed a ball, tossing it from one to the other, for the amusement of the spectators. A rhythmical
movement of the body in the dance shows more internality than the athletic game, but it is
less hardy, is more indicative of luxury and effeminacy.

On account of these enjoyments, which have been unrolled before us in so many striking pictures,
the Phæacians have been regarded by some writers both in ancient and modern times as the mythical
Sybarites devoted simply to a life of pleasure. The love of the warm bath and clean clothes,
the dance and the song, above all the second lay of Demodocus have given them a bad name. Heraclides
Ponticus derived their whole polity of non-intercourse, of concealment, of sending away the
stranger as soon as possible out of their island, from their desire to resign themselves more
completely to their luxurious habits, without foreign disturbance. Horace expresses a similar
view of this people. Nitzsch in Commentary (ad loc.) defends the Phæacians warmly against the
charge, and the view that Arete and Nausicaa cannot be products of a corrupt society holds
good. An idyllic people, not by any means enervated, though pleasure-loving--so we must regard
them. That lay of the bard, rightly looked into, does not tell against them as strongly as
is sometimes supposed. Still Heraclides touched upon a limitation of Phæacia in his criticism,
it refused to join the family of nations, it sought to be a kind of little China and keep all
to itself. It had solved, however, the problem of external war and of internal dissension;
no dispute with neighboring nations about commercial privileges, no local strife which cannot
be settled by Arete. The poet has as nearly as possible succeeded in eliminating the negative
element out of this society. An unwarlike folk, but not effeminate, happy in peace, with a
childlike delight in play, which is the starting-point of art, and remains its substrate, according
to Schiller; truly idyllic it must be regarded, a land on the way between nature and civilization,
where life is a perpetual holiday, and even labor takes on a festal appearance.

Ulysses gives the palm of excellence in the dance to the Phæacians, and with this recognition
the king proposes a large number of presents--hospitable gifts, such as the host gives to his
honored guest. Moreover an apology and a gift are required of that Euryalus who recently offended
Ulysses. Thus reconciliation is the word and the deed. Then all are ready to return to the
palace into the presence of Arete, who is the orderer, and she makes arrangements for packing
up the gifts. Note the warm bath again, supposed sign of effeminacy; here it is taken by Ulysses
with decided approbation. Nausicaa, too, appears in a passing glance, and simply asks to be
remembered for her deed; the response of Ulysses is emphatic: when he gets home he "will pray
to her as to a God day by day, for thou, O maiden, hast saved my life."

In this round of recognition, the bard must not be forgotten; he is again led in, a banquet
is served, and Ulysses takes special pains to honor him "with a part of the fat back of a white-tusked
boar," and to speak a strong word of commendation: "Demodocus, I praise thee above all mortals;
either the Muse or Apollo has taught thee, so well dost thou sing the fate of the Greeks."

III.

The praise of the bard naturally leads to the third portion of the Book, introduced by another
song, which has its intimate connection with the preceding ones. Then its effect is noted upon
Ulysses, who weeps as before, being stirred by many memories of companions lost. Verily Troy
is a tearful subject. What motive for weeping? Who is this stranger anyhow? Alcinous now starts
his interrogations which Ulysses answers in the following Book. Still, though nameless, he
has unfolded himself quite fully through his actions in this Book. Again we hear the deeds
of the aforetime sung by the poet, and see their influence in the present.

1. Ulysses himself now asks the poet to sing of the Wooden Horse which "was made by Epeius
with the aid of Pallas," the Goddess here standing for skill, as it is now skill which takes
Troy, not mere courage. Then mark further: Ulysses was the man who introduced it within the
Trojan walls by stratagem--clearly another case of brain-work rather than brawn-work. This
famous Wooden Horse was "filled with men who took Troy." Such is the song which Ulysses now
calls for, mentioning himself by name--a fact which makes the announcement of his name soon
after more impressive and dramatic. The Phæacians had just heard the culminating act in the
taking of Troy, whereof Ulysses was the hero; behold! he stands before them, in all the prestige
of song. Some critics have wondered why the name of Ulysses was withheld so long, and have
imagined all sorts of interpolations; surely they have not seen the plan of the poet.

The Wooden Horse is not employed in the Iliad, but is one of the striking details of the later
epics, which recounted the destruction of Troy. The song of Demodocus carries the incident
back to the time of Homer, and before Homer, for it suggests antecedent ballads or rhapsodies
which Homer knew, but did not use, and which poets after him developed. The Odyssey takes for
granted that its hearers knew the Lay of the Wooden Horse, and also the Lay of the Strife between
Ulysses and Achilles, "the fame of which had reached the broad Heavens." Thus we get a peep
into the workshop of Homer and catch a glimpse of his materials, which he did not invent, but
found at hand. Homer is the builder, the architectonic genius; he organizes the floating, disparate
songs of his age into a great totality, into a Greek Temple of which they are the stones. Note
what he does with this lay of Demodocus; he puts it into its place in the total structure of
the Odyssey, and thus preserves it forever. So he has done with all his materials doubtless.

We may now see that those who cut up the Homeric poems into so many different songs or ballads
simply destroy the distinctive work of Homer. They pry asunder the beautiful Greek Temple,
lay its stones alongside of one another, and say: behold the poet. But this is just what he
is not, and in the present Book we may see him unfolding his own process. Homer is not Demodocus,
but the latter's lay he takes up and then weaves what he wants of it into the texture of the
total poem. He is thus a contrast to the bard, whom, however, he fully recognizes and makes
a part of his own work. Thus Homer himself really answers the Wolfian theory, which seeks to
reduce him to a Demodocus, singing fragmentary lays about the Trojan War.

From the Greek poets the Wooden Horse passed to Virgil, who has made it the best-known incident
of the Trojan War. It is probably the most famous stratagem of all time, due to the skill of
Ulysses. Herein lies the answer to the first lay of Demodocus; in the dispute Ulysses is right,
indeed he is a greater hero than Achilles, who could never have captured the hostile city.
The incident took place after the action of the Iliad, and after the death of Achilles, who,
heroic in courage, stood in the way of intelligence. When he is gone, the city falls, overthrown
by the brain of Ulysses.

Homer does not pretend to give the song of Demodocus in full, but a brief summary of what he
sang before the Phæacians. A later poet, Arctinus, took up the legend here alluded to, and
developed it in a separate epic, called the Iliou-persis or Sack of Troy. Indeed a vast number
of legends and lays about the Trojan War bloomed into epics, which were in later times joined
together and called the Epic Cycle. Thus we distinguish two very different stages of consciousness
in early Greek poetry: the ballad-making and the epical, Homer being the supreme example of
the latter, and Demodocus an instance of the former.

Looking back at the three lays of the bard in the present Book we find that they all are connected
together in a common theme of which they show different phases, beginning, middle and end--the
conflict before the Iliad, the conflict of the Iliad, and the conflict after the Iliad, all
hovering around the great national enterprise of the Greeks, namely the Trojan War, in which
the deepest principle of the Hellenic world, indeed of the entire Occident, was at stake.

But Homer, in distinction from Demodocus, weaves into his poem not only the past but the present,
not only Troy but Phæacia, not only the movement against the East but also the movement toward
the West, of which Phæacia is simply one stage. The Hero who unites these two great movements
of Greek spirit is now brought before us again.

2. Ulysses weeps at the song of the bard which recalls so many memories of friends departed
and of dire calamities. These tears connect him deeply with Troy and its conflict; the Phæacians
listen intently, but are outside of the great struggle, they shed no tears. Thus does Ulysses
in his strongest emotions unite himself with the Trojan enterprise of aforetime. He is not
simply a wanderer over the sea seeking to get home, but a returner from Troy; he has revealed
himself through his feelings. He personally shares in the woes sung by the bard, because he
has experienced them. Indeed the very image which the poet here employs to express sorrow,
taken from the woman whose husband has been slain fighting for his city, and for his wife and
his children, recalls Hector, Andromache and Astyanax as they appear in the Sixth Book of the
Iliad. Ulysses is like such a woman, without home or family, alone among strangers, shedding
tears. Thus he connects himself with the fateful story of Ilium.

Previously Ulysses wept at the first lay of Demodocus, now he emphasizes his sorrow by repetition.
Whenever the theme of Troy is touched, he has to respond with tears; the second time of weeping
at the Trojan tale is necessary in order to fix his character and identify him as a returner.
Yet this repetition so vitally organic is questioned by many critics, some of whom resort to
excision. It is hardly worth the while to notice them in their various attempts at destruction
and construction; when we once catch the underlying motive all becomes plain. The first and
last scenes of weeping unifies the Book, the bond of tears holds its parts indissolubly together
in the emotions.

Alcinous has observed the stranger both times, sitting near him, while we may suppose that
the other Phæacians, not noticing him, to be further off. The king sees his distress and even
hears his sobs; in the first case the royal host refrained from inquiry, that being the duty
of hospitality; but now the time for interrogation has arrived. The speech of Alcinous is characteristic;
full of humanity, full of sympathy is the tone: "a guest, a suppliant stands for a brother
even to the man of little feeling." A touch of prophetic boastfulness he shows here and elsewhere;
the ships of the Phæacians he endows with supernatural powers, which fact, however, is not
without meaning: "We have no pilots, no rudders even, our boats obey our thoughts, and know
the cities and lands to which they come; very quickly do they shoot across the wave, hid in
fog and cloud." Truly an ideal ship, which time has not yet realized, though recent navigation,
with its present steam and its future electricity, is on the way thereto. Still angry Neptune
threatens danger and may work damage, "smiting the ship on the dark deep." This speech of Alcinous
with its miraculous, prophetic tinge, with its far-seeing hints of coming realities, almost
foretelling our modern humanity and our modern mastery of the sea through science, and putting
the two side by side, has given much trouble to the critics, whom we again shall have to pass
by, as they simply darken the poet.

Finally comes the demand: who art thou and why didst thou weep? What is thy relation to Troy?
Such is the culminating question; Ulysses has been unfolding himself more and more throughout
the present Book before the king and people. The games showed his heroic strength; the dances
brought out his recognizing and harmonious spirit; the lays of Demodocus have developed his
connection with Troy. He clearly belongs to the past and to the present, possibly he is a bridge
spanning them, which bridge he may be induced to build in wondrous rainbow colors before the
eyes of the Phæacians.

Appendix. It seems never to have been noticed what an important relation the present Book sustains
toward the Wolfian theory concerning the Homeric poems. The picture of Demodocus here given
doubtless suggested to Wolf the first outline of his view, and has influenced other commentators
who lean toward similar opinions. It is well known that Wolf in his famous Prolegomena maintains
that the Iliad and Odyssey were originally a string of ballads more or less disconnected, and
that Homer was only one of the many balladists, probably the best; furthermore he holds that
these ballads were brought together, edited and put into their present shape by certain literary
men called diaskeuastoe--revisers, redactors, professors of poetry and philology at the court
of Peisistratus, about 500 B.C.

That is, Wolf regards Homer as a Demodocus, a singer and also a maker of disjointed ballads
and war-songs, the latter pertaining mostly to the heroes of the Trojan War. These were sung
at the festivals of the people, at the houses of the nobility, and at the courts of kings,
quite as we see the bard singing here in Phæacia. This fact we may accept; but the question
comes up: Is Homer such a balladist and nothing more?

Now it is clear that Homer is not a Demodocus, since the latter is not an epical builder, but
a simple singer of separate lays for the occasion. Mark well that Homer in this book does not
unfold the themes, "Strife between Ulysses and Achilles," and "The Wooden Horse," but simply
alludes to them as well-known; he barely gives the title and a little of the argument, then
drops the matter, leaving us to suppose that the Bard sang a somewhat lengthy lay, of which
the effect upon the hearers and specially upon Ulysses is duly noted.

Homer, therefore, in this Book as well as in the First Book where Phemius is introduced, makes
the Bard or Balladist merely one of his figures, and the song one of his incidents, while he,
the veritable Homer, portrays the total environment, showing the court, the games, the household,
the complete Phæacian world. Here we come upon the main distinction: Homer's eye is upon the
totality of which the ballad-singer is but a small fragment; Demodocus appears in but one Phæacian
Book, and is by no means all of that, though for once the leading figure.

A step further we may carry the thought. Homer is not only not a Demodocus, but he very distinctly
contrasts himself with Demodocus by his poetic procedure. If he is at such pains to show himself
a world-builder, and then puts into his world a ballad-singer as a passing character, he certainly
emphasizes the difference between himself and the latter. It is also to be noticed that Demodocus
does not sing an Iliad, though he chants lays of Troy; the Iliad is an organized work, not
a collection of ballads strung together. Everything about Demodocus indicates separate songs;
everything about Homer (the Iliad and the Odyssey) indicates unity of song. Hence with the
separatists, dissectors, anatomizers, Demodocus is a greater favorite than Homer, indeed he
has taken the place of Homer.

Moreover the poet has plainly marked another stage, a stage between himself and Demodocus.
In the next Book Ulysses will begin singing and continue through four Books, giving his adventures
in Fableland, which by itself possesses a certain completeness. Still it is but an organic
part of the total Odyssey, whose poetical architect is Homer. Ulysses as singer is clearly
higher than Demodocus; but Homer is above both, for he takes both of them up into his unity,
which is the all-embracing poem.

Most emphatically, therefore, Homer shows himself not to be a Demodocus, not to be a ballad-singer,
which is an essential point in the Wolfian argument. Homer himself refutes Wolf some 2,500
years beforehand, and his is still the best refutation. A careful study of this Eighth Book
settles the relation between balladist and poet by a simple presentation of the facts in their
proper co-ordination, and also puts the alert reader on the track of the genesis of the Wolfian
Prolegomena. For there can hardly be a doubt that Wolf, consciously or unconsciously, directly
or indirectly, derived his main conception of Homer from the present Book and from the part
that Demodocus, the bard, plays in it. To be sure, the idea that Demodocus, in a general way,
is Homer, is old, coming down from antiquity and suggesting itself to the modern reader, who
very naturally thinks that Homer is giving some traits of himself in his picture of the blind
singer. So much we may grant: some traits of himself, but not all by any means; Homer doubtless
upon occasion could sing a short lay of Troy for the amusement of his audience, like Demodocus;
but in such a part he is only a wee fragment of the author of those magnificent works, the
Iliad and the Odyssey. The total Homer builds totalities, by the very necessity of his genius.

Who, then, according to the theory, put these ballads together? Wolf, fully possessed of the
notion that Demodocus is Homer, starts to account for the present form of the poems, which
he assigns to the shaping hand of Peisistratus and his college of editors, critics, and poetasters.
That is, the grand marvel of Homeric poetry, the mighty constructive act thereof, he ascribes
to a set of men essentially barren and uncreative, for all of which he cites some very dubious
and inadequate ancient authority.

Here again we may be permitted to trace the Wolfian consciousness to its origin, for origin
it has in time and circumstance. Wolf was a professor in a University, and his department was
philology; his ideas on Homer are really drawn from his vocation and his surroundings. Why
should he not make a philologer and a professor the author of the Homeric poems? So he came
to imagine that the tyrant Peisistratus 500 B.C. had under his patronage a kind of German University,
or at least a philological seminary, whose professors really constructed Homer as we now have
him, having put him together out of antecedent ballads which the actual Homer and many others
may have made ages before. Wolf, therefore, is the founder of two philological seminaries;
one at the University of Berlin, and the other at the court of Peisistratus. Great is the professor
in smelling out the professor anywhere; still we cannot help thinking that what Wolf ascribed
to the old Greek seminary, was done only at his German seminary, namely, the patching together
of Homer out of ballads.

FABLELAND.

The movement of the second grand division of the poem, the Ulyssiad, has passed through two
of its stages, which have been already considered; the third is now reached which we have called
Fableland, though it may be said that the two previous lands are also fabulous. Let it then
be named the Fairy World, though this term also does not state or suggest the fact with precision.
Without troubling ourselves further about names, we shall proceed to seize the meaning by an
exposition given in some detail.

No careful reader can doubt that the poem changes decidedly at the present juncture in color,
style, environment and purpose. What reason for it? And what is the connection with the preceding
portion of the poem? Four Books (IX-XII) of the same character essentially, unfold themselves
before us and demand a new kind of appreciation; they are not idyllic, not epical; they form
a class of a peculiar sort, which class, however, we have before noticed in the Odyssey, showing
itself in short but suggestive interludes.

We shall, accordingly, first grapple with the leading facts of this new poetic order and seek
to interpret them, or rather let them interpret themselves. Phæacia, which we have just seen,
lies before Fableland, though the story of the latter is now told in Phæacia.

1. The first fact which strikes us is the decided contrast between the two realms. Phæacia
is the land of pure idyllic delight, its supreme characteristic is peace, its happy people
seem to have no conflict; Fableland, on the contrary, is one incessant course of strife, struggle
and calamity, beginning with the unprovoked attack on the Ciconians. Polyphemus the savage
Cyclops is the opposite of the civil ruler Alcinous; Circe, the enchantress, is the insidious
foe to domestic life represented by Arete; State and Family in Phæacia are counterbalanced
by an anti-State and an anti-Family in Fableland. Thus man and woman are shown in the two different
places as institutional and anti-institutional. Still deeper does the opposition reach; Phæacia
lies wholly in the Upperworld, with its sweet sunlight, while Fableland has a dim Underworld,
beyond the sunlight, the realm of the Supersensible; finally Fableland witnesses the supreme
negative act of man, typified in the slaying of the Oxen of the Sun. We may, therefore, affirm
that Fableland, as compared with Phæacia, shadows forth the realm of negation; the one stands
for the ideal Greek world of ethical order and harmony; the other is the denial and destruction
of the same.

But we must not omit the reverse side of the contrast. In Fableland there is one continued
striving of the human soul, a chafing against all limits, a moving forward from one stage to
another; the spirit of man is shown transcending its bounds everywhere. In Phæacia, however,
there is no striving apparently, it is contented with itself and stays with itself, seeking
no neighbors; it is the land of rest, of cessation from conflict, possibly of stagnation, unless
it is stirred by inner scission.

The transition from Phæacia to Fableland is, therefore, full of meaning. It is possible that
Ulysses or the poet wished to show these people the struggles which were slumbering in their
society, for all civilized order has the possibility of them. The negative spirit will rise
hereafter in their midst; so it rose in legendary Greece after the Trojan War, so it rose in
historical Greece after the Persian War. Thus we may catch a prophetic tinge in this web of
marvelous tales. On the other hand, we should note also that Ulysses has reached the land of
peace just through the realm of strife and negation.

2. The next important thing is to observe how the poet is going to locate, and environ this
negative world. As it is the opposite of the civilized order of Hellas, he throws it outside
of Hellenic boundaries. Over the Greek border somewhere it has to be placed; thus it passes
easily from the known to the unknown, out of the civilized to the barbarous, out of the natural,
to the supernatural.

All this we feel at once in the narrative. It is true that the first destructive deed, the
attack upon the Ciconians, occurs within the limits of historical Hellas, in a region well
known; but this act is the prelude and the example, the offenders are at once borne to the
Lotus-eaters, who have the faintest touch of historical reality, and thence to Polyphemus who
is wholly fabulous. In this realm of pure fable they stay till the end, having been cast out
of Greece by the poet on account of their hostile spirit.

Moreover we should note that they move about on the sea, that most unstable element, in contrast
to the fixed land; on the one there is order and law, on the other caprice and violence. Yet
certain fixed points are set in this uncertain domain, namely the islands, which however, are
wholly separated from Hellas and her life, and have inhabitants of their own, strangers to
Hellenic influence. Ulysses and his crew will pass from island to island, each of which will
show its meaning in some way antagonistic to Greek spirit. Out of the pale they all lie in
the boundless billowy waters; thus the Odyssey in this part becomes a sea poem, while in the
other two parts it is essentially a land poem. The Greek was and still is a native of both
sea and land which are physically interwined and bound together in Greece as in no other portion
of the globe. His great poetical book envisages his country as well as himself.

The main point, however, is that Fableland being negative to the Greek world is put outside
of all of its known geographical limits, and thus becomes the setting for the marvelous story.
It may here be added that Grimm's Tales have a similar border which lies between civilized
life and the forest, since the forest was, for our Teutonic ancestors, the fairy realm, in
which their supernatural beings dwelt for the most part. Out of culture back to nature the
human being sometimes has to go and have strange communings with the spirits there; such is
often the movement of the Fairy Tale. But who are these spirits or weird powers dwelling in
the lone island or in the solitary wood?

3. This question brings us to the pivotal fact of all Fableland: it is ruled over by a new
order of deities, not Olympians; the poet, throwing it out of Hellas below, throws it out of
Olympus above. Indeed what else could he do? The Gods of Greece are the protectors of its institutions,
State and Family; they are the embodiment of its spirit, of its civilization. But a spirit
is now portrayed which is negative to Greek spirit, which denies and defies it in its very
essence; the result is a new set of supernatural shapes which dominate the separated world.
The negation also must be seen taking on a plastic form, and appearing before the Greek imagination.

The deities of Fableland, or its supernatural powers, are therefore opposite to the deities
of Olympus. Hence their shape is changed, they can be even monstrosities, such as Polyphemus,
the Læstrigonians, Scylla and Charybdis. Circe and Calypso are beautiful women, yet not natural
women, in spite of their beauty; there is something superhuman about them, divine, though they
be not Olympians. Shapes of wonder they all seem, unreal, yet in intimate connection with mankind.
Moreover they are local, attached to a given spot, or island; they are not universal, they
have no general sway like the Olympians; limited, confined, particular is their authority,
which the human being can and must transcend.

At this point Olympus can descend into their world and give command. So, after all, the Greek
Gods rule over the realm which is negative to them, must do so, else they were not Gods. But
they are in a far-off background, namely, in civilized Hellas, beyond whose border Ulysses
passes in these Books. Still Zeus, the supreme Greek God, sends his decree to Calypso, when
Ulysses is ready to leave the Dark Island. Thus the Olympians exercise a final jurisdiction
even here. It is to be noticed, however, that Pallas has little to do with Ulysses in Fableland;
for is she not substantially negated? But when he touches Greece again, and even in Phæacia,
she will not fail to be at his side. She belongs not to Wonderland, but to the clear rational
realm of light and order; she cannot follow even her darling mortal through these dark mazy
wanderings.

It is manifest that the epical Upper World of the Gods has receded from the place it occupies
in the Iliad and in the other portions of the Odyssey; in fact, it has been largely but not
wholly supplanted. A new order of deities is portrayed, subordinate, yet authoritative in their
limited domain, which is cut off by the vast sea from united Hellas, and is thus made merely
individual and anti-social by its situation.

What are these shapes and why? Man has created them that he may indicate his own spiritual
state when he has fallen out with the established order. Really they are phases of the development
of the hero, who is reaching out through disbelief, denial, defiance, toward a restoration.
He is negative to the Greek consciousness, and this negation takes shape by mind, yet has to
be put down by mind. The whole process he projects out of himself into two lines of movement:
the first is the row of preternatural forms arranged as if in a gallery of antique sculpture,
the second is himself passing through these forms, grappling with them, mastering them, or
fleeing from them.

Such is this Fairy World which has crept in under the grand Olympian order in response to a
true necessity. Its beings are not natural, its events are not probable; thus the poet forces
us to look inward if we would see his meaning. Spirit is portraying spirit, and not externality,
which is here made absurd; in this manner we are driven out of the real into ideal, or we drop
by the way in reading those four Books.

4. But it must not for a moment be thought that Homer created this Fairy World or made, single-handed,
these Fairy Tales. The latter are the work of the people, possibly of the race. Comparative
folk-lore has traced them around the globe in one form or other. The story of Polyphemus is
really a collection of stories gathered about one central person; some portions of it have
been found in the East as well as the West, in Arabian and Tartar legend as well as in Celtic
and Esthonian. The subtle play upon the word "nobody" as a name is known far and wide by many
people who never heard of Homer. Wilhelm Grimm took the trouble to collect a lot of examples
from a great variety of sources, ancient, medieval and modern, European and Asiatic, in a special
treatise called the Legend of Polyphemus. Circe, the enchantress, has been discovered in a
Hindoo collection of Tales belonging in the main to the thirteenth century of our era; but
the witch who has the power of turning men into animals is as universal as folk-lore itself.
The werewolf superstition will furnish instances without number. The descent into Hades has
its parallel in the Finnish epic Kalevala, which reaches far back into Turanian legend; even
the North American and Australian savages have their heroes enter the world beyond, and bring
back an account of what is there. Truly one of the earliest needs of the human soul is this
striving to find and to shadow forth in mythical outlines the realm of the supersensible. Dante's
Journey through Inferno goes back to Virgil, Virgil goes back to Homer, and Homer to the folk-tales
of his people, and these folk-tales of Greece reach out to still more remote ages and peoples.
Thus into Christian legend the old heathen stories are transformed; many descents to Hell and
Purgatory, as well as visions of Heaven are recorded in the Middle Ages. It may be said that
folk-tales have an ancestry as old as man himself, and have followed him everywhere as his
spirit's own shadow, which he casts as his body casts its visible shadow.

A collection of Fairy Tales we may, then, consider these four Books, with its giants, cannibals,
enchantresses, with its bag of winds, which is still furnished by the town-witch to the outgoing
sailor in some countries, if report be true. In fact, a little delving among the people, who
are the great depositories of folk-lore, would probably find some of the stories of the Odyssey
still alive, if not in their completeness, at least some shreds or floating gossamers thereof.
Indestructible is the genuine tale when once made and accepted by the people, being of their
very essence; it is also the primordial material of which all true poetry is produced, it is
nature's Parian marble of which the poetic temple of Greece is built, specially this Homeric
temple.

5. At this point we begin to see just what is the function of Homer who has inherited a vast
mass of poetic material. He is its shaper, organizer, transformer; chiefly, however, he is
the architect of the beautiful structure of song. He does not and cannot make the stone which
goes into his edifice, but he makes the edifice. His genius is architectonic; he has an idea
which he builds into harmonious measures. What the ages have furnished, he converts to his
own use, and orders into a poetic Whole.

The store of Fairy Tales in those four Books was unquestionably transmitted to him, but he
has jointed them into the Ulyssiad, and into the total Odyssey, of whose structure they form
the very heart. The question arises: Did Homer find those Tales already collected? Possibly
he did, to a certain extent; they seem to come together of themselves, making a marvelous romance
of the sea. Some story-telling Greek sailor may well have given him the thread of connection;
certainly they are sprung of nautical experience. But in whatever shape they may come to the
poet, we may be certain of one thing: his constructive spirit transformed them and put them
into their present place, where they fit to perfection, forming a most important stage in the
grand Return.

In the development of the folk-tale, we can in a general way mark three grades. (1) There is
first the story which sets forth the processes in nature, the clouds, the winds, the storms,
the sun and moon, the conflict of the elements. Such is mainly the mythical character of the
old Vedas. Many a trace of this ancient conception we can find in Homeric Fableland, which
has a strong elemental substrate in the wrath of Neptune, in the tempests, in the winds of
Æolus, in the Oxen of the Sun. Still the Odyssey has passed far beyond this phase of mythical
consciousness; it cannot be explained by resolving it back into mere nature-myths, which method
simply leaves out the vital fact, namely, that of development. (2) In the second stage of the
Fairy Tale the physical meaning begins to withdraw into the background, and an ethical element
becomes dominant; the outer conflicts of nature, if they be present, are taken to portray the
spirit's struggle, in which a supreme moral order of some kind is brought to light. Here we
may well place Grimm's collection of folk-tales in many ways an epoch-making book. In those
simple stories of the people we observe the good and the bad marked off distinctly and engaged
in some kind of a wrestle, which shows at last the supremacy of the good. Not in every case
perhaps, but such is the tendency. But these Tales of Grimm, though collected, are in no sense
united; the architect never appeared, though they are the material of a great Teutonic epos;
they are the stones of the edifice, not the edifice itself by any means. (3) Out of this second
stage easily rises the third, the poet being given; whereof the best example is just those
four Books of the Odyssey. Now the folk-tale stands not alone, in widowed solitariness, but
is made to take its place in the great national, or perchance universal temple of song.

We may say, therefore, that Homer not only gathered these Tales but organized them into a Whole,
so that they no longer fall asunder into separate narratives, but they are deftly interwoven
and form a great cycle of experience. No segment of this cycle can be taken away without breaking
the totality. Moreover the entire series is but an organic part of the Odyssey.

It is now manifest that those who resolve these Tales into a disconnected bead-roll have really
fallen back into the second stage before mentioned; they have undone the work of Homer. If
these four Books be simply a string of stories without an inner movement from one to the other,
or without any organic connection with the rest of the poem, the entire poetic temple is but
a pile of stones and no edifice. And this is what Wolf and his disciples make out of Homer.
In one way or other they tear asunder the structure and transform it backwards in a collection,
allowing it hardly as much unity as may be found in the Canterbury Tales of Chaucer. A school
more recent than that of Wolf, the Comparative Philologists, have gone still further backwards,
and have reduced Homer to the first stage, to a nature-myth. The merit of both schools is that
they have called attention to Homer's primitive materials; they have rendered impossible the
idea that Homer created the Greek Gods or his mythology, or even his little stories. The defect
of these schools is that they fail to see the architectonic Homer, the poet who builds the
crude materials furnished by his people into an enduring structure of the noblest art. They
recognize in the edifice the stone and also the stone-cutter, but no master-builder.

Homer, therefore, is not merely the editor, collector, redactor; he is not a Grimm, gathering
his tales from the mouths of the people with a scientific accuracy. He gathered them, doubtless,
but he transfigured them into an image reflecting the experience of a human soul. Our age is
indeed scientific, it is collecting the folk-songs and the folk-tales from every quarter of
the globe, and stringing them on a thread, like so many beads, not being able to transmute
them into poetry. Wolf heralded the coming time by starting to reconvert Homer into his primitive
materials, by making him scientific and not poetic, at least not architectonic. Still we may
be permitted to hope that these vast collections of the world's folk-lore will yet be transmuted
by some new Homer into a world-poem.

6. The careful reader will also weigh the fact that Ulysses is now the story-teller himself.
The entire series of adventures in Fableland is put into his mouth by the poet. Herein, we
note a striking difference from the previous Book, the ninth, in which Demodocus is the singer.
What is the ground of such a marked transition? Demodocus has as his theme the war at Troy
with its lays of heroes, and its famous deeds; he celebrates the period portrayed in the Iliad;
his field is the Heroic Epos, or the songs of which it is composed. But he cannot sing of the
world outside of the Greco-Trojan consciousness, he cannot reach beyond the Olympian order
into the new set of deities of Fableland. Ulysses, however, has transcended the Trojan epoch,
has, in fact, reacted against Hellenic life and institutions, though he longs to get back to
them, out of his alienated condition. This internal phase Demodocus does not know, it manifestly
lies beyond his art. He does not sing of the Return at all, though Phemius, the Ithacan bard,
did in the First Book. A new strain is this, requiring a new singer, namely the man who has
had the wonderful experience himself.

The result is, another art-form has to be employed, the Fairy Tale, of which we have already
spoken. The individual now turns inward and narrates his marvelous adventures in the region
of spirit, his wrestlings there, his doubts, his defeats and escapes. For Fableland is not
actual like Hellas, not even like Phæacia; it is a creation of the mind in order to express
mind, and its shapes have to be removed from sensuous reality to fulfill the law of their being.
Such is plainly Homer's procedure. Once before he sped off into Fairyland, toward Egypt and
the East, leaving Hellas and Troy behind, quite as Ulysses here does. It was the story of Menelaus
in the Fourth Book, who also found Proteus and Eidothea, a new order of deities, though Olympus
and Zeus lay in the distant background. Moreover, Proteus and Eidothea represent the two sides,
the supersensible and the sensible, the latter of which must be transcended and the former
grasped, ere return be possible.

Nestor also tells his own experience in the Third Book, but he keeps inside of Hellas and under
the direct control of the Greek Gods. Hence no Faery Realm rises in his narrative, he needs
none for self-expression. But Menelaus and Ulysses, wandering far over the Greek border, reach
a new world, and require a new art-form for their adequate utterance. Especially is this the
case with Ulysses, who has had a much larger and deeper experience than Menelaus, and who thus
stands in strong contrast with Nestor, the old man of faith with his devotion to the old order,
who has no devious return from Troy, and continues to live in immediate unquestioning harmony
with the Olympians. There is no room in Pylos for a Circe or a Polyphemus.

Ulysses, therefore, having reached the court of Phæacia, takes a calm retrospect of the past,
and recounts the same to the people there; he comes to know himself, and he uses art for self-expression,
not for the praise of the external deed of war; his inner life is the theme. In other words,
he has become self-conscious in Phæacia, he knows his own processes, and shows that he knows
them. As already pointed out, this internal movement of his spirit is the process of the negative,
he has turned denier of the old institutional order of Greece, and he has to work through into
a positive world again, which he now sees before himself in Phæacia.

To be sure, the self-consciousness to which he has attained is not expressed in the language
of philosophy, but in poetry, in a transcendental Fairyland. There is as yet no Greek language
of philosophy; a long development will bring it forth however; Aristotle will deracinate the
last image of Homer, and leave the Greek tongue supersensible.

7. The fact that Ulysses must tell his own story is deeply coupled with the following characteristic:
these four Books of Fableland are essentially a confession. From beginning to end we observe
it to be an account of shortcomings and their results; we find the acknowledgment of error
in the very statement of the transaction. He confesses to Alcinous and the Phæacians his negative
attitude to the State and the consequences thereof; he confesses to Arete in what way he has
violated her institution. Here lies the necessity: this confession is absolutely needful to
his soul to free it of its negative past. He has become conscious of his condition, and utters
his confession to these people who are the opposite of it, and thus gets rid of his limitation.
The psychologic ground of his telling his own story is that he must.

To be sure, this is all done in a mythical form, which is somewhat alien to our method of making
a confession. Then Homer does not moralize by the way, he does not usually approve or condemn;
he simply states the deed and its consequences. His procedure is objective, truly artistic,
letting the thing speak for itself. The modern reader, however, likes to have moral observations
interspersed, which will stir up his sentiments, and save him the trouble of thinking the matter
out for himself.

Yet Ulysses, on the other hand, is always striving to reach out of his error, to transcend
his limitation. His mistake flings him to the earth, but he gets up again and marches forward.
Thus he asserts his own infinite worth; he is certain to reach home at last and accomplish
the grand Return.

But he does not bring back his companions. These often seem to be lower unheroic phases of
human nature, which the hero must throw off in the course of his development. In general, they
may be considered to be in him, a part of himself, yet they are real persons too. This rule,
however, will not always apply. Still his companions are lost, having "perished by their own
folly," while he is saved; the wise man is to live, the unwise to pass away.

The pivotal sin committed by Ulysses in Fableland is against Neptune, who is angry because
Ulysses put out the eye of his son Polyphemus. So the God, after the affair of the Oxen of
the Sun, becomes the grand obstacle to the Return, and helps to keep the hero with Calypso.
Such is the mythical statement in which three conceptions seem to blend. (1) Neptune is the
purely physical obstacle of the sea, very great in those early days. (2) Nature has her law,
and if it be not observed, the penalty follows, when she may be said to be mythically angry.
If a man jump down from a high precipice, he violates a law of nature, gravitation, and she
executes him on the spot, it may be; she is always angry and quick to punish in such cases;
but he may climb down the height and escape. In like manner a man, undertaking to swim across
the sea, encounters the wrath of Neptune; but he may construct a ship, and make the voyage.
(3) Finally there is the ethical violation: we shall see in the narrative, how Ulysses, after
appealing to humanity, becomes himself inhuman and a savage toward Polyphemus, who then curses
him and invokes father Neptune with effect. So the God visits upon Ulysses the punishment for
his ethical offense, which is the main one after all. In this way Fableland through the story
of Polyphemus contains a leading motive of the Ulyssiad, and thereby of the whole Odyssey,
and Ulysses is seen to be detained really by his own deed.

8. The general structure of these four Books is simple enough. They form a series of adventures,
with three to a Book. Though the connection seems slight on the surface, there are inner threads
which bind intimately together the separate adventures; one of the points in any true interpretation
is to raise these threads to light. The general movement of the whole may be regarded as threefold:
the sensible world (two Books), the supersensible Hades (one Book), the sensible world a second
time (one Book). Very significant are these changes, but it is hardly worth while to forecast
them here; they must be studied in detail first, then a retrospect can be given, as the contents
of the four Books will be present in the reader's mind. We may now say, however, that this
sweep from the sensible into the supersensible, and back again to the sensible, has in it the
meaning of a soul's experience, and that the second sensible realm here mentioned is very different
from the first.

The central fact of Fableland is, accordingly, that the man must get beyond the realm of the
senses, and hold communion with pure spirit, with the prophet Tiresias, and then come back
to the real world, bringing the wisdom gained beyond, ere he can complete the cycle of the
grand Return.

BOOK NINTH.

Ulysses is now called for by Alcinous, and he is to be the singer. At first he naturally pays
a compliment to his predecessor Demodocus: "A pleasant thing to hear a bard such as this,"
with a voice like unto that of the Gods. Then he gives a delicate touch of commendation to
the whole people "sitting in a row and listening to the singer" who is chanting the famous
deeds of the aforetime. But when Ulysses praises the tables laden with bread and meat, and
the cupbearer filling the wine-cups of the guests, saying, "This seems to me the best thing,"
strong opposition has been aroused, shown even in antiquity by the sharp protest of Plato and
Lucian. Still this Phæacian enjoyment is innocent enough; not ascetic is the trait, yet not
sensual; to-day good people usually eat and drink without the song of bard or other spiritual
entertainment accompanying the material one of gustation.

Now comes the change, Ulysses is to give a song, he is to sing his own deeds, the story of
his trials, "which will wake fresh sorrow in me." Clearly this will be a different song from
the preceding one of Demodocus; not now an heroic tale of Troy, but an account of the Return
therefrom; a tale in which endurance is the theme rather than action. The hero is more the
sufferer than the doer; he is to meet the hostile blows of Fate and to master it by his ability
to bear as well as by his ability to act. A new poetic form will gradually rise out of the
theme and in harmony with the same; the present movement runs counter to the Trojan story both
in space and in spirit.

The first act of Ulysses in this novel procedure is to be duly noted: he declares who he is,
gives his father's name and utters a hint of his own character. Very great surprise must the
announcement have created among those Phæacians--a veritable sensation, as we say in these
times; for Ulysses had been the real hero of the songs of Demodocus just sung; behold, that
hero himself is present and has been listening all the while. The dramatic disguise, in which
the interest of the hearer has centered hitherto, is thrown off, the concealed man shows himself.

Still deeper must we look into this act of self-revelation. "I am Ulysses," says the bard now,
proposing to sing of Ulysses. I am myself, I know what I have done and I am the man to tell
it. Really here is a statement of self-consciousness; the singer is no longer a Demodocus singing
of another man, of Ulysses, at Troy, but it is Ulysses himself, now singing of himself, of
his profoundest experiences, which none other but he can tell. His internal life opens, not
that active heroic one; the trials of his spirit are the theme, therewith must follow a new
manner of utterance, a poetic form which can express what is within and still remain in the
domain of the imagination. A self-conscious art we must now be prepared for, which seeks to
express just the self-consciousness of the poet going through his inner experiences, with the
counterstroke from the outer world.

What new art-form, then, will Homer, the grand constructive poet, who seizes every object necessary
for his temple of song, assign to Ulysses singing of himself? The Fairy Tale is taken with
its strange supernatural shapes, which have no reality, and hence can only have an ideal meaning;
we are ushered into the realm of the physically impossible, where we have to see the spiritually
actual, if we see anything. Polyphemus is not a man, not an animal, not a direct product of
nature; he is a creature of the mind made by the mind in order to express mind. Undoubtedly
he has external shape, but that shape is meaningless till we catch the spirit creating him.
The Fairy Tale removes the vision from an outer sensuous world, and compels an internal vision,
which looks into the soul of things and there beholds the soul.

The Fairy Tale existed long before Homer, it is a genuine product of the people. The stories
which here follow have been traced among the remotest races; they spring up of themselves out
of the popular heart and imagination. Homer picks them up and puts them into their true place
in his grand edifice, polishing, transforming them, by no means creating them; certainly he
never created this art-form. His merit is that he saw where they belong and what phase of human
experience they express; to this merit must be added his special power, that of poetic transfiguration.
Not simply a redactor or putter together externally of odd scraps, but the true architect of
the totality; thus he comes before us on the present and on all other occasions.

Ulysses, having told us who he is, proceeds to inform us of a second important fact: his soul's
strongest aspiration. He longs to return to home and country. Ithaca, a small, rocky island,
is the sweetest spot on earth to him; Circe and then Calypso tried to detain him, each wishing
to keep him as husband; "but they could not shake the purpose of my heart." One thinks that
he must, while saying this, have cast a sly glance at Arete, for whose approval it must have
been intended, for she was no friend of Circe and Calypso.

It is a curious fact that Homer, in this short description, makes two mistakes in reference
to the topography of Ithaca. The island can hardly be called low as here stated, nor does it
lie westward of Cephallenia, but northeastward. A reasonable inference is that Homer was not
an Ithacan, and did not know the island very well, though he may have seen it in a passing
visit. Anaximander with his first map comes after Homer several hundred years.

The present Book has three plainly marked portions. First comes the wanton attack on the Ciconians,
which connects immediately with the Trojan experience of Ulysses. Second is the country of
the Lotus-eaters, to which he and his companions are driven by wind and storm. Third is the
Land of the Cyclops, especially of Polyphemus, with whom he has his chief adventures. The first
two portions are quite brief, are in fact introductory to the third, which takes up more than
four-fifths of the Book, and is the Fairy Tale proper. We may observe the gradual transition:
the Ciconians are a real people in geography and history; the Lotus-eaters are getting mythical,
are but half-way historical; the Cyclops belong wholly to Fableland. Thus there is a movement
out of the Trojan background of reality into the Fairy World.

Having marked the dividing lines, the next thing will be to find the connecting links between
these three portions. They are not thrown together haphazard or externally joined into one
Book; they have an internal thought which unifies them and which must be brought to light.
The poet sees in images which are separate, but the thinker must unite these images by their
inner necessity, and thus justify anew the poet.

I.

The first sentence strikes the leading thought: "The wind, bearing me from Troy, brought me
to the Ciconians." Troy is the starting-point, the background out of which everything moves.
After the fall of the city Nestor gives an account of the disputes of the Greek leaders and
their separation (Book III. l. 134 et seq.); Ulysses is driven alone with his contingent across
the sea toward Thrace, where he finds a city in peace, though it had been an ally of Troy.
"I sacked the city, I destroyed its people;" he treated them as he did the Trojans, "taking
as booty their wives and property." Such is the spirit begotten of that ten years' war in the
character of Ulysses, a spirit of violence and rapine, totally unfitted for a civilized life,
at bottom negative to Family and State. This is the spiritual starting-point from which he
is to return to home and country through a long, long, but very needful discipline.

He is well aware that he has done something for which vengeance awaits him, so he urges his
companions to flee at once. But they would not obey, they stayed there "drinking much wine
and slaughtering sheep and oxen along the sea-shore." Revel and feasting follow, till the Ciconians
rouse the outlying neighbors and drive the Greeks to the ships, with the loss of six companions
for each ship. Such is the first incident after the Trojan War, showing clearly the destructive
phase thereof, which has been drilled into the character by so long a period of bloodshed.

This is not yet Fairyland, but a real people and a real conflict. The Ciconians in the later
historic time of Herodotus still dwelt in Thrace. Grotius in his famous book On the Rights
of Peace and War cites the present instance as a violation of international justice. The grand
positive ground of attacking Troy is not found here; there was no Helen detained in wrongful
captivity. The sack of Ismarus pictures the evil results which spring from all war, even the
most just. Again we must affirm that this deed of wrongful violence is the start toward the
great Return, and hints what has to be overcome internally by the journey through Fairyland.

Later we find a fact, not here mentioned, pertaining to the sack of the city of the Ciconians.
Ulysses had saved Maron, the priest of Apollo, who in gratitude gave him the strong wine with
which he overcame Polyphemus in the cave. His merciful deed thus helped him conquer the monster
of nature. But in general it is plain that Ulysses, though desiring to get back to an institutional
life, is not ready by any means for such a step; he is in reality hostile to the very essence
of institutional life. He is too much like the suitors now to be their punisher.

All put to sea again, to be tossed on that unruly element, with their little vessels exposed
to wind and wave. "They call thrice by name each one of their dead companions" ere they set
out; the meaning of this invocation has been much discussed, but it probably rests upon the
belief that they could thus call the souls of the deceased to go along with them to home and
country. The fact that just six were lost from each ship was made the ground of an assault
upon Homer in antiquity by Zoilus, famed as the Homeromastix, or Homer's trouncer.

The great sea with its tempests is now before them, heaving and tossing; after the attack upon
the Ciconians we can well imagine that this storm has its inner counterpart in the soul of
Ulysses. Does he not show within himself a deep scission--between his desire to return and
his deed? At any rate he is borne forward; when he sought to round Maleia, the southern point
of Greece (now Cape St. Angelo), and sail home to Ithaca, he was carried out to sea by the
winds, beyond the Island Cythera, across the main toward the coast of Africa. Thus he is swept
outside the boundaries of Hellas proper into a region dimly known, half-mythical; he cannot
make the sharp turn at Maleia, inside the Greek world; he must go beyond it and there reach
his final experience. Not simply physical is this description, else it would be a mere statement
in geography; it is also spiritual and hence rises into poetry.

II.

Next is the land of the Lotus-eaters, where Ulysses and his companions arrive, after being
driven helplessly "across the fishy deep" for nine days (this is a favorite number in Homer)
by the hostile winds. The Lotus-eaters, "whose food is flowers" use no violence, but reach
to the new-comers their plant, the lotus, to satisfy hunger. Whoever has once tasted of that
pleasant food, straightway forgets home and the Return, and wishes to live always among the
Lotus-eaters. The will is broken, all activity is sapped; the land of idlers it is, relaxed
in a sensuous dream life, in which there is a complete collapse of volition.

Now the point is to connect this country with the Ciconians, or rather to see this internal
condition evolving itself out of the preceding one. For the line of conjunction must be within,
of the spirit; physically the two countries are far enough apart. In the first case, we have
noted a state of external violence, which really means a destroying of the will. The Greeks
assailed a quiet people, assailed its will; then they were beaten and driven off, they had
their negative deed served up to themselves. Now what? There follows an internal collapse of
the will, a logical result of their own conduct, which is hinted by their being drifted about
on the seas, apparently quite helpless. No wonder that, when they touched land again, and obtained
some food, they desired to stay there, and eat of the lotus. Yet it is the consequence of their
own act; that wanton destruction of the Ciconian will is at bottom the destruction of their
own will; they are really assailing their own principle--a fact which is to be brought home
to them by a long and bitter experience.

But there is one man among them, who, though not guiltless by any means, felt the nature of
the Ciconian act, and who has still some volition left in the right direction. "By force I
led back to the ship those who had tasted of the lotus, and bound them beneath the oar-benches."
The rest of the companions were ordered aboard, they obeyed; off they sail again on the hoary
deep--whitherward? Thus Ulysses shows himself the man of will among the will-less, and solves
his part of the problem among the Lotus-eaters, setting out for the new Unknown.

This people probably lived on the coast of Lybia according to Homer's conception, though the
land is outside the clear Greek geographical horizon, floating mistily somewhere on its borders,
half real, half fabulous, on the way to Fairyland. We enter more distinctly the inner realm
of the spirit, as the outer realm of reality becomes less distinct and demonstrable. The Ciconians
were an actual people, the conflict with them also actual, quite the Trojan conflict; but the
Lotus-eaters form the transition to the Wonderland of the Odyssey.

As regards the lotus, several plants were called by that name; one is mentioned in a previous
Book of the Odyssey (IV. 603) which was probably a kind of clover growing in the damp lowlands
of Greece and Asia Minor, and utilized for grazing. Another sort was a species of lily which
grew in the valley of the Nile. But the lotus of the present passage is generally considered
to be the fruit of a shrub which yields a reddish berry of the size of a common olive, having
somewhat the taste of a fig. This fruit is still highly esteemed in Tripolis, Tunis and Algiers;
from the last named country it has passed over to France, and is often hawked about the streets
of Paris under the name of Jujube, where the passing traveler will purchase a sample, and eat
of the same, testing the truth of Homer's description, but probably not losing thereby his
desire for home and country.

The Lotus-eaters have had a famous history; they have caught the fancy of poets and literary
men who have sought in various ways to reproduce and embellish them. Among English-speaking
peoples the poem of Tennyson on this subject is a prime favorite. But in Homer the Lotus-eaters
are not an isolated fact, they are a link in the chain of a grand development; this inner connecting
thought is the true thing to grasp.

Let us, then, penetrate the heart of the next movement of Ulysses. The Lotus-eater gave up
family and country; "chewing the lotus, he forgot the return." His will vanished into a sensuous
oblivion; he was indifferent, and this indifference was a passive destruction of the Greek
world to which he was returning. But now in due order the active destroyer of that world appears;
behold the Cyclops, the wild man of nature, truly a monster to the Greek institutional sense,
being without domestic and civil order. Thus we mark the inner transition: the active principle
of that which was a passive Lotus-eater is the Cyclops, a Polyphemus. The Trojan negative result,
so deeply lodged in the soul of Ulysses and his companions, cannot remain mere indifference
or forgetfulness; it must proceed to action, to virulent destructive action, which is now to
be bodied forth in a fabulous shape. Only a few of the weakest companions of Ulysses were ready
to become Lotus-eaters, and they were easily thrust under the oar-benches and carried away.
Here there is a fresh conflict, altogether the main one of the present Book.

III.

If then we have seized the matter aright, we have reached a shape in Fairyland, which represents
what is hostile, actively hostile, to the Greek institutional world, State, Family, Society.
Ulysses stands in a double relation to the present condition of things. The Cyclops is really
a picture of him in his negative character, a product of his destructive Trojan spirit, yet
he is just the man who must put down the Cyclops, he must master his own negation or perish.
Ulysses sees the natural man, or rather, he sees himself with all culture taken away, with
all institutional life eliminated from his existence.

He may well be frightened at the monster, who is very real, though a dweller in Fairyland.
Nor should we forget that the Cyclops also undergoes a change, he too is in the process and
shows something like development under the severe tuition of Ulysses.

As already said, the present portion is altogether the longest in the Book, it is essentially
the entire Book. The other two portions were hardly more than a short introduction and a brief
transitional stage; now comes the full and highly elaborated tale, in which both the land and
its inhabitants are fabulous, supernatural. There are two distinct divisions treating of the
Cyclops: the first describes their race in general, the second gives a description of the particular
grand Cyclops, Polyphemus, in his conflict with Ulysses.

I. This time there is no tempest, such as arose after leaving the Ciconians, in order to reach
the land of the Cyclops; that collapse of the will seems to have pictured itself in the quiet
deep. But who are the Cyclops? A race "without law, addicted to violent deeds;" they have no
agriculture, "they plant not, neither do they plow;" they get their products, "trusting to
the Gods," that is, trusting to nature, since the Cyclops have small regard for the higher
Gods, as we shall soon see. Another mere formula this, showing that the Homeric deity was getting
crystallized even for Homer. "They hold no councils" in common, are not associated together,
but "they dwell in vaulted caves on mountain heights," such as the famous Corycian cavern which
is near the top of a mountain on Parnassus. There "each man rules his wives and children,"
evidently a herding polygamous condition of the family; "nor do they (the Cyclops) care for
one another." Still further, "they have no ships with crimson prows," no navigation, no commerce
which seeks "the cities of men" and binds them together in the bond of society and humanity.
Yet there is an excellent harbor and a good soil, "with copious showers from Zeus;" nature
has surely done her part, and is calling loudly for the enterprising colonist to come and plant
here his civilized order. This passage must have stirred the Greek emigrant to leave his stony
Hellas and seek in the West, a new home; it suggests the great Hellenic movement for the colonization
of Italy and Sicily from the 6th to the 9th century B.C. The poet has plainly been with the
frontiersman, and seen the latter's giants.

The main thing to be noticed in the present account is the extraordinary number of negatives.
No laws, no assemblies, no association; no plows, no ships, no intercourse with other cities;
the whole civilized life of man is negated, and man himself is thrown back into a state of
nature. It is worth while to search for the purpose of this negative procedure on the part
of the poet. He might have given a positive description of nature, telling what it is, and
telling what the Cyclops is, not emphasizing so much what he is not. But thus the meaning would
not come out so plainly; the Cyclops is just the negation of the whole civilized world of Greece,
which fact must be expressly imaged in the very words used in the poem. He is not so much a
simple being of nature as a being antithetic to society.

At this point we can trace his connection with the great Trojan experience, which, as already
set forth, has begotten a negative tendency in its participators. The war at Troy, like all
war long-continued, has bred men to be anti-social; they have to destroy State, Family, Commerce,
Agriculture, till destruction becomes habit, yea principle, and takes possession of their intellect.
The Cyclops was generated at Ilium, and is a colossal phantasm of the spirit which prompted
the attack on the Ciconians.

It should be stated here that the Cyclops of Homer are different from those of Hesiod and of
other mythographers, inasmuch as the latter were represented as the demons who forged the thunderbolts
of Zeus, and were connected with the volcanic agencies chiefly in Sicily and Italy. Mount Ætna
belching forth its lava streams may have suggested to the Greek imagination the sick giant
Polyphemus in its caverns, drunk on the red destructive wine of Ulysses.

First is a small island, "stretching outside the harbor" of the land of the Cyclops, woody,
full of wild goats; there the ships of Ulysses drew to the shore. It was bare of human dwellers,
the Cyclops had no boats to reach it; a good place for stopping, therefore, quite out of reach
of the savages. Nor is the fountain forgotten, "sparkling water flowing from a hollow rock
down to the harbor"--an adjunct still necessary to every Greek village or encampment. "Some
God led us through the dark night" without our seeing the island till the boats struck it--surely
a providential intervention on our behalf.

Leaving behind the other ships at this point, Ulysses takes only his own and its crew, and
goes forth to "test these people, whether just or unjust, hospitable or godless." He cannot
rest in ignorance, he must have the experience and know the unknown. He soon sees "a cave high
up the mountain, not far from the sea, overarched with laurel shrubs;" he observes also "an
enclosure, made of stones set in the earth;" these stones are not hewn (as some translators
say), since the so-called Cyclopean walls so common in Greece were not built by this kind of
Cyclops. In the enclosure were resting "many herds of sheep and goats"--just such a scene as
can be witnessed in the rural parts of Greece to-day. This is the environment of "the man-monster,"
who is now to be the theme of song.

II. Polyphemus is a Cyclops but he has characteristics of his own. He has no family in his
cave, he lives wholly for himself apparently; he seems to be the largest of his race, "like
no man who lives by bread;" he towers alone "like the peak of a high mountain shaggy with woods;"
apart from others "he plans his unjust deeds." A portentous shape with but a single eye in
his head, a cave-dweller similar to the primitive man; he has too an evil disposition in his
huge bulk.

This is the being with whom Ulysses is now to engage in conflict, which becomes highly dramatic.
The conquest of the man of Nature by the man of Intelligence--such is the theme through its
various fluctuations. This man of Nature, however, we are always to consider from his negative
side, as hostile to a civilized order; so the poet has carefully represented him. He is to
be put down; yet even Polyphemus has his right, he is brought to a gleam of self-knowledge,
and Ulysses has to pay the penalty of his deed, which has also its curse. A very deep current
runs through the poem in this part, which we shall divide into five different scenes, hoping
thus to make its movement and thought somewhat more distinct.

1. Ulysses, taking twelve of his bravest companions from his ship, not forgetting a goatskin
of wonderful wine, for he had a presentiment that he would meet a huge wild man, who is wont
to succumb readily to civilized drink, enters the cave while Polyphemus is absent. A vivid
picture of that primitive dairy with its cheese, milk, curds; the men fell to and helped themselves,
as was natural. Then the companions wished to depart at once, taking what quantity of cheese
they could carry, but Ulysses refused, he must "see the Cyclops and test his hospitality."
Just the opposite was the case in the land of the Ciconians; there Ulysses wished to flee but
his companions would not. Why this difference? He must know Polyphemus, must see the giant
and subordinate him; that is just his supreme necessity now, he really can no more run away
from the monster than from himself. But that attack on the Ciconians was an unjust, violent
deed of which the penalty was sure to follow; this Ulysses knew and sought to escape. In the
present case, however, no wrong has been done as yet, and he must meet and solve his problem,
while his weaker companions would shun the trial.

Polyphemus returns with his herds in due time, and closes the mouth of the cave with a huge
rock, "which not two and twenty wains could move from the threshold." Soon by the light of
his fire he sees the lurking strangers and asks, "Who are you?" Ulysses replies, stating that
they are returning from Troy, but have been driven out of their way by adverse winds; then
he makes his human and religious appeal: We come as suppliants, receive us; "revere the Gods,"
specially Zeus the protector of suppliants. But the Cyclops scoffs at Zeus and the rest of
the Gods: "we are their betters." Thus is witnessed in the monster the denial of the Greek
religion, and an atheistic turn of mind.

Next follows in logical sequence his supreme negative act, he is a man-eater. "He seized two
of my companions and hurled them against the ground as if they were dogs, then he devoured
them piecemeal, swallowing all--entrails and flesh and marrowy bones." Surely Ulysses is getting
some experience on the line of that Trojan deed.

Now we catch the entire sweep of this particular Cyclops. He has shown himself as the representative
of three mighty negations: of civilized life, of religious life, and of human life. He destroys
man, feeds on him; so negation, war, revolution, must do in the end. The horrid phantasm is
the true image of the destroyer of the race. Nor does he belong to the old Greek world and
to the Trojan time only; he is among us, and he can be translated into modern terms quite familiar.
Polyphemus is an anarchist, an atheist, and a cannibal; the ancient poet wraps the three together
in one mighty monstrosity. In the morning the Cyclops devoured two more companions for his
breakfast, then drove his flocks afield, leaving the rest of the strangers shut up in the cave
with the big stone in the opening.

During the day the "man of many shifts" has an opportunity for reflection in that dark recess.
He dares not kill the giant outright, "with my sharp sword stubbing him where the midriff holds
the liver," for how could they then get out? No, the man of nature must be saved and utilized;
with all his might he is to be overborne by the man of intelligence, and made to remove the
big stone.

2. The plan of Ulysses with its successful execution is the subject of the next phase of the
conflict. By this plan three things must be done in order to counteract the giant and to negative
his power. He must be deprived of physical vision, which becomes the more easily possible from
the fact that he has but one eye; if he had two eyes like the ordinary man, he could still
see though one be put out. That this purpose be accomplished, he must somehow be shorn of his
physical strength; finally any resistance which might come from the rest of the Cyclops outside
must be rendered nugatory. Such are the three chief points of the impending problem, which
Ulysses has to meet and does meet with astonishing skill and foresight; the Cyclops is blinded,
is made helpless by drink, and is befooled by a pun.

Ulysses burns out the eye of the monster with the charred end of a stick of olive wood, which
he prepares beforehand; huge Round-eye (the meaning of the word Cyclops) has no eye now. Ulysses
by means of that miraculous wine, product of culture, makes the giant drunk, who thus loses
his physical superiority. The Ithacan evidently knew, as well as the American, the power of
fire-water over the wild man; that the wine had some strength, is shown by the fact that one
cup of it had to be diluted with twenty measures of water, when taken by ordinary mortals.
Not without significance does the exhilarated Cyclops laud this civilized wine in contrast
to that of the wild grapes of his own land.

But the third scheme of Ulysses is the most subtle of all, and touches the heart of the whole
problem, though it be merely a pun. He calls himself Nobody to Polyphemus, who, without sight
or insight, is the victim of a word. For a complete man must have not only a double sight from
his eyes, but a double insight from his mind, seeing before and after in the latter case especially.
The result is when the other Cyclops, roused by the cries of Polyphemus, ask him from outside
the cave: What is the matter? he answers, Nobody is killing me. Whereat off they go, dropping
a word or two of cold advice, or perchance of sarcastic humor.

We should, however, reach down to the essence of what appears on the surface as a mere trick
of speech. It may seem far-fetched to say, but it is none the less the actual fact, that Ulysses
is a Nobody, and a very active one to Polyphemus. That is, he has shown himself the negative
power which overwhelms the giant, who is now himself quite reduced to a nobody by Mr. Nobody.
Or, in abstract terms, Ulysses has negated the negation and has here suggested the subtle work
of the process in doing so. Has he not negatived Polyphemus, who was himself a negative, so
carefully and fully defined by the poet at the start?

Thus we come upon the deepest pun ever made, or possible to be made, a literary form which
the greatest geniuses have been fond of sporting with; we can find puns in Dante, Goethe, and
notably in Shakespeare. The pun of Ulysses rests upon the duplicity inherent in the negative;
no-man is the man, especially to Polyphemus, whose brain cannot span the two sides of the punning
idea, who is not two-eyed but one-eyed by nature, and this one eye is soon put out by the man
with two eyes. Such is the earliest instance of what may be called the Play of the Negative,
which is still subtly ensconced in the spoken and written word, and winds in an elusive game
of hide-and-seek through all Literature. Many men, both writers and readers, are its victims,
like Polyphemus.

And all these floating metaphysical gossamers are found in Homer! Yes, but not in a metaphysical
form; Homer's organ is poetic, he lived in the age ere philosophers had dawned. Still he too
had before him the problems of the soul and of the world. Nor would he have been a true Greek
unless he had grappled with this Play of the Negative, which had some marvelous fascination
for the Greek mind. It is the leaven working in the Sophists with their subtle rhetoric, in
Socrates with his negating elenchus, in Plato with his confounding dialectic. Homer, as the
prophet of his people, foreshadowing all forms of Greek spirit and of Greek literature, bring
to light repeatedly this Play of the Negative.

The modern German, in more respects than one the spiritual heir of the ancient Greek, has not
failed to give evidence of his birthright in the same direction. Kant's Critique, and Hegel's
Logic are the most desperate efforts to grasp this slippery, double-doing and double-thinking
Negative, infinitely elusive, verily the old Serpent. But the supreme attempt is the modern
poetic one, made by Goethe in his Faust poem, in which is embodied anew the mighty Negative,
who is now none other than the devil, Mephistopheles. Thus the last world-poet reaches across
the ages and touches elbows with the first world-poet in a common theme.

Thus Ulysses nullifies the Cyclops, inflicting three deprivations through his three means:
the charred stick takes away vision, the strong wine takes away strength, the ambiguous pun
prevents help. The pun also announces covertly to Polyphemus the nature of the power which
is undoing him, but he does not and cannot understand that. But the problem of Ulysses is not
at an end with simply nullifying the Cyclops; he and his companions are not yet outside of
the cave. Herewith we come to a new stage of process.

3. This is the escape, to which the strong giant must be made to contribute, he is skillfully
turned against himself. The great stone is removed by him from the mouth of the cave, but he
places himself there at the entrance, and no human being can pass. Still, the herds have to
go out to their pasture. Ulysses dexterously binds three large sheep together, fastens a companion
under the middle one, while he clings beneath a huge ram, and out they move together. But the
giant stops just this ram and talks to it, being his favorite of the flock. The man of nature
is again outwitted by the man of intelligence, allowing his enemy to slip through his very
fingers. The conversation of the blind Cyclops with the dumb animal is pathetic; his one solitary
friend apparently, the only creature he loved, is compelled to silent service against its master.
"Why art thou last to leave, who wast always first? Dost thou long to see the eye of thy ruler,
which has been put out by that vile wretch, Nobody?" So the Cyclops speaks, without seeing
or knowing, yet with a touch which excites sympathy for his misfortune.

The special characteristic of this scene is that Ulysses does not now destroy, but employs
Polyphemus and his property. Nature must be used by intelligence to overcome nature; the strength
of the giant must be directed to rolling away the big stone; his herds are taken to bring about
the escape of his foes, and he is turned into an instrument against himself. Thus he is no
longer negated as in the last scene, but utilized; having been subdued, he now must serve.

Ulysses and his companions are outside the cave, having gotten rid of those dark and fearful
limits which walled them in with a monster. Mind, thought has released them; soon they are
on their ship in a free element. But the end is not yet; even Polyphemus, the natural man,
must come to know who and what has subjected him, he too is in the grand discipline of the time.

4. Two things Ulysses is now to tell to the Cyclops in the distance. The first is the wrong
and the penalty thereof: "Amply have thy evil deeds been returned to thee," namely, his treatment
of men. "Zeus and the other Gods have punished thee," there is a divine order in the world,
which looks after the wrong-doer. Thus Polyphemus the anarchist, atheist, and cannibal gets
a short missionary sermon on justice, religion and humanity. But he does not receive it kindly,
he "hurls a fragment of a mountain peak," and almost strikes the ship. The line of danger is
not yet passed.

Still Ulysses must tell something else though his frightened companions try to dissuade him.
But he must, he cannot help it: "If any one ask thee, say it was Ulysses, the city-destroyer,
who put out thine eye." A great light this word brings to the poor blind Cyclops, almost the
light of self-consciousness. He recalls, he knows his conqueror, and therein begins to know
himself, to recognize his error. "Ah, woe is me! the ancient oracles about me are fulfilled!"
Of old there had been prophecies concerning his destiny, but he did not understand them, seemingly
did not regard them. How could he, with his bent toward the godless? The prophet Telemus had
foretold "that I would lose my sight at the hands of Ulysses." How shall we consider this prophecy?
A dim, far-off presentiment among the Cyclops themselves that they were to be subjected to
a higher influence; their limited, one-eyed vision was to vanish through a more universal,
two-eyed vision. Such a presentiment nature everywhere shows, a presentiment of the power beyond
her, of the spiritual. What else indeed is Gravitation? A longing, a seeking which even the
clod manifests in its fall earthward, a prophetic intimation; so the Cyclops, the natural man,
had his prophet whom he now begins rightly to recognize; truly he is getting religious, quite
different is his present utterance from his previous blasphemy: "we are better than the Gods."
Nay, he offers to intercede with his father Neptune, praying the God to give a sending of the
stranger over the sea. Moreover he recognizes his divine father as the only one who can heal
him in his present distress. Possibly the words are spoken to beguile, but Polyphemus here
offers to do his duty to the stranger on his shores, and he recognizes the Gods.

Manifestly we witness in this passage a striking development of the rude Cyclops under the
tough discipline of experience. He acknowledges first his mistake in regard to the prophecy:
"I expected to see a man tall and beautiful and of vast strength, not this petty worthless
weakling who has put out mine eye." A hero of visible might, a giant like himself, not a man
of invisible intelligence, he imagined he was to meet; great was his mistake. The conflict
between Brain and Brawn was settled long ago before Troy, and has been sung of in the preceding
Book. Here then is certainly a confession of his mistake, and, if his words are sincere, an
offer to undo his wrong.

5. At this point there is a change in Ulysses, his victory has begotten insolence, he becomes
a kind of Cyclops in his turn. Such is the demon ever lurking in success. Listen to his response
to the confession and supplication of his wretched victim: "Would that I were as sure of taking
thy life and sending thee down to Hades, as that the Earth-shaker shall never heal thine eye."
The implication is that the God cannot do it--an act of blasphemy which the God will not be
slow to avenge. But how true to human nature is this new turn in Ulysses, how profound! No
sooner has he escaped and experiences the feeling of triumph, than his humanity, nay his religion
vanishes, he sweeps over into his opposite and becomes his savage enemy. What follows? The
law must be read to him too, his own law; he will hear it from the mouth of Polyphemus, and
it is essentially this: As thou hast done to me, so shall it be done to thee.

Accordingly we have next the curse of the Cyclops denounced upon the head of the transgressor.
This curse is to be fulfilled to the letter, the poet has fully shown the ground of it, Ulysses
has really invoked it upon himself, it lies in his deed. Possibly Polyphemus, when he offered
to give the dues of hospitality and to send the guest home, was merely using the words of deception,
which he had just had the opportunity of learning, and was trying to get possession of his
enemy's body. Doubtless it was well for Ulysses to keep out of the giant's hands. But that
does not justify his speech, which was both cruel and blasphemous.

Hear then the curse of the Cyclops, which hints the great obstructing motive to the return
of Ulysses, and marks out the action of the poem; "Give Ulysses no return to his home; but
if he returns, may he arrive late and in evil plight, upon a foreign ship with loss of all
his companions, and may he find troubles in his house." Of course Neptune heard the prayer,
had to hear it, in the divine order of things. The curse lay inside of Ulysses, else it could
not have been fulfilled; he himself could drop from his humane and religious mood in adversity
and become a savage in prosperity. His chief misfortunes follow after this curse. But for the
present he escapes to Goat Island, though another portentous rock is hurled at him by the Cyclops.
There he sacrifices to the Highest God, Zeus, who, however, pays no heed--how is it possible?

Such is this far-reaching Fairy Tale, certainly one of the greatest and most comprehensive
ever written. It shows a movement, an evolution both of Polyphemus and Ulysses; this inner
unfolding indeed is the main thing to be grasped. It is worth the while to take a short retrospect
of the five leading points. (1) The completely negative character of the Cyclops as to institutions,
religion, and even the physical man. (2) This negative being is negated by the man of intelligence,
who puts out his eye, nullifies his strength by drink, and thwarts all help for him by a punning
stratagem. (3) He is made to help his enemies escape from his cave by the skill of Ulysses
who turns the force of nature against nature. (4) The Cyclops reaches self-knowledge through
Ulysses, who tells his wrong and its punishment, who also tells his own name: whereat the Cyclops
suddenly changes and makes a humane offer. (5) Ulysses changes the other way, becomes himself
a kind of Cyclops and receives the curse.

This curse will now follow Ulysses and drive him from island to island through Fableland, till
he gets back to Ithaca with much suffering and with all companions lost, where he will find
many troubles. In this manner the return of Ulysses becomes intertwined with Polyphemus and
this Fableland, which furnish an underlying motive for the third Part of the Odyssey (the last
12 Books). The curse here spoken is still working when Ulysses reaches home and finds the suitors
in possession. Verily his negative spirit lies deep; in cursing Polyphemus, he has cursed himself.

Thus the impartial poet shows both sides--the guilt as well as the good in Polyphemus and in
Ulysses. The man of nature has his right when he offers to transform his conduct, and it shows
that Ulysses still needs discipline when he scorns such an offer. Polyphemus too is to have
his chance of rising, for he certainly has within himself the possibility. Has not the poet
derived the noble Arete and Alcinous and institutional Phæacia from the savage Cyclops? But
Ulysses negatives Polyphemus just at the start upward. The character which he showed in sacking
the city of the Ciconians is in him still, he is not yet ready to return.

The Ninth Book has thus run through its three stages and has landed us in pure Fableland. These
three stages--the attack on the Ciconians, the Lotus-eaters, the adventure with the Cyclops--may
now be seen to be parts of one entire process, which we may call the purification of the spirit
from its own negative condition. The man, having become destructive-minded (oloophrn) must
be put under training by the Gods, and sent to battle with the monsters of Fableland.

So we advance to the next Book with the certainty that there is still some stern discipline
in store for the wandering Ulysses.

BOOK TENTH.

At the first glance we can observe a certain similarity between this Book and the last one.
There are in each three distinct portions or adventures, two very short and simple, and one
very long and intricate. Each Book culminates in a fabulous being with whom the Hero has a
wrestle for supremacy, and in both cases he comes out victorious. We are still in Wonderland,
we have to reach into the ideal realm in order to find out what these strange incidents mean.
The two central figures are Polyphemus and Circe, respectively, each of whom imparts the dominating
thought to the Book in which he or she appears.

The first thing we ask for is the connection, the inner thread which joins these Books together.
It was stated that Polyphemus was the negation of the institutional world, he was individualistic,
he belonged to neither Family nor State. No laws, no councils, no civil polity; he is a huge
man of violence, hostile specially to man's social life. Circe on the contrary, is the woman
hostile to woman's domestic world, the Family, first of all; she is the grand enchantress,
representing the power and seductiveness of the senses; she is the enemy of what we call morals.
To be sure, we shall find in her something more, whereof the full unfolding will be given hereafter.

Ulysses is the one who is to meet those negative forces and put them down. His companions give
him special trouble in the present Book, they seem to represent the weaker phases of man, possibly
of Ulysses himself. Already he has suppressed Polyphemus, or the institutional negation; now
he is to subordinate Circe or the moral negation. The latter is a woman because she must have
sensuous beauty and all the charm of passionate enticement; the former is a man because he
must show strength and violence rather than the allurement of pleasure.

Nor should we forget that these forms are in Ulysses himself, and were really generated out
of his Trojan life; that spirit of his, shown at the start by the attack on the Ciconians,
has all these phases in its process. He is traveling through an Inferno, seeing its entire
demonic brood, which he has begotten, and which he has to fight and subject. At the same time
these fantastic shapes are typical, and shadow forth the universal experience of man, belonging
to all countries and all ages.

As already stated, there are three different localities to which Ulysses is brought. Three
islands, bounded, yet in a boundless sea, through which he moves on his ships; such is the
outermost setting of nature, suggestive of much. No tempest occurs in this Book; the stress
is upon the three fixed places in the unfixed aqueous element.

I. First is the island where dwells Æolus with his Family; hither Ulysses comes after putting
down Polyphemus who was hostile to domestic life. In this spot the bag of winds is given into
the possession of the navigator, whose companions, however, release them, and he is driven
to the starting-point, with the winds at large. Æolus refuses to receive him the second time.

II. Next is the city of the Læstrigonians, where is a civil life, a State, to which Ulysses
can come after subjecting the Cyclops, who had no polity of the sort. But the State is verily
a giant, a cannibal to him now, with all the winds loose. Hence he has to flee for his life.
Whither now does he go?

III. Not to Penelope and Ithaca, but to Circe, and her isle. She is the form which next rises
before Ulysses, banished from the domestic world of Æolus, and fleeing from the civil life
of the Læstrigonians.

We shall try to bring the threads of connection to light, for it is our emphatic opinion that
these three islands with their shapes are spiritually bound and wound together. Still further,
they reach back and interlink with the forms of the previous Book, which furnish antecedent
stages of the grand total movement of Fairyland. Separated in image are these islands and their
inhabitants, but they have to be united in thought. Not a more accident is the sequence, but
a necessity, a strict evolution. The work here, according our best belief, is organic, and
the reader must not rest contented with his understanding of it, till he moves with the poet
from place to place by the interior path of the spirit.

I.

The first fact about the Æolian Isle is that it was afloat in the waters of the sea, as Delos
and other islands of antiquity were reported to be. Not stationary then; the king of it, Æolus,
has a name which indicates a changeable nature, veering about like the winds, of which he is
king. The second fact pertaining to this Isle is that a wall of brass encircles it not to be
broken through; "and the cliff runs up sheer from the sea." Manifestly two opposite ideas are
suggested in this description: the fixed and the movable; the island within itself is bound
fast, and cannot be driven asunder; yet it floats in the most unstable of elements, in the
sea and winds. Such is the physical environment, clearly mirroring the meaning. Something permanent
in the midst of all that is mutable we may expect to find here.

On the island dwell the King of the Winds and his wife, along with six blooming sons and daughters.
He gave his daughters to his sons for wives; a custom not elsewhere found in Homer outside
of the realm of the Gods; yet is claimed to have been a very ancient custom, which the Ptolomies
revived in Egypt. At any rate here is the picture of the Family in its patriarchal form, wholly
separated from other connections and set apart by itself, on the brass-bound precipitous island.
The Family is abstracted from the rest of the world and given a dwelling-place.

At this point we begin to catch a glimpse of the significance of the story. The Family is the
first power which seizes the emotions and passions and caprices of men (the winds of his soul)
and starts the taming of them; the marriage tie is fixed, is not for a day; thus the Family
makes itself permanent, and makes the human being stable through feeling and duty. None but
married people are here; very different will it be hereafter in the island of Circe. The king
of the winds is not only Æolus, but also his institution, the Family, rules here, for there
is no State to be governed. Not polygamy, but monogamy, as the great Homeric principle of domestic
life, do we witness--the mutual devotion of one man and one woman. Externally we found the
fixed and the floating; internally also we discover the fixed and the floating, or rather,
that principle which fixes the floating, and makes the world stable. Thus we see the reason
why Homer puts the Family upon the Isle of the Winds.

It is no wonder, therefore, that in such a place is held up before us a picture of happiness
and plenty. "All feast from day to day with endless change of meats;" why ask whence the viands
come? The inner peace provides them. Even the sound of flutes is heard round about, according
to one way of translating the passage; music attunes the everlasting festival. Not mere gratification
is this, but happiness, the outer again mirroring the inner; domestic harmony is the matter
set forth.

Hither Ulysses comes with his companions, "to the city and beautiful houses" of Æolus. A city
is here, but no civil life is introduced into the story. "A whole month the monarch entertained
me;" what was again the interest? "He asked me about Ilium," the eternal theme, which lies
always in the background of Fairyland as well as of Historic Hellas. The Trojan war and also
"the Return of the Greeks" were recounted, we may say, sung by Ulysses; the Iliad and the Odyssey,
delighted also those domestic Æolians. Was not Troy destroyed because of a wrong done to the
Greek Family? Finally Ulysses was gotten ready to be sent home by his host.

Æolus, the ruler of the winds, gives them into the might of Ulysses; he confines them in "a
bullock's bladder," which, tied by a silver chain, he places in the ship. It is manifest that
the sea, deprived of these windy powers, cannot hinder the passage. Again we behold the main
fact of the island: the unstable, uncertain, capricious, is held by the fixed, the permanent;
during his sojourn with Æolus, Ulysses has obtained an inner hold, an anchorage of the moral
kind, which he sorely needed. This was given him by his view of the Family, which was the real
security of the island. All the conditions of his return (but one) are placed in his hand,
tied up in a bag. "Only the west-wind was allowed to blow," which sent him homewards.

Still the supreme condition was not, could not be given by Æolus or by anybody else, could
not be tied up in a bag. The free man must be alert, he must watch, and win his own salvation;
his prime duty is to keep the bag tied, and therein to exercise his will. This is just what
he failed to do at the last moment. He went to sleep when in sight of Ithaca; his companions,
led by curiosity and avarice (two blasts of the soul) open the bag, expecting to find gold
and silver, and find the rushing winds. Of course all are driven back to the starting-point,
to the island, on which they soon land.

What will Ulysses do in such extremity? "Shall I drop into the sea and perish, or shall I still
endure and stay among the living?" Suicide will not solve his problem: "I remained and suffered."
Herein also we trace the stamp of the hero, whose special call it is to master fate.

So Ulysses tries again to get the bladder of winds from Æolus, confessing that it was equally
the fault of himself and his companions. But the opportunity is gone; the sum total of conditions,
all bagged and tied up, and put into his hands, presents itself only once. Moreover the sleep
of Ulysses, just at the nick of destiny, showed an internal weakness; he became careless, almost
insolent under such circumstances; he manifested a similar trait to that which led to the curse
of the Cyclops. Again he hears a malediction, now uttered by his former host: "Get thee out
of my island quickly, most guilty of men, hated by the Gods!" Thus Æolus regards the man before
him, and reinforces the curse of Polyphemus. But if Ulysses had to fall asleep by sheer fatigue
(which construction the passage hardly demands), then he did not look properly after his companions,
making them the sharers of his knowledge. A foolish question has been asked here and much discussed:
How did Ulysses know what his companions said during his sleep? Easily enough; but the answer
is not worth the candle.

Æolus, therefore, refuses to receive Ulysses and his companions a second time; they have fallen,
they must experience the full meaning of their conduct; they must go to Circe, and some of
them, at least, be changed into swine, till they know the nature of their deed. Æolus cannot
receive them, they have destroyed his gift; they would repeat their act, if he gave all into
their hands again, without the deeper penalty. The law thus is clear; they, having disregarded
the fixed control of appetite and passion, which the King of the Island imparts, are swept
back into brutishness.

Many have been the interpretations of this marvelous King and his children and his island.
The supporters of the physical theory of mythology have maintained that the twelve sons and
daughters are the twelve months of the year, six of summer and six of winter, while Æolus,
the father, is the Sun who produces them. Others regard Æolus as a mortal king, who, on account
of certain traits or certain deeds, was transformed into the fabled monarch of the winds. There
has been much dispute over the location of Æolia; the most of those who have searched for its
geographical site are in favor of one of the Lipari Islands, on the northern coast of Sicily.
Finally Virgil has somewhat transformed the legend and put it into his Æneid.

II.

Ulysses and his companions now had to use the oar on seas without wind; "their spirit was worn
out," hope had fled from them toiling through the becalmed deep. They arrive at the land of
the Læstrigonians, a race of giants, into whose narrow harbor surrounded by its high precipices
the ships enter, with the exception of that of Ulysses, who has learned caution. A kind of
cave of the Giant Despair is that harbor, reflecting outwardly the internal condition of the
men, after their weary labor coupled with the repulse from Æolus.

First of all we here observe a city with a civil order; there is the place of assembly, a king
over men, with a royal palace. No husbandry appears, but there are wagons fetching wood to
town on a smooth road (probably a made road); shepherds are specially designated, so that we
may suppose a pastoral life prevails, yet these people in their city are not roving nomads.
The Family also is noticed, being composed of the king, queen, and daughter; the latter is
bringing water from the town fountain--a primitive, idyllic touch. But the stress is manifestly
not upon the domestic but the civil institution; the State is here in full operation, in which
fact we mark the contrast with the preceding island, Æolia. Another sharp contrast may be drawn
between the Læstrigonians and the Cyclops; the latter are giants also, but have no civil order.

Ulysses, therefore, witnesses the State, in due gradation after the Family. He can come to
both these institutions now, and see them at least, for he has put down Polyphemus, who, we
recollect, was the negation of both. But only see them, not share in them; the curse of the
Cyclops is still working upon him and in him; though he destroy a destroyer, that does not
make him positive; the devil destroys the wicked, but that does not make him good. Hence the
State rejects him as did the Family; he is by no means ready to return to Ithaca and Penelope.
Such is his experience at present.

But why should the Læstrigonians be portrayed as giants? Of course the Fairy Tale deals in
these huge beings for its own purpose. Æolus and his children seem to have been of common stature.
The fancy can often play into the meaning, or suggest a glimpse thereof. The State may be called
the Big Man, the concentrated personality of many persons; he strikes hard, he overwhelms the
wrong-doer. Therefore he seems now so terrible to Ulysses, and is really so to the latter's
companions, of whom all perish here except one shipful. It is the function of the State to
punish; in the sweet domestic life of Æolus, there was no punishment, only banishment; thus
we behold now the penalty, at the hands of that institution which is specially to administer
it. The companions did no wrong to the Læstrigonians, but note that just here judgment comes
upon them. Ulysses escapes, but to him also these people appear as destroyers, as man-devouring
cannibals; so the State often seems to the guilty, overwhelming the individual with its penal
vengeance.

The Cyclops was also a giant and a cannibal, full of hostility; but mark the difference. He
was the Strong Man of Nature, not human in shape, with that one eye in his head; his violence
was against institutions, the violence of the wild barbarian, which has to be put down by man.
But the Læstrigonians live in a civilized order which has to punish the transgressor; their
shapes are not monstrosities of nature, but magnified human bodies. Both are giants and cannibals,
both negative, but in a wholly different sense.

What is the location of the Læstrigonians? A subject much disputed recently and of old, with
very little profit. Some expressions are puzzling: "The herdsman coming in greets the herdsman
going out;" then again, "a herdsman needing no sleep would earn double wages," which implies
apparently two periods for toil in twenty-four hours, the one "for tending cows" and the other
"for tending sheep;" and this is possible, "for the paths of day and night are near" to each
other, as if somehow day and night ran their courses together. What does it all mean? Some
dim story of the polar world with its bright nights, which story may have come from the far
North into Greece, along with another Northern product, amber, which was known to Homer, may
lie at the basis of this curious passage. But we can hardly place the Læstrigonians under polar
skies in spite of this polar characteristic. Others have sought their locality in the Black
Sea and have even seen their harbor in that of Balaklava. All of which is uncertain enough,
and destined to remain so, but furnishes a marvelous field for erudite conjecture and investigation.
The certain matter here, and we should say the important one also, is the institutional order
and its negative attitude toward Ulysses. That is, we must reach down and bring to light the
ethical thread which is spun through this wonderful texture of Fairy Tales, before we have
any real explanation, or connecting principle.

III.

Onward the wanderer, now with his single ship, has to sail again; whither next? He arrives
at another island called Ææa, "where dwells the fair-haired Circe, an awful Goddess, endowed
with a singing voice, own sister of the evil-minded wizard Æætes, both sprung of the Sun and
of Perse, daughter of Oceanus."

This genealogy we have set down in full, as given by the poet, on account of its suggestiveness.
These names carry us back to the East, quite to primitive Arya; here is the Sun, the God of
the old Vedas; here is Perse, curiously akin to Persia, which was light-worshiping in her ancient
religion; then we come to Æætes, father of Medea, usually held to be of Colchis on the Eastern
coast of the Black Sea, whence we busily pass to Hellas in many a legend, and from Hellas we
now have traveled far westward into Fairyland. One ancient story, probably the first, placed
Circe in the remote East; another, this of Homer for example, sends her to the far West; a
third united the two and told of the Flight of Circe upon the chariot of the Sun from Orient
to Occident, which is doubtless a much later form of the tale, though ascribed to Hesiod. Circe
is of a higher ancestry than Polyphemus, though both go back in origin to the sea with their
island homes; she, however, is a child of the light-giving body, and will show her descent
in the end. Her name is related to the circle, and hints the circling luminary, on whose car
she is said to have fled once. Here in Homer, however, we may note an inner circle of development;
she passes through a round of experience, and seems to complete a period of evolution. She
must be grasped as a movement, as a cycle of character, if you please; she develops within,
and this is the main fact of her portrayal.

The preceding etymological intimations are dim enough, yet they point back to Asia, and to
an old Aryan relationship. Not too much stress is to be put upon them, yet they are entitled
to their due recognition, and are not to be thrown aside as absolutely meaningless. By Homer,
himself, they could not have been understood, being traces of a migration and ethnical kinship
which had been in his time long forgotten, and which modern scholarship has resurrected through
the comparative study of language.

More important is the connection between Circe and the two preceding portions of this Book,
Æolia and the Læstrigonians. We have just seen how both Family and State cast Ulysses off,
must cast him off, since he is without moral subordination. The inner self-control demanded
by an institutional life he has not been able to reach, after the alienation produced by the
Trojan War; the bag of winds given into his hand by Æolus he could not keep tied. Why? Behold
Circe rise up and take on shape after his twofold experience. Really she is evolved out of
Ulysses in a certain sense; he sees her just now and not before, because he has created her.
Why is he thus repelled by Family and State? Circe is the answer; she is the enchantress who
stands for sensuous pleasure in its most alluring form; with her is now the battle.

Thus we approach another struggle of the hero, the longest and by far the most elaborately
unfolded, of the present Book. In many respects it is the counterpart of the story of Polyphemus
in the previous Book. There he meets and puts down the anti-institutional man; here he meets
and puts down the anti-moral woman. The one represents more the objective side of man's spirit,
the other more the subjective; both together image the totality of the ethical world, in its
two supreme aspects, institutions and morals.

Very famous has this story of Circe become in literature. It has furnished proverbs, allusions,
texts for exhortation; it has been wrought over into almost every possible form--drama, novel,
poem, paramyth; from the nursery to old age it retains its charm and power. Its meaning is
plain enough, especially at first; but it grows more weird and more profound as it develops;
at last it ascends quite into the beyond and points to the supersensible world.

Now the main point to be seized in this tale is the movement, the development of Circe through
her several stages, which are in the main three, showing Circe victorious, Circe conquered,
and Circe prophetic. Ulysses and his companions move along with these stages, being also in
the process; but the center of interest, the complete unfolding, is found in Circe. These three
chief stages we may give somewhat more fully before entering upon the detailed exposition.

First. The island is reached; some of the companions under a leader (not Ulysses) go to Circe's
abode, and are turned into swine after partaking of her food. Circe triumphant.

Second. Ulysses himself then goes, having obtained the plant moly; he subdues, enjoys; he releases
his companions. He finally asks to be sent home, according to the promise she had given. Circe
subordinated.

Third. Then she reveals her prophetic power and announces the future journey to Hades, ere
he can return home. Thus she sends him on beyond herself, and reaches her culmination in this Book.

Of these three stages the last seems inappropriate to Circe's character, and is always a puzzle
to the reader, till he probes to the thought underlying the tale. Circe, then, is to show herself
a seeress, and foreshadow the world beyond the present. Why just that in her case? But before
the question can be answered, we must unfold the first two stages.

I. After an introduction which names the new island and its occupant, as well as gives a bit
of her genealogy, the tale takes up Ulysses and his companions. After a rest of two days and
two nights, the hero goes forth to spy out the land, ascends a hill whence he sees the smoke
of Circe's palace rising "through the bushes and the trees." His last experience makes him
careful, his thirst for knowledge does not now drive him to go at once into her presence. He
returns to his companions with his information, and on the way back he kills a high-horned
stag, "which had come down from the woods to the stream to slake its thirst." The result is
a good meal for all once more, and a restoration of hope.

1. In such a mood he imparts his discovery: "I have seen with mine eyes smoke in the center
of the island." Terror-striking was the announcement to his companions, who at once thought
of "the cannibals, Cyclops and Læstrigonians." And they had cause for fear. It may, however,
be said in advance that Circe is not a man-eater, but a man-transformer; she is a new phase
of the great experience, she bestializes; she is negative, not so much from without as from
within, not consuming the human shape but transmuting it into that of an animal.

A curious expression here needs some explanation. "We know not where is east and where is west,
not where the Sun goes under the earth, nor where he rises." Why not? There have been several
ways of viewing this passage. Ulysses did not know the countries where the Sun set or rose,
though he must have seen the direction. A statement from Voss may be here translated: "The
side of night and of day he knew well, for he saw sunrise and sunset; but he does not know
into what region of the world he has wandered away from home." One other suggestion: it may
have been very foggy or cloudy weather at the time. The internal hint, however, is clear; he
is astray, lost; he knows not what direction to take for his return.

But something has to be done. Accordingly Ulysses divides his crew into two portions, one commanded
by Eurylochus, the other by himself. The lot decided that Eurylochus and his company should
go to the house of Circe, and the lot always decides aright in the hand of Ulysses. Forth they
"go wailing, two and twenty companions, and leave us behind, weeping." A tearful time for those
forty-four people plus the two leaders; which numbers give a basis for calculating the size
of the crew, of which six had been already destroyed by the Ciconians and six by the Cyclops.

2. Soon they reach the abode of Circe, whose picture is now drawn with characteristic touches.
She is beautiful, sings with a beautiful voice, and makes beautiful things, weaving webs such
as the Goddesses weave. Surely an artistic being; her palace is built of hewn stone, not of
natural rock, yet it lies in the depths of the forest. Here again she shows her power: wild
animals, wolves and lions, lie around--fawning upon, not attacking men, tamed by her powerful
drugs. That is, she shows herself the mistress of nature, or rather the transformer thereof;
her mighty spell can change character and shape.

There has been a difference of opinion from antiquity down to the present about these animals.
Are they transformed men, or merely wild animals tamed? The matter is left in doubt by the
poet and either view will answer for the passage. The connection, however, with the transformation
of the companions of Ulysses, would suggest the first meaning. These partake of her food, with
which she mingles her drug, "in order that they might wholly forget their native country."
But here is something more than the indifference of the Lotus-eaters; these eaters and drinkers
at once become swine as to "their heads, voices and hair," and eat the acorn and the fruit
of cornel-tree, "like wallowing pigs." Yet their mind remained "firm as before."

There can be no doubt that Time has interpreted this scene in but one way, and Time is probably
correct. Still it is not here expressly said that the companions indulged to excess in food
and drink, though they apparently had just had a sufficiency of feasting along the sea-shore,
on venison and wine, "unspeakable meat and sweet drink." We must, however, consider the whole
to be a phase of that same lack of inner subordination which led these people to untie the
fatal bag of winds upon a former occasion.

3. One man alone escaped to tell the story, as so often happens in such adventures; it is Eurylochus,
"who remained outside the palace suspecting guile." When Ulysses hears the account, he proposes
to go at once and release his comrades. Eurylochus beseeches him not to attempt it, but he
persists, saying, "I shall go, a strong necessity is upon me." Possibly in his contemptuous
expression, "You stay in this place eating and drinking," is hinted just that which he is now
to put down, in contrast with his companions. Eurylochus is the man who is unable to solve
the problem; he runs away from it, is afraid of it, and leaves his wretched associates behind.
But the problem must have a positive solution, which here follows.

II. We are now to witness the dealings of Ulysses with Circe; he is to subordinate her, making
her into a means, not an end; she will recognize him and submit completely, taking an oath
not to do him any harm; she will release his companions and restore them to their natural forms
at his behest; she will then properly entertain the entire crew, no longer turning them into
swine. The world of the appetites and the senses will be duly ordered and subjected to the
rational; from an imperious enchantress Ulysses changes Circe into an instrument of life and
restoration. He is the transformer of her, not she of him; for she will reduce man to a beast,
unless he reduces her to reason.

1. Ulysses on his way to Circe's palace is met by a seeming youth (really a God, Mercury) who
warns him and gives him a plant potent against the drugs of the enchantress. It is manifest
that Ulysses has a divine call; he knows already his problem from Eurylochus, the God reiterates
it and inspires him with courage. Very hard indeed! And the whole account is symbolical, we
think, consciously symbolical; it has an Orphic tinge, hinting of mystic rites. At any rate
the hero has now the divine antidote; still he is to exert himself with all his valor; "when
she shall smite thee with her staff, draw thy sword and rush upon her, as if intending to kill
her." Thus he is to assert the god-like element in himself, the rational, and subject to it
the sensuous. It is clear that Ulysses is beginning to master the lesson of his experience.

2. He does as the God (and his own valor) directed, and Circe cowers down subdued. She is not
supreme, there is something higher and she knows it. At once she recognizes who it is: "Art
thou that wily Ulysses whose coming hither from Troy in his black ship has often been foretold
to me?" Such a prophecy she must have known and felt, she had mind and was aware of a power
above her, which would some day put her down, after the Trojan time. In like manner Polyphemus,
the man of nature, has heard of a coming conqueror, and actually named him.

This one kind of subjection, however, is not enough, it must be made universal. Every kind
of subordination of the sensuous, not merely in the matter of eating and drinking, is necessary.
The next thing to be guarded against is carnal indulgence, which may "make me cowardly and
unmanly." Hence Circe has "to swear the great oath, not to plot against me any harm." Thus
in the two chief forms of human appetite, that of eating and drinking and that of sexual indulgence,
she is subjected.

Ulysses is beginning to have some claims to being a moral hero, still he is not by any means
an ascetic. He has the Greek notion of morality; we have a right to enjoy, but enjoyment must
not make us bestial; rational moderation is the law. He drinks of Circe's cup, but does not
let it turn him into a swine; he shares in all her pleasures, but never suffers his head to
get dizzy with her blandishments. Every seductive delicacy she sets before him, mingled with
the most charming flattery; "I did not like the feast." Why? This leads us to the next and
higher point.

3. Lofty is the response of Ulysses: "O Circe, what right-minded man would endure to touch
food and drink before seeing his companions released?" At once she goes to the sty and sets
them free, restoring their shapes, "and they became younger, larger, and more beautiful than
they were before." A great advantage is this to any man; it is worth the hard experience to
come out with such a gain, especially as the companions must have been getting a little old,
stooped and wrinkled, having gone through so many years of hardship at Troy and on the sea.

4. Thus Ulysses has transformed Circe into an instrument for restoring his fallen comrades;
surely a noble act. Next she of her own accord asks Ulysses to go to the sea-shore for the
rest of his men and to bring them to her palace for refreshment and entertainment. This he
succeeds in doing after some opposition from the terrified Eurylochus, who has not yet gotten
over his scare. Sorely did the companions need this rest and recuperation after their many
sufferings on land and sea; "weak and spiritless they were, always thinking of the bitter wandering."
But now in the palace of Circe "they feasted every day for a whole year," eating and drinking
without being turned into swine. Even Eurylochus follows after, "for he feared my terrible threat."

Thus we catch the sweep of this grand experience of and with Circe; if she governs, she bestializes
man; if she serves, she refreshes and restores. Her complete subordination is witnessed; from
transforming people into swine, she is herself transformed into their helper, and she becomes
an important factor in the great Return to home and country. But it is time to think of this
Return again; the period of repose and enjoyment must come to an end.

III. Here, then, we behold a new phase of Circe, that of the seeress into the Beyond. Ulysses
says to her at the end of the year: "Now make your promise good, send us home, for which we
long." Stunning is the answer after that period of relaxation: "Ye must go another way, ye
must pass into the Houses of Hades." It is indeed a terrible response. But for what purpose?
"To consult the soul of the blind Theban seer Tiresias, whose mind is still unimpaired; to
him alone of the dead Proserpine gave a mind to know." Clearly this means the pure intelligence
without body; Ulysses must now reach forth to the incorporeal spirit, to the very Idea beyond
the senses, beyond life.

