That was not the opinion of the priest and soldier at Our Lady of the Snows.  But this is a
different race; and perhaps the same great-heartedness that upheld them to resist, now enables
them to differ in a kind spirit.  For courage respects courage; but where a faith has been
trodden out, we may look for a mean and narrow population.  The true work of Bruce and Wallace
was the union of the nations; not that they should stand apart a while longer, skirmishing
upon their borders; but that, when the time came, they might unite with self-respect.

The merchant was much interested in my journey, and thought it dangerous to sleep afield.

'There are the wolves,' said he; 'and then it is known you are an Englishman.  'Something,'
said I, 'might burst in your inside any day of the week, and there would be an end of you,
if you were locked into your room with three turns of the key.'

'Cependant,' said he, 'coucher dehors!'

'God,' said I, 'is everywhere.'

'Cependant, coucher dehors!' he repeated, and his voice was eloquent of terror.

He was the only person, in all my voyage, who saw anything hardy in so simple a proceeding;
although many considered it superfluous.  Only one, on the other hand, professed much delight
in the idea; and that was my Plymouth Brother, who cried out, when I told him I sometimes preferred
sleeping under the stars to a close and noisy ale-house, 'Now I see that you know the Lord!'

The merchant asked me for one of my cards as I was leaving, for he said I should be something
to talk of in the future, and desired me to make a note of his request and reason; a desire
with which I have thus complied.

A little after two I struck across the Mimente, and took a rugged path southward up a hillside
covered with loose stones and tufts of heather. At the top, as is the habit of the country,
the path disappeared; and I left my she-ass munching heather, and went forward alone to seek
a road.

I was now on the separation of two vast water-sheds; behind me all the streams were bound for
the Garonne and the Western Ocean; before me was the basin of the Rhone.  Hence, as from the
Lozere, you can see in clear weather the shining of the Gulf of Lyons; and perhaps from here
the soldiers of Salomon may have watched for the topsails of Sir Cloudesley Shovel, and the
long-promised aid from England.  You may take this ridge as lying in the heart of the country
of the Camisards; four of the five legions camped all round it and almost within view--Salomon
and Joani to the north, Castanet and Roland to the south; and when Julien had finished his
famous work, the devastation of the High Cevennes, which lasted all through October and November
1703, and during which four hundred and sixty villages and hamlets were, with fire and pickaxe,
utterly subverted, a man standing on this eminence would have looked forth upon a silent, smokeless,
and dispeopled land.  Time and man's activity have now repaired these ruins; Cassagnas is once
more roofed and sending up domestic smoke; and in the chestnut gardens, in low and leafy corners,
many a prosperous farmer returns, when the day's work is done, to his children and bright hearth.
And still it was perhaps the wildest view of all my journey.  Peak upon peak, chain upon chain
of hills ran surging southward, channelled and sculptured by the winter streams, feathered
from head to foot with chestnuts, and here and there breaking out into a coronal of cliffs.
The sun, which was still far from setting, sent a drift of misty gold across the hill-tops,
but the valleys were already plunged in a profound and quiet shadow.

A very old shepherd, hobbling on a pair of sticks, and wearing a black cap of liberty, as if
in honour of his nearness to the grave, directed me to the road for St. Germain de Calberte.
There was something solemn in the isolation of this infirm and ancient creature.  Where he
dwelt, how he got upon this high ridge, or how he proposed to get down again, were more than
I could fancy.  Not far off upon my right was the famous Plan de Font Morte, where Poul with
his Armenian sabre slashed down the Camisards of Seguier.  This, methought, might be some Rip
van Winkle of the war, who had lost his comrades, fleeing before Poul, and wandered ever since
upon the mountains.  It might be news to him that Cavalier had surrendered, or Roland had fallen
fighting with his back against an olive.  And while I was thus working on my fancy, I heard
him hailing in broken tones, and saw him waving me to come back with one of his two sticks.
I had already got some way past him; but, leaving Modestine once more, retraced my steps.

Alas, it was a very commonplace affair.  The old gentleman had forgot to ask the pedlar what
he sold, and wished to remedy this neglect.

I told him sternly, 'Nothing.'

'Nothing?' cried he.

I repeated 'Nothing,' and made off.

It's odd to think of, but perhaps I thus became as inexplicable to the old man as he had been
to me.

The road lay under chestnuts, and though I saw a hamlet or two below me in the vale, and many
lone houses of the chestnut farmers, it was a very solitary march all afternoon; and the evening
began early underneath the trees.  But I heard the voice of a woman singing some sad, old,
endless ballad not far off.  It seemed to be about love and a bel amoureux, her handsome sweetheart;
and I wished I could have taken up the strain and answered her, as I went on upon my invisible
woodland way, weaving, like Pippa in the poem, my own thoughts with hers.  What could I have
told her?  Little enough; and yet all the heart requires.  How the world gives and takes away,
and brings sweethearts near only to separate them again into distant and strange lands; but
to love is the great amulet which makes the world a garden; and 'hope, which comes to all,'
outwears the accidents of life, and reaches with tremulous hand beyond the grave and death.
Easy to say: yea, but also, by God's mercy, both easy and grateful to believe!

We struck at last into a wide white high-road carpeted with noiseless dust.  The night had
come; the moon had been shining for a long while upon the opposite mountain; when on turning
a corner my donkey and I issued ourselves into her light.  I had emptied out my brandy at Florac,
for I could bear the stuff no longer, and replaced it with some generous and scented Volnay;
and now I drank to the moon's sacred majesty upon the road.  It was but a couple of mouthfuls;
yet I became thenceforth unconscious of my limbs, and my blood flowed with luxury.  Even Modestine
was inspired by this purified nocturnal sunshine, and bestirred her little hoofs as to a livelier
measure.  The road wound and descended swiftly among masses of chestnuts.  Hot dust rose from
our feet and flowed away.  Our two shadows--mine deformed with the knapsack, hers comically
bestridden by the pack--now lay before us clearly outlined on the road, and now, as we turned
a corner, went off into the ghostly distance, and sailed along the mountain like clouds.  From
time to time a warm wind rustled down the valley, and set all the chestnuts dangling their
bunches of foliage and fruit; the ear was filled with whispering music, and the shadows danced
in tune.  And next moment the breeze had gone by, and in all the valley nothing moved except
our travelling feet. On the opposite slope, the monstrous ribs and gullies of the mountain
were faintly designed in the moonshine; and high overhead, in some lone house, there burned
one lighted window, one square spark of red in the huge field of sad nocturnal colouring.

At a certain point, as I went downward, turning many acute angles, the moon disappeared behind
the hill; and I pursued my way in great darkness, until another turning shot me without preparation
into St. Germain de Calberte.  The place was asleep and silent, and buried in opaque night.
Only from a single open door, some lamplight escaped upon the road to show me that I was come
among men's habitations.  The two last gossips of the evening, still talking by a garden wall,
directed me to the inn.  The landlady was getting her chicks to bed; the fire was already out,
and had, not without grumbling, to be rekindled; half an hour later, and I must have gone supperless
to roost.

THE LAST DAY

When I awoke (Thursday, 2nd October), and, hearing a great flourishing of cocks and chuckling
of contented hens, betook me to the window of the clean and comfortable room where I had slept
the night, I looked forth on a sunshiny morning in a deep vale of chestnut gardens.  It was
still early, and the cockcrows, and the slanting lights, and the long shadows encouraged me
to be out and look round me.

St. Germain de Calberte is a great parish nine leagues round about.  At the period of the wars,
and immediately before the devastation, it was inhabited by two hundred and seventy-five families,
of which only nine were Catholic; and it took the cure seventeen September days to go from
house to house on horseback for a census.  But the place itself, although capital of a canton,
is scarce larger than a hamlet.  It lies terraced across a steep slope in the midst of mighty
chestnuts.  The Protestant chapel stands below upon a shoulder; in the midst of the town is
the quaint old Catholic church.

It was here that poor Du Chayla, the Christian martyr, kept his library and held a court of
missionaries; here he had built his tomb, thinking to lie among a grateful population whom
he had redeemed from error; and hither on the morrow of his death they brought the body, pierced
with two- and-fifty wounds, to be interred.  Clad in his priestly robes, he was laid out in
state in the church.  The cure, taking his text from Second Samuel, twentieth chapter and twelfth
verse, 'And Amasa wallowed in his blood in the highway,' preached a rousing sermon, and exhorted
his brethren to die each at his post, like their unhappy and illustrious superior.  In the
midst of this eloquence there came a breeze that Spirit Seguier was near at hand; and behold!
all the assembly took to their horses' heels, some east, some west, and the cure himself as
far as Alais.

Strange was the position of this little Catholic metropolis, a thimbleful of Rome, in such
a wild and contrary neighbourhood.  On the one hand, the legion of Salomon overlooked it from
Cassagnas; on the other, it was cut off from assistance by the legion of Roland at Mialet.
The cure, Louvrelenil, although he took a panic at the arch-priest's funeral, and so hurriedly
decamped to Alais, stood well by his isolated pulpit, and thence uttered fulminations against
the crimes of the Protestants. Salomon besieged the village for an hour and a half, but was
beaten back. The militiamen, on guard before the cure's door, could be heard, in the black
hours, singing Protestant psalms and holding friendly talk with the insurgents.  And in the
morning, although not a shot had been fired, there would not be a round of powder in their
flasks.  Where was it gone? All handed over to the Camisards for a consideration.  Untrusty
guardians for an isolated priest!

