 During this interval, the conjectures of people, with regard to
the old gentleman's will, were various: as it was well known, he had, besides his landed estate,
which was worth £700 per annum, six or seven thousand pounds at interest, some imagined that
the whole real estate (which he had greatly improved) would go to the young man whom he always
entertained as his heir; and that the money would be equally divided between my female cousins
(five in number) and me. Others were of opinion, that, as the rest of the children had been
already provided for, he would only bequeath two or three hundred pounds to each of his granddaughters,
and leave the bulk of the sum to me, to atone for his unnatural usage of my father. At length
the important hour arrived, and the will was produced in the midst of the expectants, whose
looks and gestures formed a group that would have been very entertaining to an unconcerned
spectator. But, the reader can scarce conceive the astonishment and mortification that appeared,
when an attorney pronounced aloud, the young squire sole heir of all his grandfather's estate,
personal and real. My uncle, who had listened with great attention, sucking the head of his
cudgel all the while, accompanied these words of the attorney with a stare, and whew, that
alarmed the whole assembly. The eldest and pertest of my female competitors, who had been always
very officious about my grandfather's person, inquired, with a faltering accent and visage
as yellow as an orange, "if there were no legacies?" and was answered, "None at all." Upon
which she fainted away. The rest, whose expectations, perhaps, were not so sanguine, supported
their disappointment with more resolution, though not without giving evident marks of indignation,
and grief at least as genuine as that which appeared in them at the old gentleman's death.
My conductor, after having kicked with his heel for some time against the wainscot, began:
"So there's no legacy, friend, ha!--here's an old succubus; but somebody's soul howls for it,
d--n me!" The parson of the parish, who was one of the executors, and had acted as ghostly
director to the old man, no sooner heard this exclamation than he cried out, "Avaunt, unchristian
reviler! avaunt! wilt thou not allow the soul of his honour to rest in peace?" But this zealous
pastor did not find himself so warmly seconded, as formerly, by the young ladies, who now joined
my uncle against him, and accused him of having acted the part of a busybody with their grandpapa
whose ears he had certainly abused by false stories to their prejudice, or else he would not
have neglected them in such an unnatural manner. The young squire was much diverted with this
scene, and whispered to my uncle, that if he had not murdered his dogs, he would have shown
him glorious fun, by hunting a black badger (so he termed the clergyman). The surly lieutenant,
who was not in a humour to relish this amusement, replied, "You and your dogs may be damn'd.
I suppose you'll find them with your old dad, in the latitude of hell. Come, Rory,--about ship,
my lad, we must steer another course, I think." And away we went.

CHAPTER V

The Schoolmaster uses me barbarously--I form a Project of Revenge, in which I am assisted by
my Uncle--I leave the Village--am settled at a University by his Generosity

