I think, Sir, I have perceived enough of the amiable benignity of your mind, to be sure that
you will like to hear the praises of your friend.[1] Indeed, there is but one opinion about
Mr. Robertson's "History [of Scotland]." I don't remember any other work that ever met universal
approbation. Since the Romans and the Greeks, who have now an exclusive charter for being the
best writers in every kind, he is the historian that pleases me best; and though what he has
been so indulgent as to say of me ought to shut my mouth, I own I have been unmeasured in my
commendations. I have forfeited my own modesty rather than not do justice to him. I did send
him my opinion some time ago, and hope he received it. I can add, with the strictest truth,
that he is regarded here as one of the greatest men that this island has produced. I say island,
but you know, Sir, that I am disposed to say Scotland. I have discovered another very agreeable
writer among your countrymen, and in a profession where I did not look for an author; it is
Mr. Ramsay, the painter, whose pieces being anonymous, have been overlooked. He has a great
deal of genuine wit, and a very just manner of reasoning. In his own walk, he has great merit.
He and Mr. Reynolds are our favourite painters, and two of the very best we ever had. Indeed,
the number of good has been very small, considering the numbers there are. A very few years
ago there were computed two thousand portrait-painters in London; I do not exaggerate the computation,
but diminish it; though I think it must have been exaggerated. Mr. Reynolds and Mr. Ramsay
can scarce be rivals; their manners are so different. The former is bold, and has a kind of
tempestuous colouring, yet with dignity and grace; the latter is all delicacy. Mr. Reynolds
seldom succeeds in women; Mr. Ramsay is formed to paint them.

[Footnote 1: Sir David was himself a historical writer of some importance. Macaulay was greatly
indebted to his "Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland from the Restoration to the Battle of
La Hogue." The secret history and object of the strange attempt on James VI. (afterwards James
I. of England) have been discussed by many writers, but without any of them succeeding in any
very clear or certain elucidation of the transaction.]

I fear I neglected, Sir, to thank you for your present of the history of the "Conspiracy of
the Gowries"; but I shall never forget all the obligations I have to you. I don't doubt but
in Scotland you approve what is liked here almost as much as Mr. Robertson's History; I mean
the marriage of Colonel Campbell and the Duchess of Hamilton. If her fortune is singular, so
is her merit. Such uncommon noise as her beauty made has not at all impaired the modesty of
her behaviour. Adieu!

WRITERS OF HISTORY: GOODALL, HUME, ROBERTSON--QUEEN CHRISTINA.

TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

STRAWBERRY HILL, July 11, 1759.

You will repent, Sir, I fear, having drawn such a correspondent upon yourself. An author flattered
and encouraged is not easily shaken off again; but if the interests of my book did not engage
me to trouble you, while you are so good as to write me the most entertaining letters in the
world, it is very natural for me to lay snares to inveigle more of them. However, Sir, excuse
me this once, and I will be more modest for the future in trespassing on your kindness. Yet,
before I break out on my new wants, it will be but decent, Sir, to answer some particulars
of your letter.

I have lately read Mr. Goodall's[1] book. There is certainly ingenuity in parts of his defence;
but I believe one seldom thinks a defence ingenious without meaning that it is unsatisfactory.
His work left me fully convinced of what he endeavoured to disprove; and showed me, that the
piece you mention is not the only one that he has written against moderation.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Goodall had published an Essay on the letters put forward as written by Queen
Mary to Bothwell, branding them as forgeries. The question of their genuineness has been examined
with great acuteness by more than one subsequent writer, and the arguments against their genuineness
are certainly very strong.]

I have lately got Lord Cromerty's "Vindication of the legitimacy of King Robert [the Third],"
and his "Synopsis Apocalyptica," and thank you much, Sir, for the notice of any of his pieces.
But if you expect that his works should lessen my esteem for the writers of Scotland, you will
please to recollect, that the letter which paints Lord Cromerty's pieces in so ridiculous a
light, is more than a counterbalance in favour of the writers of your country; and of all men
living, Sir, you are the last who will destroy my partiality for Scotland.

There is another point, Sir, on which, with all your address, you will persuade me as little.
Can I think that we want writers of history while Mr. Hume and Mr. Robertson are living? It
is a truth, and not a compliment, that I never heard objections made to Mr. Hume's History
without endeavouring to convince the persons who found fault with it, of its great merit and
beauty; and for what I saw of Mr. Robertson's work, it is one of the purest styles, and of
the greatest impartiality, that I ever read. It is impossible for me to recommend a subject
to him; because I cannot judge of what materials he can obtain. His present performance will
undoubtedly make him so well known and esteemed, that he will have credit to obtain many new
lights for a future history; but surely those relating to his own country will always lie most
open to him. This is much my way of thinking with regard to myself. Though the Life of Christina[1]
is a pleasing and a most uncommon subject, yet, totally unacquainted as I am with Sweden and
its language, how could I flatter myself with saying anything new of her? And when original
letters and authentic papers shall hereafter appear, may not they contradict half one should
relate on the authority of what is already published? for though Memoirs written nearest to
the time are likely to be the truest, those published nearest to it are generally the falsest.

[Footnote 1: Queen Christina of Sweden was the daughter and heiress of the great Gustavus Adolphus.
After a time she abdicated the throne and lived for some time in Paris, where she acted in
one respect as if still possessed of royal authority, actually causing her equerry, Monaldeschi,
to be hung in one of her sitting-rooms.]

But, indeed, Sir, I am now making you only civil excuses; the real one is, I have no kind of
intention of continuing to write. I could not expect to succeed again with so much luck,--indeed,
I think it so,--as I have done; it would mortify me more now, after a little success, to be
despised, than it would have done before; and if I could please as much as I should wish to
do, I think one should dread being a voluminous author. My own idleness, too, bids me desist.
If I continued, I should certainly take more pains than I did in my Catalogue; the trouble
would not only be more than I care to encounter, but would probably destroy what I believe
the only merit of my last work, the ease. If I could incite you to tread in steps which I perceive
you don't condemn, and for which it is evident you are so well qualified, from your knowledge,
the grace, facility, and humour of your expression and manner, I shall have done a real service,
where I expected at best to amuse.

THE BATTLE OF MINDEN--LORD G. SACKVILLE.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

ARLINGTON STREET, Aug. 14, 1759.

I am here in the most unpleasant way in the world, attending poor Mrs. Leneve's death-bed,
a spectator of all the horrors of tedious suffering and clear sense, and with no one soul to
speak to--but I will not tire you with a description of what has quite worn me out.

Probably by this time you have seen the Duke of Richmond or Fitzroy--but lest you should not,
I will tell you all I can learn, and a wonderful history it is. Admiral Byng was not more unpopular
than Lord George Sackville.[1] I should scruple repeating his story if Betty and the waiters
at Arthur's did not talk of it publicly, and thrust Prince Ferdinand's orders into one's hand.

[Footnote 1: Lord George was brought to court-martial for disobedience of orders, and most
deservedly cashiered--a sentence which was, not very becomingly, oveilooked some years afterwards,
when, having changed his name to Germaine on succeeding to a large fortune, and having become
a member of the House of Commons, he was made a Secretary of State by Lord North.]

You have heard, I suppose, of the violent animosities that have reigned for the whole campaign
between him and Lord Granby--in which some other warm persons have been very warm too. In the
heat of the battle, the Prince, finding thirty-six squadrons of French coming down upon our
army, sent Ligonier to order our thirty-two squadrons, under Lord George, to advance. During
that transaction, the French appeared to waver; and Prince Ferdinand, willing, as it is supposed,
to give the honour to the British horse of terminating the day, sent Fitzroy to bid Lord George
bring up only the British cavalry. Ligonier had but just delivered his message, when Fitzroy
came with his.--Lord George said, "This can't be so--would he have me break the line? here
is some mistake." Fitzroy replied, he had not argued upon the orders, but those were the orders.
"Well!" said Lord George, "but I want a guide." Fitzroy said, he would be his guide. Lord George,
"Where is the Prince?" Fitzroy, "I left him at the head of the left wing, I don't know where
he is now." Lord George said he would go seek him, and have this explained. Smith then asked
Fitzroy to repeat the orders to him; which being done, Smith went and whispered Lord George,
who says he then bid Smith carry up the cavalry. Smith is come, and says he is ready to answer
anybody any question. Lord George says, Prince Ferdinand's behaviour to him has been most infamous,
has asked leave to resign his command, and to come over, which is granted. Prince Ferdinand's
behaviour is summed up in the enclosed extraordinary paper: which you will doubt as I did,
but which is certainly genuine. I doubted, because, in the military, I thought direct disobedience
of orders was punished with an immediate arrest, and because the last paragraph seemed to me
very foolish. The going out of the way to compliment Lord Granby with what he would have done,
seems to take off a little from the compliments paid to those that have done something; but,
in short, Prince Ferdinand or Lord George, one of them, is most outrageously in the wrong,
and the latter has much the least chance of being thought in the right.

The particulars I tell you, I collected from the most accurate authorities.--I make no comments
on Lord George, it would look like a little dirty court to you; and the best compliment I can
make you, is to think, as I do, that you will be the last man to enjoy this revenge.

You will be sorry for poor M'Kinsey and Lady Betty, who have lost their only child at Turin. Adieu!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 13, 1759.

