Another objection that I urge against this kind of game is, that even when there is nobody
pressing behind and there is no particular reason for hurry, there is a natural tendency on
the part of each player to make haste so that he shall not delay the other three. This is the
case all the way through the green, and particularly when the hole is reached and the putters
are taken out. Then everybody's ball seems to be in the way of the others, there is continual
lifting and replacing, more hurrying, and then, to make matters worse, there is a doubt as
to what a man should do in order to help his side--whether he should hole out in one or two,
or whether there is any use in holing out at all. Consequently his mind is in a confused state
of reckoning and doubt when he makes his putt, and poor putt it is likely to be in such circumstances.
Frequently, when a blind hole is being played, it needs a few minutes' close examination to
decide which ball is which after the drive, unless each has been carefully marked to distinguish
it from the others. As a final indictment against this species of golf, I would say that even
when the partners are equally matched and both good players, there is still a tendency for
their individual play to be spoiled, inasmuch as there is the feeling constantly present in
the mind of each, that even if he does happen to do a bad hole it will not matter very much
after all, as the other man is sure to come to the rescue. When it happens that just the same
thought enters the brain of that other man, a lost hole is likely to be the result. Decidedly
this is not the sort of game to improve the golfer's play.

The four-ball foursome is so very like two single matches that there is little special advice
to offer concerning the playing of it. One of the few special points to be observed by the
player who is taking part in such a match is that, without being unduly selfish and grasping,
he should as frequently as possible avoid being the last man of the four to make his drive
from the tee. The man who drives last is at a very obvious disadvantage. In the first place,
if he has seen the other three make really good drives, he is too much tempted to try to beat
them all, and the usual result of such temptation is a bad stroke. On the other hand, if he
has seen two or three foozles, it is quite possible that he will follow the bad example that
has been set him. Thus, whatever has happened before, the last man has no real encouragement
offered to him. In addition to these objections, when three men have driven from the tee they
are somewhat impatient to be moving on and playing their second shots, and in this mood they
have little care for what happens to the last drive. They have already had quite enough of
driving. The fourth man is quite conscious of this impatience on their part, even though it
may not be openly expressed by the smallest sign. So he is in a hurry to oblige, and his effort
is then disappointing. I seldom hit my best ball when I am driving fourth in a four-ball foursome.
Of course somebody must drive last, but not necessarily the same man every time. All that I
wish to suggest is, that a player should not be too self-sacrificing, and should not, with
too much modesty about his own prowess on the tee, always volunteer to drive after his partner.

The old-fashioned or two-ball foursome makes a really fine and enjoyable game. It brings golfers
together on even more intimate and friendly relations than usual. Partners in a foursome see
very deep down into the human nature of each other. They are overwhelmingly conscious of each
other's faults and weaknesses. They are enormously dependent upon each other. At the same time
I do not think that even this kind of foursome is the best thing in the world for the improvement
of a man's game, and I advise the young player to resist the temptation to take part in too
many foursomes, to the neglect of ordinary match play in singles. For one thing, the partners,
of course, only get half as much golf as they would if they were playing a round in a single
match, and for another, they are too constantly anxious to play their best game. The sense
of responsibility is frequently a little too much for their nerves, and you often see a man,
a most dogged and persistent player in an ordinary match, who is a consistent failure in foursomes,
and who in this style of game ought to be rated at six strokes higher handicap than his allowance
for ordinary purposes. One feels in a foursome that one must be so very careful, and take so
much extra pains, and when that feeling is uppermost in the mind while the stroke is being
made, the result is often disastrous.

It is unwise to interfere unduly with a partner's system of play while a match is in progress.
He may be missing his drive because his stance is wrong or his swing is faulty, but the state
of affairs would probably be worse than ever if an attempt were made to put him right while
the game is going on. The hint will be more useful when the match is over. And if he has a
particular fancy for playing his brassy, when experience tells you that an iron club should
be taken, it will not generally pay to make the suggestion at the time. The man naturally takes
the club with which he has most confidence and with which he believes he can make the shot
that is wanted. It is fatal to interfere with confidence of this kind, and to substitute for
it the hesitation and doubt which inevitably take possession of the man when he takes in his
hands a weapon with which he rarely does well, and which, whatever you may tell him, he is
convinced is utterly inadequate for the purposes of the situation. Let each man play the various
strokes that have to be made in a foursome in his own way without interference, for nothing
but chaos and a lost match can follow upon the enforcement upon each other of individual ideas
and methods.

This, of course, is not saying that each man should not play his game so that it may fit as
well as possible into that of his partner. He may play with the club he particularly fancies,
and play it in his own way, but there should be some sort of a general understanding about
what he is going to do and the exact effect which his performance is likely to have upon the
way the hole is played if everything happens according to programme. This makes it very desirable
that the partners in a foursome match to which any importance is attached, should have more
than a passing knowledge of each other's play, and of individual weaknesses and excellences.
One partner may be particularly good at making a fairly full iron shot, but shaky indeed when
it comes to a little pitch with the mashie over the bunker that guards the green. It is clear,
on reflection, that the chief part in this playing up to each other's game should be taken
by the man who has the longer handicap, and is therefore the weaker all-round player. The scratch
man, being a wise and experienced golfer, will naturally place his nervous 18-handicap friend
in as few difficulties as he can, and will constantly exert himself to leave him a comparatively
simple shot which he may be depended upon with some certainty to accomplish in a workmanlike
fashion. But the junior player must remember that it behoves him to be the most careful and
considerate in matters of this kind, for in an emergency it is generally the senior who must
be depended upon to win the hole or pull the match out of the fire. Let him, therefore, impose
upon himself a considerable measure of self-sacrifice, playing up to his partner for all he
is worth, contented in the knowledge that he is doing the proper thing, and that, though he
is sinking his own individuality and doing much of what can only be described as donkey work,
he is being considerably honoured by being invited to play in such superior company. It is
not always the place of the junior partner to take risks; that is the prerogative of the senior.
There may be a particular carry on the course which the young player is always doubtful about,
but which when playing alone he constantly makes an attempt to accomplish, and very properly
so. But if his effort is as often as not a failure--with the result that he is badly bunkered
and the hole is lost--it would be madness for him to attempt the carry when he is playing in
a foursome with a far better man than himself as his partner. He must depart from his usual
custom, and play short for safety. It will be a great relief to his partner. Not lately, but
in the early years of my experience, I have seen this principle carried to a curious excess.
When there was a difficult carry from the tee, and an inferior player and short driver had
the turn to make the stroke, I have seen his partner instruct him to miss the ball altogether--not
tap it off the tee, but miss it. Thus the other man, presumably a good driver, had the ball
left teed for him. These men reckoned between them that on an average it would prove of more
advantage to be well over the far hazard in two strokes, than to take the risk of being short
with the tee shot and possibly not getting over with the second or even the third. However,
there is no doubt that performances of this kind were a violation of the spirit of golf. It
is the game to hit the ball, and it is unsportsmanlike to try to miss it. Nowadays the golfing
world quite realises that this is the case.

In the same way, in playing through the green and in putting, it must be the constant object
of the junior to play the safety game and to feed his skilful partner with as many as possible
of those strokes at which he is best. Do not let him try for a desperately long second, emulating
the example which his partner set him on the tee, in the hope that he may land the ball on
the green. He is not expected to do anything of the kind. If he should happen to be successful,
his partner would know that it was not his usual custom, that he had played beyond himself,
and that therefore there was something of the fluke in the stroke after all. He would be much
more likely to fail and foozle, and then what a miserable golfer would he be! His obvious duty
is to play a simple, easy stroke which will be practically certain of placing the ball in such
a position that his partner will have no difficulty in getting on the green with his third.
And on the putting green, when anything over ten feet distance intervenes between the ball
and the hole, while always giving the latter a chance, he should remember that his first duty
is to lay the ball dead. If he holes out, well and good, but his partner insists first of all
that the ball should be laid dead. At this crisis, also, he should be particularly careful
that he never commits the unpardonable sin of laying himself, or rather his partner, a stymie.
Of all the stymies in the world, that which has been laid you by your own partner in a foursome
is the most exasperating.

Of course, for the proper blending of each partner's game with that of the other, it is advisable,
or rather necessary, that before the first stroke in the match is taken there should be some
kind of general understanding about the policy that is to be pursued. First consideration is
given to the turn in which the tee shots are to be taken, and the drives are so arranged that
the better player takes them at a majority of the tees where good drives are most wanted. But
it seems to me that very often an arrangement of this sort is arrived at without sufficient
consideration. For example, it frequently happens that a long-handicap man is a very good driver
indeed, better in fact than the man who is his partner and has a handicap of many strokes less.
And in the same way it commonly occurs that a short-handicap man may be decidedly weak with
his short approaches. On the average of the play from the tee to the hole the senior player
may be fully so much better than the other as the difference in their handicaps suggests, but
it by no means follows that in particular features of the game there is the same difference.
Therefore the wise partners will adapt themselves to each other, so that they will get all
the good out of themselves and leave untouched that which is bad. And when this compact is
completed and honourably adhered to, there are at hand the makings of a victory.

When four players have decided among themselves to play a foursome, and there are wide differences
in their respective handicaps, there is often considerable difficulty in arranging the best
partnerships. It is good to be guided by mutual preferences, for preference means confidence,
and that is everything in foursome play. But at the same time it is always advisable to sort
out the players in such a manner that there is as little as possible of giving and receiving
strokes. For example, where there is a scratch man, two 9's (or a 6 and a 10), and an 18, the
best and most enjoyable match is always likely to result from a combination of the scratch
man with the 18 against the two players of medium handicaps, although the scratch man, if a
selfish player, may not be disposed to saddle himself with the unreliable person at the other
end of the scale. It is a point to be borne in mind that the 18 man, if, despite his handicap,
he is a real and conscientious golfer, is more likely to play above his handicap than the scratch
man. It is much easier for an 18-handicap player to perform like a 12 than it is for a scratch
man to play like a plus 3. In my opinion the arranging of strokes to be given and received
in foursome play is far too delicate and complicated. In ordinary single-match play handicapping
does not always work out very well, and it is often made to look foolish in a foursome. Far
better is it than adding up and dividing by clumsy fractions, and then finding that one party
gets five strokes or eight, that the players should take a broad view of their respective merits,
and then decide that they will either play on level terms or that a third or a half shall be
given and received. The best foursome of all is one played on level terms, and an effort should
always be made, and even a point strained here and there, to effect such partnerships as will
make this arrangement feasible.

A really good foursome, when the partners play harmoniously and the holes are well fought out,
is a splendid diversion from the ordinary game of golf. The interest and excitement of each
member of the party often seems to affect the others, and to lead up to an intense mutual keenness
which is often superior even to that experienced in single play. There is a wholesome satisfaction
in the community of interests. The winning of a hole is coveted as it was never coveted before.
Have you heard what should be a classical story about the foursome? The match was all square
on the sixteenth green, and one excited Scot stood by while his partner made a drive upon which
the fortunes of a hard-fought game might rest. The caddies had been sent forward. The tee shot
was pulled, and the ball went twisting round in the direction of the driver's boy. It struck
him and he fell flat upon the ground. The driving partner dropped his club, and, with his face
turned pale, muttered hoarsely to his friend, "Tonalt, I've kilt the caddie!" But Donald's
mind was fixed upon other matters than the mere question of life and death, and with many excited
gestures and a shriek of despair he exclaimed, "Then, tamn it all, we've lost the hole," as
under Rule 25 they had.

At the end of this chapter I will make the simple remark, that you can pay a golfer no higher
compliment than to say that he is a good foursome player, for such a one must not only be a
good golfer and a steady one, but a man of the serenest and even most delightful temperament.
You must always feel that you could not play in the company of such a man too often, either
with him or against him.

Some people say that golf is not a ladies' game, and from time to time one hears of something
in the nature of dissensions within the family circle when there are wives and sisters anxious
to take up the sport which palpably affords their male relatives one of the greatest enjoyments
of life, and when there are husbands and brothers who, it is said, advance arguments which
for number and ingenuity would do credit to a King's Counsel, designed to show the absurdity
and the futility of the desire expressed. It is a question upon which it would be out of place
for me here to take any side, though it seems to me that there is something to be said for
the complete separation of the men's golf from the ladies' golf, particularly in the case of
large clubs and crowded courses. Golf is essentially a sport of freedom. Restraint of even
the most trivial and conventional character in regard to manners and customs is irksome when
there are holes to be played and tight matches to be pulled out of the fire. I like to see
a lady go out on the golf links in whatever costume she thinks fit to wear for her own comfort
and good play, and generally to do as she likes, as if there were nothing but Nature and a
little white ball and the hole with the flag in it in all the world. I have a great admiration
for the American lady golfer, whom I have several times had the opportunity of studying on
her native tees, and the other day I read the perfectly true story of an American clergyman
making a scathing attack from the pulpit one Sunday upon lady golfers, of whom he numbered
many in his congregation. The reverend gentleman exclaimed that some of the lady members of
his congregation attended divine service in the customary manner on the Sabbath, and then "swore
like troopers" on the golf links on the Monday. The conduct of these ladies was no doubt exaggerated;
but it appears as if it may have been reprehensible. However, it shows the keenness and the
enthusiasm of the American lady golfer; and I am not at all sure that the answer of the English
lady player, when she was asked if those bad words were ever uttered in this country, that
the Englishwoman made fewer bad shots and had no occasion for an extended vocabulary, was entirely
convincing. One hears that the ladies have coined new words for the expression of their disgust
at the results of their strokes, and, on the other hand, that the limits of expletive which
they permit themselves when bunkered consist of the chiding utterance, "Oh, you naughty, naughty
little ball!" However this may be, I know not, and I would only remark, without presumption,
to the ladies, as I have done in another place to their husbands and brothers, that golf is
a game for thought and silence.

Now, I am glad to see so many ladies taking up the game year by year, and thus giving the best
possible answer to the question whether it is a real ladies' game or not. And furthermore,
I am pleased to bear witness that the standard of ladies' golf in this country is improving
every season, so that now it needs a fine man golfer to give a third to the best of the gentler
sex. These good lady players, or some of them, are attiring themselves in these days as I like
to see lady golfers attired, that is to say, there is evidence that they think a trifle less
of fashion and dainty appearance than they do of security, comfort, and freedom of limb and
muscle. But the majority of lady players do not attach the proper amount of importance to these
considerations, and that is why one is sometimes a little doubtful as to the prospects of ladies'
golf generally in this country in comparison with those of American ladies' golf. The American
girls are adopting the game more whole-heartedly and thoroughly than their English sisters,
and their devotion to it will tell. The lady of the States who is a golfer dresses for golf
and for golf only. Very seldom do you see in America a lady golfer wearing a hat, or head covering
of any description. When she has one, it is almost invariably a light tam o'shanter, or something
very small and soft, which clings closely to the hair and does not get in the way of the swing
of the club. She tucks up her sleeves like a man, and in the soles of her shoes she has plenty
of goodly sized nails. And she does not look a tittle the worse for any of these things; indeed,
the picture of the determined, strenuous, and yet charming lady golfer was one of the most
attractive that I saw when in America. The average English girl does not appear willing to
make so many sacrifices for golf as the American. She seems too often to say to herself that
it is only a little game after all, and there is an end of it; and yet she is always desirous
of getting on and reducing her handicap. I need hardly say that this is not the proper spirit
in which to achieve success at golf. We see too many ladies on our links with big hats and
no nails in their shoes. I have no faith whatever in their future as golfers. It is impossible
to play good golf if one is not fitted out properly for the game, whether the player be lady
or man. Few players of our sex would dream of going on to the links in a tightly fitting coat
and smooth-soled shoes. But the ladies are more venturesome.

After this brief lecture on attire, let me at once declare that there are many points about
our English lady golfer that I greatly admire. It has been my privilege to teach the first
principles of the game to many of them, and I am bound to say that for the most part I have
found them excellent pupils--better generally than the men learners. They seem to take closer
and deeper notice of the hints you give them, and to retain the points of the lesson longer
in their memories. They are painstaking; and if she begins to play early enough in her life,
adopts sensible methods, and is possessed of an average amount of athleticism, I can see no
reason why any lady should not become a very fair golfer. Many somewhat spoil their prospects
by concluding too hastily that they must play an altogether different game from that of their
men friends, that they must have special clubs, special methods, and so forth. This is not
the case. No doubt it is well for ladies to admit at once that they cannot drive as far as
the men. But otherwise the man's game and the lady's game are the same in principle and in
practice. As for the manner in which to play, I have not a single special piece of instruction
to offer, and can only refer the lady neophyte to the previous pages, in which I have set forth
as well as I am able the precise method in which each of the many strokes in golf should be
played. I have merely to insist that they shall not deviate from these methods in one or two
special matters in which they are advised or inclined to do.

Ladies are frequently advised that they ought never to take a full swing. Of course in the
foregoing pages I have frequently insisted that a golfer should avoid the absolutely full swing
with all iron clubs, believing that he gets for the most part at least as good results with
a good three-quarter swing. But those people who warn the ladies against the full swing, not
only with their irons but with their wooden clubs also, advise the half swing because they
say it is better for them for physical reasons, and that their results will be practically
as good as if they had taken the three-quarter or the full. Now I am convinced that this is
altogether wrong, and, without encouraging any of my lady readers to the development of a big
swing and a slashing style, I do say that they will do well for themselves and for their golf
if they will train themselves to the making of at least a full three-quarter. I believe that
the half swing entails a severer strain upon the body when made under these circumstances than
the full three-quarter, and that the body does altogether more work than is good for it, while
the delusion is entertained by those who recommend the short swing that the opposite is the
case. In this half swing the body seems to get too much in front of the club and to labour
heavily, while in the three-quarter the arms do most of the work, as they ought to do, and
the body comes in at the proper time for the remainder. Though in previous chapters I have
strongly advised golfers to play a half shot with one club in preference to a full shot with
one more powerful, I only do so obviously when the distance is fixed and the half shot will
reach it. In playing from the tee it is an altogether different matter. In this case the distance
is not fixed. The object is usually to drive as far as possible, so no half shots are wanted here.

As a general rule, ladies make use of clubs that are far too light for them. Frequently they
do so by advice, and then their own instinct suggests to them that they should employ weapons
less weighty than those of their male relations. This would be very sensible and proper if
the clubs which men make use of were the heaviest that they could swing with effect. But a
man only uses a club of a certain weight, because experience has proved that it is the best
and most effectual for its purpose, and usually he has a very great reserve of strength which
could be employed with heavier clubs if necessary. There is no reason at all why ladies should
not employ clubs of good average weight instead of featherweights. By so doing they would spare
themselves a great amount of exertion, and they would certainly get better results, for it
is always much more difficult to get good results with a light club than with one of medium
weight. With the featherweight the swing is very liable to get out of gear. It is cut short,
and is apt to wander out of its proper direction. There is, in fact, no such control over the
club as there is when one can feel the weight of the head at the end of the shaft. A lady may
require clubs a trifle shorter in the shaft, but this is the only difference which need exist,
and it is not of itself sufficient to make any perceptible difference in the weight.

So far as I have discovered, ladies have no special faults or weaknesses of their own, as distinct
from other players, but I have found them more than usually addicted to inaccuracy in the backward
swing, causing the toe of the club to be pointing upwards instead of downwards at the turning-point.
This is the result of wrong action and loss of control over the wrists, and a study of my remarks
on driving, where this matter is specially dealt with, should do much to obviate it. It is
possible, however, that the lady's inferior strength of wrist, as compared with a man's, may
have much to do with the fault, but even in that case it only needs caution and care to bring
about a cure. I should say that fully three ladies out of every five whose play I have watched
make this mistake, and it is a fault which has very serious consequences. I should advise all
of them to make a periodical examination of the position of the club head at the top of the
swing, as I indicated when discussing the drive, and if they find the toe is upwards they must
make up their minds to get rid of this bad habit at any cost. If it has already become a part
of the player's system, it will not be abolished without considerable difficulty. To begin
with, she would try swinging back more slowly, as a too rapid backward swing has often much
to do with it.

Finally, I would suggest that any lady who aspires to be a really good golfer should take numerous
lessons from those players superior to herself who are qualified to give them. I have already
said that I have found ladies exceedingly good pupils, and when they set about learning the
game in the right way, they often make really astonishing progress. But it must be confessed
that in too many cases they do not treat the difficulties of the game with sufficient seriousness,
and are inclined to think that they can get on best in their own way and by the adoption of
their own methods. When once a lady has been given a couple of lessons in the swing for the
drive, she often insists on finding out the rest for herself, and then a bad result is inevitable.
All the practice and patience in the world will not make a good lady golfer if she does not
learn the game in the right way. The simple fact is that, when a man sets about the game he
admits its difficulties from the beginning, and goes about surmounting them in the right manner
if he is really ambitious and covetous of a short handicap. But it often seems that ladies
will not admit these difficulties, and persist in their attempt to make golfers of themselves
unaided. Perhaps that is one reason why ladies do not always continue with the game with that
increasing eagerness and enthusiasm which is an almost invariable characteristic of the man
golfer. Learn properly, and practise much; and--well, yes, do the rest like a man, and not
as if there were a special woman's way. That is the essence of my counsel to the lady aspirant
on the links.

