For the preceding ten years it had been her aim indirectly to prepare the little Claude for
the separation which she knew must one day come. Believing that the less she had accustomed
him to external demonstrations of affection, the less also he would miss her presence and feel
her loss, she had made it a rule from the time he was two years old, never to fondle or embrace
him, carrying self-denial in this particular so far as to discourage even his, own childish
caresses and endearments. Yet though grave, he found her ever kind and gentle; though reserved,
sweet-tempered and inaccessible to caprice; though undemonstrative, solidly devoted to his
interests and tenderly alive to his wants; so it happened after all that he loved her fondly,
and all the more so, perhaps, that unknown to himself, his love was founded on reverence.

How shall the mother summon courage to bid him adieu? Where find words to say that although
he should ever dwell in her heart, her home and his could be one no longer? That, already deprived
by death of one parent, he was now by her own voluntary act to lose the second too? Poor mother!
great is thy sorrow, yet not as that of another Martyr-Mother, whose story of anguish thou
knowest well. It was at the foot of the cross that she bade adieu to her Son; there, too, must
thou bravely stand by her side to say farewell to thine. The virtue of the cross will strengthen
thee as it strengthened her; and when thy sacrifice is accomplished, thou wilt find a balm
for thy wounded heart by uniting it to the broken heart of Jesus on the cross, and of Mary
standing in its shade.

Summoning the boy to her side, she said, "My son, I have a great secret to tell you. I have
hitherto concealed it, because you were not old enough to understand its importance, but now
that you are becoming more sensible, and that I am on the point of taking the step to which
this great secret refers, I can no longer hesitate to confide it to you. When your father was
taken from us, God immediately inspired me with the resolution of forsaking the world and embracing
the religious life. I could not carry out this intention at once, for you were too young to
dispense with my care, but now that this is no longer the case, I must follow the call of God
without farther delay. I might have gone away without forewarning you, for when salvation is
in question, as in the present instance, God's command must absolutely be obeyed, but to spare
you a painful shock, I determined to tell you my plans, and ask your consent to their accomplishment.
God wishes this parting, my son, and if we love Him we must wish it too. If this separation
afflicts you, think of the great honour which the Almighty does me in calling me to His service.
Remember too what a happiness it will be for you to know henceforth that your mother is occupied
day and night in praying for your salvation. This being so, will you not give me leave to obey
God, who commands me to go away?"

Awed and bewildered by the solemnity of the address, the child could only say, "But I shall
never see you again?"

"Not so, my son," replied the courageous mother; "on the contrary, you will see me whenever
you like; I am only going to the Ursulines, who you know live quite close, and you can come
to me there as often as you please."

"In that case," he said, "I am satisfied."

An oppressive weight seemed to have been taken from the mother's heart; now she could breathe
freely. "I should have found it very hard to part from you, my child," she said, "if you had
refused, because I do not like to give you pain, but as you are contented, I shall leave you
tranquilly in the hands of God. I bequeath to you no worldly wealth, for as the Lord is my
inheritance, so do I desire that He should be yours. If you fear and love Him, you will be
rich enough. I entrust you to a heavenly Mother who will amply make up to you for my loss,
for her power to serve you is far greater than mine. Love that dear Mother, the Blessed Virgin
Mary; be faithful to her; call on her as your Mother; turn to her in all your wants, reminding
her that you are her child, and that she is bound to take care of your interests, and be sure
that she will never forsake you. I have placed you in the charge of my sister, who has promised
me to love you and watch over you. Show her always the same affection and respect as you have
shown me. Serve God faithfully; keep his commandments; love Him, and He will love you and provide
for you in whatever position you may be placed. Adieu, my son." Then she directed him to kneel
at her feet, and repressing every appearance of emotion, calmly made the sign of the cross
on his forehead, and gave him her solemn blessing. It was the last caress and the last farewell
of this heroic woman to her only child; henceforth he was to be the child of providence, and
she was to be as if his mother no more. God, jealous of her undivided love, would admit no
rival in her heart; over that, He designed to reign sole Sovereign.

This most painful scene over, the remaining trials seemed easy to bear. She bade adieu to her
weeping relatives, and even to her aged father, without betraying a symptom of the agony which
rent her soul, and then, on the 25th of January, the feast of the conversion of St. Paul, in
the year 1631, she left her sister's house, accompanied by numerous friends. The little procession
was headed by her niece whom she had asked to precede her with a crucifix, the standard which
she had ever so faithfully followed, and to which she was now proving the truth of her allegiance
by the severing of every human tie, and the sacrifice of every human feeling. At her side walked
her little son, silent and tearful, but quiet and resigned. She alone of the whole party manifested
no agitation; her step was firm; her demeanour calm, her countenance beaming as if with light
from heaven. Yet the superhuman victory was not achieved without mortal anguish; every tear
of the weeping child at her side made her heart bleed afresh; every sob seemed to lacerate
her soul, but she says, in alluding afterwards to her emotions on the occasion, "Much as I
loved my son, I loved my God far more."

At the door of the monastery, she smilingly repeated her farewell to the child and the rest
of the party, and a moment after, was joyfully and lovingly welcomed by the Mother Superior
of the Ursuline Convent.

CHAPTER IX.

SAINT ANGELA AND THE URSULINES.

