The horror of the spectacle, the ignorance of all around how this misfortune had happened,
and above all, the tremendous phenomenon before him, took away the Prince's speech.  Yet his
silence lasted longer than even grief could occasion.  He fixed his eyes on what he wished
in vain to believe a vision; and seemed less attentive to his loss, than buried in meditation
on the stupendous object that had occasioned it.  He touched, he examined the fatal casque;
nor could even the bleeding mangled remains of the young Prince divert the eyes of Manfred
from the portent before him.

All who had known his partial fondness for young Conrad, were as much surprised at their Prince's
insensibility, as thunderstruck themselves at the miracle of the helmet.  They conveyed the
disfigured corpse into the hall, without receiving the least direction from Manfred.  As little
was he attentive to the ladies who remained in the chapel.  On the contrary, without mentioning
the unhappy princesses, his wife and daughter, the first sounds that dropped from Manfred's
lips were, "Take care of the Lady Isabella."

The domestics, without observing the singularity of this direction, were guided by their affection
to their mistress, to consider it as peculiarly addressed to her situation, and flew to her
assistance. They conveyed her to her chamber more dead than alive, and indifferent to all the
strange circumstances she heard, except the death of her son.

Matilda, who doted on her mother, smothered her own grief and amazement, and thought of nothing
but assisting and comforting her afflicted parent.  Isabella, who had been treated by Hippolita
like a daughter, and who returned that tenderness with equal duty and affection, was scarce
less assiduous about the Princess; at the same time endeavouring to partake and lessen the
weight of sorrow which she saw Matilda strove to suppress, for whom she had conceived the warmest
sympathy of friendship.  Yet her own situation could not help finding its place in her thoughts.
She felt no concern for the death of young Conrad, except commiseration; and she was not sorry
to be delivered from a marriage which had promised her little felicity, either from her destined
bridegroom, or from the severe temper of Manfred, who, though he had distinguished her by great
indulgence, had imprinted her mind with terror, from his causeless rigour to such amiable princesses
as Hippolita and Matilda.

While the ladies were conveying the wretched mother to her bed, Manfred remained in the court,
gazing on the ominous casque, and regardless of the crowd which the strangeness of the event
had now assembled around him.  The few words he articulated, tended solely to inquiries, whether
any man knew from whence it could have come? Nobody could give him the least information. 
However, as it seemed to be the sole object of his curiosity, it soon became so to the rest
of the spectators, whose conjectures were as absurd and improbable, as the catastrophe itself
was unprecedented.  In the midst of their senseless guesses, a young peasant, whom rumour had
drawn thither from a neighbouring village, observed that the miraculous helmet was exactly
like that on the figure in black marble of Alfonso the Good, one of their former princes, in
the church of St. Nicholas.

"Villain!  What sayest thou?" cried Manfred, starting from his trance in a tempest of rage,
and seizing the young man by the collar; "how darest thou utter such treason?  Thy life shall
pay for it."

The spectators, who as little comprehended the cause of the Prince's fury as all the rest they
had seen, were at a loss to unravel this new circumstance.  The young peasant himself was still
more astonished, not conceiving how he had offended the Prince. Yet recollecting himself, with
a mixture of grace and humility, he disengaged himself from Manfred's grip, and then with an
obeisance, which discovered more jealousy of innocence than dismay, he asked, with respect,
of what he was guilty?  Manfred, more enraged at the vigour, however decently exerted, with
which the young man had shaken off his hold, than appeased by his submission, ordered his attendants
to seize him, and, if he had not been withheld by his friends whom he had invited to the nuptials,
would have poignarded the peasant in their arms.

During this altercation, some of the vulgar spectators had run to the great church, which stood
near the castle, and came back open- mouthed, declaring that the helmet was missing from Alfonso's
statue.  Manfred, at this news, grew perfectly frantic; and, as if he sought a subject on which
to vent the tempest within him, he rushed again on the young peasant, crying -

"Villain! Monster! Sorcerer! 'tis thou hast done this! 'tis thou hast slain my son!"

The mob, who wanted some object within the scope of their capacities, on whom they might discharge
their bewildered reasoning, caught the words from the mouth of their lord, and re- echoed -

"Ay, ay; 'tis he, 'tis he:  he has stolen the helmet from good Alfonso's tomb, and dashed out
the brains of our young Prince with it," never reflecting how enormous the disproportion was
between the marble helmet that had been in the church, and that of steel before their eyes;
nor how impossible it was for a youth seemingly not twenty, to wield a piece of armour of so
prodigious a weight

The folly of these ejaculations brought Manfred to himself:  yet whether provoked at the peasant
having observed the resemblance between the two helmets, and thereby led to the farther discovery
of the absence of that in the church, or wishing to bury any such rumour under so impertinent
a supposition, he gravely pronounced that the young man was certainly a necromancer, and that
till the Church could take cognisance of the affair, he would have the Magician, whom they
had thus detected, kept prisoner under the helmet itself, which he ordered his attendants to
raise, and place the young man under it; declaring he should be kept there without food, with
which his own infernal art might furnish him.

It was in vain for the youth to represent against this preposterous sentence:  in vain did
Manfred's friends endeavour to divert him from this savage and ill-grounded resolution.  The
generality were charmed with their lord's decision, which, to their apprehensions, carried
great appearance of justice, as the Magician was to be punished by the very instrument with
which he had offended:  nor were they struck with the least compunction at the probability
of the youth being starved, for they firmly believed that, by his diabolic skill, he could
easily supply himself with nutriment.

Manfred thus saw his commands even cheerfully obeyed; and appointing a guard with strict orders
to prevent any food being conveyed to the prisoner, he dismissed his friends and attendants,
and retired to his own chamber, after locking the gates of the castle, in which he suffered
none but his domestics to remain.

In the meantime, the care and zeal of the young Ladies had brought the Princess Hippolita to
herself, who amidst the transports of her own sorrow frequently demanded news of her lord,
would have dismissed her attendants to watch over him, and at last enjoined Matilda to leave
her, and visit and comfort her father.  Matilda, who wanted no affectionate duty to Manfred,
though she trembled at his austerity, obeyed the orders of Hippolita, whom she tenderly recommended
to Isabella; and inquiring of the domestics for her father, was informed that he was retired
to his chamber, and had commanded that nobody should have admittance to him.  Concluding that
he was immersed in sorrow for the death of her brother, and fearing to renew his tears by the
sight of his sole remaining child, she hesitated whether she should break in upon his affliction;
yet solicitude for him, backed by the commands of her mother, encouraged her to venture disobeying
the orders he had given; a fault she had never been guilty of before.

The gentle timidity of her nature made her pause for some minutes at his door.  She heard him
traverse his chamber backwards, and forwards with disordered steps; a mood which increased
her apprehensions.  She was, however, just going to beg admittance, when Manfred suddenly opened
the door; and as it was now twilight, concurring with the disorder of his mind, he did not
distinguish the person, but asked angrily, who it was?  Matilda replied, trembling -

"My dearest father, it is I, your daughter."

Manfred, stepping back hastily, cried, "Begone!  I do not want a daughter;" and flinging back
abruptly, clapped the door against the terrified Matilda.

She was too well acquainted with her father's impetuosity to venture a second intrusion.  When
she had a little recovered the shock of so bitter a reception, she wiped away her tears to
prevent the additional stab that the knowledge of it would give to Hippolita, who questioned
her in the most anxious terms on the health of Manfred, and how he bore his loss.  Matilda
assured her he was well, and supported his misfortune with manly fortitude.

"But will he not let me see him?" said Hippolita mournfully; "will he not permit me to blend
my tears with his, and shed a mother's sorrows in the bosom of her Lord?  Or do you deceive
me, Matilda? I know how Manfred doted on his son:  is not the stroke too heavy for him? has
he not sunk under it?  You do not answer me--alas! I dread the worst!--Raise me, my maidens;
I will, I will see my Lord. Bear me to him instantly:  he is dearer to me even than my children."

Matilda made signs to Isabella to prevent Hippolita's rising; and both those lovely young women
were using their gentle violence to stop and calm the Princess, when a servant, on the part
of Manfred, arrived and told Isabella that his Lord demanded to speak with her.

"With me!" cried Isabella.

"Go," said Hippolita, relieved by a message from her Lord: "Manfred cannot support the sight
of his own family.  He thinks you less disordered than we are, and dreads the shock of my grief.
Console him, dear Isabella, and tell him I will smother my own anguish rather than add to his."

As it was now evening the servant who conducted Isabella bore a torch before her.  When they
came to Manfred, who was walking impatiently about the gallery, he started, and said hastily -

"Take away that light, and begone."

Then shutting the door impetuously, he flung himself upon a bench against the wall, and bade
Isabella sit by him.  She obeyed trembling.

"I sent for you, Lady," said he--and then stopped under great appearance of confusion.

"My Lord!"

"Yes, I sent for you on a matter of great moment," resumed he. "Dry your tears, young Lady--you
have lost your bridegroom.  Yes, cruel fate! and I have lost the hopes of my race!  But Conrad
was not worthy of your beauty."

"How, my Lord!" said Isabella; "sure you do not suspect me of not feeling the concern I ought:
my duty and affection would have always--"

"Think no more of him," interrupted Manfred; "he was a sickly, puny child, and Heaven has perhaps
taken him away, that I might not trust the honours of my house on so frail a foundation.  The
line of Manfred calls for numerous supports.  My foolish fondness for that boy blinded the
eyes of my prudence--but it is better as it is.  I hope, in a few years, to have reason to
rejoice at the death of Conrad."

