No one will pretend that this was the action of a sane man; neither will any one wonder that
Columbus was something less than sane after all he had gone through, and with the beginnings
of a serious illness already in his blood.  His achievement was slipping from his grasp; the
gold had not been found, the wonders of the East had not been discovered; and it was his instinct
to secure something from the general wreck that seemed to be falling about him, and to force
his own dreams to come true, that caused him to cut this grim and fantastic legal caper off
the coast of Cuba.  He thought it at the time unlikely, seeing the difficulties of navigation
that he had gone through, which he might be pardoned for regarding as insuperable to a less
skilful mariner, that any one should ever come that way again; even he himself said that he
would never risk his life again in such a place.  He wished his journey, therefore, not to
have been made in vain; and as he himself believed that he had stood on the mainland of Asia
he took care to take back with him the only kind of evidence that was possible namely, the
sworn affidavits of the ships' crews.

Perhaps in his madness he would really have gone on and tried to reach the Golden Chersonesus
of Ptolemy, which according to Marco Polo lay just beyond, and so to steer homeward round Ceylon
and the Cape of Good Hope; in which case he would either have been lost or would have discovered
Mexico.  The crews, however, would not hear of the voyage being continued westward.  The ships
were leaking and the salt water was spoiling the already doubtful provisions and he was forced
to turn back.  He stood to the south-east, and reached the Isle of Pines, to which he gave
the name of Evangelista, where the water-casks were filled, and from there he tried to sail
back to the east.  But he found himself surrounded by islands and banks in every direction,
which made any straight course impossible.  He sailed south and east and west and north, and
found himself always back again in the middle of this charmed group of islands. He spent almost
a month trying to escape from them, and once his ship went ashore on a sandbank and was only
warped off with the greatest difficulty.  On July 7th he was back again in the region of the
"Queen's Gardens," from which he stood across to the coast of Cuba.

He anchored and landed there, and being in great distress and difficulty he had a large cross
erected on the mainland, and had mass said.  When the Spaniards rose from their knees they
saw an old native man observing them; and the old man came and sat down beside Columbus and
talked to him through the interpreter.  He told him that he had been in Jamaica and Espanola
as well as in Cuba, and that the coming of the Spaniards had caused great distress to the people
of the islands.

He then spoke to Columbus about religion, and the gist of what he said was something like this:
"The performance of your worship seems good to me.  You believe that this life is not everything;
so do we; and I know that when this life is over there are two places reserved for me, to one
of which I shall certainly go; one happy and beautiful, one dreadful and miserable.  Joy and
kindness reign in the one place, which is good enough for the best of men; and they will go
there who while they have lived on the earth have loved peace and goodness, and who have never
robbed or killed or been unkind.  The other place is evil and full of shadows, and is reserved
for those who disturb and hurt the sons of men; how important it is, therefore, that one should
do no evil or injury in this world!"

Columbus replied with a brief statement of his own theological views, and added that he had
been sent to find out if there were any persons in those islands who did evil to others, such
as the Caribs or cannibals, and that if so he had come to punish them.  The effect of this
ingenuous speech was heightened by a gift of hawks' bells and pieces of broken glass; upon
receiving which the good old man fell down on his knees, and said that the Spaniards must surely
have come from heaven.

A few days later the voyage to the, south-east was resumed, and some progress was made along
the coast.  But contrary winds arose which made it impossible for the ships to round Cape Cruz,
and Columbus decided to employ the time of waiting in completing his explorations in Jamaica.
He therefore sailed due south until he once more sighted the beautiful northern coast of that
island, following it to the west and landing, as his custom was, whenever he saw a good harbour
or anchorage.  The wind was still from the east, and he spent a month beating to the eastward
along the south coast of the island, fascinated by its beauty, and willing to stay and explore
it, but prevented by the discontent of his crews, who were only anxious to get back to Espanola.
He had friendly interviews with many of the natives of Jamaica, and at almost the last harbour
at which he touched a cacique with his wife and family and complete retinue came off in canoes
to the ship, begging Columbus to take him and his household back to Spain.

Columbus considers this family, and thinks wistfully how well they would look in Barcelona.
Father dressed in a cap of gold and green jewels, necklace and earrings of the same; mother
decked out in similar regalia, with the addition of a small cotton apron; two sons and five
brothers dressed principally in a feather or two; two daughters mother-naked, except that the
elder, a handsome girl of eighteen, wears a jewelled girdle from which depends a tablet as
big as an ivy leaf, made of various coloured stones embroidered on cotton.  What an exhibit
for one of the triumphal processions: "Native royal family, complete"!  But Columbus thinks
also of the scarcity of provisions on board his ships, and wonders how all these royalties
would like to live on a pint of sour wine and a rotten biscuit each per day.  Alas! there is
not sour wine and rotten biscuit enough for his own people; it is still a long way to Espanola;
and he is obliged to make polite excuses, and to say that he will come back for his majesty
another time.

It was on the 20th of August that Columbus, having the day before seen the last of the dim
blue hills of Jamaica, sighted again the long peninsula of Hayti, called by him Cape San Miguel,
but known to us as Cape Tiburon; although it was not until he was hailed by a cacique who called
out to him "Almirante, Almirante," that the seaworn mariners realised with joy that the island
must be Espanola.  But they were a long way from Isabella yet.  They sailed along the south
coast, meeting contrary winds, and at one point landing nine men who were to cross the island,
and try to reach Isabella by land.  Week followed week, and they made very poor progress. 
In the beginning of September they were caught in a severe tempest, which separated the ships
for a time, and held the Admiral weather-bound for eight days.  There was an eclipse of the
moon during this period, and he took advantage of it to make an observation for longitude,
by which he found himself to be 5 hrs. 23 min., or 80 deg. 40', west of Cadiz.  In this observation
there is an error of eighteen degrees, the true longitude of the island of Saona, where the
observation was taken, being 62 deg. 20' west of Cadiz; and the error is accounted for partly
by the inaccuracy of the tables of Regiomontanus and partly by the crudity and inexactness
of the Admiral's methods.  On the 24th of September they at last reached the easternmost point
of Espanola, named by Columbus San Rafael.  They stood to the east a little longer, and discovered
the little island of Mona, which lies between Espanola and Puerto Rico; and from thence shaped
their course west-by-north for Isabella.  And no sooner had the course been set for home than
the Admiral suddenly and completely collapsed; was carried unconscious to his cabin; and lay
there in such extremity that his companions gave him up for lost.

It is no ordinary strain to which poor Christopher has succumbed.  He has been five months
at sea, sharing with the common sailors their bad food and weary vigils, but bearing alone
on his own shoulders a weight of anxiety of which they knew nothing.  Watch has relieved watch
on his ships, but there has been no one to relieve him, or to lift the burden from his mind.
The eyes of a nation are upon him, watchful and jealous eyes that will not forgive him any
failure; and to earn their approval he has taken this voyage of five months, during which he
has only been able to forget his troubles in the brief hours of slumber.  Strange uncharted
seas, treacherous winds and currents, drenching surges have all done their part in bringing
him to this pass; and his body, now starved on rotten biscuits, now glutted with unfamiliar
fruits, has been preyed upon by the tortured mind as the mind itself has been shaken and loosened
by the weakness of the body.  He lies there in his cabin in a deep stupor; memory, sight, and
all sensation completely gone from him; dead but for the heart that beats on faintly, and the
breath that comes and goes through the parted lips.  Nino, de la Cosa, and the others come
and look at him, shake their heads, and go away again.  There is nothing to be done; perhaps
they will get him back to Isabella in time to bury him there; perhaps not.

And meanwhile they are back again in calm and safe waters, and coasting a familiar shore; and
the faithful little Nina, shaking out her wings in the sunny breezes, trips under the guidance
of unfamiliar hands towards her moorings in the Bay of Isabella.  It is a sad company that
she carries; for in the cabin, deaf and blind and unconscious, there lies the heart and guiding
spirit of the New World.  He does not hear the talking of the waters past the Nina's timbers,
does not hear the stamping on the deck and shortening of sail and unstopping of cables and
getting out of gear; does not hear the splash of the anchor, nor the screams of birds that
rise circling from the shore.  Does not hear the greetings and the news; does not see bending
over him a kind, helpful, and well-beloved face.  He sees and hears and knows nothing; and
in that state of rest and absence from the body they carry him, still living and breathing, ashore.

CHAPTER II

THE CONQUEST OF ESPANOLA

We must now go back to the time when Columbus, having made what arrangements he could for the
safety of Espanola, left it under the charge of his brother James.  Ojeda had duly marched
into the interior and taken over the command of Fort St. Thomas, thus setting free Margarite,
according to his instructions, to lead an expedition for purposes of reconnoitre and demonstration
through the island.  These, at any rate, were Margarite's orders, duly communicated to him
by Ojeda; but Margarite will have none of them.  Well born, well educated, well bred, he ought
at least to have the spirit to carry out orders so agreeable to a gentleman of adventure; but
unfortunately, although Margarite is a gentleman by birth, he is a low and dishonest dog by
nature.  He cannot take the decent course, cannot even play the man, and take his share in
the military work of the colony.  Instead of cutting paths through the forest, and exhibiting
his military strength in an orderly and proper way as the Admiral intended he should, he marches
forth from St. Thomas, on hearing that Columbus has sailed away, and encamps no further off
than the Vega Real, that pleasant place of green valleys and groves and murmuring rivers. 
He encamps there, takes up his quarters there, will not budge from there for any Admiral; and
as for James Columbus and his counsellors, they may go to the devil for all Margarite cares.
One of them at least, he knows--Friar Buil--is not such a fool as to sit down under the command
of that solemn-faced, uncouth young snip from Genoa; and doubtless when he is tired of the
Vega Real he and Buil can arrange something between them.  In the meantime, here is a very
beautiful sunshiny place, abounding in all kinds of provisions; food for more than one kind
of appetite, as he has noticed when he has thrust his rude way into the native houses and seen
the shapely daughters of the islanders. He has a little army of soldiers to forage for him;
they can get him food and gold, and they are useful also in those other marauding expeditions
designed to replenish the seraglio that he has established in his camp; and if they like to
do a little marauding and woman-stealing on their own account, it is no affair of his, and
may keep the devils in a good temper.  Thus Don Pedro Margarite to himself.

The peaceable and gentle natives soon began to resent these gross doings. To robbery succeeded
outrage, and to outrage murder--all three committed in the very houses of the natives; and
they began to murmur, to withhold that goodwill which the Spaniards had so sorely tried, and
to develop a threatening attitude that was soon communicated to the natives in the vicinity
of Isabella, and came under the notice of James Columbus and his council.  Grave, bookish,
wool-weaving young James, not used to military affairs, and not at all comfortable in his command,
can think of no other expedient than--to write a letter to Margarite remonstrating with him
for his licentious excesses and reminding him of the Admiral's instructions, which were being
neglected.

Margarite receives the letter and reads it with a contemptuous laugh.  He is not going to be
ordered about by a family of Italian wool-weavers, and the only change in his conduct is that
he becomes more and more careless and impudent, extending the area of his lawless operations,
and making frequent visits to Isabella itself, swaggering under the very nose of solemn James,
and soon deep in consultation with Friar Buil.

