She echoed his laughter with quick delight. "Did you see that? Did you see those great doors
open to let you in, and then close again behind you as if to shut the world outside? But of
course you would. Any one who could do that"--she pointed to the canvas--"would not fail to
see the canyon gates." With her eyes again upon the picture, she seemed once more to forget
the presence of the painter.

Watching her face,--that betrayed her every passing thought and emotion as an untroubled pool
mirrors the flowers that grow on its banks or the song-bird that pauses to drink,--the artist--to
change her mood--said, "You love the mountains, don't you?"

She turned her face toward him, again, as she answered simply, "Yes, I love the mountains."

"If you were a painter,"--he smiled,--"you would paint them, wouldn't you?"

"I don't know that I would,"--she answered thoughtfully,--"but I would try to get the mountains
into my picture, whatever it was. The Battery, too, has its frequenters, and the piers and docks at
night are crowded with them.

This life they pursue until they engage regularly in a life of shame, by becoming regular boarders
in some one of the many dives in the cellars of Chatham street, the
houses of prostitution in Forsyth, Hester, Canal, Bayard and other
streets.

Or, again, they may be found in the various pretty-waiter-girl saloons of the Bowery, or such notorious
resorts as Hilly McGlory's, Owney Geoghegan's, and so on. The public parks, however, are favorite
places, and they may be found even in Union Square and Madison Square, and sometimes in Central
Park. They enjoy themselves, too, for they are often seen on picnics in summer and at balls during the
winter. They have their favorites among the opposite sex, too, just
as have more favored and aristocratic females.

For the love of one of these little girls-- Mary Maguire-- a member of the notorious Mackerelville
gang met a tragic end, at the hands of a jealous rival in City Hall park, by being stabbed
to death. Little Mary was only fourteen years of age.

She was afterwards sent to the House of the Good Shepherd.

Newsboys are largely responsible for leading girls of this class into
the tempting paths of vice.

In purchasing their papers at the newspaper offices, generally in cellars, they are subjected
to many indignities and familiarities, which, at first resented,
are gradually accepted as a matter of course.

Once the descent is begun, the journey is completed by outsiders,
until the girls become corrupt and unscrupulous, with a knowledge
of the ways of the world that would surprise many a matronly head.

In many cases, girls of five and six years are sent out as decoys by the larger ones to "rope
in" customers; for detectives and agents of the various societies, on the lookout for depraved girls,
teach those young Messalinas caution.

When one of these smaller girls has secured a customer she pilots the way to the place where the
larger ones are to be found.

In one instance this was a cellar, under ground, not fifty feet from the corner of Chatham
and William streets; outwardly an oyster saloon, but a door opened
in a wooden partition, through which one entered another room, and
in which, at one time, there were actually no less than nine small
girls, ranging in age from ten to sixteen years.

There are a few places where these girls resort in the day-time and
remain all day, and where they are visited by regular frequenters
of the houses.

Here, also, may be found those young girls who, leaving home in the
morning and telling their parents they are going to work, remain all
day; returning home again in the evening with, perhaps, a couple of
dollars in their pockets, and at the end of the week hand their parents
what the old people innocently suppose is the week's wages of their
daughters, honestly obtained.

There are old-time procuresses, who, having once been news-girls themselves,
know just how to proceed to capture recruits for Hester street boarding-houses,
and they obtain them, too, from the ranks mentioned.

Parents that drive their children in the streets to get money, and
beat them if they fail to fetch it home, are generally sure to either
make prostitutes of their little ones or have them run away entirely,
particularly when a tempting offer is made them by male or female.

There are thousands of men in this city, as well as there are in London, who employ procuresses,
whose efforts and operations, unfortunately, are not confined to
news-girls, but include the pretty daughters of well-to-do mechanics
and trades people.

Many of these girls become closely identified with the lives of Chinamen,
and it is astonishing how fond some of these girls become of their
almond-eyed protectors.

Should any observant individual pass through Elizabeth, Bleecker,
Canal, Hester, Bayard, Dover, Pell, Mott, Baxter, Rose, Chambers streets,
and the other localities mentioned, at night, he will see what becomes
of the pretty news-girls.

But there are instances in which they have obtained work in various
factories and wholesale houses and remained respectable.

Thus far, the news-girl. Dressed in soft brown, with short skirts and high laced boots,
and her wavy hair tucked under a wide, felt hat; with her blue eyes shining with fun, and her
warmly tinted skin glowing with healthful exercise; she appeared--to the artist--more as some
mythical spirit of the mountains, than as a maiden of flesh and blood. The manner of her coming,
too, heightened the impression. He had heard no sound of her approach--no step, no rustle of
the underbrush. He had seen no movement among the bushes--no parting of the willows in the
wall of green. There had been no hint of her nearness. He could not even guess the direction
from which she had come.

At first, he could scarce believe his eyes, and sat motionless in his surprise. Then her merry
laugh rang out--breaking the spell.

Springing from his seat, he went forward. "Are you a spirit?" he cried. "You must be something
unreal, you know--the way you appear and disappear. The last time, you came out of the music
of the waters, and went again the same way. To-day, you come out of the air, or the trees,
or, perhaps, that gray boulder that is giving me such trouble."

Laughing, she answered, "My father and Brian Oakley taught me. If you will watch the wild things
in the woods, you can learn to do it too. I am no more a spirit than the cougar, when it stalks
a rabbit in the chaparral; or a mink, as it slips among the rocks along the creek; or a fawn,
when it crouches to hide in the underbrush."

"You have been fishing?" he asked.

She laughed mockingly, "You are so observing! I think you might have taken that for granted,
and asked what luck."

"I believe I might almost take that for granted too," he returned.

"I took a few," she said carelessly. Then, with a charming air of authority--"And now, you
must go back to your work. I shall vanish instantly, if you waste another moment's time because
I am here."

"But I want to talk," he protested. "I have been working hard since noon."

"Of course you have," she retorted. "But presently the light will change again, and you won't
be able to do any more to-day; so you must keep busy while you can."

"And you won't vanish--if I go on with my work?" he asked doubtfully. She was smiling at him
with such a mischievous air, that he feared, if he turned away, she would disappear.

She laughed aloud; "Not if you work," she said. "But if you stop--I'm gone."

As she spoke, she went toward his easel, and, resting her fly rod carefully against the trunk
of a near-by alder, slipped the creel from her shoulder, placing the basket on the ground with
her hat. Then, while the painter watched her, she stood silently looking at the picture. Presently,
she faced him, and, with an impulsive stamp of her foot, said, "Why don't you work? How can
you waste your time and this light, looking at me? I shall go, if you don't come back to your
picture, this minute."

With a laugh, he obeyed.

For a moment, she watched him; then turned away; and he heard her moving about, down by the
tiny stream, where it disappeared under the willows.

Once, he paused and turned to look in her direction "What are you up to, now?" he said.

"I shall be up to leaving you,"--she retorted,--"if you look around, again."

He promptly turned once more to his picture.

Soon, she came back, and seated herself beside her creel and rod, where she could see the picture
under the artist's brush. "Does it bother, if I watch?" she asked softly.

"No, indeed," he answered. "It helps--that is, it helps when it is you who watch." Which--to
the painter's secret amazement--was a literal truth. The gray rock with the splash of sunshine
that would not come right, ceased to trouble him, now. Stimulated by her presence, he worked
with a freedom and a sureness that was a delight.

When he could not refrain from looking in her direction, he saw that she was bending, with
busy hands, over some willow twigs in her lap. "What in the world are you doing?" he asked
curiously.

"You are not supposed to know that I am doing anything," she retorted. "You have been peeking
again."

"You were so still--I feared you had vanished," he laughed. "If you'll keep talking to me,
I'll know you are there, and will be good."

"Sure it won't bother?"

"Sure," he answered.

"Well, then, you talk to me, and I'll answer."

"I have a confession to make," he said, carefully studying the gray tones of the alder trunk
beyond the gray boulder.

"A confession?"

"Yes, I want to get it over--so it won't bother me."

"Something about me?"

"Yes."

"Why, that's what I am trying so hard to make you keep your eyes on your work for--because
I have to make a confession to you."

"To me?"

"Yes--don't look around, please."

"But what under the sun can you have to confess to me?"

"You started yours first," she answered. "Go on. Maybe it will make it easier for me."

Studiously keeping his eyes upon his canvas, he told her how he had watched her from the cedar
thicket. When he had finished,--and she was silent,--he thought that she was angry, and turned
about--expecting to see her gathering up her things to go.

She was struggling to suppress her laughter. At the look of surprise on his face, she burst
forth in such a gale of merriment that the little glade was filled with the music of her glee;
while, in spite of himself, the painter joined. 

[Sidenote: Battle of Trenton.]{ December 26.} General Washington accompanied
the upper column, and arriving at the out-post on that road, precisely
at eight, drove it in, and, in three minutes, heard the fire from
the column which had taken the river road.

The picket guard attempted to keep up a fire while retreating, but
was pursued with such ardour as to be unable to make a stand.

Colonel Rawle, who commanded in the town, paraded his men, and met the
assailants. In the commencement of the action, he was mortally wounded,
upon which the troops, in apparent confusion, attempted to gain the
road to Princeton.

General Washington threw a detachment into their front, while he advanced
rapidly on them in person.

Finding themselves surrounded, and their artillery already seized, they laid down their arms, and surrendered
themselves prisoners of war. About twenty of the enemy were killed, and about one thousand made
prisoners. Six field pieces, and a thousand stand of small arms were also taken. On the part
of the Americans, two privates were killed; two frozen to death; and one officer, Lieutenant Monroe, [50]
of the third Virginia regiment, and three or four privates wounded.
[Footnote 50: Since President of the United States.] Unfortunately,
the ice rendered it impracticable for General Irvine to execute that
part of the plan which was allotted to him.

With his utmost efforts, he was unable to cross the river; and the road towards Bordentown remained
open. About five hundred men, among whom was a troop of cavalry, stationed in the lower end of
Trenton, availed themselves of this circumstance, and crossing the bridge in the commencement of
the action, escaped down the river.

The same cause prevented General Cadwallader from attacking the post
at Mount Holly.

With great difficulty a part of his infantry passed the river, but
returned on its being found absolutely impracticable to cross with
the artillery.

Although this plan failed in so many of its parts, the success attending that which was conducted by
General Washington in person was followed by the happiest effects. Had it been practicable for
the divisions under Generals Irvine and Cadwallader to cross the river,
it was intended to proceed from Trenton to the posts at and about
Bordentown, to sweep the British from the banks of the Delaware, [51]
and to maintain a position in the Jerseys.

But finding that those parts of the plan had failed, and supposing the British to remain in force
below, while a strong corps was posted at Princeton, General Washington thought it unadviseable
to hazard the loss of the very important advantage already gained,
by attempting to increase it, and recrossed the river with his prisoners
and military stores.

Lieutenant Colonel Baylor, his aid-de-camp, who carried the intelligence of this success to congress,
was presented with a horse completely caparisoned for service, and
recommended to the command of a regiment of cavalry.

[Footnote 51: A fact has been stated to the author which shows to what
an extent the plan might have been executed had it been possible to cross
the river. Colonel Reed, who was with the division of Cadwallader,
passed the ferry with the van of the infantry, and immediately despatched
some trusty persons to examine the situation of the troops at Mount
Holly.

The report made by his messengers was, that they had looked into several
houses in which the soldiers were quartered, and had found them generally
fast asleep, under the influence, as was supposed, of the spirituous
liquors they had drunk the preceding day, which was Christmas-day. That
there appeared to be no apprehension of danger, nor precaution against
it.] Nothing could surpass the astonishment of the British commander
at this unexpected display of vigour on the part of the American
General.

His condition, and that of his country, had been thought desperate. He had
been deserted by all the troops having a legal right to leave him;
and, to render his situation completely ruinous, nearly two-thirds of
the continental soldiers still remaining with him, would be entitled
to their discharge on the first day of January.

There appeared to be no probability of prevailing on them to continue longer in the service, and
the recruiting business was absolutely at an end. The spirits of a large proportion of the people were
sunk to the lowest point of depression. New Jersey appeared to be completely subdued; and
some of the best judges of the public sentiment were of opinion that immense numbers in Pennsylvania,
also, were determined not to permit the sixty days allowed in the proclamation of Lord and Sir William
Howe, to elapse, without availing themselves of the pardon it proffered. Instead of offensive operations,
the total dispersion of the small remnant of the American army was to be expected, since it
would be rendered too feeble by the discharge of those engaged only
until the last day of December, to attempt, any longer, the defence
of the Delaware, which would by that time, in all probability, be
passable on the ice.

While every appearance supported these opinions, and the British General,
without being sanguine, might well consider the war as approaching
its termination, this bold and fortunate enterprise announced to him,
that he was contending with an adversary who could never cease to
be formidable while the possibility of resistance remained.

Finding the conquest of America more distant than had been supposed, he determined, in the
depth of winter to recommence active operations; and Lord Cornwallis, who had retired to New York
with the intention of embarking for Europe, suspended his departure,
and returned to the Jerseys in great force, for the purpose of regaining
the ground which had been lost.

Meanwhile, Count Donop, who commanded the troops below Trenton, on hearing
the disaster which had befallen Colonel Rawle, retreated by the road
leading to Amboy, and joined General Leslie at Princeton.

The next day, General Cadwallader crossed the Delaware, with orders to harass the enemy, but
to put nothing to hazard until he should be joined by the continental
battalions, who were allowed a day or two of repose, after the fatigues
of the enterprise against Trenton. General Mifflin joined General Irvine
with about fifteen hundred Pennsylvania militia, and those troops also
crossed the river.

Finding himself once more at the head of a force with which it seemed
practicable to act offensively, the General determined to employ the
winter in endeavouring to recover Jersey.{ December 30.} With this view,
he ordered General Heath to leave a small detachment at Peekskill, and with
the main body of the New England militia, to enter Jersey, and approach
the British cantonments on that side.

General Maxwell was ordered, with all the militia he could collect,
to harass their flank and rear, and to attack their out-posts on every favourable
occasion, while the continental troops, led by himself, recrossed the
Delaware, and took post at Trenton. On the last day of December,
the regulars of New England were entitled to a discharge.

With great difficulty, and a bounty of ten dollars, many of them were induced to renew their
engagements for six weeks.{ 1777}{ January 1.} The British were now collected in force at Princeton
under Lord Cornwallis; and appearances confirmed the intelligence, secretly
[52] obtained, that he intended to attack the American army. [Footnote 52:
In this critical moment, when correct intelligence was so all important,
Mr. Robert Morris raised on his private credit in Philadelphia, five
hundred pounds in specie, which he transmitted to the Commander-in-chief,
who employed it in procuring information not otherwise to have been
obtained.] Generals Mifflin and Cadwallader, who lay at Bordentown
and Crosswix, with three thousand six hundred militia, were therefore
ordered to join the Commander-in-chief, whose whole effective force,
with this addition, did not exceed five thousand men.{ January 2.}
Lord Cornwallis advanced upon him the next morning; and about four
in the afternoon, the van of the British army reached Trenton.

On its approach, General Washington retired across the Assumpinck,
a creek which runs through the town. The British attempted to cross
the creek at several places, but finding all the fords guarded, they
desisted from the attempt, and kindled their fires.

The Americans kindled their fires likewise; and a cannonade was kept
up on both sides till dark. The situation of General Washington was
again extremely critical. Should he maintain his position, he would
certainly be attacked next morning, by a force so very superior,
as to render the destruction of his little army inevitable.

Should he attempt to retreat over the Delaware, the passage of that river had been rendered so difficult
by a few mild and foggy days which had softened the ice, that a total
defeat would be hazarded.

In any event, the Jerseys would, once more, be entirely in possession
of the enemy; the public mind again be depressed; recruiting discouraged;
and Philadelphia, a second time, in the grasp of General Howe.

In this embarrassing state of things, he formed the bold design of
abandoning the Delaware, and marching, by a circuitous route, along
the left flank of the British army, into its rear, at Princeton, where
its strength could not be great; and, after beating the troops at
that place, to move rapidly to Brunswick, where the baggage and principal
magazines of the army lay under a weak guard.

He indulged the hope that this manoeuvre would call the attention of
the British general to his own defence. Should Lord Cornwallis, contrary
to every reasonable calculation, proceed to Philadelphia, nothing
worse could happen in that quarter, than must happen should the American
army be driven before him; and some compensation for that calamity
would be obtained by expelling the enemy completely from Jersey, and
cutting up, in detail, all his parties in that state.{ January 3.}
[Sidenote: Of Princeton.] This plan being approved by a council of
war, preparations were made for its immediate execution.

As soon as it was dark, the baggage was removed silently to Burlington; and, about one in the
morning, after renewing their fires, and leaving their guards to go the rounds as usual; the army
decamped with perfect silence, and took a circuitous route along the Quaker road to Princeton, where three
British regiments had encamped the preceding night, two of which
commenced their march early in the morning to join the rear of their
army at Maidenhead.

At sunrise, when they had proceeded about two miles, they saw the Americans on their left, advancing in
a direction which would enter the road in their rear.

They immediately faced about, and, repassing Stony Brook, moved under
cover of a copse of wood towards the American van, which was conducted
by General Mercer.

A sharp action ensued, which, however, was not of long duration.

The militia, of which the advanced party was principally composed, soon gave way; and the few
regulars attached to them were not strong enough to maintain their
ground.

While exerting
himself gallantly to rally his broken troops, General Mercer was
mortally wounded, and the van was entirely routed. But the fortune of the
day was soon changed. The main body, led by General Washington in person, followed
close in the rear, and attacked the British with great spirit. Persuaded
that defeat would irretrievably ruin the affairs of America, he advanced
in the very front of danger, and exposed himself to the hottest fire
of the enemy.

He was so well supported by the same troops who, a few
days before, had saved their country at Trenton, that the British, in
turn, were compelled to give way. Their line was broken, and the two
regiments separated from each other.

Colonel Mawhood, who commanded that in front, and was, consequently,
nearest the rear division of the army, under Lord Cornwallis, retired
to the main road, and continued his march to Maidenhead.

The fifty-fifth regiment, which was on the left, being hard pressed,
fled in confusion across the fields into a back road, leading between
Hillsborough and Kingston towards Brunswick.

The vicinity of the British forces at Maidenhead secured Colonel Mawhood,
and General Washington pressed forward to Princeton.

The regiment remaining in that place took post in the college, and made a show of resistance;
but some pieces of artillery being brought up to play upon that building, it was abandoned,
and the greater part of them became prisoners.

A few saved themselves by a precipitate flight to Brunswick. In this engagement, rather more than
one hundred British were killed in the field, and near three hundred were taken prisoners. The loss of
the Americans, in killed, was somewhat less, but in their number
was included General Mercer, a valuable officer, who had served with
the Commander-in-chief during his early campaigns in Virginia, and
was greatly esteemed by him.

Colonels Haslet and Potter, Captain Neal of the artillery, Captain Fleming, and five other valuable officers,
were also among the slain. On the return of day-light, Lord Cornwallis
discovered that the American army had decamped in the night; and
immediately conceived the whole plan.

Alarmed at the danger which threatened Brunswick, he marched with the
utmost expedition for that place, and was close in the rear of the American
army before it could leave Princeton.

The situation of General Washington was again perilous in the extreme.
His small army was exhausted with fatigue. His troops had been without
sleep, all of them one night, and some of them, two. They were without
blankets, many of them were bare-footed and otherwise thinly clad,
and were eighteen miles from his place of destination. He was closely pursued
by a superior enemy who must necessarily come up with him before
he could accomplish his designs on Brunswick.

Under these circumstances he abandoned the remaining part of his original plan, and took the road
leading up the country to Pluckemin, where his troops were permitted to refresh themselves. Lord Cornwallis
continued his march to Brunswick, which he reached in the course of that night. The sufferings
of the American soldiers had been so great from the severity of the season, and the very active
service in which they had been engaged; their complaints, especially
on the part of the militia, were so loud; their numbers were reducing
so fast by returning home, and by sickness; that General Washington
found it impracticable to continue offensive operations.

He retired to Morristown, in order to put his men under cover, and
to give them some repose.

The bold, judicious, and unexpected attacks made at Trenton and Princeton,
had a much more extensive influence than would be supposed from a
mere estimate of the killed and taken.

They saved Philadelphia for the winter; recovered the state of Jersey;
and, which was of still more importance, revived the drooping spirits
of the people, and gave a perceptible impulse to the recruiting service
throughout the United States.

The problem, that a nation can be defended against a permanent force, by temporary armies, by
occasional calls of the husbandman from his plough to the field,
was completely disproved; and, in demonstrating its fallacy, the independence
of America had nearly perished in its cradle. The utmost efforts
were now directed to the creation of an army for the ensuing campaign,
as the only solid basis on which the hopes of the patriot could rest.
During the retreat through the Jerseys, and while the expectation
prevailed that no effectual resistance could be made to the British
armies, some spirited men indeed were animated to greater and more
determined exertions; but this state of things produced a very different
effect on the great mass, which can alone furnish the solid force
of armies.

In the middle states especially, the panic of distrust was perceived. Doubts concerning the
issue of the contest became extensive; and the recruiting service
proceeded so heavily and slowly as to excite the most anxious solicitude
for the future.

The affairs of Trenton and Princeton were magnified into great victories;
and were believed by the body of the people to evidence the superiority
of their army and of their general.

The opinion that they were engaged in hopeless contest, yielded to a confidence that proper exertions
would ensure ultimate success. This change of opinion was accompanied
with an essential change of conduct; and, although the regiments
required by congress were not completed, they were made much stronger
than was believed to be possible before this happy revolution in the
aspect of public affairs.

[Sidenote: Firmness of Congress.] The firmness of congress throughout the gloomy and trying period
which intervened between the loss of fort Washington and the battle
of Princeton, gives the members of that time a just claim to the admiration
of the world, and to the gratitude of their fellow citizens.

Undismayed by impending dangers, they did not, for an instant, admit the idea of surrendering the
independence they had declared, and purchasing peace by returning
to their colonial situation.

As the British army advanced through Jersey, and the consequent insecurity
of Philadelphia rendered an adjournment from that place a necessary
measure of precaution, their exertions seemed to increase with their
difficulties.

They sought to remove the despondence which was seizing and paralyzing the public mind, by an
address to the states, in which every argument was suggested which
could rouse them to vigorous action.

They made the most strenuous efforts to animate the militia, and
impel them to the field, by the agency of those whose popular eloquence
best fitted them for such a service.{ 1776}{ December 20.} When reassembled
at Baltimore, the place to which they had adjourned, their resolutions
exhibited no evidence of confusion or dismay; and the most judicious
efforts were made to repair the mischief produced by past errors.{
December 27.} Declaring that, in the present state of things, the
very existence of civil liberty depended on the right execution of
military powers, to a vigorous direction of which, distant, numerous,
and deliberative bodies were unequal, they authorized General Washington
to raise sixteen additional regiments, and conferred upon him, for
six months, almost unlimited powers for the conduct of the war.

Towards the close of 1776, while the tide of fortune was running strongest against them, some
few members, distrusting their ability to make a successful resistance, proposed to authorize their
commissioners at the court of Versailles to transfer to France the same monopoly of their trade
which Great Britain had possessed. [53] This proposition is stated to have been relinquished,
because it was believed that concessions of this kind would impair many
arguments which had been used in favour of independence, and disunite
the people.

It was next proposed to offer a monopoly of certain enumerated articles; but the unequal operation
of this measure gave to the proposition a speedy negative. Your world up
here is still a strange world to me."

Still smiling with the pleasure of her fancy, she replied, "But didn't you ask me again and
again to help you to know the mountains as I know them?"

"Yes," he said, "but you would not promise."

"I did better than promise"--she returned--"I brought you, from the mountains themselves, their
three greatest gifts."

He shook his head, with the air of a backward schoolboy--"Won't you read the lesson?"

"If you will work while I talk, I will," she answered--amused by the hopelessness of his manner
and tone.

Obediently, he took up his brushes, and turned toward his picture.

Removing her hat, she seated herself on the ground, where she had woven the willow basket for
the fish.

After a moment's silence, she began--timidly, at first, then with increasing confidence as
she found words to express her charming fancy. "First, you must know, that in all the wild
life of the mountains there is no creature so strong--in proportion to its size and weight,
I mean--as the trout that lives in the mountain streams. Its home is in the icy torrents that
are fed by the snows of the highest peaks and canyons. It lives, literally, in the innermost
heart and life of the hills. It seeks its food at the foot of the falls, where the water boils
in fierce fury; where the current swirls and leaps among the boulders; and where the stream
rushes with all its might down the rocky channels. With its muscles, fine as tempered steel,
it forces its way against the strength of the stream--conquering even the fifty-foot downward
pour of a cataract. Its strength is a silent strength. It has no voice other than the voice
of its own beautiful self. Some of these may have been counterfeiters at home. They come to America
either as stokers, sailors, stewards, or stowaways, and, while they can not get passports,
it is surprising how lax the authorities are in permitting their escape. The spirit of the Italian
law is willing enough, but its fleshly enforcement is curiously weak.

Those who have money enough manage to reach France or Holland and come over first or second-class.
The main fact is that they get here-- law or no law. Once they arrive in America, they realize
their opportunities and actually start in to turn over a new leaf. They work hard; they become
honest. They may have been Camorrists or Mafiusi at home, but they are so no longer. They are
"on the level," and stay so; only-- they are "men of honor." And what is the meaning of that?
Simply that they keep their mouths, eyes, and ears shut so far as
the Mala Vita is concerned.

They are not against it. They might even assist it passively.

Many of these erstwhile criminals pay through the nose for respectability-- the Camorrist after
his kind, the Mafius'after his kind.

Sometimes the banker who is paying to a Camorrist is blackmailed
by a Mafius'.

He straightway complains to his own bad man, who goes to the "butter-in" and says in effect: "Here!
What are you doing? Don't you know So-and-So is under my protection?"

"Oh!" answers the Mafius'. "Is he? Well, if that is so, I'll leave him alone-- as long as he is
paying for protection by somebody."

The reader will observe how the silence of "the man of honor" is not remotely associated with the Omerta.
As a rule, however, the "men of honor" form a privileged and negatively
righteous class, and are let strictly alone by virtue of their evil
past.

The number of south Italians who now occupy positions of respectability
in New York and who have criminal records on the other side would
astound even their compatriots. Even several well-known business men,
bankers, journalists, and others have been convicted of something
or other in Italy.

Standing by the gray boulder, with her face up turned to the mountains, she placed the instrument
under her chin and drew the bow softly across the strings.

For an hour or more she played. Then, as Czar trotted sedately into the glade, she lowered
her instrument and, with a smile, called merrily to Conrad Lagrange who, attracted by the music,
was standing at the gate on the bank--from the artist's position invisible; "Come down, good
genie,--come down! You have been watching there quite long enough. Come, instantly; or with
my magic I'll turn you into a fantastic, dancing bug, such as those that straddle there upon
the waters of the spring, or else into a fat pollywog that wiggles in the black ooze among
the dead leaves and rotting bits of wood."

With a quick movement, she tucked her violin under her chin and played a few measures of the
worst sort of ragtime, in perfect imitation of a popular performer. The effect, following the
music she had just been making, was grotesque and horrible.

"Mercy, mercy!" cried the man at the gate. "I beg! I beg! Do not, I pray, good nymph, torture
me with thy dreadful power. I swear that I will obey thy every wish and whim." 

Did his best in that direction though undercurrent of observation in lengthy paper he read
decidedly set in direction of making TATE out as a cantankerous wrong-headed person who, proposing
to bestow some£ 160,000 in way of free gift, expected to have his wishes consulted in such matter
of detail as selection of site for Gallery.

"I venture to hope," said JOKIM, in conclusion, "that the door is not finally closed on the establishment
of a gallery for British Art."

"That's not quite it," said Young Father DILLWYN, with hand to ear,
listening from corner seat below Gangway he shares with that other
eminent statesman, the SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE.

"What we complain of is, that you have so managed matters that the
door hasn't been opened."

"Ah,
well," said JOKIM, wringing his hands, "it's no use my trying anything. Remember once seeing in
dock of police-court at Lyons, a sailor brought up charged with some offence. On his arm was
tattooed the legend,'Pas de chance.'He told long story of honest endeavour, combined with strict honesty
and tireless industry, ever frustrated by malign accident. In short, he was no sooner out of
prison than he was sent back upon fresh conviction. He had no chance, and one time, in enforced
retirement from the world, he indelibly inscribed the legend on his
forearm.

Moi aussi, je n'ai pas de chance. Ever since I joined this Government things have gone wrong with
me, whether in Budget Schemes, when acting as Deputy Leader of the
House, with£ 1 notes, and now in this affair, where I run my head
against TATE (sort of tête-à-tête), and, though I'm innocent as a
lamb, everybody will have it that I've muddled things and lost the
nation a munificent gift.

Pas de chance; cher Toby; pas de chance!"

HANBURY been looking into our Army Service, and behold! it is very
bad.

Condemns it, lock, stock, and barrel.

Things no better than they were in time of Crimean War.

Our Army costs more, and could do less than any in the world. Curious to find statement like
this gravely made in presence of twenty-eight Members, all told, including the SPEAKER. Suppose
it's true, Empire on verge of precipice, into which, on slightest
impulse, it may totter and disappear.

Hon. Members, in the main, care so little that they busy themselves writing letters, chatting
in Lobby, gossipping in Smoke-room; the few present admirably succeed
in disguising terror that must possess them as HANBURY, in solemn
voice, utters his lamentation.

LOCHIEL STANHOPE recks no more than the Northern Chieftain; makes
speech nearly two hours long, proving to empty, but interested Benches,
that never since Peninsular War had Great Britain an Army so large
or so fully equipped.

When midnight struck, the few Members present shook themselves, yawned,
and went home.

"Howdy, Myra," he called in return, as he swung from the saddle; and leaving the chestnut to
roam at will, he went to the porch, his spurs clinking softly over the short, thick grass.

"Where's Sibyl?" he asked, seating himself on the top step.

"I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Oakley," the woman answered, smiling. "You really didn't expect
me to, did you?"

The Ranger laughed. "Did she take gun, basket, rod or violin? If I know whether she's gone
shooting berrying, fishing or fiddling, it may give me a clue--or did she take all four?"

The woman watched him closely. "She took only her violin. She went sometime after lunch--down
the canyon, I think. Do you wish particularly to see her, Mr. Oakley?"

It was evident to the woman that the officer was relieved. "Oh, no; she wouldn't be going far
with her violin. If she went down the canyon, it's all right anyway. But I stopped in to tell
the girl that she must be careful, for a while. There's an escaped convict ranging somewhere
in my district. Some of them are very pretty girls, too. All the worse for them.

The same causes which conspire to throw girls upon their own resources to gain a livelihood, operate
with the brothers; but the latter are more fertile in means of accomplishing
that end.

Girls can only sell papers, flowers or themselves, but boys can black boots, sell papers, run errands,
carry bundles, sweep out saloons, steal what is left around loose
everywhere, and gradually perfect themselves for a more advanced stage
and higher grade of crimes, finally developing into fully-fledged
and first-class criminals.

So much for the causes which help to create this class of street Arabs,
whom it is almost a labor of supererogation to describe, especially
to those who daily hear the familiar cries, "Telegram!"

"News!" "Telegram!" "New-es!" "Mail'n'Express!" uttered chiefly by young girls, all over the town.
Pretty girls they are, too, many of them, with large, lustrous eyes,
long, well-oiled hair, nice shoes upon their feet, short dresses,
disclosing evidences of graceful forms, ruddy complexions, and armed
with many winsome little actions calculated to conciliate patronage.

They are to be seen on Park Row, the Bowery, Chatham street, around
the post-office, hotels, elevated railroad stations, the ferries
leading to Brooklyn, Jersey City and Staten Island-- everywhere, in
fact, where there is a chance of disposing of the afternoon newspaper.

The larger number of these little girls emerge from their hiding-places
about eleven o'clock in the morning. Their hiding-places may have been a
hotel, an assignation house, their parents'homes, some hallway, the News
Girls'Lodging House, resorts in North William, Bayard, Hester, New
Bowery, or any other street in which cheap rooms can be obtained.

It is not to be presumed that all news-girls are bad; on the contrary, many are very good, respectable
little things, but a few only remain so, for their associations are
bad, and many men who purchase papers from them are constantly tempting
them, so that it is very difficult for any of them to remain good
for any length of time.

Be that as it may, however, the news girl in this case arrives down-town about noon. She strolls down
among the brokers and bankers, and in many cases is winked at, conversed with and asked to visit
different offices, which invitation is generally accepted, for a little money is to be made by
the call, with which the afternoon papers are purchased. Sometimes the selling of papers is
merely a pretext under which a better opportunity is afforded of conversing with men. The papers
are hawked in saloons, upon the streets, in cars, and other places. "He's odd and eccentric
and rough spoken sometimes; but he's not at all what you would think him from the stuff he
writes. He's a true man at heart, and you needn't worry about Sibyl getting anything but good
from an acquaintance with him. As for King--well--Conrad Lagrange vouches for him. If you knew
Lagrange, you'd understand what that means. He and the young fellow's mother grew up together.
He swears the lad is right; and, from what I've seen of him, I believe it. It doesn't follow,
though, that you don't need to keep your eyes open. The girl is as innocent as a child--though
she is a woman--and--well--accidents have happened, you know." As he spoke he glanced unconsciously
at the scars that disfigured the naturally beautiful face of the woman.

Myra Willard blushed as she answered sadly, "Yes, I know that accidents have happened. I will
talk with Sibyl; and will you not speak to her too? She loves you so, and is always guided
by your wishes. A little word or two from you would be an added safeguard."

"Sure I'll talk to her," said the Ranger, heartily--rising and whistling to the chestnut. "But
look here, Myra,"--he said, pausing with his foot in the stirrup,--"the girl must have her
head, you know. We don't want to put her in the notion that every man in the world is a villain
laying for a chance to do her harm. There are clean fellows--a few--and it will do Sibyl good
to meet that kind." On being informed of these untoward events, Arnold, at the head of
seven hundred men, marched against the enemy then at Vaudreuil, in
the hope of recovering the American prisoners.

When preparing for an engagement, he received a flag, accompanied by Major Sherburne, giving
him the most positive assurances that if he persisted in his design,
it would be entirely out of the power of Captain Forster to prevent
his savages from pursuing their horrid customs, and disencumbering
themselves of their prisoners by putting every man to death.

This massacre was already threatened; and Major Sherburne confirmed the information. Under
the influence of this threat, Arnold desisted from his purpose, and consented to a cartel,
by which the prisoners were delivered up to him; he agreeing, among
other things, not only to deliver as many British soldiers in exchange
for them, but also, that they should immediately return to their
homes.] The Americans were much dissatisfied with the conduct of this
gentleman.

To
him they, in some degree, attributed the disasters which ruined their
affairs in Canada.

But this censure was unjust. He took command of the army when it was
too weak to maintain its ground, and when the time for saving the
sick and the military stores had passed away.

The siege of Quebec, instead of being continued longer, ought to have been abandoned at an earlier
period. This was the real fault of those who commanded in Canada. It
is to be ascribed to the reluctance always felt by inexperienced
officers to disappoint the public expectation, by relinquishing an
enterprise concerning which sanguine hopes have been entertained;
and to encounter the obloquy of giving up a post, although it can
no longer with prudence be defended.

In the perseverance with which the siege of Quebec was maintained, these motives operated with all
their force, and they received an addition, from the unwillingness
felt by the Americans, to abandon those of their friends who had taken
so decisive a part in their favour, as to be incapable of remaining
in safety behind them.{ June 4.} [Sidenote: General Sullivan takes
the command.] After the death of General Thomas, reinforcements assembled
at the mouth of the Sorel, which increased the army to four or five
thousand men, who were commanded by General Sullivan.

The friendly Canadians who had supposed themselves abandoned, manifested great joy at the
arrival of a force which appeared to them very considerable; and offered every assistance in their
power. Sullivan calculated on their joining him in great numbers, and entertained sanguine hopes of recovering
and maintaining the post of De Chambeau. As a previous measure, it was necessary to dislodge the enemy
at the Three Rivers. Carleton was not immediately in a situation to follow up the blow given the Americans
at Quebec, and to drive them entirely out of the province; but the respite allowed them was
not of long duration.

Towards the end of May large reinforcements arrived, which augmented
the British army in Canada to about thirteen thousand men.

The general rendezvous appointed for these troops was at the Three
Rivers.

The army was greatly divided. A considerable corps, commanded by General Frazer, had reached the Three
Rivers, and the main body was on its way from Quebec. The distance from the Sorel was about fifty miles,
and several armed vessels and transports, full of troops, lay about
five miles higher up than the Three Rivers, full in the way. [28] [Footnote
28: Annual Register.] General Thompson, who commanded the army after
the illness of General Thomas, understanding the party at the Three
Rivers to consist of about eight hundred men, partly Canadians, had
detached Colonel St. Clair with between six and seven hundred men,
to attack it, if there should be any probability of doing so with
advantage.

Colonel St. Clair advanced to Nicolet, where, believing himself not strong enough for the service
on which he had been ordered, he waited for further reinforcements,
or additional instructions.

At this time General Sullivan arrived; and, understanding the enemy
to be weak at the Three Rivers, orders General Thompson to join Colonel
St. Clair at Nicolet, with a reinforcement of nearly fourteen hundred
men, to take command of the whole detachment, and to attack the troops
lying at the Three Rivers, provided there was a favourable prospect
of success.{ June 8.} General Thompson joined Colonel St. Clair at
Nicolet, and, believing himself strong enough to perform the service
consigned to him, fell down the river by night, and passed to the
other side, with the intention of surprising Frazer. She laughed, conscious
of the color that was in her cheeks. "I told him it didn't matter whether I told you or not,
because he always knows every single move I make, anyway."

"Why didn't you tell me, dear?" asked the woman. "You never kept anything from me, before--I'm
sure."

"Why dearest," the girl answered frankly, "I don't know, myself, why I didn't tell you"--which,
Myra Willard knew, was the exact truth.

Then Sibyl told her foster-mother everything about her acquaintance with the artist and Conrad
Lagrange--from the time she first watched the painter, from the arbor in the rose garden, where
she met the novelist; until that afternoon, when she had invited them to supper, the next day.
Only of her dancing before the artist, the girl did not tell.

Later in the evening, Sibyl--saying that she would sing Myra to sleep--took her violin to the
porch, outside the window; and in the dusk made soft music until the woman's troubled heart
was calmed. When the moon came up from behind the Galenas, across the canyon, the girl tiptoed
into the house, to bend over the sleeping woman, in tender solicitude. With that mother tenderness
belonging to all true women, she stooped and softly kissed the disfigured face upon the pillow.
At the touch, Myra Willard stirred uneasily; and the girl--careful to make no sound--withdrew.

On the porch, she again took up her violin as if to play; but, instead, sat motionless--her
face turned down the canyon--her eyes looking far away. Then, quickly, she put aside the instrument,
and--as though with sudden yielding to some inner impulse--slipped out into the grassy yard. But
more than half the troops [58] were unacquainted with the first rudiments of military duty,
and had never looked an enemy in the face. As an additional cause of apprehension, a large
proportion of the soldiers, especially from the middle states, were foreigners, many of them servants,
in whose attachment to the American cause full confidence could not
be placed.

[Footnote 58: The extreme severity of the service, aided perhaps by
the state of the hospitals, had carried to the grave more than two-thirds
of the soldiers who had served the preceding campaign, and been engaged
for more than one year.] General Washington, anticipating a movement
by land towards Philadelphia, had taken the precaution to give orders
for assembling on the western bank of the Delaware, an army of militia,
strengthened by a few continental troops, the command of which was
given to General Arnold, who was then in Philadelphia, employed in
the settlement of his accounts.

The first and real object of the campaign,
on the part of General Howe, was the acquisition of Philadelphia. He
intended to march through Jersey; and, after securing the submission of
that state, to cross the Delaware on a portable bridge constructed
in the winter for the purpose, and proceed by land to that city. If,
in the execution of this plan, the Americans could be brought to
a general action on equal ground, the advantages of the royal army
must insure a victory.

But should Washington decline an engagement, and be again pressed
over the Delaware, the object would be as certainly obtained.

Had Sir William Howe taken the field before the continental troops were
assembled, this plan might probably have been executed without any serious
obstruction; but the tents and camp equipage expected from Europe
did not arrive until General Washington had collected his forces,
and taken possession of the strong post on the heights of Middlebrook.

It would be dangerous to attack him on such advantageous ground; for, although his camp might
be forced, victory would probably be attended with such loss, as
to disable the victor from reaping its fruits.

If it was deemed too hazardous to attack the strong camp at Middlebrook, an attempt to cross the
Delaware, in the face of an army collected on its western bank, while
that under General Washington remained unbroken in his rear, was an
experiment of equal danger.

It comported with the cautious temper of Sir William Howe to devise some other plan of operation
to which he might resort, should he be unable to seduce the American general from his advantageous
position. The two great bays of Delaware and Chesapeake suggested the alternative of proceeding
by water, should he be unable to manoeuvre General Washington out of his present encampment.{
June.}{ June 12.} The plan of the campaign being settled, and some small reinforcements with
the expected camp equipage being received from Europe, General Howe,
leaving a garrison in New York, and a guard in Amboy, assembled his
army at Brunswick, and gave strong indications of an intention to
penetrate through the country to the Delaware, and reach Philadelphia
by land.

Believing this to be his real design, Washington placed a select corps of riflemen under the command
of Colonel Morgan, an officer who had distinguished himself in the unfortunate attempt to storm Quebec,
and in whom those peculiar qualities which fit a man for the command of a partisan corps, designed
to act on the lines of a formidable enemy, were eminently united.
He was ordered to take post at Vanvighton's Bridge on the Raritan, just
above its confluence with the Millstone River, to watch the left
flank of the British army, and seize every occasion to harass it. Crossing the canyon, they climbed the Oak Knoll trail--down
which the artist and Conrad Lagrange had been led by the uncanny wisdom of Croesus, a few weeks
before--to the pipe-line. Where the path from below leads into the pipe-line trail, under the
live-oaks, on a shelf cut in the comparatively easy slope of the mountain's shoulder, they
paused for a look over the narrow valley that lay a thousand feet below. Across the wide, gray,
boulder-strewn wash of the mountain torrent's way, with the gleaming thread of tumbling Clear
Creek in its center, they could see the white dots that marked the camp back of the old orchard;
and, farther up the stream, could distinguish the little opening with the cedar thicket and
the giant sycamores that marked the spot where Sibyl was born. 

Chadd's Ford was defended by an intrenchment and battery, with three field pieces, and a howitzer.
After some resistance, the work was forced; and, the defeat of the right being known, the left
wing also withdrew from its ground.

The whole army retreated that night to Chester, and the next day
to Philadelphia.

The loss sustained by the Americans in this action has been estimated
at three hundred killed, and six hundred wounded.

Between three and four hundred, principally the wounded, were made
prisoners.

As must ever be the case in new raised armies, unused to danger, and from which undeserving officers
have not been expelled, their conduct was not uniform.

Some regiments, especially those which had served the preceding campaign,
maintained their ground with the firmness and intrepidity of veterans,
while others gave way as soon as they were pressed.

The authors of a very correct history of the war, [63] speaking of
this action, say, "a part of their troops, among whom were particularly
numbered some Virginia [64] regiments, and the whole corps of artillery,
behaved exceedingly well in some of the actions of this day, exhibiting
a degree of order, firmness, and resolution, and preserving such a
countenance in extremely sharp service, as would not have discredited
veterans.

Some other bodies of their troops behaved very badly."

[65] [Footnote 63: Annual Register.] [Footnote 64: The third Virginia
regiment commanded by Colonel Marshall, which had performed extremely
severe duty in the campaign of 1776, was placed in a wood on the right,
and in front of Woodford's brigade, and Stephen's division.

Though attacked by much superior numbers, it maintained its position without losing an inch
of ground, until both its flanks were turned, its ammunition nearly expended, and more than half
the officers, and one third of the soldiers were killed and wounded. Colonel Marshall, whose horse had
received two balls, then retired in good order to resume his position on the right of his division;
but it had already retreated.] [Footnote 65: Deboore's brigade broke first; and, on an inquiry
into his conduct being directed, he resigned. A misunderstanding existed between him and Sullivan,
on whose right he was stationed.] The official letter of Sir William
Howe stated his loss at rather less than one hundred killed, and four
hundred wounded.

As the Americans sustained very little injury in the retreat, this inequality of loss can be ascribed
only to the inferiority of their arms.

Many of their muskets were scarcely fit for service; and, being of
unequal calibre, their cartridges could not be so well fitted, and,
consequently, their fire could not do as much execution as that of
the enemy.

This radical defect was felt in all the operations of the army. From the ardour with which the
Commander-in-chief had inspired his troops before this action, it is probable that the conflict
would have been more severe, had the intelligence respecting the movement on the left of the British
army been less contradictory. Raw troops, changing their ground in the moment of action, and attacked
in the agitation of moving, are easily thrown into confusion. This was the critical situation of
a part of Sullivan's division, and was the cause of the right's breaking
before Greene could be brought up to support it; after which, it was
impossible to retrieve the fortune of the day.

But had the best disposition of the troops been made at the time, which subsequent intelligence
would suggest, the action could not have terminated in favour of the Americans. Their inferiority
in numbers, in discipline, and in arms, was too great to leave them a probable prospect of victory. A battle,
however, was not to be avoided. The opinion of the public, and of congress, demanded it. The loss of
Philadelphia, without an attempt to preserve it, would have excited
discontents which, in the United States, might be productive of serious
mischief; and action, though attended with defeat, provided the loss be
not too great, must improve an army in which, not only the military
talents, but even the courage, of officers, some of them of high rank,
remained to be ascertained.

Among the wounded was the Marquis de la Fayette, and Brigadier General
Woodford. The battle of Brandywine was not considered as decisive
by congress, the General, or the army.

The opinion was carefully cherished that the British had gained only
the ground; and that their loss was still more considerable than
had been sustained by the Americans.

Congress appeared determined to risk another battle for the metropolis of America. Far from discovering
any intention to change their place of session, they passed vigorous
resolutions for reinforcing the army, and directed General Washington
to give the necessary orders for completing the defences of the Delaware.{
September 12.} From Chester, the army marched through Darby, over
the Schuylkill bridge, to its former ground, near the falls of that
river.

General Greene's division, which, having been less in action, was more entire than any other,
covered the rear; and the corps of Maxwell remained at Chester until
the next day, as a rallying point for the small parties, and straggling
soldiers, who might yet be in the neighbourhood. Having allowed his army
one day for repose and refreshment, General Washington recrossed the Schuylkill,
and proceeded on the Lancaster road, with the intention of risking
another engagement.

Sir William Howe passed the night of the 11th on the field of battle.
On the succeeding day, he detached Major General Grant with two brigades
to Concord meeting-house; and on the 13th, Lord Cornwallis joined
General Grant, and marched towards Chester.

Another detachment took possession of Wilmington; to which place the
sick and wounded were conveyed.

To prevent a sudden movement to Philadelphia by the lower road, the
bridge over the Schuylkill was loosened from its moorings, and General
Armstrong was directed, with the Pennsylvania militia to guard the
passes over that river.

On the 15th, the American army, intending to gain the left of the British,
reached the Warren tavern, on the Lancaster road, twenty-three miles
from Philadelphia.

Intelligence was received, early next morning, that Howe was approaching
in two columns. It being too late to reach the ground he had intended to
occupy, Washington resolved to meet and engage him in front.{ September
16.} Both armies prepared, with great alacrity, for battle.

The advanced parties had met, and were beginning to skirmish, when
they were separated by a heavy rain, which, becoming more and more
violent, rendered the retreat of the Americans a measure of absolute
necessity.

The inferiority of their arms never brought them into such imminent peril as on this occasion.
Their gun-locks not being well secured, their muskets soon became unfit for use. Their cartridge-boxes
had been so inartificially constructed, as not to protect their ammunition
from the tempest. Their cartridges were soon damaged; and this mischief
was the more serious, because very many of the soldiers were without
bayonets.

[Sidenote: After a slight skirmish compelled again to retire, cross
the Schuylkill, and proceed to French Creek.] The army being thus
rendered unfit for action, the design of giving battle was reluctantly
abandoned, and a retreat commenced.

It was continued all the day, and great part of the night, through a cold
and most distressing rain, and very deep roads. A few hours before
day, the troops halted at the Yellow Springs, where their arms and
ammunition were examined, and the alarming fact was disclosed, that
scarcely a musket in a regiment could be discharged, and scarcely
one cartridge in a box was fit for use.

This state of things suggested the precaution of moving to a still greater distance, in order
to refit their arms, obtain a fresh supply of ammunition, and revive the spirits
of the army. The General therefore retired to Warwick furnace, on
the south branch of French Creek, where ammunition and a few muskets
might be obtained in time to dispute the passage of the Schuylkill,
and make yet another effort to save Philadelphia.

The extreme severity of the weather had entirely stopped the British army. During two days,
General Howe made no other movement than to unite his columns.

From French Creek, General Wayne was detached with his division, into the rear of the British,
with orders to join General Smallwood; and, carefully concealing himself and his movements, to seize
every occasion which this march might offer, of engaging them to
advantage.

Meanwhile, General Washington crossed the Schuylkill at Parker's ferry, and encamped on both
sides of Perkyomy Creek.{ September 19.} [Sidenote: General Wayne
surprised, and after a sharp action compelled to retreat.] General
Wayne lay in the woods near the entrance of the road from Darby into
that leading to Lancaster, about three miles in the rear of the left
wing of the British troops encamped at Trydruffin, where he believed
himself to be perfectly secure.

But the country was so extensively disaffected that Sir William Howe received accurate accounts of
his position and of his force. Major General Gray was detached to surprise him, and effectually
accomplished his purpose.

About eleven, in the night of the 20th, his pickets, driven in with
charged bayonets, gave the first intimation of Gray's approach.

Wayne instantly formed his division; and while his right sustained
a fierce assault, directed a retreat by the left, under cover of a
few regiments who, for a short time, withstood the violence of the
shock.

In his letter to the Commander-in-chief, he says that they gave the assailants some well-directed
fires which must have done considerable execution; and that, after retreating from the ground
on which the engagement commenced, they formed again, at a small distance
from the scene of action; but that both parties drew off without
renewing the conflict.

He states his loss at about one hundred and fifty [66] killed and wounded. The British accounts admit,
on their part, a loss of only seven. [Footnote 66: The British accounts represent the American
loss to have been much more considerable. It probably amounted to at least three hundred men.] When
the attack commenced, General Smallwood, who was on his march to
join Wayne, a circumstance entirely unexpected by General Gray, was
within less than a mile of him; and, had he commanded regulars, might
have given a very different turn to the night.

But his militia thought only of their own safety; and, having fallen in with a party returning
from the pursuit of Wayne, fled in confusion with the loss of only
one man.

Some severe animadversions on this unfortunate affair having been made
in the army, General Wayne demanded a court martial, which, after
investigating his conduct, was unanimously of opinion, "that he had
done every thing to be expected from an active, brave, and vigilant
officer;" and acquitted him with honour.{ September 21.} Having secured
his rear, by compelling Wayne to take a greater distance, Sir William
Howe marched along the valley road to the Schuylkill, and encamped
on the bank of that river, from the Fatland ford up to French Creek,
along the front of the American army.

To secure his right from being turned, General Washington again changed his position, and encamped with
his left near, but above the British right.

[Sidenote: Washington marches to Pottsgrove.]{ September 22.} General
Howe now relinquished his plan of bringing Washington to another battle;
and, thinking it adviseable, perhaps, to transfer the seat of war to the
neighbourhood of his ships, determined to cross the Schuylkill, and
take possession of Philadelphia.

In the afternoon, he ordered one detachment to cross at Fatland ford which was on his right,
and another to cross at Gordon's ford, on his left, and to take possession
of the heights commanding them.

These orders were executed without much difficulty, and the American troops placed to defend
these fords were easily dispersed. This service being effected, the
whole army marched by its right, about midnight, and crossing at Fatland
without opposition, proceeded a considerable distance towards Philadelphia,
and encamped, with its left near Sweed's ford, and its right on the
Manatawny road, having Stony run in its front.

It was now apparent that only immediate victory could save Philadelphia from the grasp of the British
general, whose situation gave him the option of either taking possession
of that place, or endeavouring to bring on another engagement.

If, therefore, a battle must certainly be risked to save the capital,
it would be necessary to attack the enemy. Public opinion, which a military
chief finds too much difficulty in resisting, and the opinion of congress
required a battle; but, on a temperate consideration of circumstances,
Washington came to the wise decision of avoiding one for the present.

His reasons for this decision were conclusive. Wayne and Smallwood had not yet joined the army. The
continental troops ordered from Peekskill, who had been detained
for a time by an incursion from New York, were approaching; and a
reinforcement of Jersey militia, under General Dickenson, was also
expected.

To these powerful motives against risking an engagement, other considerations
of great weight were added, founded on the condition of his soldiers.

An army, manoeuvring in an open country, in the face of a very superior
enemy, is unavoidably exposed to excessive fatigue, and extreme hardship.

The effect of these hardships was much increased by the privations
under which the American troops suffered. While in almost continual
motion, wading deep rivers, and encountering every vicissitude of the
seasons, they were without tents, nearly without shoes, or winter
clothes, and often without food.

A council of war concurred in the opinion the Commander-in-chief had formed, not to march against
the enemy, but to allow his harassed troops a few days for repose, and to remain on his present
ground until the expected reinforcements should arrive.

Immediately after the battle of Brandywine, the distressed situation
of the army had been represented to congress, who had recommended
it to the executive of Pennsylvania to seize the cloths and other
military stores in the ware houses of Philadelphia, and, after granting
certificates expressing their value, to convey them to a place of
safety.

The executive, being unwilling to encounter the odium of this strong
measure, advised that the extraordinary powers of the Commander-in-chief
should be used on the occasion. Lieutenant Colonel Hamilton, one of
the General's aids, a young gentleman already in high estimation
for his talents and zeal, was employed on this delicate business.

"Your own prudence," said the General, in a letter to him while in Philadelphia, "will point out
the least exceptionable means to be pursued; but remember, delicacy and a strict adherence to
the ordinary mode of application must give place to our necessities. We must, if possible,
accommodate the soldiers with such articles as they stand in need
of, or we shall have just reason to apprehend the most injurious and
alarming consequences from the approaching season."

All the efforts, however, of this very active officer could not
obtain a supply, in any degree, adequate to the pressing and increasing
wants of the army.

[Sidenote: General Howe takes possession of Philadelphia.] [Sidenote:
Congress removes to Lancaster.] Colonel Hamilton was also directed
to cause the military stores which had been previously collected to
a large amount in Philadelphia, and the vessels which were lying at
the wharves, to be removed up the Delaware.

This duty was executed with so much vigilance, that very little public
property fell, with the city, into the hands of the British general,
who entered it on the 26th of September.

The members of congress separated on the eighteenth, in the evening,
and reassembled at Lancaster on the twenty-seventh of the same month.

From the 25th of August, when the British army landed at the Head of Elk, until the 26th of September
when it entered Philadelphia, the campaign had been active, and the duties of the American general
uncommonly arduous. The best English writers bestow high encomiums on Sir William Howe for
his military skill, and masterly movements during this period. At Brandywine especially, Washington
is supposed to have been "outgeneraled, more outgeneraled than in
any action during the war."

If all the operations of this trying period be examined, and the means in possession of both be considered,
the American chief will appear, in no respect, inferior to his adversary, or unworthy of the
high place assigned to him in the opinions of his countrymen. With
an army decidedly inferior, not only in numbers, but in every military
requisite except courage, in an open country, he employed his enemy
near thirty days in advancing about sixty miles.

In this time he fought one general action; and, though defeated,
was able to reassemble the same undisciplined, unclothed, and almost
unfed army; and, the fifth day afterwards, again to offer battle.

When the armies were separated by a storm which involved him in the most distressing circumstances,
he extricated himself from them, and still maintained a respectable and imposing countenance.
The only advantage he is supposed to have given was at the battle of Brandywine; and that
was produced by the contrariety and uncertainty of the intelligence received. A general must
be governed by his intelligence, and must regulate his measures by
his information.

It is his duty to obtain correct information; and among the most
valuable traits of a military character, is the skill to select those
means which will obtain it.

Yet the best selected means are not always successful; and, in a
new army, where military talent has not been well tried by the standard
of experience, the general is peculiarly exposed to the chance of
employing not the best instruments.

In a country, too, which is covered with wood, precise information of the numbers composing different
columns is to be gained with difficulty. It has been said "that the Americans do not appear to have
made all the use that might be expected of the advantages which the country afforded for harassing
and impeding the British army." In estimating this objection, it ought to be recollected that
General Smallwood was directed, with the militia of Maryland and Delaware,
supported by a regiment of continental troops, to hang on and harass
the rear of the enemy: that General Maxwell, with a select corps consisting
of a thousand men, was ordered to seize every occasion to annoy him
on his march: that General Wayne, with his division, was afterwards
detached to unite with Smallwood, and command the whole force collected
in the rear, which would have been very respectable.

If the militia did not assemble in the numbers expected, or effect the service allotted to them,
their failure is not attributable to General Washington.

His calls on them had been early and energetic; and the state of
his army did not admit of his making larger detachments from it to supply
the place they had been designed to fill. Loud complaints had been made
against General Maxwell by the officers of his corps; and a court was
ordered to inquire into his conduct, by whom he was acquitted.

Whether that officer omitted to seize the proper occasions to annoy the enemy, or the cautious
and compact movements of Sir William Howe afforded none, can not be easily ascertained. General
Washington felt the loss of Morgan, and wrote pressingly to Gates,
after his success against Burgoyne, to restore him that officer, with
his regiment, as soon as possible.{ 1777}{ September.} [Sidenote:
Measures taken to prevent a communication between the British army
in Philadelphia and their fleet.] Philadelphia being lost, General
Washington sought to make its occupation inconvenient and insecure,
by rendering it inaccessible to the British fleet.

With this design, works had been erected on a low marshy island in the Delaware, near the junction
of the Schuylkill, which, from the nature of its soil, was called
Mud Island.

On the opposite shore of Jersey, at a place called Red Bank, a fort had also been constructed
which was defended with heavy artillery. In the deep channel between, or under cover of these
batteries, several ranges of frames had been sunk, to which, from
their resemblance to that machine, the name of chevaux-de-frise had
been given.

These frames were so strong and heavy as to be destructive of any ship which might strike against
them, and were sunk in such a depth of water as rendered it equally
difficult to weigh them or cut them through; no attempt to raise
them, or to open the channel in any manner could be successful until
the command of the shores on both sides should be obtained.

Other ranges of these machines had been sunk about three miles lower down the
river; and some considerable works were in progress at Billingsport
on the Jersey side, which were in such forwardness as to be provided
with artillery.

These works and machines were farther supported by several galleys mounting heavy cannon, together with
two floating batteries, a number of armed vessels, and some fire
ships.

The present relative situation of the armies gave a decisive importance
to these works.

It is likely that Aaron King, himself, could not, at that time, have told why, as he was leaving
the hills, he had paused to visit once more the spot where Sibyl Andrés had brought to him
her three gifts from the mountains--where, in her pure innocence, she had danced before him
the dance of the mating butterflies--and where, with the music of her violin, she had saved
their friendship from the perils that threatened it--lifting their intimate comradeship into
the pure atmosphere of the higher levels, even as she had shown him the trails that lead from
the lower canyon to the summits and peaks of the encircling mountain walls. But when he rejoined
his friend there was something in his face that prevented the novelist from making any comment
in a laughing vein.

As the two men passed outward through the canyon gates and, looking backward as they went,
saw those mighty doors close silently behind them, the artist was moved by emotions that were
strange and new to the man who, two months before, had watched those gates open to receive
him. This, too, is true; as that man, then, knew, but did not know, the mountains; so this
man, now, knew, yet still did not know, himself.

Where the road crosses, for the last time, the tumbling stream from the heart of the hills,
they halted; and for one night slept again at the foot of the mountains. The next day they
arrived at their little home in the orange grove. To Aaron King, it seemed that they had been
away for years.

When the traces of their days upon the road had been removed, and they were garbed again in
the conventional costume of the world; when their outfit had been put away, and a home found
for patient Croesus; the artist went to his studio. The afternoon passed and Yee Kee called
dinner; but Aaron King did not come. Then Conrad Lagrange went to find him. Softly, the older
man pushed open the studio door to see the painter sitting before the portrait of Mrs. Taine,
with the package of his mother's letters in his hand.

Without a sound, the novelist withdrew, leaving the door ajar. Going to the corner of the house,
he whistled low, and in answer, Czar come bounding to him from the porch. "Go find Aaron, Czar,"
said the man, pointing toward the studio. "Go find Aaron."

Obediently, with waving tail, the dog trotted off, and pushing open the door entered the room;
followed a few moments later by his master.

Conrad Lagrange smiled as he saw that the easel was without a canvas. The portrait of Mrs.
Taine was turned to the wall.

Chapter XXIV

James Rutlidge Makes a Mistake

When Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange had said, "good-by," to their friends, at Sibyl Andrés'
home, that evening; and had returned to spend their last night at the camp in the sycamores;
the girl's mood was again the mood of one oppressed by a haunting, foreboding fear.

Sibyl could not have expressed, or even to herself defined, her fear. She only knew that in
the presence of James Rutlidge she was frightened. She had tried many times to overcome her
strange antipathy; for Rutlidge, until that day in the studio, had never been other than kind
and courteous in his persistent efforts to win her friendship. Perhaps it was the impression
left by the memory of Myra Willard's manner at the time of their first meeting with him, three
years before, in Brian Oakley's home; perhaps it was because the woman with the disfigured
face had so often warned her against permitting her slight acquaintance with Rutlidge to develop;
perhaps it was something else--some instinct, possible, only, to one of her pure, unspoiled
nature--whatever it was, the mountain girl who was so naturally unafraid, feared this man who,
in his own world, was an acknowledged authority upon matters of the highest spiritual and moral
significance.

That night, she slept but little. With the morning, every nerve demanded action, action. She
felt as though if she could not spend herself in physical exertion she would go mad. Taking
her lunch, and telling her companion that she was going for a good, full day with the trout;
she was starting off, when the woman called her back.

"You have forgotten Mr. Oakley's warning, dear. You are not to go unarmed, you know."

"Oh, bother that old convict, Brian Oakley is so worried about," cried the girl. "I don't like
to carry a gun when I am fishing. It's only an extra load." But, never-the-less, as she spoke,
she went back to the porch; where Myra Willard handed her a belt of cartridges, with a serviceable
Colt revolver in the holster. There was no hint of awkwardness when the girl buckled the belt
about her waist and settled the holster in its place at her hip.

"You will be careful, won't you, dear," said the woman, earnestly.

Lifting her face for another good-by kiss, the girl answered, "Of course, dear mother heart."
Then, with a laugh--"I'll agree to shoot the first man I meet, and identify him afterwards--if
it will make you easier in your mind. You won't worry, will you?"

Myra Willard smiled. "Not a bit, child. I know how Brian Oakley loves you, and he says that
he has no fear for you if you are armed. He takes great chances himself, that man, but he would
send us back to Fairlands, in a minute, if he thought you were in any danger in your rambles."

Beside the roaring Clear Creek, Sibyl seated self upon a great boulder--her rod and flies neglected--apparently
unmindful of the purpose that had brought her to the stream. Her eyes were not upon the swirling
pool at her feet, but were lifted to a spot, a thousand feet up on Oak Knoll, where she knew
the pipe-line trail lay, and where Croesus had made the momentous decision that had resulted
in her comradeship with Aaron King. Following the canyon wall with her eyes--as though in her
mind she walked the thread-like path--from Oak Knoll to the fire-break a mile from the reservoir;
her gaze then traced the crest of the Galenas, resting finally upon that clump of pines high
up on the point that was so clearly marked against the sky. Once, she laid aside her rod, and
slipped the creel from her shoulder. But even as she set out, she hesitated and turned back;
resolutely taking up her fishing-tackle again, as though, angry with herself for her state
of mind, she was determined to indulge no longer her mood of indecision.

But the fishing did not go well. To properly cast a trout-fly, one's thoughts must be upon
the art. A preoccupied mind and wandering attention tends to a tangled line, a snarled leader,
and all sorts of aggravating complications. Sibyl--usually so skillful at this most delicate
of sports--was as inaccurate and awkward, this day, as the merest tyro. The many pools and
falls and swirling eddies of Clear Creek held for her, now, memories more attractive, by far,
than the wary trout they sheltered. The familiar spots she had known since childhood were haunted
by a something that made them seem new and strange.

At last,--thoroughly angry with her inability to control her mood, and half ashamed of the
thoughts that forced themselves so insistently upon her; with her nerves and muscles craving
the action that would bring the relief of physical weariness,--she determined to leave the
more familiar ground, for the higher and less frequented waters of Fern Creek. Climbing out
of the canyon, by the steep, almost stair-like trail on the San Bernardino side, she walked
hard and fast to reach Lone Cabin by noon. The unconstrained freedom of the street, therefore, is
undoubtedly one great source of danger to the young but there are many others which, in varying
degrees, conspire to ensnare and corrupt them. So that the wonder is that so many escape rather
than that so many are contaminated.

The manner in which poor people-- the very poor-- live in this city is, of itself, fearfully
demoralizing in its effects upon their children. Oftener than otherwise, a family, in some cases
six or seven in number, will occupy but two rooms; one, a kitchen, the other, a sleeping apartment.
In the latter room are sometimes the father, mother, one or two daughters,
say ten, twelve or fifteen years of age, and as many sons, younger
or older, as the case may be.

Just think of it! think of the tender age at which these children are familiarized with what
should be as a sealed book. Think of-- what frequently happens-- a drunken father reeling to the
marriage bed in such a room! Think of brothers and sisters of such ages lying side by side, and
think of the mistakes that might occur when-- which is possible-- the whole family may have taken
liquor and the floor is one common bed. There are hundreds of families living in this big, charitable
city in this degrading manner. Is it any surprise that children here are bad and criminally
vicious at five years of age and upwards?

It not infrequently happens that the parents of families so circumstanced
are sent to the "Island," in which case the children are then, indeed,
upon the streets.

Yet they are so precocious and resourceful that they generally are able to take care of themselves,
and so become flower girls, news girls, wharf rats, etc. There are
yet other causes which go to affect the lives of the children of the
poor. When no living object met her eye, and she could hear no sound save the
lonely wind in the pines and the faint murmur of the stream in the gorge below, she took the
few steps that yet remained of the climb, and seated herself for a moment's well-earned rest.
Some small animal, she told herself,--a squirrel or a wood-rat, perhaps,--frightened at her
approach, and scurrying hastily to cover, had dislodged the pebbles with the slight noise that
she had heard.

From where she sat with her back against the trunk of a great pine, she could see--far below,
and beyond the immediate spurs and shoulders of the range, on the farther side of the gorge
out of which she had just come--the lower end of Clear Creek canyon, and, miles away, under
the blue haze of the distance, the dark squares of the orange groves of Fairlands.

Somewhere between those canyon gates and the little city in the orange groves, the girl knew
that Aaron King and his friend were making their way back to the world of men. With her eyes
fixed upon the distant scene, as if striving for a wholly impossible strength of vision to
mark the tiny, moving spots that she knew were there, the girl upon the high rim of the wild
and lonely mountain gorge was lost to her surroundings, in an effort, as vain, to see her comrade
of the weeks just past, in the years that were to come. Would the friendship born in the hills
endure in the world beyond the canyon gates? Could it endure away from those scenes that had
given it birth? Was it possible for a fellowship, established in the free atmosphere of the
mountains, to live in the lower altitude of Fairlands? Sibyl Andrés,--as she sat there, alone
in the hills she loved,--in her heart of hearts, answered her own questions, "No." But still
she searched the years to come--even as her eyes so futilely searched the distant landscape
beyond the mighty gates that seemed, now, to shut her in from that world to which Aaron King
was returning.

The girl was aroused from her abstraction by a sound behind her and a little to the left of
the tree against which she was leaning. In a flash, she was on her feet.

James Rutlidge stood a few steps away. He had been approaching her as she sat under the tree;
but when she sprang to her feet and faced him, he halted. Lifting his hat, he greeted her with
easy assurance; a confident, triumphant smile upon his heavy features.

White-faced and trembling, the mountain girl--who a few moments before, had been so unafraid--stood
shrinking before this cultured representative of the arts. Returning his salutation, she was
starting hurriedly away down the trail, when he said, "Wait. Why be in such a hurry?"

As if against her will, she paused. "It is growing late," she faltered; "I must go."

He laughed. "I will go with you presently. Don't be afraid." Coming forward, with an air of
making himself very much at home, he placed his rifle against the tree where she had been sitting.
Then, as if to calm her fears, he continued, "I am camped at Burnt Pine, with a party of friends. The
army which was thus pressed slowly through the Jerseys, was aided by no other cavalry than a
small corps of badly mounted Connecticut militia, commanded by Major Shelden; and was almost equally destitute
of artillery.

Its numbers, at no time during the retreat, exceeded four thousand men, and on reaching the Delaware,
was reduced to less than three thousand; of whom, not quite one thousand were militia of New Jersey.
Even among the continental troops there were many whose term of service
was about to expire.

Its defectiveness of numbers did not constitute its only weakness.

The regulars were badly armed, worse clad, and almost destitute of tents, blankets, or utensils
for dressing their food. They were composed chiefly of the garrison of fort Lee, and had been obliged
to evacuate that place with too much precipitation to bring with them even those few articles
of comfort and accommodation with which they had been furnished. The Commander-in-chief found
himself at the head of this small band of soldiers, dispirited by their losses and fatigues,
retreating almost naked and bare-footed, in the cold of November and December, before a numerous,
well appointed, and victorious army, through a desponding country, much more disposed to obtain
safety by submission, than to seek it by a manly resistance.

In this crisis of American affairs, a proclamation was issued by Lord and General Howe, as
commissioners appointed on the part of the crown for restoring peace to America, commanding
all persons assembled in arms against his majesty's government, to disband and return to their
homes; and all civil officers to desist from their treasonable practices, and relinquish their
usurped authority.

A full pardon was offered to every person who would, within sixty days, appear before certain civil
or military officers of the crown, claim the benefit of that proclamation,
and testify his obedience to the laws by subscribing a declaration
of his submission to the royal authority.

Copies of it were dispersed through the country, after which numbers flocked in daily, to
make their peace and obtain protection. The contrast between the splendid appearance of the pursuing
army, and that of the ragged Americans who were flying before them, could not fail to nourish
the general opinion that the contest was approaching its termination.

Among the many valuable traits in the character of Washington, was that unyielding firmness of
mind which resisted these accumulated circumstances of depression, and supported him under them. Undismayed
by the dangers which surrounded him, he did not for an instant relax
his exertions, nor omit any thing which could obstruct the progress
of the enemy, or improve his own condition.

He did not appear to despair of the public safety, but struggled against adverse fortune with
the hope of yet vanquishing the difficulties which surrounded him; and constantly showed himself
to his harassed and enfeebled army, with a serene, unembarrassed
countenance, betraying no fears in himself, and invigorating and inspiring
with confidence the bosoms of others.

To this unconquerable firmness, to this perfect self-possession under the most desperate circumstances,
is America, in a great degree, indebted for her independence.{ December
5.} After removing his baggage and stores over the Delaware, and sending
his sick to Philadelphia, the American General, finding that Lord
Cornwallis still continued in Brunswick, detached twelve hundred men
to Princeton in the hope that this appearance of advancing on the
British might not only retard their progress, but cover a part of
the country, and reanimate the people of Jersey.

Some portion of this short respite from laborious service was devoted
to the predominant wish of his heart,-- preparations for the next
campaign,-- by impressing on congress a conviction of the real causes
of the present calamitous state of things.

However the human mind may resist the clearest theoretic reasoning,
it is scarcely possible not to discern obvious and radical errors,
while smarting under their destructive consequences. The abandonment
of the army by whole regiments of the flying camp, in the face of
an advancing and superior enemy; the impracticability of calling
out the militia of Jersey and Pennsylvania in sufficient force to
prevent Lord Cornwallis from overrunning the first state, or restrain
him from entering the last, had it not been saved by other causes,
were practical lessons on the subjects of enlistments for a short
time, and a reliance on militia, which no prejudice could disregard,
and which could not fail to add great weight to the remonstrances
formerly made by the Commander-in-chief, which were now repeated.{
December 6.}{ Seventh.} The exertions of General Mifflin to raise
the militia of Pennsylvania, though unavailing in the country, were
successful in Philadelphia.

A large proportion of the inhabitants of that city capable of bearing arms, had associated for the general defence; and,
on this occasion, fifteen hundred of them marched to Trenton; to
which place a German battalion was also ordered by congress.

On the arrival of these troops, General Washington commenced his march
to Princeton, but was stopped by the intelligence that Lord Cornwallis,
having received large reinforcements, was advancing rapidly from
Brunswick by different routes, and endeavouring to gain his rear.{
Eighth.} [Sidenote: General Washington crosses the Delaware.] [Sidenote:
Danger of Philadelphia.] On receiving this intelligence, he crossed
the Delaware, and posted his army in such a manner as to guard the
fords.

As his rear passed the river, the van of the British army appeared in sight. The main body took
post at Trenton, and detachments were placed both above and below,
while small parties, without interruption from the people of the country,
reconnoitred the Delaware for a considerable distance. From Bordentown
below Trenton the course of the river turns westward, and forms an
acute angle with its course from Philadelphia to that place; so that
Lord Cornwallis might cross a considerable distance above, and be not
much, if any, farther from that city than the American army. The British general
made some unsuccessful attempts to seize a number of boats guarded
by Lord Stirling, about Coryell's Ferry; and, in order to facilitate
his movements down the river, on the Jersey shore, repaired the bridges
below Trenton, which had been broken down by order of General Washington.

He then advanced a strong detachment to Bordentown, giving indications
of an intention to cross the Delaware at the same time above and below;
and either to march in two columns to Philadelphia, or completely
to envelop the American army in the angle of the river.

To counteract this plan, the American General stationed a few gallies
to watch the movements of his enemy below, and aid in repelling any
effort to pass over to the Pennsylvania shore; and made such a disposition
of his little army as to guard against any attempt to force a passage
above, which he believed to be the real design.

Having made his arrangements, he waited anxiously for reinforcements;
and, in the meantime, sent daily parties over the river to harass
the enemy, and to observe his situation.

The utmost exertions were made by government to raise the militia. In
the hope that a respectable body of continental troops would aid these
exertions, General Washington had directed General Gates, with the
regulars of the northern army, and General Heath, with those at Peekskill,
to march to his assistance.

[Sidenote: Capture of General Lee.] Although General Lee had been repeatedly urged to join the Commander-in-chief,
he proceeded slowly in the execution of these orders, manifesting a strong disposition to retain
his separate command, and rather to hang on, and threaten the rear
of the British army, than to strengthen that in its front.

With this view he proposed establishing himself at Morristown.

On receiving a letter from General Washington disapproving this proposition,
and urging him to hasten his march, Lee still avowed a preference
for his own plan, and proceeded reluctantly towards the Delaware.

While passing through Morris county, at the distance of twenty miles
from the British encampment, he, very incautiously, quartered under
a slight guard, in a house about three miles from his army.

Information of this circumstance was given by a countryman to Colonel Harcourt, at that time
detached with a body of cavalry to watch his movements, who immediately
formed and executed the design of seizing him.

Early in the morning of the 12th of December, this officer reached Lee's quarters, who received
no intimation of his danger until the house was surrounded, and he
found himself a prisoner.

He was carried off in triumph to the British army, where he was, for
some time, treated as a deserter from the British service. This misfortune
made a serious impression on all America. The confidence originally
placed in General Lee had been increased by his success in the southern
department, and by a belief that his opinions, during the military
operations in New York, had contributed to the adoption of those judicious
movements which had, in some measure, defeated the plans of General
Howe in that quarter.

It was also believed that he had dissented from the resolution of the
council of war for maintaining forts Washington and Lee. No officer,
except the Commander-in-chief, possessed, at that time, in so eminent
a degree, the confidence of the army, or of the country; and his
loss was, almost universally, bewailed as one of the greatest calamities
which had befallen the American arms.

It was regretted by no person more than by General Washington himself. He respected the merit
of that eccentric veteran, and sincerely lamented his captivity. General Sullivan, on whom
the command of that division devolved after the capture of Lee, promptly obeyed the orders which
had been directed to that officer; and, crossing the Delaware at
Philipsburg, joined the Commander-in-chief. On the same day General
Gates arrived with a few northern troops. By these and other reinforcements,
the army was augmented to about seven thousand effective men. [Sidenote:
The British go into winter quarters.] The attempts of the British
general to get possession of boats for the transportation of his army
over the Delaware having failed, he gave indications of an intention
to close the campaign, and to retire into winter quarters.

About four thousand men were cantoned on the Delaware at Trenton, Bordentown, the White Horse,
and Mount Holly; and the remaining part of the army of Jersey was
distributed from that river to the Hackensack.

Strong corps were posted at Princeton, Brunswick, and Elizabethtown. To intimidate the people, and
thereby impede the recruiting service, was believed to be no inconsiderable
inducement with General Howe, for covering so large a portion of Jersey.
To counteract these views, General Washington ordered three of the
regiments from Peekskill to halt at Morristown, and to unite with
about eight hundred militia assembled at that place under Colonel
Ford.

General Maxwell was sent to take command of these troops, with orders
to watch the motions of the enemy, to harass him in his marches, to
give intelligence of all his movements, to keep up the spirits of
the militia, and to prevent the inhabitants from going within the
British lines, and taking protection.{ December 20.} The short interval
between this cantonment of the British troops, and the recommencement
of active operations, was employed by General Washington in repeating
the representations he had so often made to congress, respecting preparations
for the ensuing campaign.

The dangers resulting from a reliance on temporary armies had been
fully exemplified; and his remonstrances on that subject were supported
by that severe experience which corrects while it chastises.

In the course of the campaign, he had suffered greatly from the want of cavalry, of artillery, and
of engineers. His ideas on these important subjects had been already stated to congress,
and were now reurged. With respect to the additional expense to be incurred by the measures recommended,
he observed, "that our funds were not the only object now to be taken
into consideration.

The enemy, it was found, were daily gathering strength from the disaffected. This strength, like
a snow ball by rolling, would increase, unless some means should be devised to check effectually
the progress of their arms. Militia might possibly do it for a little
while; but in a little while also, the militia of those states which
were frequently called upon would not turn out at all, or would turn
out with so much reluctance and sloth, as to amount to the same thing.

Instance New Jersey! Witness Pennsylvania! Could any thing but the river Delaware have saved Philadelphia?"
Could any thing, "he asked," be more destructive of the recruiting business than giving ten dollars
bounty for six weeks service in the militia, who come in, you can not
tell how; go, you can not tell when; and act, you can not tell where;
who consume your provisions, exhaust your stores, and leave you at last
in a critical moment.

"These, sir," he added, "are the men I am to depend upon ten days hence. This is the basis upon
which your cause will rest, and must for ever depend, until you get a large standing army sufficient
of itself to oppose the enemy." He also hinted the idea, extremely
delicate in itself, of enlarging his powers so as to enable him to
act, without constant applications to congress for their sanction
of measures, the immediate adoption of which was essential to the
public interests.

"This might," he said, "be termed an application for powers too dangerous to be trusted." He could only
answer, "that desperate diseases required desperate remedies. He
could with truth declare that he felt no lust for power, but wished
with as much fervency as any man upon this wide extended continent, for an
opportunity of turning the sword into a ploughshare; but his feelings
as an officer and a man had been such as to force him to say, that
no person ever had a greater choice of difficulties to contend with
than himself."

The present aspect of American affairs was gloomy in the extreme. The existing army, except a few regiments,
affording an effective force of about fifteen hundred men, would dissolve in a few days. New
Jersey had, in a great measure, submitted; and the militia of Pennsylvania had not displayed the alacrity expected
from them. General Howe would, most probably, avail himself of the ice which would soon form, and
of the dissolution of the American army, to pass the Delaware and seize Philadelphia. This event was dreaded,
not only on account of its intrinsic importance, but of its peculiar
effect at this time, when an army was to be recruited on which the
future hopes of America were to rest.

It was feared, and with reason, that it would make such an impression on the public mind as to deter
the American youth from engaging in a contest becoming desperate. Impelled by these considerations, General
Washington meditated a blow on the British army, while dispersed in its cantonments, which might
retrieve the affairs of America in the opinion of the public, and
recover the ground that had been lost.

He formed the daring plan of attacking all the British posts on the
Delaware at the same instant.

If successful in all, or any of these attacks, he hoped not only to wipe off the impression
made by his losses, and by his retreat, but also to relieve Philadelphia from immediate danger,
and to compel his adversary to compress himself in such a manner as no longer to cover the Jerseys.
The positions taken to guard the river were equally well adapted to offensive
operations. The regulars were posted above Trenton from Yardley's
up to Coryell's Ferry.

The Pennsylvania flying camp, and Jersey militia, under the command
of General Irvine, extended from Yardley's to the ferry opposite Bordentown;
and General Cadwallader with the Pennsylvania militia lay still lower
down the river.

In the plan of attack which had been digested, it was proposed to cross in the night at M'Konkey's Ferry,
about nine miles above Trenton; to march down in two divisions, the one taking the river road,
and the other the Pennington road, both which lead into the town; the first, towards that part
of the western side which approaches the river, and the last towards the north. This part
of the plan was to be executed by the General in person, at the head of about two thousand four hundred
continental troops. It was thought practicable to pass them over the river by twelve, and to reach
the point of destination by five in the morning of the next day,
when the attack was to be made.

General Irvine was directed to cross at the Trenton Ferry, and to
secure the bridge below the town, in order to prevent the escape of
the enemy by that road.
The brutal desire, the mood and purpose that had brought him to that spot where with the aid
of his glass he could watch Sibyl Andrés, were not denied by his impulse to kindly service.
Under all his thinking, as he considered how he could help the convict to a better life, there
was the shadowy suggestion of a possible situation where a man like the one before him--wholly
in his power as this man would be--might be of use to him in furthering his own purpose--the
purpose that had brought about their meeting.

Studying the object of his pity, he said slowly, "I suppose the most of us are as deserving
of punishment as the majority of those who actually get it. One way or another, we are all
trying to escape the penalty for our wrong-doing. What if I should help you out--make it possible
for you to live like other men who are safe from the law? What would you do if I were to help
you to your freedom?"

The hunted man became incoherent in his pleading for a chance to prove the sincerity of his
wish to live an orderly, respectable, and honest life.

"You have a safe hiding place here in the mountains?" asked Rutlidge.

"Yes; a little hut, hidden in a deep gorge, over on the Cold Water. I could live there a year
if I had supplies."

James Rutlidge considered. "I've got it!" he said at last. "Listen! There must be some peak,
at the Cold Water end of this range, from which you can see Fairlands as well as the Galena
Valley."

"Yes," the other answered eagerly.

"And," continued Rutlidge, "there is a good 'auto' road up the Galena Valley. One could get,
I should think, to a point within--say nine hours of your camp. Do you know anything about
the heliograph?"

"Yes," said the man, his face brightening. "That is, I understand the general principle--that
it's a method of signaling by mirror flashes."

"Good! This is my plan. I will meet you to-morrow on the Laurel Creek trail, where it turns
off from the creek toward San Gorgonio. You know the spot?"

"Yes."

"We will go around the head of Clear Creek, on the divide between this canyon and the Cold
Water, to some peak in the Galenas from which we can see Fairlands; and where, with the field-glass,
we can pick out some point at the upper end of Galena Valley, that we can both find later."

"I understand."

"When I get back to Fairlands, I will make a night trip in the 'auto' to that point, with supplies.
You will meet me there. The day before I make the trip, I'll signal you by mirror flashes that
I am coming; and you will answer from the peak. We'll agree on the time of day and the signals
to-morrow. When you have kept close, long enough for your beard and hair to grow out well,
everybody will have given you up for dead or gone. Then I will take you down and give you a
job in an orange grove. There's a little house there where you can live. You won't need to
show yourself down-town and, in time, you will be forgotten. I'll bring you enough food to-morrow
to last you until I can return to town and can get back on the first night trip."

The man who left James Rutlidge a few minutes later, after trying brokenly to express his gratitude,
was a creature very different from the poor, frightened hunted, starving, despairing, wretch
that Rutlidge had halted an hour before. What that man was to become, would depend almost wholly
upon his benefactor. 

The front of the first, under Lord Cornwallis, reached Somerset Court House, nine miles from
Brunswick, by the appearance of day; and the second, commanded by General de Heister, reached
Middlebush about the same time.

This movement was made with the view of inducing General Washington
to quit his fortified camp, and approach the Delaware, [59] in which
event, the British general expected to bring on an engagement on ground
less disadvantageous than that now occupied by the American army.

But that officer understood the importance of his position too well
to abandon it.

On the first intelligence that the enemy was in motion, he drew out
his whole army, and formed it, to great advantage, on the heights
in front of his camp.

This position was constantly maintained. The troops remained in order of battle during the day;
and, in the night, slept on the ground to be defended. In the mean time the Jersey militia, with
an alacrity theretofore unexampled in that state, took the field in great numbers. They principally
joined General Sullivan, who had retired from Princeton, behind the Sourland hills towards Flemingtown,
where an army of some respectability was forming, which could readily co-operate with that under the
immediate inspection of the Commander-in-chief.

[Footnote 59: General Howe's letter.] The settled purpose of General
Washington was to defend his camp, but not to hazard a general action
on other ground.

He had therefore determined not to advance from the heights he occupied,
into the open country, either towards the enemy, or the Delaware.

The object of General Howe seems to have been, by acting on his anxiety for Philadelphia, to seduce
him from the strong ground about Middlebrook, and tempt him to approach
the Delaware, in the hope of defending its passage.

Should he succeed in this, he had little doubt of being able to bring on an engagement, in which
he counted with certainty on victory. The considerations which restrained General Howe from
attempting to march through Jersey, leaving the American army in
full force in his rear, had determined Washington to allow him to
proceed to the Delaware, if such should be his intention.

In that event, he had determined to throw those impediments only in the way of the hostile army which might
harass and retard its march; and, maintaining the high and secure grounds north of the road
to be taken by the enemy, to watch for an opportunity of striking some important blow with manifest advantage.
He was not long in penetrating the designs of his adversary. "The views of the enemy," he writes
to General Arnold in a letter of the 17th, "must be to destroy this army, and get possession of
Philadelphia. I am, however, clearly of opinion, that they will not move that way until they have
endeavoured to give a severe blow to this army. The risk would be too
great to attempt to cross a river, when they must expect to meet
a formidable opposition in front, and would have such a force as ours
in their rear.

They might possibly be successful, but the probability would be infinitely against them. Should
they be imprudent enough to make the attempt, I shall keep close upon their heels, and will do
every thing in my power to make the project fatal to them." But, besides the argument in favour of their intending,
in the first place, a stroke at this army, drawn from the policy of the measure, every appearance
contributes to confirm the opinion.

The artist had, so far, seen Sibyl only in her mountain costume of soft brown,--made for rough
contact with rocks and underbrush,--with felt hat to match, and high, laced boots, fit for
climbing. She was dressed, now, as Conrad Lagrange had seen her that first time in the garden,
when he was hiding from Louise Taine. The man at the window drew a little back, with a low
exclamation of pleased surprise and wonder. Was that lovely creature there among the roses
his girl comrade of the hills? The Sibyl Andrés he had known--in the short skirt and high boots
of her mountain garb--was a winsome, fanciful, sometimes serious, sometimes wayward, maiden.
This Sibyl Andrés, gowned in clinging white, was a slender, gracefully tall, and beautifully
developed woman.

Slowly, she came toward the studio end of the garden; pausing here and there to bend over the
flowers as though in loving, tender greeting; singing, the while, her low-voiced melody; unafraid
of the sunshine that enveloped her in a golden flood, undisturbed by the careless fingers of
the wind that caressed her hair. A girl of the clean out-of-doors, she belonged among the roses,
even as she had been at home among the pines and oaks of the mountains. The artist, fascinated
by the lovely scene, stood as though fearing to move, lest the vision vanish.

Then, looking up, she saw him, and stretched out her hands in a gesture of greeting, with a
laugh of pleasure.

"Don't move, don't move!" he called impulsively. "Hold the pose--please hold it! I want you
just as you are!"

The girl, amused at his tragic earnestness, and at the manner of his welcome, understood that
the zeal of the artist had brushed aside the polite formalities of the man; and, as unaffectedly
natural as she did everything, gave herself to his mood.

Dragging his easel with the blank canvas upon it across the studio, he cried out, again, "Don't
move, please don't move!" and began working. But I can not help assuring you, on this occasion,
of the high sense of gratitude which all ranks of men, in this your native country, bear to
you. It will give me sincere pleasure to manifest my regards, and render my best services
to you or yours. I do not like to make a parade of these things, and I know you are not fond
of it; however, I hope the occasion will plead my excuse.

The assembly have at length empowered the executive here to provide the Virginia troops serving
with you, with clothes,& c. I am making provision accordingly, and hope to do something towards
it. Every possible assistance from government is afforded the commissary of provisions, whose
department has not been attended to. It was taken up by me too late to do much. Indeed the
load of business devolved on me is too great to be managed well.

A French ship, mounting thirty guns, that has been long chased by the English cruisers, has got
into Carolina, as I hear last night.***** Valley Forge, March 27,
1778.

DEAR SIR,-- About eight days past, I was honoured with your favour
of the 20th ultimo.

Your friendship, sir, in transmitting me the anonymous letter you
had received, lays me under the most grateful obligations; and, if
any thing could give a still further claim to my acknowledgments,
it is the very polite and delicate terms in which you have been pleased
to make the communication.

I have ever been happy in supposing that I held a place in your esteem,
and the proof of it you have afforded on this occasion makes me peculiarly
so.

The favourable light in which you hold me is truly flattering, but I should feel much regret
if I thought the happiness of America so intimately connected with
my personal welfare, as you so obligingly seem to consider it. All I can
say, is, that she has ever had, and, I trust, she ever will have,
my honest exertions to promote her interest.

I can not hope that my services have been the best; but my heart tells me that they have been the
best that I could render. That I may have erred in using the means in my power for accomplishing the
objects of the arduous, exalted station with which I am honoured, I can not doubt; nor do I wish my
conduct to be exempted from the reprehension it may deserve. Error is the portion of humanity,
and to censure it, whether committed by this or that public character,
is the prerogative of freemen.... This is not the only secret insidious
attempt that has been made to wound my reputation.

There have been others equally base, cruel, and ungenerous; because conducted with as little
frankness and proceeding from views perhaps as personally interested.

I am, dear sir,& c. GEO: WASHINGTON. To his excellency Patrick Henry, esquire, Governor of Virginia.*****
Camp, March 28, 1778. DEAR SIR,-- Just as I was about to close my
letter of yesterday, your favour of the fifth instant came to hand.

I can only thank you again, in the language of the most undissembled gratitude, for your friendship:
and assure you, the indulgent disposition which Virginia in particular,
and the states in general entertain towards me, gives me the most
sensible pleasure.

The approbation of my country is what I wish; and, as far as my abilities and opportunity will permit, I
hope I shall endeavour to deserve it. It is the highest reward to
a feeling mind; and happy are they who so conduct themselves as to
merit it.

The anonymous letter with which you were pleased to favour me, was
written by----, so far as I can judge from a similitude of hands....
My caution to avoid any thing that could injure the service, prevented
me from communicating, except to a very few of my friends, the intrigues
of a faction which I know was formed against me, since it might serve
to publish our internal dissensions; but their own restless zeal to
advance their views has too clearly betrayed them, and made concealment
on my part fruitless.

I can not precisely mark the extent of their views, but it appeared
in general, that General Gates was to be exalted on the ruin of my
reputation and influence.

This I am authorized to say from undeniable facts in my own possession,
from publications the evident scope of which could not be mistaken,
and from private detractions industriously circulated.----, it is
commonly supposed, bore the second part in the cabal; and General
Conway, I know, was a very active and malignant partisan; but I have
good reason to believe that their machinations have recoiled most
sensibly upon themselves.

The following extract is taken from a letter written about the same
time to a gentleman in New England, who had expressed some anxious
apprehensions occasioned by a report that the commander-in-chief had
determined to resign his station in the army: "I can assure you that
no person ever heard me drop an expression that had a tendency to
resignation.

For some time, she looked at the beautiful work into which Aaron King had put the best of himself
and of his genius. At last, turning full upon him, her eyes blue and shining, she said in a
low tone, "O Mr. King, it is too--too--beautiful! It is so beautiful it--it--hurts. She seems
to, to"--she searched for the word--"to belong to the roses, doesn't she? It makes you feel
just as the rose garden makes you feel."

He laughed with pleasure, "What a child of nature you are! You have forgotten that it is a
portrait of yourself, haven't you?"

She laughed with him. "I had forgotten. It's so lovely!" Then she added wistfully, "Am I--am
I really like that?--just a little?"

"No," he answered. "But that is just a little, a very little, like you."

She looked at him half doubtfully--sincerely unmindful of the compliment, in her consideration
of its truth. Shaking her head, with a serious smile, she returned slowly, "I wish that I could
be sure you are not mistaken."

"You will permit me to exhibit the picture, will you?" he asked.

"Why, yes! of course! You made it for people to see, didn't you? I don't believe any one could
look at it seriously without having good thoughts, could they?"

"I'm sure they could not," he answered. "But, you see, it's a portrait of you; and I thought
you might not care for the--ah--" he finished with a smile--"shall I say fame?"

"Oh! I did not think that you would tell any one that I had anything to do with it. Is it necessary
that my name should be mentioned?"

"Not exactly necessary"--he admitted--"but few women, these days, would miss the opportunity."

She shook her head, with a positive air. "No, no; you must exhibit it as a picture; not as
a portrait of me. The portrait part is of no importance. It is what you have made your picture
say, that will do good."

"And what have I made it say?" he asked, curiously pleased.

"Why it says that--that a woman should be beautiful as the roses are beautiful--without thinking
too much about it, you know--just as a man should be strong without thinking too much about
his strength, I mean."

"Yes," he agreed, "it says that. But I want you to know that, whatever title it is exhibited
under, it will always be, to me, a portrait--the truest I have ever painted."

She flushed with genuine pleasure as she said brightly, "I like you for that. And now let's
try it on Conrad Lagrange and Myra Willard. You get him, and I'll run and bring her. Mind you
don't let Mr. Lagrange in until I get back! I want to watch him when he first sees it."

When the artist found Conrad Lagrange and told him that the picture was finished, the novelist,
without comment, turned his attention to Czar.

The painter, with an amused smile, asked, "Won't you come for a look at it, old man?"

The other returned gruffly, "Thanks; but I don't think I care to risk it."

The artist laughed. "But Miss Andrés wants you to come. She sent me to fetch you."

Conrad Lagrange turned his peculiar, baffling eyes upon the young man. "Does she like it?"

"She seems to."

"If she seems to, she does," retorted the other, rising. "And that's different."

When the novelist, with his three friends, stood before the easel, he was silent for so long
that the girl said anxiously, "I--I thought you would like it, Mr. Lagrange."

They saw the strange man's eyes fill with tears as he answered, in the gentle tones that always
marked his words to her, "Like it? My dear child, how could I help liking it? It is you--you!"
To the artist, he added, "It is great work, my boy, great! I--I wish your mother could have
seen it. It is like her--as I knew her. You have done well." He turned, with gentle courtesy,
to Myra Willard; "And you? What is your verdict, Miss Willard?"

With her arm around the beautiful original of the portrait, the woman with the disfigured face
answered, "I think, sir, that I, better than any one in all the world, know how good, how true,
it is."

Conrad Lagrange spoke again to the artist, inquiringly; "You will exhibit it?"

"Miss Andrés says that I may--but not as a portrait."

The novelist could not conceal his pleasure at the answer. Presently, he said, "If it is not
to be shown as a portrait, may I suggest a title?"

"I was hoping you would!" exclaimed the painter.

"And so was I," cried Sibyl, with delight. "What is it, Mr. Lagrange?"

"Let it be exhibited as 'The Spirit of Nature--A Portrait'," answered Conrad Lagrange.

As the novelist finished speaking, Yee Kee appeared in the doorway. "They come--big automobile.
Whole lot people. Misse Taine, Miste' Lutlidge, sick man, whole lot--I come tell you."

The artist spoke quickly,--"Stop them in the house, Kee; I'll be right in,"--and the Chinaman
vanished.

At Yee Kee's announcement, Myra Willard's face went white, and she gave a low cry.

"Never mind, dear," said the girl, soothingly. "We can slip away through the garden--come."

When Sibyl and the woman with the disfigured face were gone, Conrad Lagrange and Aaron King
looked at each other, questioningly.

Then the novelist said harshly,--pointing to the picture on the easel,--"You're not going to
let that flock of buzzards feed on this, are you? I'll murder some one, sure as hell, if you do."

"I don't think I could stand it, myself," said the artist, laughing grimly, as he drew the
velvet curtain to hide the portrait.

Chapter XXVII

The Answer

When Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange entered the house to meet their callers from Fairlands
Heights, the artist felt, oddly, that he was meeting a company of strangers.

The carefully hidden, yet--to him--subtly revealed, warmth of Mrs. Taine's greeting embarrassed
him with a momentary sense of shame. Although Governor Tryon had found it necessary to take
refuge on board some ships lying in the harbour, he had been permitted to continue an open
intercourse with the inhabitants, which enabled him to communicate freely with the royalists;
and to concert plans of future co-operation. This intercourse was broken off by the arrival
of the Commander-in-chief;-- yet a plot was formed, through the agency of the mayor, to rise in
favour of the British on their landing; and, as was understood, to seize and deliver up General
Washington himself. This plot had extended to the American army, and even to the general's guards.
It was fortunately discovered in time to be defeated; and some of the persons concerned were
executed. About the same time a similar plot was discovered in the neighbourhood of Albany;
and there too, executions were found necessary.

Hitherto, the sole avowed object of the war had been a redress of grievances. The utmost horror
had been expressed at the idea of attempting independence; and the
most anxious desire of re-establishing the union which had so long
subsisted between the two countries on its ancient principles, was
openly and generally declared.

But however sincere these declarations might have been at the commencement of the conflict,
the operation of hostilities was infallible.

To profess allegiance and respect for a monarch with whom they were at open war, was an absurdity
too great to be long continued. The human mind, when it receives a strong impulse, does not,
like projectiles, stop at the point to which the force originally applied may have been calculated
to carry it. Various causes act upon it in its course.

When the appeal was made to arms, a great majority of those who guided
the councils and led the forces of America, wished only for a repeal
of the acts of parliament which had occasioned their resistance to
the authority of the crown; and would have been truly unwilling to
venture upon the unexplored field of self-government.

For some time, prayers were offered for the king, in the performance of divine service; and, in
the proclamation of a fast by congress, in June, 1775, one of the
motives for recommending it, was, to beseech the Almighty "to bless
our rightful sovereign King George III. and inspire him with wisdom."

[Sidenote: Measures leading to independence.] The prejudices in favour
of a connexion with England, and of the English constitution, gradually,
but rapidly yielded to republican principles, and a desire for independence.

New strength was every day added to the opinions, that a cordial reconciliation
with Great Britain had become impossible; that mutual confidence could
never be restored; that reciprocal jealousy, suspicion, and hate,
would take the place of that affection, which could alone render such
a connexion happy and beneficial; that even the commercial dependence
of America upon Britain, was greatly injurious to the former, and
that incalculable benefits must be derived from opening to themselves
the markets of the world; that to be governed by a distant nation
or sovereign, unacquainted with, and unmindful of their interests,
would, even if reinstated in their former situation, be an evil too
great to be voluntarily borne.

But victory alone could restore them to that situation-- and victory
would give them independence. The hazard was the same; and since the
risk of every thing was unavoidable, the most valuable object ought, in
common justice, and common prudence, to be the reward of success. With
such horror, too, did they view the present war, as to suppose it could
not possibly receive the support of a free people. The alacrity therefore
with which the English nation entered into it, was ascribed to a secret and
dangerous influence, which was, with rapid progress, undermining
the liberties and the morals of the Mother Country; and which, it
was feared, would cross the Atlantic, and infect the principles of
the colonists likewise, should the ancient connexion be restored.

The intercourse of America with the world, and her own experience, had not then been sufficient to
teach her the important truth, that the many, as often as the few, can abuse
power, and trample on the weak, without perceiving that they are tyrants;
that they too, not unfrequently, close their eyes against the light;
and shut their ears against the plainest evidence, and the most conclusive
reasoning.

It was also urged, with great effect, that the possibility of obtaining
foreign aid would be much increased by holding out the dismemberment
of the British empire, to the rivals of that nation, as an inducement
to engage in the contest.

American independence became the general theme of conversation; and more and more the general wish.
The measures of congress took their complexion from the temper of the people. Their proceedings
against the disaffected became more and more vigorous; their language respecting the British government
was less the language of subjects, and better calculated to turn the public attention towards congress
and the provincial assemblies, as the sole and ultimate rulers of the
country. General letters of marque and reprisal were granted; and the
American ports were opened to all nations and people, not subject
to the British crown.{ May 6.} At length, a measure was adopted, which
was considered by congress and by America in general, as deciding the
question of independence.

Hitherto, it had been recommended to particular colonies, to establish
temporary institutions for the conduct of their affairs during the existence
of the contest; but now, a resolution was offered, recommending generally
to such colonies as had not already established them, the adoption
of governments adequate to the exigency.

Mr. John Adams, Mr. Rutledge, and Mr. Richard Henry Lee, all zealous advocates for independence, were appointed
a committee, to prepare a proper preamble to the resolution. The
report of these gentlemen was accepted, and the resolution passed.

[34] [Footnote 34: Before the vote on the question of independence was taken, congress passed resolutions,
declaring that all persons residing within, or passing through any one
of the United Colonies, owed allegiance to the government thereof; and that
any such person who should levy war against any of the United Colonies,
or adhere to the king of Great Britain, or other enemies of the said
colonies, or any of them, should be guilty of treason: and recommending
it to the several legislatures to pass laws for their punishment.]{
May 15.} The provincial assemblies and conventions acted on this recommendation;
and governments were generally established.

In Connecticut and Rhode Island, it was deemed unnecessary to make any change in their actual
situation, because, in those colonies, the executive, as well as
the whole legislature, had always been elected by themselves.

In Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New York, some hesitation was at first
discovered; and the assemblies appeared unwilling to take this decisive
step.

The public opinion, however, was in favour of it, and finally prevailed. The several colonies,
now contemplating themselves as sovereign states, and mingling with the arduous duty of providing means
to repel a powerful enemy, the important and interesting labour of framing
governments for themselves and their posterity, exhibited the novel spectacle
of matured and enlightened societies, uninfluenced by external or internal
force, devising, according to their own judgments, political systems
for their own government.

With the exceptions already stated, of Connecticut and Rhode Island, whose systems had ever been
in a high degree democratic, the hitherto untried principle was adopted, of limiting the departments
of governments by a written constitution, prescribing bounds not
to be transcended by the legislature itself.

The solid foundations of a popular government were already laid in all the colonies. The institutions
received from England were admirably calculated to prepare the way
for temperate and rational republics. No hereditary powers had ever existed;
and every authority had been derived either from the people or the king.
The crown being no longer acknowledged, the people remained the only
source of legitimate power. The materials in their possession, as
well as their habits of thinking, were adapted only to governments in
all respects representative; and such governments were universally
adopted.

The provincial assemblies, under the influence of congress, took
up the question of independence; and, in some instances, authorized
their representatives in the great national council, to enter into
foreign alliances.

Many declared themselves in favour of a total
and immediate separation from Great Britain; and gave instructions
to their representatives conforming to this sentiment.{ June 7.} Thus
supported by public opinion, congress determined to take this decisive
step; and on the 7th of June, a resolution to that effect was moved
by Richard Henry Lee, and seconded by John Adams.

The resolution was referred to a committee, who reported it in the following terms. "Resolved,
that these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be free and independent states; and that all
political connexion between them and the state of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally
dissolved."{ June 28.}{ July 2.} This resolution was referred to a committee of the whole, in
which it was debated on Saturday the 8th, and Monday the 10th of
June.

In the mean time, a committee [35] was appointed to prepare the declaration of independence,
which was reported on the 28th of June, and laid on the table. On the first of July the debate
on the original resolution was resumed. Delaware was divided; and the
delegates from New York, having declared their approbation of the resolution,
and their conviction that it was approved by their constituents also, but
that their instructions, which had been drawn near twelve months
before, enjoined them to do nothing which might impede reconciliation
with the mother country, were permitted to withdraw from the question.

The report of the committee was put off till the next day at the request
of Mr. Rutledge of South Carolina, who expressed the opinion that his
colleagues would then concur in the resolution for the sake of unanimity.
The next day South Carolina did concur in it. The votes of Pennsylvania
and Delaware were also changed by the arrival of other members.

Congress then proceeded to consider the declaration of independence. After some amendments [36] it was
approved, and signed by every member present except Mr. Dickenson. [37] [Footnote 35: Mr. Jefferson,
Mr. John Adams, Mr. Franklin, and Mr. R. R. Livingston. Mr. R. H. Lee, the mover of the resolution,
had been compelled by the illness of Mrs. Lee to leave congress the day on which the committee was
appointed.] [Footnote 36: See note No. VI. at the end of the volume.] [Footnote 37: Mr. Jefferson's
Correspondence.] [Sidenote: Independence declared.]{ July 4.} This
declaration was immediately communicated to the armies, who received
it with enthusiasm.

It was also proclaimed throughout the United States, and was generally
approved by those who had engaged in the opposition to the claims of the
British Parliament. Some few individuals, who had been zealous supporters
of all measures which had for their object only a redress of grievances,
and in whose bosoms the hope of accommodation still lingered,-- either
too timid to meet the arduous conflict which this measure rendered
inevitable, or, sincerely believing that the happiness of America
would be best consulted by preserving their political connexion with
Great Britain, viewed the dissolution of that connexion with regret.

Others, who afterwards deserted the American cause, attributed their defection to this measure.
It was also an unfortunate truth, that in the whole country between
New England and the Potowmac, which was now become the great theatre
of action, although the majority was in favour of independence, a
formidable minority existed, who not only refused to act with their
countrymen, but were ready to give to the enemy every aid in their
power.

It can not, however, be questioned, that the declaration of independence
was wise, and well-timed.

The soundest policy required that the war should no longer be a contest between subjects and their
acknowledged sovereign.{ 1776} While congress was deliberating in
Philadelphia on the great question of independence, the British fleet
appeared before New York.

[Sidenote: Lord and Sir William Howe arrive before New York.] On evacuating
Boston, General Howe had retired to Halifax; where he purposed to
remain till reinforcements should arrive from England.

But the situation of his army in that place was so uncomfortable, and the delays in the arrival
of the troops from Europe were so great, that he at length resolved
to sail for New York, with the forces already under his command.{
June 10.}{ July 3& 4.} In the latter end of June, he arrived off Sandy
Hook, in the Grey Hound; and, on the 29th of that month, the first
division of the fleet from Halifax reached that place.

The rear division soon followed; and the troops were landed on Staten
Island, on the third and fourth of July.

They were received with great demonstrations of joy by the inhabitants,
who took the oaths of allegiance to the British crown, and embodied
themselves under the authority of the late Governor Tryon, for the
defence of the island.

Strong assurances were also received from Long
Island, and the neighbouring parts of New Jersey, of the favourable dispositions
of a great proportion of the people to the royal cause.

It was foreseen that the provisions remaining on the small islands about New York, must fall into
the possession of the invading army, and General Washington had intended
to remove them to a place of safety; but, the existing state of public
opinion requiring the co-operation of the several committees, this
measure of wise precaution could not be completely executed; and General
Howe, on his arrival, obtained ample supplies for his army.

The command of the fleet destined for the American service was intrusted
to Lord Howe, the brother of the general; and they were both constituted
commissioners for restoring peace to the colonies, and granting pardons,
with such exceptions as they should think proper to make. He arrived
at Staten Island on the twelfth of July.{ July 12.} The difficulty
of closing the Hudson against an enemy possessing a powerful fleet
was soon demonstrated.

Two frigates passed the batteries without injury, and took a station
which enabled them to cut off the communication by water, between the
army at New York, and that at Ticonderoga. An attempt to set these frigates
on fire failed in its execution, and only a tender was burnt;-- soon
after which these vessels returned to the fleet.

[Sidenote: Circular letter of Lord Howe.]{ July 14.} Lord Howe was
not deterred by the declaration of Independence from trying the influence
of his powers for pacification.

He sent on shore, by a flag, a circular letter, dated off the coast of Massachusetts, addressed
severally to the late governors under the crown, enclosing a declaration,
which he requested them to make public.

This declaration announced his authority to grant pardons to any number
or description of persons, who, during the tumult and disorders of
the times, might have deviated from their just allegiance, and who
might be willing, by a speedy return to their duty, to reap the benefits
of the royal favour; and to declare any colony, town, port, or place,
in the peace and under the protection of the crown, and excepted from
the penal provisions of the act of parliament prohibiting all trade
and intercourse with the colonies.

Assurances were also given that
the meritorious services of all persons who should aid and assist
in restoring public tranquillity in the colonies, or in any parts
thereof, would be duly considered.

About the same time, Lord Howe sent, with a flag, a letter addressed to "George Washington,
esquire," which the General refused to receive, as "it did not acknowledge
the public character with which he was invested by congress, and in
no other character could he have any intercourse with his lordship."

In a resolution approving this proceeding, congress directed, "that
no letter or message be received on any occasion whatever from the
enemy, by the Commander-in-chief, or others, the commanders of the
American army, but such as shall be directed to them in the characters
they respectively sustain."{ July 20.} The commissioners felt some
difficulty in recognizing either the civil or military character conferred
on individuals by the existing powers in America; and yet it was desirable,
either for the purpose of effecting a pacification, or, if that should
be impracticable, of increasing the divisions already existing, to
open negotiations, and hold out the semblance of restoring peace.

They cast
about for means to evade this preliminary obstacle to any discussion
of the terms they were authorized to propose; and, at length, Colonel
Patterson, adjutant general of the British army, was sent on shore
by General Howe, with a letter directed to George Washington,& c.&
c.& c. He was introduced to the general, whom he addressed by the
title of "Excellency;" and, after the usual compliments, opened the
subject of his mission, by saying, that General Howe much regretted
the difficulties which had arisen respecting the address of the letters;
that the mode adopted was deemed consistent with propriety, and was
founded on precedent, in cases of ambassadors and plenipotentiaries,
where disputes or difficulties had arisen about rank; that General
Washington might recollect he had, last summer, addressed a letter
to "the honourable William Howe;" that Lord, and General Howe, did
not mean to derogate from his rank, or the respect due to him, and
that they held his person and character in the highest esteem;-- but
that the direction, with the addition of& c.& c.& c. implied every
thing which ought to follow.

He, still, did not look at her; but answered, while, with deliberate care, he selected a few
brushes from the Chinese jar near the easel, "Venus is always a very popular subject, you know."

She did not speak for a moment or two; and the painter felt her watching him. As he turned
to his canvas--still careful not to look in her direction--she said, suggestively, "I suppose
you could change the face so that no one would know it was I who posed."

The man remembered her carefully acquired reputation for modesty, but held to his purpose,
saying, as if considering the question seriously, "Oh, as for that part; it could be managed
with perfect safety." Then, suddenly, he turned his eyes upon her face, with a gaze so sharp
and piercing that the blood slowly colored neck and cheek.

But the painter did not wait for the blush. He had seen what he wanted and was at work--with
the almost savage intensity that had marked his manner while he had worked upon the portrait
of Sibyl Andrés.

And so, day after day, as he painted, again, the portrait of the woman who Conrad Lagrange
fancifully called "The Age," the artist permitted her to betray her real self--the self that
was so commonly hidden from the world, under the mask of a pretended culture, and the cloak
of a fraudulent refinement. The iron box contained a large amount of greenbacks and government bonds,
which the thieves succeeded in appropriating. Some of these daring robbers were subsequently
arrested and lodged in the White Plains jail, but on the day set for the trial, the sheriff discovered
that his prisoners of the night before, whom he imagined quite secure, had left, without waiting
to say good-bye. Some friends and confederates came to their assistance, released them and drove
them down to the city, from whence they finally reached our sister Kingdom, recently made famous as
the abode of the fashionable defaulter.

The successful perpetration of this bold robbery suggested to a number of idle men the idea
of robbing the freight cars as they remained apparently unguarded on the tracks in the vicinity
of the West Thirtieth street station, and led to the formation of the notorious Tenth Avenue
gang. The cars arriving from the west and other points loaded with valuable goods and merchandise,
offered facilities of a most tempting kind to the members of this gang, and large quantities
nightly disappeared until, week after week, the goods stolen aggregated thousands of dollars
loss to the railroad company. The proximity of the river aided the operations of this gang
very materially, for much of the goods were spirited away with the
assistance of the river thieves and their boats, both sets of thieves
acting, of course, in collusion.

It is a very difficult thing to map out just the precise localities where criminals reside now,
owing, in a great measure, to the efficiency of the present police, who keep evil-doers under constant
surveillance, preventing them remaining long in any one place.

Of course, such streets as are contained in wards of the city where the poorest people dwell
will invariably have their quota of questionable characters; but the days when gangs of roughs,
"toughs" or thieves can flourish in one particular section, it is to be hoped, are matters of the
past.

It is a matter of surprise to other nations, and of congratulation to ourselves, that at the present
such crimes against persons and property as burglary, pocket-picking and highway robbery are
much rarer in proportion than in any other cosmopolitan city in the
world.

To the wealthy resident of Fifth avenue and other noted fashionable thoroughfares, the incidents
of actual every-day life that are here revealed will read like a revelation. To the merchant and
the business man they may probably read like romance. To the thrifty mechanic, however, who occupies
a vastly different social sphere, who hurries to his work in the morning, and with equal haste
seeks to reach his home at night, this chapter may, perhaps, cause a tear to glisten in his
manly eye when the facts, here written for the first time, meet his
gaze, and, may be, are associated with some young male or female relation
or friend who has "gone wrong."

But to the officers of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, and other kindred useful societies,
newspaper men, the police, and others whose daily vocations happen to keep them out late o'nights,
the truths here unfolded are of too frequent occurrence and are too familiar sights to need any
other corroborative evidence than is supplied by their own experience and the exercise of their
own observation.

Youthful vice and depravity, of all grades, is, unfortunately, the natural result of that civilization
which finds its outgrowth in large and necessarily closely-packed communities. Where ground
is dear, poor people must seek rooms in dwellings where the rent
is cheap, and these dwellings are, for the most part, erected in cheap
neighborhoods-- and cheap neighborhoods mean questionable companionships
and associations, and bad associations beget a familiarity with immorality
of all kinds.

No one can question the truth of this. For instance, the honest and industrious mechanic, receiving
fair wages for his work, must hire lodgings or rooms in some tenement; he goes to work during the
day, leaving his wife, if he happens to have one, at home to perform
those hard household duties which fall to the lot of her class; the
children-- and there are generally several, for one of the chief luxuries
within the reach of the poor is children-- are allowed to take care
of themselves as best they can between times; they naturally go to
the streets to play; they have no gardens, with shady graveled walks
running between beds of bright flowers; no nursery, no governesses,
no nurses with French caps, and, shame be it said, hardly any public
parks; there are not even trees in this great city to cast a shade
for these little creatures in summer nor to help break the force of
the wind in winter-- but they play in the streets just the same, and
are under no restraint whatever, and therein lies their temptation.

What wonder that they afterwards people the gilded palaces of vice "up-town," or fill the
prisons of the city and state?

They may be approached by any one, and they are led away by many.

"But I may see it?" she asked, as he laid aside his palette and brushes, and announced that
he was through.

With a quick hand, he drew the curtain. "Not yet; please--not until I am ready."

"Oh!" she cried with a charming air of submitting to one whose wish is law, "How mean of you!
I know it is splendid! Are you satisfied? Is it better than the other? Is it like me?"

"I am sure that it is much better than the other," he replied. "It is as like you as I can
make it."

"And is it as beautiful as the other?"

"It is beautiful--as you are beautiful," he answered.

"I shall tell them all about it, to-morrow night--even if I haven't seen it. And so will Jim
Rutlidge."

Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange spent that evening at the little house next door. The next morning,
the artist shut himself up in his studio. At lunch time, he would not come out. Late in the
afternoon, the novelist went, again, to knock at the door.

The artist called in a voice that rang with triumph, "Come in, old man, come in and help me
celebrate."

Entering, Conrad Lagrange found him; sitting, pale and worn, before his picture--his palette
and brushes still in his hand.

And such a picture!

A moment, the novelist who knew--as few men know--the world that was revealed with such fidelity
in that face upon the canvas, looked; then, with weird and wonderful oaths of delight, he caught
the tired artist and whirled him around the studio, in a triumphant dance.

"You've done it! man--you've done it! It's all there; every rotten, stinking shred of it! Wow!
but it's good--so damned good that it's almost inhuman. I knew you had it in you. I knew it
was in you, all the time--if only you could come alive. God, man! if that could only be exhibited
alongside the other! Look here!"

He dragged the easel that held Sibyl Andrés' portrait to a place beside the one upon which
the canvas just finished rested, and drew back the curtain. The effect was startling.

"'The Spirit of Nature' and 'The Spirit of the Age'," said Conrad Lagrange, in a low tone.

"But you're ruined, my boy," he added gleefully. "You're ruined. These canvases will never
be exhibited Her own, she'll smash when she sees it; and you'll be artistically damned by the
very gods she has invoked to bless you with fame and wealth. Lord, but I envy you! You have
your chance now--a real chance to be worthy your mother's sacrifice.

"Come on, let's get ready for the feast."

Chapter XXIX

The Hand Writing on the Wall

It was November. Nearly a year had passed since that day when the young man on the Golden State
Limited--with the inheritance he had received from his mother's dying lips, and with his solemn
promise to her still fresh in his mind--looked into the eyes of the woman on the platform of
the observation car. That same day, too, he first saw the woman with the disfigured face, and,
for the first time, met the famous Conrad Lagrange.

Aaron King was thinking of these things as he set out, that evening, with his friend, for the
home of Mrs. Taine. He remarked to the novelist that the time seemed, to him, many years.

"To me, Aaron," answered the strange man, "it has been the happiest and--if you would not misunderstand
me--the most satisfying year of my life. And this"--he added, his deep voice betraying his
emotion--"this has been the happiest day of the year. It is your independence day. I shall
always celebrate it as such--I--I have no independence day of my own to celebrate, you know."

Aaron King did not misunderstand. 

[Footnote 79: Letter of Burgoyne.] To facilitate the enterprise, and
be ready to take advantage of its success, Burgoyne moved down the
east side of the Hudson, and threw a bridge of rafts over that river
for the passage of his van, which took post at Saratoga.

At the same time Lieutenant Colonel Brechman, with his corps, was advanced to Batten Hill, in order,
if necessary, to support Colonel Baum. [80] [Footnote 80: Letter of Burgoyne.] On approaching Bennington,
Baum discovered that he should have to encounter a much more considerable force than had been suspected.
The New Hampshire militia, commanded by General Starke, had reached
that place on their way to camp; and, uniting with Colonel Warner,
made in the whole about two thousand men.

Perceiving his danger, Baum halted about four miles from Bennington,
and despatched an express for a reinforcement.

In the mean time, he strengthened
his position by intrenchments. Lieutenant Colonel Brechman was immediately
ordered to his assistance; but, such was the state of the roads that,
though the distance was only twenty-four miles, and his march was
pressed unremittingly from eight in the morning of the 15th, he did
not reach the ground on which Baum had encamped, until four in the
afternoon of the next day.

[81] [Footnote 81: Ibid.] [Sidenote: Is attacked in his intrenchments by General Starke, and entirely
routed.] In the mean time, General Starke determined to attack him
in his intrenchments.

So confident were the provincials belonging to this party, of the attachment of the country to
the royal cause, that the American troops, while making their dispositions
for the attack, were mistaken for armed friends coming to join them.

On discovering his error, Baum prepared for the contest, and made
a gallant defence.

His works however were carried by storm, and great part of his detachment killed, or taken prisoners.
A few escaped into the woods, and saved themselves by flight. [Sidenote:
Brechman advances to Baum's aid, is attacked by Colonel Warner, and
defeated.] Brechman arrived during the pursuit, and obtained from the
fugitives, the first intelligence of the disaster which had befallen
them.

He immediately attacked the parties of militia who were engaged in
the pursuit, and gained some advantage over them.

Fortunately
for the Americans, Colonel Warner [82] came up at this critical juncture
with his continental regiment, and restored, and continued the action,
until the main body of the militia re-assembled, and came to support
him.

Brechman
in turn was compelled to retire; but he maintained the engagement
until dark, when, abandoning his artillery and baggage, he saved his
party under cover of the night.

[Footnote 82: Gordon.] One thousand stand of arms, and nine hundred swords were taken in this battle.
General Burgoyne represented his loss in men at about four hundred; but thirty-two officers,
and five hundred and sixty-four privates, including Canadians and loyalists, were made prisoners.
The number of the dead was not ascertained, because the action with Brechman had been fought in
the woods, and been continued for several miles. The British general therefore must have included
in his estimate of loss, only his European troops.

This important success was soon followed by another of equal influence
on the fate of the campaign.

Fort Schuyler had been fortified with more skill, and was defended with more courage, than St. Leger
had expected. His artillery made no impression on its walls; and his Indians, who were much
better pleased with obtaining plunder and scalps, than besieging fortresses, became intractable, and
manifested great disgust with the service. In this temper, they understood that Arnold was advancing
with a large body of continental troops; and, soon afterwards were told that Burgoyne and his army
had been totally defeated; a report probably founded on the affair at Bennington. Unwilling
to share the misfortune of their friends, they manifested a determination
not to await the arrival of Arnold.

The efforts of St. Leger to detain them being ineffectual, many of
them decamped immediately, and the rest threatened to follow.

[Sidenote: St. Leger abandons the siege of Fort Schuyler, and retreats
to Ticonderoga.] The time for deliberation was past.

The camp was broken up with indications of excessive alarm. The tents were left standing; and
the artillery, with great part of the baggage, ammunition, and provisions, fell into the hands of the
Americans. The retreating army was pursued by a detachment from the garrison; and it was stated by deserters,
that the Indians plundered the remaining baggage of the officers,
and massacred such soldiers as could not keep up with the line of
march.

St. Leger returned to Montreal, whence he proceeded to Ticonderoga,
with the intention of joining General Burgoyne by that route.

The
decisive victory at Bennington, and the retreat of St. Leger from
fort Schuyler, however important in themselves, were still more so
in their consequences.

An army,
which had spread terror and dismay in every direction, which had, previously, experienced no reverse
of fortune, was considered as already beaten; and the opinion became common, that the appearance of
the great body of the people in arms, would secure the emancipation of their country. It was
too an advantage of no inconsiderable importance resulting from this
change of public opinion, that the disaffected became timid, and the
wavering who, had the torrent of success continued, would have made
a merit of contributing their aid to the victor, were no longer disposed
to put themselves and their fortunes in hazard, to support an army
whose fate was so uncertain.

The barbarities which had been perpetrated by the Indians belonging to the invading armies, excited
still more resentment than terror. As the prospect of revenge began to open, their effect became
the more apparent; and their influence on the royal cause was the
more sensibly felt because they had been indiscriminate.

[Sidenote: The murder of Miss M'Crea.] The murder of Miss M'Crea passed through all the papers of
the continent: and the story, being retouched by the hand of more than one master, excited
a peculiar degree of sensibility.

[83] But there were other causes of still greater influence in producing
the events which afterwards took place.

The last reinforcements of continental troops arrived in camp about
this time, and added both courage and strength to the army.

The harvest, which had detained the northern militia upon their farms, was over; and General
Schuyler, whose continued and eminent services had not exempted him from the imputation of being a
traitor, was succeeded by General Gates, who possessed a large share of the public confidence. [Footnote
83: See note No. IX. at the end of the volume.] [Sidenote: General Gates takes command of the Northern
Army.] When Schuyler was directed by congress to resume the command of the northern department,
Gates withdrew himself from it.

When the resolution passed recalling the general officers who had served
in that department, General Washington was requested to name a successor
to Schuyler.

On his expressing a wish to decline this nomination, and representing the inconvenience of removing
all the general officers, Gates was again directed to repair thither and take the command, and
their resolution to recall the brigadiers was suspended until the Commander-in-chief should be
of opinion that it might be carried into effect with safety. Schuyler retained the command until the
arrival of Gates, which was on the 19th of August, and continued his exertions to restore the affairs of
the department, though he felt acutely the disgrace of being recalled in this critical and interesting
state of the campaign.

"It is," said he, in a letter to the Commander-in-chief, "matter of extreme chagrin to me to be deprived
of the command at a time when, soon if ever, we shall probably be enabled to face the enemy; when
we are on the point of taking ground [84] where they must attack to a disadvantage, should our
force be inadequate to facing them in the field; when an opportunity
will, in all probability, occur, in which I might evince that I am
not what congress have too plainly insinuated by taking the command
from me."

[Footnote 84: The islands in the mouth of the Mohawk.] If error be
attributable to the evacuation of Ticonderoga, no portion of it was
committed by Schuyler.

His removal from the command was probably severe and unjust as respected himself; but perhaps
wise as respected America. The frontier towards the lakes was to
be defended by the troops of New England; and, however unfounded their
prejudices against him might be, it was prudent to consult them.

Notwithstanding the difficulties which multiplied around him, Burgoyne remained steady to his
purpose. The disasters at Bennington and on the Mohawk produced no disposition to abandon the
enterprise and save his army.{ September 14.} [Sidenote: Burgoyne encamps on the heights of Saratoga.]
It had now become necessary to recur to the slow and toilsome mode of
obtaining supplies from fort George.

Having, with persevering labour, collected provision for thirty days
in advance, he crossed the Hudson on the 13th and 14th of September,
and encamped on the heights and plains of Saratoga, with a determination
to decide the fate of the expedition in a general engagement.

General Gates, having been joined by all the continental troops destined
for the northern department, and reinforced by large bodies of militia,
had moved from his camp in the islands, and advanced to the neighbourhood
of Stillwater.

[Sidenote: He attacks Gates at Stillwater.]{ September 19.} The bridges between the two armies
having been broken down, the roads being excessively bad, and the country covered with wood, the progress
of the British army down the river was slow. On the night of the 17th, Burgoyne encamped within
four miles of the American army, and the next day was employed in
repairing the bridges between the two camps. [85] In the morning of
the 19th he advanced in full force towards the American left. Morgan
was immediately detached with his corps to observe the enemy, and to
harass his front and flanks.

He fell in with a picket in front of the right wing, which he attacked with vivacity, and drove in upon
the main body. Pursuing with too much ardour, he was met in considerable force, and, after
a severe encounter, was compelled, in turn, to retire in some disorder.

Two regiments being advanced to his assistance, his corps was rallied, and the action became more general.
The Americans were formed in a wood, with an open field in front, and invariably repulsed the British
corps which attacked them; but when they pursued those corps to the main body, they were in turn
driven back to their first ground. Reinforcements were continually brought up, and about four in the
afternoon, upwards of three thousand American troops [86] were closely engaged with the whole
right wing of the British army commanded by General Burgoyne in person.

The conflict was extremely severe, and only terminated with the day.

At dark, the Americans retired to their camp, and the British, who had found great difficulty
in maintaining their ground, lay all night on their arms near the field of battle. [Footnote
85: Letter of Burgoyne.] [Footnote 86: The accounts of the day stated that the Americans were
commanded by General Arnold, but General Wilkinson says that no general officer was in the field.]
In this action the killed and wounded on the part of the Americans
were between three and four hundred.

Among the former were Colonels Coburn and Adams, and several other valuable officers. The British
loss has been estimated at rather more than five hundred men. Each
army claimed the victory; and each believed itself to have beaten
near the whole of the hostile army with only a part of its own force.

The advantage, however, taking all circumstances into consideration,
was decidedly with the Americans.

In a conflict which nearly consumed the day, they found themselves
at least equal to their antagonists.

In every quarter they had acted on the offensive; and, after an encounter for several hours,
had not lost an inch of ground. They had not been driven from the field, but had retired from
it at the close of day, to the camp from which they had marched to battle. Their object, which
was to check the advancing enemy, had been obtained; while that of the
British general had failed.

In the actual state of things, to fight without being beaten was, on their part, victory; while, on the
part of the British, to fight without a decisive victory, was defeat. The Indians, who found themselves
beaten in the woods by Morgan, and restrained from scalping and plundering
the unarmed by Burgoyne, who saw before them the prospect of hard
fighting without profit, grew tired of the service, and deserted in
great numbers.

The Canadians and Provincials were not much more faithful; and Burgoyne
soon perceived that his hopes must rest almost entirely on his European
troops.

With reason, therefore, this action was celebrated throughout the
United States as a victory, and considered as the precursor of the
total ruin of the invading army.

The utmost exultation was displayed, and the militia were stimulated to fly to arms, and complete the
work so happily begun. General Lincoln, in conformity with directions
which have been stated, had assembled a considerable body of New
England militia in the rear of Burgoyne, from which he drew three
parties of about five hundred men each.

One of these was detached under the command of Colonel Brown, to the north end of Lake George, principally
to relieve a number of prisoners who were confined there, but with orders to push his success,
should he be fortunate, as far as prudence would admit.

Colonel Johnson, at the head of another party, marched towards Mount Independence, and Colonel Woodbury,
with a third, was detached to Skeensborough to cover the retreat of
both the others. With the residue, Lincoln proceeded to the camp
of Gates.

Colonel Brown, after marching all night, arrived, at the break of day, on the north end of the
lake, where he found a small post which he carried without opposition. The surprise was complete; and
he took possession of Mount Defiance, Mount Hope, the landing place,
and about two hundred batteaux.

With the loss of only three killed and five wounded, he liberated one hundred American prisoners, and
captured two hundred and ninety-three of the enemy. This success was joyfully proclaimed through
the northern states.

It was believed confidently that Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were recovered; and the militia were
exhorted, by joining their brethren in the army, to insure that event
if it had not already happened. The attempt on those places however
failed.

The garrison repulsed the assailants; who, after a few days, abandoned the siege. On their
return through Lake George in the vessels they had captured, the militia made an attack on Diamond
Island, the depot of all the stores collected at the north end of
the lake.

Being again repulsed, they destroyed the vessels they had taken,
and returned to their former station.

[87] [Footnote 87: Remem.]{ September 21.} The day after the battle of Stillwater, General Burgoyne
took a position almost within cannon shot of the American camp, fortified
his right, and extended his left to the river.

Directly after taking this ground he received a letter from Sir Henry Clinton, informing him that
he should attack fort Montgomery about the 20th of September. The messenger returned with information that
Burgoyne was in extreme difficulty, and would endeavour to wait for
aid until the 12th of October.

[88] [Footnote 88: Letter of Burgoyne.] Both armies retained their position until the 7th of
October. Burgoyne, in the hope of being relieved by Sir Henry Clinton; and Gates, in the confidence
of growing stronger every day.{ October 7.} Having received no farther
intelligence from Sir Henry, and being reduced to the necessity of
diminishing the ration issued to his soldiers, the British general
determined to make one more trial of strength with his adversary.

In execution of this determination, he drew out on his right fifteen hundred choice troops, whom he commanded
in person, assisted by Generals Philips, Reidisel, and Frazer. The right wing was formed within
three-quarters of a mile of the left of the American camp; and a corps of rangers, Indians,
and provincials, was pushed on through secret paths, to show themselves in its rear, and excite alarm in
that quarter. [89] [Footnote 89: Remem.] These movements were perceived by General Gates, who
determined to attack their left, and, at the same time, to fall on their right flank. Poor's brigade,
and some regiments from New Hampshire, were ordered to meet them in front; while Morgan with his rifle
corps made a circuit unperceived, and seized a very advantageous height covered with wood
on their right. As soon as it was supposed that Morgan had gained the ground he intended
to occupy, the attack was made in front and on the left, in great
force.

At this critical moment Morgan poured in a deadly and incessant fire on the front and right
flank.

While the British right wing was thus closely pressed in front, and on its flank, a distinct
division of the American troops was ordered to intercept its retreat to camp, and to separate
it from the residue of the army. Burgoyne perceived the danger of his situation, and ordered the
light infantry under General Frazer, with part of the 24th regiment,
to form a second line, in order to cover the light infantry of the
right, and secure a retreat.

While this movement was in progress, the left of the British right was
forced from its ground, and the light infantry was ordered to its aid.
In the attempt to execute this order, they were attacked by the rifle
corps, with great effect; and Frazer was mortally wounded.

Overpowered by numbers, and pressed on all sides by a superior weight of fire, Burgoyne, with
great difficulty, and with the loss of his field pieces, and great part of his artillery corps, regained
his camp. The Americans followed close in his rear; and assaulted
his works throughout their whole extent.

Towards the close of day, the intrenchments were forced on their right; and General Arnold, with a few men,
actually entered their works; but his horse being killed under him, and himself wounded, the
troops were forced out of them; and it being nearly dark, they desisted
from the assault.

The left of Arnold's division was still more successful. Jackson's regiment of Massachusetts, then led
by Lieutenant Colonel Brooks, turned the right of the encampment, and stormed the works occupied
by the German reserve. Lieutenant Colonel Brechman who commanded in them was killed, and the works
were carried. The orders given by Burgoyne to recover them were not executed; and Brooks maintained
the ground he had gained. Darkness put an end to the action; and the Americans lay all night
with their arms in their hands, about half a mile from the British lines, ready to renew the assault
with the return of day. The advantage they had gained was decisive. They had taken several pieces
of artillery, killed a great number of men, made upwards of two hundred
prisoners, among whom were several officers of distinction, and had
penetrated the lines in a part which exposed the whole to considerable
danger.

Unwilling to risk the events of the next day on the same ground, Burgoyne changed his position in
the course of the night, and drew his whole army into a strong camp on the river heights, extending
his right up the river. This movement extricated him from the danger of being attacked the
ensuing morning by an enemy already in possession of part of his works.{ October 8.} General
Gates perceived the strength of this position, and was not disposed
to hazard an assault.
Wrath gave way to pity; indignation to contempt. In confidence, he smiled to think how little
the girl he loved needed his poor defense against the animalism that dominated the company
she was hired to amuse. With every eye in the room fixed upon her as she played, she was as
far removed from those who had applauded the suggestive words of the dying sensualist as her
music was beyond their true comprehension.

Then it was that the genius of the artist awoke. As the flash of a search-light in the darkness
of night brings out with startling clearness the details of the scene upon which it is turned,
the painter saw before him his picture. With trained eye and carefully acquired skill, he studied
the scene; impressing upon his memory every detail--the rich appointments of the room; the
glittering lights; the gleaming silver and crystal; the sparkling jewels and shimmering laces;
the bare shoulders; the wine-flushed faces and feverish eyes; and, in the seat of honor, the
disease-wasted form and repulsive, sin-marked countenance of Mr. Taine who--almost unconscious
with his exertion--was still feeding the last flickering flame of his lustful life with the
vision of the girl whose beauty his toast had profaned: and in the midst of that company--expressing
as it did the spirit of an age that is ruled by material wealth and dominated by the passions
of the flesh--the center of every eye, yet, still, in her purity and innocence, removed and
apart from them all; standing in her simple dress of white against the background of flowers--the
mountain girl with her violin--offering to them the highest, holiest, gift of the gods--her
music. Upon the girl's lovely, winsome face, was a look, now, of troubled doubt. Her wide,
blue eyes, as she played, were pleading, questioning, half fearful--as though she sensed, instinctively
the presence of the spirit she could not understand; and felt, in spite of the pretense of
the applause that had greeted her, the rejection of her offering.

Not only did the artist, in that moment of conception see his picture and feel the forces that
were expressed by every character in the composition, but the title, even, came to him as clearly
as if Conrad Lagrange had uttered it aloud, "The Feast of Materialism."

Sibyl Andrés finished her music, and quickly withdrew as if to escape the noisy applause. Amid
the sound of the clapping hands and boisterous voices, Mr. Taine, summoning the last of his
wasted strength, again struggled to his feet. With those claw-like hands he held to the table
for support; while--shaking in every limb, his features twisted into a horrid, leering grin--he
looked from face to face of the hushed and silent company; with glazed eyes in which the light
that flickered so feebly was still the light of an impotent lust.

Twice, the man essayed to speak, but could not. The room grew still as death. Then, suddenly--as
they looked--he lifted that yellow, skinny hand, to his wrinkled, ape-like brow, and--partially
loosing, thus, his supporting grip upon the table--fell back, in a ghastly heap of diseased
flesh and fine raiment; in the midst of which blazed the great diamond--as though the cold,
pure beauty of the inanimate stone triumphed in a life more vital than that of its wearer.

His servants carried the unconscious master of the house from the room. Mrs. Taine, excusing
herself, followed.

In the confusion that ensued, the musicians, hidden behind the floral screen, struck up a lively
air. Some of the guests made quiet preparations for leaving. A group of those men--famous in
the world of art and letters--under the influence of the wine they had taken so freely, laughed
loudly at some coarse jest. Others, thinking, perhaps,--if they could be said to think at all,--that
their host's attack was not serious, renewed conversations and bravely attempted to restore
a semblance of animation to the interrupted revelries.

Aaron King worked his way to the side of Conrad Lagrange, "For God's sake, old man, let's get
out of here."

"I'll find Rutlidge or Louise or some one," returned the other, and disappeared.

As the artist waited, through the open door of an adjoining room, he caught sight of Sibyl
Andrés; who, with her violin-case in her hand, was about to leave. Obeying his impulse, he
went to her. 

People are wanting to know how it has come about that TATE's offer of£ 80,000 for Picture Gallery,
with£ 80,000 worth of pictures thrown in to start it, has, after
long correspondence with CHANCELLOR OF EXCHEQUER, been withdrawn.

JOKIM rises to explain. What are you doing here?"

"I beg your pardon," he said. "I did not mean to be rude."

She laughed, then, with a troubled air--"But is it not right for me to be here? It is all right
for me to play for these people, isn't it? Myra didn't want me to come, but we needed the money,
and Mrs. Taine was so generous. I didn't tell you and Mr. Lagrange because I wanted the fun
of surprising you." As he stood looking at her so gravely, she put out her hand impulsively
to his arm. "What is it, oh, what is it? How have I done wrong?"

"You have done no wrong, my dear girl," he answered "It is only that--" 

Immediately after the battle of Brandywine, Admiral Howe sailed for the Delaware, where he expected
to arrive in time to meet and co-operate with the army in and about Philadelphia. But the
winds were so unfavourable, and the navigation of the bay of Delaware
so difficult, that his van did not get into the river until the 4th
of October.

The ships of war and transports which followed, came up from the
sixth to the eighth, and anchored from New Castle to Reedy Island.

The frigates, in advance of the fleet, had not yet succeeded in their endeavours to effect a passage
through the lower double row of chevaux-de-frise. Though no longer protected by the fort at
Billingsport, they were defended by the water force above, and the work was found more difficult
than had been expected.

It was not until the middle of October that the impediments were so far removed as to afford a
narrow and intricate passage through them. In the mean time, the fire from the Pennsylvania shore
had not produced all the effect expected from it; and it was perceived
that greater exertions would be necessary for the reduction of the
works than could safely be made in the present relative situation
of the armies.

Under this impression, General Howe, soon after the return of the
American army to its former camp on the Skippack, withdrew his troops
from Germantown into Philadelphia, as preparatory to a combined attack
by land and water on forts Mercer and Mifflin.

After effecting a passage through the works sunk in the river at Billingsport,
other difficulties still remained to be encountered by the ships of
war.

Several rows of chevaux-de-frise had been sunk about half a mile below Mud Island, which were
protected by the guns of the forts, as well as by the moveable water force. To silence these works,
therefore, was a necessary preliminary to the removal of these obstructions
in the channel.{ October.} [Sidenote: Attack upon Red Bank.] [Sidenote:
Colonel Donop killed and his party repulsed with considerable loss.]
On the 21st of October, a detachment of Hessians, amounting to twelve
hundred men, commanded by Colonel Count Donop, crossed the Delaware
at Philadelphia, with orders to storm the fort at Red Bank.

The fortifications consisted of extensive outer works, within which
was an intrenchment eight or nine feet high, boarded and fraized.

Late in the evening of the twenty-second.

Count Donop appeared before the fort, and attacked it with great
intrepidity.

It was defended with equal resolution. The outer works being too extensive to be manned by the troops in the
fort, were used only to gall the assailants while advancing. On their
near approach, the garrison retired within the inner intrenchment,
whence they poured upon the Hessians a heavy and destructive fire.

Colonel Donop received a mortal wound; and Lieutenant Colonel Mengerode,
the second in command, fell about the same time.

Lieutenant Colonel Minsing, the oldest remaining officer, drew off his troops, and returned
next day to Philadelphia.

The loss of the assailants was estimated by the Americans at four hundred men. The garrison was
reinforced from fort Mifflin, and aided by the galleys which flanked the Hessians in their advance
and retreat. The American loss, in killed and wounded, amounted to only
thirty-two men.

[Sidenote: The Augusta frigate blows up.] The ships having been ordered to co-operate with Count
Donop, the Augusta, with four smaller vessels, passed the lower line
of chevaux-de-frise, opposite to Billingsport, and lay above it, waiting
until the assault should be made on the fort.

The flood tide setting in about the time the attack commenced, they
moved with it up the river.

The obstructions sunk in the Delaware had in some degree changed its channel, in consequence
of which the Augusta and the Merlin grounded, a considerable distance below the second line of
chevaux-de-frise and a strong wind from the north so checked the
rising of the tide, that these vessels could not be floated by the
flood.

Their situation,
however, was not discerned that evening, as the frigates which were
able to approach the fort, and the batteries from the Pennsylvania
shore, kept up an incessant fire on the garrison, till night put an
end to the cannonade.

Early next morning it was recommenced, in the hope that, under its cover, the Augusta and the
Merlin might be got off. The Americans, on discovering their situation, sent four fire ships against
them, but without effect. Cringing, helpless--as
though before some infernal monster--she hid her face; while her husband, struggling for breath
to make her hear, called her every foul name he could master--derided her with fiendish glee--mocked
her, taunted her, cursed her--with words too vile to print. With an oath and a profane wish
for her future upon his lips, the end came. The sensual mouth opened--the diseased wasted limbs
shuddered--the insane light in the lust-worn eyes went out.

With a scream, Mrs. Taine sank unconscious upon the floor beside the bed.

From the lower part of the house came the faint sounds of the few remaining revelers.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange left the house on Fairlands Heights that night, they walked
quickly, as though eager to escape from the brilliantly lighted vicinity. Neither spoke until
they were some distance away. Then the novelist, checking his quick stride, pointed toward
the shadowy bulk of the mountains that heaved their mighty crests and peaks in solemn grandeur
high into the midnight sky.

"Well, boy," he said, "the mountains are still there. { December.} Contrary to expectation, a fleet of transports for the
reception of the troops reached Rhode Island, on its way to Boston,
in the month of December.

But, before its arrival, the preconceived suspicions of congress had ripened into conviction several
circumstances combined to produce this result.

General Burgoyne, dissatisfied with the accommodations prepared for his officers in Boston, had, after
a fruitless correspondence with General Heath, addressed a letter to General Gates, in which he complained
of the inconvenient quarters assigned his officers, as a breach of the articles of the convention. This
complaint was considered by congress as being made for the purpose of
letting in the principle, that the breach of one article of a treaty
discharges the injured party from its obligations.

This suspicion was strengthened by the indiscreet hesitation of General Burgoyne to permit the resolution
requiring a descriptive list of his troops to be executed.

His
subsequent relinquishment of the objection did not remove the impression it had made. It was also alleged,
that the number of transports was not sufficient to convey the troops to Europe; nor was it believed
possible that Sir William Howe could have laid in, so expeditiously,
a sufficient stock of provisions for the voyage.

These objections to the embarkation of Burgoyne's troops were strengthened by some trivial infractions
of the convention, which, it was contended, gave congress a strict right to detain them. It was
stipulated that "the arms" should be delivered up; and it appeared
that several cartouch boxes and other military accoutrements, supposed
to be comprehended in the technical term arms, had been detained.

This was deemed an infraction of the letter of the compact, which, on rigid principle, justified the measures
afterwards adopted by congress. [Sidenote: Congress forbid the embarkation of the British troops
taken at Saratoga.] The whole subject was referred to a committee who reported all the circumstances
of the case, whereupon congress came to several resolutions, enumerating the facts already mentioned,
the last of which was in these words: "Resolved, therefore, that the embarkation of Lieutenant
General Burgoyne, and the troops under his command, be suspended,
until a distinct and explicit ratification of the convention of Saratoga
shall be properly notified by the court of Great Britain to congress."

These resolutions, together with the report on which they were founded,
were transmitted to the several states, and to General Washington.

Two copies of them were sent to General Heath, with directions to deliver one of them to General
Burgoyne, and with farther directions, "to order the vessels which may
have arrived, or which shall arrive, for the transportation of the
army under Lieutenant General Burgoyne, to quit, without delay, the
port of Boston." [Sidenote: Burgoyne permitted to depart.] On receiving these
resolutions, General Burgoyne addressed a letter to congress, containing
papers, on which he founded a defence of his conduct, and insisted
on the embarkation of his army, as stipulated in the convention; but
the committee, to whom these papers were referred, reported their
opinion, after the most attentive consideration of them, to be, "that
nothing therein contained was sufficient to induce congress to recede
from their resolves of the 8th of January last, respecting the convention
of Saratoga."

This application was accompanied by another letter from General Burgoyne, to be delivered if the
army should still be detained, in which, in consideration of the
state of his health, he solicited permission to return to England.

This request was readily granted. The impression made on the British
nation by the capitulation of Burgoyne, notwithstanding the persevering
temper of the king, at length made its way into the cabinet, and produced
resolutions in favour of pacific measures.{ 1778}{ February.} After the
rejection of repeated motions made by the opposition members tending
to the abandonment of the American war, Lord North gave notice, in
the House of Commons, that he had digested a plan of reconciliation
which he designed shortly to lay before the house.

"Second.

 She went to the open door of his bedroom, her hands clenched, her limbs trembling,
her face betraying the agony of her mind.

With Louise, she was leaving that evening, at four o'clock, for the East--with the body of
her husband. She could not go without seeing again the man whom, as Mr. Taine had rightly said,
she loved--loved with the only love of which--because of her environment and life--she was
capable. She still believed in her power over him whose passion she had besieged with all the
lure of her physical beauty, but that which she had seen in his face as he had watched the
girl musician the night of the dinner, filled her with fear. Presently, in her desperation,
when the artist did not return, she seated herself at the table to put upon paper, as best
she could, the things she had come to say.

Her letter finished, she looked at her watch. Calling the Chinaman, she asked for a key to
the studio, explaining that she wished to see her picture. She still hoped for the artist's
return and that her letter would not be necessary. She hoped, too, that in her portrait, which
she had not yet seen, she might find some evidence of the painter's passion for her. She had
not forgotten his saying that he would put upon the canvas what he thought of her, nor could
she fail to recall his manner and her interpretation of it as he had worked upon the picture.

In the studio, she stood before the easel, scarce daring to draw the curtain. But, calling
up in her mind the emotions and thoughts of the hours she had spent in that room alone with
the artist, she was made bold by her reestablished belief in his passion and by her convictions
that were founded upon her own desires. Under the stimulating influence of her thoughts, a
flush of color stole into her cheeks, her eyes grew bright with the light of triumphant anticipation.
With an eager hand she boldly drew aside the curtain.

The picture upon the easel was the artist's portrait of Sibyl Andrés.

With an exclamation that was not unlike fear, Mrs. Taine drew back from the canvas. Looking
at the beautiful painting,--in which the artist had pictured, with unconscious love and an
almost religious fidelity, the spirit of the girl who was so like the flowers among which she
stood,--the woman was moved by many conflicting emotions. Surprise, disappointment admiration,
envy, jealousy, sadness, regret, and anger swept over her. Blinded by bitter tears, with a
choking sob, in an agony of remorse and shame, she turned away her face from the gaze of those
pure eyes. Then, as the flame of her passion withered her shame, hot rage dried her tears,
and she sprang forward with an animal-like fierceness, to destroy the picture. But, even as
she put forth her hand, she hesitated and drew back, afraid. As she stood thus in doubt--halting
between her impulse and her fear--a sound at the door behind her drew her attention. She turned
to face the beautiful original of the portrait Instantly the woman of the world had herself
perfectly in hand.

Sibyl Andrés drew back with an embarrassed, "I beg your pardon. I thought--" and would have fled.

But Mrs. Taine, with perfect cordiality, said quickly, "O how do you do, Miss Andrés; come in."

She seemed so sincere in the welcome that was implied in her voice and manner; while her face,
together with her somber garb of mourning, was so expressive of sadness and grief that the
girl's gentle heart was touched. Going forward, with that natural, dignity that belongs to
those whose minds and hearts are unsullied by habitual pretense of feeling and sham emotions,
Sibyl spoke a few well chosen words of sympathy.

Mrs. Taine received the girl's expression of condolence with a manner that was perfect in its
semblance of carefully controlled sorrow and grief, yet managed, skillfully, to suggest the
wide social distance that separated the widow of Mr. Taine from the unknown, mountain girl.
Then, as if courageously determined not to dwell upon her bereavement, she said, "I was just
looking, again, at Mr. King's picture--for which you posed. It is beautiful, isn't it? He told
me that you were an exceptionally clever model--quite the best he has ever had."

The girl--disarmed by her own genuine feeling of sympathy for the speaker--was troubled at
something that seemed to lie beneath the kindly words of the experienced woman. "To me, it
is beautiful," she returned doubtfully. "But, of course, I don't know. Mr. Lagrange thinks,
though, that it is really a splendid portrait."

Mrs. Taine smiled with a confident air, as one might smile at a child. "Mr. Lagrange, my dear,
is a famous novelist--but he really knows very little of pictures."

"Perhaps you are right," returned Sibyl, simply. "But the picture is not to be shown as a portrait
of me, at all."

Again, that knowing smile. "So I understand, of course. Under the circumstances, you would
scarcely expect it, would you?"

Sibyl, not in the least understanding what the woman meant, answered doubtfully, "No. I--I
did not wish it shown as my portrait."

Mrs. Taine, studying the girl's face, became very earnest in her kindly interest; as if, moved
out of the goodness of her heart, she stooped from her high place to advise and counsel one
of her own sex, who was so wholly ignorant of the world. "I fear, my dear, that you know very
little of artists and their methods."

To which the girl replied, "I never knew an artist before I met Mr. King, this summer, in the
mountains."

Still watching her face closely, Mrs. Taine said, with gentle solicitude, "May I tell you something
for your own good, Miss Andrés?"

"Certainly, if you please, Mrs. Taine."

"An artist," said the older woman, carefully, with an air of positive knowledge, "must find
the subjects for his pictures in life. As he goes about, he is constantly on the look-out for
new faces or figures that are of interest to him--or, that may be used by him to make pictures
of interest. The subjects--or, I should say, the people who pose for him--are nothing at all
to the artist--aside from his picture, you see--no more than his paints and brushes and canvas.
Often, they are professional models, whom he hires as one hires any sort of service, you know.
Sometimes--" she paused as if hesitating, then continued gently--"sometimes they are people
like yourself, who happen to appeal to his artistic fancy, and whom he can persuade to pose
for him."

The girl's face was white. She stared at the woman with pleading, frightened dismay. She made
a pitiful attempt to speak, but could not.

The older woman, watching her, continued, "Forgive me, dear child. I do not wish to hurt you. [Sidenote:
General Washington goes into winter quarters.] Here the Commander-in-chief
communicated to his army, in general orders, the manner in which he
intended to dispose of them during the winter.

He expressed, in strong terms, his approbation of their conduct, presented them with an encouraging
state of the future prospects of their country, exhorted them to bear with continuing fortitude the hardships
inseparable from the position they were about to take, and endeavoured to convince their judgments
that those hardships were not imposed on them by unfeeling caprice, but were necessary for
the good of their country. The winter had set in with great severity,
and the sufferings of the army were extreme. In a few days, however,
these sufferings were considerably diminished by the erection of
logged huts, filled up with mortar, which, after being dried, formed
comfortable habitations, and gave content to men long unused to the
conveniences of life.

The order of a regular encampment was observed; and the only appearance
of winter quarters, was the substitution of huts for tents.{ 1777}
While, with inferior numbers, General Washington maintained a stubborn
contest in the middle states, events of great variety and importance
were passing in the north.

After Sir Guy Carleton had distributed his army, for winter quarters, in the several villages from
the Isle Aux Noix and Montreal to Quebec, General Burgoyne, who had served
under him, embarked for England, in order to communicate a full statement
of affairs in the northern department; and to assist in making arrangements
for the ensuing campaign.

The American army, having been formed for only one year, dissolved of itself at the expiration of that
term, and could scarcely furnish even the appearance of garrisons
in their forts.

The defence of this frontier was assigned to the regiments directed
to be raised in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and the northwestern
parts of New York; but the recruiting service advanced so slowly,
and so much difficulty was found in clothing and arming those who
were enlisted, that it became indispensable to call in the aid of
the militia; and the plan of the campaign on the part of the British
was involved in so much obscurity that General Washington deemed it
adviseable to direct eight of the regiments of Massachusetts to rendezvous
at Peekskill.

[Sidenote: An inquiry into the conduct of General Schuyler, which terminates
to his honour.]{ May 22.} The service of General Schuyler in the northern
department had been more solid than brilliant.

Dissatisfied with his situation, and disgusted with the injustice [77]
he supposed himself to experience, he had for some time meditated a resignation,
and had been retained in the service only by the deep interest he
felt in the struggle of his country for independence. So soon as his
fears for Ticonderoga were removed by the partial opening of Lake
Champlain, he waited in person on congress for the purpose of adjusting
his accounts, obtaining an inquiry into his conduct, and supporting
those necessary measures of defence in the north, which were suggested
by his perfect knowledge of the country.

At his request, a committee, consisting of a member from each state, was appointed to inquire
into his conduct during the time he had held a command in the army. The arduous
services performed by this meritorious officer, when investigated,
were found so far to exceed any estimate which had been made of them,
that congress deemed it essential to the public interest to prevail
on him to retain his commission.

The resolution which fixed his head quarters at Albany was repealed, and he was directed to proceed
forthwith to the northern department, and to take the command of it. [Footnote 77: When the command
of the operating army was given to General Thomas in March 1776, the head quarters of General
Schuyler had been fixed by congress at Albany, and that resolution
remained in force. General Gates was now directed to repair to Ticonderoga
and take command of the army; and Major General St. Clair was ordered
to the same place to serve under him.] On his arrival, he found the
army of the north not only too weak for the objects entrusted to it,
but badly supplied with arms, clothes, and provisions.

From a spy who had been seized near Onion River, he obtained information
that General Burgoyne was at Quebec, and was to command the British
forces in that department so soon as they should march out of Canada.

That while Ticonderoga should be attacked by the main army, Sir John
Johnson, with a strong body of British, Canadians, and Indians, was
to penetrate to the Mohawk by Oswego, and place himself between fort
Stanwix and fort Edward.

[Sidenote: Burgoyne appears before
Ticonderoga.] General Schuyler was sensible of the danger which threatened
him, and made every exertion to meet it.

After completing his arrangements at Ticonderoga for sustaining a siege, he had proceeded
to Albany, for the purpose of attending to his supplies, and of
expediting the march of reinforcements, when he received intelligence
from General St. Clair, who was entrusted with the defence of Ticonderoga,
that Burgoyne had appeared before that place.

In the course of the preceding winter, a plan for penetrating to the Hudson, from Canada, by
the way of the lakes, had been digested in the cabinet of London. General Burgoyne, who assisted
in forming it, was entrusted with its execution, and was to lead a formidable army against Ticonderoga
as soon as the season would permit. At the same time a smaller party under Colonel St. Leger, composed
of Canadians, newly raised Americans, and a few Europeans, aided by a powerful body of Indians,
was to march from Oswego, to enter the country by the way of the Mohawk, and to join the grand army on
the Hudson.{ January 22.} Burgoyne reached Quebec as soon as it was practicable to sail up the
St. Lawrence, and appeared in full force on the river Bouquet, on
the western banks of lake Champlain, much earlier than the American
general had supposed to be possible.

At this place he met the Indians in a grand council, after which he gave them a war feast. Much of
the cruelty afterwards perpetrated by the savages has been attributed
to this unfortunate officer; but justice requires the admission that
his speech was calculated rather to diminish than increase their habitual
ferocity.

He endeavoured to impress on them the distinction between enemies in the field, and the unarmed
inhabitants, many of whom were friends; and, addressing himself to their avarice, promised rewards
for prisoners, but none for scalps.

It was perhaps fortunate for America, that, in some instances, peculiarly calculated to excite
and interest the human feelings, these feeble restraints were disregarded.

After publishing a manifesto at Putnam River, designed to act on the hopes and fears of the
people of the country through which he was to pass, he halted a few days at Crown Point, to
make the necessary dispositions for investing Ticonderoga.{ June 30.}{ July 1.} From Crown Point,
the royal army advanced on both sides the lake, keeping up a communication
between its divisions, by means of the fleet; and on the 1st of July
encamped within four miles of the American works.

A strong party was pushed forward to Three Mile Point; and the fleet anchored just beyond the range
of the guns of the fort. The next day they took possession, without
opposition, of the important post at Mount Hope, which commanded,
in part, the lines on the northern side, and entirely cut off the
communication with lake George.

The weakness of his garrison induced General St. Clair to give up
this post without a struggle.

Believing it to be impracticable to support it without hazarding
a general action, he determined to concentrate his force about Ticonderoga
and Mount Independence.

After taking possession of Mount Hope, the British lines were extended on the western side
of Champlain, from the mountain quite to the lake, so as completely to inclose the garrison on that side.
The German division under Major General Reidisel, which occupied the eastern shore of the lake,
was encamped at Three Mile Point, and had pushed forward a detachment
near the rivulet, which runs east of Mount Independence.{ July.} The
besiegers laboured assiduously to bring up their artillery and complete
their works.

Sugar Hill, a rugged mountain standing at the confluence of the waters
that unite at Ticonderoga, which overlooks the fortress and had been
thought inaccessible, was examined; and the report being that the
ascent, though extremely difficult, was practicable, the work was
immediately commenced, and was pressed with so much vigour that the
batteries might have opened next day.

The garrison was not in a condition to check these operations. The situation of St. Clair was now
at its crisis. Only the ground between the Eastern run and the South River remained open; and this he
was informed would be occupied the next day, so that the investment would be complete. The place must
be immediately evacuated, or maintained at the hazard of losing the garrison when it should be
no longer tenable.

Between these cruel alternations, General St. Clair did not hesitate
to choose the first; but deeming it prudent to take the advice of
a council of war, he convened the general officers, who unanimously
advised the immediate evacuation of the fort.

[Sidenote: Evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence.]{ July
5.} Preparations for the retreat were instantly commenced. The invalids,
the hospital, and such stores as could be moved in the course of the
night, were put on board the batteaux, which proceeded under the
guard of Colonel Long, up the South River to Skeensborough; and, before
day on the morning of the 6th of July, the main body of the army directed
its march to the same place.

In the hope of making considerable progress before his retreat should be discovered, General St.
Clair had ordered the troops to observe the most profound silence, and,
particularly, to set nothing on fire. These judicious orders were disobeyed;
and, before the rear guard was in motion, the house which had been occupied
by General De Fermoy was in flames.

This served as a signal to the besiegers, who immediately entered the works. The main body of the
retreating army was rapidly pursued by Generals Frazer and Reidisel, while General Burgoyne, in person,
followed the detachment under Colonel Long.{ July 6.} The bridge, the boom, and those other works,
the construction of which had employed the labour of ten months, were cut through by nine in
the morning, so as to afford a passage for the Royal George and Inflexible
frigates, as well as for the gun boats, which engaged the American
galleys, about three in the afternoon, near the falls of Skeensborough.

[Sidenote: The American army evacuate Skeensborough and retire to fort
Anne.] In the mean time, three regiments had disembarked at some
distance from the fort, with the intention of attacking it by land,
and cutting off the retreat of the garrison, as well as that of the
detachment in the boats and galleys.

This manoeuvre being discovered, the works and batteaux were set
on fire, and the troops retired to fort Anne.

On this occasion, the baggage of the army, and a great quantity of
military stores, were either destroyed by the Americans, or taken
by the British.

Knowing that he could save his army only by the rapidity of his march, General St. Clair reached
Castletown, thirty miles from Ticonderoga, on the night succeeding the evacuation of the fort.
The rear guard under Colonel Warner halted six miles short of that
place.

Having been augmented by those who from excessive fatigue had fallen out of the line of march,
it amounted to rather more than one thousand men.{ July 7.} [Sidenote:
Colonel Warner attacked by General Frazer and obliged to retreat.]
The next morning at five, they were overtaken and attacked by General
Frazer with eight hundred and fifty men.

The action was warm and well contested. In its commencement, two regiments of militia, which
lay within two miles of Colonel Warner, were ordered to his assistance.
Instead of obeying these orders, they consulted their own safety,
and hastened to Castletown.

Had these orders been executed, the corps which attacked Warner would probably have been cut to
pieces. While the action was maintained with equal spirit on both
sides, General Reidisel arrived with his division of Germans, and the Americans
were routed.

In this action, Colonel Francis, several other officers, and upwards of two hundred men were
left dead on the field; and one colonel, seven captains, ten subalterns, and two hundred and
ten privates were made prisoners.

Near six hundred are supposed to have been wounded, many of whom must have perished in attempting
to escape through the woods towards the inhabited country. The British state their own loss at
thirty-five killed, among whom was one field officer, and one hundred
and forty-four wounded, including two majors, and five inferior officers.

It is scarcely credible, notwithstanding the difference in arms, that
in a well contested action, the disparity in the killed could have
been so considerable.

It is the less probable, as the pursuit was not of long continuance. To avoid that division of
the British army which had proceeded up the North River, St. Clair
changed his route; and directed his march to Rutland, to which place
he ordered Warner also to retire. At Rutland he fell in with several
soldiers who had been separated from their corps, and, two days afterwards,
at Manchester, was joined by Warner with about ninety men. From this
place he proceeded to fort Edward, where he met General Schuyler.

After taking possession of Skeensborough, Burgoyne had found it necessary
to suspend the pursuit, and to give his army refreshment.

The troops were in some disorder; distinct corps were intermingled, and his detachments were
far apart from each other. He determined therefore to halt a few days at that place, in order to
reassemble and arrange his army.{ July 7.} [Sidenote: Colonel Long
evacuates Fort Anne and retires to Fort Edward.] Colonel Long having
been directed to defend fort Anne, the ninth regiment of British,
under Lieutenant Colonel Hill, had been detached against that place.

It being understood that the Americans were in some force, two other
regiments, under Brigadier Powell, were ordered to support the first
party.

Before the arrival of this reinforcement, Colonel Long attacked the
ninth regiment, and a sharp skirmish ensued, in which the British
kept their ground, and the advantage was claimed by both parties. Hearing
that a reinforcement was approaching, Long set fire to the works
at fort Anne, and retired to fort Edward.{ July 7.} At Stillwater,
on his way to Ticonderoga, General Schuyler was informed of the evacuation
of that place; and, on the same day, at Saratoga, of the loss of the
stores at Skeensborough.

He had heard nothing from General St. Clair; and was seriously apprehensive
for that officer and his army, which, after the junction of Colonel
Long, consisted of about fifteen hundred continental troops, and the
same number of militia.

They
were dispirited by defeat, without tents, badly armed, and had lost
great part of their stores and baggage.

The country was generally much alarmed; and even the well affected
discovered more inclination to take care of themselves than to join
the army.

In this gloomy state of things, no officer could have exerted more
diligence and skill than were displayed by Schuyler. Having fixed his head
quarters at fort Edward, he employed to the utmost advantage the short
respite from action which Burgoyne unavoidably gave. The country between
Skeensborough and fort Edward was almost entirely unsettled, was
covered with thick woods, and of a surface extremely rough, and much
intersected with creeks and morasses. To go to her friends, seemed so inevitably the thing that she would do. A few
miles farther, now, and he would see her. He would tell her why he had come. He would claim
the love that he knew was his. And so, with a better heart, he permitted his tired horse to
slacken the pace. They are used by experience or tradition to arbitrary police methods
and prosecutions unhampered by Anglo-Saxon rules of evidence.

When the Italian crook is actually brought to the bar of justice at home, that he will "go"
is generally a foregone conclusion. There need be no complainant in Italy. The government is
the whole thing there. But, in America, if the criminal can "reach" the complaining witness or
"call him off" he has nothing to worry about.

This he knows he can easily do through the terror of the Camorra. 

{ October 18.} General Howe, after uniting his forces at Pell's Point,
moved forward his whole army, except four brigades destined for the
defence of New York, through Pelham's manor, towards New Rochelle.

Some skirmishes took place on the march with a part of Glover's brigade,
in which the conduct of the Americans was mentioned with satisfaction
by the Commander-in-chief; and, as General Howe took post at New
Rochelle, a village on the Sound, General Washington occupied the
heights between that place and the North River.

Brian Oakley spoke quickly; "Sibyl is not here, Aaron."

The artist caught the Ranger's arm. "Do you mean, Brian, that she has not been here to-day?"

"She has not been here," returned the officer, coolly. 

Intelligence of these transactions being received at Williamsburg, a regiment of regulars and
about two hundred minute-men, were ordered down under the command
of Colonel Woodford, [30] for the defence of the inhabitants.

Hearing of their approach, Lord Dunmore took a well chosen position on the north side of Elizabeth
river, at the Great Bridge, where it was necessary for the provincials to cross in order to
reach Norfolk; at which place he had established himself in some
force. I heard Doctor Gordan's 'auto' going up the canyon to Morton's
about an hour ago. Their baby's sick. If Sibyl was on the road, he would have passed her. I'll
throw the saddle on Max, and we'll run over there and see what he knows. And thus he knows that
the chances he takes are comparatively small, including that of conviction
if he is ever tried by a jury of his American peers, who are loath
to find a man guilty whose language and motives they are unable to
understand. I'll call you when I'm ready." He spoke the last word from the door as he went out.

The artist tried to eat; but with little success. Occasionally they have been sent to jail; more
often they have been convicted in their absence-- condannati in contumacia-- and
dare not return to their native land.

Sometimes the offences have been serious, others have been merely technical. At least one popular
Italian banker in New York has been convicted of murder-- but the matter was arranged at home
so that he treats it in a humourous vein. Two other bankers are fugitives from justice, and
at least one editor.

"A man on a horse passed the Station about seven o'clock, going down. Where did the Doctor
pass you?"

"He didn't pass me." 

If any one should chance to buy a paper and offers a nickel, the girl
invariably has no change; when the purchaser, nine times out of ten,
tells her to keep the change.

They are extremely shrewd, smart, intelligent and wide awake.

