"By degrees they got possession nearly of all the reviews and periodical publications; established
a general intercourse, by means of hawkers and pedlars, with the distant provinces; and instituted
an office to supply all schools with teachers; and thus did they acquire unprecedented dominion
over every species of literature, over the minds of all ranks of people, and the education
of the youth, without giving any alarm to the world. The lovers of wit and polite literature
were caught by Voltaire; the men of science were perverted, and children corrupted in the first
rudiments of learning, by D'Alembert and Diderot; stronger appetites were fed by the secret
club of Baron Holbach; the imaginations of the higher orders were set dangerously afloat by
Montesquieu; and the multitude of all ranks was surprised, confounded, and hurried away by
Rousseau. Thus was the public mind in France completely corrupted, and the way prepared for
the dreadful scenes that followed."

But there is also another chapter to the dark history of this "noisome and grievous sore."
The same author says again:

"After Voltaire had broached his system of infidel philosophy, and brought it unto perfection,
it was taken up by the celebrated Dr. Adam Weishaupt, professor of canon law in the University
of Ingolstadt, and by him perfected as a system of light or illuminism. On the 1st of May,
1776, he founded, among the students of the above-named University, a secret society under
the name of the Illuminati, whose avowed object was to diffuse the light of science, these
secret societies being so many radiating centers of light. But the science taught was the most
atrocious infidelity, and its object the overturning of all government and religion. Free masonry,
being in high repute all over Europe when Weishaupt first formed the plan of his society, he
availed himself of its secrecy to introduce his new order, which rapidly spread, by the efforts
of its founders and disciples, through all those countries, and found its way even to the United
States. It would not be possible here to give even an outline of the nature and constitution
of this extraordinary society--of its secrets and mysteries--of the deep dissimulation, consummate
hypocrisy, and shocking impiety of its founder and his associates--of their Jesuitical arts
in concealing their real objects, and their incredible industry and astonishing exertions in
making converts--of the absolute despotism and complete system of espionage established throughout
the order--of the blind obedience exacted of the novices, and the absolute power of life and
death assumed by the order and conceded by the novices--of the pretended morality, real blasphemies,
and absolute atheism of the founder and his tried friends. Reference can only be made to these
things as well-established facts.

"It is important here to bear in mind one or two facts, in order to realize what an engine
of corruption this secret organization of the Illuminati was. One fact is, the high popularity
which these secret societies at that period enjoyed. It was unbounded. There is something which
commends such secret organizations most powerfully to the depraved human nature. Men love them
because they are secret, and because they can wield such tremendous power. The other fact to
be considered, is the absence, to a such vast extent, of the controlling elements of true religion
in the European mind, and its predisposition to skepticism. The Reformation of the Sixteenth
Century had broken the shackles of priestly Papal superstition over the human mind; and [true]
evangelical doctrine not being introduced to supply the vacuum, the mass swung readily over
from the regions of dark superstition to blank atheism. Thus were the elements ready prepared
to hand for such spirits as Voltaire, D'Alembert, Diderot, Weishaupt, and others, to work upon,
and by reason of their secret powerful agencies, to mould to their own liking.

"It was now this damning system of infidelity, under the specious name of philosophy, light,
and science, spread with such untiring industry over the European mind, that unhinged the whole
framework of society, and prepared it, like a vast magazine, for an awful explosion. All the
principles that held society together in the fear of God and future retribution--regard for
human law--respect for magistrates, parents, and the marriage-tie--yea, in the very distinctions
of virtue and vice, had been unsettled or taken away. They had been reasoned down and laughed
out of the world; and when these only restraints, which God has imposed upon human selfishness
and passion were removed, what was then to hold back those fierce passions and that deep selfishness
from the most unbounded excesses? God was no more feared--government was no more sacred--religion
was a delusion--immorality was a lie--virtue was a name--the marriage-tie was a farce--modesty
was refined voluptuousness: and when men were persuaded of these things, society began to roll
and heave under the long swells of that portentous storm of wrath which was soon to break,
in all its desolating fury, over the earth."

In the facts here presented it may be seen how far we are justified in applying to them this
first vial of wrath. The vial was poured out "upon the earth"--on the inhabitants of the ten
kingdoms when in a state of tranquility. This was their condition, unsuspicious of danger,
when the dread infection was spread through society. According to the testimony of Pres. Dwight,
within ten years from the first establishment of the Illuminati, in 1776, "they were established
in great numbers through Germany, Sweden, Prussia, Poland, Austria, Holland, France, Switzerland,
Italy, England, Scotland, and America. They spread with a rapidity which nothing but fact could
have induced any sober mind to believe."

This system of infidelity is well symbolized by a noisome, grevious ulcer, which is loathsome
to the sight, offensive to the smell, corrupting to the body, and productive of awful pain.
That it appeared so to others besides the author of the Revelation is shown by the following
epithets which Burke, the celebrated English orator, applied to the spirit of the French Revolution,
which was only the discharged virus of these ulcers. He styled it "the fever of Jacobinism;"
"the epidemic of atheistical fanaticism;" "an evil lying deep in the corruptions of human nature;"
"such a plague, that the precaution of the most severe quarantine ought to be established against
it." The result, he says, was "the corruption of all morals," "the decomposition of all society."
What greater plague could fall upon Romanism and Protestantism than this fearful scourge of
infidelity?

I have dwelt for a considerable length of time upon this subject, because of its deep interest,
and also because I desired to verify the application of the symbol as much as possible, on
account of its close connection with the pouring out of the vials which follow.

    3. And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it
    became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in
    the sea.

This vial was poured out upon the "sea." The sea is a large body of water within the earth,
subject to violent storms and agitations. As a symbol it would denote some central power or
kingdom within the symbolic earth in a state of revolution. The effects produced by this vial
were two-fold--the waters were changed into blood as of a dead man, and all the living creatures
in the sea died. The waters of the sea represent the inhabitants of this kingdom (see a similar
explanation of water in chap. 17:15) as the earth does the inhabitants of the empire, or the
ten kingdoms. The living creatures in the sea, therefore, could signify the rulers and princes
of the kingdom, as they bear an analagous relation to the people that fishes do to the waters.
The statement that the waters of the sea became "as the blood of a dead man" is doubtless intended
to signify a much more dreadful state of things than if they had simply been changed to blood.
They were converted into black and poisonous, or corrupt, blood. This denotes the vast slaughter
and massacre of the inhabitants of this kingdom; while the death of the living creatures denotes
the extinction of those in power.

It may appear at first that making the conversion of water into blood a symbol of bloodshed
is adopting the literal method of interpretation; but not so, and for the following reason:
The symbol is taken from nature, the waters of the sea representing the inhabitants of the
kingdom. The waters are changed into an unnatural state or element, that of blood, and this
change denotes an analagous one passing upon the inhabitants. Their continuing in life would
be their remaining as waters: their massacre and destruction would be the waters changed to
blood--a horrible and unnatural element. Likewise, the death of the living things in the sea
is a similar destruction overtaking the kings, rulers, and princes.

With our understanding of the nature of the first vial, which prepared the way for the pouring
out of this one, we shall have no difficulty whatever in identifying this symbol with the terrible
convulsions of the French Revolution. It followed as a necessary consequence of the first.
Voltaire and his coadjutors had insulted and trampled in the dust everything held sacred in
human eyes, and this fully prepared the way for the scenes of terror that followed.

In studying these vials the reader should bear in mind constantly the reason why they were
sent as judgments upon the nations of Europe--because of their former oppression of God's people.
From the days when the Popes received their first temporal authority at the hands of the Carlovingian
king, Pepin and Charlemagne, France[11] constituted the real backbone of the Papacy, the very
center of her power and authority, as all history will show. In the fourteenth century the
Papal seat was removed from Rome to Avignon, in France, where it remained for about seventy
years. During this period all the Popes were French, and "all their policies were shaped and
controlled by the French kings." To write a history of the Papacy during the Dark Ages is to
outline the history of France, so closely are their affairs interwoven. Hence it is only natural
that she should be symbolized as the "sea" in this part of the Apocalypse, with the other nations
as tributaries. Ver. 4-6. That the French Revolution was in its effects a terrible blow to
the thrones of despotism throughout Europe is shown by the following quotation from the Encyclopædia
Britannica: "We are coming to the verge of the French Revolution, which surpasses all other
revolutions the world has seen in its completeness, the largeness of its theatre, the long
preparation for it ... its influence on the modern history of Europe." Art. France.

[Footnote 11: Pepin and Charlemagne were, properly speaking, simply German princes reigning
in Gaul. The kingdom of France is usually dated from the accession of the first of the Capetian
kings, late in the tenth century, 987. However, the Frankish nation, of whom the Carlovingian
kings were leaders, laid the foundation of the French kingdom and gave a new name to Gaul--France.]

