The good intentions of the Elector of Bavaria, to include the Emperor in the benefit of the
truce, having been thus rendered unavailing, he felt himself justified in providing for his
own safety.  However hard were the conditions on which the truce was to be purchased, he did
not hesitate to accept it on any terms.  He agreed to the Swedes extending their quarters in
Suabia and Franconia, and to his own being restricted to Bavaria and the Palatinate.  The conquests
which he had made in Suabia were ceded to the allies, who, on their part, restored to him what
they had taken from Bavaria.  Cologne and Hesse Cassel were also included in the truce.  After
the conclusion of this treaty, upon the 14th March, 1647, the French and Swedes left Bavaria,
and in order not to interfere with each other, took up different quarters; the former in Wuertemberg,
the latter in Upper Suabia, in the neighbourhood of the Lake of Constance.  On the extreme
north of this lake, and on the most southern frontier of Suabia, the Austrian town of Bregentz,
by its steep and narrow passes, seemed to defy attack; and in this persuasion, the whole peasantry
of the surrounding villages had with their property taken refuge in this natural fortress.
The rich booty, which the store of provisions it contained, gave reason to expect, and the
advantage of possessing a pass into the Tyrol, Switzerland and Italy, induced the Swedish general
to venture an attack upon this supposed impregnable post and town, in which he succeeded. 
Meantime, Turenne, according to agreement, marched into Wuertemberg, where he forced the Landgrave
of Darmstadt and the Elector of Mentz to imitate the example of Bavaria, and to embrace the
neutrality.

And now, at last, France seemed to have attained the great object of its policy, that of depriving
the Emperor of the support of the League, and of his Protestant allies, and of dictating to
him, sword in hand, the conditions of peace.  Of all his once formidable power, an army, not
exceeding 12,000, was all that remained to him; and this force he was driven to the necessity
of entrusting to the command of a Calvinist, the Hessian deserter Melander, as the casualties
of war had stripped him of his best generals.  But as this war had been remarkable for the
sudden changes of fortune it displayed; and as every calculation of state policy had been frequently
baffled by some unforeseen event, in this case also the issue disappointed expectation; and
after a brief crisis, the fallen power of Austria rose again to a formidable strength.  The
jealousy which France entertained of Sweden, prevented it from permitting the total ruin of
the Emperor, or allowing the Swedes to obtain such a preponderance in Germany, as might have
been destructive to France herself.  Accordingly, the French minister declined to take advantage
of the distresses of Austria; and the army of Turenne, separating from that of Wrangel, retired
to the frontiers of the Netherlands.  Wrangel, indeed, after moving from Suabia into Franconia,
taking Schweinfurt, and incorporating the imperial garrison of that place with his own army,
attempted to make his way into Bohemia, and laid siege to Egra, the key of that kingdom.  To
relieve this fortress, the Emperor put his last army in motion, and placed himself at its head.
But obliged to take a long circuit, in order to spare the lands of Von Schlick, the president
of the council of war, he protracted his march; and on his arrival, Egra was already taken.
Both armies were now in sight of each other; and a decisive battle was momentarily expected,
as both were suffering from want, and the two camps were only separated from each other by
the space of the entrenchments.  But the Imperialists, although superior in numbers, contented
themselves with keeping close to the enemy, and harassing them by skirmishes, by fatiguing
marches and famine, until the negociations which had been opened with Bavaria were brought
to a bearing.

The neutrality of Bavaria, was a wound under which the Imperial court writhed impatiently;
and after in vain attempting to prevent it, Austria now determined, if possible, to turn it
to advantage.  Several officers of the Bavarian army had been offended by this step of their
master, which at once reduced them to inaction, and imposed a burdensome restraint on their
restless disposition.  Even the brave John de Werth was at the head of the malcontents, and
encouraged by the Emperor, he formed a plot to seduce the whole army from their allegiance
to the Elector, and lead it over to the Emperor.  Ferdinand did not blush to patronize this
act of treachery against his father's most trusty ally. He formally issued a proclamation to
the Bavarian troops, in which he recalled them to himself, reminded them that they were the
troops of the empire, which the Elector had merely commanded in name of the Emperor. Fortunately
for Maximilian, he detected the conspiracy in time enough to anticipate and prevent it by the
most rapid and effective measures.

This disgraceful conduct of the Emperor might have justified a reprisal, but Maximilian was
too old a statesman to listen to the voice of passion, where policy alone ought to be heard.
He had not derived from the truce the advantages he expected.  Far from tending to accelerate
a general peace, it had a pernicious influence upon the negociations at Munster and Osnaburg,
and had made the allies bolder in their demands. The French and Swedes had indeed removed from
Bavaria; but, by the loss of his quarters in the Suabian circle, he found himself compelled
either to exhaust his own territories by the subsistence of his troops, or at once to disband
them, and to throw aside the shield and spear, at the very moment when the sword alone seemed
to be the arbiter of right. Before embracing either of these certain evils, he determined to
try a third step, the unfavourable issue of which was at least not so certain, viz., to renounce
the truce and resume the war.

This resolution, and the assistance which he immediately despatched to the Emperor in Bohemia,
threatened materially to injure the Swedes, and Wrangel was compelled in haste to evacuate
that kingdom.  He retired through Thuringia into Westphalia and Lunenburg, in the hope of forming
a junction with the French army under Turenne, while the Imperial and Bavarian army followed
him to the Weser, under Melander and Gronsfeld. His ruin was inevitable, if the enemy should
overtake him before his junction with Turenne; but the same consideration which had just saved
the Emperor, now proved the salvation of the Swedes.  Even amidst all the fury of the conquest,
cold calculations of prudence guided the course of the war, and the vigilance of the different
courts increased, as the prospect of peace approached.  The Elector of Bavaria could not allow
the Emperor to obtain so decisive a preponderance as, by the sudden alteration of affairs,
might delay the chances of a general peace.  Every change of fortune was important now, when
a pacification was so ardently desired by all, and when the disturbance of the balance of power
among the contracting parties might at once annihilate the work of years, destroy the fruit
of long and tedious negociations, and indefinitely protract the repose of Europe.  If France
sought to restrain the Swedish crown within due bounds, and measured out her assistance according
to her successes and defeats, the Elector of Bavaria silently undertook the same task with
the Emperor his ally, and determined, by prudently dealing out his aid, to hold the fate of
Austria in his own hands.  And now that the power of the Emperor threatened once more to attain
a dangerous superiority, Maximilian at once ceased to pursue the Swedes.  He was also afraid
of reprisals from France, who had threatened to direct Turenne's whole force against him if
he allowed his troops to cross the Weser.

Melander, prevented by the Bavarians from further pursuing Wrangel, crossed by Jena and Erfurt
into Hesse, and now appeared as a dangerous enemy in the country which he had formerly defended.
If it was the desire of revenge upon his former sovereign, which led him to choose Hesse for
the scene of his ravage, he certainly had his full gratification.  Under this scourge, the
miseries of that unfortunate state reached their height.  But he had soon reason to regret
that, in the choice of his quarters, he had listened to the dictates of revenge rather than
of prudence.  In this exhausted country, his army was oppressed by want, while Wrangel was
recruiting his strength, and remounting his cavalry in Lunenburg.  Too weak to maintain his
wretched quarters against the Swedish general, when he opened the campaign in the winter of
1648, and marched against Hesse, he was obliged to retire with disgrace, and take refuge on
the banks of the Danube.

France had once more disappointed the expectations of Sweden; and the army of Turenne, disregarding
the remonstrances of Wrangel, had remained upon the Rhine.  The Swedish leader revenged himself,
by drawing into his service the cavalry of Weimar, which had abandoned the standard of France,
though, by this step, he farther increased the jealousy of that power.  Turenne received permission
to join the Swedes; and the last campaign of this eventful war was now opened by the united
armies. Driving Melander before them along the Danube, they threw supplies into Egra, which
was besieged by the Imperialists, and defeated the Imperial and Bavarian armies on the Danube,
which ventured to oppose them at Susmarshausen, where Melander was mortally wounded.  After
this overthrow, the Bavarian general, Gronsfeld, placed himself on the farther side of the
Lech, in order to guard Bavaria from the enemy.

But Gronsfeld was not more fortunate than Tilly, who, in this same position, had sacrificed
his life for Bavaria.  Wrangel and Turenne chose the same spot for passing the river, which
was so gloriously marked by the victory of Gustavus Adolphus, and accomplished it by the same
means, too, which had favoured their predecessor.  Bavaria was now a second time overrun, and
the breach of the truce punished by the severest treatment of its inhabitants.  Maximilian
sought shelter in Salzburgh, while the Swedes crossed the Iser, and forced their way as far
as the Inn.  A violent and continued rain, which in a few days swelled this inconsiderable
stream into a broad river, saved Austria once more from the threatened danger.  The enemy ten
times attempted to form a bridge of boats over the Inn, and as often it was destroyed by the
current.  Never, during the whole course of the war, had the Imperialists been in so great
consternation as at present, when the enemy were in the centre of Bavaria, and when they had
no longer a general left who could be matched against a Turenne, a Wrangel, and a Koenigsmark.
At last the brave Piccolomini arrived from the Netherlands, to assume the command of the feeble
wreck of the Imperialists.  By their own ravages in Bohemia, the allies had rendered their
subsistence in that country impracticable, and were at last driven by scarcity to retreat into
the Upper Palatinate, where the news of the peace put a period to their activity.

Koenigsmark, with his flying corps, advanced towards Bohemia, where Ernest Odowalsky, a disbanded
captain, who, after being disabled in the imperial service, had been dismissed without a pension,
laid before him a plan for surprising the lesser side of the city of Prague. Koenigsmark successfully
accomplished the bold enterprise, and acquired the reputation of closing the thirty years'
war by the last brilliant achievement.  This decisive stroke, which vanquished the Emperor's
irresolution, cost the Swedes only the loss of a single man.  But the old town, the larger
half of Prague, which is divided into two parts by the Moldau, by its vigorous resistance wearied
out the efforts of the Palatine, Charles Gustavus, the successor of Christina on the throne,
who had arrived from Sweden with fresh troops, and had assembled the whole Swedish force in
Bohemia and Silesia before its walls.  The approach of winter at last drove the besiegers into
their quarters, and in the mean time, the intelligence arrived that a peace had been signed
at Munster, on the 24th October.

The colossal labour of concluding this solemn, and ever memorable and sacred treaty, which
is known by the name of the peace of Westphalia; the endless obstacles which were to be surmounted;
the contending interests which it was necessary to reconcile; the concatenation of circumstances
which must have co-operated to bring to a favourable termination this tedious, but precious
and permanent work of policy; the difficulties which beset the very opening of the negociations,
and maintaining them, when opened, during the ever-fluctuating vicissitudes of the war; finally,
arranging the conditions of peace, and still more, the carrying them into effect; what were
the conditions of this peace; what each contending power gained or lost, by the toils and sufferings
of a thirty years' war; what modification it wrought upon the general system of European policy;--these
are matters which must be relinquished to another pen.  The history of the peace of Westphalia
constitutes a whole, as important as the history of the war itself.  A mere abridgment of it,
would reduce to a mere skeleton one of the most interesting and characteristic monuments of
human policy and passions, and deprive it of every feature calculated to fix the attention
of the public, for which I write, and of which I now respectfully take my leave.