CLOTELLE: A TALE OF THE SOUTHERN STATES

by

William Wells Brown

CONTENTS

       I  THE SLAVE'S SOCIAL CIRCLE.
      II  THE NEGRO SALE.
     III  THE SLAVE SPECULATOR.
      IV  THE BOAT-RACE.
       V  THE YOUNG MOTHER.
      VI  THE SLAVE-MARKET.
     VII  THE SLAVE-HOLDING PARSON.
    VIII  A NIGHT IN THE PARSON'S KITCHEN.
      IX  THE MAN OF HONOR.
       X  THE QUADROON'S HOME
      XI  TO-DAY A MISTRESS, TO-MORROW A SLAVE
     XII  THE MOTHER-IN-LAW.
    XIII  A HARD-HEARTED WOMAN.
     XIV  THE PRISON.
      XV  THE ARREST.
     XVI  DEATH IS FREEDOM.
    XVII  CLOTELLE.
   XVIII  A SLAVE-HUNTING PARSON.
     XIX  THE TRUE HEROINE.
      XX  THE HERO OF MANY ADVENTURES.
     XXI  SELF-SACRIFICE.
    XXII  LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT AND WHAT FOLLOWED.
   XXIII  MEETING OF THE COUSINS.
    XXIV  THE LAW AND ITS VICTIM.
     XXV  THE FLIGHT.
    XXVI  THE HERO OF A NIGHT.
   XXVII  TRUE FREEDOM.
  XXVIII  FAREWELL TO AMERICA.
    XXIX  A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.
     XXX  NEW FRIENDS.
    XXXI  THE MYSTERIOUS MEETING.
   XXXII  THE HAPPY MEETING.
  XXXIII  THE HAPPY DAY.
   XXXIV  CLOTELLE MEETS HER FATHER.
    XXXV  THE FATHER'S RESOLVE.

CHAPTER I

THE SLAVE'S SOCIAL CIRCLE.

With the growing population in the Southern States, the increase of mulattoes has been very
great. Society does not frown upon the man who sits with his half-white child upon his knee
whilst the mother stands, a slave, behind his chair. Throughout the Southern States, there
is a class of slaves who, in most of the towns, are permitted to hire their time from their
owners, and who are always expected to pay a high price. This class is the mulatto women, distinguished
for their fascinating beauty. The handsomest of these usually pay the greatest amount for their
time. Many of these women are the favorites of men of property and standing, who furnish them
with the means of compensating their owners, and not a few are dressed in the most extravagant
manner.

A few years ago, among the many slave-women in Richmond, Virginia, who hired their time of
their masters, was Agnes, a mulatto owned by John Graves, Esq., and who might be heard boasting
that she was the daughter of an American Senator. Although nearly forty years of age at the
time of which we write, Agnes was still exceedingly handsome. More than half white, with long
black hair and deep blue eyes, no one felt like disputing with her when she urged her claim
to her relationship with the Anglo-Saxon.

In her younger days, Agnes had been a housekeeper for a young slaveholder, and in sustaining
this relation had become the mother of two daughters. After being cast aside by this young
man, the slave-woman betook herself to the business of a laundress, and was considered to be
the most tasteful woman in Richmond at her vocation.

Isabella and Marion, the two daughters of Agnes, resided with their mother, and gave her what
aid they could in her business. The mother, however, was very choice of her daughters, and
would allow them to perform no labor that would militate against their lady-like appearance.
Agnes early resolved to bring up her daughters as ladies, as she termed it.

As the girls grew older, the mother had to pay a stipulated price for them per month. Her notoriety
as a laundress of the first class enabled her to put an extra charge upon the linen that passed
through her hands; and although she imposed little or no work upon her daughters, she was enabled
to live in comparative luxury and have her daughters dressed to attract attention, especially
at the negro balls and parties.

Although the term "negro ball" is applied to these gatherings, yet a large portion of the men
who attend them are whites. Negro balls and parties in the Southern States, especially in the
cities and towns, are usually made up of quadroon women, a few negro men, and any number of
white gentlemen. These are gatherings of the most democratic character. Bankers, merchants,
lawyers, doctors, and their clerks and students, all take part in these social assemblies upon
terms of perfect equality. The father and son not unfrequently meet and dance alike at a negro
ball.

It was at one of these parties that Henry Linwood, the son of a wealthy and retired gentleman
of Richmond, was first introduced to Isabella, the oldest daughter of Agnes. The young man
had just returned from Harvard College, where he had spent the previous five years. Isabella
was in her eighteenth year, and was admitted by all who knew her to be the handsomest girl,
colored or white, in the city. On this occasion, she was attired in a sky-blue silk dress,
with deep black lace flounces, and bertha of the same. On her well-moulded arms she wore massive
gold bracelets, while her rich black hair was arranged at the back in broad basket plaits,
ornamented with pearls, and the front in the French style (a la Imperatrice), which suited
her classic face to perfection.

Marion was scarcely less richly dressed than her sister.

Henry Linwood paid great attention to Isabella which was looked upon with gratification by
her mother, and became a matter of general conversation with all present. Of course, the young
man escorted the beautiful quadroon home that evening, and became the favorite visitor at the
house of Agnes. It was on a beautiful moonlight night in the month of August when all who reside
in tropical climates are eagerly grasping for a breath of fresh air, that Henry Linwood was
in the garden which surrounded Agnes' cottage, with the young quadroon by his side. He drew
from his pocket a newspaper wet from the press, and read the following advertisement:--

NOTICE.--Seventy-nine negroes will be offered for sale on Monday, September 10, at 12 o'clock,
being the entire stock of the late John Graves in an excellent condition, and all warranted
against the common vices.

Among the above slaves advertised for sale were Agnes and her two daughters. Ere young Linwood
left the quadroon that evening, he promised her that he would become her purchaser, and make
her free and her own mistress.

Mr. Graves had long been considered not only an excellent and upright citizen of the first
standing among the whites, but even the slaves regarded him as one of the kindest of masters.
Having inherited his slaves with the rest of his property, he became possessed of them without
any consultation or wish of his own. He would neither buy nor sell slaves, and was exceedingly
careful, in letting them out, that they did not find oppressive and tyrannical masters. No
slave speculator ever dared to cross the threshold of this planter of the Old Dominion. He
was a constant attendant upon religious worship, and was noted for his general benevolence.
The American Bible Society, the American Tract Society, and the cause of Foreign Missions,
found in him a liberal friend. He was always anxious that his slaves should appear well on
the Sabbath, and have an opportunity of hearing the word of God.

CHAPTER II

THE NEGRO SALE. Men and women, too, who wished to purchase for their own use, had found their
way to the slave sale.

In the midst of the throne was one who felt a deeper interest in the result of the sale than
any other of the bystanders. This was young Linwood.

It was indeed a heart-rending scene to witness the lamentations of these slaves, all of whom
had grown up together on the old homestead of Mr. Graves, and who had been treated with great
kindness by that gentleman, during his life. Now they were to be separated, and form new relations
and companions. Such is the precarious condition of the slave. Even when with a good master,
there is no certainty of his happiness in the future. The mother was first put upon the auction-block,
and sold to a noted negro trader named Jennings. Marion was next ordered to ascend the stand,
which she did with a trembling step, and was sold for $1200.

All eyes were now turned on Isabella, as she was led forward by the auctioneer. The appearance
of the handsome quadroon caused a deep sensation among the crowd.

The auctioneer commenced by saying that Miss Isabella was fit to deck the drawing-room of the
finest mansion in Virginia.

"She was first sprinkled, then immersed, and is now warranted to be a devoted Christian, and
perfectly trustworthy."

"Nine hundred dollars."

"Nine hundred and fifty."

"One thousand."

"Eleven hundred."

At this juncture the scene was indeed a most striking one. She has never been from under her
mother's care. She is virtuous, and as gentle as a dove."

The bids here took a fresh start, and went on until $1800 was reached. The auctioneer once
more resorted to his jokes, and concluded by assuring the company that Isabella was not only
pious, but that she could make an excellent prayer.

"Nineteen hundred dollars."

"Two thousand."

This was the last bid, and the quadroon girl was struck off, and became the property of Henry
Linwood.

This was a Virginia slave-auction, at which the bones, sinews, blood, and nerves of a young
girl of eighteen were sold for $500; her moral character for $200; her superior intellect for
$100; the benefits supposed to accrue from her having been sprinkled and immersed, together
with a warranty of her devoted Christianity, for $300; her ability to make a good prayer for
$200; and her chastity for $700 more.

The slaves were speedily separated, and taken along by their respective masters. Jennings,
the slave-speculator, who had purchased Agnes and her daughter Marion, with several of the
other slaves, took them to the county prison, where he usually kept his human cattle after
purchasing them, previous to starting for the New Orleans market.

Linwood had already provided a place for Isabella, to which she was taken. The most trying
moment for her was when she took leave of her mother and sister. The "Good-by" of the slave
is unlike that of any other class in the community. It is indeed a farewell forever. With tears
streaming down their cheeks, they embraced and commanded each other to God, who is no respecter
of persons, and before whom master and slave must one day appear.

CHAPTER III

THE SLAVE SPECULATOR.

Dick Jennings the slave-speculator, was one of the few Northern men, who go to the South and
throw aside their honest mode of obtaining a living and resort to trading in human beings.
A more repulsive looking person could scarcely be found in any community of bad looking men.
Tall, lean and lank, with high cheek-bones, face much pitted with the small-pox, gray eyes
with red eyebrows, and sandy whiskers, he indeed stood alone without mate or fellow in looks.
Jennings prided himself upon what he called his goodness of heart and was always speaking of
his humanity. In this, he was most successful; for not even Isabella, who had called at the
prison several times to see her mother and sister, was aware of the time that they were to leave.

The slave-trader started at early dawn, and was beyond the confines of the city long before
the citizens were out of their beds. As a slave regards a life on the sugar, cotton, or rice
plantation as even worse than death, they are ever on the watch for an opportunity to escape.
The trader, aware of this, secures his victims in chains before he sets out on his journey.
On this occasion, Jennings had the men chained in pairs, while the women were allowed to go
unfastened, but were closely watched.

After a march of eight days, the company arrived on the banks of the Ohio River, where they
took a steamer for the place of their destination. Jennings had already advertised in the New
Orleans papers, that he would be there with a prime lot of able-bodied slaves, men and women,
fit for field-service, with a few extra ones calculated for house servants,--all between the
ages of fifteen and twenty-five years; but like most men who make a business of speculating
in human beings, he often bought many who were far advanced in years, and would try to pass
them off for five or six years younger than they were.

Pomp, as he was usually called by the trader, was of real negro blood, and would often say,
when alluding to himself, "Dis nigger am no counterfeit, he is de ginuine artikle. Dis chile
is none of your haf-and-haf, dere is no bogus about him."

It was on the second day of the steamer's voyage, that Pompey selected five of the oldest slaves,
took them into a room by themselves, and commenced preparing them for the market.

"Now," said he, addressing himself to the company, "I is de chap dat is to get you ready for
de Orleans market, so dat you will bring marser a good price. How old is you?" addressing himself
to a man not less than forty.

"I can't help nuffin' about dat," returned Pompey; "but when you get into de market and any
one ax you how old you is, and you tell um you is forty or forty-five, marser will tie you
up and cut you all to pieces. But if you tell urn dat you is only thirty, den he won't. Now
remember dat you is thirty years old and no more."

"Well den, I guess I will only be thirty when dey ax me."

"What's your name?" said Pompey, addressing himself to another.

"Jeems."

"Oh! Uncle Jim, is it?"

"Yes."

"Den you must have all them gray whiskers shaved off, and all dem gray hairs plucked out of
your head." This was all said by Pompey in a manner which showed that he know what he was about.

"How old is you?" asked Pompey of a tall, strong-looking man. "What's your name?"

"Yes," replied Toby.

Pompey now gave them all to understand how old they were to be when asked by persons who were
likely to purchase, and then went and reported to his master that the old boys were all right.

"Be sure," said Jennings, "that the niggers don't forget what you have taught them, for our
luck this time in the market depends upon their appearance. If any of them have so many gray
hairs that you cannot pluck them out, take the blacking and brush, and go at them."

CHAPTER IV

THE BOAT-RACE. Nothing can exceed the excitement attendant upon the racing of steamers on the
Mississippi.

By the time the boats had reached Memphis they were side by side, and each exerting itself
to get in advance of the other. The night was clear, the moon shining brightly, and the boats
so near to each other that the passengers were within speaking distance.

The firemen of both boats, who were slaves, were singing songs such as can only be heard on
board a Southern steamer. The boats now came abreast of each other, and nearer and nearer,
until they were locked so that men could pass from one to the other. The wildest excitement
prevailed among the men employed on the steamers, in which the passengers freely participated.
Men were running hither and thither looking for their wives, and women wore flying about in
the wildest confusion seeking for their husbands. Dismay appeared on every countenance.

The saloons and cabins soon looked more like hospitals than anything else; but by this time
the Patriot had drifted to the shore, and the other steamer had come alongside to render assistance
to the disabled boat. The killed and wounded (nineteen in number) were put on shore, and the
Patriot, taken in tow by the Washington, was once more on her journey.

It was half-past twelve, and the passengers, instead of retiring to their berths, once more
assembled at the gambling-tables. The practice of gambling on the western waters has long been
a source of annoyance to the more moral persons who travel on our great rivers. Thousands of
dollars often change owners during a passage from St. Louis or Louisville to New Orleans, on
a Mississippi steamer. Many men are completely ruined on such occasions, and duels are often
the consequence.

"Go call my boy, steward," said Mr. Jones, as he took his cards one by one from the table.

In a few minutes a fine-looking, bright-eyed mulatto boy, apparently about sixteen years of
age, was standing by his master's side at the table.

"I am broke, all but my boy," said Jones, as he ran his fingers through his cards; "but he
is worth a thousand dollars, and I will bet the half of him."

"I will call you," said Thompson, as he laid five hundred dollars at the feet of the boy, who
was standing, on the table, and at the same time throwing down his cards before his adversary.

"You have beaten me," said Jones; and a roar of laughter followed from the other gentleman
as poor Joe stepped down from the table.

"Well, I suppose I owe you half the nigger," said Thompson, as he took hold of Joe and began
examining his limbs.

"Yes," replied Jones, "he is half yours. Let me have five hundred dollars, and I will give
you a bill of sale of the boy."

"Go back to your bed," said Thompson to his chattel, "and remember that you now belong to me."

The poor slave wiped the tears from his eyes, as, in obedience, he turned to leave the table.

"My father gave me that boy," said Jones, as he took the money, "and I hope, Mr. Thompson,
that you will allow me to redeem him."

"Most certainly, Sir," replied Thompson. "Whenever you hand over the cool thousand the negro
is yours."

Next morning, as the passengers were assembling in the cabin and on deck and while the slaves
were running about waiting on or looking for their masters, poor Joe was seen entering his
new master's stateroom, boots in hand.

"Who do you belong to?" inquired a gentleman of an old negro, who passed along leading a fine
Newfoundland dog which he had been feeding.

"When I went to sleep las' night," replied the slave, "I 'longed to Massa Carr; but he bin
gamblin' all night an' I don't know who I 'longs to dis mornin'."

Such is the uncertainty of a slave's life. He goes to bed at night the pampered servant of
his young master, with whom he has played in childhood, and who would not see his slave abused
under any consideration, and gets up in the morning the property of a man whom he has never
before seen.

CHAPTER V

THE YOUNG MOTHER.

On the fourth morning, the Patriot landed at Grand Gulf, a beautiful town on the left bank
of the Mississippi. Among the numerous passengers who came on board at Rodney was another slave-trader,
with nine human chattels which he was conveying to the Southern market. The passengers, both
ladies and gentlemen, were startled at seeing among the new lot of slaves a woman so white
as not to be distinguishable from the other white women on board. She had in her arms a child
so white that no one would suppose a drop of African blood flowed through its blue veins.

No one could behold that mother with her helpless babe, without feeling that God would punish
the oppressor. There she sat, with an expressive and intellectual forehead, and a countenance
full of dignity and heroism, her dark golden locks rolled back from her almost snow-white forehead
and floating over her swelling bosom. The tears that stood in her mild blue eyes showed that
she was brooding over sorrows and wrongs that filled her bleeding heart.

The hearts of the passers-by grew softer, while gazing upon that young mother as she pressed
sweet kisses on the sad, smiling lips of the infant that lay in her lap. The small, dimpled
hands of the innocent creature were slyly hid in the warm bosom on which the little one nestled.
The blood of some proud Southerner, no doubt, flowed through the veins of that child.

When the boat arrived at Natches, a rather good-looking, genteel-appearing man came on board
to purchase a servant. This individual introduced himself to Jennings as the Rev. James Wilson.
The slave-trader conducted the preacher to the deck-cabin, where he kept his slaves, and the
man of God, after having some questions answered, selected Agnes as the one best suited to
his service.

It seemed as if poor Marion's heart would break when she found that she was to be separated
from her mother. The preacher, however, appeared to be but little moved by their sorrow, and
took his newly-purchased victim on shore. Agnes begged him to buy her daughter, but he refused,
on the ground that he had no use for her.

During the remainder of the passage, Marion wept bitterly.

After a ran of a few hours, the boat stopped at Baton Rouge, where an additional number of
passengers were taken on board, among whom were a number of persons who had been attending
the races at that place. Gambling and drinking were now the order of the day. But I sleep more comfortable in it without the blanket
damask and embroidered sheets, mostly without the blanket.

- Man! Then why do you want the good things but for occasions such as this?

I took some odd jobs to make clear to my uncle, who took my slight
resistance, which you sleep better and more carelessly than among
lace and damask, single coverage under the we use every day mere mortals.

-
Well, nothing, son - he said to me at last -: first, your taste, and
that is to be done in this house while you are there ... A good part
comes, cuartajo!

... The quilt will be and how much it interferes with her in the bedroom. Here's a doormat
for your feet ... I think no evil will come to you at bedtime, because these old chestnut soils
are cold as they themselves ... Huh? For this lacenuca, or as you llaméis "there" at the head
of the bed to put the light on top and put in ... See? this ingredient, I do not think that out the
way ... nor is it armchair in the corner ... Come here, come here to see ... As we are mortal
and no free of trouble, and the nights are so long now, and so obscure and so Carrejo cold and mostly
you do not know ... In short, do not tell you more. Well then: here hangers, with their corresponding
overall, nailed to the wall ... and in the opposite empty cupboard, which you can put a clothes
shop ... I think, pispajo! that much you bring, between him and the dresser and hangers, with leftovers
you have to fit ... For your prayers, some use it as a good Christian you are, to go to bed
and leaving her behold, at the head of Our Lord on the cross, and benditera next, with its water
corresponding ramuco bay and blessed, if you want to sprinkle around the room, because the devil
does not rest one point, and slips through the eye of a lock. Here the washstand with all the
accoutrements of cleaning ... and still plenty of room for another much more ... And with that,
I said you're at home. What you trouble, out with it, if something you want and not have it,
ask for it, which, as you have at hand, yours will be ... And now I leave you in peace and your
widths. When finished, warns that we are in the kitchen.

And he was shaking the lantern in one hand and requiring the other shelter that is slipping shoulder,
but coughing a lot and breathing very anxious.



CHAPTER VII

THE SLAVE-HOLDING PARSON. "It is my wish," said he to Mr. Carlingham, an old school-fellow
who was spending a few days with him,--"It is my wish that a new system be adopted on the plantations
in this State. I believe that the sons of Ham should have the gospel, and I intend that mine
shall have it. The gospel is calculated to make mankind better and none should be without it."

"What say you," said Carlingham, "about the right of man to his liberty?"

"Now, Carlingham, you have begun to harp again about men's rights. I really wish that you could
see this matter as I do."'

"I regret that I cannot see eye to eye with you," said Carlingham.

A long discussion followed, in which both gentlemen put forth their peculiar ideas with much
warmth of feeling. Mr. Wilson laughed, appearing rather pleased than otherwise at the manner
in which his daughter had expressed herself.

"Georgiana, my dear, you are an abolitionist,--your talk is fanaticism!" said Mr. Wilson, in
rather a sharp tone; but the subdued look of the girl and the presence of Carlingham caused
him to soften his language.

CHAPTER VIII

A NIGHT IN THE PARSON'S KITCHEN.

Besides Agnes, whom Mr. Wilson had purchased from the slave-trader, Jennings, he kept a number
of house-servants. The chief one of these was Sam, who must be regarded as second only to the
parson himself. He sat at the head of the servants' table in the kitchen, and was master of
the ceremonies.

But there was one drawback to Sam, and that was his color. He was one of the blackest of his
race. This he evidently regarded as a great misfortune; but he endeavored to make up for it
in dress. Tea had been served in "the house," and the servants, including the strangers, had
taken their seats at the table in the kitchen.

"I is bin had my fortune tole last Sunday night," said Sam, while helping one of the girls.

"Indeed!" cried half a dozen voices.

"I 'specs I see somebody blush at dat remark," said Alfred.

"Pass dem pancakes an' 'lasses up dis way, Mr. Alf, and none ob your sinuwashuns here," rejoined
Sam.

"I should tink dat gal wouldn't frow herseff away in dat ar way," said Sally; "She's good lookin'
'nough to git a house-servant, and not hab to put up wid a field-nigger."

"Yes," said Sam, "dat's a werry unsensible remark ob yourn, Miss Sally. I admires your judgment
werry much, I 'sures you. Dar's plenty ob susceptible an' well-dressed house-serbants dat a
gal ob her looks can git widout takin' up wid dem common darkies." This master was a doctor,
and had a large practice among his neighbors, doctoring both masters and slaves. Unfortunately,
he had got hold of the wrong tooth, and the poor man screamed as loud as he could; but it was
to no purpose, for Sam had him fast, and after a pretty severe tussle out came the sound grinder.

On Sam's returning to his master's bedside, the latter said,

"Well, Sam, what do you think is the matter with him?"

"His stomach is out ob order, sar," he replied.

"What do you think had better be done for him?"

"I tink I'd better bleed him and gib him a dose ob calomel," returned Sam.

So, to the latter's gratification, the master let him have his own way.

On one occasion, when making pills and ointment, Sam made a great mistake. He got the preparations
for both mixed together, so that he could not legitimately make either. But fearing that if
he threw the stuff away, his master would flog him, and being afraid to inform his superior
of the mistake, he resolved to make the whole batch of pill and ointment stuff into pills.
He well knew that the powder over the pills would hide the inside, and the fact that most persons
shut their eyes when taking such medicine led the young doctor to feel that all would be right
in the end. Therefore Sam made his pills, boxed them up, put on the labels, and placed them
in a conspicuous position on one of the shelves.

Sam felt a degree of anxiety about his pills, however. It was a strange mixture, and he was
not certain whether it would kill or cure; but he was willing that it should be tried. At last
the young doctor had his vanity gratified. Col. Tallen, one of Dr. Saxondale's patients, drove
up one morning, and Sam as usual ran out to the gate to hold the colonel's horse.

"Call your master," said the colonel; "I will not get out."

The doctor was soon beside the carriage, and inquired about the health of his patient. After
a little consultation, the doctor returned to his office, took down a box of Sam's new pills,
and returned to the carriage.

"Take two of these every morning and night," said the doctor, "and if you don't feel relieved,
double the dose."

"Good gracious," exclaimed Sam in an undertone, when he heard his master tell the colonel how
to take the pills.

It was several days before Sam could learn the result of his new medicine. One afternoon, about
a fortnight after the colonel's visit Sam saw his master's patient riding up to the gate on
horseback. The doctor happened to be in the yard, and met the colonel and said,--

"How are you now?"

"I am entirely recovered," replied the patient. "Those pills of yours put me on my feet the
next day."

"I knew they would," rejoined the doctor.

Sam was near enough to hear the conversation, and was delighted beyond description. The negro
immediately ran into the kitchen, amongst his companions, and commenced dancing.

"What de matter wid you?" inquired the cook.

"I is de greatest doctor in dis country," replied Sam. "Ef you ever get sick, call on me. No
matter what ails you, I is de man dat can cure you in no time. If you do hab de backache, de
rheumaties, de headache, de coller morbus, fits, er any ting else, Sam is de gentleman dat
can put you on your feet wid his pills."

For a long time after, Sam did little else than boast of his skill as a doctor.

We have said that the black doctor was full of wit and good sense. Indeed, in that respect,
he had scarcely an equal in the neighborhood. Although his master resided some little distance
out of the city, Sam was always the first man in all the negro balls and parties in town. When
his master could give him a pass, he went, and when he did not give him one, he would steal
away after his master had retired, and run the risk of being taken up by the night-watch. Of
course, the master never knew anything of the absence of the servant at night without permission.
As the negroes at these parties tried to excel each other in the way of dress, Sam was often
at a loss to make that appearance that his heart desired, but his ready wit ever helped him
in this. When his master had retired to bed at night, it was the duty of Sam to put out the
lights, and take out with him his master's clothes and boots, and leave them in the office
until morning, and then black the boots, brush the clothes, and return them to his master's room.

Having resolved to attend a dress-ball one night, without his master's permission, and being
perplexed for suitable garments, Sam determined to take his master's. So, dressing himself
in the doctor's clothes even to his boots and hat, off the negro started for the city. Being
well acquainted with the usual walk of the patrols he found no difficulty in keeping out of
their way. As might have been expected, Sam was the great gun with the ladies that night.

The next morning, Sam was back home long before his master's time for rising, and the clothes
were put in their accustomed place. For a long time Sam had no difficulty in attiring himself
for parties; but the old proverb that "It is a long lane that has no turning," was verified
in the negro's case. One stormy night, when the rain was descending in torrents, the doctor
heard a rap at his door. It was customary with him, when called up at night to visit a patient,
to ring for Sam. But this time, the servant was nowhere to be found. The doctor struck a light
and looked for clothes; they too, were gone.--It was twelve o'clock, and the doctor's clothes,
hat, boots, and even his watch, were nowhere to be found. Here was a pretty dilemma for a doctor
to be in. It was some time before the physician could fit himself out so as to mike the visit.
At last, however, he started with one of the farm-horses, for Sam had taken the doctor's best
saddle-horse. The doctor felt sure that the negro had robbed him, and was on his way to Canada;
but in this he was mistaken. Sam had gone to the city to attend a ball, and had decked himself
out in his master's best suit. The physician returned before morning, and again retired to
bed but with little hope of sleep, for his thoughts were with his servant and horse. At six
o'clock, in walked Sam with his master's clothes, and the boots neatly blacked. The watch was
placed on the shelf, and the hat in its place. Sam had not met any of the servants, and was
therefore entirely ignorant of what had occurred during his absence.

"What have you been about, sir, and where was you last night when I was called?" said the doctor.

"I don't know, sir. I 'spose I was asleep," replied Sam.

But the doctor was not to be so easily satisfied, after having been put to so much trouble
in hunting up another suit without the aid of Sam. After breakfast, Sam was taken into the
barn, tied up, and severely flogged with the cat, which brought from him the truth concerning
his absence the previous night. This forever put an end to his fine appearance at the negro
parties. Had not the doctor been one of the most indulgent of masters, he would not have escaped
with merely a severe whipping.

As a matter of course, Sam had to relate to his companions that evening in Mr. Wilson's kitchen
all his adventures as a physician while with his old master.

CHAPTER IX

THE MAN OF HONOR. His very looks showed that she had the deepest sympathies of his heart.

Marion had been brought up by her mother to look after the domestic concerns of her cottage
in Virginia, and well knew how to perform the duties imposed upon her. Mrs. Cardinay was much
pleased with her new servant, and often mentioned her good qualities in the presence of Mr. Morton.

After eight months acquaintance with Marion, Morton's sympathies ripened into love, which was
most cordially reciprocated by the friendless and injured child of sorrow. There was but one
course which the young man could honorably pursue, and that was to purchase Marion and make
her his lawful wife; and this he did immediately, for he found Mr. and Mrs. Cardinay willing
to second his liberal intentions.

Dr. Morton soon obtained a large and influential practice in his profession, and with it increased
in wealth; but with all his wealth he never owned a slave. Probably the fact that he had raised
his wife from that condition kept the hydra-headed system continually before him. To the credit
of Marion be it said, she used every means to obtain the freedom of her mother, who had been
sold to Parson Wilson, at Natchez. Her efforts, however, had come too late; for Agnes had died
of a fever before the arrival of Dr. Morton's agent.

Marion found in Adolphus Morton a kind and affectionate husband; and his wish to purchase her
mother, although unsuccessful, had doubly endeared him to her. Ere a year had elapsed from
the time of their marriage, Mrs. Morton presented her husband with a lovely daughter, who seemed
to knit their hearts still closer together. This child they named Jane; and before the expiration
of the second year, they were blessed with another daughter, whom they named Adrika. This was
the spot that Henry Linwood had selected for Isabella, the eldest daughter of Agnes. The young
man hired the house, furnished it, and placed his mistress there, and for many months no one
in his father's family knew where he spent his leisure hours.

When Henry was not with her, Isabella employed herself in looking after her little garden and
the flowers that grew in front of her cottage. The passion-flower peony, dahlia, laburnum,
and other plant, so abundant in warm climates, under the tasteful hand of Isabella, lavished
their beauty upon this retired spot, and miniature paradise.

Although Isabella had been assured by Henry that she should be free and that he would always
consider her as his wife, she nevertheless felt that she ought to be married and acknowledged
by him. But this was an impossibility under the State laws, even had the young man been disposed
to do what was right in the matter. Related as he was, however, to one of the first families
in Virginia, he would not have dared to marry a woman of so low an origin, even had the laws
been favorable.

Here, in this secluded grove, unvisited by any other except her lover, Isabella lived for years.
She had become the mother of a lovely daughter, which its father named Clotelle. The complexion
of the child was still fairer than that of its mother. Indeed, she was not darker than other
white children, and as she grew older she more and more resembled her father.

As time passed away, Henry became negligent of Isabella and his child, so much so, that days
and even weeks passed without their seeing him, or knowing where he was. Becoming more acquainted
with the world, and moving continually in the society of young women of his own station, the
young man felt that Isabella was a burden to him, and having as some would say, "outgrown his
love," he longed to free himself of the responsibility; yet every time he saw the child, he
felt that he owed it his fatherly care.

Henry had now entered into political life, and been elected to a seat in the legislature of
his native State; and in his intercourse with his friends had become acquainted with Gertrude
Miller, the daughter of a wealthy gentleman living near Richmond. Both Henry and Gertrude were
very good-looking, and a mutual attachment sprang up between them.

Instead of finding fault with the unfrequent visits of Henry, Isabella always met him with
a smile, and tried to make both him and herself believe that business was the cause of his
negligence. When he was with her, she devoted every moment of her time to him, and never failed
to speak of the growth and increasing intelligence of Clotelle.

The child had grown so large as to be able to follow its father on his departure out to the
road. But the impression made on Henry's feelings by the devoted woman and her child was momentary.
His heart had grown hard, and his acts were guided by no fixed principle. Henry and Gertrude
had been married nearly two years before Isabella knew anything of the event, and it was merely
by accident that she became acquainted with the facts.

One beautiful afternoon, when Isabella and Clotelle were picking wild strawberries some two
miles from their home, and near the road-side, they observed a one-horse chaise driving past.
The mother turned her face from the carriage not wishing to be seen by strangers, little dreaming
that the chaise contained Henry and his wife. The child, however, watched the chaise, and startled
her mother by screaming out at the top of her voice, "Papa! papa!" and clapped her little hands
for joy. The mother turned in haste to look at the strangers, and her eyes encountered those
of Henry's pale and dejected countenance. Gertrude's eyes were on the child. The swiftness
with which Henry drove by could not hide from his wife the striking resemblance of the child
to himself. The young wife had heard the child exclaim "Papa! papa!" and she immediately saw
by the quivering of his lips and the agitation depicted in his countenance, that all was not right.

"Who is that woman? and why did that child call you papa?" she inquired, with a trembling voice.

Henry was silent; he knew not what to say, and without another word passing between them, they
drove home.

On reaching her room, Gertrude buried her face in her handkerchief and wept. She loved Henry,
and when she had heard from the lips of her companions how their husbands had proved false,
she felt that he was an exception, and fervently thanked God that she had been so blessed.

When Gertrude retired to her bed that night, the sad scene of the day followed her. The beauty
of Isabella, with her flowing curls, and the look of the child, so much resembling the man
whom she so dearly loved, could not be forgotten; and little Clotelle's exclamation of "Papa!
Papa" rang in her ears during the whole night.

The return of Henry at twelve o'clock did not increase her happiness. Feeling his guilt, he
had absented himself from the house since his return from the ride.

CHAPTER XI

TO-DAY A MISTRESS, TO-MORROW A SLAVE

The night was dark, the rain, descended in torrents from the black and overhanging clouds,
and the thunder, accompanied with vivid flashes of lightning, resounded fearfully, as Henry
Linwood stepped from his chaise and entered Isabella's cottage.

More than a fortnight had elapsed since the accidental meeting, and Isabella was in doubt as
to who the lady was that Henry was with in the carriage. Little, however, did she think that
it was his wife. With a smile, Isabella met the young man as he entered her little dwelling.
Clotelle had already gone to bed, but her father's voice roused her from her sleep, and she
was soon sitting on his knee.

The pale and agitated countenance of Henry betrayed his uneasiness, but Isabella's mild and
laughing allusion to the incident of their meeting him on the day of his pleasure-drive, and
her saying, "I presume, dear Henry, that the lady was one of your relatives," led him to believe
that she was still in ignorance of his marriage. She was, in fact, ignorant who the lady was
who accompanied the man she loved on that eventful day. He, aware of this, now acted more like
himself, and passed the thing off as a joke. At heart, however, Isabella felt uneasy, and this
uneasiness would at times show itself to the young man. At last, and with a great effort, she
said,--

"Now, dear Henry, if I am in the way of your future happiness, say so, and I will release you
from any promises that you have made me. I know there is no law by which I can hold you, and
if there was, I would not resort to it. You are as dear to me as ever, and my thoughts shall
always be devoted to you. It would be a great sacrifice for me to give you up to another, but
if it be your desire, as great as the sacrifice is, I will make it. Send me and your child
into a Free State if we are in your way."

Again and again Linwood assured her that no woman possessed his love but her. Oh, what falsehood
and deceit man can put on when dealing with woman's love!

The unabated storm kept Henry from returning home until after the clock had struck two, and
as he drew near his residence he saw his wife standing at the window. Giving his horse in charge
of the servant who was waiting, he entered the house, and found his wife in tears. Although
he had never satisfied Gertrude as to who the quadroon woman and child were, he had kept her
comparatively easy by his close attention to her, and by telling her that she was mistaken
in regard to the child's calling him "papa." His absence that night, however, without any apparent
cause, had again aroused the jealousy of Gertrude; but Henry told her that he had been caught
in the rain while out, which prevented his sooner returning, and she, anxious to believe him,
received the story as satisfactory.

Somewhat heated with brandy, and wearied with much loss of sleep, Linwood fell into a sound
slumber as soon as he retired. Not so with Gertrude. That faithfulness which has ever distinguished
her sex, and the anxiety with which she watched all his movements, kept the wife awake while
the husband slept. His sleep, though apparently sound, was nevertheless uneasy. Again and again
she heard him pronounce the name of Isabella, and more than once she heard him say, "I am not
married; I will never marry while you live." Then he would speak the name of Clotelle and say,
"My dear child, how I love you!"

After a sleepless night, Gertrude arose from her couch, resolved that she would reveal the
whole matter to her mother. Mrs. Miller was a woman of little or no feeling, proud, peevish,
and passionate, thus making everybody miserable that came near her; and when she disliked any
one, her hatred knew no bounds. This Gertrude knew; and had she not considered it her duty,
she would have kept the secret locked in her own heart.

During the day, Mrs. Linwood visited her mother and told her all that had happened. The mother
scolded the daughter for not having informed her sooner, and immediately determined to find
out who the woman and child were that Gertrude had met on the day of her ride. Three days were
spent by Mrs. Miller in this endeavor, but without success.

Four weeks had elapsed, and the storm of the old lady's temper had somewhat subsided, when,
one evening, as she was approaching her daughter's residence, she saw Henry walking, in the
direction of where the quadroon was supposed to reside. Feeling satisfied that the young man
had not seen her, the old women at once resolved to follow him. Linwood's boots squeaked so
loudly that Mrs. Miller had no difficulty in following him without being herself observed.

After a walk of about two miles, the young man turned into a narrow and unfrequented road,
and soon entered the cottage occupied by Isabella. It was a fine starlight night, and the moon
was just rising when they got to their journey's end. As usual, Isabella met Henry with a smile,
and expressed her fears regarding his health.

Hours passed, and still old Mrs. Miller remained near the house, determined to know who lived
there. When she undertook to ferret out anything, she bent her whole energies to it. As Michael
Angelo, who subjected all things to his pursuit and the idea he had formed of it, painted the
crucifixion by the side of a writhing slave and would have broken up the true cross for pencils,
so Mrs. Miller would have entered the sepulchre, if she could have done it, in search of an
object she wished to find.

The full moon had risen, and was pouring its beams upon surrounding objects as Henry stepped
from Isabella's door, and looking at his watch, said,--

"I must go, dear; it is now half-past ten."

Had little Clotelle been awake, she too would have been at the door. As Henry walked to the
gate, Isabella followed with her left hand locked in his. Again he looked at his watch, and
said, "I must go."

"It is more than a year since you staid all night," murmured Isabella, as he folded her convulsively
in his arms, and pressed upon her beautiful lips a parting kiss.

He was nearly out of sight when, with bitter sobs, the quadroon retraced her steps to the door
of the cottage. Clotelle had in the mean time awoke, and now inquired of her mother how long
her father had been gone. At that instant, a knock was heard at the door, and supposing that
it was Henry returning for something he had forgotten, as he frequently did, Isabella flew
to let him in. To her amazement, however, a strange woman stood in the door.

"Who are you that comes here at this late hour?" demanded the half-frightened Isabella.

Without making any reply, Mrs. Miller pushed the quadroon aside, and entered the house.

"What do you want here?" again demanded Isabella.

"I am in search of you," thundered the maddened Mrs. Miller; but thinking that her object would
be better served by seeming to be kind, she assumed a different tone of voice, and began talking
in a pleasing manner.

In this way, she succeeded in finding out the connection existing between Linwood and Isabella,
and after getting all she could out of the unsuspecting woman, she informed her that the man
she so fondly loved had been married for more than two years. Seized with dizziness, the poor,
heart-broken woman fainted and fell upon the floor. How long she remained there she could not
tell; but when she returned to consciousness, the strange woman was gone, and her child was
standing by her side. When she was so far recovered as to regain her feet, Isabella went to
the door, and even into the yard, to see if the old woman was not somewhere about.

As she stood there, the full moon cast its bright rays over her whole person, giving her an
angelic appearance and imparting to her flowing hair a still more golden hue. Suddenly another
change came over her features, and her full red lips trembled as with suppressed emotion. The
muscles around her faultless mouth became convulsed, she gasped for breath, and exclaiming,
"Is it possible that man can be so false!" again fainted.

Clotelle stood and bathed her mother's temples with cold water until she once more revived.

Although the laws of Virginia forbid the education of slaves, Agnes had nevertheless employed
an old free negro to teach her two daughters to read and write. This was now her last hope,
for her heart was torn with grief and filled with all the bitterness of disappointment.

The night passed away, but without sleep to poor Isabella. At the dawn of day, she tried to
make herself believe that the whole of the past night was a dream, and determined to be satisfied
with the explanation which Henry should give on his next visit.

CHAPTER XII

THE MOTHER-IN-LAW.

When Henry returned home, he found his wife seated at the window, awaiting his approach. Secret
grief was gnawing at her heart. Her sad, pale cheeks and swollen eyes showed too well that
agony, far deeper than her speech portrayed, filled her heart. A dull and death-like silence
prevailed on his entrance. His pale face and brow, dishevelled hair, and the feeling that he
manifested on finding Gertrude still up, told Henry in plainer words than she could have used
that his wife, was aware that her love had never been held sacred by him. The window-blinds
were still unclosed, and the full-orbed moon shed her soft refulgence over the unrivalled scene,
and gave it a silvery lustre which sweetly harmonized with the silence of the night. The clock's
iron tongue, in a neighboring belfry, proclaimed the hour of twelve, as the truant and unfaithful
husband seated himself by the side of his devoted and loving wife, and inquired if she was
not well.

"I am, dear Henry," replied Gertrude; "but I fear you are not. If well in body, I fear you
are not at peace in mind."

"Why?" inquired he.

"Because," she replied, "you are so pale and have such a wild look in your eyes."

Again he protested his innocence, and vowed she was the only woman who had any claim upon his
heart. To behold one thus playing upon the feelings of two lovely women is enough to make us
feel that evil must at last bring its own punishment.

Henry and Gertrude had scarcely risen from the breakfast-table next morning ere old Mrs. Miller
made her appearance. She immediately took her daughter aside, and informed her of her previous
night's experience, telling her how she had followed Henry to Isabella's cottage, detailing
the interview with the quadroon, and her late return home alone. The old woman urged her daughter
to demand that the quadroon and her child be at once sold to the negro speculators and taken
out of the State, or that Gertrude herself should separate from Henry.

"Assert your rights, my dear. Let no one share a heart that justly belongs to you," said Mrs.
Miller, with her eyes flashing fire. "Don't sleep this night, my child, until that wench has
been removed from that cottage; and as for the child, hand that over to me,--I saw at once
that it was Henry's."

During these remarks, the old lady was walking up and down the room like a caged lioness. She
had learned from Isabella that she had been purchased by Henry, and the innocence of the injured
quadroon caused her to acknowledge that he was the father of her child. Few women could have
taken such a matter in hand and carried it through with more determination and success than
old Mrs. Miller. Completely inured in all the crimes and atrocities connected with the institution
of slavery, she was also aware that, to a greater or less extent, the slave women shared with
their mistress the affections of their master. This caused her to look with a suspicious eye
on every good-looking negro woman that she saw.

While the old woman was thus lecturing her daughter upon her rights and duties, Henry, unaware
of what was transpiring, had left the house and gone to his office. As soon as the old woman
found that he was gone, she said,--

"I will venture anything that he is on his way to see that wench again. I'll lay my life on it."

The entrance, however, of little Marcus, or Mark, as he was familiarly called, asking for Massa
Linwood's blue bag, satisfied her that her son-in-law was at his office. Before the old lady
returned home, it was agreed that Gertrude should come to her mother's to tea that evening,
and Henry with her, and that Mrs. Miller should there charge the young husband with inconstancy
to her daughter, and demand the removal of Isabella.

With this understanding, the old woman retraced her steps to her own dwelling.

Had Mrs. Miller been of a different character and not surrounded by slavery, she could scarcely
have been unhappy in such a home as hers. Just at the edge of the city, and sheltered by large
poplar-trees was the old homestead in which she resided. There was a splendid orchard in the
rear of the house, and the old weather-beaten sweep, with "the moss-covered bucket" at its
end, swung majestically over the deep well. The garden was scarcely to be equalled. Its grounds
were laid out in excellent taste, and rare exotics in the greenhouse made it still more lovely.

It was a sweet autumn evening, when the air breathed through the fragrant sheaves of grain,
and the setting sun, with his golden kisses, burnished the rich clusters of purple grapes,
that Henry and Gertrude were seen approaching the house on foot; it was nothing more than a
pleasant walk. Oh, how Gertrude's heart beat as she seated herself, on their arrival!

The beautiful parlor, surrounded on all sides with luxury and taste, with the sun creeping
through the damask curtains, added a charm to the scene. It was in this room that Gertrude
had been introduced to Henry, and the pleasant hours that she had spent there with him rushed
unbidden on her memory. It was here that, in former days, her beautiful countenance had made
her appearance as fascinating and as lovely as that of Cleopatra's. Her sweet, musical voice
might have been heard in every part of the house, occasionally thrilling you with an unexpected
touch. How changed the scene! Her pale and wasted features could not be lighted up by any thoughts
of the past, and she was sorrowful at heart.

As usual, the servants in the kitchen were in ecstasies at the announcement that "Miss Gerty,"
as they called their young mistress, was in the house, for they loved her sincerely. Gertrude
had saved them from many a flogging, by interceding for them, when her mother was in one of
her uncontrollable passions. Dinah, the cook, always expected Miss Gerty to visit the kitchen
as soon as she came, and was not a little displeased, on this occasion, at what she considered
her young mistress's neglect. Uncle Tony, too, looked regularly for Miss Gerty to visit the
green house, and congratulate him on his superiority as a gardener.

When tea was over, Mrs. Miller dismissed the servants from the room, then told her son-in-law
what she had witnessed the previous night, and demanded for her daughter that Isabella should
be immediately sent out of the State, and to be sure that the thing would be done, she wanted
him to give her the power to make such disposition of the woman and child as she should think
best. Gertrude was Mrs. Miller's only child, and Henry felt little like displeasing a family
upon whose friendship he so much depended, and, no doubt, long wishing to free himself from
Isabella, he at once yielded to the demands of his mother-in-law. Mr. Miller was a mere cipher
about his premises. If any one came on business connected with the farm, he would invariably
say, "Wait tin I see my wife," and the wife's opinion was sure to be law in every case. Bankrupt
in character, and debauched in body and mind, with seven mulatto children who claimed him as
their father, he was badly prepared to find fault with his son-in-law. It was settled that
Mrs. Miller should use her own discretion in removing Isabella from her little cottage, and
her future disposition. With this understanding Henry and Gertrude returned home. In the deep
recesses of his heart the young man felt that he would like to see his child and its mother
once more; but fearing the wrath of his mother-in-law, he did not dare to gratify his inclination.
He had not the slightest idea of what would become of them; but he well knew that the old woman
would have no mercy on them.

CHAPTER XIII

A HARD-HEARTED WOMAN.

With no one but her dear little Clotelle, Isabella passed her weary hours without partaking
of either food or drink, hoping that Henry would soon return, and that the strange meeting
with the old woman would be cleared up.

While seated in her neat little bedroom with her fevered face buried in her handkerchief, the
child ran in and told its mother that a carriage had stopped in front of the house. With a
palpitating heart she arose from her seat and went to the door, hoping that it was Henry; but,
to her great consternation, the old lady who had paid her such an unceremonious visit on the
evening that she had last seen Henry, stepped out of the carriage, accompanied by the slave-trader,
Jennings.

Isabella had seen the trader when he purchased her mother and sister, and immediately recognized
him. What could these persons want there? thought she. Without any parleying or word of explanation,
the two entered the house, leaving the carriage in charge of a servant.

Clotelle ran to her mother, and clung to her dress as if frightened by the strangers.

"She's a fine-looking wench," said the speculator, as he seated himself, unasked, in the rocking-chair;
"yet I don't think she is worth the money you ask for her."

"What do you want here?" inquired Isabella, with a quivering voice.

"None of your insolence to me," bawled out the old woman, at the top of her voice; "if you
do, I will give you what you deserve so much, my lady,--a good whipping."

In an agony of grief, pale, trembling, and ready to sink to the floor, Isabella was only sustained
by the hope that she would be able to save her child. At last, regaining her self-possession,
she ordered them both to leave the house. Feeling herself insulted, the old woman seized the
tongs that stood by the fire-place, and raised them to strike the quadroon down; but the slave-trader
immediately jumped between the women, exclaiming,--

"I won't buy her, Mrs. Miller, if you injure her."

Poor little Clotelle screamed as she saw the strange woman raise the tongs at her mother. With
the exception of old Aunt Nancy, a free colored woman, whom Isabella sometimes employed to
work for her, the child had never before seen a strange face in her mother's dwelling. Fearing
that Isabella would offer some resistance, Mrs. Miller had ordered the overseer of her own
farm to follow her; and, just as Jennings had stepped between the two women, Mull, the negro-driver,
walked into the room.

"Seize that impudent hussy," said Mrs. Miller to the overseer, "and tie her up this minute,
that I may teach her a lesson she won't forget in a hurry."

As she spoke, the old woman's eyes rolled, her lips quivered, and she looked like a very fury.

"I will have nothing to do with her, if you whip her, Mrs. Miller," said the slave-trader.
"Niggers ain't worth half so much in the market with their backs newly scarred," continued
he, as the overseer commenced his preparations for executing Mrs. Miller's orders.

Clotelle here took her father's walking-stick, which was lying on the back of the sofa where
he had left it, and, raising it, said,--

"If you bad people touch my mother, I will strike you."

They looked at the child with astonishment; and her extreme youth, wonderful beauty, and uncommon
courage, seemed for a moment to shake their purpose. The manner and language of this child
were alike beyond her years, and under other circumstances would have gained for her the approbation
of those present.

"Oh, Henry, Henry!" exclaimed Isabella, wringing her hands.

"You need not call on him, hussy; you will never see him again," said Mrs. Miller.

"What! is he dead?" inquired the heart-stricken woman.

It was then that she forgot her own situation, thinking only of the man she loved. Never having
been called to endure any kind of abusive treatment, Isabella was not fitted to sustain herself
against the brutality of Mrs. Miller, much less the combined ferociousness of the old woman
and the overseer too. Suffice it to say, that instead of whipping Isabella, Mrs. Miller transferred
her to the negro-speculator, who took her immediately to his slave-pen. The unfeeling old woman
would not permit Isabella to take more than a single change of her clothing, remarking to Jennings,--

"I sold you the wench, you know,--not her clothes."

The injured, friendless, and unprotected Isabella fainted as she saw her child struggling to
release herself from the arms of old Mrs. Miller, and as the wretch boxed the poor child's ears.

After leaving directions as to how Isabella's furniture and other effects should be disposed
of, Mrs. Miller took Clotelle into her carriage and drove home. There was not even color enough
about the child to make it appear that a single drop of African blood flowed through its blue
veins.

Considerable sensation was created in the kitchen among the servants when the carriage drove
up, and Clotelle entered the house.

"Jes' like Massa Henry fur all de worl," said Dinah, as she caught a glimpse of the child through
the window.

"Wondah whose brat dat ar' dat missis bringin' home wid her?" said Jane, as she put the ice
in the pitchers for dinner. "I warrant it's some poor white nigger somebody bin givin' her."

The child was white. What should be done to make it look like other negroes, was the question
which Mrs. Miller asked herself.

The callous-hearted old woman bit her nether lip, as she viewed that child, standing before
her, with her long, dark ringlets clustering over her alabaster brow and neck.

"Take this little nigger and cut her hair close to her head," said the mistress to Jane, as
the latter answered the bell.

Clotelle screamed, as she felt the scissors going over her head, and saw those curls that her
mother thought so much of falling upon the floor.

A roar of laughter burst from the servants, as Jane led the child through the kitchen, with
the hair cut so short that the naked scalp could be plainly seen.

"Gins to look like nigger, now," said Dinah, with her mouth upon a grin.

The mistress smiled, as the shorn child reentered the room; but there was something more needed.
The child was white, and that was a great objection. However, she hit upon a plan to remedy
this which seemed feasible. The day was excessively warm. Not a single cloud floated over the
blue vault of heaven; not a breath of wind seemed moving, and the earth was parched by the
broiling sun. Even the bees had stopped humming, and the butterflies had hid themselves under
the broad leaves of the burdock. Without a morsel of dinner, the poor child was put in the
garden, and set to weeding it, her arms, neck and head completely bare. Unaccustomed to toil,
Clotelle wept as she exerted herself in pulling up the weeds. Old Dinah, the cook, was as unfeeling
as her mistress, and she was pleased to see the child made to work in the hot sun.

"Dat white nigger 'll soon be black enuff if missis keeps her workin' out dar," she said, as
she wiped the perspiration from her sooty brow.

Dinah was the mother of thirteen children, all of whom had been taken from her when young;
and this, no doubt, did much to harden her feelings, and make her hate all white persons.

"Dese white niggers always tink dey seff good as white folks," said the cook.

"Yes; but we will teach them better, won't we, Dinah?" rejoined Mrs. Miller.

"Yes, missus," replied Dinah; "I don't like dese merlatter niggers, no how. Dey always want
to set dey seff up for sumfin' big." With this remark the old cook gave one of her coarse laughs,
and continued: "Missis understands human nature, don't she? Ah! ef she ain't a whole team and
de ole gray mare to boot, den Dinah don't know nuffin'."

Of course, the mistress was out of the kitchen before these last marks were made.

It was with the deepest humiliation that Henry learned from one of his own slaves the treatment
which his child was receiving at the hands of his relentless mother-in-law.

The scorching sun had the desired effect; for in less than a fortnight, Clotelle could scarcely
have been recognized as the same child. Often was she seen to weep, and heard to call on her
mother.

Mrs. Miller, when at church on Sabbath, usually, on warm days, took Nancy, one of her servants,
in her pew, and this girl had to fan her mistress during service. Unaccustomed to such a soft
and pleasant seat, the servant would very soon become sleepy and begin to nod. Sometimes she
would go fast asleep, which annoyed the mistress exceedingly. But Mrs. Miller had nimble fingers,
and on them sharp nails, and, with an energetic pinch upon the bare arms of the poor girl,
she would arouse the daughter of Africa from her pleasant dreams. But there was no one of Mrs.
Miller's servants who received as much punishment as old Uncle Tony.

Fond of her greenhouse, and often in the garden, she was ever at the gardener's heels. Uncle
Tony was very religious, and, whenever his mistress flogged him, he invariably gave her a religious
exhortation. Although unable to read, he, nevertheless, had on his tongue's end portions of
Scripture which he could use at any moment. In one end of the greenhouse was Uncle Tony's sleeping
room, and those who happened in that vicinity, between nine and ten at night, could hear the
old man offering up his thanksgiving to God for his protection during the day. Uncle Tony,
however, took great pride, when he thought that any of the whites were within hearing, to dwell,
in his prayer, on his own goodness and the unfitness of others to die. Often was he heard to
say, "O Lord, thou knowest that the white folks are not Christians, but the black people are
God's own children." But if Tony thought that his old mistress was within the sound of his
voice, he launched out into deeper waters.

It was, therefore, on a sweet night, when the bright stars were looking out with a joyous sheen,
that Mark and two of the other boys passed the greenhouse, and heard Uncle Tony in his devotions.

"Let's have a little fun," said the mischievous Marcus to his young companions. "I will make
Uncle Tony believe that I am old mistress, and he'll give us an extra touch in his prayer."
Mark immediately commenced talking in a strain of voice resembling, as well as he could, Mrs.
Miller, and at once Tony was heard to say in a loud voice, "O Lord, thou knowest that the white
people are not fit to die; but, as for old Tony, whenever the angel of the Lord comes, he's
ready." At that moment, Mark tapped lightly on the door. "Who's dar?" thundered old Tony. Mark
made no reply. The old man commenced and went through with the same remarks addressed to the
Lord, when Mark again knocked at the door. "Who dat dar?" asked Uncle Tony, with a somewhat
agitated countenance and trembling voice. Still Mark would not reply. Again Tony took up the
thread of his discourse, and said, "O Lord, thou knowest as well as I do that dese white folks
are not prepared to die, but here is Old Tony, when de angel of de Lord comes, he's ready to
go to heaven." Mark once more knocked at the door. "Who dat dar?" thundered Tony at the top
of his voice.

"De angel of de Lord," replied Mark, in a somewhat suppressed and sepulchral voice.

"What de angel of de Lord want here?" inquired Tony, as if much frightened.

"He's come for poor old Tony, to take him out of the world" replied Mark, in the same strange
voice.

"Dat nigger ain't here; he die tree weeks ago," responded Tony, in a still more agitated and
frightened tone. Mark and his companions made the welkin ring with their shouts at the old
man's answer. Uncle Tony hearing them, and finding that he had been imposed upon, opened his
door, came out with stick in hand, and said, "Is dat you, Mr. Mark? you imp, if I can get to
you I'll larn you how to come here wid your nonsense."

Mark and his companions left the garden, feeling satisfied that Uncle Tony was not as ready
to go with "de angel of de Lord" as he would have others believe.

CHAPTER XIV

THE PRISON.

While poor little Clotelle was being kicked about by Mrs. Miller, on account of her relationship
to her son-in-law, Isabella was passing lonely hours in the county jail, the place to which
Jennings had removed her for safe-keeping, after purchasing her from Mrs. Miller. Incarcerated
in one of the iron-barred rooms of that dismal place, those dark, glowing eyes, lofty brow,
and graceful form wilted down like a plucked rose under a noonday sun, while deep in her heart's
ambrosial cells was the most anguishing distress.

Vulgar curiosity is always in search of its victims, and Jennings' boast that he had such a
ladylike and beautiful woman in his possession brought numbers to the prison who begged of
the jailer the privilege of seeing the slave-trader's prize. Many who saw her were melted to
tears at the pitiful sight, and were struck with admiration at her intelligence; and, when
she spoke of her child, they must have been convinced that a mother's sorrow can be conceived
by none but a mother's heart. The warbling of birds in the green bowers of bliss, which she
occasionally heard, brought no tidings of gladness to her. Their joy fell cold upon her heart,
and seemed like bitter mockery. They reminded her of her own cottage, where, with her beloved
child, she had spent so many happy days.

The speculator had kept close watch over his valuable piece of property, for fear that it might
damage itself. This, however, there was no danger of, for Isabella still hoped and believed
that Henry would come to her rescue. She could not bring herself to believe that he would allow
her to be sent away without at least seeing her, and the trader did all he could to keep this
idea alive in her.

While Isabella, with a weary heart, was passing sleepless nights thinking only of her daughter
and Henry, the latter was seeking relief in that insidious enemy of the human race, the intoxicating
cup. His wife did all in her power to make his life a pleasant and a happy one, for Gertrude
was devotedly attached to him; but a weary heart gets no gladness out of sunshine. The secret
remorse that rankled in his bosom caused him to see all the world blood-shot. He had not visited
his mother-in-law since the evening he had given her liberty to use her own discretion as to
how Isabella and her child should be disposed of. He feared even to go near the house, for
he did not wish to see his child. Gertrude felt this every time he declined accompanying her
to her mother's. Possessed of a tender and confiding heart, entirely unlike her mother, she
sympathized deeply with her husband. She well knew that all young men in the South, to a greater
or less extent, became enamored of the slave-women, and she fancied that his case was only
one of the many, and if he had now forsaken all others for her she did not wish for him to
be punished; but she dared not let her mother know that such were her feelings. Again and again
had she noticed the great resemblance between Clotelle and Henry, and she wished the child
in better hands than those of her cruel mother.

At last Gertrude determined to mention the matter to her husband. Consequently, the next morning,
when they were seated on the back piazza, and the sun was pouring its splendid rays upon everything
around, changing the red tints on the lofty hills in the distance into streaks of purest gold,
and nature seeming by her smiles to favor the object, she said,--

"What, dear Henry, do you intend to do with Clotelle?"

A paleness that overspread his countenance, the tears that trickled down his cheeks, the deep
emotion that was visible in his face, and the trembling of his voice, showed at once that she
had touched a tender chord. Without a single word, he buried his face in his handkerchief,
and burst into tears.

This made Gertrude still more unhappy, for she feared that he had misunderstood her; and she
immediately expressed her regret that she had mentioned the subject. Becoming satisfied from
this that his wife sympathized with him in his unhappy situation, Henry told her of the agony
that filled his soul, and Gertrude agreed to intercede for him with her mother for the removal
of the child to a boarding-school in one of the Free States.

In the afternoon, when Henry returned from his office, his wife met him with tearful eyes,
and informed him that her mother was filled with rage at the mere mention of the removal of
Clotelle from her premises.

In the mean time, the slave-trader, Jennings, had started for the South with his gang of human
cattle, of whom Isabella was one. Most quadroon women who are taken to the South are either
sold to gentlemen for their own use or disposed of as house-servants or waiting-maids. Fortunately
for Isabella, she was sold, for the latter purpose. Jennings found a purchaser for her in the
person of Mr. James French.

Mrs. French was a severe mistress. All who lived with her, though well-dressed, were scantily
fed and over-worked. Isabella found her new situation far different from her Virginia cottage-life.
She had frequently heard Vicksburg spoken of as a cruel place for slaves, and now she was in
a position to test the truthfulness of the assertion.

A few weeks after her arrival, Mrs. French began to show to Isabella that she was anything
but a pleasant and agreeable mistress.

Isabella had been with her new mistress but a short time when she was ordered to cut off her
long and beautiful hair. The negro is naturally fond of dress and outward display. But, however
painful it was to Isabella, she was soon seen with her hair cut short, and the sleeves of her
dress altered to fit tight to her arms. Even with her hair short and with her ill-looking dress,
Isabella was still handsome. Her life had been a secluded one, and though now twenty-eight
years of age, her beauty had only assumed a quieter tone. The other servants only laughed at
Isabella's misfortune in losing her beautiful hair.

Mr. Gordon, the new master, was a man of pleasure. He was the owner of a large sugar plantation,
which he had left under the charge of an overseer, and was now giving himself up to the pleasures
of a city life. At first Mr. Gordon sought to win Isabella's favor by flattery and presents,
knowing that whatever he gave her he could take from her again. The poor innocent creature
dreaded every moment lest the scene should change. At every interview with Gordon she stoutly
maintained that she had left a husband in Virginia, and could never think of taking another.
In this she considered that she was truthful, for she had ever regarded Henry as her husband.
The gold watch and chain and other glittering presents which Gordon gave to her were all kept
unused.

In the same house with Isabella was a man-servant who had from time to time hired himself from
his master. His name was William. He could feel for Isabella, for he, like her, had been separated
from near and dear relatives, and he often tried to console the poor woman.

In a moment afterwards, Isabella feared that she had said too much, and laughingly observed,
"I am always talking some nonsense; you must not heed me."

William was a tall, full-blooded African, whose countenance beamed with intelligence.

"If she can get free with a little money, why not give her what I have?" thought he, and then
resolved to do it.

"I will take the money," said she, "only on one condition, and that is that I effect your escape,
as well as my own."

"How can that be done?" he inquired, eagerly.

"I will assume the disguise of a gentleman, and you that of a servant, and we will thus take
passage in a steamer to Cincinnati, and from thence to Canada."

With full confidence in Isabella's judgment, William consented at once to the proposition.
The clothes were purchased; everything was arranged, and the next night, while Mr. Gordon was
on one of his sprees, Isabella, under the assumed name of Mr. Smith, with William in attendance
as a servant, took passage for Cincinnati in the steamer Heroine.

With a pair of green glasses over her eyes, in addition to her other disguise, Isabella made
quite a gentlemanly appearance. To avoid conversation, however, she kept closely to her state-room,
under the plea of illness.

Meanwhile, William was playing his part well with the servants. He was loudly talking of his
master's wealth, and nothing on the boat appeared so good as in his master's fine mansion.

"I don't like dese steamboats, no how," said he; "I hope when massa goes on anoder journey,
he take de carriage and de hosses."

After a nine-days' passage, the Heroine landed at Cincinnati, and Mr. Smith and his servant
walked on shore.

"William, you are now a free man, and can go on to Canada," said Isabella; "I shall go to Virginia,
in search of my daughter."

This sudden announcement fell heavily upon William's ears, and with tears he besought her not
to jeopardize her liberty in such a manner; but Isabella had made up her mind to rescue her
child if possible.

Taking a boat for Wheeling, Isabella was soon on her way to her native State. Several months
had elapsed since she left Richmond, and all her thoughts were centred on the fate of her dear
Clotelle. It was with a palpitating heart that this injured woman entered the stage-coach at
Wheeling and set out for Richmond.

CHAPTER XV

THE ARREST.

It was late in the evening when the coach arrived at Richmond, and Isabella once more alighted
in her native city.

Unfortunately for Isabella, a disturbance had just broken out among the slave population in
the State of Virginia, and all strangers were treated with suspicion. This man's name was Picquilo.
All negroes were arrested who were found beyond their master's threshold, and all white strangers
were looked upon with suspicion.

Such was the position in which Isabella found affairs when she returned to Virginia in search
of her child.

CHAPTER XVI

DEATH IS FREEDOM.

On receiving intelligence of the arrest of Isabella, Mr. Gordon authorized the sheriff to sell
her to the highest bidder. She was, therefore, sold; the purchaser being the noted negro-trader,
Hope H. Slater, who at once placed her in prison. True to their Virginia instincts, as she
came near, they formed a line across the narrow bridge to intercept her. Seeing how vain would
be any further effort to escape, her resolution was instantly taken. She clasped her hands
convulsively together, raised her tearful and imploring eyes toward heaven, and begged for
the mercy and compassion there which was unjustly denied her on earth; then, exclaiming, "Henry,
Clotelle, I die for thee!" with a single bound, vaulted over, the railing of the bridge, and
sank forever beneath the angry and foaming waters of the river!

Such was the life, and such the death, of a woman whose virtues and goodness of heart would
have done honor to one in a higher station of life, and who, had she been born in any other
land but that of slavery, would have been respected and beloved. What would have been her feelings
if she could have known that the child for whose rescue she had sacrificed herself would one
day be free, honored, and loved in another land?

CHAPTER XVII

CLOTELLE.

The curtain rises seven years after the death of Isabella. During that interval, Henry, finding
that nothing could induce his mother-in-law to relinquish her hold on poor little Clotelle,
and not liking to contend with one on whom a future fortune depended, gradually lost all interest
in the child, and left her to her fate.

Although Mrs. Miller treated Clotelle with a degree of harshness scarcely equalled, when applied
to one so tender in years, still the child grew every day more beautiful, and her hair, though
kept closely cut, seemed to have improved in its soft, silk-like appearance. Now twelve years
of age, and more than usually well-developed, her harsh old mistress began to view her with
a jealous eye.

Henry and Gertrude had just returned from Washington, where the husband had been on his duties
as a member of Congress, and where he had remained during the preceding three years without
returning home. It was on a beautiful evening, just at twilight, while seated at his parlor
window, that Henry saw a young woman pass by and go into the kitchen. Not aware of ever having
seen the person before, he made an errand into the cook's department to see who the girl was.
He, however, met her in the hall, as she was about going out.

"Whom did you wish to see?" he inquired.

"Miss Gertrude," was the reply.

"What did you want to see her for?" he again asked.

"My mistress told me to give her and Master Henry her compliments, and ask them to come over
and spend the evening."

"Who is your mistress?" he eagerly inquired.

"Mrs. Miller, sir," responded the girl.

"And what's your name?" asked Henry, with a trembling voice.

"Clotelle, sir," was the reply.

The astonished father stood completely amazed, looking at the now womanly form of her who,
in his happier days, he had taken on his knee with so much fondness and alacrity. It was then
that he saw his own and Isabella's features combined in the beautiful face that he was then
beholding. It was then that he was carried back to the days when with a woman's devotion, poor
Isabella hung about his neck and told him how lonely were the hours in his absence. He could
stand it no longer. Tears rushed to his eyes, and turning upon his heel, he went back to his
own room. It was then that Isabella was revenged; and she no doubt looked smilingly down from
her home in the spirit-land on the scene below.

On Gertrude's return from her shopping tour, she found Henry in a melancholy mood, and soon
learned its cause. As Gertrude had borne him no children, it was but natural, that he should
now feel his love centering in Clotelle, and he now intimated to his wife his determination
to remove his daughter from the hands of his mother-in-law.

When this news reached Mrs. Miller, through her daughter, she became furious with rage, and
calling Clotelle into her room, stripped her shoulders bare and flogged her in the presence
of Gertrude.

It was nearly a week after the poor girl had been so severely whipped and for no cause whatever,
that her father learned of the circumstance through one of the servants. With a degree of boldness
unusual for him, he immediately went to his mother-in-law and demanded his child. But it was
too late,--she was gone. To what place she had been sent no one could tell, and Mrs. Miller
refused to give any information whatever relative to the girl.

It was then that Linwood felt deepest the evil of the institution under which he was living;
for he knew that his daughter would be exposed to all the vices prevalent in that part of the
country where marriage is not recognized in connection with that class.

CHAPTER XVIII

A SLAVE-HUNTING PARSON.

It was a delightful evening after a cloudless day, with the setting sun reflecting his golden
rays on the surrounding hills which were covered with a beautiful greensward, and the luxuriant
verdure that forms the constant garb of the tropics, that the steamer Columbia ran into the
dock at Natchez, and began unloading the cargo, taking in passengers and making ready to proceed
on her voyage to New Orleans. The plank connecting the boat with the shore had scarcely been
secured in its place, when a good-looking man about fifty years of age, with a white neck-tie,
and a pair of gold-rimmed glasses on, was seen hurrying on board the vessel. Just at that moment
could be seen a stout man with his face pitted with the small-pox, making his way up to the
above-mentioned gentleman.

"How do you do, my dear sir? this is Mr. Wilson, I believe," said the short man, at the same
time taking from his mouth a large chew of tobacco, and throwing it down on the ship's deck.

"You have the advantage of me, sir," replied the tall man.

"Why, don't you know me? My name is Jennings; I sold you a splendid negro woman some years ago."

"Yes, yes," answered the Natchez man. "I remember you now, for the woman died in a few months,
and I never got the worth of my money out of her."

"I could not help that," returned the slave-trader; "she was as sound as a roach when I sold
her to you."

"Oh, yes," replied the parson, "I know she was; but now I want a young girl, fit for house
use,--one that will do to wait on a lady."

"I am your man," said Jennings, "just follow me," continued he, "and I will show you the fairest
little critter you ever saw." And the two passed to the stern of the boat to where the trader
had between fifty and sixty slaves, the greater portion being women.

"There," said Jennings, as a beautiful young woman shrunk back with modesty. "There, sir, is
the very gal that was made for you. If she had been made to your order, she could not have
suited you better."

"Indeed, sir, is not that young woman white?" inquired the parson.

"Oh, no, sir; she is no whiter than you see!"

"But is she a slave?" asked the preacher.

"Yes," said the trader, "I bought her in Richmond, and she comes from an excellent family.
She was raised by Squire Miller, and her mistress was one of the most pious ladies in that
city, I may say; she was the salt of the earth, as the ministers say."

"But she resembles in some respect Agnes, the woman I bought from you," said Mr. Wilson. As
he said the name of Agnes, the young woman started as if she had been struck. Her pulse seemed
to quicken, but her face alternately flushed and turned pale, and tears trembled upon her eyelids.
It was a name she had heard her mother mention, and it brought to her memory those days,--those
happy days, when she was so loved and caressed. This young woman was Clotelle, the granddaughter
of Agnes. The preacher, on learning the fact, purchased her, and took her home, feeling that
his daughter Georgiana would prize her very highly. Clotelle found in Georgiana more a sister
than a mistress, who, unknown to her father, taught the slave-girl how to read, and did much
toward improving and refining Clotelle's manners, for her own sake. Like her mother fond of
flowers, the "Virginia Maid," as she was sometimes called, spent many of her leisure hours
in the garden. Beside the flowers which sprang up from the fertility of soil unplanted and
unattended, there was the heliotrope, sweet-pea, and cup-rose, transplanted from the island
of Cuba. In her new home Clotelle found herself saluted on all sides by the fragrance of the
magnolia. When she went with her young mistress to the Poplar Farm, as she sometimes did, nature's
wild luxuriance greeted her, wherever she cast her eyes.

The rustling citron, lime, and orange, shady mango with its fruits of gold, and the palmetto's
umbrageous beauty, all welcomed the child of sorrow. When at the farm, Huckelby, the overseer,
kept his eye on Clotelle if within sight of her, for he knew she was a slave, and no doubt
hoped that she might some day fall into his hands. But she shrank from his looks as she would
have done from the charm of the rattlesnake. The negro-driver always tried to insinuate himself
into the good opinion of Georgiana and the company that she brought. Knowing that Miss Wilson
at heart hated slavery, he was ever trying to show that the slaves under his charge were happy
and contented. One day, when Georgiana and some of her Connecticut friends were there, the
overseer called all the slaves up to the "great house," and set some of the young ones to dancing.
After awhile whiskey was brought in and a dram given to each slave, in return for which they
were expected to give a toast, or sing a short piece of his own composition; when it came to
Jack's turn he said,--

"The big bee flies high, the little bee makes the honey: the black folks make the cotton, and
the white folks gets the money."

Of course, the overseer was not at all elated with the sentiment contained in Jack's toast.
Mr. Wilson had lately purchased a young man to assist about the house and to act as coachman.
This slave, whose name was Jerome, was of pure African origin, was perfectly black, very fine-looking,
tall, slim, and erect as any one could possibly be. His features were not bad, lips thin, nose
prominent, hands and feet small. His brilliant black eyes lighted up his whole countenance.
His hair which was nearly straight, hung in curls upon his lofty brow. George Combe or Fowler
would have selected his head for a model. He was brave and daring, strong in person, fiery
in spirit, yet kind and true in his affections, earnest in his doctrines. Clotelle had been
at the parson's but a few weeks when it was observed that a mutual feeling had grown up between
her and Jerome. As time rolled on, they became more and more attached to each other. After
satisfying herself that these two really loved, Georgiana advised their marriage. But Jerome
contemplated his escape at some future day, and therefore feared that if married it might militate
against it. He hoped, also, to be able to get Clotelle away too, and it was this hope that
kept him from trying to escape by himself. Dante did not more love his Beatrice, Swift his
Stella, Waller his Saccharissa, Goldsmith his Jessamy bride, or Bums his Mary, than did Jerome
his Clotelle. Unknown to her father, Miss Wilson could permit these two slaves to enjoy more
privileges than any of the other servants. The young mistress taught Clotelle, and the latter
imparted her instructions to her lover, until both could read so as to be well understood.
Jerome felt his superiority, and always declared that no master should ever flog him. Aware
of his high spirit and determination, Clotelle was in constant fear lest some difficulty might
arise between her lover and his master.

One day Mr. Wilson, being somewhat out of temper and irritated at what he was pleased to call
Jerome's insolence, ordered him to follow him to the barn to be flogged. The young slave obeyed
his master, but those who saw him at the moment felt that he would not submit to be whipped.

"No, sir," replied Jerome, as his master told him to take off his coat: "I will serve you,
Master Wilson, I will labor for you day and night, if you demand it, but I will not be whipped."

This was too much for a white man to stand from a negro, and the preacher seized his slave
by the throat, intending to choke him. But for once he found his match. Jerome knocked him
down, and then escaped through the back-yard to the street, and from thence to the woods.

Recovering somewhat from the effect of his fall, the parson regained his feet and started in
pursuit of the fugitive. Finding, however, that the slave was beyond his reach, he at once
resolved to put the dogs on his track. Tabor, the negro-catcher, was sent for, and in less
than an hour, eight or ten men, including the parson, were in the woods with hounds, trying
the trails. Whenever there is to be a negro hunt, there is no lack of participants. Many go
to enjoy the fun which it is said they derive from these scenes.

The company had been in the woods but a short time ere they got on the track of two fugitives,
one of whom was Jerome. The slaves immediately bent their steps toward the swamp, with the
hope that the dogs, when put upon their scent would be unable to follow them through the water.
Nearer and nearer the whimpering pack pressed on; their delusion begins to dispel.

They at last reach the river, and in the negroes plunge, followed by the catch-dog. Jerome
is caught and is once more in the hands of his master, while the other poor fellow finds a
watery grave. They return, and the preacher sends his slave to jail.

CHAPTER XIX

THE TRUE HEROINE.

In vain did Georgiana try to console Clotelle, when the latter heard, through one of the other
slaves, that Mr. Wilson had started with the dogs in pursuit of Jerome. The poor girl well
knew that he would be caught, and that severe punishment, if not death, would be the result
of his capture. It was therefore with a heart filled with the deepest grief that the slave-girl
heard the footsteps of her master on his return from the chase. The dogged and stern manner
of the preacher forbade even his daughter inquiring as to the success of his pursuit. Georgiana
secretly hoped that the fugitive had not been caught; she wished it for the sake of the slave,
and more especially for her maid-servant, whom she regarded more as a companion than a menial.
But the news of the capture of Jerome soon spread through the parson's household, and found
its way to the ears of the weeping and heart-stricken Clotelle.

The reverend gentleman had not been home more than an hour ere come of his parishioners called
to know if they should not take the negro from the prison and execute Lynch law upon him.

"No negro should be permitted to live after striking a white man; let us take him and hang
him at once," remarked an elderly-looking man, whose gray hairs thinly covered the crown of
his head.

"I think the deacon is right," said another of the company; "if our slaves are allowed to set
the will of their masters at defiance, there will be no getting along with them,--an insurrection
will be the next thing we hear of."

"No, no," said the preacher; "I am willing to let the law take its course, as it provides for
the punishment of a slave with death if he strikes his master. We had better let the court
decide the question. Moreover, as a Christian and God-fearing people, we ought to submit to
the dictates of justice. Should we take this man's life by force, an All-wise Providence would
hold us responsible for the act."

The company then quietly withdrew, showing that the preacher had some influence with his people.

"This" said Mr. Wilson, when left alone with his daughter,--"this, my dear Georgiana, is the
result of your kindness to the negroes. You have spoiled every one about the house. I can't
whip one of them, without being in danger of having my life taken."

"I am sure, papa," replied the young lady,--"I am sure I never did any thing intentionally
to induce any of the servants to disobey your orders."

"No, my dear," said Mr. Wilson, "but you are too kind to them. Now, there is Clotelle,--that
girl is completely spoiled. She walks about the house with as dignified an air as if she was
mistress of the premises. By and by you will be sorry for this foolishness of yours."

"But," answered Georgiana, "Clotelle has a superior mind, and God intended her to hold a higher
position in life than that of a servant."

"Yes, my dear, and it was your letting her know that she was intended for a better station
in society that is spoiling her. Always keep a negro in ignorance of what you conceive to be
his abilities," returned the parson.

It was late on the Saturday afternoon, following the capture of Jerome that, while Mr. Wilson
was seated in his study preparing his sermon for the next day, Georgiana entered the room and
asked in an excited tone if it were true that Jerome was to be hanged on the following Thursday.

The minister informed her that such was the decision of the court.

"Then," said she, "Clotelle will die of grief."

"What business has she to die of grief?" returned the father, his eyes at the moment flashing fire.

"She has neither eaten nor slept since he was captured," replied Georgians; "and I am certain
that she will not live through this."

"I cannot be disturbed now," said the parson; "I must get my sermon ready for to-morrow. I
expect to have some strangers to preach to, and must, therefore, prepare a sermon that will
do me credit."

While the man of God spoke, he seemed to say to himself,--

"With devotion's visage, and pious actions, We do sugar over the devil himself."

Georgiana did all in her power to soothe the feelings of Clotelle, and to induce her to put
her trust in God. Unknown to her father, she allowed the poor girl to go every evening to the
jail to see Jerome, and during these visits, despite her own grief, Clotelle would try to comfort
her lover with the hope that justice would be meted out to him in the spirit-land.

Thus the time passed on, and the day was fast approaching when the slave was to die. Having
heard that some secret meeting had been held by the negroes, previous to the attempt of Mr.
Wilson to flog his slave, it occurred to a magistrate that Jerome might know something of the
intended revolt. He accordingly visited the prison to see if he could learn anything from him,
but all to no purpose. Having given up all hopes of escape, Jerome had resolved to die like
a brave man. When questioned as to whether he knew anything of a conspiracy among the slaves
against their masters, he replied,--

"Do you suppose that I would tell you if I did?"

"But if you know anything," remarked the magistrate, "and will tell us, you may possibly have
your life spared."

"Life," answered the doomed man, "is worth nought to a slave. What right has a slave to himself,
his wife, or his children? We are kept in heathenish darkness, by laws especially enacted to
make our instruction a criminal offence; and our bones, sinews, blood, and nerves are exposed
in the market for sale.

"My liberty is of as much consequence to me as Mr. Wilson's is to him. I am as sensitive to
feeling as he. If I mistake not, the day will come when the negro will learn that he can get
his freedom by fighting for it; and should that time arrive, the whites will be sorry that
they have hated us so shamefully. I am free to say that, could I live my life over again, I
would use all the energies which God has given me to get up an insurrection."

Every one present seemed startled and amazed at the intelligence with which this descendant
of Africa spoke.

"He's a very dangerous man," remarked one.

"Yes," said another, "he got some book-learning somewhere, and that has spoiled him."

An effort was then made to learn from Jerome where he had learned to read, but the black refused
to give any information on the subject.

The sun was just going down behind the trees as Clotelle entered the prison to see Jerome for
the last time. He was to die on the next day Her face was bent upon her hands, and the gushing
tears were forcing their way through her fingers. With beating heart and trembling hands, evincing
the deepest emotion, she threw her arms around her lover's neck and embraced him. But, prompted
by her heart's unchanging love, she had in her own mind a plan by which she hoped to effect
the escape of him to whom she had pledged her heart and hand.

"Dress yourself in my clothes," said she, "and you can easily pass the jailer."

This Jerome at first declined doing. He did not wish to place a confiding girl in a position
where, in all probability, she would have to suffer; but being assured by the young girl that
her life would not be in danger, he resolved to make the attempt. Clotelle being very tall,
it was not probable that the jailer would discover any difference in them.

At this moment, she took from her pocket a bunch of keys and unfastened the padlock, and freed
him from the floor.

"Come, girl, it is time for you to go," said the jailer, as Jerome was holding the almost fainting
girl by the hand.

Being already attired in Clotelle's clothes, the disguised man embraced the weeping girl, put
his handkerchief to his face, and passed out of the jail, without the keeper's knowing that
his prisoner was escaping in a disguise and under cover of the night.

CHAPTER XX

THE HERO OF MANY ADVENTURES.

Jerome had scarcely passed the prison-gates, ere he reproached himself for having taken such
a step. There seemed to him no hope of escape out of the State, and what was a few hours or
days at most, of life to him, when, by obtaining it, another had been sacrificed. He was on
the eve of returning, when he thought of the last words uttered by Clotelle. "Be brave and
determined, and you will still be free." The words sounded like a charm in his ears and he
went boldly forward.

Clotelle had provided a suit of men's clothes and had placed them where her lover could get
them, if he should succeed in getting out.

Returning to Mr. Wilson's barn, the fugitive changed his apparel, and again retraced his steps
into the street. To reach the Free States by travelling by night and lying by during the day,
from a State so far south as Mississippi, no one would think for a moment of attempting to
escape. To remain in the city would be a suicidal step. The deep sound of the escape of steam
from a boat, which was at that moment ascending the river, broke upon the ears of the slave.
"If that boat is going up the river," said he, "why not I conceal myself on board, and try
to escape?" He went at once to the steamboat landing, where the boat was just coming in. "Bound
for Louisville," said the captain, to one who was making inquiries. As the passengers were
rushing on board, Jerome followed them, and proceeding to where some of the hands were stowing
away bales of goods, he took hold and aided them.

"Jump down into the hold, there, and help the men," said the mate to the fugitive, supposing
that, like many persons, he was working his way up the river. Once in the hull among the boxes,
the slave concealed himself. Weary hours, and at last days, passed without either water or
food with the hidden slave. More than once did he resolve to let his case be known; but the
knowledge that he would be sent back to Natchez kept him from doing so. At last, with lips
parched and fevered to a crisp, the poor man crawled out into the freight-room, and began wandering
about. The hatches were on, and the room dark. There happened to be on board a wedding party,
and, a box, containing some of the bridal cake, with several bottles of port wine, was near
Jerome. He found the box, opened it, and helped himself. In eight days, the boat tied up at
the wharf at the place of her destination. It was late at night; the boat's crew, with the
single exception of the man on watch, were on shore. The hatches were off, and the fugitive
quietly made his way on deck and jumped on shore. The man saw the fugitive, but too late to
seize him.

Still in a Slave State, Jerome was at a loss to know how he should proceed. He had with him
a few dollars, enough to pay his way to Canada, if he could find a conveyance. The fugitive
procured such food as he wanted from one of the many eating-houses, and then, following the
direction of the North Star, he passed out of the city, and took the road leading to Covington.
Keeping near the Ohio River, Jerome soon found an opportunity to cross over into the State
of Indiana. But liberty was a mere name in the latter State, and the fugitive learned, from
some colored persons that he met, that it was not safe to travel by daylight. While making
his way one night, with nothing to cheer him but the prospect of freedom in the future, he
was pounced upon by three men who were lying in wait for another fugitive, an advertisement
of whom they had received through the mail. In vain did Jerome tell them that he was not a
slave. True, they had not caught the man they expected; but, if they could make this slave
tell from what place he had escaped, they knew that a good price would be paid them for the
negro's arrest.

Tortured by the slave-catchers, to make him reveal the name of his master and the place from
whence he had escaped, Jerome gave them a fictitious name in Virginia, and said that his master
would give a large reward, and manifested a willingness to return to his "old boss." By this
misrepresentation, the fugitive, hoped to have another chance of getting away. Allured with
the prospect of a large sum of the needful, the slave-catchers started back with their victim.
Stopping on the second night at an inn, on the banks of the Ohio River, the kidnappers, in
lieu of a suitable place in which to confine their prize during the night, chained him to the
bed-post of their sleeping-chamber. The white men were late in retiring to rest, after an evening
spent in drinking. "Tristezón and acobardao", as was another man. The cough choked night,
and spent in the air half of them. "Entrol malenconía" of the darkest, and if I came not to
go to his side, he is "like sighs." "This, and too" God knew how far the car would not mired
forever.

And the poor woman, her eyes misted over, was just a voice in his
throat to say this.

A good door had called me to be cured of sadness!

Aggravated they had taken from my room with the spread of the facia,
I withdrew from her comfort with two formulas, which for me would
have liked me, and went straight to the kitchen.

IV

My uncle was there, sitting on the bedside chair, and left in the bank that followed immediately,
a very big parish priest, with cassock of cloth, velvet cap worn, and hands a very severe
cachavona; border to two, with the fire between them, another character even bulkier than the
parish priest, head gray and fat, sallow face and eyes bulging at the same bank, but a respectful
distance from the subject, Chisco wiping the mud off their legs by the fire, and beside her,
and crouched on the floor without disturb anyone, with a wooden spoon
in the right hand and left handle a pan placed on the trivet, a young
man of blue eyes, beautiful and abundant hair blonde and body well
into meat.

When you get me in the kitchen, stopped the loud clamor of conversation
that I had committed similar dispute since the passage immediately,
and everyone in the group is faced with me suddenly.

Descubrimerlo me then and walked a few steps to the plateau of the stove.

- Hello, hello - my uncle said to me -. And come looking for the grace of God, eh? I happy, man,
I'm glad ... Let's see, take, take it ... Well you can not because you're busy ... You, Chisco,
take it the spotlight that comes in hand ... Go - she added, looking alternately the Priest and the
big man from another bank - here you have it already: this is my
nephew Marcellus, the son My late brother Juan Antonio.

Huh? What? What to ask in print or on clothing? ... See - told me - these gentlemen come to
visit ...

Then he straightened to the question, which seemed giants, particularly the layman, who got his head
to the shoulders within the chimney, but and the priest took off his cap, and the other the
chambergazo with that covered a fraction of the white mop that is overflowing around the perimeter
of the stubborn.

I was given two separate handshakes, that made me see stars, and they walked back to sit,
my prayers, and sat me also to my uncle's between him and the parish priest, he continued the first,
pointing to the second:

- Mr. Don Sabas Peñas, pastor of the town since he sang Mass ... Ago
and far! because I warn you not drop a quarter of the three drives
and a half ... They are counted along well ... Good friend, good adherence
to their duties, though, and very learned in Latin of all kinds ...
and put a bullet in the heart of a bear without a pulse shake him
... Not known other vice.

The Cure released here a laugh that echoed through the funnel of the
chimney, and even mumbled a breviary Latinos could not understand.

After my uncle said, referring to the front pew hombrazo:

- The Lord
... Men - said facing him suddenly with him - will you let me give
all your passport once, to finish first and understand each other
better?

You know that I have learned well in memory ...

The hombrazo bank shifted its growling a bit and finally said, his voice hollow and resonant:

- In the passport you call it kind of offends me, and always to be
affixed sunlight itself: well you know.

But watch out for the jingle! because there are mouths to the same
Creed of the Mass do not sound like it is ...

- This mouth is mine,
watch it!

- I say that there are those mouths, I say no more than
that - said the hombrazo.

- Santo and current, but I am coming to
wonder if going or not going to know my nephew, all your passport,
cuartajo!

- And I reply that it is honor for me, can not offend me.

Beyond that you see, and no more to say.

- Well, listen, Marcelillo, which goes beyond the document: Don Pedro Nolasco of Castañalera,
was mayor of the Royal Valley in 1832, alderman in 1800 thirty, deputy
mayor in 1827, trustee in 1825, former employee in the laundry room
of Messrs. Botifora Wool and Company, outside of the city of Valencia
... Command and control.

- You see? - Hombrazo jumped here, with
a booming voice that stunned.

Already sacastes leg! ... And the jicistes!

- What? - My uncle asked, feigning surprise, while Cure and launched bubbling laugh Latin and I do not
know what to think of everything ...

- Hey, you, young gentleman - he said to me then Don Pedro Nolasco, somewhat shaky voice -: is
the truth that I have been, and proud, all those things you've heard
... but against the "command and control" of the auction, protest
once, twice, and two million of them.

- It appears from the papers
- said my uncle with great fortitude.

- And much has - said Don Pedro
Nolasco - but with your account and reason in groups I published at
the time, when things were a firmer step now ... Yes, sir; there was
good and at the point, but it is not where you just put it with bad
intent Did you have always ...

- That is aggrieved! - Cried my uncle
smothered by coughing.

- Of that I'm missing you I'm complaining
for no reason yo!

- I have not missed!

- I sure did!

The thing about curling was really down this path, but with the intervention Cura and mine conjuróse
time the storm, which was not new in that kitchen between the same opponents, as I later learned,
because the two were sour-tempered, and Don Pedro Nolasco things
a continual temptation to the spirit of my uncle's cunning.

Posts in peace very soon, he continued:

- By the way, take me two years to date, although Deny drag, without
a hint of fear of God, and already has four consecutive hard right
weight.

Was always much wineskin, good appetite and better behavior.

So he has come so here, not a bad gripe.

Never addiction took him as the priest, to the big game ... in the
brambles, you understand, because the edge your home or fireside,
an ox is zampa two sittings, if he is offered.

For that and other things, well we call that we want, not that bad
I take no offense, "Marmitón."

- Celso! - Don Pedro Nolasco here
roared, kicking at the edge of the plateau in supporting feet, shod
in sneakers black belts, the same as the parish priest and my uncle.

And then I noticed that underneath I was wearing slippers alagartadas mean, green, large black
dots.

- That's all you ugly, except the face - my uncle said to him quietly -: the great ... In a
javelin that point you jealous, maybe a joke. We left a searing and and you want to get into
another ...

- Barájolas! - Don Pedro Nolasco said crossing himself -. Have you seen another like it? Swindling
of demons, "because I've got you and me so much, since over the other?

My uncle ignored him, and he asked me:

- Have you seen it right? Well, with these bristles and all, is the neighbor of the people noblón
the best friend of his friends, and it's grapes from our vine.

Take heart in hand and give the skin when there is no layer from the poor. I tell you, Marmitón
of demons, but hit me - he said turning to the giant -, I'm telling you, cuartajo!, I, I have
good evidence to be true: and I say to the soul and life.

If you want to believe me believe me, if not worse for you. Is not that right, Cura?

- Est Deus in nobis - he replied, shaking his head from side to side
as he says something good that is also undisputed -.

There is no getting around it, Deus in nobis est, semper et located. And if not, poor us each
bungling of that weapon Satan in the disputes of men.

- Well, well - my uncle said, turning to his friend who jokes or moved, with big eyes fixed
on the fire -. Now I want you to stay to dinner with us, not for me I do not deserve, but to honor
my nephew.

- A good time! - Murmured the giant stirring a little look into Don Celso and unloading much
the celajes of his face.

- Do you mean because you eaten yet? "- Replied my uncle.

- Naturally.

- Well, for that matter, because I assumed, you invited me.

In stomachs like yours, called prime prime ... And to encourage you
and make it more round and full tonight, I also invited you, Priest.

-
That's another thing - then Don Pedro Nolasco said, going straight
to the imagination -: if It is ...

We denied the Cure to it in all
earnest, but insistently my uncle and I commit myself also accepted
at the end.

- Have you heard, Tona?

... Well Bring the story to Facia to put two dishes on table, and
you add what is missing, if it is missing something in the kitchen.

Tona said that was left with what was leaning over the fire, where everyone ate "As God commanded,"
and my uncle, while the big man with hoarseness received the conditional
the servant had cast his eyes thither, gave the history and topped
ordered it was another fun.

Or both were not even for my taste, the few that surfaced later, as the blonde Bouncers and
Facia, the gray woman, who was in and out often, they gave the last
arrimados condumios touches on fire.

For my part, and 'to get by in the conversation » I had to provide, at the behest of the priest
and Don Pedro Nolasco, four vague on "These worlds of God, for which both had been shot in the
words of the same gentlemen, and less concerned and that at first as there was, and being able
to bring my attention to other terms of the box, I noticed, among
other things, that Chisco Tona and took no part in it than with the
eyes and the occasional laugh or cry, and that such a servant, for
her face and her figure, from head to toe, in short, was what was
called a good girl.

- You see - even told me my uncle - who here
does not hang out too bad, after the fact man these things so different
from "beyond."

And better yet passed, as you go see, for tonight does not rule: it is not that time today, they
do not press the cold and much of the corn without leaves, and we have leafless, because first
things first, but allow yourself to run day and the sky begins to turn brown and "Rebombo" the
Pozon Pena Sagra, piece of junk! people come and see this kitchen, until he night not fit in
these banks, each with its accoutrement and its theme ... montuna all people, for cash: jastialones
pure. We must arm ourselves sometimes much stamina, yes, because in a flock, Zanchetta! Not all
beasts are in the same condition, but the best times are the most, and as not ask camuesa chestnuts
... Come on, you have to entertain, if you accustom to it ... and God will do so.

- Well not to jacerlu! - Don Pedro Nolasco said, surprised that it was doubted he had the indubitable.

-
A morning usque ad noctem custody speret Israel in Domino - Don Sabas confirmed - without counting
with what I have said and I never tire of repeating: Deus in nobis est, and therefore should
not despair of anything that is honest, convenient and good man according to the holy law of
God.

When it came time to go to dinner, asked Don Pedro Nolasco very surprised:

- But how? ... Do not dine here?

- No sir! - Replied my uncle pushing toward the door.

- But why?
- Insisted that standing on the hearth.

- Curiosón of demons - returned
the other, turning to him from the middle of the kitchen -.

First, a given mud you should not put studs, and lastly, you have of knowing you, swallow-knockers
of jinojo that not all time are some, not all men are equal.

Do you understand me now?

This occurred in the instant Chisco, mandated by Tona, was approaching the wall I had been in
front, which was adapted a board, he loosened the Taravilla held
above, you spun on the axle was in the down side, and left him horizontal
position supported by a tentemozo.

Requesting information on the use of that unit, I found that the
table was 'lazy' to my uncle who had alluded in the dining room.

-
And why they put it now? - Ask.

- For dinner the servants as soon
as we get the hell out of here - he answered.

I liked the device, which was armed with a short distance from hearth
novelty tentóme that, certainly I think the good joined notorious
Don Pedro Nolasco.

- As for me - my uncle said with firm resolve
- to lift the cloth at the other table and tend to it.

For give you a taste, I sent to dine there: you know that mine is very different. Also, for what
I have for dinner ... So if you prefer this ...

Agreed, at my request, that for the night stay the way things were,
dining forth in the lazy and leaving the dining room table for lunch,
she stooped down its pedestal Don Pedro Nolasco, and left the kitchen,
the four people in swath, Tona following we lit the way with a candle
that had lowered the hood the fireplace.

And what happened while I was dreading doing, for what had been observed around the fire and
the chores of repolluda cook, that dinner was ready in my honor to serve as a temptation rather
than terror and solace to my diner swallows, made and tasty seasoned
to the kitchen parvidades mundane.

Start counting by covered and two silver spoons fashioned way, a
loaf of bread "home" eight glasses green glass bottle and a very black,
all he had and was appearing on the table was solid and big and rich
to the unbelievable.

First, a bucket of milk soup, then a very serious source of a turnip
soup salad, then an omelette of bacon, followed by a spicy offal,
and, finally, a huge apple compote, and much cheese from sheep.

The only thing in short supply there were light and heat because of the oil lamp wicks was almost
lost in black space before reaching the table, and chamuscón that
I had given me in the kitchen only served in the dining room to feel
doubly glacial temperature of that wilderness.

The Cure, contrary to what I expected from their size, ate nothing
but regularly, and was clean and rested in the eating.

My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need, more than appetite, twelve
hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades that they took ...
But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture devoured up to the eyes,
and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked his throat, Corriale in rivulets on the
outside to sink under the sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed
dropwise with the filth of the vest.

 The unequalled beauty of
Clotelle had dazzled his eyes, and every look that she gave was a dagger that went to his heart.
He felt a shortness of breath, his heart palpitated, his head grew dizzy, and his limbs trembled;
but he knew not its cause. This was the first stage of "love at first sight."

He who bows to the shrine of beauty when beckoned by this mysterious agent seldom regrets it.
Devenant reproached himself for not having made inquiries concerning the girl before he left
the market in the morning. His stay in the city was to be short, and the yellow fever was raging,
which caused him to feel like making a still earlier departure. The disease appeared in a form
unusually severe and repulsive. It seized its victims from amongst the most healthy of the
citizens. The disorder began in the brain by oppressive pain accompanied or followed by fever.

CHAPTER XXIII

MEETING OF THE COUSINS.

The clock in the hall had scarcely finished striking three when Mr. Taylor entered his own
dwelling, a fine residence in Camp Street, New Orleans, followed by the slave-girl whom he
had just purchased at the negro-pen. Clotelle looked around wildly as she passed through the
hall into the presence of her new mistress. Mrs. Taylor was much pleased with her servant's
appearance, and congratulated her husband on his judicious choice.

"But," said Mrs. Taylor, after Clotelle had gone into the kitchen, "how much she looks like
Miss Jane Morton."

"Indeed," replied the husband, "I thought, the moment I saw her that she looked like the Mortons."

"I am sure I never saw two faces more alike in my life, than that girl's and Jane Morton's,"
continued Mrs. Taylor.

Dr. Morton, the purchaser of Maron, the youngest daughter of Agnes, and sister to Isabella,
had resided in Camp Street, near the Taylors, for more than eight years, and the families were
on very intimate terms, and visited each other frequently. Every one spoke of Clotelle's close
resemblance to the Mortons, and especially to the eldest daughter. Indeed, two sisters could
hardly have been more alike. The large, dark eyes, black, silk-like hair, tall, graceful figure,
and mould of the face, were the same.

The morning following Clotelle's arrival in her new home, Mrs. Taylor was conversing in a low
tone with her husband, and both with their eyes following Clotelle as she passed through the room.

"She is far above the station of a slave," remarked the lady. "I saw her, last night, when
removing some books, open one and stand over it a moment as if she was reading; and she is
as white as I am. I almost sorry you bought her."

At this juncture the front door-bell rang, and Clotelle hurried through the room to answer it.

"Miss Morton," said the servant as she returned to the mistress' room.

"Ask her to walk in," responded the mistress.

"Now, my dear," said Mrs. Taylor to her husband, "just look and see if you do not notice a
marked resemblance between the countenances of Jane and Clotelle."

Miss Morton entered the room just as Mrs. Taylor ceased speaking.

"Have you heard that the Jamisons are down with the fever?" inquired the young lady, after
asking about the health of the Taylors.

"No, I had not; I was in hopes it would not get into our street;" replied Mrs. Taylor.

All this while Mr. and Mrs. Taylor were keenly scrutinizing their visitor and Clotelle and
even the two young women seemed to be conscious that they were in some way the objects of more
than usual attention.

Miss Morton had scarcely departed before Mrs. Taylor began questioning Clotelle concerning
her early childhood, and became more than ever satisfied that the slave-girl was in some way
connected with the Mortons.

Every hour brought fresh news of the ravages of the fever, and the Taylors commenced preparing
to leave town. As Mr. Taylor could not go at once, it was determined that his wife should leave
without him, accompanied by her new maid servant. Just as Mrs. Taylor and Clotelle were stepping
into the carriage, they were informed that Dr. Morton was down with the epidemic.

It was a beautiful day, with a fine breeze for the time of year, that Mrs. Taylor and her servant
found themselves in the cabin of the splendid new steamer "Walk-in-the-Water," bound from New
Orleans to Mobile. Every berth in the boat wad occupied by persons fleeing from the fearful
contagion that was carrying off its hundreds daily.

Late in the day, as Clotelle was standing at one of the windows of the ladies' saloon, she
was astonished to see near her, and with eyes fixed intently upon her, the tall young stranger
whom she had observed in the slave-market a few days before. She turned hastily away, but the
heated cabin and the want of fresh air soon drove her again to the window. The young gentleman
again appeared, and coming to the end of the saloon, spoke to the slave-girl in broken English.
This confirmed her in her previous opinion that he was a foreigner, and she rejoiced that she
had not fallen into his hands.

"I want to talk with you," said the stranger.

"What do you want with me?" she inquired.

"I am your friend," he answered. "I saw you in the slave-market last week, and regretted that
I did not speak to you then. I returned in the evening, but you was gone."

Clotelle looked indignantly at the stranger, and was about leaving the window again when the
quivering of his lips and the trembling of his voice struck her attention and caused her to remain.

"I intended to buy you and make you free and happy, but I was too late," continued he.

"Why do you wish to make me free?" inquired the girl.

Clotelle had all along suspected that the man was a knave, and this profession of love at once
confirmed her in that belief. She therefore immediately turned away and left him.

Hours elapsed. Twilight was just "letting down her curtain and pinning it with a star," as
the slave-girl seated herself on a sofa by the window, and began meditating upon her eventful
history, meanwhile watching the white waves as they seemed to sport with each other in the
wake of the noble vessel, with the rising moon reflecting its silver rays upon the splendid
scene, when the foreigner once more appeared near the window. Although agitated for fear her
mistress would see her talking to a stranger, and be angry, Clotelle still thought she saw
something in the countenance of the young man that told her he was sincere, and she did not
wish to hurt his feelings.

"Why persist in your wish to talk with me?" she said, as he again advanced and spoke to her.

"I wish to purchase you and make you happy," returned he.

"But I am not for sale now," she replied. "My present mistress will not sell me, and if you
wished to do so ever so much you could not."

"Then," said he, "if I cannot buy you, when the steamer reaches Mobile, fly with me, and you
shall be free."

"I cannot do it," said Clotelle; and she was just leaving the stranger when he took from his
pocket a piece of paper and thrust it into her hand.

After returning to her room, she unfolded the paper, and found, to her utter astonishment that
it contained a one hundred dollar note on the Bank of the United States. The first impulse
of the girl was to return the paper and its contents immediately to the giver, but examining
the paper more closely, she saw in faint pencil-marks, "Remember this is from one who loves
you." Another thought was to give it to her mistress, and she returned to the saloon for that
purpose; but on finding Mrs. Taylor engaged in conversation with some ladies, she did not deem
it proper to interrupt her.

Again, therefore, Clotelle seated herself by the window, and again the stranger presented himself.
She immediately took the paper from her pocket, and handed it to him; but he declined taking
it, saying,--

"No, keep it; it may be of some service to you when I am far away."

"Would that I could understand you," said the slave.

"Believe that I am sincere, and then you will understand me," returned the young man. "Would
you rather be a slave than be free?" inquired he, with tears that glistened in the rays of
the moon.

"No," said she, "I want my freedom, but I must live a virtuous life."

"Then, if you would be free and happy, go with me. We shall be in Mobile in two hours, and
when the passengers are going on shore, you take my arm. Have your face covered with a veil,
and you will not be observed. We will take passage immediately for France; you can pass as
my sister, and I pledge you my honor that I will marry you as soon as we arrive in France."

This solemn promise, coupled with what had previously been said, gave Clotelle confidence in
the man, and she instantly determined to go with him. "But then," thought she, "what if I should
be detected? I would be forever ruined, for I would be sold, and in all probability have to
end my days on a cotton, rice, or sugar plantation." However, the thought of freedom in the
future outweighed this danger, and her resolve was taken.

Dressing herself in some of her best clothes, and placing her veiled bonnet where she could
get it without the knowledge of her mistress, Clotelle awaited with a heart filled with the
deepest emotions and anxiety the moment when she was to take a step which seemed so rash, and
which would either make or ruin her forever.

The ships which leave Mobile for Europe lie about thirty miles down the bay, and passengers
are taken down from the city in small vessels. The "Walk-in-the-Water" had just made her lines
fast, and the passengers were hurrying on shore, when a tall gentleman with a lady at his side
descended the stage-plank, and stepped on the wharf. This was Antoine Devenant and Clotelle.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE LAW AND ITS VICTIM.

The death of Dr. Morton, on the third day of his illness, came like a shock upon his wife and
daughters. The corpse had scarcely been committed to its mother earth before new and unforeseen
difficulties appeared to them. Being unacquainted with the Southern code, and no one presuming
that Marion had any negro blood in her veins, Dr. Morton had not given the subject a single
thought. The woman whom he loved and regarded as his wife was, after all, nothing more than
a slave by the laws of the State. What would have been his feelings had he known that at his
death his wife and children would be considered as his property? Yet such was the case. Like
most men of means at that time, Dr. Morton was deeply engaged in speculation, and though generally
considered wealthy, was very much involved in his business affairs.

After the disease with which Dr. Morton had so suddenly died had to some extent subsided, Mr.
James Morton, a brother of the deceased, went to New Orleans to settle up the estate. On his
arrival there, he was pleased with and felt proud of his nieces, and invited them to return
with him to Vermont, little dreaming that his brother had married a slave, and that his widow
and daughters would be claimed as such. These preliminaries being arranged, the ladies, with
their relative, concluded to leave the city and reside for a few days on the banks of Lake
Ponchartrain, where they could enjoy a fresh air that the city did not afford. As they were
about taking the cars, however, an officer arrested the whole party--the ladies as slaves,
and the gentleman upon the charge of attempting to conceal the property of his deceased brother.

The uncle was therefore compelled to give them up to the officers of the law, and they were
separated from him. Jane, the oldest of the girls, as we have before mentioned, was very handsome,
bearing a close resemblance to her cousin Clotelle. Alreka, though not as handsome as her sister,
was nevertheless a beautiful girl, and both had all the accomplishments that wealth and station
could procure.

Though only in her fifteenth year, Alreka had become strongly attached to Volney Lapie, a young
Frenchman, a student in her father's office. This attachment was reciprocated, although the
poverty of the young man and the extreme youth of the girl had caused their feelings to be
kept from the young lady's parents.

The day of sale came, and Mr. Morton attended, with the hope that either the magnanimity of
the creditors or his own little farm in Vermont might save his nieces from the fate that awaited
them. His hope, however, was in vain. The feelings of all present seemed to be lost in the
general wish to become the possessor of the young ladies, who stood trembling, blushing, and
weeping as the numerous throng gazed at them, or as the intended purchaser examined the graceful
proportions of their fair and beautiful frames. Neither the presence of the uncle nor young
Lapie could at all lessen the gross language of the officers, or stay the rude hands of those
who wished to examine the property thus offered for sale. After a fierce contest between the
bidders, the girls were sold, one for two thousand three hundred, and the other for two thousand
three hundred and fifty dollars. Had these girls been bought for servants only, they would
in all probability have brought not more than nine hundred or a thousand dollars each. Here
were two beautiful young girls, accustomed to the fondest indulgence, surrounded by all the
refinements of life, and with the timidity and gentleness which such a life would naturally
produce, bartered away like cattle in the markets of Smithfield or New York.

The mother, who was also to have been sold, happily followed her husband to the grave, and
was spared the pangs of a broken heart.

The purchaser of the young ladies left the market in triumph, and the uncle, with a heavy heart,
started for his New England home, with no earthly prospect of ever beholding his nieces again.

The seizure of the young ladies as slaves was the result of the administrator's having found
among Dr. Morton's papers the bill-of-sale of Marion which he had taken when he purchased her.
He had doubtless intended to liberate her when he married her, but had neglected from time
to time to have the proper papers made out. Sad was the result of this negligence.

CHAPTER XXV

THE FLIGHT.

On once gaining the wharf, Devenant and Clotelle found no difficulty in securing an immediate
passage to France. The fine packet-ship Utica lay down the bay, and only awaited the return
of the lighter that night to complete her cargo and list of passengers, ere she departed. The
young Frenchman therefore took his prize on board, and started for the ship.

Daylight was just making its appearance the next morning when the Utica weighed anchor and
turned her prow toward the sea. In the course of three hours, the vessel, with outspread sails,
was rapidly flying from land. Everything appeared to be auspicious. The skies were beautifully
clear, and the sea calm, with a sun that dazzled the whole scene. But clouds soon began to
chase each other through the heavens and the sea became rough. It was then that Clotelle felt
that there was hope of escaping. She had hitherto kept in the cabin, but now she expressed
a wish to come on deck. The hanging clouds were narrowing the horizon to a span, and gloomily
mingling with the rising surges. The old and grave-looking seamen shook their weather-wise
heads as if foretelling a storm.

As Clotelle came on deck, she strained her eyes in vain to catch a farewell view of her native
land. With a smile on her countenance, but with her eyes filled with tears, she said,--

"Farewell, farewell to the land of my birth, and welcome, welcome, ye dark blue waves. I care
not where I go, so it is

  'Where a tyrant never trod,
  Where a slave was never known,
  But where nature worships God,
  If in the wilderness alone.'"

Devenant stood by her side, seeming proud of his future wife, with his face in a glow at his
success, while over his noble brow clustering locks of glossy black hair were hanging in careless
ringlets. His finely-cut, classic features wore the aspect of one possessed with a large and
noble heart.

Once more the beautiful Clotelle whispered in the ear of her lover,--

  "Away, away, o'er land and sea,
  America is now no home for me."

The winds increased with nightfall, and impenetrable gloom surrounded the ship. The prospect
was too uncheering, even to persons in love. The attention which Devenant paid to Clotelle,
although she had been registered on the ship's passenger list as his sister, caused more than
one to look upon his as an agreeable travelling companion. His tall, slender figure and fine
countenance bespoke for him at first sight one's confidence. That he was sincerely and deeply
enamored of Clotelle all could see.

The weather became still more squally. The wind rushed through the white, foaming waves, and
the ship groaned with its own wild and ungovernable labors, while nothing could be seen but
the wild waste of waters. The scene was indeed one of fearful sublimity.

Day came and went without any abatement of the storm. Despair was now on every countenance.
Occasionally a vivid flash of lightning would break forth and illuminate the black and boiling
surges that surrounded the vessel, which was now scudding before the blast under bare poles.

After five days of most intensely stormy weather, the sea settled down into a dead calm, and
the passengers flocked on deck. During the last three days of the storm, Clotelle had been
so unwell as to be unable to raise her head. Her pale face and quivering lips and languid appearance
made her look as if every pulsation had ceased. Her magnificent large and soft eyes, fringed
with lashes as dark as night, gave her an angelic appearance. The unreserved attention of Devenant,
even when sea-sick himself, did much to increase the little love that the at first distrustful
girl had placed in him. The heart must always have some object on which to centre its affections,
and Clotelle having lost all hope of ever again seeing Jerome, it was but natural that she
should now transfer her love to one who was so greatly befriending her. At first she respected
Devenant for the love he manifested for her, and for his apparent willingness to make any sacrifice
for her welfare. True, this was an adventure upon which she had risked her all, and should
her heart be foiled in this search for hidden treasures, her affections would be shipwrecked
forever. She felt under great obligations to the man who had thus effected her escape, and
that noble act alone would entitle him to her love.

Each day became more pleasant as the noble ship sped onward amid the rippled spray. The whistling
of the breeze through the rigging was music to the ear, and brought gladness to the heart of
every one on board. At last, the long suspense was broken by the appearance of land, at which
all hearts leaped for joy. It was a beautiful morning in October. The sun had just risen, and
sky and earth were still bathed in his soft, rosy glow, when the Utica hauled into the dock
at Bordeaux. The splendid streets, beautiful bridges, glittering equipages, and smiling countenances
of the people, gave everything a happy appearance, after a voyage of twenty-nine days on the
deep, deep sea.

After getting their baggage cleared from the custom-house and going to a hotel, Devenant made
immediate arrangements for the marriage. Clotelle, on arriving at the church where the ceremony
was to take place, was completely overwhelmed at the spectacle. She had never beheld a scene
so gorgeous as this. The magnificent dresses of the priests and choristers, the deep and solemn
voices, the elevated crucifix, the burning tapers, the splendidly decorated altar, the sweet-smelling
incense, made the occasion truly an imposing one. At the conclusion of the ceremony, the loud
and solemn peals of the organ's swelling anthem were lost to all in the contemplation of the
interesting scene.

The happy couple set out at once for Dunkirk, the residence of the bridegroom's parents. But
their stay there was short, for they had scarcely commenced visiting the numerous friends of
the husband ere orders came for him to proceed to India to join that portion of the French
army then stationed there.

In due course of time they left for India, passing through Paris and Lyons, taking ship at
Marseilles. In the metropolis of France, they spent a week, where the husband took delight
in introducing his wife to his brother officers in the French army, and where the newly-married
couple were introduced to Louis Phillippe, then King of France. In all of these positions,
Clotelle sustained herself in a most ladylike manner.

At Lyons, they visited the vast factories and other public works, and all was pleasure with
them. The voyage from Marseilles to Calcutta was very pleasant, as the weather was exceedingly
fine. On arriving in India, Captain Devenant and lady were received with honors--the former
for his heroic bravery in more than one battle, and the latter for her fascinating beauty and
pleasing manners, and the fact that she was connected with one who was a general favorite with
all who had his acquaintance. This was indeed a great change for Clotelle. Six months had not
elapsed since her exposure in the slave-market of New Orleans. This life is a stage, and we
are indeed all actors.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE HERO OF A NIGHT.

Mounted on a fast horse, with the Quaker's son for a guide, Jerome pressed forward while Uncle
Joseph was detaining the slave-catchers at the barn-door, through which the fugitive had just
escaped. When out of present danger, fearing that suspicion might be aroused if he continued
on the road in open day, Jerome buried himself in a thick, dark forest until nightfall. With
a yearning heart, he saw the splendor of the setting sun lingering on the hills, as if loath
to fade away and be lost in the more sombre hues of twilight, which, rising from the east,
was slowly stealing over the expanse of heaven, bearing silence and repose, which should cover
his flight from a neighborhood to him so full of dangers.

Wearily and alone, with nothing but the hope of safety before him to cheer him on his way,
the poor fugitive urged his tired and trembling limbs forward for several nights. The new suit
of clothes with which he had provided himself when he made his escape from his captors, and
the twenty dollars which the young Quaker had slipped into his hand, when bidding him "Fare
thee well," would enable him to appear genteelly as soon as he dared to travel by daylight,
and would thus facilitate his progress toward freedom.

It was late in the evening when the fugitive slave arrived at a small town on the banks of
Lake Erie, where he was to remain over night. How strange were his feelings! While his heart
throbbed for that freedom and safety which Canada alone could furnish to the whip-scarred slave,
on the American continent, his thoughts were with Clotelle. Was she still in prison, and if
so, what would be her punishment for aiding him to escape from prison? Would he ever behold
her again? These were the thoughts that followed him to his pillow, haunted him in is dreams,
and awakened him from his slumbers.

The alarm of fire aroused the inmates of the hotel in which Jerome had sought shelter for the
night from the deep sleep into which they had fallen. The whole village was buried in slumber,
and the building was half consumed before the frightened inhabitants had reached the scene
of the conflagration. The wind was high, and the burning embers were wafted like so many rockets
through the sky. The whole town was lighted up, and the cries of women and children in the
streets made the scene a terrific one. Jerome heard the alarm, and hastily dressing himself,
he went forth and hastened toward the burning building.

"There,--there in that room in the second story, is my child!" exclaimed a woman, wringing
her hands, and imploring some one to go to the rescue of her little one.

The broad sheets of fire were flying in the direction of the chamber in which the child was
sleeping, and all hope of its being saved seemed gone. Occasionally the wind would lift the
pall of smoke, and show that the work of destruction was not yet complete. At last a long ladder
was brought, and one end placed under the window of the room. A moment more and a bystander
mounted the ladder and ascended in haste to the window. The smoke met him as he raised the
sash, and he cried out, "All is lost!" and returned to the ground without entering the room.

Another sweep of the wind showed that the destroying element had not yet made its final visit
to that part of the doomed building. The mother, seeing that all hope of again meeting her
child in this world was gone, wrung her hands and seemed inconsolable with grief.

At this juncture, a man was seen to mount the ladder, and ascend with great rapidity. All eyes
were instantly turned to the figure of this unknown individual as it disappeared in the cloud
of smoke escaping from the window. Those who a moment before had been removing furniture, as
well as the idlers who had congregated at the ringing of the bells, assembled at the foot of
the ladder, and awaited with breathless silence the reappearance of the stranger, who, regardless
of his own safety, had thus risked his life to save another's. Three cheers broke the stillness
that had fallen on the company, as the brave man was seen coming through the window and slowly
descending to the ground, holding under one arm the inanimate form of the child. Another cheer,
and then another, made the welkin ring, as the stranger, with hair burned and eyebrows closely
singed, fainted at the foot of the ladder. But the child was saved.

The stranger was Jerome. As soon as he revived, he shrunk from every eye, as if he feared they
would take from him the freedom which he had gone through so much to obtain.

The next day, the fugitive took a vessel, and the following morning found himself standing
on the free soil of Canada. As his foot pressed the shore, he threw himself upon his face,
kissed the earth, and exclaimed, "O God! I thank thee that I am a free man."

CHAPTER XXVII

TRUE FREEDOM.

The history of the African race is God's illuminated clock, set in the dark steeple of time.
The negro has been made the hewer of wood and the drawer of water for nearly all other nations.
The people of the United States, however, will have an account to settle with God, owing to
their treatment of the negro, which will far surpass the rest of mankind.

Jerome, on reaching Canada, felt for the first time that personal freedom which God intended
that all who bore his image should enjoy. That same forgetfulness of self which had always
characterized him now caused him to think of others. The thoughts of dear ones in slavery were
continually in his mind, and above all others, Clotelle occupied his thoughts. Now that he
was free, he could better appreciate her condition as a slave. Although Jerome met, on his
arrival in Canada, numbers who had escaped from the Southern States, he nevertheless shrank
from all society, particularly that of females. The soft, silver-gray tints on the leaves of
the trees, with their snow-spotted trunks, and a biting air, warned the new-born freeman that
he was in another climate. Jerome sought work, and soon found it; and arranged with his employer
that the latter should go to Natchez in search of Clotelle. The good Scotchman, for whom the
fugitive was laboring, freely offered to go down and purchase the girl, if she could be bought,
and let Jerome pay him in work. With such a prospect of future happiness in view, this injured
descendant of outraged and bleeding Africa went daily to his toil with an energy hitherto unknown
to him. But oh, how vain are the hopes of man!

CHAPTER XXVIII

FAREWELL TO AMERICA.

Three months had elapsed, from the time the fugitive commenced work for Mr. Streeter, when
that gentleman returned from his Southern research, and informed Jerome that Parson Wilson
had sold Clotelle, and that she had been sent to the New Orleans slave-market.

This intelligence fell with crushing weight upon the heart of Jerome, and he now felt that
the last chain which bound him to his native land was severed. He therefore determined to leave
America forever. His nearest and dearest friends had often been flogged in his very presence,
and he had seen his mother sold to the negro-trader. An only sister had been torn from him
by the soul-driver; he had himself been sold and resold, and been compelled to submit to the
most degrading and humiliating insults; and now that the woman upon whom his heart doted, and
without whom life was a burden, had been taken away forever, he felt it a duty to hate all mankind.

If there is one thing more than another calculated to make one hate and detest American slavery,
it is to witness the meetings between fugitives and their friends in Canada. Jerome had beheld
some of these scenes. The wife who, after years of separation, had escaped from her prison-house
and followed her husband had told her story to him. He had seen the newly-arrived wife rush
into the arms of the husband, whose dark face she had not looked upon for long, weary years.
Some told of how a sister had been ill-used by the overseer; others of a husband's being whipped
to death for having attempted to protect his wife. He had sat in the little log-hut, by the
fireside, and heard tales that caused his heart to bleed; and his bosom swelled with just indignation
when he thought that there was no remedy for such atrocious acts. It was with such feelings
that he informed his employer that he should leave him at the expiration of a month.

In vain did Mr. Streeter try to persuade Jerome to remain with him; and late, in the month
of February, the latter found himself on board a small vessel loaded with pine-lumber, descending
the St. Lawrence, bound for Liverpool. The bark, though an old one, was, nevertheless, considered
seaworthy, and the fugitive was working his way out. As the vessel left the river and gained
the open sea, the black man appeared to rejoice at the prospect of leaving a country in which
his right to manhood had been denied him, and his happiness destroyed.

The wind was proudly swelling the white sails, and the little craft plunging into the foaming
waves, with the land fast receding in the distance, when Jerome mounted a pile of lumber to
take a last farewell of his native land. With tears glistening in his eyes, and with quivering
lips, he turned his gaze toward the shores that were fast fading in the dim distance, and said,--

"Though forced from my native land by the tyrants of the South, I hope I shall some day be
able to return. With all her faults, I love my country still."

CHAPTER XXIX

A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.

The rain was falling on the dirty pavements of Liverpool as Jerome left the vessel after her
arrival. Passing the custom-house, he took a cab, and proceeded to Brown's Hotel, Clayton Square.

Finding no employment in Liverpool, Jerome determined to go into the interior and seek for
work. He, therefore, called for his bill, and made ready for his departure. Although but four
days at the Albion, he found the hotel charges larger than he expected; but a stranger generally
counts on being "fleeced" in travelling through the Old World, and especially in Great Britain.
After paying his bill, he was about leaving the room, when one of the servants presented himself
with a low bow, and said,--

"Something for the waiter, sir?"

"I thought I had paid my bill," replied the man, somewhat surprised at this polite dun.

"I am the waiter, sir, and gets only what strangers see fit to give me."

Taking from his pocket his nearly empty purse, Jerome handed the man a half-crown; but he had
hardly restored it to his pocket, before his eye fell on another man in the waiting costume.

"What do you want?" he asked.

"Whatever your honor sees fit to give me, sir. I am the tother waiter."

The purse was again taken from the pocket, and another half-crown handed out. Stepping out
into the hall, he saw standing there a good-looking woman, in a white apron, who made a very
pretty courtesy.

"What's your business?" he inquired.

"I am the chambermaid, sir, and looks after the gentlemen's beds."

Out came the purse again, and was relieved of another half-crown; whereupon another girl, with
a fascinating smile, took the place of the one who had just received her fee.

"What do you want?" demanded the now half-angry Jerome.

"Please, sir, I am the tother chambermaid."

Finding it easier to give shillings than half-crowns, Jerome handed the woman a shilling, and
again restored his purse to his pocket, glad that another woman was not to be seen.

Scarcely had he commenced congratulating himself, however, before three men made their appearance,
one after another.

"What have you done for me?" he asked of the first.

"I am the boots, sir."

The purse came out once more, and a shilling was deposited in the servant's hand.

"What do I owe you?" he inquired of the second.

"I took your honor's letter to the post, yesterday, sir."

Another shilling left the purse.

"In the name of the Lord, what am I indebted to you for?" demanded Jerome, now entirely out
of patience, turning to the last of the trio.

"I told yer vership vot time it vas, this morning."

"Well!" exclaimed the indignant man, "ask here what o'clock it is, and you have got to pay for it."

He paid this last demand with a sixpence, regretting that he had not commenced with sixpences
instead of half-crowns.

Having cleared off all demands in the house, he started for the railway station; but had scarcely
reached the street, before he was accosted by an old man with a broom in his hand, who, with
an exceedingly low bow, said,--

"I is here, yer lordship."

"I did not send for you; what is your business?" demanded Jerome.

"I is the man what opened your lordship's cab-door, when your lordship came to the house on
Monday last, and I know your honor won't allow a poor man to starve."

Putting a sixpence in the old man's hand, Jerome once more started for the depot. Having obtained
letters of introduction to persons in Manchester, he found no difficulty in getting a situation
in a large manufacturing house there. Although the salary was small, yet the situation was
a much better one than he had hoped to obtain. His compensation as out-door clerk enabled him
to employ a man to teach him at night, and, by continued study and attention to business, he
was soon promoted.

After three years in his new home, Jerome was placed in a still higher position, where his
salary amounted to fifteen hundred dollars a year. The drinking, smoking, and other expensive
habits, which the clerks usually indulged in, he carefully avoided.

Being fond of poetry, he turned his attention to literature. Johnson's "Lives of the Poets,"
the writings of Dryden, Addison, Pope, Clarendon, and other authors of celebrity, he read with
attention. The knowledge which he thus picked up during his leisure hours gave him a great
advantage over the other clerks, and caused his employers to respect him far more than any
other in their establishment. So eager was he to improve the time that he determined to see
how much he could read during the unemployed time of night and morning, and his success was
beyond his expectations.

CHAPTER XXX

NEW FRIENDS.

Broken down in health, after ten years of close confinement in his situation, Jerome resolved
to give it up, and thereby release himself from an employment which seemed calculated to send
him to a premature grave.

It was on a beautiful morning in summer that he started for Scotland, having made up his mind
to travel for his health. After visiting Edinburgh and Glasgow, he concluded to spend a few
days in the old town of Perth, with a friend whose acquaintance he had made in Manchester.
During the second day of his stay in Perth, while crossing the main street, Jerome saw a pony-chaise
coming toward him with great speed. A lady, who appeared to be the only occupant of the vehicle,
was using her utmost strength to stop the frightened horses. The footman, in his fright, had
leaped from behind the carriage, and was following with the crowd. With that self-forgetfulness
which was one of his chief characteristics, Jerome threw himself before the horses to stop
them; and, seizing the high-spirited animals by the bit, as they dashed by him, he was dragged
several rods before their speed was checked, which was not accomplished until one of the horses
had fallen to the ground, with the heroic man struggling beneath him.

All present were satisfied that this daring act alone had saved the lady's life, for the chaise
must inevitably have been dashed in pieces, had the horses not been thus suddenly checked in
their mad career.

On the morning following this perilous adventure, Col. G----called at Jerome's temporary residence,
and, after expressing his admiration for his noble daring, and thanking him for having saved
his daughter's life, invited him to visit him at his country residence. This invitation was
promptly accepted in the spirit in which it was given; and three days after, Jerome found himself
at the princely residence of the father of the lady for whose safety he had risked his own
life. The house was surrounded by fine trees, and a sweet little stream ran murmuring at the
foot, while beds of flowers on every hand shed their odors on the summer air. It was, indeed,
a pleasant place to spend the warm weather, and the colonel and his family gave Jerome a most
cordial welcome. Miss G. showed especial attention to the stranger. He had not intended remaining
longer than the following day: but the family insisted on his taking part in a fox-hunt that
was to come off on the morning of the third day. Wishing to witness a scene as interesting
as the chase usually proves to be, he decided to remain.

Fifteen persons, five of whom were ladies, were on the ground at the appointed hour. Miss G.
was, of course, one of the party. In vain Jerome endeavored to excuse himself from joining
in the chase. His plea of ill-health was only met by smiles from the young ladies, and the
reply that a ride would effect a cure.

Dressed in a scarlet coat and high boots, with the low, round cap worn in the chase, Jerome
mounted a high-spirited horse, whip in hand, and made himself one of the party. In America,
riding is a necessity; in England, it is a pleasure. Young men and women attend riding-school
in our fatherland, and consider that they are studying a science. Jerome was no rider. He had
not been on horseback for more than ten years, and as soon as he mounted, every one saw that
he was a novice, and a smile was on the countenance of each member of the company.

The blowing of the horn, and assembling of the hounds, and finally the release of the fox from
his close prison, were the signals for the chase to commence. The first half-mile the little
animal took his course over a beautiful field where there was neither hedge nor ditch. Thus
far the chase was enjoyed by all, even by the American rider, who was better fitted to witness
the scene than to take part in it.

We left Jerome in our last reluctantly engaged in the chase; and though the first mile or so
of the pursuit, which was over smooth meadow-land, had had an exhilarating effect upon his
mind, and tended somewhat to relieve him of the embarrassment consequent upon his position,
he nevertheless still felt that he was far from being in his proper element. Besides, the fox
had now made for a dense forest which lay before, and he saw difficulties in that direction
which to him appeared insurmountable.

Away went the huntsmen, over stone walls, high fences, and deep ditches. Jerome saw the ladies
even leading the gentlemen, but this could not inspire him. They cleared the fences, four and
five feet high with perfect ease, showing they were quite at home in the saddle. But alas for
the poor American! As his fine steed came up to the first fence, and was about to make the
leap, Jerome pulled at the bridle, and cried at the top of his voice, "Whoa! whoa! whoa!" the
horse at the same time capering about, and appearing determined to keep up with the other animals.

Away dashed the huntsmen, following the hounds, and all were soon lost to the view of their
colored companion. Jerome rode up and down the field looking for a gate or bars, that he might
get through without risking his neck. Finding, however, that all hope of again catching up
with the party was out of the question, he determined to return to the house, under a plea
of sudden illness, and back he accordingly went.

"I hope no accident has happened to your honor," said the groom, as he met our hero at the gate.

"A slight dizziness," was the answer.

One of the servants, without being ordered, went at once for the family physician. Ashamed
to own that his return was owing to his inability to ride, Jerome resolved to feign sickness.
The doctor came, felt his pulse, examined his tongue, and pronounced him a sick man. He immediately
ordered a tepid bath, and sent for a couple of leeches.

Seeing things taking such a serious turn, the American began to regret the part he was playing;
for there was no fun in being rubbed and leeched when one was in perfect health. He had gone
too far to recede, however, and so submitted quietly to the directions of the doctor; and,
after following the injunctions given by that learned Esculapius, was put to bed.

Shortly after, the sound of the horns and the yelp of the hounds announced that the poor fox
had taken the back track, and was repassing near the house. Even the pleasure of witnessing
the beautiful sight from the window was denied to our hero; for the physician had ordered that
he must be kept in perfect quiet.

The chase was at last over, and the huntsmen all in, sympathizing with their lost companion.
After nine days of sweating, blistering and leeching, Jerome left his bed convalescent, but
much reduced in flesh and strength. This was his first and last attempt to follow the fox and
hounds.

During his fortnight's stay at Colonel G.'s, Jerome spent most of his time in the magnificent
library. Claude did not watch with more interest every color of the skies, the trees, the grass,
and the water, to learn from nature, than did this son of a despised race search books to obtain
that knowledge which his early life as a slave had denied him.

CHAPTER XXXI

THE MYSTERIOUS MEETING.

After more than a fortnight spent in the highlands of Scotland, Jerome passed hastily through
London on his way to the continent.

It was toward sunset, on a warm day in October, shortly after his arrival in France, that,
after strolling some distance from the Hotel de Leon, in the old and picturesque town of Dunkirk,
he entered a burial ground--such places being always favorite walks with him--and wandered
around among the silent dead. Even the birds seemed imbued with the spirit of the place, for
they were silent, either flying noiselessly over the graves, or jumping about in the tall grass.
Jerome seated himself on a marble tombstone, and commenced reading from a book which he had
carried under his arm. It was now twilight, and he had read but a few minutes when he observed
a lady, attired in deep black, and leading a boy, apparently some five or six years old, coming
up one of the beautiful, winding paths. As the lady's veil was drawn closely over her face,
he felt somewhat at liberty to eye her more closely. While thus engaged, the lady gave a slight
scream, and seemed suddenly to have fallen into a fainting condition. Jerome sprang from his
seat, and caught her in time to save her from falling to the ground.

At this moment an elderly gentleman, also dressed in black, was seen approaching with a hurried
step, which seemed to indicate that he was in some way connected with the lady. The old man
came up, and in rather a confused manner inquired what had happened, and Jerome explained matters
as well as he was able to do so. After taking up the vinaigrette, which had fallen from her
hand, and holding the bottle a short time to her face, the lady began to revive. During all
this time, the veil had still partly covered the face of the fair one, so that Jerome had scarcely
seen it. When she had so far recovered as to be able to look around her, she raised herself
slightly, and again screamed and swooned. The old man now feeling satisfied that Jerome's dark
complexion was the immediate cause of the catastrophe, said in a somewhat petulant tone,--

"I will be glad, sir, if you will leave us alone."

The little boy at this juncture set up a loud cry, and amid the general confusion, Jerome left
the ground and returned to his hotel.

While seated at the window of his room looking out upon the crowded street, with every now
and then the strange scene in the graveyard vividly before him, Jerome suddenly thought of
the book he had been reading, and, remembering that he had left it on the tombstone, where
he dropped it when called to the lady's assistance, he determined to return for it at once.

After a walk of some twenty minutes, he found himself again in the burial-ground and on the
spot where he had been an hour before. The pensive moon was already up, and its soft light
was sleeping on the little pond at the back of the grounds, while the stars seemed smiling
at their own sparkling rays gleaming up from the beautiful sheet of water. The stillness of
death reigned over the place; even the little birds, that had before been twittering and flying
about, had retired for the night.

Taking up the bunch of flowers, Jerome returned to his hotel.

"What can this mean?" he would ask himself; "and why should they take my book?" These questions
he put to himself again and again during his walk. His sleep was broken more than once that
night, and he welcomed the early dawn as it made its appearance.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE HAPPY MEETING.

After passing a sleepless night, and hearing the clock strike six, Jerome took from his table
a book, and thus endeavored to pass away the hours before breakfast-time. While thus engaged,
a servant entered and handed him a note. Hastily tearing it open, Jerome read as follows:--

"Sir,--I owe you an apology for the abrupt manner in which I addressed you last evening, and
the inconvenience to which you were subjected by some of my household.

I am, sir, yours, &c,                            J. DEVENANT.
  JEROME FLETCHER, Esq."

Who this gentleman was, and how he had found out his name and the hotel at which he was stopping,
were alike mysteries to Jerome. And this note seemed to his puzzled brain like a challenge.
"Satisfaction?" He had not asked for satisfaction. However, he resolved to accept the invitation,
and, if need be, meet the worst. At any rate, this most mysterious and complicated affair would
be explained.

The clock on a neighboring church had scarcely finished striking three when a servant announced
to Jerome that a carriage had called for him. In a few minutes, he was seated in a sumptuous
barouche, drawn by a pair of beautiful iron-grays, and rolling over a splendid gravel road
entirely shaded by trees, which appeared to have been the accumulated growth of many centuries.
The carriage soon stopped at a low villa, which was completely embowered in trees.

Jerome alighted, and was shown into a superb room, with the walls finely decorated with splendid
tapestry, and the ceilings exquisitely frescoed. High-backed chairs stood around the room,
rich curtains of crimson damask hung in folds on either side of the window, and a beautiful,
rich, Turkey carpet covered the floor. In the centre of the room stood a table covered with
books, in the midst of which was a vase of fresh flowers, loading the atmosphere with their
odors. A faint light, together with the quiet of the hour, gave beauty beyond description to
the whole scene. A half-open door showed a fine marble floor to an adjoining room, with pictures,
statues, and antiquated sofas, and flower-pots filled with rare plants of every kind and description.
Her dark, bright eyes flashed as she caught the first sight of Jerome. The gentleman immediately
arose on the entrance of the lady, and Mr. Devenant was in the act of introducing the stranger
when he observed that Jerome had sunk back upon the sofa, in a faint voice exclaiming,--

"It is she!"

After this, all was dark and dreary. How long he remained in this condition, it was for others
to tell. As soon as Jerome had so far recovered as to be able to speak, he said,--

"Where am I, and what does all this mean?"

"Wait awhile," replied the old man, "and I will tell you all."

At this juncture, the lady again entered the room.

"How did you find out my name and address?" inquired Jerome.

"After you had left the grave-yard," replied Clotelle, "our little boy said, 'Oh, mamma! if
there ain't a book!' I opened the book, and saw your name written in it, and also found a card
of the Hotel de Leon.

As she uttered the last words, tears--the sweet bright tears that love alone can bring forth--bedewed
her cheeks.

"Are you married?" now inquired Clotelle, with a palpitating heart and trembling voice.

"No, I am not, and never have been," was Jerome's reply.

"Then, thank God!" she exclaimed, in broken accents.

It was then that hope gleamed up amid the crushed and broken flowers of her heart, and a bright
flash darted forth like a sunbeam.

"Are you single now?" asked Jerome.

"Yes, I am," was the answer.

"Then you will be mine after all?" said he with a smile.

Her dark, rich hair had partly come down, and hung still more loosely over her shoulders than
when she first appeared; and her eyes, now full of animation and vivacity, and her sweet, harmonious,
and well-modulated voice, together with her modesty, self-possession, and engaging manners,
made Clotelle appear lovely beyond description. Although past the age when men ought to think
of matrimony, yet the scene before Mr. Devenant brought vividly to his mind the time when he
was young and had a loving bosom companion living, and tears were wiped from the old man's
eyes. A new world seemed to unfold itself before the eyes of the happy lovers, and they were
completely absorbed in contemplating the future. Furnished by nature with a disposition to
study, and a memory so retentive that all who knew her were surprised at the ease with which
she acquired her education and general information, Clotelle might now be termed a most accomplished
lady. After her marriage with young Devenant, they proceeded to India, where the husband's
regiment was stationed. Soon after their arrival, however, a battle was fought with the natives,
in which several officers fell, among whom was Captain Devenant. The father of the young captain
being there at the time, took his daughter-in-law and brought her back to France, where they
took up their abode at the old homestead.

Old Mr. Devenant was possessed of a large fortune, all of which he intended for his daughter-in-law
and her only child.

Although Clotelle had married young Devenant, she had not forgotten her first love, and her
father-in-law now willingly gave his consent to her marriage with Jerome. Jerome felt that
to possess the woman of his love, even at that late hour, was compensation enough for the years
that he had been separated from her, and Clotelle wanted no better evidence of his love for
her than the fact of his having remained so long unmarried. It was indeed a rare instance of
devotion and constancy in a man, and the young widow gratefully appreciated it.

It was late in the evening when Jerome led his intended bride to the window, and the magnificent
moonlight illuminated the countenance of the lovely Clotelle, while inward sunshine, emanating
from a mind at ease, and her own virtuous thoughts, gave brightness to her eyes and made her
appear a very angel. This was the first evening that Jerome had been in her company since the
night when, to effect his escape from prison, she disguised herself in male attire. How different
the scene now. Free instead of slaves, wealthy instead of poor, and on the eve of an event
that seemed likely to result in a life of happiness to both.

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE HAPPY DAY.

It was a bright day in the latter part of October that Jerome and Clotelle set out for the
church, where the marriage ceremony was to be performed. The clear, bracing air added buoyancy
to every movement, and the sun poured its brilliant rays through the deeply-stained windows,
as the happy couple entered the sanctuary, followed by old Mr. Devenant, whose form, bowed
down with age, attracted almost as much attention from the assembly as did the couple more
particularly interested.

As the ceremonies were finished and the priest pronounced the benediction on the newly-married
pair, Clotelle whispered in the ear of Jerome,--

  "'No power in death shall tear our names apart,
  As none in life could rend thee from my heart.'"

A smile beamed on every face as the wedding-party left the church and entered their carriage.
What a happy day, after ten years' separation, when, both hearts having been blighted for a
time, they are brought together by the hand of a beneficent and kind Providence, and united
in holy wedlock.

Everything being arranged for a wedding tour extending up the Rhine, the party set out the
same day for Antwerp. There are many rivers of greater length and width than the Rhine. Our
Mississippi would swallow up half a dozen Rhines. The Hudson is grander, the Tiber, the Po,
and the Minclo more classic; the Thames and Seine bear upon their waters greater amounts of
wealth and commerce; the Nile and the Euphrates have a greater antiquity; but for a combination
of interesting historical incidents and natural scenery, the Rhine surpasses them all. Nature
has so ordained it that those who travel in the valley of the Rhine shall see the river, for
there never will be a railroad upon its banks. So mountainous is the land that it would have
to be one series of tunnels. Every three or four miles from the time you enter this glorious
river, hills, dales, castles, and crags present themselves as the steamer glides onward.

Their first resting-place for any length of time was at Coblentz, at the mouth of the "Blue
Moselle," the most interesting place on the river. From Coblentz they went to Brussels, where
they had the greatest attention paid them. Besides being provided with letters of introduction,
Jerome's complexion secured for him more deference than is usually awarded to travellers.

Having letters of introduction to M. Deceptiax, the great lace manufacturer, that gentleman
received them with distinguished honors, and gave them a splendid soiree, at which the elite
of the city were assembled. The sumptuously-furnished mansion was lavishly decorated for the
occasion, and every preparation made that could add to the novelty or interest of the event.

Jerome, with his beautiful bride, next visited Cologne, the largest and wealthiest city on
the banks of the Rhine. The Cathedral of Cologne is the most splendid structure of the kind
in Europe, and Jerome and Clotelle viewed with interest the beautiful arches and columns of
this stupendous building, which strikes with awe the beholder, as he gazes at its unequalled
splendor, surrounded, as it is, by villas, cottages, and palace-like mansions, with the enchanting
Rhine winding through the vine-covered hills.

After strolling over miles and miles of classic ground, and visiting castles, whose legends
and traditions have given them an enduring fame, our delighted travellers started for Geneva,
bidding the picturesque banks of the Rhine a regretful farewell. Being much interested in literature,
and aware that Geneva was noted for having been the city of refuge to the victims of religious
and political persecution, Jerome arranged to stay here for some days. He was provided with
a letter of introduction to M. de Stee, who had been a fellow-soldier of Mr. Devenant in the
East India wars, and they were invited to make his house their home during their sojourn. On
the side of a noble mountain, whose base is kissed by the waves of Lake Geneva, and whose slopes
are decked with verdure to the utmost peak of its rocky crown, is situated the delightful country
residence of this wealthy, retired French officer. A winding road, with frequent climbs and
brakes, leads from the valley to this enchanting spot, the air and scenery of which cannot
be surpassed in the world.

CHAPTER XXXIV

CLOTELLE MEETS HER FATHER.

The clouds that had skirted the sky during the day broke at last, and the rain fell in torrents,
as Jerome and Clotelle retired for the night, in the little town of Ferney, on the borders
of Lake Leman. The peals of thunder, and flashes of vivid lightening, which seemed to leap
from mountain to mountain and from crag to crag, reverberating among the surrounding hills,
foretold a heavy storm.

"I would we were back at Geneva," said Clotelle, as she heard groans issuing from an adjoining
room. The sounds, at first faint, grew louder and louder, plainly indicating that some person
was suffering extreme pain.

"I did not like this hotel, much, when we came in," I said Jerome, relighting the lamp, which
had been accidentally extinguished.

"Nor I," returned Clotelle.

The shrieks increased, and an occasional "She's dead!" "I killed her!" "No, she is not dead!"
and such-like expressions, would be heard from the person, who seemed to be deranged.

The thunder grew louder, and the flashes of lightning more vivid, while the noise from the
sick-room seemed to increase.

As Jerome opened the door, to learn, if possible, the cause of the cries and groans, he could
distinguish the words, "She's dead! yes, she's dead! but I did not kill her. She was my child!
my own daughter. I loved her, and yet I did not protect her."

"Whoever he is," said Jerome, "he's crack-brained; some robber, probably, from the mountains."

The storm continued to rage, and the loud peals of thunder and sharp flashes of lightening,
together with the shrieks and moans of the maniac in the adjoining room, made the night a fearful
one. The long hours wore slowly away, but neither Jerome nor his wife could sleep, and they
arose at an early hour in the morning, ordered breakfast, and resolved to return to Geneva.

"I am sorry, sir, that you were so much disturbed by the sick man last night," said the landlord,
as he handed Jerome his bill. "I should be glad if he would get able to go away, or die, for
he's a deal of trouble to me. Several persons have left my house on his account."

"Where is he from?" inquired Jerome.

"He's from the United States, and has been here a week to-day, and has been crazy ever since."

"Has he no friends with him?" asked the guest.

"No, he is alone," was the reply.

Jerome related to his wife what he had learned from the landlord, respecting the sick man,
and the intelligence impressed her so strongly, that she requested him to make further inquiries
concerning the stranger.

He therefore consulted the book in which guests usually register their names, and, to his great
surprise, found that the American's name was Henry Linwood, and that he was from Richmond, Va.

It was with feelings of trepidation that Clotelle heard these particulars from the lips of
her husband.

"We must see this poor man, whoever he is," said she, as Jerome finished the sentence.

The landlord was glad to hear that his guests felt some interest in the sick man, and promised
that the invalid's room should be got ready for their reception.

The clock in the hall was just striking ten, as Jerome passed through and entered the sick
man's chamber. Stretched upon a mattress, with both hands tightly bound to the bedstead, the
friendless stranger was indeed a pitiful sight. His dark, dishevelled hair prematurely gray,
his long, unshaven beard, and the wildness of the eyes which glanced upon them as they opened
the door and entered, caused the faint hope which had so suddenly risen in Clotelle's heart,
to sink, and she felt that this man could claim no kindred with her. Certainly, he bore no
resemblance to the man whom she had called her father, and who had fondly dandled her on his
knee in those happy days of childhood.

"Help!" cried the poor man, as Jerome and his wife walked into the room. His eyes glared, and
shriek after shriek broke forth from his parched and fevered lips.

"No, I did not kill my daughter!--I did not! she is not dead! Yes, she is dead! but I did not
kill her--poor girl Look! that is she! No, it cannot be! she cannot come here! it cannot be
my poor Clotelle."

At the sound of her own name, coming from the maniac's lips, Clotelle gasped for breath, and
her husband saw that she had grown deadly pale. It seemed evident to him that the man was either
guilty of some terrible act, or imagined himself to be. His eyeballs rolled in their sockets,
and his features showed that he was undergoing "the tortures of that inward hell," which seemed
to set his whole brain on fire.

After recovering her self-possession and strength, Clotelle approached the bedside, and laid
her soft hand upon the stranger's hot and fevered brow.

One long, loud shriek rang out on the air, and a piercing cry, "It is she!---Yes, it is she!
I see, I see! Ah! no, it is not my daughter! She would not come to me if she could!" broke
forth from him.

"I am your daughter," said Clotelle, as she pressed her handkerchief to her face, and sobbed aloud.

Like balls of fire, the poor man's eyes rolled and glared upon the company, while large drops
of perspiration ran down his pale and emaciated face. Strange as the scene appeared, all present
saw that it was indeed a meeting between a father and his long-lost daughter. Jerome now ordered
all present to leave the room, except the nurse, and every effort was at once made to quiet
the sufferer. When calm, a joyous smile would illuminate the sick man's face, and a strange
light beam in his eyes, as he seemed to realize that she who stood before him was indeed his child.

For two long days and nights did Clotelle watch at the bedside of her father before he could
speak to her intelligently. Sometimes, in his insane fits, he would rave in the most frightful
manner, and then, in a few moments, would be as easily governed as a child. At last, however,
after a long and apparently refreshing sleep, he awoke suddenly to a full consciousness that
it was indeed his daughter who was watching so patiently by his side.

The presence of his long absent child had a soothing effect upon Mr. Linwood, and he now recovered
rapidly from the sad and almost hopeless condition in which she had found him. When able to
converse, without danger of a relapse, he told Clotelle of his fruitless efforts to obtain
a clew to her whereabouts after old Mrs. Miller had sold her to the slave-trader. In answer
to his daughter's inquiries about his family affairs up to the time that he left America, he
said,--

"I blamed my wife for your being sold and sent away, for I thought she and her mother were
acting in collusion; But I afterwards found that I had blamed her wrongfully. Poor woman! she
knew that I loved your mother, and feeling herself forsaken, she grew melancholy and died in
a decline three years ago."

Here both father and daughter wept at the thought of other days. When they had recovered their
composure, Mr. Linwood went on again:

"Old Mrs. Miller," said he, "after the death of Gertrude, aware that she had contributed much
toward her unhappiness, took to the free use of intoxicating drinks, and became the most brutal
creature that ever lived. She whipped her slaves without the slightest provocation, and seemed
to take delight in inventing new tortures with which to punish them. One night last winter,
after having flogged one of her slaves nearly to death, she returned to her room, and by some
means the bedding took fire, and the house was in flames before any one was awakened. There
was no one in the building at the time but the old woman and the slaves, and although the latter
might have saved their mistress, they made no attempt to do so. Thus, after a frightful career
of many years, this hard-hearted woman died a most miserable death, unlamented by a single person."

Clotelle wiped the tears from her eyes, as her father finished this story, for, although Mrs.
Miller had been her greatest enemy, she regretted to learn that her end had been such a sad one.

"My peace of mind destroyed," resumed the father, "and broke down in health, my physician advised
me to travel, with the hope o recruiting myself, and I sailed from New York two months ago." This could see the whole picture and unhindered. Barrier formed front crossed the mountain
opposite the hill on the left, and another that was to my right, well populated with vegetation
at the base, very dark brown in the middle, from top to bottom, of what might be called its
trunk crudísimo green on the other half, and with the huge gray head, like a skinned skull,
dry environment to the left shoulder with the white bones in the air too. I had the effect that vast
green patch, fine and juicy, then almost face illuminated by a ray of sun, a patch of velvet
rich in a garment of coarse sackcloth.


Fifteen days from the time that Clotelle was introduced into her father's room, they left Ferney
for Geneva. Many were the excursions Clotelle made under the shadows of Mont Blanc, and with
her husband and father for companions; she was now in the enjoyment of pleasures hitherto unknown.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE FATHER'S RESOLVE.

Aware that her father was still a slave-owner, Clotelle determined to use all her persuasive
power to induce him to set them free, and in this effort she found a substantial supporter
in her husband.

"I have always treated my slaves well," said Mr. Linwood to Jerome, as the latter expressed
his abhorrence of the system; "and my neighbors, too, are generally good men; for slavery in.
Virginia is not like slavery in the other States," continued the proud son of the Old Dominion.

"Their right to be free, Mr. Linwood," said Jerome, "is taken from them, and they have no security
for their comfort, but the humanity and generosity of men, who have been trained to regard
them not as brethren, but as mere property. Humanity and generosity are, at best, but poor
guaranties for the protection of those who cannot assert their rights, and over whom law throws
no protection."

It was with pleasure that Clotelle obtained from her father a promise that he would liberate
all his slaves on his return to Richmond. In a beautiful little villa, situated in a pleasant
spot, fringed with hoary rocks and thick dark woods, within sight of the deep blue waters of
Lake Leman, Mr. Linwood, his daughter, and her husband, took up their residence for a short
time. For more than three weeks, this little party spent their time in visiting the birth-place
of Rousseau, and the former abodes of Byron, Gibbon, Voltaire, De Stael, Shelley, and other
literary characters.

We can scarcely contemplate a visit to a more historic and interesting place than Geneva and
its vicinity. Here, Calvin, that great luminary in the Church, lived and ruled for years; here,
Voltaire, the mighty genius, who laid the foundation of the French Revolution, and who boasted,
"When I shake my wig, I powder the whole republic," governed in the higher walks of life.

Fame is generally the recompense, not of the living, but of the dead,--not always do they reap
and gather in the harvest who sow the seed; the flame of its altar is too often kindled from
the ashes of the great. No reputation can be called great that will not endure this test. The
distinguished men who had lived in Geneva transfused their spirit, by their writings, into
the spirit of other lovers of literature and everything that treated of great authors. Jerome
and Clotelle lingered long in and about the haunts of Geneva and Lake Leman.

An autumn sun sent down her bright rays, and bathed every object in her glorious light, as
Clotelle, accompanied by her husband and father set out one fine morning on her return home
to France. Throughout the whole route, Mr. Linwood saw by the deference paid to Jerome, whose
black complexion excited astonishment in those who met him, that there was no hatred to the
man in Europe, on account of his color; that what is called prejudice against color is the
offspring of the institution of slavery; and he felt ashamed of his own countrymen, when he
thought of the complexion as distinctions, made in the United States, and resolved to dedicate
the remainder of his life to the eradication of this unrepublican and unchristian feeling from
the land of his birth, on his return home.

After a stay of four weeks at Dunkirk, the home of the Fletchers, Mr. Linwood set out for America,
with the full determination of freeing his slaves, and settling them in one of the Northern
States, and then to return to France to end his days in the society of his beloved daughter.

THE END.

NOTE.--The author of the foregoing tale was formerly a Kentucky slave. If it serves to relieve
the monotony of camp-life to the soldiers of the Union, and therefore of Liberty, and at the
same time kindles their zeal in the cause of universal emancipation, the object both of its
author and publisher will be gained. J. R.

