Aubrey's face fell; he had a strong inclination for Leonard's company, and likewise for the
trout in the mill tail, and he did not like his independence to be unappreciated.

'You see,' said Leonard, laying his hand kindly on his shoulder, 'it is very jolly of you,
but I know they would hate it in the High Street if you were often here, and it is not worth
that.  Besides, Aubrey, to tell the plain truth, Sam's not fit company for any decent fellow.'

'I can't think how he came to ask me to fish.'

'Just to show he is master, because he knew the poor old man would not like it!  It is one
reason he is so savage with me, because his uncle took me without his consent.'

'But, Leonard, it must be worse than the living at home ever was.'

Leonard laughed.  'It's different being jawed in the way of business and at one's own home.
I'd go through a good deal more than I do here in the week to have home what it is now on Sunday.
Why, Henry really seems glad to see me, and we have not had the shadow of a row since I came
over here.  Don't you tell Ave all this, mind, and you may just as well not talk about it at
home, you know, or they will think I'm going to cry off.'

Aubrey was going to ask what he looked to; but Leonard saw, or thought he saw, a weasel in
the hedge, and the consequent charge and pursuit finished the dialogue, the boys parted, and
Aubrey walked home, his satisfaction in his expedition oozing away at every step, though his
resolve to assert his liberty grew in proportion.

Of course it had not been possible to conceal from Dr. May where Aubrey was gone, and his annoyance
had burst out vehemently, the whole round of objurgations against the Wards, the Vintry Mill,
and his own folly in fostering the friendship, were gone through, and Ethel had come in for
more than she could easily bear, for not having prevented the escapade.  Gertrude had hardly
ever seen her father so angry, and sat quaking for her brother; and Ethel meekly avoided answering
again, with the happy trustfulness of experienced love.

At last, as the tea was nearly over, Aubrey walked in, quite ready for self-defence.  Nobody
spoke for a little while, except to supply him with food; but presently Dr. May said, not at
all in the tone in which he had talked of his son's journey, 'You might as well have told me
of your intentions, Aubrey.'

'I didn't think they mattered to anybody,' said Aubrey; 'we generally go our own way in the
afternoon.'

'Oh!' said Dr. May.  'Interference with the liberty of the subject?'

Aubrey coloured, and felt he had not quite spoken truth.  'I could not give him up, father,'
he said, less defiantly.

'No, certainly not; but I had rather you only saw him at home.  It will be more for our peace
of mind.'

'Well, father,' said Aubrey, 'I am not going there any more.  He told me not himself:' and
then with laughing eyes he added, 'He said you would not like it, Ethel.'

'Poor boy!' said Ethel, greatly touched.

'Very right of him,' said Dr. May, well pleased.  'He is a fine lad, and full of proper feeling.
What sort of a berth has the old rogue given him, Aubrey?'

Much relieved that matters had taken this course, Aubrey tried to tell only as much as his
friend would approve, but the medium was not easily found, and pretty nearly the whole came
out.  Dr. May was really delighted to hear how Sam treated him.

'If that fellow takes the oppressive line, there may be some hope,' he said.  'His friendship
is the worse danger than his enmity.'

When the sisters had bidden good night, the Doctor detained Aubrey to say very kindly, 'My
boy, I do not like to hear of your running counter to your sister.

'I'm not going there again,' said Aubrey, willing to escape.

'Wait a minute, Aubrey,' said Dr. May; 'I want to tell you that I feel for you in this matter
more than my way of talking may have made it seem to you.  I have a great regard for your friend
Leonard, and think he has been scandalously used, and I don't want to lessen your attachment
to him.  Far be it from me to think lightly of a friendship, especially of one formed at your
age.  Your very name, my boy, shows that I am not likely to do that!'

Aubrey smiled frankly, his offended self-assertion entirely melted.

'I know it is very hard on you, but you can understand that the very reasons that made me so
averse to Leonard's taking this situation, would make me anxious to keep you away from his
relations there, not necessarily from him.  As long as he is what he is now, I would not lift
a finger to keep you from him.  Have I ever done so, Aubrey?'

'No, papa.'

'Nor will I, as long as he is what I see him now.  After this, Aubrey, is it too much to ask
of you to keep out of the way of the persons with whom he is thrown?'

'I will do so, papa.  He wishes it himself.'  Then with an effort, he added, 'I am sorry I
went to-day; I ought not, but--' and he looked a little foolish.

'You did not like taking orders from the girls?  No wonder, Aubrey; I have been very thankful
to you for bearing it as you have done.  It is the worst of home education that these spirits
of manliness generally have no vent but mischief.  But you are old enough now to be thankful
for such a friend and adviser as Ethel, and I don't imagine that she orders you.'

'No,' said Aubrey, smiling and mumbling; 'but Daisy--'

'Oh, I can quite understand the aggravation of Daisy happening to be right; but you must really
be man enough to mind your own conscience, even if Daisy is imprudent enough to enforce it.'

'It was not only that,' said Aubrey, 'but I could not have Ward thinking I turned up my nose
at his having got into business.'

'No, Aubrey, he need never fancy it is the business that I object to, but the men.  Make that
clear to him, and ask him to this house as much as you please.  The more "thorough" he is in
his business, the more I shall respect him.'

Aubrey smiled, and thanked his father with a cleared brow, wondering at himself for having
gone without consulting him.

'Good night, my boy.  May this friendship of yours be a lifelong stay and blessing to you both,
even though it may cost you some pain and self-command, as all good things must, Aubrey.'

That evening Ethel had been writing to Cambridge.  Tom had passed his examination with great
credit, and taken an excellent degree, after which he projected a tour in Germany, for which
he had for some time been economizing, as a well-earned holiday before commencing his course
of hospitals and lectures.  Tom was no great correspondent, and had drilled his sisters into
putting nothing but the essential into their letters, instead, as he said, of concealing it
in flummery.  This is a specimen of the way Tom liked to be written to.

                                           'Stoneborough, Feb. 20th.
'My Dear Tom,

'Dr. Spencer says nothing answers so well as a knapsack.  Get one at ----. The price is L.
s. d.  Order extra fittings as required, including a knife and fork.  Letters from N. Z. of
the 1st of November, all well.  I wish Aubrey was going with you; he misses Leonard Ward so
sorely, as to be tempted to follow him to the Vintry Mill.  I suspect your words are coming
true, and the days of petticoat government ending.  However, even if he would not be in your
way, he could not afford to lose six months' study before going into residence.

                                           'Your affectionate sister,
                                                    'Etheldred May.'

Tom wrote that he should spend a night in London and come home.  When he came, the family exclaimed
that his microscope, whose handsome case he carried in his hand, was much grown.  'And improved
too, I hope' said Tom, proceeding to show off various new acquisitions and exchanges in the
way of eye-pieces, lenses, and other appliances of the most expensive order, till his father
exclaimed,

'Really, Tom, I wish I had the secret of your purse.'

'The fact is,' said Tom, 'that I thought more would be gained by staying at home, so I turned
my travels into a binocular tube,' &C.

Aubrey and Gertrude shouted that Tom certainly did love the microscope better than any earthly
thing; and he coolly accepted the inference.

Somewhat later, he announced that he had decided that he should be better able to profit by
the London lectures and hospitals, if he first studied for half a year at the one at Stoneborough,
under the direction of his father and Dr. Spencer.

Dr. May was extremely gratified, and really esteemed this one of the greatest compliments his
science had ever received; Dr. Spencer could not help observing, 'I did not think it was in
him to do such a wise thing.  I never can fathom the rogue.  I hope he was not bitten during
his benevolent exertions last winter.'

Meantime, Tom had observed that he had time to see that Aubrey was decently prepared for Cambridge,
and further promoted the boy to be his out-of-door companion, removing all the tedium and perplexity
of the last few weeks, though apparently merely indulging his own inclinations.  Ethel recognized
the fruit of her letter, and could well forgive the extra care in housekeeping required for
Tom's critical tastes, nay, the cool expulsion of herself and Gertrude from her twenty years'
home, the schoolroom, and her final severance from Aubrey's studies, though at the cost of
a pang that reminded her of her girlhood's sorrow at letting Norman shoot ahead of her.  She
gave no hint; she knew that implicit reserve was the condition of his strange silent confidence
in her, and that it would be utterly forfeited unless she allowed his fraternal sacrifice to
pass for mere long-headed prudence.

Aubrey's Saturday and Sunday meetings with his friend were not yielded, even to Tom, who endeavoured
to interfere with them, and would fain have cut the connection with the entire family, treating
Miss Ward with the most distant and supercilious bows on the unpleasantly numerous occasions
of meeting her in the street, and contriving to be markedly scornful in his punctilious civility
to Henry Ward when they met at the hospital.  His very look appeared a sarcasm, to the fancy
of the Wards; and he had a fashion of kindly inquiring after Leonard, that seemed to both a
deliberate reproach and insult.

Disputes had become less frequent at Bankside since Leonard's departure, and few occasions
of actual dissension arose; but the spirit of party was not extinguished, and the brother and
sister had adopted lines that perhaps clashed less because they diverged more.

Averil had, in reply to the constant exhortations to economize, resolved to decline all invitations,
and this kept her constantly at home, or with her harmonium, whereas Henry made such constant
engagements, that their dining together was the exception, not the rule.  After conscientiously
teaching her sisters in the morning, she devoted the rest of her day to their walk, and to
usefulness in the parish.  She liked her tasks, and would have been very happy in them, but
for the constant anxiety that hung over her lest her home should soon cease to be her home.

Henry's devotion to Mrs. Pugh could no longer be mistaken.  The conviction of his intentions
grew upon his sister, first from a mere absurd notion, banished from her mind with derision,
then from a misgiving angrily silenced, to a fixed expectation, confirmed by the evident opinion
of all around her, and calling for decision and self-command on her own part.

Perhaps her feelings were unnecessarily strong, and in some degree unjust to Mrs. Pugh; but
she had the misfortune to be naturally proud and sensitive, as well as by breeding too refined
in tone for most of those who surrounded her.  She had taken a personal dislike to Mrs. Pugh
from the first; she regarded pretension as insincerity, and officiousness as deliberate insult,
and she took the recoil of her taste for the judgment of principle.  To see such a woman ruling
in her mother's, her own, home would be bad enough; but to be ruled by her, and resign to her
the management of the children, would be intolerable beyond measure.  Too unhappy to speak
of her anticipations even to Leonard or to Mary May, she merely endeavoured to throw them off
from day to day, till one evening, when the days had grown so long that she could linger in
the twilight in the garden before her singing practice, she was joined by Henry, with the long
apprehended 'I want to speak to you, Ave.'

Was it coming?  Her heart beat so fast, that she could hardly hear his kind commencement about
her excellent endeavours, and the house's unhappy want of a mistress, the children's advantage,
and so on.  She knew it could only tend to one point, and longed to have it reached and passed.
Of course she would be prepared to hear who was the object of his choice, and she could not
but murmur 'Yes,' and 'Well.'

'And, Ave, you will, I hope, be gratified to hear that I am not entirely rejected.  The fact
is, that I spoke too soon.'  Averil could have jumped for joy, and was glad it was too dusk
for her face to be seen.  'I do not believe that her late husband could have had any strong
hold on her affections; but she has not recovered the shock of his loss, and entreated, as
a favour granted to her sentiments of respect for his memory, not to hear the subject mentioned
for at least another year.  I am permitted to visit at the house as usual, and no difference
is to be made in the terms on which we stand.  Now, Ave, will you--may I ask of you, to do
what you can to remove any impression that she might not be welcome in the family?'

'I never meant--' faltered Averil, checked by sincerity.

'You have always been--so--so cold and backward in cultivating her acquaintance, that I cannot
wonder if she should think it disagreeable to you; but, Ave, when you consider my happiness,
and the immense advantage to all of you, I am sure you will do what is in your power in my
behalf.'  He spoke more affectionately and earnestly than he had done for months; and Averil
was touched, and felt that to hang back would be unkind.

'I will try,' she said.  'I do hope it may turn out for your happiness, Henry.'

'For all our happiness,' said Henry, walking down to the gate and along the road with her,
proving all the way that he was acting solely for the good of the others, and that Averil and
the children would find their home infinitely happier.

A whole year--a year's reprieve--was the one thought in Averil's head, that made her listen
so graciously, and answer so amiably, that Henry parted with her full of kind, warm feeling.

As the sage said, who was to be beheaded if he could not in a year teach the king's ass to
speak--what might not happen in a year; the king might die, the ass might die, or he might
die--any way there was so much gained: and Averil, for the time, felt as light-hearted as if
Mrs. Pugh had vanished into empty air.  To be sure, her own life had, of late, been far from
happy; but this extension of it was bailed with suppressed ecstasy--almost as an answer to
her prayers.  Ah, Ave, little did you know what you wished in hoping for anything to prevent
the marriage!

She did obey her brother so far as to call upon Mrs. Pugh, whom she found in ordinary mourning,
and capless--a sign that dismayed her; but, on the other hand, the lady, though very good-natured
and patronizing, entertained her with the praises of King John, and showed her a copy of Magna
Charta in process of illumination.  Also, during her call, Tom May walked in with a little
book on drops of water; and Averil found the lady had become inspired with a microscopic furore,
and was thinking of setting up a lens, and preparing objects for herself, under good tuition.

Though Averil was very desirous that Mrs. Pugh should refuse her brother, yet this was the
last service she wished the May family to render her.  She was sure Tom May must dislike and
despise the widow as much as she did; and since the whole town was unluckily aware of Henry's
intentions, any interference with them was base and malicious, if in the way of mere amusement
and flirtation.  She was resolved to see what the game was, but only did see that her presence
greatly disconcerted 'Mr. Thomas May.'

Henry was wretched and irritable in the velvet paws of the widow, who encouraged him enough
to give him hope, and then held him aloof, or was equally amiable to some one else.  Perhaps
the real interpretation was, that she loved attention.  She was in all sincerity resolved to
observe a proper period of widowhood, and not determined whether, when, or how, it should terminate:
courtship amused her, and though attracted by Henry and his good house, the evidences of temper
and harshness had made her unwilling to commit herself; besides that, she was afraid of Averil,
and she was more flattered by the civilities of a lioncel like Harvey Anderson; or if she could
be sure of what Mr. Thomas May's intentions were, she would have preferred an embryo physician
to a full-grown surgeon--at any rate, it was right by her poor dear Mr. Pugh to wait.

She need not have feared having Averil as an inmate.  Averil talked it over with Leonard, and
determined that no power on earth should make her live with Mrs. Pugh.  If that were necessary
to forward his suit, she would make it plain that she was ready to depart.

'Oh, Leonard, if my uncle were but a nice sort of person, how pleasant it would be for me and
the children to live there, and keep his house; and I could make him so comfortable, and nurse
him!'

'Never, Ave!' cried Leonard; 'don't let the thing be talked of.'

'Oh no, I know it would not do with Samuel there; but should we be too young for your old scheme
of having a cottage together near?'

'I did not know what the Axworthys were like,' returned Leonard.

'But need we see them much?'

'I'll tell you what, Ave, I've heard them both--yes, the old man the worst of the two--say
things about women that made my blood boil.' Leonard was quite red as he spoke.  'My father
never let my mother see any of the concern, and now I know why.  I'll never let you do so.'

'Then there is only one other thing to be done,' said Averil; 'and that is for me to go back
to school as a parlour boarder, and take the children with me.  It would be very good for them,
and dear Mrs. Wood would be very glad to have me.'

'Yes,' said Leonard, 'that is the only right thing, Ave; and the Mays will say so, too.  Have
you talked it over with them!'

'No.  I hate talking of this thing.'

'Well, you had better get their advice.  It is the best thing going!' said Leonard, with a
sigh that sounded as if he wished he had taken it.

But it was not to Averil that he said so.  To her he spoke brightly of serving the time for
which he was bound to his uncle; then of making a fresh engagement, that would open a home
to her; or, better still, suppose Sam did not wish to go on with the business, he might take
it, and make the mill the lovely place it might be.  It was to Aubrey May that the boy's real
feelings came out, as, on the Sunday evening, they slowly wandered along the bank of the river.
Aubrey had seen a specimen of his life at the mill, and had been kept up to the knowledge of
its events, and he well knew that Leonard was heartily sick of it. That the occupation was
uncongenial and tedious in the extreme to a boy of good ability and superior education--nay,
that the drudgery was made unnecessarily oppressive, was not the point he complained of, though
it was more trying than he had expected, that was the bed that he had made, and that he must
lie upon.  It was the suspicion of frauds and tricks of the trade, and, still worse, the company
that he lived in. Sam Axworthy hated and tyrannized over him too much to make dissipation alluring;
and he was only disgusted by the foul language, coarse manners, and the remains of intemperance
worked on in violent temper.

The old man, though helpless and past active vice, was even more coarse in mind and conversation
than his nephew; and yet his feebleness, and Sam's almost savage treatment of him, enlisted
Leonard's pity on his side.  In general, the old man was kind to Leonard, but would abuse him
roundly when the evidences of his better principles and training, or his allegiance to Dr.
May, came forward, and Leonard, though greatly compassionating him, could not always bear his
reproaches with patience, and was held back from more attention to him than common humanity
required, by an unlucky suggestion that he was currying favour in the hope of supplanting Sam.

'Old Hardy is the only honest man in the place, I do believe,' said Leonard.  'I'll tell you
what, Aubrey, I have made up my mind, there is one thing I will not do.  If ever they want
to make me a party to any of their cheatings, I'll be off.  That window and the cedar-tree
stand very handy.  I've been out there to bathe in the early summer mornings, plenty of times
already, so never you be surprised if some fine day you hear--non est inventus.'

'And where would you go?'

'Get up to London, and see if my quarter's salary would take me out in the steerage to some
diggings or other.  What would your brother say to me if I turned up at the Grange--New Zealand?'

'Say!  Mention Ethel, and see what he would not say.'

And the two boys proceeded to arrange the details of the evasion in such vivid colouring, that
they had nearly forgotten all present troubles, above all when Leonard proceeded to declare
that New Zealand was too tame and too settled for him, he should certainly find something to
do in the Feejee Isles, where the high spirit of the natives, their painted visages, and marvellous
head-dresses, as depicted in Captain Erskine's voyage, had greatly fired his fancy, and they
even settled how the gold fields should rebuild the Market Cross.

'And when I'm gone, Aubrey, mind you see to Mab,' he said, laughing.

'Oh!  I thought Mab was to act Whittington's cat.'

'I'm afraid they would eat her up; besides, there's the voyage.  No, you must keep her till
I come home, even if she is to end like Argus. Would you die of joy at seeing me, eh, little
black neb?'

CHAPTER XII

                             Let us meet,
  And question this most bloody piece of work,
  To know it farther.                   Macbeth

'If you please, sir, Master Hardy from the Vintry Mill wants to see you, said a voice at Dr.
May's door early in the morning; and the Doctor completed his dressing in haste, muttering
to himself exclamations of concern that the old man's malady should have returned.

On entering the study, Hardy's appearance, whiter than even the proverbial hue of his trade,
his agitation of feature, confused eye, and trembling lip, inspired fears that the case was
more alarming than had been apprehended; but to cheer him, the Doctor began, 'Frightened about
yourself, Master Hardy, eh!  You've come out without breakfast, and that's enough to put any
man out of heart.'

'No, sir,' said the old man, 'it is nothing about myself; I wish it were no worse; but I've
not got the heart to go to tell the poor young gentleman, and I thought--'

'What--what has happened to the boy?' exclaimed Dr. May, sharply, standing as if ready to receive
the rifle shot which he already believed had destroyed Leonard.

'That's what we can't say, sir,' returned Hardy; 'but he is gone, no one knows where.  And,
sir, my poor master was found at five o'clock this morning, in his chair in his sitting-room,
stone dead from a blow on the head.'

'Mind what you are saying!' shouted the Doctor passionately.  'You old scoundrel, you don't
mean to tell me that you are accusing the lad!'

'I accuse nobody, sir,' said the old man, standing his ground, and speaking steadily, but respectfully,
'I wouldn't say nothing to bring any one into trouble if I could help it, and I came to ask
you what was to be done.'

'Yes, yes; I beg your pardon, Hardy, but it sounded enough to overset one.  Your poor master
murdered, you say!'

Hardy nodded assent.

'And young Ward missing?  Why, the burglars must have hurt the poor fellow in defending his
uncle.  Have you searched the place?'

'I never thought of that, sir,' said Hardy, his countenance much relieved; 'it would be more
like such a young gentleman as Mr. Ward.'

'Then we'll get over to the mill as fast as we can, and see what can be done,' said Dr. May,
snatching up his hat and gloves. 'You come and walk with me to Bankside, and tell me by the
way about this terrible business.  Good heavens! they'll have thrown the boy into the river!'

And calling out that his carriage should follow to Bankside, the Doctor dashed up-stairs, and
knocked at Ethel's door.  'My dear,' he said, 'there has been a robbery or something at the
Vintry Mill.  I must go and see Henry Ward about it.  Poor old Axworthy is murdered, and I'm
terribly afraid Leonard has met with some foul play.  You or Mary had better go and see about
Ave presently, but don't believe a word of anything till you see me again.'

And shutting the door, while Ethel felt as if the room were reeling round with her, Dr. May
was in a few seconds more hastening along by Hardy's side, extracting from him the little he
had to tell.  The old man had been unlocking the door of the mill at five o'clock, when he
was summoned by loud shrieks from the window of Mr. Axworthy's sitting-room, and found that
the little maid had been appalled by the sight of her master sunk forward from his gouty chair
upon the table, his hair covered with blood.  Hardy had been the first to touch him, and to
perceive that he had long been dead.  The housekeeper, the only other servant who slept in
the house, had rushed in half-dressed; but neither nephew appeared.  Young Axworthy had gone
the previous day to the county races, leaving the time of his return doubtful, and Leonard
Ward did not answer when called.  It was then found that his room was empty, his bed untouched,
and the passage window outside his door left open.  The terrified servants held confused consultation,
and while the groom had hurried off to give the alarm at Whitford, and ride on in search of
Sam Axworthy, Hardy had taken another horse and started to inform Henry Ward, but his heart
failing him, he had come to beg the Doctor to break the intelligence to the family.

Dr. May had few doubts that the robbers must have entered by the passage window, and meeting
resistance from Leonard, must have dragged him out, and perhaps thrown him from it, then having
gone on to their murderous work in the old man's sitting-room.  In that great rambling house,
where the maids slept afar off, and the rats held nightly gambols, strange noises were not
likely to be observed; and the thought of Leonard lying stunned and insensible on the grass,
made the Doctor's pace almost a run, as if he were hastening to the rescue.

When Mr. Ward sent down word that he was not up, Dr. May replied that he must see him in bed,
and followed upon the very heels of the messenger, encountering no amiable face, for Henry
had armed himself for defence against any possible reproaches for his treatment of any patient.
Even when Dr. May began, 'Henry, my poor fellow, I have frightful news for you,' his month
was opening to reply, 'I knew we should lose that case,' let the patient be who he might, when
the few simple words put to flight all petulant jealousy, and restored Henry Ward to what he
had been when in his hour of sickness and affliction he had leant in full confidence on Dr.
May's unfailing kindness.

He was dressed by the time the brougham was at the door, and would have hurried off without
telling his sister of the alarm; but Dr. May, knowing that the town must soon be ringing with
the news, was sending him to Averil's room, when both rejoiced to see Mary enter the house.
Charging her to keep Averil quiet, and believe nothing but what came from themselves, they
thrust on her the terrible commission and hastened away, dwelling on the hope that every moment
might be important.

Old Hardy had already mounted his cart-horse, and for him farm roads so shortened the distance,
that he received them at the entrance of the courtyard, which was crowded with excited gazers
and important policemen.

'Found him?' was the instantaneous question of both; but Hardy shook his head so sadly, that
the Doctor hastily exclaimed, 'What then?'

'Sir,' said Hardy very low, and with a deprecating look, 'he did go up by the mail train to
London last night--got in at Blewer station at 12.15.  They have telegraphed up, sir.'

'I'll lay my life it is all a mistake,' said Dr. May, grasping Henry's arm as if to give him
support, and looking him in the face as though resolved that neither should be cast down.

'That's not all, sir,' added Hardy, still addressing himself to the elder gentleman.  'There's
his rifle, sir.'

'Why, he was not shot!' sharply cried Dr. May.  'You told me so yourself.'

'No, sir; but--You'll see for yourself presently!  There's the blood and gray hairs on the
stock, sir.'

'Never fear, Henry; we shall see,' said Dr. May, pressing on, and adding as soon as they were
out of hearing,  'Nothing those folks, even the best of them, like so well as laying on horrors
thick enough.'

A policeman stood at the house door to keep off idlers; but Dr. May's character and profession,
as well as his municipal rank, caused way to be instantly made for them.  They found a superintendent
within, and he at once began, 'Most unfortunate business, Mr. Mayor--very mysterious;' then,
as a sign from the Doctor made him aware of Henry Ward's near concern, he added, 'Shall I inform
young Mr. Axworthy that you are here?'

'Is he come?'

'Yes, sir.  He had only slept at the Three Goblets, not half a mile across the fields, you
know, Mr. Mayor--came home too late to disturb the house here, slept there, and was on the
spot at the first intelligence--before I was myself,' added the superintendent a little jealously.

'Where is he?'

'In his room, sir.  He was extremely overcome, and retired to his room as soon as the necessary
steps had been taken.  Would you wish to see the room, sir?  We are keeping it locked till
the inquest takes place; but--'

Henry asked, 'When?' his first word since his arrival, and almost inarticulate.

He was answered that it would probably be at two that afternoon; the Whitford coroner had intimated
that he was ready, and the down train would be in by one.  A telegram had just arrived, reporting
that the electric message had anticipated the mail train, and that young Mr. Ward would be
brought down in time.

'Never mind, never heed, Henry,' persisted Dr. May, pressing the young man's arm as they proceeded
to the door of the sitting-room; 'he must be intensely shocked, but he will explain the whole.
Nay, I've no doubt we shall clear him.  His rifle, indeed!  I could swear to his rifle anywhere.'

The superintendent had by this time opened the door of the sitting-room, communicating on one
side with the office, on the other with the old man's bed-room.

Except that the body had been carried to the bed in the inner chamber, all remained as it had
been found.  There were no signs of robbery--not even of a struggle.  The cushions of the easy-chair
still bore the impress of the sitter's weight; the footstool was hardly pushed aside; the massive
library table was undisturbed; the silver spoons and sugar-tongs beside the tumbler and plate
on the supper tray; the yellow light of the lamp still burnt; not a paper was ruffled, not
a drawer pulled out.  Only a rifle stood leaning against the window shutter, and towards it
both friend and brother went at once, hoping and trusting that it would be a stranger to their
eyes.

Alas! alas! only too familiar were the rich brown mottlings of the stock, the steel mountings,
the eagle crest, and twisted H. E. cipher! and in sickness of heart the Doctor could not hide
from himself the dark clot of gore and the few white hairs adhering to the wood, and answering
to the stain that dyed the leather of the desk.

Henry could not repress an agonized groan, and averted his face; but his companion undaunted
met the superintendent's eye and query, 'You know it, sir!'

'I do.  It was my son-in-law's present to him.  I wonder where he kept it, for the ruffians
to get hold of it.'

The superintendent remained civil and impassive, and no one spoke to break the deathly hush
of the silent room, filled with the appliances of ordinary business life, but tainted with
the awful unexplained mark that there had been the foot of the shedder of blood in silence
and at unawares.

The man in authority at length continued his piteous exhibition.  Dr. Rankin of Whitford had
arrived on the first alarm; but would not the gentlemen see the body?  And he led them on,
Dr. May's eyes on the alert to seize on anything exculpatory, but detecting nothing, seeing
only the unwieldy helpless form and aged feeble countenance of the deceased, and receiving
fresh impressions of the brutality and cowardice of the hand that could have struck the blow.
He looked, examined, defined the injury, and explained that it must have caused instant death,
thus hoping to divert attention from his pale horror-stricken companion, whose too apparent
despondency almost provoked him.

At the Doctor's request they were taken up the staircase into the corridor, and shown the window,
which had been found nearly closed but not fastened, as though it had been partially shut down
from the outside.  The cedar bough almost brushed the glass, and the slope of turf came so
high up the wall, that an active youth could easily swing himself down to it; and the superintendent
significantly remarked that the punt was on the farther side of the stream, whereas the evening
before it had been on the nearer.  Dr. May leant out over the window-sill, still in the lingering
hope of seeing--he knew not what, but he only became oppressed by the bright still summer beauty
of the trees and grass and sparkling water, insensible of the horror that brooded over all.
He drew back his head; and as the door hard by was opened, Leonard's little dog sprang from
her basket kennel, wagging her tail in hopes of her master, but in her disappointment greeting
one whom dogs always hailed as a friend,

'Poor little doggie! good little Mab!  If only you could tell us!' and the creature fondly
responded to his gentle hand, though keeping aloof from Henry, in mindfulness of past passages
between them, while Henry could evidently not bear to look at her.

They gazed round the room, but it conveyed no elucidation of the mystery.  There were Leonard's
books in their range on the drawers, his fossils in his cupboard, his mother's photograph on
his mantel-piece, his sister's drawings on the wall.  His gray uniform lay on the bed as if
recently taken off, his ordinary office coat was folded on a chair, and he seemed to have dressed
and gone in his best clothes.  While anxiously seeking some note of explanation, they heard
a step, and Sam Axworthy entered, speaking fast and low in apology for not having sooner appeared,
but he had been thoroughly upset; as indeed he looked, his whole appearance betraying the disorder
of the evening's dissipation, followed by the morning's shock.

Most unfortunate, he said, that he had not returned earlier.  His friend Black--Tom Black,
of Edsall Green--had driven him home in his dog-cart, set him down at the turn to cross the
fields--moon as light as day--no notion, of the lateness till he got in sight of the great
clock, and saw it was half-past twelve; so knowing the early habits of the place, he had thought
it best to turn back, and get a bed at the Three Goblets.  If he had only come home, he might
have prevented mischief!  There ensued a few commonplace words on the old man's infirm state,
yet his independent habits, and reluctance to let any servant assist him, or even sleep near
him.  Sam spoke as if in a dream, and was evidently so unwell, that Dr. May thought it charitable
to follow the dictates of his own disgust at breaking bread in that house of horrors, and refuse
offers of breakfast.  He said he must go home, but would return for the inquest, and asked
whether Henry would remain to meet his brother.

'No, no, thank you,' said Henry huskily, as with the driest of throats, and a perceptible shudder,
he turned to go away; the Doctor pausing to caress little Mab, and say, 'I had better take
home this poor little thing.  She may come to harm here, and may be a comfort to the sister.'

No objection came from Sam, but Mab herself ran back to her house, and even snarled at the
attempt to detach her from it.  'You are a faithful little beast,' he said, 'and your master
will soon be here to set all straight, so I will leave you for the present;' and therewith
he signed farewell, and breathed more freely as he gained the outer air.

'I'll tell you what, Henry,' he said, as they drove out of the courtyard, 'we'll bring out
Bramshaw to watch the case.  He will see through this horrible mystery, and throw the suspicion
in the right quarter, whatever that may be, depend upon it.'

Henry had thrown himself back in the carriage with averted face, and only answered by a groan.

'Come, don't be so downcast,' said Dr. May; 'it is a frightful affair, no doubt, and Leonard
has chosen a most unlucky moment for this escapade; but he will have a thorough warning against
frolics.'

'Frolics indeed!' said Henry, bitterly.

'Well, I'll be bound that's all he has attempted, and it has got him into a horrid scrape;
and ten to one but the police have got the real ruffians in their hands by this time.'

'I have no hope,' said Henry.

'More shame for you not to feel a certain confidence that He who sees all will show the right.'

'If!' said Henry, breaking off with a sound and look of such intense misery as almost to stagger
the Doctor himself, by reminding him of Leonard's violent temper, and the cause Henry had to
remember his promptness of hand; but that Ethel's pupil, Aubrey's friend, the boy of ingenuous
face, could under any provocation strike helpless old age, or, having struck, could abscond
without calling aid, actuated by terror, not by pity or repentance, was more than Dr. May could
believe, and after brief musing, he broke out in indignant refutation.

'I should have thought so.  I wish I still could believe so' sighed Henry; 'but--' and there
they lapsed into silence, till, as they came near the town, Dr. May offered to set him down
at Bankside.

'No! no, thank you,' he cried in entreaty.  'I cannot see her--Ave.'

'Then come home with me.  You shall see no one, and you will look up when you are not faint
and fasting.  You young men don't stand up against these things like us old stagers.'

As the carriage stopped, several anxious faces were seen on the watch, but the Doctor signed
them back till he had deposited Henry in his study, and then came among them.

Gertrude was the first to speak.  'O, papa, papa, what is it!  Mrs. Pugh has been here to ask,
and Ethel won't let me hear, though Tom and Aubrey know.'

'I took refuge in your order to believe nothing till you came,' said Ethel, with hands tightly
clasped together.

'It is true, then?' asked Tom.

'True that it looks as bad as bad can be,' said the Doctor, sighing heavily, and proceeding
to state the aspect of the case.

'It is a trick--a plot,' cried Aubrey passionately; 'I know it is! He always said he would
run away if they tried to teach him dishonesty; and now they have done this and driven him
away, and laid the blame on him.  Ethel, why don't you say you are sure of it?'

'Leonard would be changed indeed if this were so,' said Ethel, trembling as she stood, and
hardly able to speak articulately.

Aubrey broke out with a furious 'If,' very different from Henry Ward's.

'It would not be the Leonard we knew at Coombe,' said Ethel.  'He might be blind with rage,
but he would never be cowardly.  No. Unless he own it, nothing shall ever make me believe it.'

'Own it!  For shame, Ethel,' cried Aubrey. And even the Doctor exclaimed, 'You are as bad as
poor Henry himself, who has not got soul enough to be capable of trusting his brother.'

'I do trust,' said Ethel, looking up.  'I shall trust his own word,' and she sat down without
speaking, and knitted fast, but her needles clattered.

'And how about that poor girl at Bankside?' said the Doctor.

'I went down there,' said Tom, 'just to caution the servants against bringing in stories. 
She found out I was there, and I had to go in and make the best of it.'

'And what sort of a best?' said the Doctor.

'Why, she knew he used to get out in the morning to bathe, and was persuaded he had been drowned;
so I told her I knew he was alive and well, and she would hear all about it when you came back.
I brought the youngest child away with me, and Gertrude has got her up-stairs; the other would
not come.  Poor thing!  Mary says she is very good and patient; and I must say she was wonderfully
reasonable when I talked to her.'

'Thank you, Tom,' said his father with warmth, 'it was very kind of you.  I wonder if Ave knew
anything of this runaway business; it might be the saving of him!'

'I did,' said Aubrey eagerly; 'at least, I know he said he would not stay if they wanted to
put him up to their dishonest tricks; and he talked of that very window!'

'Yes, you imprudent fellow; and you were telling Mrs. Pugh so, if I hadn't stopped you,' said
Tom.  'You'll be taken up for an accomplice next, if you don't hold your tongue.'

'What did he say?' asked the Doctor, impatiently; and then declared that he must instantly
go to Bankside, as soon as both he and Henry had taken some food; 'for,' he added, 'we are
both too much shaken to deal rationally with her.'

Ethel started up in shame and dismay at having neglected to order anything.  The Doctor was
served in the study alone with Henry, and after the briefest meal, was on his way to Bankside.

He found Averil with the crimson cheek and beseeching eye that he knew so well, as she laid
her trembling hand on his, and mutely looked up like a dumb creature awaiting a blow.

'Yes, my dear,' he said, tenderly, 'your brother needs prayer such as when we watched him last
year, he is in peril of grave suspicion.' And as she stood waiting and watching for further
explanation, he continued, 'My dear, he told you everything.  You do not know of any notion
of his of going away, or going out without leave?'

'Why is Leonard to be always suspected of such things?' cried Averil. 'He never did them!'

'Do you know?' persisted Dr. May.

'But you are mayor!' cried Averil, indignantly, withdrawing her hand. 'You want me to accuse him!'

'My dear, if I were ten times mayor, it would make no difference.  My jurisdiction does not
even cross the river here; and if it did, this is a graver case than I deal with.  I am come,
as his friend, to beg you to help me to account for his unhappy absence in any harmless way.
Were it ever so foolish or wrong, it would be the best news that ever I heard.'

'But--but I can't,' said Averil.  'I never knew he was going out! I know he used to get out
at the passage window to bathe and fish before the house was astir--and--you know he is safe,
Dr. May?'

Dr. May would almost sooner have known that he was at the bottom of the deepest pool in the
river, than where he was.  'He is safe, my poor child.  He is well, and I trust he will be
able to prove his innocence; but he must so account for his absence as to clear himself.  Averil,
there is a charge against him--of being concerned in your uncle's death.'

Averil's eyes dilated, and she breathed short and fast, standing like a statue.  Little Minna,
whom the Doctor had scarcely perceived, standing in a dark corner, sprang forward, exclaiming,
'O, Ave, don't be afraid! Nobody can hurt him for what he did not do!'

The words roused Averil, and starting forward, she cried, 'Dr. May, Dr. May, you will save
him!  He is fatherless and motherless, and his brother has always been harsh to him; but you
will not forsake him; you said you would be a father to us!  Oh, save Leonard!'

'My dear, as I would try to save my own son, I will do my utmost for him; but little or nothing
depends on me or on any man.  By truth and justice he must stand or fall; and you must depend
on the Father of the fatherless, who seeth the truth! as this dear child tells you,' with his
hand on Minna's head, 'he cannot be really injured while he is innocent.'

Awed into calm, Averil let him seat her beside him, and put her in possession of the main facts
of the case, Minna standing by him, her hand in his, evidently understanding and feeling all
that passed.

Neither could throw light on anything.  Leonard had been less communicative to them than to
Aubrey, and had kept his resolution of uncomplainingly drinking the brewst he had brewed for
himself.  All Averil could tell was, that her uncle had once spoken to Henry in commendation
of his steadiness and trustworthiness, though at the same time abusing him for airs and puppyism.

'Henry would tell you.  Where is Henry?' she added.

'In my study.  He could not bear to bring you these tidings.  You must be ready to comfort
him, Ave.'

'Don't let him come,' she cried.  'He never was kind to Leonard.  He drove him there.  I shall
always feel that it was his doing.'

'Averil,' said Dr. May gravely, 'do you forget how much that increases his suffering?  Nothing
but mutual charity can help you through this fiery trial.  Do not let anger and recrimination
take from you the last shreds of comfort, and poison your prayers. Promise me to be kind to
Henry, for indeed he needs it.'

'O, Dr. May,' said Minna, looking up with her eyes full of tears, 'indeed I will.  I was cross
to Henry because he was cross to Leonard, but I won't be so any more.'

Ave drooped her head, as if it were almost impossible to her to speak.

Dr. May patted Minna's dark head caressingly, and said to the elder sister, 'I will not urge
you more.  Perhaps you may have Leonard back, and then joy will open your hearts; or if not,
my poor Ave, the sight of Henry will do more than my words.'

Mary looked greatly grieved, but said nothing, only following her father to take his last words
and directions.  'Keep her as quiet as you can.  Do not worry her, but get out this root of
bitterness if you can.  Poor, poor things!'

'That little Minna is a dear child!' said Mary.  'She is grown so much older than Ella, or
than she was last year.  She seems to understand and feel like a grown-up person.  I do think
she may soften poor Ave more than I can; but, papa, there is excuse.  Mr. Ward must have made
them more miserable than we guessed.'

'The more reason she must forgive him.  O, Mary, I fear a grievous lesson is coming to them;
but I must do all I can.  Good-bye, my dear; do the best you can for them;' and he set forth
again with a bleeding heart.

At the attorney's office, he found the principal from home, but the partner, Edward Anderson,
on the qui vive for a summons to attend on behalf of his fellow-townsman, and confident that
however bad were the present aspect of affairs, his professional eye would instantly find a clue.

Aubrey was in an agony of excitement, but unable to endure the notion of approaching the scene
of action; and his half-choked surly 'Don't' was sufficient to deter his brother Thomas, who
had never shown himself so kind, considerate, and free from sneer or assumption.  In 'hours
of ease' he might seem selfish and exacting, but a crisis evoked the latent good in him, and
drew him out of himself.

Nor would Henry return to Bankside.  After many vacillations, the moment for starting found
him in a fit of despair about the family disgrace, only able to beg that 'the unhappy boy'
should be assured that no expense should be spared in his defence; or else, that if he were
cleared and returned home, his welcome should be most joyful. But there Henry broke off, groaned,
said they should never look up again, and must leave the place.

Except for Averil's own sake, Dr. May would almost have regretted his exhortations in favour
of her eldest brother.

In due time the Doctor arrived at the mill, where the inquest was to take place, as the public-house
was small, and inconveniently distant; and there was ample accommodation in the large rambling
building.  So crowded was the court-yard, that the Doctor did not easily make his way to the
steps of the hall door; but there, after one brief question to the policeman in charge, he
waited, though several times invited in.

Before long, all eyes turned one way, as a closed fly, with a policeman on the box, drove in
at the gateway, stopped, and between the two men on guard appeared a tall young figure.

The Doctor's first glance showed him a flushed and weary set of features, shocked and appalled;
but the eyes, looking straight up in their anxiety, encountered his with an earnest grateful
appeal for sympathy, answered at once by a step forward with outstretched hand. The grip of
the fingers was heated, agitated, convulsive, but not tremulous; and there was feeling, not
fear, in the low husky voice that said, 'Thank you. Is Henry here?'

'No, he is too--too much overcome; but he hopes to see you at home to-night; and here is Edward
Anderson, whom he has sent to watch the proceedings for you.'

'Thank you,' said Leonard, acknowledging Edward's greeting.  'As far as I am concerned, I can
explain all in a minute; but my poor uncle--I little thought--'

There was no opportunity for further speech in private, for the coroner had already arrived,
and the inquiry had been only deferred until Leonard should have come.  The jury had been viewing
the body, and the proceedings were to take place in the large low dining-room, where the southern
windows poured in a flood of light on the faces of the persons crowded together, and the reflections
from the rippling water danced on the ceiling.  Dr. May had a chair given him near the coroner,
and keenly watched the two nephews--one seated next to him, the other at some distance, nearly
opposite.  Both young men looked haggard, shocked, and oppressed: the eye of Axworthy was unceasingly
fixed on an inkstand upon the table, and never lifted, his expression never varied; and Leonard's
glance flashed inquiringly from one speaker to another, and his countenance altered with every
phase of the evidence.

The first witness was Anne Ellis, the young maid-servant, who told of her coming down at ten
minutes after five that morning, the 6th of July, and on going in to clean the rooms, finding
her master sunk forward on the table.  Supposing him to have had a fit, she had run to the
window and screamed for help, when Master Hardy, the foreman, and Mrs. Giles, the housekeeper,
had come in.

James Hardy deposed to having heard the girl's cry while he was unlocking the mill door.  Coming
in by the low sash-window, which stood open, he had gone up to his master, and had seen the
wound on the head, and found the body quite cold, Mrs. Giles coming in, they had carried it
to the bed in the next room; and he had gone to call the young gentlemen, but neither was in
his room.  He knew that it had been left uncertain whether Mr. Samuel would return to sleep
at home between the two days of the county races, but he did not expect Mr. Ward to be out;
and had then observed that his bed had not been slept in, and that the passage window outside
his room was partly open.  He had then thought it best to go into Stoneborough to inform the
family.

Rebecca Giles, the housekeeper, an elderly woman, crying violently, repeated the evidence as
to the discovery of the body.  The last time she had seen her master alive, was when she had
carried in his supper at nine o'clock, when he had desired her to send Mr. Ward to him; and
had seemed much vexed to hear that the young man had not returned from rifle practice, little
thinking, poor old gentleman!--but here the housekeeper was recalled to her subject.  The window
was then open, as it was a sultry night, but the blind down.  Her master was a good deal crippled
by gout, and could not at that time move actively nor write, but could dress himself, and close
a window.  He disliked being assisted; and the servants were not in the habit of seeing him
from the time his supper was brought in till breakfast next morning. She had seen Mr. Ward
come home at twenty minutes or half after nine, in uniform, carrying his rifle; she had given
the message, and he had gone into the sitting-room without putting down the rifle.  She believed
it to be the one on the table, but could not say so on oath; he never let any one touch it;
and she never looked at such horrid murderous things. And some remarks highly adverse to the
volunteer movement were cut short.

William Andrews, groom, had been called by Anne Ellis, had seen the wound, and the blood on
the desk, and had gone to fetch a surgeon and the police from Whitford.  On his return, saw
the rifle leaning against the shutter; believed it to be Mr. Ward's rifle.

Charles Rankin, surgeon, had been called in to see Mr. Axworthy, and arrived at seven o'clock
A. M.  Found him dead, from a fracture of the skull over the left temple, he should imagine,
from a blow from a heavy blunt instrument, such as the stock of a gun.  Death must have been
instantaneous, and had probably taken place seven or eight hours before he was called in. 
The marks upon the rifle before him were probably blood; but he could not say so upon oath,
till he had subjected them to microscopic examination.  The hair was human, and corresponded
with that of the deceased.

Samuel Axworthy had slept at the Three Goblets, in consequence of finding himself too late
for admission at home.  He had been wakened at half-past five, and found all as had been stated
by the previous witnesses; and he corroborated the housekeeper's account of his uncle's habits.
The rifle he believed to belong to his cousin, Leonard Ward. He could not account for Leonard
Ward's absence on that morning.  No permission, as far as he was aware, had been given him
to leave home; and he had never known his uncle give him any commission at that hour.

The different policemen gave their narrations of the state of things--the open window, the
position of the boat, &c.  And the ticket-clerk at the small Blewer Station stated that at
about 12.15 at night, Mr. Ward had walked in without baggage, and asked for a second-class
ticket to London.

Leonard here interposed an inquiry whether he had not said a day ticket, and the clerk recollected
that he had done so, and had spoken of returning by four o'clock; but the train, being reckoned
as belonging to the previous day, no return tickets were issued for it, and he had therefore
taken an ordinary one, and started by the mail train.

The London policeman, who had come down with Leonard, stated that, in consequence of a telegraphic
message, he had been at the Paddington Station at 6.30 that morning; had seen a young gentleman
answering to the description sent to him, asked if his name were Leonard Ward, and receiving
a reply in the affirmative, had informed him of the charge, and taken him into custody.  The
bag that he placed on the table he had found on the young man's person.

Every one was startled at this unexpected corroboration of the suspicion.  It was a heavy-looking
bag, of reddish canvas, marked with a black circle, containing the letters F. A. Gold; the
neck tied with a string; the contents were sovereigns, and a note or two.

Dr. May looked piteously, despairingly, at Leonard; but the brow was still open and unclouded,
the eye glanced back reassurance and confidence.

The policeman added that he had cautioned the young man to take care what he said, but that
he had declared at once that his uncle had sent him to lodge the sum in Drummond's Bank, and
that he would show a receipt for it on his return.

The coroner then proceeded to examine Leonard, but still as a witness. Edward Anderson spoke
to him in an undertone, advising him to be cautious, and not commit himself, but Leonard, rather
impatiently thanking him, shook him off, and spoke with freedom and openness.

'I have nothing to keep back,' he said.  'Of course I know nothing of this frightful murder,
nor what villain could have got hold of the rifle, which, I am sorry to say, is really mine.
Last evening I used it at drill and practice on Blewer Heath, and came home when it grew dusk,
getting in at about half-past nine.  I was then told by Mrs. Giles that my uncle wished to
speak to me, and was displeased at my staying out so late.  I went into his room as I was,
and put my rifle down in a corner by the window, when he desired me to sit down and listen
to him.  He then told me that he wished to send me to town by the mail train, to take some
cash to Drummond's Bank, and to return by to-day's four o'clock train.  He said he had reasons
for wishing no one to be aware of his opening an account there, and he undertook to explain
my absence.  He took the sum from the private drawer of his desk, and made me count it before
him, £124 12s. in sovereigns and bank-notes.  The odd money he gave me for my expenses, the
rest I put in the bag that I fetched out of the office.  He could not hold a pen, and could
therefore give me no letter to Messrs. Drummond, but he made me write a receipt for the amount
in his memorandum book.  I wished him good night, and left him still sitting in his easy-chair,
with the window open and the blind down. I found that I had forgotten my rifle, but I did not
go back for it, because he disliked the disturbance of opening and shutting doors.  While I
was changing my dress, I saw from the window that some one was still about in the court, and
knowing that my uncle wished me to avoid notice, I thought it best to let myself out by the
passage window, as I had sometimes done in early mornings to bathe or fish, and go across the
fields to Blewer Station.  I got down into the garden, crossed in the punt, and went slowly
by Barnard's hatch; I believe I stopped a good many times, as it was too soon, and a beautiful
moonlight night, but I came to Blewer soon after twelve, and took my ticket.  At Paddington
I met this terrible news.'

As the boy spoke, his bright eyes turned from one listener to another, as though expecting
to read satisfaction on their faces; but as doubt and disbelief clouded all, his looks became
almost constantly directed to Dr. May, and his voice unconsciously passed from a sound of justification
to one of pleading.  When he ceased, he glanced round as if feeling his innocence established.

'You gave a receipt, Mr. Ward,' said the coroner.  'Will you tell us where it is likely to be?'

'It must be either on or in my uncle's desk, or in his pocket.  Will some one look for it?
I wrote it in his memorandum book--a curious old black shagreen book, with a silver clasp.
I left it open on the desk to dry.'

A policeman went to search for it; and the coroner asked what the entry had been.

'July 5th, 1860.  Received, £120.  L. A. Ward,'--was the answer. 'You will find it about the
middle of the book, or rather past it.'

'At what time did this take place?'

'It must have been towards ten.  I cannot tell exactly, but it was later than half-past nine
when I came in, and he was a good while bringing out the money.'

The policeman returned, saying he could not find the book; and Leonard begging to show where
he had left it, the coroner and jury accompanied him to the room.  At the sight of the red
stain on the desk, a shuddering came over the boy, and a whiteness on his heated brow, nor
could he at once recover himself so as to proceed with the search, which was still in vain;
though with a voice lowered by the sickness of horror, he pointed out the place where he had
laid it, and the pen he had used; and desk, table, drawer, and the dead man's dress were carefully
examined.

'You must know it, Sam,' said Leonard.  'Don't you remember his putting in the cheque--old
Bilson's cheque for his year's rent--twenty-five pounds?  I brought it in, and he put it away
one day last week.  You were sitting there.'

Sam stammered something of 'Yes, he did recollect something of it.'

Inquiries were made of the other persons concerned with Mr. Axworthy. Hardy thought his master
used such a book, but had never seen it near; Mrs. Giles altogether disbelieved its existence;
and Sam could not be positive--his uncle never allowed any one to touch his private memorandums.

As, with deepened anxiety, Dr. May returned to the dining-room, he caught a glimpse of Henry
Ward's desponding face, but received a sign not to disclose his presence.  Edward Anderson
wrote, and considered; and the coroner, looking at his notes again, recurred to Leonard's statement
that he had seen some one in the yard.

'I thought it was one of the men waiting to take my cousin Axworthy's horse.  I did not know
whether he had ridden or gone by train; and I supposed that some one would be looking out for him.'

Questions were asked whether any of the servants had been in the yard, but it was denied by
all; and on a more particular description of the person being demanded, Leonard replied that
the figure had been in the dark shade of the stables, and that he only knew that it was a young
man--whether a stranger or not he did not know; he supposed now that it must have been the--the
murderer, but at the time he had thought it one of the stable-men; and as his uncle had particularly
wished that his journey should be a secret, the sight had only made him hasten to put out his
light, and depart unseen.  It was most unfortunate that he had done so.

Others ironically whispered, 'Most unfortunate.'

The coroner asked Mr. Anderson whether he had anything to ask or observe, and on his reply
in the negative, proceeded to sum up the evidence for the consideration of the jury.

It seemed as if it were only here that Leonard perceived the real gist of the evidence.  His
brow grew hotter, his eyes indignant, his hands clenched, as if he with difficulty restrained
himself from breaking in on the coroner's speech; and when at length the question was put to
the jury, he stood, the colour fading from his cheek, his eyes set and glassy, his lip fallen,
the dew breaking out on his brow, every limb as it were petrified by the shock of what was
thus first fully revealed to him.

So he stood, while the jury deliberated in low gruff sorrowful murmurs, and after a few minutes,
turned round to announce with much sadness that they could do no otherwise than return a verdict
of wilful murder against Leonard Ward.

'Mr. Leonard Ward,' said the coroner, a gentleman who had well known his father, and who spoke
with scarcely concealed emotion, 'it becomes my painful duty to commit you to Whitford Gaol
for trial at the next assizes.'

Dr. May eagerly offered bail, rather as the readiest form of kindness than in the hope of its
acceptance, and it was of course refused; but he made his way to the prisoner, and wrung his
chill hand with all his might.  The pressure seemed to waken the poor lad from his frozen rigidity;
the warmth came flowing back into his fingers as his friend held them; he raised his head,
shut and re-opened his eyes, and pushed back his hair, as though trying to shake himself loose
from a too horrible dream.  His face softened and quivered as he met the Doctor's kind eyes;
but bracing himself again, he looked up, answered the coroner's question--that his Christian
name was Leonard Axworthy, his age within a few weeks of eighteen; and asked permission to
fetch what he should want from his room.

The policeman, in whose charge he was, consented both to this, and to Dr. May being there alone
with him for a short time.

Then it was that the boy relaxed the strain on his features, and said in a low and strangled
voice, 'O, Dr. May, if you had only let me die with them last year!'

'It was not I who saved you.  He who sent that ordeal, will bring you through--this,' said
Dr. May, with a great sob in his throat that belied his words of cheer.

'I thank Him at least for having taken her,' said Leonard, resting his head on the mantel-shelf
beneath his mother's picture, while his little dog sat at his foot, looking up at him, cowed
and wistful.

Dr. May strove for words of comfort, but broke utterly down; and could only cover his face
with his hands, and struggle with his emotion, unable to utter a word.

Yet perhaps none would have been so comforting as his genuine sympathy, although it was in
a voice of extreme distress that Leonard exclaimed, 'Dr. May, Dr. May, pray don't! you ought
not to grieve for me!'

'I'm a fool,' said Dr. May, after some space, fighting hard with himself.  'Nonsense! we shall
see you out of this!  We have only to keep up a good heart, and we shall see it explained.'

'I don't know; I can't understand,' said Leonard, passing his hand over his weary forehead.
'Why could they not believe when I told them just how it was?'

At that moment the policeman opened the door, saying, 'Here, sir;' and Henry hurried in, pale
and breathless, not looking in his brother's face, as he spoke fast and low.

'Ned Anderson says there's nothing at all to be made of this defence of yours; it is of no
use to try it.  The only thing is to own that he found fault with you, and in one of your rages--you
know--'

'You too, Henry!' said Leonard, in dejected reproach.

'Why--why, it is impossible it could have been otherwise--open window, absconding, and all.
We all know you never meant it; but your story won't stand; and the only chance, Anderson says,
is to go in for manslaughter.  If you could only tell anything that would give him a clue to
pick up evidence while the people are on the spot.'

Leonard's face was convulsed for a moment while his brother was speaking; but he recovered
calmness of voice, as he mournfully answered, 'I have no right to wonder at your suspicion of me.'

Henry for the first time really looked at him, and instinctively faltered, 'I beg your pardon.'

'Indeed,' said Leonard, with the same subdued manner, 'I cannot believe that any provocation
could make me strike a person like that old man; and here there was none at all.  Except that
he was vexed at first at my being late, he had never been so near kindness.'

'Then is this extraordinary story the truth?'

'Why should I not tell the truth?' was the answer, too mournful for indignation.

Henry again cast down his eyes, Leonard moved about making preparations, Dr. May leant against
the wall--all too much oppressed for speech; till, as Leonard stooped, poor little Mab, thrusting
her black head into his hand, drew from him the words, 'My doggie, what is to become of you?'

A sort of hoarse explosion of 'Ave' from Henry was simultaneous with the Doctor's 'I tried
to get her home with me in the morning, but she waited your orders.'

'Miss May would not have her now.  After all, prussic acid would be the truest mercy' said
Leonard, holding the little creature up to his face, and laying his cheek against her silken
coat with almost passionate affection.

'Not while there are those who trust your word, Leonard; as Ethel said this morning.'

He raised the face which he had hidden against the dog, and looked earnestly at the Doctor
as if hardly venturing to understand him; then a ray of real gladness and comfort darted into
his eyes, which so enlivened Dr. May, that he was able to say cheerfully, 'We will take good
care of her till you come for her.'

'Then, Henry,' said Leonard, 'it is not unkindness, nor that I remember things, but indeed
I think it will be better for you all, since Dr. May is so--so--' The word kind was so inadequate,
that it stuck in his throat.  'Take this to Ave,' putting his mother's likeness in his hand,
'and tell her I will write,'

'Poor Ave!'

Leonard imploringly shook his head; the mention of his sister shook him more than he could
bear; and he asked the time.

'Nearly six.'

'Only six!  What an endless day!  There, I am ready.  There is no use in delaying.  I suppose
I must show what I am taking with me.'

'Wait,' said his brother.  'Cannot you say anything to put us on the track of the man in the yard?'

'I did not see him plain.'

'You've no notion?' said Henry, with a movement of annoyance.

'No.  I only looked for a moment; for I was much more anxious to get off quietly, than to make
any one out.  If I had only waited ten minutes, it might have been the saving of his life,
but my commission was so like fun, and so important too, that I thought of nothing else. Can
it be not twenty-four hours ago?'

'And why don't you explain why he sent you?'

'I cannot say it so certainly as to be of the slightest use,' said Leonard.

'He never expressed it either; and I have no right to talk of my suspicions.'

'Eh! was it to put it out of Sam's way?'

'So I suppose.  Sam used to get all he chose out of the poor old man; and I believe he thought
this the only chance of keeping anything for himself, but he never told me so.  Stay!  Bilson's
cheque might be tracked.  I took it myself, and gave the receipt; you will find it entered
in the books--paid on either the twenty-third or fourth.'

'Then there's something to do, at any rate,' cried Henry, invigorated. 'Anderson shall hunt
out the balance and Sam's draughts on it.  I'll spare no expense, Leonard, if it is to my last
farthing; and you shall have the best counsel that can be retained.'

Leonard signed thanks with some heartiness, and was going to the door, when Henry detained
him.  'Tell me, Leonard, have you no suspicion?'

'It must have been the person I saw in the court, and, like a fool, did not watch.  The window
was open, and he could have easily got in and come out.  Can't they see that if it had been
me, I should have made off at once that way?'

'If you could only tell what the fellow was like!'

'I told you he was in the dark,' said Leonard, and without giving time for more, he called
in the man outside, showed the clothes and, books he had selected, put them into his bag, and
declared himself ready, giving his hand to the Doctor, who drew him near and kissed his brow,
as if he had been Harry setting forth on a voyage.

'Good-bye, my dear fellow; God bless you; I'll soon come to see you.'

'And I,' said Henry, 'will bring Bramshaw to see what is to be done.'

Leonard wrung his brother's hand, murmuring something of love to his sisters; then put Mab
into Dr. May's arms, with injunctions that the little creature understood and obeyed, for though
trembling and whining under her breath, she was not resisting.

It might be to shorten her distress as well as his own that Leonard passed quickly down-stairs,
and entered the carriage that was to take him to the county gaol.

CHAPTER XIII

  Tears are not always fruitful; their hot drops
    Sometimes but scorch the cheek and dim the eye;
  Despairing murmurs over blackened hopes,
    Not the meek spirit's calm and chastened cry.
  Oh, better not to weep, than weep amiss!
    For hard it is to learn to weep aright;
  To weep wise tears, the tears that heal and bless,
    The tears which their own bitterness requite.--H. BONAR

To one of the most tender-hearted of human beings had the office of conveying ill tidings been
most often committed, and again Dr. May found himself compelled to precede Henry Ward into
the sister's presence, and to break to her the result of the inquest.

He was no believer in the efficacy of broken news, but he could not refuse when Henry in his
wretchedness entreated not to be the first in the infliction of such agony; so he left the
carriage outside, and walked up to the door; and there stood Averil, with Ethel a few steps
behind her.  His presence was enough revelation.  Had things gone well, he would not have been
the forerunner; and Averil, meaning perhaps to speak, gave a hoarse hysterical shriek, so frightful
as to drive away other anxieties, and summon Henry in from his watch outside.

All day the poor girl had kept up an unnatural strain on her powers, vehemently talking of
other things, and, with burning cheeks and shining eyes, moving incessantly from one employment
to another; now her needle, now her pencil--roaming round the garden gathering flowers, or
playing rattling polkas that half stunned Ethel in her intense listening for tidings.  Ethel,
who had relieved guard and sent Mary home in the afternoon, had vainly striven to make Ave
rest or take food; the attempt had brought on such choking, that she could only desist, and
wait for the crisis.  The attack was worse than any ordinary hysterics, almost amounting to
convulsions; and all that could be done was to prevent her from hurting herself, and try to
believe Dr. May's assurance that there was no real cause for alarm, and that the paroxysms
would exhaust themselves.

In time they were spent, and Ave lay on her bed half torpid, feebly moaning, but with an instinctive
dread of being disturbed.  Henry anxiously watched over her, and Dr. May thought it best to
leave the brother and sister to one another.  Absolute quiet was best for her, and he had skill
and tenderness enough to deal with her, and was evidently somewhat relieved by the necessity
of waiting on her.  It was the best means, perhaps, of uniting them, that they should be thus
left together; and Dr. May would have taken home little pale frightened Minna, who had been
very helpful all the time.

'Oh, please not, Dr. May,' she said, earnestly.  'Indeed I will not be troublesome, and I can
give Henry his tea, and carry Ave's cup. Please, Henry, don't send me:' and she took hold of
his hand, and laid it against her cheek.  He bent down over her, and fondled her; and there
were tears that he could not hide as he tried both to thank Dr. May, and tell her that she
need not leave him.

'No,' said Dr. May; 'it would be cruel to both of you.--Good-bye, little Minna; I never wanted
to carry away a little comforter.'

'I believe you are right, papa,' said Ethel, as she went out with him to the carriage; 'but
I long to stay, it is like doing something for that boy.'

'The best you did for him, poor dear boy! was the saying you trusted his word.  The moment
I told him that, he took comfort and energy.'

Ethel's lips moved into a strange half smile, and she took Mab on her lap, and fondled her.
'Yes,' she said, 'I believe I stand for a good deal in his imagination.  I was afraid he would
have been wrecked upon that horrid place; but, after all, this may be the saving of him.'

'Ah! if that story of his would only be more vraisemblable.'

There was only time briefly to narrate it before coming home, where the first person they met
was Aubrey, exceeding pale, and in great distress.  'Papa, I must tell you,' he said, drawing
him into the study.  'I have done terrible harm, I am afraid.'  And he explained, that in the
morning, when Mrs. Pugh had come down full of inquiries and conjectures, and had spoken of
the possibility of Leonard's having been drowned while bathing, he had unguardedly answered
that it could be no such thing; Leonard had always meant to run away, and by that very window,
if the Axworthys grew too bad.

Prudent Tom had silenced him at the time, but had since found that it had got abroad that the
evasion had long been meditated with Aubrey's privity, and had been asked by one of the constabulary
force if his brother would not be an important witness.  Tom had replied that he knew nothing
about it; but Aubrey was in great misery, furious with Mrs. Pugh, and only wanting his father
to set off at once to assure them it was all nonsense.

'No, Aubrey, they neither would, nor ought to, take my word.'

'Just hear, papa, and you would know the chaff it was.'

'I cannot hear, Aubrey.  If we were to discuss it, we might give it an unconscious colouring.
You must calm your mind, and exactly recall what passed; but do not talk about it to me or
to any one else.  You must do nothing to impair the power of perfect truth and accuracy, which
is a thing to be prayed for.  If any one--even the lawyer who may have to get up the case against
him--asks you about it, you must refuse to answer till the trial; and then--why, the issue
is in the hands of Him that judgeth righteously.'

'I shall never remember nor speak with his eyes on me, seeing me betray him!'

'You will be no worse off than I, my boy, for I see I am in for identifying Hector's rifle;
the Mill people can't swear to it, and my doing it will save his brother something.'

'No, it is not like me.  O! I wish I had stayed at Eton, even if I had died of it!  Tom says
it all comes of living with women that I can't keep my mouth shut; and Leonard will be so hurt
that I--'

'Nay, any tolerable counsel will make a capital defence out of the mere fact of his rodomontading.
What, is that no comfort to you?'

'What! to be the means of making a fool of him before all the court--seeing him hear our talk
by the river-side sifted by those horrid lawyers?'

The Doctor looked even graver, and his eye fixed as on a thought far away, as the boy's grief
brought to his mind the Great Assize, when all that is spoken in the ear shall indeed be proclaimed
on the house-tops.

There was something almost childish in this despair of Aubrey, for he had not become alarmed
for the result of the trial.  His misery was chiefly shame at his supposed treason to friendship,
and failure in manly reserve; and he could not hold up his head all the evening, but silently
devoted himself to Mab, endeavouring to make her at home, and meeting with tolerable success.

Tom was no less devoted to Ella Ward.  It was he who had brought her home, and he considered
her therefore as his charge.  It was curious to see the difference that a year had made between
her and Minna. They had the last summer been like one child, and had taken the stroke that
had orphaned them in the same childish manner; but whether the year from eight to nine had
been of especial growth to Minna, or whether there had been a stimulus in her constant association
with Averil, the present sorrow fell on her as on one able to enter into it, think and feel,
and assume her sweet mission of comfort; whilst Ella, though neither hard nor insensible, was
still child enough to close her mind to what she dreaded, and flee willingly from the pain
and tedium of affliction.  She had willingly accepted 'Mr. Tom's' invitation, and as willingly
responded to his attentions.  Gertrude did not like people in the 'little girl' stage, and
the elder sisters had their hands and hearts full, and could only care for her in essentials;
but Tom undertook her amusement, treated her to an exhibition of his microscope, and played
at French billiards with her the rest of the evening, till she was carried off to bed in Mary's
room, when he pronounced her a very intelligent child.

'I think her a very unfeeling little thing,' said Gertrude.  'Very unbecoming behaviour under
the circumstances.'

'What would you think becoming behaviour?' asked Tom.

'I won't encourage it,' returned Daisy, with dignified decision, that gave her father his first
approach to a laugh on that day; but nobody was in spirits to desire Miss Daisy to define from
what her important sanction was withdrawn.

Mary gave up her Sunday-school class to see how Averil was, and found Henry much perturbed.
He had seen her fast asleep at night, and in the morning Minna had carried up her breakfast,
and he was about to follow it, as soon as his own was finished, when he found that she had
slipped out of the house, leaving a message that she was gone to practise on the harmonium.

He was of the mind that none of the family could or ought to be seen at church; and though
Mary could not agree with him, she willingly consented to go to the chapel and try what she
could do with his sister.  She met Mrs. Ledwich on the way, coming to inquire and see whether
she or dear Matilda could do anything for the 'sweet sufferer.' Even Mary could not help thinking
that this was not the epithet most befitting poor Ave; and perhaps Mrs. Ledwich's companionship
made her the less regret that Ave had locked herself in, so that there was no making her hear,
though the solemn chants, played with great fervour, reached them as they waited in the porch.
They had their own seats in the Minster, and therefore could not wait till the sexton should
come to open the church.

There was no time for another visit till after the second service, and then Dr. May and Mary,
going to Bankside, found that instead of returning home, Ave had again locked herself up between
the services, and that Minna, who had ventured on a mission of recall, had come home crying
heartily both at the dreary disappointment of knocking in vain, and at the grand mournful sounds
of funeral marches that had fallen on her ear.  Every one who had been at the chapel that day
was speaking of the wonderful music, the force and the melody of the voluntary at the dismissal
of the congregation; no one had believed that such power resided in the harmonium.  Mr. Scudamour
had spoken to Miss Ward most kindly both before and after evening service, but his attempt
to take her home had been unavailing; she had answered that she was going presently, and he
was obliged to leave her.

Evening was coming on, and she had not come, so the other keys were fetched from the sexton's,
and Dr. May and his daughter set off to storm her fortress.  Like Minna, the Doctor was almost
overpowered by the wonderful plaintive sweetness of the notes that were floating through the
atmosphere, like a wailing voice of supplication.  They had almost unnerved him, as he waited
while Mary unlocked the door.

The sound of its opening hushed the music; Averil turned her head, and recognizing them, came
to them, very pale, and with sunken eyes. 'You are coming home, dear Ave,' said Mary; and she
made no resistance or objection, only saying, 'Yes.  It has been so nice here!'

'You must come now, though,' said the Doctor.  'Your brother is very much grieved at your leaving
him.'

'I did not mean to be unkind to him,' said Averil, in a low subdued voice; 'he was very good
to me last night.  Only--this is peace--this,' pointing to her instrument, 'is such a soothing
friend.  And surely this is the place to wait in!'

'The place to wait in indeed, my poor child, if you are not increasing the distress of others
by staying here.  Besides, you must not exhaust yourself, or how are you to go and cheer Leonard!'

'Oh! there is no fear but that I shall go to-morrow,' said Averil; 'I mean to do it!' the last
words being spoken in a resolute tone, unlike the weariness of her former replies.

And with this purpose before her, she consented to be taken back by Mary to rest on the sofa,
and even to try to eat and drink.  Her brother and sister hung over her, and waited on her
with a tender assiduous attention that showed how they had missed her all day; and she received
their kindness gratefully, as far as her broken wearied state permitted.

Several inquiries had come throughout the day from the neighbours; and while Mary was still
with Ave, a message was brought in to ask whether Miss Ward would like to see Mrs. Pugh.

'Oh no, no, thank her, but indeed I cannot,' said Averil, shivering uncontrollably as she lay.

Mary felt herself blushing, in the wonder what would be kindest to do, and her dread of seeing
Henry's face.  She was sure that he too shrank, and she ventured to ask, 'Shall I go and speak
to her?'

'Oh, do, do,' said Averil, shuddering with eagerness.  'Thank you, Miss Mary,' said Henry slowly.
'She is most kind--but--under the circumstances--'

Mary went, finding that he only hesitated.  She had little opportunity for saying anything;
Mrs. Pugh was full of interest and eagerness, and poured out her sympathy and perfect understanding
of dear Averil's feelings; and in the midst Henry came out of the room, with a stronger version
of their gratitude, but in terrible confusion.  Mary would fain have retreated, but could not,
and was witness to the lady's urgent entreaties to take Minna home, and Henry's thankfulness;
but he feared--and retreated to ask the opinion of his sisters, while Mrs. Pugh told Mary that
it was so very bad for the poor child to remain, and begged to have Ella if she were a moment's
inconvenience to the May family.

Henry came back with repeated thanks, but Minna could not bear to leave home; and in fact,
he owned, with a half smile that gave sweetness to his face, she was too great a comfort to
be parted with. So Mrs. Pugh departed, with doubled and trebled offers of service, and entreaties
to be sent for at any hour of the day or night when she could be of use to Averil.

Mary could not but be pleased with her, officious as she was.  It looked as if she had more
genuine feeling for Henry than had been suspected, and the kindness was certain, though some
of it might be the busy activity of a not very delicate nature, eager for the importance conferred
by intimacy with the subjects of a great calamity.  Probably she would have been gratified
by the eclat of being the beloved of the brother of the youth whose name was in every mouth,
and her real goodness and benevolent heart would have committed her affections and interest
beyond recall to the Ward family, had Averil leant upon her, or had Henry exerted himself to
take advantage of her advances.

But Henry's attachment had probably not been love, for it seemed utterly crushed out of him
by his shame and despair.  Everything connected with his past life was hateful to him; he declared
that he could never show his face at Stoneborough again, let the result be what it might--that
he could never visit another patient, and that he should change his name and leave the country,
beginning on that very Sunday afternoon to write a letter to his principal rival to negotiate
the sale of his practice.

In fact, his first impression had returned on him, and though he never disclaimed belief in
Leonard's statement, the entire failure of all confirmation convinced him that the blow had
been struck by his brother in sudden anger, and that, defend him as he might and would, the
stain was on his house, and the guilt would be brought home.

Resolved, however, to do his utmost, he went with Mr. Bramshaw for a consultation with Leonard
on the Monday.  Averil could not go.  She rose and dressed, and remained resolute till nearly
the last minute, when her feverish faint giddiness overpowered her, and she was forced to submit
to lie on the sofa, under Minna's care; and there she lay, restless and wretched, till wise
little Minna sent a message up to the High Street, which brought down Mary and Dr. Spencer.
They found her in a state of nervous fever, that sentenced her to her bed, where Mary deposited
her and watched over her, till her brother's return, more desponding than ever.

Dr. May, with all Henry's patients on his hands as well as his own, had been forced to devote
this entire day to his profession; but on the next, leaving Henry to watch over Averil, who
continued very feeble and feverish, he went to Whitford, almost infected by Henry's forebodings
and Mr. Bramshaw's misgivings.  'It is a bad case,' the attorney had said to him, confidentially.
'But that there is always a great reluctance to convict upon circumstantial evidence, I should
have very little hope, that story of his is so utterly impracticable; and yet he looks so innocent
and earnest all the time, and sticks to it so consistently, that I don't know what to make
of it.  I can't do anything with him, nor can his brother either; but perhaps you might make
him understand that we could bring him clear off for manslaughter--youth, and character and
all.  I should not doubt of a verdict for a moment!  It is awkward about the money, but the
alarm would be considered in the sentence.'

'You don't attend to his account of the person he saw in the court-yard?'

'The less said about that the better,' returned Mr. Bramshaw.  'It would only go for an awkward
attempt to shift off the suspicion, unless he would give any description; and that he can't,
or won't do. Or even if he did, the case would be all the stronger against his story--setting
off, and leaving a stranger to maraud about the place. No, Dr. May; the only thing for it is
to persuade the lad to own to having struck the old man in a passion; every one knows old Axworthy
could be intolerably abusive, and the boy always was passionate. Don't you remember his flying
out at Mr. Rivers's, the night of the party, and that affair which was the means of his going
to the mill at all?  I don't mind saying so to you in confidence, because I know you won't
repeat it, and I see his brother thinks so too; but nothing is likely to turn out so well for
him as that line of defence; as things stand now, the present one is good for nothing.'

Dr. May was almost as much grieved at the notion of the youth's persistence in denying such
a crime, as at the danger in which it involved him, and felt that if he were to be brought
to confession, it should be from repentance, not expediency.

In this mood he drove to Whitford Gaol, made application at the gates, and was conducted up
the stairs to the cell.

The three days of nearly entire solitude and of awful expectation had told like double the
number of years; and there was a stamp of grave earnest collectedness on the young brow, and
a calm resolution of aspect and movement, free from all excitement or embarrassment, as Leonard
Ward stood up with a warm grateful greeting, so full of ingenuous reliance, that every doubt
vanished at the same moment.

His first question was for Averil; and Dr. May made the best of her state.  'She slept a little
more last night, and her pulse is lower this morning; but we keep her in bed, half to hinder
her from trying to come here before she is fit.  I believe this ailment is the best thing for
her and Henry both,' added the Doctor, seeing how much pain his words were giving.  'Henry
is a very good nurse; it occupies him, and it is good for her to feel his kindness!  Then Minna
has come out in the prettiest way: she never fails in some sweet little tender word or caress
just when it is wanted.'

Leonard tried to smile, but only succeeded in keeping back a sob; and the Doctor discharged
his memory of the messages of love of which he had been the depositary.  Leonard recovered
his composure during these, and was able to return a smile on hearing of Ella's conquest of
Tom, of their Bible prints on Sunday, and their unwearied French billiards in the week.  Then
he asked after little Mab.

'She is all a dog should be,' said Dr. May.  'Aubrey is her chief friend, except when she is
lying at her ease on Ethel's dress.'

The old test of dog-love perhaps occurred to Leonard, for his lips trembled, and his eyes were
dewy, even while they beamed with gladness.

'She is a great comfort to Aubrey,' the Doctor added.  'I must beg you to send that poor fellow
your forgiveness, for he is exceedingly unhappy about something he repeated in the first unguarded
moment.'

'Mr. Bramshaw told me,' said Leonard, with brow contracted.

'I cannot believe,' said Dr. May, 'that it can do you any real harm. I do not think the prosecution
ought to take notice of it; but if they do, it will be easy to sift it, and make it tell rather
in your favour.'

'Maybe so,' said Leonard, still coldly.

'Then you will cheer him with some kind message?'

'To be sure.  It is the time for me to be forgiving every one,' he answered, with a long tightly-drawn
breath.

Much distressed, the Doctor paused, in uncertainty whether Leonard were actuated by dread of
the disclosure or resentment at the breach of confidence; but ere he spoke, the struggle had
been fought out, and a sweet sad face was turned round to him, with the words, 'Poor old Aubrey!
Tell him not to mind.  There will be worse to be told out than our romancings together, and
he will feel it more than I shall!  Don't let him vex himself.'

'Thank you,' said the father, warmly.  'I call that pardon.'

'Not that there is anything to forgive,' said Leonard, 'only it is odd that one cares for it
more than--No, no, don't tell him that, but that I know it does not signify.  It must not come
between us, if this is to be the end; and it will make no difference.  Nothing can do that
but the finding my receipt.  I see that book night and day before my eyes, with the very blot
that I made in the top of my L.'

'You know they are searching the garden and fields, and advertising a reward, in case of its
having been thrown away when rifled, or found to contain no valuables.'

'Yes!' and he rested on the word as though much lay behind.

'Do you think it contained anything worth keeping?'

'Only by one person.'

'Ha!' said the Doctor, with a start.

Instead of answering, Leonard leant down on the narrow bed on which he was seated, and shut
in his face between his hands.

The Doctor waited, guessed, and grew impatient.  'You don't mean that fellow, Sam?  Do you
think he has it?  I should like to throttle him, as sure as my name's Dick May!' (this in soliloquy
between his teeth). 'Speak up, Leonard, if you have any suspicion.'

The lad lifted himself with grave resolution that gave him dignity. 'Dr. May,' he said, 'I
know that what I say is safe with you, and it seems disrespectful to ask your word and honour
beforehand, but I think it will be better for us both if you will give them not to make use
of what I tell you.  It weighs on me so, that I shall be saying it to the wrong person, unless
I have it out with you.  You promise me?'

'To make no use of it without your consent,' repeated the Doctor, with rising hope, 'but this
is no case for scruples--too much is at stake.'

'You need not tell me that,' Leonard replied, with a shudder; 'but I have no proof.  I have
thought again and again and again, but can find no possible witness.  He was always cautious,
and drink made him savage, but not noisy.'

'Then you believe--'  The silence told the rest.

'If I did not see how easy people find it to believe the same of me on the mere evidence of
circumstances, I should have no doubt,' said Leonard, deliberately.

'Then it was he that you saw in the yard?'

'Remember, all I saw was that a man was there.  I concluded it was Andrews, waiting to take
the horse; and as he is a great hanger-on of Sam, I wished to avoid him, and not keep my candle
alight to attract his attention.  That was the whole reason of my getting out of window, and
starting so soon; as unlucky a thing as I could have done.'

'You are sure it was not Andrews?'

'Now I am.  You see, Sam had sent home his horse from the station, though I did not know it;
and, if you remember, Andrews was shown to have been at his father's long before.  If he had
been the man, he could speak to the time my light was put out.'

'The putting out of your light must have been the signal for the deed to be done.'

'My poor uncle!  Well might he stare round as if he thought the walls would betray him, and
start at every chinking of that unhappy gold in his helpless hands!  If we had only known who
was near--perhaps behind the blinds--' and Leonard gasped.

'But this secrecy, Leonard, I cannot understand it.  Do you mean that the poor old man durst
not do what he would with his own?'

'Just so.  Whenever Sam knew that he had a sum of money, he laid hands on it.  Nothing was
safe from him that Mr. Axworthy had in the Whitford Bank.'

'That can be proved from the accounts?'

'You recollect the little parlour between the office and my uncle's sitting-room?  There I
used to sit in the evening, and to feel, rather than hear, the way Sam used to bully the poor
old man.  Once--a fortnight ago, just after that talk with Aubrey--I knew he had been drinking,
and watched, and came in upon them when there was no bearing it any longer.  I was sworn at
for my pains, and almost kicked out again; but after that Mr. Axworthy made me sit in the room,
as if I were a protection; and I made up my mind to bear it as long as he lived.'

'Surely the servants would bear witness to this state of things?'

'I think not.  Their rooms are too far off for overhearing, and my uncle saw as little of them
as possible.  Mrs. Giles was Sam's nurse, and cares for him more than any other creature; she
would not say a word against him even if she knew anything; and my uncle would never have complained.
He was fond of Sam to the last, proud of his steeple-chases and his cleverness, and desperately
afraid of him; in a sort of bondage, entirely past daring to speak.'

'I know,' said Dr. May, remembering how his own Tom had been fettered and tongue-tied by that
same tyrant in boyhood.  'But he spoke to you?'

'No,' said Leonard.  'After that scene much was implied between us, but nothing mentioned.
I cannot even tell whether he trusted me, or only made me serve as a protector.  I believe
that row was about this money, which he had got together in secret, and that Sam suspected,
and wanted to extort; but it was exactly as I said at the inquest, he gave no reason for sending
me up to town with it.  He knew that I knew why, and so said no more than that it was to be
private.  It was pitiful to see that man, so fierce and bold as they say he once was, trembling
as if doing something by stealth, and the great hard knotty hands so crumpled and shaky, that
he had to leave all to me.  And that they should fancy I could go and hurt him!' said Leonard,
stretching his broad chest and shoulders in conscious strength.

'Yes, considering who it was, I do not wonder that you feel the passion-theory as insulting
as the accusation.'

'I ought not,' said Leonard, reddening.  'Every one knows what my temper can do.  I do not
think that a poor old feeble man like that could have provoked me to be so cowardly, but I
see it is no wonder they think so.  Only they might suppose I would not have been a robber,
and go on lying now, when they take good care to tell me that it is ruinous!'

'It is an intolerable shame that they can look you in the face and imagine it for a moment,'
said the Doctor, with all his native warmth.

'After all,' said Leonard, recalled by his sympathy, 'it is my own fault from beginning to
end that I am in this case.  I see now that it was only God's mercy that prevented my brother's
blood being on me, and it was my unrepenting obstinacy that brought me to the mill; so there
will be no real injustice in my dying, and I expect nothing else.'

'Hush, Leonard, depend upon it, while there is Justice in Heaven, the true criminal cannot
go free,' cried the Doctor, much agitated.

Leonard shook his head.

'Boyish hastiness is not murder,' added the Doctor.

'So I thought.  But it might have been, and I never repented.  I brought all this on myself;
and while I cannot feel guiltless in God's sight, I cannot expect it to turn out well.'

'Turn out well,' repeated the Doctor.  'We want Ethel to tell us that this very repentance
and owning of the sin, is turning out well--better than going on in it.'

'I can see that,' said Leonard.  'I do hope that if--if I can take this patiently, it may show
I am sorry for the real thing--and I may be forgiven.  Oh! I am glad prisoners are not cut
off from church.'

Dr. May pressed his hand in much emotion: and there was a silence before another question--whether
there were nothing that could be of service.

'One chance there is, that Sam might relent enough to put that receipt where it could be found
without implicating him.  He must know what it would do for me.'

'You are convinced that he has it?'

'There must be papers in the book valuable to him; perhaps some that he had rather were not
seen.  Most likely he secured it in the morning. You remember he was there before the police.'

'Ay! ay! ay! the scoundrel!  But, Leonard, what possessed you not to speak out at the inquest,
when we might have searched every soul on the premises?'

'I did not see it then.  I was stunned by the horror of the thing--the room where I had been
so lately, and that blood on my own rifle too. It was all I could do at one time not to faint,
and I had no notion they would not take my explanation; then, when I found it rejected, and
everything closing in on me, I was in a complete maze. It was not till yesterday, when I was
alone again, after having gone over my defence with Mr. Bramshaw, and shown what I could prove,
that I saw exactly how it must have been, as clear as a somnambulist.  I sometimes could fancy
I had seen Sam listening at the window, and have to struggle not to think I knew him under
the stable wall.'

'And you are not such a--such a--so absurd as to sacrifice yourself to any scruple, and let
the earth be cumbered with a rascal who, if he be withholding the receipt, is committing a
second murder!  It is not generosity, it is suicide.'

'It is not generosity,' said the boy, 'for if there were any hope, that would not stop me;
but no one heard nor saw but myself, and I neither recognized him--no, I did not--nor heard
anything definite from my uncle.  Even if I had, no one--no one but you, believes a word I
speak; nay, even my own case shows what probabilities are worth, and that I may be doing him
the same wrong that I am suffering.  I should only bring on myself the shame and disgrace of
accusing another.'

The steady low voice and unboyish language showed him to be speaking from reflection, not impulse.
The only tremulous moment was when he spoke of the one friend who trusted him, and whom his
words were filling with a tumult of hope and alarm, admiration, indignation, and perplexity.

'Well, well,' the Doctor said, almost stammering, 'I am glad you have been open with me.  It
may be a clue.  Can there be any excuse for overhauling his papers?  Or can't we pick a hole
in that alibi of his? Now I recollect, he had it very pat, and unnecessarily prominent.  I'll
find some way of going to work without compromising you.  Yes, you may trust me!  I'll watch,
but say not a word without your leave.'

'Thank you,' said Leonard.  'I am glad it is you--you who would never think a vague hope of
saving me better than disgrace and dishonour.'

'We will save you,' said the Doctor, becoming eager to escape to that favourite counsellor,
the lining of his brougham, which had inspired him with the right theory of many a perplexing
symptom, and he trusted would show him how to defend without betraying Leonard.  'I must go
and see about it.  Is there anything I can do for you--books, or anything?'

No, thank you--except--I suppose there would be no objection to my having a few finer steel
pens.  'And to explain his wants, he took up his Prayer-Book, which his sister had decorated
with several small devotional prints.  Copying these minutely line by line in pen and ink,
was the solace of his prison hours; and though the work was hardly after drawing-masters' rules,
the hand was not untaught, and there was talent and soul enough in the work to strike the Doctor.

'It suits me best,' said Leonard.  'I should go distracted with nothing to do; and I can't
read much--at least, not common books. And my sisters may like to have them.  Will you let
me do one for you?'

The speaking expression of those hazel eyes almost overcame the Doctor, and his answer was
by bending head and grasping hand. Leonard turned to the Collects, and mutely opened at the
print of the Son of Consolation, which he had already outlined, looked up at his friend, and
turned away, only saying, 'Two or three of the sort with elastic nibs; they have them at the
post-office.'

'Yes, I'll take care,' said Dr. May, afraid to trust his self-command any longer.  'Good-bye,
Leonard.  Tom says I adopt every one who gets through a bad enough fever, so what will you
be to me after this second attack?'

The result of the Doctor's consultation with his brougham was his stopping it at Mr. Bramshaw's
door, to ascertain whether the search for the receipt had extended to young Axworthy's papers;
but he found that they had been thoroughly examined, every facility having been given by their
owner, who was his uncle's executor, and residuary legatee, by a will dated five years back,
leaving a thousand pounds to the late Mrs. Ward, and a few other legacies, but the mass of
the property to the nephew.

Sam's 'facilities' not satisfying the Doctor, it was further explained that every endeavour
was being made to discover what other documents were likely to have been kept in the missing
memorandum-book, so as to lead to the detection of any person who might present any such at
a bank; and it was made evident that everything was being done, short of the impracticability
of searching an unaccused man, but he could not but perceive that Mr. Bramshaw's 'ifs' indicated
great doubt of the existence of receipt and of pocket-book.  Throwing out a hint that the time
of Sam's return should be investigated, he learnt that this had been Edward Anderson's first
measure, and that it was clear, from the independent testimony of the ostler at Whitford, the
friend who had driven Sam, and the landlord of the Three Goblets, that there was not more than
time for the return exactly as described at the inquest; and though the horse was swift and
powerful, and might probably have been driven at drunken speed, this was too entirely conjectural
for anything to be founded on it. Nor had the cheque by Bilson on the Whitford Bank come in.

'Something must assuredly happen to exonerate the guiltless, it would be profane to doubt,'
said Dr. May continually to himself and to the Wards; but Leonard's secret was a painful burthen
that he could scarcely have borne without sharing it with that daughter who was his other self,
and well proved to be a safe repository.

'That's my Leonard,' said Ethel.  'I know him much better now than any time since the elf-bolt
affair!  They have not managed to ruin him among them.'

'What do you call this?' said Dr. May, understanding her, indeed, but willing to hear her thought
expressed.

'Thankworthy,' she answered, with a twitching of the corners of her mouth.

'You will suffer for this exaltation,' he said, sadly; 'you know you have a tender heart, for
all your flights.'

'And you know you have a soul as well as a heart,' said Ethel, as well as the swelling in her
throat would allow.

'To be sure, this world would be a poor place to live in, if admiration did not make pity bearable,'
said the Doctor; 'but--but don't ask me, Ethel: you have not had that fine fellow in his manly
patience before your eyes.  Talk of your knowing him!  You knew a boy!  I tell you, this has
made him a man, and one of a thousand--so high-minded and so simple, so clearheaded and well-balanced,
so entirely resigned and free from bitterness!  What could he not be? It would be grievous
to see him cut off by a direct dispensation--sickness, accident, battle; but for him to come
to such an end, for the sake of a double murderer--Ethel--it would almost stagger one's faith!'

'Almost!' repeated Ethel, with the smile of a conqueror.

'I know, I know,' said the Doctor.  'If it be so, it will be right; one will try to believe
it good for him.  Nay, there's proof enough in what it has done for him already.  If you could
only see him!'

'I mean to see him, if it should go against him,' said Ethel, 'if you will let me.  I would
go to him as I would if he were in a decline, and with more reverence.'

'Don't talk of it,' cried her father.  'For truth's sake, for justice's sake, for the country's
sake, I can not, will not, believe it will go wrong.  There is a Providence, after all, Ethel!'

And the Doctor went away, afraid alike of hope and despondency, and Ethel thought of the bright
young face, of De Wilton, of Job, and of the martyrs; and when she was not encouraging Aubrey,
or soothing Averil, her heart would sink, and the tears that would not come would have been
very comfortable.

It was well for all that the assizes were so near that the suspense was not long protracted;
for it told upon all concerned.  Leonard, when the Doctor saw him again, was of the same way
of thinking, but his manner was more agitated; he could not sleep, or if he slept, the anticipations
chased away in the day-time revenged themselves in his dreams; and he was very unhappy, also,
about his sister, whose illness continued day after day.  She was not acutely ill, but in a
constant state of low fever, every faculty in the most painful state of tension, convinced
that she was quite able to get up and go to Leonard, and that her detention was mere cruelty;
and then, on trying to rise, refused by fainting.  Her searching questions and ardent eyes
made it impossible to keep any feature in the case from her knowledge.  Sleep was impossible
to her; and once when Henry tried the effect of an anodyne, it produced a semi-delirium, which
made him heartily repent of his independent measure.  At all times she was talking--nothing
but the being left with a very stolid maid-servant ever closed her lips, and she so greatly
resented being thus treated, that the measure was seldom possible.  Henry seldom left her.
He was convinced that Leonard's sentence would be hers likewise, and he watched over her with
the utmost tenderness and patience with her fretfulness and waywardness, never quitting her
except on their brother's behalf, when Ethel or Mary would take his place.  Little Minna was
always to be found on her small chair by the bed-side, or moving about like a mouse, sometimes
whispering her one note, 'They can't hurt him, if he has not done it,' and still quietly working
at the pair of slippers that had been begun for his birthday present. Mary used to bring Ella,
and take them out walking in the least-frequented path; but though the little sisters kissed
eagerly, and went fondly hand in hand, they never were sorry to part:  Ella's spirits oppressed
Minna, and Minna's depression vexed the more volatile sister; moreover, Minna always dreaded
Mary's desire to carry her away--as, poor child, she looked paler, and her eyes heavier and
darker, every day.

No one else, except, of course, Dr. May, was admitted.  Henry would not let his sister see
Mr. Scudamour or Mr. Wilmot, lest she should be excited; and Averil's 'No one' was vehement
as a defence against Mrs. Pugh or Mrs. Ledwich, whom she suspected of wanting to see her, though
she never heard of more than their daily inquiries.

Mrs. Pugh was, in spite of her exclusion, the great authority with the neighbourhood for all
the tidings of 'the poor Wards,' of whom she talked with the warmest commiseration, relating
every touching detail of their previous and present history, and continually enduring the great
shock of meeting people in shops or in the streets, whom she knew to be reporters or photographers.
In fact, the catastrophe had taken a strong hold on the public mind; and 'Murder of an Uncle
by his Nephew,' 'The Blewer Tragedy,' figured everywhere in the largest type; newsboys on the
railway shouted, 'To-day's paper-account of inquest;' and the illustrated press sent down artists,
whose three-legged cameras stared in all directions, from the Vintry Mill to Bankside, and
who aimed at the school, the Minster, the volunteers, and Dr. Hoxton himself.  Tom advised
Ethel to guard Mab carefully from appearing stuffed in the chamber of horrors at Madame Tussaud's;
and the furniture at the mill would have commanded any price.  Nay, Mrs. Pugh was almost certain
she had seen one of the 'horrid men' bargaining with the local photographer for her own portrait,
in her weeds, and was resolved the interesting injury should never be forgiven!

She really had the 'trying scenes' of two interviews with both Mr. Bramshaw and the attorney
from Whitford who was getting up the prosecution, each having been told that she was in possession
of important intelligence.  Mr. Bramshaw was not sanguine as to what he might obtain from her,
but flattered her with the attempt, and ended by assuring her, like his opponent, that there
was no need to expose her to the unpleasantness of appearing in court.

Aubrey was not to have the same relief, but was, like his father, subpoenaed as a witness for
the prosecution.  He had followed his father's advice, and took care not to disclose his evidence
to the enemy, as he regarded the Whitford lawyer.  He was very miserable, and it was as much
for his sake as that of the immediate family, that Ethel rejoiced that the suspense was to
be short.  Counsel of high reputation had been retained; but as the day came nearer, without
bringing any of the disclosures on which the Doctor had so securely reckoned, more and more
stress was laid on the dislike to convict on circumstantial evidence, and on the saying that
the English law had rather acquit ten criminals than condemn one innocent man.

CHAPTER XIV

  Ah! I mind me now of thronging faces,
    Mocking eyed, and eager, as for sport;
  Hundreds looking up, and in high places
    Men arrayed for judgment and a court.

  And I heard, or seemed to hear, one seeking
    Answer back from one he doomed to die,
  Pitifully, sadly, sternly speaking
    Unto one--and oh! that one, twas I.--Rev. G. E. Monsell

The 'Blewer Murder' was the case of the Assize week; and the court was so crowded that, but
for the favour of the sheriff, Mr. and Mrs. Rivers, with Tom and Gertrude, could hardly have
obtained seats.  No others of the family could endure to behold the scene, except from necessity;
and indeed Ethel and Mary had taken charge of the sisters at home, for Henry could not remain
at a distance from his brother, though unable to bear the sight of the proceedings; he remained
in a house at hand.

Nearly the whole population of Stoneborough, Whitford, and Blewer was striving to press into
court, but before the day's work began, Edward Anderson had piloted Mrs. Pugh to a commodious
place, under the escort of his brother Harvey, who was collecting materials for an article
on criminal jurisprudence.

Some of those who, like the widow and little Gertrude, had been wild to be present, felt their
hearts fail them when the last previous case had been disposed of; and there was a brief pause
of grave and solemn suspense and silent breathless expectation within the court, unbroken,
except by increased sounds of crowding in all the avenues without.

Every one, except the mere loungers, who craved nothing but excitement, looked awed and anxious;
and the impression was deepened by the perception that the same feeling, though restrained,
affected the judge himself, and was visible in the anxious attention with which he looked at
the papers before him, and the stern sadness that had come over the features naturally full
of kindness and benevolence.

The prisoner appeared in the dock.  He had become paler, and perhaps thinner, for his square
determined jaw, and the resolute mould of his lips, were more than usually remarkable, and
were noted in the physiognomical brain of Harvey Anderson; as well as the keen light of his
full dark hazel eye, the breadth of his brow, with his shining light brown hair brushed back
from it; the strong build of his frame, and the determined force, apparent even in the perfect
quiescence of his attitude.

Leonard Axworthy Ward was arraigned for the wilful murder of Francis Axworthy, and asked whether
he pleaded Guilty or Not Guilty.

His voice was earnest, distinct, and firm, and his eyes were raised upwards, as though he were
making the plea of 'Not Guilty' not to man alone, but to the Judge of all the earth.

The officer of the court informed him of his right to challenge any of the jury, as they were
called over by name; and as each came to be sworn, he looked full and steadily at each face,
more than one of which was known to him by sight, as if he were committing his cause into their
hands.  He declined to challenge; and then crossing his arms on his breast, cast down his eyes,
and thus retained them through the greater part of the trial.

The jurymen were then sworn in, and charged with the issue; and the counsel for the prosecution
opened the case, speaking more as if in pity than indignation, as he sketched the history,
which it was his painful duty to establish.  He described how Mr. Axworthy, having spent the
more active years of his life in foreign trade, had finally returned to pass his old age among
his relatives; and had taken to assist him in his business a great-nephew, and latterly another
youth in the same degree of relation, the son of his late niece--the prisoner, who on leaving
school had been taken into his uncle's office, lodged in the house, and became one of the family.
It would, however, be shown by witnesses that the situation had been extremely irksome to the
young man; and that he had not been in it many months before he had expressed his intention
of absconding, provided he could obtain the means of making his way in one of the colonies.
Then followed a summary of the deductions resulting from the evidence about to be adduced,
and which carried upon its face the inference that the absence of the cousin, the remoteness
of the room, the sight of a large sum of money, and the helplessness of the old man, had proved
temptations too strong for a fiery and impatient youth, long fretted by the restraints of his
situation, and had conducted him to violence, robbery, and flight.  It was a case that could
not be regarded without great regret and compassion; but the gentlemen of the jury must bear
in mind in their investigation, that pity must not be permitted to distort the facts, which
he feared were only too obvious.

The speech was infinitely more telling from its fair and commiserating tone towards the prisoner;
and the impression that it carried, not that he was to be persecuted by having the crime fastened
on him, but that truth must be sought out at all hazards.

'Even he is sorry for Leonard!  I don't hate him as I thought I should,' whispered Gertrude
May, to her elder sister. The first witness was, as before, the young maid-servant, Anne Ellis,
who described her first discovery of the body; and on farther interrogation, the situation
of the room, distant from those of the servants, and out of hearing--also her master's ordinary
condition of feebleness.  She had observed nothing in the room, or on the table, but knew the
window was open, since she had run to it, and screamed for help, upon which Master Hardy had
come to her aid.

Leonard's counsel then elicited from her how low the window was, and how easily it could be
entered from without.

James Hardy corroborated all this, giving a more minute account of the state of the room; and
telling of his going to call the young gentlemen, and finding the open passage window and empty
bed-room. The passage window would naturally be closed at night; and there was no reason to
suppose that Mr. Ward would be absent.  The bag shown to him was one that had originally been
made for the keeping of cash, but latterly had been used for samples of grain, and he had last
seen it in the office.

The counsel for the prisoner inquired what had been on the table at Hardy's first entrance;
but to this the witness could not swear, except that the lamp was burning, and that there were
no signs of disorder, nor was the dress of the deceased disarranged.  He had seen his master
put receipts, and make memorandums, in a large, black, silver-clasped pocket-book, but had
never handled it, and could not swear to it; he had seen nothing like it since his master's
death. He was further asked how long the prisoner had been at the mill, his duties there, and
the amount of trust reposed in him; to which last the answer was, that about a month since,
Mr. Axworthy had exclaimed that if ever he wanted a thing to be done, he must set Ward about
it. Saving this speech, made in irritation at some omission on Sam's part, nothing was adduced
to show that Leonard was likely to have been employed without his cousin's knowledge; though
Hardy volunteered the addition that Mr. Ward was always respectful and attentive, and that
his uncle had lately thought much more of him than at first.

Rebekah Giles gave her account of the scene in the sitting-room.  She had been in the service
of the deceased for the last four years, and before in that of his sister-in-law, Mr. Samuel's
mother.  She had herself closed the passage window at seven o'clock in the evening, as usual.
She had several times previously found it partly open in the morning, after having thus shut
it over-night; but never before, Mr. Ward's bed unslept in.  Her last interview with Mr. Axworthy
was then narrated, with his words--an imprecation against rifle practice, as an excuse for
idle young rascals to be always out of the way.  Then followed her communication to the prisoner
at half-past nine, when she saw him go into the parlour, in his volunteer uniform, rifle in
hand, heard him turn the lock of the sitting-room door, and then herself retired to bed.

Cross-examination did not do much with her, only showing that, when she brought in the supper,
one window had been open, and the blinds, common calico ones, drawn down, thus rendering it
possible for a person to lurk unseen in the court, and enter by the window.  Her master had
assigned no reason for sending for Mr. Ward.  She did not know whether Mr. Axworthy had any
memorandum-book; she had seen none on the table, nor found any when she undressed the body,
though his purse, watch, and seals were on his person.

Mr. Rankin's medical evidence came next, both as to the cause of death, the probable instrument,
and the nature of the stains on the desk and rifle.

When cross-examined, he declared that he had looked at the volunteer uniform without finding
any mark of blood, but from the nature of the injury it was not likely that there would be
any.  He had attended Mr. Axworthy for several years, and had been visiting him professionally
during a fit of the gout in the last fortnight of June, when he had observed that the prisoner
was very attentive to his uncle.  Mr. Axworthy was always unwilling to be waited on, but was
unusually tolerant of this nephew's exertions on his behalf, and had seemed of late to place
much reliance on him.

Doctor Richard May was the next witness called.  The sound of that name caused the first visible
change in the prisoner's demeanour, if that could be called change, which was only a slight
relaxation of the firm closing of the lips, and one sparkle of the dark eyes, ere they were
again bent down as before, though not without a quiver of the lids.

Dr. May had brought tone, look, and manner to the grave impartiality which even the most sensitive
man is drilled into assuming in public; but he durst not cast one glance in the direction of
the prisoner.

In answer to the counsel for the prosecution, he stated that he was at the Vintry Mill at seven
o'clock on the morning of the 6th of July, not professionally, but as taking interest in the
Ward family. He had seen the body of the deceased, and considered death to have been occasioned
by fracture of the skull, from a blow with a blunt heavy instrument. The superintendent had
shown him a rifle, which he considered, from the marks on it, as well as from the appearance
of the body, to have produced the injury.  The rifle was the one shown to him; it was the property
of Leonard Ward.  He recognized it by the crest and cipher H. E.  It had belonged to his son-in-law,
Hector Ernescliffe, by whom it had been given to Leonard Ward.

Poor Doctor!  That was a cruel piece of evidence; and his son and daughters opposite wondered
how he could utter it in that steady matter-of-fact way; but they knew him to be sustained
by hopes of the cross-examination; and he soon had the opportunity of declaring that he had
known Leonard Ward from infancy, without being aware of any imputation against him; but had
always seen him highly principled and trustworthy, truthful and honourable, kind-hearted and
humane--the last person to injure the infirm or aged.

Perhaps the good Doctor, less afraid of the sound of his own voice, and not so much in awe
as some of the other witnesses, here in his eagerness overstepped the bounds of prudence. 
His words indeed brought a tremulous flicker of grateful emotion over the prisoner's face;
but by carrying the inquiry into the region of character and opinion, he opened the door to
a dangerous re-examination by the Crown lawyer, who required the exact meaning of his unqualified
commendation, especially in the matter of humanity, demanding whether he had never known of
any act of violence on the prisoner's part. The colour flushed suddenly into Leonard's face,
though he moved neither eye nor lip; but his counsel appealed to the judge, and the pursuit
of this branch of the subject was quashed as irrelevant; but the Doctor went down in very low
spirits, feeling that his evidence had been damaging, and his hopes of any ray of light becoming
fainter.

After this, the village policeman repeated the former statements, as to the state of the various
rooms, the desk, locked and untouched, the rifle, boat, &c., further explaining that the distance
from the mill to Blewer Station, by the road was an hour and half's walk, by the fields, not
more than half an hour's.

The station-master proved the prisoner's arrival at midnight, his demand of a day-ticket, his
being without luggage, and in a black suit; and the London policeman proved the finding of
the money on his person, and repeated his own explanation of it.

The money was all in sovereigns, except one five and one ten-pound note, and Edward Hazlitt,
the clerk of the Whitford Bank, was called to prove the having given the latter in change to
Mr. Axworthy for a fifty-pound cheque, on the 10th of May last.

This same clerk had been at the volunteer drill on the evening of the 5th of July, had there
seen the prisoner, had parted with him at dusk, towards nine o'clock, making an engagement
with him to meet on Blewer Heath for some private practice at seven o'clock on Monday evening.
Thought Mr. Axworthy did sometimes employ young Ward on his commissions; Mr. Axworthy had once
sent him into Whitford to pay in a large sum, and another time with an order to be cashed.
The dates of these transactions were shown in the books; and Hazlitt added, on further interrogation,
that Samuel Axworthy could not have been aware of the sum being sent to the bank, since he
had shortly after come and desired to see the account, which had been laid before him as confidential
manager, when he had shown surprise and annoyance at the recent deposit, asking through whom
it had been made.  Not ten days subsequently, an order for nearly the entire amount had been
cashed, signed by the deceased, but filled up in Samuel's handwriting.

This had taken place in April; and another witness, a baker, proved the having paid the five-pound
note to old Mr. Axworthy himself on the 2nd of May.

Samuel Axworthy himself was next called.  His florid face wore something of the puffed, stupefied
look it had had at the inquest, but his words were ready, and always to the point.  He identified
the bag in which the money had been found, giving an account of it similar to Hardy's, and
adding that he had last seen it lying by his cousin's desk.  His uncle had no account with
any London bank, all transactions had of late passed through his own hands, and he had never
known the prisoner employed in any business of importance--he could not have been kept in ignorance
of it if it had previously been the case.  The deceased had a black shagreen pocket-book, with
a silver clasp, which he occasionally used, but the witness had never known him give it out
of his own hand, nor take a receipt in it.  Had not seen it on the morning of the 6th, nor
subsequently. Could not account for the sum found on the person of the prisoner, whose salary
was £50 per annum, and who had no private resources, except the interest of £2000, which, he
being a minor, was not in his own hands. Deceased was fond of amassing sovereigns, and would
often keep them for a longtime in the drawer of his desk, as much as from £50 to £100.  There
was none there when the desk was opened on the 6th of July, though there had certainly been
gold there two days previously. It was kept locked.  It had a small Bramah key, which his uncle
wore on his watch-chain, in his waistcoat pocket.  The drawer was locked when he saw it on
the morning of the 6th.

The Doctor, who had joined his children, gave a deep respiration, and relaxed the clenching
of his hand, as this witness went down.

Then it came to the turn of Aubrey Spencer May.  The long waiting, after his nerves had been
wound up, had been a severe ordeal, and his delicacy of constitution and home breeding had
rendered him peculiarly susceptible.  With his resemblance to his father in form and expression,
it was like seeing the Doctor denuded of that shell of endurance with which he had contrived
to conceal his feelings. The boy was indeed braced to resolution, bat the resolution was equally
visible with the agitation in the awe-stricken brow, varying colour, tightened breath, and
involuntary shiver, as he took the oath.  Again Leonard looked up with one of his clear bright
glances, and perhaps a shade of anxiety; but Aubrey, for his own comfort, was too short-sighted
for meeting of eyes from that distance.

Seeing his agitation, and reckoning on his evidence, the counsel gave him time, by minutely
asking if his double Christian name were correctly given, his age, and if he were not the son
of Dr. May.

'You were the prisoner's school-fellow, I believe?'

'No,' faltered Aubrey.

'But you live near him?'

'We are friends,' said Aubrey, with sudden firmness and precision; and from the utterance of
that emphatic are, his spirit returned.

'Did you often see him?'

'On most Sundays, after church.'

'Did you ever hear him say he had any thoughts of the means of leaving the mill privately?'

'Something like it,' said Aubrey, turning very red.

'Can you tell me the words?'

'He said if things went on, that I was not to be surprised if I heard non est inventus,' said
Aubrey, speaking as if rapidity would conceal the meaning of the words, but taken aback by
being made to repeat and translate them to the jury.

'And did he mention any way of escaping?'

'He said the window and cedar-tree were made for it, and that he often went out that way to
bathe,' said Aubrey.

'When did this conversation take place?'

'On Sunday, the 22nd of June,' said Aubrey, in despair, as the Crown lawyer thanked him, and
sat down.

He felt himself betrayed into having made their talk wear the air of deliberate purpose, and
having said not one word of what Mr. Bramshaw had hailed as hopeful.  However, the defending
barrister rose up to ask him what he meant by having answered 'Something like it.'

'Because,' said Aubrey, promptly, 'though we did make the scheme, we were neither of us in
earnest.'

'How do you know the prisoner was not in earnest?'

'We often made plans of what we should like to do.'

'And had you any reason for thinking this one of such plans!'

'Yes,' said Aubrey; 'for he talked of getting gold enough to build up the market-cross, or
else of going to see the Feejee Islands.

'Then you understood the prisoner not to express a deliberate purpose, so much as a vague design.'

'Just so,' said Aubrey.  'A design that depended on how things went on at the mill.'  And being
desired to explain his words, he added, that Leonard had said he could not bear the sight of
Sam Axworthy's tyranny over the old man, and was resolved not to stay, if he were made a party
to any of the dishonest tricks of the trade.

'In that case, did he say where he would have gone?'

'First to New Zealand, to my brother, the Reverend Norman May.'

Leonard's counsel was satisfied with the colour the conversation had now assumed; but the perils
of re-examination were not over yet, for the adverse lawyer requested to know whence the funds
were to have come for this adventurous voyage.

'We laughed a little about that, and he said he should have to try how far his quarter's salary
would go towards a passage in the steerage.'

'If your friend expressed so strong a distaste to his employers and their business, what induced
him to enter it?'

Leonard's counsel again objected to this inquiry, and it was not permitted.  Aubrey was dismissed,
and, flushed and giddy, was met by his brother Tom, who almost took him in his arms as he emerged
from the passage.

'O, Tom! what have I done?'

'Famously, provided there's no miller in the jury.  Come,' as he felt the weight on his arm,
'Flora says I am to take you down and make you take something.'

'No, no, no, I can't!  I must go back.'

'I tell you there's nothing going on.  Every one is breathing and baiting.'  And he got him
safe to a pastrycook's, and administered brandy cherries, which Aubrey bolted whole like pills,
only entreating to return, and wanting to know how he thought the case going.

'Excellently.  Hazlitt's evidence and yours ought to carry him through. And Anderson says they
have made so much out of the witnesses for the prosecution, that they need call none for the
defence; and so the enemy will be balked of their reply, and we shall have the last word. 
I vow I have missed my vocation.  I know I was born for a barrister!'

'Now may we come back?' said the boy, overwhelmed by his brother's cheeriness; and they squeezed
into court again, Tom inserting Aubrey into his own former seat, and standing behind him on
half a foot at the angle of the passage.  They were in time for the opening of the defence,
and to hear Leonard described as a youth of spirit and promise, of a disposition that had won
him general affection and esteem, and recommended to universal sympathy by the bereavement
which was recent in the memory of his fellow-townsmen; and there was a glance at the mourning
which the boy still wore.

'They had heard indeed that he was quick-tempered and impulsive; but the gentlemen of the jury
were some of them fathers, and he put it to them whether a ready and generous spirit of indignation
in a lad were compatible with cowardly designs against helpless old age; whether one whose
recreations were natural science and manly exercise, showed tokens of vicious tendencies; above
all, whether a youth, whose friendship they had seen so touchingly claimed by a son of one
of the most highly respected gentlemen in the county, were evincing the propensities that lead
to the perpetration of deeds of darkness.'

Tom patted Aubrey on the shoulder; and Aubrey, though muttering 'humbug,' was by some degrees
less wretched.

'Men did not change their nature on a sudden,' the counsel continued; 'and where was the probability
that a youth of character entirely unblemished, and of a disposition particularly humane and
generous, should at once rush into a crime of the deep and deadly description, to which a long
course of dissipation, leading to perplexity, distress, and despair, would be the only inducement?'

He then went on to speak of Leonard's position at the mill, as junior clerk.  He had been there
for six months, without a flaw being detected, either in his integrity, his diligence, or his
regularity; indeed, it was evident that he had been gradually acquiring a greater degree of
esteem and confidence than he had at first enjoyed, and had been latterly more employed by
his uncle.  That a young man of superior education should find the daily drudgery tedious and
distasteful, and that one of sensitive honour should be startled at the ordinary, he might
almost say proverbial, customs of the miller's trade, was surprising to no one; and that he
should unbosom himself to a friend of his own age, and indulge together with him in romantic
visions of adventure, was, to all who remembered their own boyhood, an illustration of the
freshness and ingenuousness of the character that thus unfolded itself.  Where there were day-dreams,
there was no room for plots of crime.

Then ensued a species of apology for the necessity of entering into particulars that did not
redound to the credit of a gentleman, who had appeared before the court under such distressing
circumstances as Mr. Samuel Axworthy; but it was needful that the condition of the family should
be well understood, in order to comprehend the unhappy train of events which had conducted
the prisoner into his present situation.  He then went through what had been traceable through
the evidence--that Samuel Axworthy was a man of expensive habits, and accustomed to drain his
uncle's resources to supply his own needs; showing how the sum, which had been intrusted to
the prisoner, to be paid into the local bank, had been drawn out by the elder nephew as soon
as he became aware of the deposit; and how, shortly after, the prisoner had expressed to Aubrey
May his indignation at the tyranny exercised on his uncle.

'By and by, another sum is amassed,' continued Leonard's advocate. 'How dispose of it?  The
local bank is evidently no security from the rapacity of the elder nephew.  Once aware of its
existence, he knows how to use means for compelling its surrender; and the feeble old man can
no longer call his hard-earned gains his own except on sufferance. The only means of guarding
it is to lodge it secretly in a distant bank, without the suspicion of his nephew Samuel; but
the invalid is too infirm to leave his apartment; his fingers, crippled by gout, refuse even
to guide the pen.  He can only watch for an opportunity, and this is at length afforded by
the absence of the elder nephew for two days at the county races.  This will afford time for
a trustworthy and intelligent messenger to convey the sum to town, deposit it in Messrs, Drummond's
bank, and return unobserved. When, therefore, supper is brought in, Mr. Axworthy sends for
the lad on whom he has learnt to depend, and shows much disappointment at his absence.  Where
is he?  Is he engaged with low companions in the haunts of vice, that are the declivity towards
crime?  Is he gaming, or betting, or drinking?  No. He has obeyed the summons of his country;
he is a zealous volunteer, and is eagerly using a weapon presented to him by a highly respected
gentleman of large fortune in a neighbouring county; nay, so far is he from any sinister purpose,
that he is making an appointment with a fellow-rifleman for the ensuing Monday.  On his return
at dark, he receives a pressing summons to his uncle's room, and hastens to obey it without
pausing to lay aside his rifle.  The commission is explained, and well understanding the painfulness
of the cause, he discreetly asks no questions, but prepares to execute it.  The sum of £124
12s. is taken from the drawer of the desk, the odd money assigned to travelling expenses, the
£120 placed in a bag brought in from the office for the purpose, bearing the initials of the
owner, and a receipt in a private pocket-book was signed by him for the amount, and left open
on the table for the ink to dry.

'Who that has ever been young, can doubt the zest and elevation of receiving for the first
time a confidential mission?  Who can doubt that even the favourite weapon would be forgotten
where it stood, and that it would only be accordant to accredited rules that the window should
be preferable to the door?  Had it not already figured in the visions of adventure in the Sunday
evening's walk? was it not a favourite mode of exit in the mornings, when bathing and fishing
were more attractive than the pillow!  Moreover, the moonlight disclosed what appeared like
a figure in the court-yard, and there was reason at the time to suppose it a person likely
to observe and report upon the expedition.  The opening of the front door might likewise attract
notice; and if the cousin should, as was possible, return that night, the direct road was the
way to meet him.  The hour was too early for the train which was to be met, but a lighted candle
would reveal the vigil, and moonlight on the meadows was attractive at eighteen. Gentlemen
of soberer and maturer years might be incredulous, but surely it was not so strange or unusual
for a lad, who indulged in visions of adventure, to find a moonlight walk by the river-side
more inviting than a bed-room.

'Shortly after, perhaps as soon as the light was extinguished, the murder must have been committed.
The very presence of that light had been guardianship to the helpless old man below.  When
it was quenched, nothing remained astir, the way from without was open, the weapon stood only
too ready to hand, the memorandum-book gave promise of booty and was secured, though nothing
else was apparently touched. It was this very book that contained the signature that would
have exonerated the prisoner, and to which he fearlessly appealed upon his arrest at the Paddington
Station, before, for his additional misfortune, he had time to discharge himself of his commission,
and establish his innocence by the deposit of the money at the bank.  He has thus for a while
become the victim of a web of suspicious circumstances.  But look at these very circumstances
more closely, and they will be found perfectly consistent with the prisoner's statement, never
varying, be it remembered, from the explanation given to the policeman in first surprise and
horror of the tidings of the crime.

'It might have been perhaps thought that there was another alternative between entire innocence
and a deliberate purpose of robbery and murder-namely, that reproof from the old man had provoked
a blow, and that the means of flight had been hastily seized upon in the moment of confusion
and alarm.  This might have been a plausible line of defence, and secure of a favourable hearing;
but I beg to state that the prisoner has distinctly refused any such defence, and my instructions
are to contend for his perfect innocence.  A nature such as we have already traced is, as we
cannot but perceive, revolted by the bare idea of violence to the aged and infirm, and recoils
as strongly from the one accusation as from the other.

'The prisoner made his statement at the first moment, and has adhered to it in every detail,
without confusion or self-contradiction.  It does not attempt to explain all the circumstances,
but they all tally exactly with his story; he is unable to show by whom the crime could have
been committed, nor is he bound in law or justice so to do; nay, his own story shows the absolute
impossibility of his being able to explain what took place in his absence.  But mark how completely
the established facts corroborate his narrative.  Observe first the position in which the body
was found, the head on the desk, the stain of blood corresponding with the wound, the dress
undisturbed, all manifestly untouched since the fatal stroke was dealt.  Could this have been
the case, had the key of the drawer of gold been taken from the waistcoat pocket, the chain
from about the neck of the deceased, and both replaced after the removal of the money and relocking
the drawer! Can any one doubt that the drawer was opened, the money taken out, and the lock
secured, while Mr. Axworthy was alive and consenting?  Again, what robber would convey away
the spoil in a bag bearing the initials of the owner, and that not caught up in haste, but
fetched in for the purpose from the office?  Or would so tell-tale a weapon as the rifle have
been left conspicuously close at hand?  There was no guilty precipitation, for the uniform
had been taken off and folded up, and with a whole night before him, it would have been easy
to reach a more distant station, where his person would not have been recognized.  Why, too,
if this were the beginning of a flight and exile, should no preparation have been made for
passing a single night from home? why should a day-ticket have been asked for?  No, the prisoner's
own straightforward, unvarnished statement is the only consistent interpretation of the facts,
otherwise conflicting and incomprehensible.

'That a murder has been committed is unhappily too certain.  I make no attempt to unravel the
mystery.  I confine myself to the far more grateful task of demonstrating, that to fasten the
imputation on the accused, would be to overlook a complication of inconsistencies, all explained
by his own account of himself, but utterly inexplicable on the hypothesis of his guilt.

'Circumstantial evidence is universally acknowledged to be perilous ground for a conviction;
and I never saw a case in which it was more manifestly delusive than in the present, bearing
at first an imposing and formidable aspect, but on examination, confuted in every detail. Most
assuredly,' continued the counsel, his voice becoming doubly earnest, 'while there is even
the possibility of innocence, it becomes incumbent on you, gentlemen of the jury, to consider
well the fearful consequences of a decision in a matter of life or death--a decision for which
there can be no reversal.  The facts that have come to light are manifestly incomplete.  Another
link in the chain has yet to be added; and when it shall come forth, how will it be if it should
establish the guiltlessness of the prisoner too late?  Too late, when a young life of high
promise, and linked by close family ties, and by bonds of ardent friendship with so many, has
been quenched in shame and disgrace, for a crime to which he may be an utter stranger.

'The extinction of the light in that upper window was the sign for darkness and horror to descend
on the mill!  Here is the light of life still burning, but a breath of yours can extinguish
it in utter gloom, and then who may rekindle it!  Nay, the revelation of events that would
make the transactions of that fatal night clear as the noonday, would never avail to rekindle
the lamp, that may yet, I trust, shine forth to the world--the clearer, it may be, from the
unmerited imputations, which it has been my part to combat, and of which his entire life is
a confutation.'

Mrs. Pugh was sobbing under her veil; Gertrude felt the cause won. Tom noiselessly clapped
the orator behind his brother's back, and nodded his approval to his father.  Even Leonard
lifted up his face, and shot across a look, as if he felt deliverance near after the weary
day, that seemed to have been a lifetime already, though the sunbeams were only beginning to
fall high and yellow on the ceiling, through the heated stifling atmosphere, heavy with anxiety
and suspense.  Doctor May was thinking of the meeting after the acquittal, of the telegram
to Stoneborough, of the sister's revival, and of Ethel's greeting.

Still the judge had to sum up; and all eyes turned on him, knowing that the fate of the accused
would probably depend on the colouring that the facts adduced would assume in his hands.  Flora,
who met him in society, was struck by the grave and melancholy bracing, as it were, of the
countenance, that she had seen as kindly and bright as her father's; and the deep, full voice,
sad rather than stern, the very tone of which conveyed to every mind how heavy was the responsibility
of justice and impartiality.  In effect, the very force of the persuasions made for the defence,
unanswered by the prosecution, rendered it needful for him to give full weight to the evidence
for the other side; namely, the prisoner's evident impatience of his position, and premeditated
flight, the coincidence of the times, the being the last person seen to enter the room, and
with the very weapon that had been the instrument of the crime; the probability that the deceased
had himself opened the drawer, the open window, the flight, and the missing sum being found
on his person, the allegation that the receipt would be found in the pocket-book, unsupported
by any testimony as to the practice of the deceased; the strangeness of leaving the premises
so much too early for the train, and, by his own account, leaving a person prowling in the
court, close to his uncle's window.  No opinion was given; but there was something that gave
a sense that the judge felt it a crushing weight of evidence.  Yet so minutely was every point
examined, so carefully was every indication weighed which could tend to establish the prisoner's
innocence, that to those among his audience who believed that innocence indubitable, it seemed
as if his arguments proved it, even more triumphantly than the pleading of the counsel, as,
vibrating between hope and fear, anxiety and gratitude, they followed him from point to point
of the unhappy incident, hanging upon every word, as though each were decisive.

When at length he ceased, and the jury retired, the breathless stillness continued.  With some,
indeed, there was the relaxation of long-strained attention, eyes unbent, and heads turned,
but Flora had to pass her arm round her little sister, to steady the child's nervous trembling;
Aubrey sat rigid and upright, the throbs of his heart well-nigh audible; and Dr. May leant
forward, and covered his eyes with his hand; Tom, who alone dared glance to the dock, saw that
Leonard too had retired.  Those were the most terrible minutes they had ever spent in their
lives; but they were minutes of hope--of hope of relief from a burthen, becoming more intolerable
with every second's delay ere the rebound.

Long as it seemed to them, it was not in reality more than a quarter of an hour before the
jury returned, and with slow grave movements, and serious countenances, resumed their places.
Leonard was already in his; his cheek paler, his fingers locked together, and his eyes scanning
each as they came forward, and one by one their names were called over. His head was erect,
and his bearing had something undaunted, though intensely anxious.

The question was put by the clerk of the court, 'How find you? Guilty or Not guilty?'

Firmly, though sadly, the foreman rose, and his answer was, 'We find the prisoner guilty; but
we earnestly recommend him to mercy.'

Whether Tom felt or not that Aubrey was in a dead faint, and rested against him as a senseless
weight, he paid no visible attention to aught but one face, on which his eyes were riveted
as though nothing would ever detach them--and that face was not the prisoner's.

Others saw Leonard's face raised upwards, and a deep red flush spread over brow and cheek,
though neither lip nor eye wavered.

Then came the question whether the prisoner had anything to say, wherefore judgment should
not be passed upon him.

Leonard made a step forward, and his clear steady tone did not shake for a moment as he spoke.
'No.  I see that appearances are so much against me, that man can hardly decide otherwise.
I have known from the first that nothing could show my innocence but the finding of the receipt.
In the absence of that one testimony, I feel that I have had a fair trial, and that all has
been done for me that could be done; and I thank you for it, my Lord, and you, Gentlemen,'
as he bent his head; then added, 'I should like to say one thing more.  My Lord, you would
not let the question be asked, how I brought all this upon myself.  I wish to say it myself,
for it is that which makes my sentence just in the sight of God.  It is true that, though I
never lifted my hand against my poor uncle, I did in a moment of passion fling a stone at my
brother, which, but for God's mercy, might indeed have made me a murderer.  It was for this,
and other like outbreaks, that I was sent to the mill; and it may be just that for it I should
die--though indeed I never hurt my uncle.'

Perhaps there was something in the tone of that one word, indeed, which, by recalling his extreme
youth, touched all hearts more than even the manly tone of his answer, and his confession.
There was a universal weeping and sobbing throughout the court; Mrs. Pugh was on the verge
of hysterics, and obliged to be supported away; and Gertrude was choking between the agony
of contagious feeling and dread of Flora's displeasure; and all the time Leonard stood calm,
with his brave head and lofty bearing, wound up for the awful moment of the sentence.

The weeping was hushed, when the crier of the court made proclamation, commanding all persons
on pain of imprisonment to be silent.  Then the judge placed on his head the black cap, and
it was with trembling hands that he did so; the blood had entirely left his face, and his lips
were purple with the struggle to contend with and suppress his emotion.  He paused, as though
he were girding himself up to the most terrible of duties, and when he spoke his voice was
hollow, as he began:

'Leonard Axworthy Ward, you have been found guilty of a crime that would have appeared impossible
in one removed from temptation by birth and education such as yours have been.  What the steps
may have been that led to such guilt, must lie between your own conscience and that God whose
justice you have acknowledged.  To Him you have evidently been taught to look; and may you
use the short time that still remains to you, in seeking His forgiveness by sincere repentance.
I will forward the recommendation to mercy, but it is my duty to warn you that there are no
such palliating circumstances in the evidence, as to warrant any expectation of a remission
of the sentence.

And therewith followed the customary form of sentence, ending with the solemn 'And may God
Almighty have mercy on your soul!'

Full and open, and never quailing, had the dark eyes been fixed upon the judge all the time;
and at those last words, the head bent low, and the lips moved for 'Amen.'

Then Tom, relieved to find instant occupation for his father, drew his attention to Aubrey's
state; and the boy between Tom and George Rivers was, as best they could, carried through the
narrow outlets, and laid down in a room, opened to them by the sheriff, where his father and
Flora attended him, while Tom flew for remedies; and Gertrude sobbed and wept as she had never
done in her life.

It was some time before the swoon yielded, or Dr. May could leave his son, and then he was
bent on at once going to the prisoner; but he was so shaken and tremulous, that Tom insisted
on giving him his arm, and held an umbrella over him in the driving rain.

'Father,' he said, as soon as they were in the street, 'I can swear who did it.'

Dr. May just hindered himself from uttering the name, but Tom answered as if it had been spoken.

'Yes.  I saw the face of fiendish barbarity that once was over me, when I was a miserable little
school-boy!  He did it; and he has the receipt.'

Dr. May squeezed his arm.  'I have not betrayed the secret, have I!'

'You knew that he knew it!'

'Not knew--suspected--generosity.'

'I saw him!  I saw him cast those imploring earnest eyes of his on the scoundrel as he spoke
of the receipt--and the villain try to make himself of stone.  Well, if I have one wish in
life, it is to see that fellow come to the fate he deserves.  I'll never lose sight of him;
I'll dog him like a bloodhound!'

And what good will that do, when--Tom, Tom, we must move Heaven and earth for petitions.  I'll
take them up myself, and get George Rivers to take me to the Home Secretary.  Never fear, while
there's justice in Heaven.'

'Here's Henry!' exclaimed Tom, withholding his father, who had almost ran against the brother,
as they encountered round a corner.

He was pale and bewildered, and hardly seemed to hear the Doctor's hasty asseverations that
he would get a reprieve.

'He sent me to meet you,' said Henry.  'He wants you to go home--to Ave I mean.  He says that
is what he wants most--for you to go to her now, and to come to him to-morrow, or when you
can; and he wants to hear how Aubrey is,' continued Henry, as if dreamily repeating a lesson.

'He saw then--?'

'Yes, and that seems to trouble him most.'

Dr. May was past speaking, and Tom was obliged to answer for him--that Aubrey was pretty well
again, and had desired his dearest, dearest love; then asked how Leonard was.

'Calm and firm as ever,' said Henry, half choked.  'Nothing seems to upset him, but speaking
of--of you and Aubrey, Dr. May--and poor Ave. But--but they'll be together before long.'

'No such thing,' said Dr. May.  'You will see that certainty cures, when suspense kills; and
for him, I'll never believe but that all will be right yet.  Are you going home?'

'I shall try to be with--with the dear unhappy boy as long as I can, and then I'll come home.'

Dr. May grasped Henry's hand, gave a promise of coming, and a message of love to the prisoner,
tried to say something more, but broke down, and let Tom lead him away.

CHAPTER XV

      Under the shroud
      Of His thunder-cloud
  Lie we still when His voice is loud,
      And our hearts shall feel
      The love notes steal,
  As a bird sings after the thunder peal--C. F. A.

Not till dusk could Dr. May get back to Stoneborough, and then, in an evening gleam of that
stormy day, he was met at the gate of Bankside by Richard and Ethel.

'You need not come in, papa,' said Ethel.  'She is asleep.  She knows.'

Dr. May sighed with unspeakable relief.

'Mr. Bramshaw telegraphed, and his clerk came down.  It was not so very bad!  She saw it in
our faces, and she was so worn out with talking and watching, that--that the very turning her
face to the wall with hope over, became sleep almost directly.'

'That is well,' murmured the Doctor.  'And can you be spared, my dear? If you could come I
should be glad, for poor Aubrey is quite done up.'

'I can come.  Mary is with her, and Richard will stay to meet Henry, if he is coming home,
or to send up if they want you; but I think she will not wake for many hours; and then--oh!
what can any one do!'

So Richard turned back to the sorrowful house; and Dr. May, tenderly drawing Ethel's arm into
his own, told her, as they walked back, the few incidents that she most wanted to hear, as
best he could narrate them.  'You have had a heart-rending day, my dear,' he said; 'you and
Mary, as well as the rest of us.'

'There was one comfort!' said Ethel, 'and that was his own notes. Ave has all that he has written
to her from Whitford under her pillow, and she kept spreading them out, and making us read
them, and--oh! their braveness and cheeriness--they did quite seem to hold one up!  And then
poor little Minna's constant little robin-chirp of faith, "God will not let them hurt him."
One could not bear to tell the child, that though indeed they cannot hurt him, it may not be
in her sense!  Look here! These are her slippers.  She has worked on all day to finish them,
that they might be done and out of sight when he came home this evening. The last stitch was
done as Richard came in; and now I thought I could only take them out of every one's sight.'

'Poor things! poor things!  And how was it with the child when she heard?'

'The old sweet note,' said Ethel, less steadily than she had yet spoken, '"nothing could hurt
him for what he had not done."  I don't know whether she knows what--what is in store.  At
least she is not shaken yet, dear child.'

'And Ave--how did you manage with her through all the day?'

'Oh! we did as we could.  We tried reading the things Mr. Wilmot had marked, but she was too
restless; her hands would wander off to the letters, caressing them, and she would go back
to talk of him--all his ways from a baby upwards.  I hope there was no harm in letting her
do it, for if there is anything to do one good, it is his noble spirit.'

'If you had only seen his face to-day,' exclaimed the Doctor, half angrily, 'you would not
feel much comfort in the cutting off such a fellow.  No, no, it won't be.  We'll petition--petition--petition--and
save him, we will!  Minna will be right yet!  They shall not hurt him!'

'Is there really hope in that way?' said Ethel, and a quiver of relief agitated her whole frame.

'Every hope!  Every one I have seen, or Tom either, says so.  We have only to draw up a strong
enough representation of the facts, his character, and all that; and there's his whole conduct
before and since to speak for itself.  Why, when it was all over, George heard every one saying,
either he was a consummate hypocrite, or he must be innocent. Harvey Anderson declares the
press will take it up.  We shall certainly get him off.'

'You don't mean pardoned!'

'Commutation of the penalty.  Come on,' said the Doctor, hurrying at his headlong pace, 'there's
no time to be lost in getting it drawn up.'

Ethel was dragged on so fast, that she could not speak; but it was with willing haste, for
this was the sort of suspense in which motion and purpose were a great relief after the day's
weary waiting. Gertrude, quite spent with excitement and tears, had wisely betaken herself
to bed; and it would have been well had Aubrey followed her example, instead of wandering up
and down the room in his misery, flushed though wan, impetuously talking treason against trial
by jury, and abusing dignitaries.  They let him have it out, in all its fury and violence,
till he had tired out his first vehemence, and could be persuaded to lie on the sofa while
the rough draught of the petition was drawn up, Tom writing, and every one suggesting or discussing,
till the Doctor, getting thorough mastery over the subject, dictated so fluently and admirably,
that even Tom had not a word to gainsay, but observed to Ethel, when his father had gone up
to bed, and carried Aubrey off, 'What an exceedingly able man my father is!'

'Is this the first time you have found that out?' said Ethel.

'Why, you know it is not his nature to make the most of himself!  But studying under him brings
it out more; and there's a readiness about him that I wish was catching.  But I say, Ethel,
what's this?  I no more doubt who did the deed, than I do who killed Abel; but I had once seen
Cain's face, and I knew it again.  Is it true that the boy was aware, and told my father?'

'Did he tell you so?'

'Only asked if he had betrayed the secret.  If they both know it--why, if it be Leonard's taste,
I suppose I must say nothing to the contrary, but he might as well consider his sister.'

'What do you know, Tom?' said she, perplexed.

'Only that there's some secret; and if it be as I am given to understand, then it is a frenzy
that no lucid person should permit.'

'No, Tom,' said Ethel, feeling that the whole must be told, 'it is no certainty--only unsupported
suspicion, which he could not help telling papa after binding him on honour to make no use
of it. Putting things together, he was sure who the man in the yard was; but it was not recognition,
and he could not have proved it.'

'What Quixotry moved my father not to put the lawyers on the scent?'

Ethel explained; and for her pains Tom fell upon her for her folly in not having told him all,
when he could have gone to Blewer and gathered information as no professional person could
do; then lamented that he had let Aubrey keep him from the inquest, when the fellow's hang-dog
look would have been sure to suggest to him to set Anderson to get him searched.  Even now
he would go to the mill, and try to hunt up something.

'Tom, remember papa's promise!'

'Do you think a man can do nothing without committing himself, like poor Aubrey?  No, Ethel,
the Doctor may be clever, but that's no use if a man is soft, and he is uncommonly soft; and
you should not encourage him in it.'

Ethel was prevented from expressing useless indignation by the arrival of Mary, asking where
papa was.

'Gone to bed.  He said he must go off at six to-morrow, there are so many patients to see.
Ave does not want him, I hope?'

No, she is still asleep; I was only waiting for Richard, and he had dreadful work with that
poor Henry.'

'What kind of work?'

'Oh, I believe it has all come on him now that it was his fault--driving Leonard to that place;
and he was in such misery, that Richard could not leave him.'

'I am glad he has the grace to feel it at last,' said Tom.

'It must be very terrible!' said Mary.  'He says he cannot stay in that house, for every room
reproaches him; and he groaned as if he was in tremendous bodily pain.'

'What, you assisted at this scene?' said Tom, looking at her rather sharply.

'No; but Richard told me; and I heard the groans as I sat on the stairs.'

'Sat on the stairs?'

'Yes.  I could not go back to Ave's room for fear of waking her.'

'And how long?'

'Towards an hour, I believe.  I did all that piece,' said Mary, displaying a couple of inches
of a stocking leg, 'and I think it was pretty well in the dark.'

'Sitting on the stairs for an hour in the dark,' said Tom, as he gave Mary the candle he had
been lighting for her.  'That may be called unappreciated devotion.'

'I never can tell what Tom means,' said Mary, as she went up-stairs with Ethel.  'It was a
very comfortable rest.  I wish you had had the same, dear Ethel, you look so tired and worn
out.  Let me stay and help you.  It has been such a sad long day; and oh! how terrible this
is! And you know him better than any of us, except Aubrey.'

Mary stopped almost in dismay, for her sister, usually so firm, broke down entirely, and sitting
down on a low chair, threw an arm round her, and resting her weary brow against her, gave way
to long tearless sobs, or rather catches of breath.  'Oh! Mary! Mary!' she said, between her
gasps, 'to think of last year--and Coombe--and the two bright boys--and the visions--and the
light in those glorious eyes--and that this should be the end!'

'Dear, dear Ethel,' said Mary, with fast-flowing tears and tender caresses, 'you have kept
us all up; you have always shown us it was for the best.'

'It is! it is!' cried Ethel.  'I do, I will believe it!  If I had only seen his face as papa
tells of it, I could keep hold of the glory of it and the martyr spirit.  Now I only see his
earnest, shy, confiding look--and--and I don't know how to bear it.'  And Ethel's grasp of
Mary in both arms was tightened, as if to support herself under her deep labouring sobs of
anguish.  Ah! he was very fond of you.'

'There never was any one beyond our own selves that loved me so well. I always knew it would
not last--that it ought not; but oh! it was endearing; and I did think to have seen him a shining
light!'

'And don't you tell us he is a shining light now?' said Mary, among the tears that really almost
seemed to be a relief, as if her sister herself had shed them; and as she knelt down, Ethel
laid her head on her shoulder, and spoke more calmly.

'He is,' she said, 'and I ought to be thankful for it!  I think I am generally--but now--it
makes it the more piteous--the hopes--the spirit--the determination--all to be quenched, and
so quenched--and to have nothing--nothing to do for him.

'But, Ethel, papa says your messages do him more good than anything; and papa will let you
go and see him, and that will comfort him.'

Ethel's lips gave a strange sort of smile; she thought it was at simple Mary's trust in her
power, but it would hardly have been there but for the species of hope thus excited, and the
sense of sympathy. Mary was not one to place any misconstruction on what had passed; she well
knew that Leonard had almost taken a brother's place in Ethel's heart, and she prized him at
the rate of her sister's esteem. Perhaps her prominent thought was how cruel were those who
fancied that Ethel's lofty faith was unfeeling, and how very good Leonard must be to be thus
mourned.  At any rate, she was an excellent comforter, in the sympathy that was neither too
acute nor too obtuse; and purely to oblige her, Ethel for the first time submitted to her favourite
panacea of hair brushing, and found that in very truth those soft and steady manipulations
were almost mesmeric in soothing away the hard oppressive excitement, and bringing on a gentle
and slumberous resignation.

The sisters were early astir next morning, to inflict on their father a cup of cocoa, which
he rebelled against, but swallowed, and to receive his last orders, chiefly consisting of messages
to Tom about taking the petition to be approved of by Dr. Spencer and others, and then having
it properly drawn out.  Mary asked if women might sign it, and was answered with an impatient
'Pshaw!'

'But ladies do have petitions of their own,' said Mary, with some diffidence.  'Could not we
have one?'

His lips were compressed for another 'Pshaw,' when he bethought himself.  'Well, I don't know--the
more the better.  Only it won't do for you to set it going.  Flora must be the woman for that.'

'Oh, then,' cried Mary, eagerly, 'might not I walk over to breakfast at the Grange, and talk
to Flora?  Ethel, you would not mind going to Ave instead?  Or will you go to Flora?'

'You had better,' said Ethel.  'I must stay on Aubrey's account; and this is your doing, Mary,'
she added, looking at her warmly.

'Then put on your hat, Mary, and take a biscuit,' said the Doctor, 'and you shall have a lift
as far as the cross roads.'

Thus the morning began with action and with hope.  Mary found herself very welcome at the Grange,
where there was much anxiety to hear of Aubrey, as well as the more immediate sufferers.  The
Riverses had dined at Drydale, and had met the judges, as well as a good many of the county
gentlemen who had been on the grand jury and attended on the trial.  They had found every one
most deeply touched by the conduct of the prisoner.  The judge had talked to Flora about her
young brother, and the friendship so bravely avouched; had asked the particulars of the action
to which Leonard had alluded, and shown himself much interested in all that she related.

She said that the universal impression was that the evidence was dead against Leonard, and
taken apart, led to such conviction of his guilt, that no one could wonder at the verdict;
but that his appearance and manner were such, that it was almost impossible, under their influence,
not to credit his innocence.  She had reason to believe that petitions were already in hand
both from the county and the assize town, and she eagerly caught at Mary's proposal of one
from the ladies of Stoneborough.

'I'll drive in at once before luncheon, and take you home, Mary,' she said.  'And, first of
all, we will begin with the two widows, and half the battle will be won.'

Nay, more than half the battle proved to be already gained in that quarter.  The writing-table
was covered with sheets of foolscap, and Mrs. Pugh was hard at work copying the petition which
Mr. Harvey Anderson had kindly assisted in composing, and which the aunt and niece had intended
to have brought to the Grange for Mrs. Rivers's approval that very day.  Harvey Anderson had
spent the evening at Mrs. Ledwich's in drawing it up, and giving his advice; and Flora, going
over it word for word with Mrs. Pugh, felt that it could hardly have been better worded.

'He is a very clever, a very rising young man, and so feeling, said Mrs. Ledwich to Mary while
this was going on.  'In fact, he is a perfect knight-errant on this subject.  He is gone to
London this morning to see what can be done by means of the press.  I tell Matilda it is quite
a romance of modern life; and indeed, the sweet girl is very romantic still--very young, even
after all she has gone through.'

Not understanding this, Mary let it pass in calculations on the number of possible signatures,
which the two ladies undertook to collect.

'That is well,' said Flora, as they went away.  'It could not be in better hands.  It will
thrive the better for our doing nothing but writing our names.'

They met Tom on the like errand, but not very sanguine, for he said there had of late been
an outcry against the number of reprieves granted, and the public had begun to think itself
not sufficiently protected.  He thought the best chance was the discovery of some additional
fact that might tell in favour of Leonard, and confident in his own sagacity, was going to
make perquisitions at the mill. Every one had been visiting of late, and now that he knew more,
if he and his microscope could detect one drop of human blood in an unexpected place, they
would do better service to the prisoner than all the petitions that could be signed.

Averil was somewhat better; the feverishness had been removed by her long sleep of despair,
and her energy revived under the bodily relief, and the fixed purpose of recovering in time
to see her brother again; but the improvement was not yet trusted by Henry, who feared her
doing too much unless he was himself watching over her, and therefore only paid Leonard a short
visit in the forenoon, going and returning by early trains.

He reported that Leonard was very pale, and owned to want of sleep, adding, however, 'It does
not matter.  Why should I wish to lose any time?'  Calm and brave as ever, he had conversed
as cheerfully as Henry's misery would permit, inquiring into the plans of the family, which
he knew were to depend on his fate, and acquiescing in his brother's intention of quitting
the country; nay, even suggesting that it might be better for his sisters to be taken away
before all was over, though he, as well as Henry, knew that to this Averil would never have
consented.  He had always been a great reader of travels, and he became absolutely eager in
planning their life in the wild, as if where they were he must be, till the casual mention
of the word 'rifle' brought him to sudden silence, and the consciousness of the condemned cell;
but even then it was only to be urgent in consoling his brother, and crowding message on message
for his sisters; begging Henry not to stay, not to consider him for a moment, but only whatever
might be best for Ave.

In this frame Henry had left him, and late in the afternoon, Dr. May had contrived to despatch
his work and make his way to the jail, where, as he entered, he encountered the chaplain, Mr.
Reeve, a very worthy, but not a very acute man.  Pausing to inquire for the prisoner, he was
met by a look of oppression and perplexity.  The chaplain had been with young Ward yesterday
evening, and was only just leaving him; but then, instead of the admiring words the Doctor
expected, there only came a complaint of the difficulty of dealing with him; so well instructed,
so respectful in manner, and yet there was a coldness, a hardness about him, amounting to sullenness,
rejecting all attempts to gain his confidence, or bring him to confession.

Dr. May had almost been angry, but he bethought himself in time that the chaplain was bound
to believe the verdict of the court; and besides, the good man looked so grieved and pitiful,
that it was impossible to be displeased with him, especially when he began to hope that the
poor youth might be less reserved with a person who knew him better, and to consult Dr. May
which of the Stoneborough clergy had better be written to as likely to be influential with
him. Dr. May recommended Mr. Wilmot, as having visited the boy in his illness, as well as prepared
him for Confirmation; and then, with a heavier load of sadness on his heart, followed the turnkey
on his melancholy way.

When the door was opened, he saw Leonard sitting listlessly on the side of his bed, resting
his head on his hand, entirely unoccupied; but at the first perception who his visitor was,
he sprang to his feet, and coming within the arms held out to him, rested his head on the kind
shoulder.

'My dear boy--my brave fellow,' said Dr. May, 'you got through yesterday nobly.'

There was none either of the calmness or the reserve of which Dr. May had been told, in the
hot hands that were wringing his own, nor in the choking struggling voice that tried to make
the words clear--'Thank you for what you said--And dear Aubrey--how is he?'

'I came away at six, before he was awake,' said the Doctor; 'but he will not be the worse for
it, never fear!  I hope his evidence was less trying than you and he expected.'

Leonard half smiled.  'I had forgotten that,' he said, 'it was so long ago!  No, indeed--the
dear fellow was--like a bright spot in that day--only--only it brought back all we were--all
that is gone for ever.'

The tenderness of one whom he did not feel bound to uphold like his brother had produced the
outbreak that could not fail to come to so warm, open, and sensitive a nature, and at such
an age.  He was bold and full of fortitude in the front of the ordeal, and solitude pent up
his feelings, but the fatherly sympathy and perfect confidence drew forth expression, and a
vent once opened, the rush of emotion and anguish long repressed was utterly overpowering.
His youthful manhood struggled hard, but the strangled sobs only shook his frame the more convulsively,
and the tears burnt like drops of fire, as they fell among the fingers that he spread over
his face in the agony of weeping for his young vigorous life, his blasted hopes, the wretchedness
he caused, the disgrace of his name.

'Don't, don't fight against it,' said Dr. May, affectionately drawing him to his seat on the
bed, as, indeed, the violence of the paroxysm made him scarcely able to stand.  'Let it have
its way; you will be all the better for it.  It ought to be so--it must.'

And in tears himself, the Doctor turned his back, and went as far away as the cell would permit,
turning towards the books that lay on a narrow ledge that served for a table.  'How long, O
Lord, how long?' were the words that caught his eye in the open Psalms; and, startled as if
at unauthorized prying, he looked up at the dull screened and spiked window above his head,
till he knew by the sounds that the worst of the uncontrollable passion had spent itself, and
then he came back with the towel dipped in water, and cooled the flushed heated face as a sister
might have done.

'Oh--thank you--I am ashamed,' gasped the still sobbing boy.

'Ashamed!  No; I like you the better for it,' said the Doctor, earnestly.  'There is no need
that we should not grieve together in this great affliction, and say out all that is in our
hearts.'

'All!' exclaimed Leonard.  'No--no words can say that!  Oh! was it for such as this that my
poor mother made so much of me--and I got through the fever--and I hoped--and I strove--Why--why
should I be cut off--for a disgrace and a misery to all! and again came the heart-broken sobs,
though less violently.

'Not to those who look within, and honour you, Leonard.'

'Within!  Why, how bad I have been, since this is the reckoning!  I deserve it, I know--but--'
and his voice again sank in tears.

'Ethel says that your so feeling comforts her the most; to know that you have not the terrible
struggle of faith disturbed by injustice.'

'If--I have not,' said Leonard, 'it is her doing.  In those happy days when we read Marmion,
and could not believe that God would not always show the right, she showed me how we only see
bits and scraps of His Justice here, and it works round in the end!  Nay, if I had not done
that thing to Henry, I should not be here now!  It is right! It is right!' he exclaimed between
the heaving sobs that still recurred.  'I do try to keep before me what she said about Job--when
it comes burning before me, why should that man be at large, and I here? or when I think how
his serpent-eye fell under mine when I tried that one word about the receipt, that would save
my life.  Oh! that receipt!'

'Better to be here than in his place, after all!'

'I'd rather be a street-sweeper!' bitterly began Leonard.--'Oh, Dr. May, do let me have that!'
he cried, suddenly changing his tone, and holding out his hand, as he perceived in the Doctor's
button-hole a dove-pink, presented at a cottage door by a grateful patient.  For a space he
was entirely occupied with gazing into its crimson depths, inhaling the fragrance, and caressingly
spreading the cool damask petals against his hot cheeks and eyelids.  'It is so long since
I saw anything but walls!' he said.

'Three weeks,' sadly replied the Doctor.

'There was a gleam of sunshine when I got out of the van yesterday. I never knew before what
sunshine was.  I hope it will be a sunny day when I go out for the last time!'

'My dear boy, I have good hopes of saving you.  There's not a creature in Stoneborough, or
round it, that is not going to petition for you--and at your age--'

Leonard shook his head in dejection.  'It has all gone against me,' he said.  'They all say
there's no chance.  The chaplain says it is of no use unsettling my mind.'

'The chaplain is an old--' began Dr. May, catching himself up only just in time, and asking,
'How do you get on with him!'

'I can hear him read,' said Leonard, with the look that had been thought sullen.

'But you cannot talk to him?'

'Not while he thinks me guilty.'  Then, at a sound of warm sympathy from his friend, he added,
'I suppose it is his duty; but I wish he would keep away.  I can't stand his aiming at making
me confess, and I don't want to be disrespectful.'

'I see, I see.  It cannot be otherwise.  But how would it be if Wilmot came to you?'

'Would Mr. May?' said Leonard, with a beseeching look.

'Richard?  He would with all his heart; but I think you would find more support and comfort
in a man of Mr. Wilmot's age and experience, and that Mr. Reeve would have more trust in him;
but it shall be exactly as will be most comforting to you.'

'If Mr. Wilmot would be so good, then' said Leonard, meekly. 'Indeed, I want help to bear it
patiently!  I don't know how to die; and yet it seemed not near so hard a year ago, when they
thought I did not notice, and I heard Ave go away crying, and my mother murmuring, again and
again, "Thy will be done!"--the last time I heard her voice.  Oh, well that she has not to
say it now!'

'Well that her son can say it!'

'I want to be able to say it,' said the boy, fervently; 'but this seems so hard--life is so
sweet.'  Then, after a minute's thought: 'Dr. May, that morning, when I awoke, and asked you
for them--papa and mamma--you knelt down and said the Lord's Prayer.  Won't you now?'

And when those words had been said, and they both stood up again, Leonard added: 'It always
seems to mean more and more!  But oh, Dr. May! that forgiving--I can't ask any one but you
if--' and he paused.

'If you forgive, my poor boy!  Nay, are not your very silence and forbearance signs of practical
forgiveness?  Besides, I have always observed that you have never used one of the epithets
that I can't think of him without.'

'Some feelings are too strong for common words of abuse,' said Leonard, almost smiling; 'but
I hope I may be helped to put away what is wrong.--Oh, must you go?'

'I fear I must, my dear; I have a patient to see again, on my way back, and one that will be
the worse for waiting.'

'Henry has not been able to practise.  I want to ask one thing, Dr. May, before you go.  Could
not you persuade them, since home is poisoned to them, at any rate to go at once?  It would
be better for my sisters than being here--when--and they would only remember that last Sunday
at home.'

'Do you shrink from another meeting with Averil?'

His face was forced into calmness.  'I will do without it, if it would hurt her.'

'It may for the time, but to be withheld would give her a worse heart-ache through life.'

'Oh, thank you!' cried Leonard, his face lighting up; 'it is something still to hope for.'

'Nay, I've not given you up yet,' said the Doctor, trying for a cheerful smile.  'I've got
a prescription that will bring you through yet--London advice, you know.  I've great faith
in the consulting surgeon at the Home Office.'

By the help of that smile and augury, the Doctor got away, terribly beaten down, but living
on his fragment of hope; though obliged to perceive that every one who merely saw the newspaper
report in black and white, without coming into personal contact with the prisoner, could not
understand how the slightest question of the justice of the verdict could arise.  Even Mr.
Wilmot was so convinced by the papers, that the Doctor almost repented of the mission to which
he had invited him, and would, if he could, have revoked what had been said. But the vicar
of Stoneborough, painful as was the duty, felt his post to be by the side of his unhappy young
parishioner, equally whether the gaol chaplain or Dr. May were right, and if he had to bring
him to confession, or to strengthen him to 'endure grief, suffering wrongfully.'

And after the first interview, no more doubts on that score were expressed; but the vicar's
tone of pitying reverence in speaking of the prisoner was like that of his friends in the High
Street.

Tom May spared neither time nor pains in beating up for signatures for the petition, but he
had a more defined hope, namely, that of detecting something that might throw the suspicion
into the right quarter.  The least contradiction of the evidence might raise a doubt that would
save Leonard's life, and bring the true criminal in peril of the fate he so richly deserved.
The Vintry Mill was the lion of the neighbourhood, and the crowds of visitors had been a reason
for its new master's vacating it, and going into lodgings in Whitford; so that Tom, when he
found it convenient to forget his contempt of the gazers and curiosity hunters who thronged
there, and to march off on a secret expedition of investigation, found no obstacle in his way,
and at the cost of a fee to Mrs. Giles, who was making a fortune, was free to roam and search
wherever he pleased.  Even his careful examination of the cotton blind, and his scraping of
the window-sill with a knife, were not remarked; for had not the great chair been hacked into
fragmentary relics, and the loose paper of the walls of Leonard's room been made mincemeat
of, as memorials of 'the murderer, Ward'?

One long white hair picked out of a mat below the window, and these scrapings of the window-sill,
Tom carried off, and also the scrapings of the top bar of a stile between the mill and the
Three Goblets. That evening, all were submitted to the microscope.  Dr. May was waked from
a doze by a very deferential 'I beg your pardon, sir,' and a sudden tweak, which abstracted
a silver thread from his head; and Mab showed somewhat greater displeasure at a similar act
of plunder upon her white chemisette.  But the spying was followed by a sigh; and, in dumb
show, Ethel was made to perceive that the Vintry hair had more affinity with the canine than
the human.  As to the scrapings of the window, nothing but vegetable fibre could there be detected;
but on the stile, there was undoubtedly a mark containing human blood-disks; Tom proved that
both by comparison with his books, and by pricking his own finger, and kept Ethel to see it
after every one else was gone up to bed.  But as one person's blood was like another's, who
could tell whether some one with a cut finger had not been through the stile?  Tom shook his
head, there was not yet enough on which to commit himself.  'But I'll have him!--I'll have
him yet!' said he.  'I'll never rest while that villain walks the earth unpunished!'

Meantime, Harvey Anderson did yeoman's service by a really powerful article in a leading paper,
written from the very heart of an able man, who had been strongly affected himself, and was
well practised in feeling in pen and ink.  Every word rang home to the soul, and all the more
because there was no defence nor declamation against the justice of the verdict, which was
acknowledged to be unavoidable; it was merely a pathetic delineation of a terrible mystery,
with a little meditative philosophy upon it, the moral of which was, that nothing is more delusive
than fact, more untrue than truth.  However, it was copied everywhere, and had the great effect
of making it the cue of more than half the press to mourn over, rather than condemn, 'the unfortunate
young gentleman.'

Mrs. Pugh showed every one the article, and confided to most that she had absolutely ventured
to suggest two or three of the sentences. But a great deal might be borne from Mrs. Pugh, in
consideration of her indefatigable exertions with the ladies' petition, and it was a decided
success.  The last census had rated Market Stoneborough at 7561 inhabitants, and Mrs. Pugh's
petition bore no less than 3024 female names, in which she fairly beat that of the mayor; but
then she had been less scrupulous as to the age at which people should be asked to sign; as
long as the name could be written at all, she was not particular whose it was.

Dr. May made his patients agree to accept as his substitute Dr. Spencer or Mr. Wright, to whom
Henry Ward intended to resign practice and house.  He himself was to go to London for a couple
of nights with George Rivers, who was exceedingly gratified at having the charge of him all
to himself, and considered that the united influence of member and mayor must prevail.  Dr.
Spencer, on the contrary, probably by way of warning, represented Mr. Mayor as ruining everything
by his headlong way of setting about it, declaring that he would abuse everybody all round,
and assure the Home Secretary, that, as sure as his name was Dick May, it was quite impossible
the boy could have hurt a fly; though a strict sense of truth would lead him to add the next
moment, that he was terribly passionate, and had nearly demolished his brother.

Dr. May talked of his caution and good behaviour, which, maybe, were somewhat increased by
this caricature, but he ended by very hearty wishes that these were the times of Jeanie Deans;
if the pardon depended on our own good Queen, he should not doubt of it a moment. Why, was
not the boy just the age of her own son?

And verily there was no one in the whole world whom poor Averil envied like Jeanie Deans.

So member and mayor went to London together, and intense were the prayers that speeded them
and followed them.  The case was laid before the Home Secretary, the petitions presented, and
Dr. May said all that man might say on ground where he felt as if over-partisanship might be
perilous.  The matter was to have due consideration: nothing more definite or hopeful could
be obtained; but there could be no doubt that this meant a real and calm re-weighing of the
evidence, with a consideration of all the circumstances.  It was something for the Doctor that
a second dispassionate study should be given to the case, but his heart sank as he thought
of that cold, hard statement of evidence, without the counter testimony of the honest, tearless
eyes and simple good faith of the voice and tone.

And when he entered the railway carriage on his road home, the newspaper that George Rivers
attentively pressed upon him bore the information that Wednesday, the 21st, would be the day,
according to usage, for the execution of the condemned criminal, Leonard Axworthy Ward.  If
it had been for the execution of Richard May, the Doctor could hardly have given a deeper groan.

He left the train at the county town.  He had so arranged, that he might see the prisoner on
his way home; but he had hardly the heart to go, except that he knew he was expected, and no
disappointment that he could help must add to the pangs of these last days.

Leonard was alone, but was not, as before, sitting unemployed; he carefully laid down his etching
work ere he came forward to meet his friend; and there was not the bowed and broken look about
him, but a fixed calmness and resolution, as he claimed the fatherly embrace and blessing with
which the Doctor now always met him.

'I bring you no certainty, Leonard.  It is under consideration.'

'Thank you.  You have done everything,' returned Leonard, quietly; 'and--' then pausing, he
added, 'I know the day now--the day after my birthday.'

'Let us--let us hope,' said the Doctor, greatly agitated.

'Thank you,' again said Leonard; and there was a pause, during which Dr. May anxiously studied
the face, which had become as pale and almost as thin as when the lad had been sent off to
Coombe, and infinitely older in the calm steadfastness of every feature.

'You do not look well, Leonard.'

'No; I am not quite well; but it matters very little,' he said, with a smile.  'I am well enough
to make it hard to believe how soon all sense and motion will be gone out of these fingers!'
and he held up his hand, and studied the minutiae of its movements with a strange grave sort
of curiosity.

'Don't--don't, Leonard!' exclaimed the Doctor.  'You may be able to bear it, but I cannot.'

'I thought you would not mind, you have so often watched death.'

'Yes; but--' and he covered his face with his hands.

'I wish it did not pain you all so much,' said Leonard, quietly. 'But for that, I can feel
it to be better than if I had gone in the fever, when I had no sense to think or repent; or
if I had--I hardly knew my own faults.'

'You seem much happier now, my boy.'

'Yes,' said Leonard.  'I am more used to the notion, and Mr. Wilmot has been so kind.  Then
I am to see Ave to-morrow, if she is well enough. Henry has promised to bring her, and leave
her alone with me; and I do hope--that I shall be able to convince her that it is not so very
bad for me--and then she may be able to take comfort. You know she would, if she were nursing
me now in my bed at Bankside; so why should she not when she sees that I don't think this any
worse, but rather better?'

The Doctor was in no mood to think any comfort possible in thus losing one like Leonard, and
he did not commit himself to an untruth. There was a silence again, and Leonard opened his
book, and took out his etchings, one which he had already promised the Doctor, another for
Aubrey, and at the third the Doctor exclaimed inarticulately with surprise and admiration.

It was a copy of the well-known Cross-bearing Form in the Magdalen College Chapel Altar-piece,
drawn in pen and ink on a half-sheet of thick note-paper; but somehow, into the entire Face
and Figure there was infused such an expression as now and then comes direct from the soul
of the draughtsman--an inspiration entirely independent of manual dexterity, and that copies,
however exact, fail to render, nay, which the artist himself fails to renew.  The beauty, the
meekness, the hidden Majesty of the Countenance, were conveyed in a marvellous manner, and
were such as would bring a tear to the eye of the gazer, even had the drawing been there alone
to speak for itself.

'This is your doing, Leonard?'

'I have just finished it.  It has been one of my greatest comforts--'

'Ah!'

'Doing those lines;' and he pointed to the thorny Crown, 'I seem to get ashamed of thinking
this hardness.  Only think, Dr. May, from the very first moment the policeman took me in charge,
nobody has said a rough word to me.  I have never felt otherwise than that they meant justice
to have its way as far as they knew, but they were all consideration for me.  To think of that,
and then go over the scoffs and scourgings!'--there was a bright glistening tear in Leonard's
eye now--'it seems like child's play to go through such a trial as mine.'

'Yes! you have found the secret of willingness.'

'And,' added the boy, hesitating between the words, but feeling that he must speak them, as
the best balm for the sorrow he was causing, 'even my little touch of the shame and scorn of
this does make me know better what it must have been, and yet--so thankful when I remember
why it was--that I think I could gladly bear a great deal more than this is likely to be.'

'Oh! my boy, I have no fears for you now.'

'Yes, yes--have fears,' cried Leonard, hastily.  'Pray for me!  You don't know what it is to
wake up at night, and know something is coming nearer and nearer--and then this--before one
can remember all that blesses it--or the Night of that Agony--and that He knows what it is--'

'Do we not pray for you?' said Dr. May, fervently, 'in church and at home? and is not this
an answer?  Am I to take this drawing, Leonard, that speaks so much?'

'If--if you think Miss May--would let me send it to her?  Thank you, it will be very kind of
her.  And please tell her, if it had not been for that time at Coombe, I don't know how I could
ever have felt the ground under my feet.  If I have one wish that never can be--'

'What wish, my dear, dear boy?  Don't be afraid to say.  Is it to see her?'

'It was,' said Leonard, 'but I did not mean to say it.  I know it cannot be.'

'But, Leonard, she has said that if you wished it, she would come as if you were lying on your
bed at home, and with more reverence.'

Large tears of gratitude were swelling in Leonard's eyes, and he pressed the Doctor's hand,
but still said, almost inarticulately, 'Ought she?'

'I will bring her, my boy.  It will do her good to see how--how her pupil, as they have always
called you in joke, Leonard, can be willing to bear the Cross after his Master.  She has never
let go for a moment the trust that it was well with you.'

'Oh! Dr. May, it was the one thing--and when I had gone against all her wishes.  It is so good
of her!  It is the one thing--' and there was no doubt from his face that he was indeed happy.

And Dr. May went home that day softened and almost cheered, well-nigh as though he had had
a promise of Leonard's life, and convinced that in the region to which the spirits of Ethel
and her pupil could mount, resignation would silence the wailings of grief and sorrow; the
things invisible were more than a remedy for the things visible.

That Ethel should see Leonard before the last, he was quite resolved; and Ethel, finding that
so it was, left the when in his hands, knowing the concession to be so great, that it must
be met by grateful patience on her own side, treasuring the drawing meanwhile with feelings
beyond speech.  Dr. May did not wish the meeting to take place till he was really sure that
all hope was at an end; he knew it would be a strong measure, and though he did not greatly
care for the world in general, he did not want to offend Flora unnecessarily; in matters of
propriety she was a little bit of a conscience to him, and though he would brave her or any
one else when a thing was right, especially if it were to give one last moment of joy to Leonard,
she was not to be set at naught till the utmost extremity.

And for one day, the sight of Averil would be enough.  She had struggled into something sufficiently
like recovery to be able to maintain her fitness for the exertion; and Henry had recognized
that the unsatisfied pining was so preying on her as to hurt her more than the meeting and
parting could do, since, little as he could understand how it was, he perceived that Leonard
could be depended on for support and comfort.  With him, indeed, Leonard had ever shown himself
cheerful and resolute, speaking of anything rather than of himself and never grieving him with
the sight of those failings of flesh and heart that would break forth where there was more
congenial sympathy, yet where they were not a reproach.

So Averil, with many a promise to be 'good,' and strongly impressed with warnings that the
chance of another meeting depended on the effects of this one, was laid back in the carriage,
leaving poor little Minna to Mary's consolation.  Minna was longing to go too, but Henry had
forbidden it, and not even an appeal to Dr. May had prevailed; so she was taken home by Mary,
and with a child's touching patience, was helped through the weary hours, giving wandering
though gentle attention to Ella's eager display of the curiosities of the place, and explanations
of the curious games and puzzles taught by 'Mr. Tom.' Ethel, watching the sweet wistful face,
and hearing the subdued voice, felt a reverence towards the child, as though somewhat of the
shadow of her brother's cross had fallen on her.

The elder brother and sister meanwhile arrived at the building now only too familiar to one
of them, and, under her thick veil, unconscious of the pitying looks of the officials, Averil
was led, leaning on Henry's arm, along the whitewashed passages, with their slate floors, and
up the iron stairs, the clear, hard, light coldness chilling her heart with a sense of the
stern, relentless, inevitable grasp in which the victim was held.  The narrow iron door flew
open at the touch of the turnkey; a hand was on her arm, but all swam round with her, and she
only knew it was the well-known voice; she did not follow the words between her brothers and
the turnkey about the time she was to be left there, but she gave a start and shudder when
the door sprung fast again behind her, and at the same instant she felt herself upheld by an
arm round her waist.

'Take off your bonnet, Ave; let me see you,' he said, himself undoing the strings, and removing
it, then bending his face to hers for a long, almost insatiable kiss, as they stood strained
in one intense embrace, all in perfect silence on the sister's part.

'I have been making ready for you,' he said at length, partly releasing her; 'you are to sit
here;' and he deposited her, still perfectly passive in his hands, upon his bed, her back against
the wall.  'Put up your feet!  There!'  And having settled her to his satisfaction, he knelt
down on the floor, one arm round her waist, one hand in hers, looking earnestly up into her
face, with his soul in his eyes, her other hand resting on his shoulder.

'How are the little ones, Ave?'

'Very well.  Minna so longed to come.'

'Better not,' said Leonard; 'she is so little, and these white walls might distress her fancy.
They will remember our singing on the last Sunday evening instead.  Do you remember, Ave, how
they begged to stay on and on till it grew so dark that we could not see a word or a note,
and went on from memory?' and he very softly hummed the restful cadence, dying away into

  'Till in the ocean of Thy love
  We lose ourselves in Heaven above.'

'How can you bear to think of those dear happy days!'

'Because you will be glad of them by and by, said Leonard; 'and I am very glad of them now,
though they might have been so much better, if only we had known.'

'They were the only happy days of all my life!'

'I hope not--I trust not, dearest.  You may and ought to have much better and happier days
to come.'

She shook her head, with a look of inexpressible anguish, almost of reproach.

'Indeed I mean it, Ave,' he said; 'I have thought it over many times, and I see that the discomfort
and evil of our home was in the spirit of pride and rebellion that I helped you to nurse. 
It was like a wedge, driving us farther and farther apart; and now that it is gone, and you
will close up again, when you are kind and yielding to Henry--what a happy peaceful home you
may make out in the prairie land!'

'As if we could ever--'

'Nay, Averil, could not you recover it if I were dying now of sickness? I know you would, though
you might not think so at the time.  Believe me, then, when I say that I am quite willing to
have it as it is--to be my own man to the last--to meet with such precious inestimable kindness
from so many.  Of course I should like to live longer, and do something worth doing; but if
I am to die young, there is so much blessing even in this way, that nothing really grieves
me but the thought of you and Henry; and if it makes you one together, even that is made up.'

Awe-struck, and as if dreaming, she did not answer, only smoothing caressingly the long waves
of bright brown hair on his forehead.  She was surprised by his next question.

'Ave! how has Mrs. Pugh behaved?'

'Oh! the woman!  I have hardly thought of her!  She has been very active about the petition,
somebody said; but I don't believe Henry can bear to hear of her any more than I can.  What
made you think of her?'

'Because I wanted to know how it was with Henry, and I could not ask him.  Poor fellow!  Well,
Ave, you see he will depend on you entirely for comfort, and you must promise me that shall
be your great business and care.'

'How you do think of Henry!' she said, half jealously.

'Of course, Ave.  You and I have no past to grieve over together, but poor Henry will never
feel free of having left me to my self-willed obstinacy, and let me go to that place.  Besides,
the disgrace in the sight of the world touches him more, and you can tread that down more easily
than he.'  Then, in answer to a wondering look, 'Yes, you can, when you recollect that it is
crime, not the appearance of it, that is shame.  I do not mean that I do not deserve all this--but--but--'
and his eye glistened, 'Ave, dear, if I could only bring out the words to tell you how much
peace and joy there is in knowing that--with that vast difference--it is like in some degree
what was borne to save us, I really don't think you could go on grieving over me any more;
at least not more than for the loss,' he added, tenderly; 'and you'll not miss me so much in
a new country, you know, with Henry and the children to take care of.  Only promise me to be
kind to Henry.'

And having drawn forth a faint promise, that he knew would have more force by and by, Leonard
went on, in his low quiet voice, into reminiscences that sounded like random, of the happy
days of childhood and early youth, sometimes almost laughing over them, sometimes linking his
memory as it were to tune or flower, sport or study, but always for joy, and never for pain;
and thus passed the time, with long intervals of silent thought and recollection on his part,
and of a sort of dreamy stupor on his sister's, during which the strange peaceful hush seemed
to have taken away her power of recalling the bitter complaints of cruel injustice, and the
broken-hearted lamentations she had imagined herself pouring out in sympathy with her victim
brother.  Instead of being wrung with anguish, her heart was lulled and quelled by wondering
reverence; and she seemed to herself scarcely awake, and only dimly conscious of the pale-cheeked
bright-eyed face upturned to her, so calm and undaunted, yet so full of awe and love, the low
steady tender voice, and the warm upholding arm.

A great clock struck, and Leonard said, 'There! they were to come at four, and then the chaplain
is coming.  He is grown so very kind now! Ave, if they would let you be with me at my last
Communion!  Will you? Could you bear it?  I think then you would know all the peace of it!'

'Oh, yes! make them let me come.'

'Then it is not good-bye,' he said, as he fetched her bonnet and cloak, and put them on with
tender hands, as if she were a child, in readiness as steps approached, and her escort reappeared.

'Here she is, Henry,' he said, with a smile.  'She has been very good; she may come again.'
And then, holding her in his arms once more, he resigned her to Henry, saying, 'Not good-bye,
Ave; we will keep my birthday together.'

CHAPTER XVI

                         The captives went
  To their own places, to their separate glooms,
  Uncheered by glance, or hand, or hope, to brood
  On those impossible glories of the past,
  When they might touch the grass, and see the sky,
  And do the works of men.  But manly work
  Is sometimes in a prison.--S. M. Queen Isabel

'Commutation of punishment, to penal servitude for life.'

Such were the tidings that ran through Stoneborough on Sunday morning, making all feel as if
a heavy oppression had been taken from the air. In gratitude to the merciful authorities, and
thankfulness for the exemption from death, the first impressions were that Justice was at last
speaking, that innocence could not suffer, and that right was reasserting itself.  Even when
the more sober and sad remembered that leniency was not pardon, nor life liberty, they were
hastily answered that life was everything--life was hope, life was time, and time would show truth.

Averil's first tears dropped freely, as she laid her head on Mary's shoulder, and with her
hand in Dr. May's, essayed to utter the words, 'It is your doing--you have twice saved him
for me,' and Minna stood calmly glad, but without surprise.  'I knew they could not hurt him;
God would not let them.'

The joy and relief were so great as to absorb all thought or realization of what this mercy
was to the prisoner himself, until Dr. May was able to pay him a visit on Monday afternoon.
It was at a moment when the first effects of the tidings of life had subsided, and there had
been time to look forth on the future with a spirit more steadfast than buoyant.  The strain
of the previous weeks was reacting on the bodily frame, and indisposition unhinged the spirits;
so that, when Dr. May entered, beaming with congratulations, he was met with the same patient
glance of endurance, endeavouring at resignation, that he knew so well, but without the victorious
peace that had of late gained the ascendant expression.  There was instead an almost painful
endeavour to manifest gratitude by cheerfulness, and the smile was far less natural than those
of the last interview, as fervently returning the pressure of the hand, he said, 'You were
right, Dr. May, you have brought me past the crisis.'

'A sure sign of ultimate recovery, my boy.  Remember, dum spiro spero.'

Leonard attempted a responsive smile, but it was a hopeless business. From the moment when
at the inquest he found himself entangled in the meshes of circumstance, his mind had braced
itself to endure rather than hope, and his present depressed state, both mental and bodily,
rendered even that endurance almost beyond his powers.  He could only say, 'You have been very
good to me.'

'My dear fellow, you are sadly knocked down; I wish--' and the Doctor looked at him anxiously.

'I wish you had been here yesterday,' said Leonard; 'then you would not have found me so. 
No, not thankless, indeed!'

'No, indeed; but--yes, I see it was folly--nay, harshness, to expect you to be glad of what
lies before you, my poor boy.'

'I am--am thankful,' said Leonard, struggling to make the words truth. 'Wednesday is off my
mind--yes, it is more than I deserve--I knew I was not fit to die, and those at home are spared.
But I am as much cut off from them--perhaps more--than by death.  And it is the same disgrace
to them, the same exile.  I suppose Henry still goes--'

'Yes, he does.'

'Ah! then one thing, Dr. May--if you had a knife or scissors--I do not know how soon they may
cut my hair, and I want to secure a bit for poor Ave.'

Dr. May was too handless to have implements of the first order, but a knife he had, and was
rather dismayed at Leonard's reckless hacking at his bright shining wavy hair, pulling out
more than he cut, with perfect indifference to the pain.  The Doctor stroked the chestnut head
as tenderly as if it had been Gertrude's sunny curls, but Leonard started aside, and dashing
away the tears that were overflowing his eyes under the influence of the gentle action, asked
vigorously, 'Have you heard what they will do with me?'

'I do not know thoroughly.  A year or six months maybe at one of the great model establishments,
then probably you will be sent to some of the public works,' said the Doctor, sadly.  'Yes,
it is a small boon to give you life, and take away all that makes life happy.'

'If it were only transportation!'

'Yes.  In a new world you could live it down, and begin afresh.  And even here, Leonard, I
look to finding you like Joseph in his prison.'

'The iron entering into his soul!' said Leonard, with a mournful smile.

'No; in the trustworthiness that made him honoured and blessed even there.  Leonard, Leonard,
conduct will tell.  Even there, you can live this down, and will!'

'Eighteen to-morrow,' replied the boy.  'Fifty years of it, perhaps! I know God can help me
through with it, but it is a long time to be patient!'

By way of answer, the Doctor launched into brilliant auguries of the impression the prisoner's
conduct would produce, uttering assurances, highly extravagant in his Worship the Mayor, of
the charms of the modern system of prison discipline, but they fell flat; there could be no
disguising that penal servitude for life was penal servitude for life, and might well be bitterer
than death itself.  Sympathy might indeed be balm to the captive, but the good Doctor pierced
his own breast to afford it, so that his heart sank even more than when he had left the young
man under sentence of death.  His least unavailing consolations were his own promises of frequent
visits, and Aubrey's of correspondence, but they produced more of dejected gratitude than of
exhilaration.  Yet it was not in the way of murmur or repining, but rather of 'suffering and
being strong,' and only to this one friend was the suffering permitted to be apparent.  To
all the officials he was simply submissive and gravely resolute; impassive if he encountered
sharpness or sternness, but alert and grateful towards kindliness, of which he met more and
more as the difference between dealing with him and the ordinary prisoners made itself felt.

To Dr. May alone was the depth of pain betrayed; but another comforter proved more efficient
in cheering the prisoner, namely, Mr. Wilmot, who, learning from the Doctor the depression
of their young friend, hastened to endeavour at imparting a new spring of life on this melancholy
birthday.  Physically, the boy was better, and perhaps the new day had worn off somewhat of
the burthen of anticipation, for Mr. Wilmot found him already less downcast, and open to consolation.
It might be, too, that the sense that the present was to have been his last day upon earth,
had made him more conscious of the relief from the immediate shadow of death, for he expressed
his thankfulness far more freely and without the effort of the previous day.

'And, depend on it,' said Mr. Wilmot, 'you are spared because there is something for you to do.'

'To bear,' said Leonard.

'No, to do.  Perhaps not immediately; but try to look on whatever you have to bear, not only
as carrying the cross, as I think you already feel it--'

'Or there would be no standing it at all.'

'True,' said Mr. Wilmot; 'and your so feeling it convinces me the more that whatever may follow
is likewise to be looked upon as discipline to train you for something beyond.  Who knows what
work may be in store, for which this fiery trial may be meant to prepare you?'

The head was raised, and the eyes brightened with something like hope in their fixed interrogative
glance.

'Even as things are now, who knows what good may be done by the presence of a man educated,
religious, unstained by crime, yet in the same case as those around him?  I do not mean by
quitting your natural place, but by merely living as you must live.  You were willing to have
followed your Master in His death.  You now have to follow Him by living as one under punishment;
and be sure it is for some purpose for others as well as yourself.'

'If there is any work to be done for Him, it is all right,' said Leonard, cheerily; and as
Mr. Wilmot paused, he added, 'It would be like working for a friend--if I may dare say so--after
the hours when this place has been made happy to me.  I should not mind anything if I might
only feel it working for Him.'

'Feel it.  Be certain of it.  As you have realized the support of that Friend in a way that
is hardly granted, save in great troubles, so now realize that every task is for Him.  Do not
look on the labour as hardship inflicted by mistaken authority--'

'Oh, I only want to get to that!  I have been so long with nothing to do!'

'And your hearty doing of it, be it what it may, as unto the Lord, can be as acceptable as
Dr. May's labours of love among the poor--as entirely a note in the great concord in Heaven
and earth as the work of the ministry itself--as completely in unison.  Nay, further, such
obedient and hearty work will form you for whatever may yet be awaiting you, and what that
may be will show itself in good time, when you are ready for it.

'The right chord was touched, the spirit of energy was roused, and Leonard was content to be
a prisoner of hope, not the restless hope of liberation, but the restful hope that he might
yet render faithful service even in his present circumstances.

Not much passed his lips in this interview, but its effect was apparent when Dr. May again
saw him, and this time in company with Aubrey.  Most urgent had been the boy's entreaties to
be taken to see his friend, and Dr. May had only hesitated because Leonard's depression had
made himself so unhappy that he feared its effect on his susceptible son; whose health had
already suffered from the long course of grief and suspense.  But it was plain that if Aubrey
were to go at all, it must be at once, since the day was fixed for the prisoner's removal,
and the still nearer and dearer claims must not clash with those of the friend. Flora shook
her head, and reminded her father that Leonard would not be out of reach in future, and that
the meeting now might seriously damage Aubrey's already uncertain health.

'I cannot help it, Flora,' said the Doctor; 'it may do him some temporary harm, but I had rather
see him knocked down for a day or two, than breed him up to be such a poor creature as to sacrifice
his friendship to his health.'

And Mrs. Rivers, who knew what the neighbourhood thought of the good Doctor's infatuation,
felt that there was not much use in suggesting how shocked the world would be at his encouragement
of the intimacy between the convict and his young son.

People did look surprised when the Doctor asked admission to the cell for his son as well as
himself; and truly Aubrey, who in silence had worked himself into an agony of nervous agitation,
looked far from fit for anything trying.  Dr. May saw that he must not ask to leave the young
friends alone together, but in his reverence for the rights of their friendship, he withdrew
himself as far as the limits of the cell would allow, turned his back, and endeavoured to read
the Thirty-nine Articles in Leonard's Prayer-Book; but in spite of all his abstraction, he
could not avoid a complete consciousness that the two lads sat on the bed, clinging with arms
round one another like young children, and that it was Leonard's that was the upright sustaining
figure, his own Aubrey's the prone and leaning one.  And of the low whispering murmurs that
reached his would-be deafened ear, the gasping almost sobbing tones were Aubrey's.  The first
distinct words that he could not help hearing were, 'No such thing!  There can't be slavery
where one works with a will!' and again, in reply to something unheard, 'Yes, one can! Why,
how did one do one's Greek?'--'Very different!'--'How?'--'Oh!'--'Yes; but you are a clever
chap, and had her to teach you, but I only liked it because I'd got it to do.  Just the same
with the desk-work down at the mill; so it may be the same now.'

Then came fragments of what poor Aubrey had expressed more than once at home--that his interest
in life, in study, in sport, was all gone with his friend.

'Come, Aubrey, that's stuff.  You'd have had to go to Cambridge, you know, without me, after
I doggedly put myself at that place.  There's just as much for you to do as ever there was.'

'How you keep on with your do!' cried Ethel's spoilt child, with a touch of petulance.

'Why, what are we come here for--into this world, I mean--but to do!' returned Leonard; 'and
I take it, if we do it right, it does not much matter what or where it is.'

'I shan't have any heart for it!' sighed Aubrey.

'Nonsense!  Not with all your people at home? and though the voice fell again, the Doctor's
ears distinguished the murmur, 'Why, just the little things she let drop are the greatest help
to me here, and you always have her--'

Then ensued much that was quite inaudible, and at last Leonard said, 'No, old fellow; as long
as you don't get ashamed of me, thinking about you, and knowing what you are about, will be
one of the best pleasures I shall have.  And look here, Aubrey, if we only consider it right,
you and I will be just as really working together, when you are at your books, and I am making
mats, as if we were both at Cambridge side by side!  It is quite true, is it not, Dr. May?'
he added, since the Doctor, finding it time to depart, had turned round to close the interview.

'Quite true, my boy,' said the Doctor; 'and I hope Aubrey will try to take comfort and spirit
from it.'

'As if I could!' said Aubrey, impatiently, 'when it only makes me more mad to see what a fellow
they have shut up in here!'

'Not mad, I hope,' said Dr. May; 'but I'll tell you what it should do for both of us, Aubrey.
It should make us very careful to be worthy to remain his friends.'

'O, Dr. May!' broke in Leonard, distressed.

'Yes,' returned Dr. May, 'I mean what I say, however you break in, Master Leonard.  As long
as this boy of mine is doing his best for the right motives, he will care for you as he does
now--not quite in the same despairing way, of course, for holes in one's daily life do close
themselves up with time--but if he slacks off in his respect or affection for you, then I shall
begin to have fears of him.  Now come away, Aubrey, and remember for your comfort it is not
the good-bye it might have been,' he added, as he watched the mute intensity of the boys' farewell
clasp of the hands; but even then had some difficulty in getting Aubrey away from the friend
so much stronger as the consoler than as the consoled, and unconsciously showing how in the
last twenty-four hours his mind had acted on the topics presented to him by Mr. Wilmot.

Changed as he was from the impetuous boyish lad of a few weeks since, a change even more noticeable
when with his contemporary than in intercourse with elder men, yet the nature was the same.
Obstinacy had softened into constancy, pride into resolution, generosity made pardon less difficult,
and elevation of temper bore him through many a humiliation that, through him, bitterly galled
his brother.

Whatever he might feel, prison regulations were accepted by him as matters of course, not worth
being treated as separate grievances. He never showed any shrinking from the assumption of
the convict dress, whilst Henry was fretting and wincing over the very notion of his wearing
it, and trying to arrange that the farewell interview should precede its adoption.

CHAPTER XVII

  Scorn of me recoils on you.
                 E. B. BROWNING

After the first relief, the relaxation of his brother's sentence had by no means mitigated
Henry Ward's sense of disgrace, but had rather deepened it by keeping poor Leonard a living,
not a dead, sorrow.

He was determined to leave England as soon as possible, that his sisters might never feel that
they were the relative of a convict; and bringing Ella home, he promulgated a decree that Leonard
was never to be mentioned; hoping that his existence might be forgotten by the little ones.

To hurry from old scenes, and sever former connections, was his sole thought, as if he could
thus break the tie of brotherhood.  There was a half-formed link that had more easily snapped.
His courtship had been one of prudence and convenience, and in the overwhelming period of horror
and suspense had been almost forgotten.  The lady's attempts at sympathy had been rejected
by Averil without obstruction from him, for he had no such love as could have prevented her
good offices from becoming oppressive to his wounded spirit, and he had not sufficient energy
or inclination to rouse himself to a response.

And when the grant of life enabled him to raise his head and look around him, he felt the failure
of his plans an aggravation of his calamity, though he did not perceive that his impatience
to rid himself of an encumbrance, and clear the way for his marriage, had been the real origin
of the misfortune.  Still he was glad that matters had gone no further, and that there was
no involvement beyond what could be handsomely disposed of by a letter, resigning his pretensions,
and rejoicing that innate delicacy and prudence had prevented what might have involved the
lady's feelings more deeply in the misfortune of his family: representing himself in all good
faith as having retreated from her proffered sympathy out of devoted consideration for her,
and closing with elaborate thanks for her exertions on behalf of 'his unhappy brother.'

The letter had the honour of being infinitely lauded by Mrs. Ledwich, who dwelt on its nobleness
and tenderness in many a tete-a-tete, and declared her surprise and thankfulness at the immunity
of her dear Matilda's heart.  In strict confidence, too, Dr. Spencer (among others) learnt
that--though it was not to be breathed till the year was out, above all till the poor Wards
were gone--the dear romantic girl had made her hand the guerdon for obtaining Leonard's life.

'So there's your fate, Dick,' concluded his friend.

'You forget the influence of the press,' returned Dr. May.  'People don't propose such guerdons
without knowing who is to earn them.'

'Yes, she has long believed in King John,' said Ethel.

Meantime Averil Ward was acquiescing in all Henry's projects with calm desperate passiveness.
She told Mary that she had resolved that she would never again contend with Henry, but would
let him do what he would with herself and her sisters.  Nor had his tenderness during her illness
been in vain; it had inspired reliance and affection, such as to give her the instinct of adherence
to him as the one stay left to her.  With Leonard shut up, all places were the same to her,
except that she was in haste to escape from the scenes connected with her lost brother; and
she looked forward with dull despairing acquiescence to the new life with which Henry hoped
to shake off the past.

A colony was not change enough for Henry's wishes; even there he made sure of being recognized
as the convict's brother, and was resolved to seek his new home in the wide field of America,
disguising his very name, as Warden, and keeping up no communication with the prisoner except
under cover to Dr. May.

To this unfailing friend was committed the charge of the brother.  He undertook to watch over
the boy, visit him from time to time, take care of his health, and obtain for him any alleviations
permitted by the prison rules; and as Henry reiterated to Averil, it was absolutely certain
that everything possible from external kindness was thus secured.  What more could they themselves
have done, but show him their faces at the permitted intervals? which would be mere wear and
tear of feeling, very bad for both parties.

Averil drooped, and disputed not--guessing, though not yet understanding, the heart hunger
she should feel even for such a dreary glimpse.

Every hour seemed to be another turn of the wheel that hurried on the departure.  The successor
wished to take house and furniture as they stood, and to enter into possession as soon as possible,
as he already had taken the practice.  This coincided with Henry's burning impatience to be
quit of everything, and to try to drown the sense of his own identity in the crowds of London.
He was his sisters' only guardian, their property was entirely in his hands, and no one had
the power of offering any obstacle, so that no delay could be interposed; and the vague design
passed with startling suddenness to a fixed decision, to be carried into execution immediately.
It came in one burst upon the May household that Averil and her sisters were coming to spend
a last evening before their absolute packing to go on the Saturday to London, where they would
provide their outfit, and start in a month for America.

The tidings were brought by Mary, who had, as usual, been spending part of the morning with
Averil.  No one seemed to be so much taken by surprise as Tom, whose first movement was to
fall on his sisters for not having made him aware of such a preposterous scheme.  They thought
he knew.  He knew that all the five quarters of the world had been talked of in a wild sort
of a way; but how could he suppose that any man could be crazed enough to prefer to be an American
citizen, when he might remain a British subject?

Repugnance to America was naturally strong in Tom, and had of late been enhanced by conversations
with an Eton friend, who, while quartered in Canada, had made excursions into the States, and
acquired such impressions as high-bred young officers were apt to bring home from a superficial
view of them.  Thus fortified, he demanded whether any reasonable person had tried to bring
Henry Ward to his senses.

Ethel believed that papa had advised otherwise.

'Advised!  It should have been enforced!  If he is fool enough to alter his name, and throw
up all his certificates what is to become of him? He will get no practice in any civilized
place, and will have to betake himself to some pestilential swamp, will slave his sisters to
death, spend their money, and destroy them with ague.  How can you sit still and look on, Ethel?'

'But what could I do?'

'Stir up my father to interfere.'

'I thought you always warned us against interfering with Henry Ward.'

He treated this speech as maliciously designed to enrage him. 'Ethel!' he stammered, 'in a
case like this--where the welfare--the very life--of one--of your dearest friend--of Mary's,
I mean--I did think you would have been above--'

'But, Tom, I would do my utmost, and so would papa, if it were possible to do anything; but
it is quite in vain.  Henry is resolved against remaining under British rule, and America seems
to be the only field for him.'

'Much you know or care!' cried Tom.  'Well, if no one else will, I must!'

With which words he departed, leaving his sister surprised at his solicitude, and dubious of
the efficacy of his remonstrance, though she knew by experience that Tom was very different
in a great matter from what he was in a small one.

Tom betook himself to Bankside, and the first person he encountered there was his little friend
Ella, who ran up to him at once.

'Oh, Mr. Tom, we are going to America!  Shall you be sorry?'

'Very sorry,' said Tom, as the little hand was confidingly thrust into his.

'I should not mind it, if you were coming too, Mr. Tom!'

'What, to play at French billiards?'

'No, indeed!  To find objects for the microscope.  I shall save all the objects I meet, and
send them home in a letter.'

'An alligator or two, or a branch of the Mississippi,' said Tom, in a young man's absent way
of half-answering a pet child; but the reply so struck Ella's fancy, that, springing through
the open French window, she cried,  'Oh, Ave, Ave, here is Mr. Tom saying I am to send him
a branch of the Mississippi in a letter, as an object for his microscope!'

'I beg your pardon,' said Tom, shocked at Averil's nervous start, and still more shocked at
her appearance.  She looked like one shattered by long and severe illness; her eyes were restless
and distressed, her hair thrust back as if it oppressed her temples, her manner startled and
over-wrought, her hand hot and unsteady--her whole air that of one totally unequal to the task
before her.  He apologized for having taken her by surprise, and asked for her brother.  She
answered, that he was busy at Mr. Bramshaw's, and she did not know when he would come in. But
still Tom lingered; he could not bear to leave her to exertions beyond her strength.  'You
are tiring yourself,' he said; 'can I do nothing to help you?'

'No, no, thank you; I am only looking over things.  Minna is helping me, and I am making an
inventory.'

'Then you must let me be of use to you.  You must be as quiet as possible.  You need rest.'

'I can't rest; I'm better busy!' she said hastily, with quick, aimless, bustling movements.

But Tom had his father's tone, as he gently arrested the trembling hand that was pulling open
a drawer, and with his father's sweet, convincing smile, said, 'What's that for?' then drew
up a large arm-chair, placed her in it, and, taking pen and list, began to write--sometimes
at her suggestion, sometimes at his own--giving business-like and efficient aid.

The work was so grave and regular, that Ella soon found the room tedious, and crept out, calling
Minna to aid in some of their own personal matters.

Slowly enumerating the articles they came to the piano.  Averil went up to it, leant fondly
against it, and softly touched the keys.  'My own,' she said, 'bought for a surprise to me
when I came home from school! And oh, how he loved it!'

'Every one had reason to love it,' said Tom, in a low voice; but she did not heed or hear.

'I cannot--cannot part with it!  When I sit here, I can almost feel him leaning over me!  You
must go--I will pay your expenses myself! I wonder if we should have such rough roads as would
hurt you,' she added, caressingly toying with the notes, and bringing soft replies from them,
as if she were conversing with a living thing.

'Ah!' said Tom, coming nearer, 'you will, I hope, take care to what your brother's impetuosity
might expose either this, or yourself.'

'We shall all fare alike,' she said, carelessly.

'But how?' said Tom.

'Henry will take care of that.'

'Do you know, Miss Ward, I came down here with the purpose of setting some matters before your
brother that might dissuade him from making the United States his home.  You have justly more
influence than I. Will you object to hear them from me?'

Ave could not imagine why Tom May, of all people in the world, should thrust himself into the
discussion of her plans; but she could only submit to listen, or more truly to lean back with
wandering thoughts and mechanical signs of assent, as he urged his numerous objections. Finally,
she uttered a meek 'Thank you,' in the trust that it was over.

'And will you try to make your brother consider these things?'

Poor Ave could not have stood an examination on 'these things,' and feeling inadequate to undertake
the subject, merely said something of 'very kind, but she feared it would be of no use.'

'I assure you, if you would persuade him to talk it over with me, that I could show him that
he would involve you all in what would be most distasteful.'

'Thank you, but his mind is made up.  No other course is open.'

'Could he not, at least, go and see what he thinks of it, before taking you and your sisters?'

'Impossible!' said Averil.  'We must all keep together; we have no one else.'

'No, indeed, you must not say that,' cried Tom, with a fire that startled Averil in the midst
of her languid, dreary indifference.

'I did not mean,' she said, 'to be ungrateful for the kindness of your family--the Doctor and
dear Mary, above all; but you must know-'

'I know,' he interrupted, 'that I cannot see you exiling yourself with your brother, because
you think you have no one else to turn to--you, who are so infinitely dear--'

'This is no time for satire,' she said, drawing aside with offence, but still wearily, and
as if she had not given attention enough to understand him.

'You mistake me,' he exclaimed; 'I mean that no words can tell how strong the feeling is that--that--No,
I never knew its force till now; but, Averil, I cannot part with you--you who are all the world
to me.'

Lifting her heavy eyelids for a moment, she looked bewildered, and then, moving towards the
door, said, 'I don't know whether this is jest or earnest--any way, it is equally unsuitable.'

'What do you see in me,' cried Tom, throwing himself before her, 'that you should suppose me
capable of jesting on such a subject, at such a moment?'

'I never saw anything but supercilious irony,' she answered, in the same dreamy, indifferent
way, as if hardly aware what she was saying, and still moving on.

'I cannot let you go thus.  You must hear me,' he cried, and he wheeled round an easy-chair,
with a gesture of entreaty; which she obeyed, partly because she was hardly alive to understand
his drift, partly because she could scarcely stand; and there she sat, in the same drowsy resignation
with which she had listened to his former expostulation.

Calm collected Tom was almost beside himself.  'Averil!  Averil!' he cried, as he sat down
opposite and bent as close to her as possible, 'if I could only make you listen or believe
me!  What shall I say? It is only the honest truth that you are the dearest thing in the whole
world to me!  The very things that have given you most offence arose from my struggles with
my own feelings.  I tried to crush what would have its way in spite of me, and now you see
its force.'  He saw greater life and comprehension in her eye as he spoke, but the look was
not encouraging; and he continued: 'How can I make you understand!  Oh! if I had but more time!--but--but
it was only the misery of those moments that showed me why it was that I was always irresistibly
drawn to you, and yet made instinctive efforts to break the spell; and now you will not understand.'

'I do understand,' said Averil, at length entirely roused, but chiefly by resentment.  'I understand
how much a country surgeon's daughter is beneath an M. D.'s attention, and how needful it was
to preserve the distance by marks of contempt.  As a convict's sister, the distance is so much
widened, that it is well for both that we shall never meet again.'

Therewith she had risen, and moved to the door.  'Nay, nay,' he cried; 'it is for that very
reason that all my past absurdity is trampled on! I should glory in a connection with such
as Leonard! Yes, Averil,' as he fancied he saw her touched, 'you have never known me yet; but
trust yourself and him to me, and you will give him a true brother, proud of his nobleness.
You shall see him constantly--you shall keep your sisters with you.  Only put yourself in my
hands, and you shall know what devotion is.'

He would have said more, but Averil recalled herself, and said: 'This is mere folly; you would
be very sorry, were I to take you at your word.  It would be unworthy in me towards your father,
towards Henry, towards you, for me to listen to you, even if I liked you, and that you have
taken good care to prevent me from doing.'  And she opened the door, and made her way into
the hall.

'But, Averil!--Miss Ward!' he continued, pursuing her, 'if, as I swear I will, I track out
the real offender, bring him to justice, proclaim Leonard's innocence?  Then--'

She was half-way up the stairs.  He had no alternative but to take his hat and stride off in
a tumult of dismay, first of all at the rejection, and next at his own betrayal of himself.
Had he guessed what it would come to, would he ever have trusted himself in that drawing-room?
This was the meaning of it all, was it?  He, the sensible man of the family, not only to be
such an egregious ass, but to have made such a fool of himself!  For he was as furious at having
committed himself to himself, as he was at his avowal to Averil--he, who had always been certain
of loving so wisely and so well, choosing an example of the true feminine balance of excellence,
well born, but not too grand for the May pretensions; soundly religious, but not philanthropically
pious; of good sense and ability enough for his comfort, but not of overgrown genius for his
discomfort; of good looks enough for satisfaction, but not for dangerous admiration; of useful,
but not overwhelming wealth; of creditable and not troublesome kindred--that he should find
himself plunged headlong into love by those brown eyes and straight features, by the musical
genius, talents anything but domestic, ill-regulated enthusiasm, nay, dislike to himself, in
the very girl whose station and family he contemned at the best, and at the very time when
her brother was a convict, and her sisters dependent!  Was he crazed?  Was he transformed?
What frenzy had come over him to endear her the more for being the reverse of his ideal?  And,
through all, his very heart was bursting at the thought of the wounds he had given her in his
struggles against the net of fascination.  He had never imagined the extent of the provocation
he gave; and in truth, his habitual manner was such, that it was hard to distinguish between
irony and genuine interest.  And now it was too late!  What should he be henceforth to her?
What would Stoneborough and his future be to him?  He would, he believed, have taught himself
to acquiesce, had he seen any chance of happiness before her; but the picture he drew of her
prospects justified his misery, at being only able to goad her on, instead of drawing her back.
He was absolutely amazed at himself.  He had spoken only the literal truth, when he said that
he had been unconscious of the true nature of the feelings that always drew him towards her,
though only to assert his independence, and make experiments by teasing in his ironically courteous
way.  Not until the desolate indifference of her tone had incited him to show her that Henry
was not all that remained to her, had he arrived at the perception that, in the late weeks
of anxiety, she had grown into his heart, and that it was of no use to argue the point with
himself, or think what he would do, the fact was accomplished--his first love was a direct
contradiction to his fixed opinions, he had offended her irrevocably and made a fool of himself,
and she was going away to dreariness!

At first he had rushed off into the melancholy meadows, among the sodden hay-cocks still standing
among the green growth of grass; but a shower, increasing the damp forlornness of the ungenial
day, made him turn homewards.  When, late in the afternoon, Ethel came into the schoolroom
for some Cocksmoor stores, she found him leaning over his books on the table.  This was his
usual place for study; and she did not at once perceive that the attitude was only assumed
on her entrance, so kneeling in front of her cupboard, she asked, 'What success?'

'I have not seen him.'

'Oh! I thought I saw you going--'

'Never mind!  I mean,' he added with some confusion, 'I wish for a little peace.  I have a
horrid headache.'

'You!' exclaimed Ethel; and turning round, she saw him leaning back in his chair, a defenceless
animal without his spectacles, his eyes small and purpled ringed, his hair tossed about, his
spruceness gone. 'I am sure you are not well,' she said.

'Quite well.  Nonsense, I only want quiet.'

'Let me give you some of Aubrey's camphor liniment.'

'Thank you,' submitting to a burning application to his brow; but as she lingered in anxiety,
'I really want nothing but quiet.'

How like Norman he looks! thought Ethel, as she cast her last glance and departed.  Can he
be going to be ill?  If he would only tell when anything is the matter!  I know papa says that
some of us feel with our bodies, and some with our minds; but then I never knew Tom much affected
any way, and what is all this to him?  And a sigh betrayed the suppressed heartache that underlaid
all her sensations.  I am afraid it must be illness; but any way, he will neither tell nor
bear to have it noticed, so I can only watch.

Enter the two little Wards, with a message that Ave was sorry, but that she was too much tired
to come that evening; and when Mary regretted not having been able to come and help her, Ella
answered that 'Mr. Tom had come and helped her for a long time.'

'Yes,' said Minna; 'but I think he must have done it all wrong, for, do you know, I found the
list he had made torn up into little bits.

Ethel almost visibly started, almost audibly exclaimed.  At tea-time Tom appeared, his trimness
restored, but not his usual colouring; and Ella hailed him with reproaches for having gone
away without telling her.  The soft attention of which the child had a monopoly did not fail,
though he bent down, trying to keep her to himself, and prevent their colloquy from attracting
notice; but they were so close behind Ethel's chair, that she could not help hearing: 'We were
only gone to dig up the violets that you are to have, and if you had only stayed you would
have seen Henry, for he came in by the little gate, and when I went to tell you, you were gone.'

Ethel wondered whether the blushes she felt burning all over her face and neck would be remarked
by those before her, or would reveal to Tom, behind her, that the child was giving her the
key to his mystery. Marvelling at the exemplary gentleness and patience of his replies to his
little coquettish tormentor, she next set herself to relieve him by a summons to Ella to tea
and cherries.  Fortunately the fruit suggested Dr. May's reminiscences of old raids on cherry
orchards now a mere name, and he thus engrossed all the younger audience not entirely preoccupied.
He set himself to make the little guests forget all their sorrows, as if he could not help
warming them for the last time in the magic of his own sunshine; but Ethel heard and saw little
but one figure in the quietest corner of the room, a figure at which she scarcely dared to look.

'And there you are!' so went her thoughts.  'It is true then!  Fairly caught!  Your lofty crest
vailed at last--and at such a time!  O, Tom, generous and true-hearted, in spite of all your
nonsense!  How could she help being touched?  In the net and against his will!  Oh, triumph
of womanhood!  I am so glad!  No, I'm not, it is best this way, for what an awkward mess it
would have been!  She is dear Leonard's sister, to be sure, and there is stuff in her, but
papa does not take to her, and I don't know whether she would fit in with Tom himself!  But
oh! the fun it would have been to see Flora's horror at finding her one prudent brother no
better than the rest of us!  Dear old Tom!  The May heart has been too strong for the old Professor
nature!  What a retribution for his high mightiness!  Harry and Richard to be guarded from
making fools of themselves!  What a nice cloak for jealousy!  But it is no laughing matter!
How miserable, how thoroughly upset, he is! Poor dear Tom!  If I could only go and kiss you,
and tell you that I never loved you half so well; but you would rather die than let out one
word, I know!  Why, any one of the others would have had it all out long ago!  And I don't
know whether it is quite safe to screen the lamp from those aching eyes that are bearing it
like a martyr!  There! Well, maybe he will just stand the knowing that I know, provided I don't
say a word; but I wish people would not be so "self-contained!"'

Self-contained Tom still continued in the morning, though looking sallow and wan; but, in a
political argument with his father, he was snappish and overbearing, and in the course of the
day gave another indication of being thrown off his balance, which was even harder for Ethel
to endure.

Throughout the suspense on Leonard's account, Aubrey had been a source of anxiety to all, especially
to Tom.  The boy's sensitive frame had been so much affected, that tender dealings with him
were needful, and all compulsion had been avoided. His father had caused him to be put on the
sick-list of the volunteers; and as for his studies, though the books were daily brought out,
it was only to prevent the vacuum of idleness; and Tom had made it his business to nurse his
brother's powers, avoid all strain on the attention, and occupy without exciting, bearing with
his fitful moods of despondence or of hope, whether they took the form of talking or of dreaming.

But now that all was over, every one knew that it was time to turn over a new leaf; and Tom,
with his sore heart, did it with a vengeance, and on the first instance of carelessness, fell
on the poor family pet, as a younger brother and legitimate souffre douleur, with vehemence
proportioned to his own annoyance.  It was a fierce lecture upon general listlessness, want
of manliness, spirit, and perseverance, indifference to duties he had assumed.  Nonsense about
feelings--a fellow was not worth the snap of a finger who could not subdue his feelings--trash.

The sisters heard the storm from the drawing-room, and Gertrude grew hotly indignant, and wanted
Ethel to rush in to the rescue; but Ethel, though greatly moved, knew that female interposition
only aggravated such matters, and restrained herself and her sister till she heard Tom stride
off.  Then creeping in on tiptoe, she found the boy sitting stunned and confounded by the novelty
of the thing.

'What can it be all about, Ethel?  I never had such a slanging in my life?'

'I don't think Tom is quite well.  He had a bad headache last night.'

Then I hope--I mean, I think--he must have made it worse!  I know mine aches, as if I had been
next door to the great bell;' and he leant against his sister.

'I am afraid you really were inattentive.'

'No worse than since the heart has gone out of everything.  But that was not all!  Ethel, can
it really be a disgrace, and desertion, and all that, if I don't go on with those volunteers,
when it makes me sick to think of touching my rifle?' and his eyes filled with tears.

'It would be a great effort, I know,' said Ethel, smoothing his hair; 'but after all, you volunteered
not for pleasure, but because your country wanted defence.'

'The country?  I don't care for it, since it condemned him, when he was serving it.'

'He would not say that, Aubrey!  He would only be vexed to hear that you gave in, and were
fickle to your undertaking.  Indeed, if I were the volunteer, I should think it due to him,
not to shrink as if I were ashamed of what he was connected with.'

Aubrey tried to answer her sweet high-spirited smile, but he had been greatly hurt and distressed,
and the late reproach to his manhood embittered his tears without making it easier to repress
them; and pushing away his chair, he darted up-stairs.

'Poor dear fellow!  I've been very hard on him, and only blamed instead of comforting,' thought
Ethel sadly, as she slowly entered the passage, 'what shall I think of, to make a break for
both of those two?'

'So you have been cockering your infant,' said Tom, meeting her. 'You mean to keep him a baby
all his life.'

'Tom, I want to talk to you,' said she.

In expectation of her displeasure, he met it half way, setting his back against the passage
wall, and dogmatically declaring, 'You'll be the ruin of him if you go on in this way!  How
is he ever to go through the world if you are to be always wiping his tears with an embroidered
pocket-handkerchief, and cossetting him up like a blessed little sucking lamb?'

'Of course he must rough it,' said Ethel, setting her back against the opposite wall; 'I only
want him to be hardened; but after a shock like this, one cannot go on as if one was a stock
or stake.  Even a machine would have its wheels out of order--'

'Well, well, but it is time that should be over.'

'So it is;' and as the sudden thought flashed on her, 'Tom, I want you to reconsider your journey,
that you gave up in the spring, and take him--'

'I don't want to go anywhere,' he wearily said.

'Only it would be so good for him,' said Ethel earnestly; 'he really ought to see something
taller than the Minster tower, and you are the only right person to take him, you are so kind
to him.'

'For instance?' he said, smiling.

'Accidents will happen in the best regulated families; besides, he did want shaking up.  I
dare say he will be the better for it. There's the dinner-bell.'

To her surprise, she found his arm round her waist, and a kiss on her brow.  'I thought I should
have caught it,' he said; 'you are not half a fool of a sister after all.'

Aubrey was not in the dining-room; and after having carved, Tom, in some compunction, was going
to look for him, when he made his appearance in his uniform.

'Oho!' said the Doctor, surprised.

'There's to be a grand parade with the Whitford division,' he answered; and no more was said.

Not till the eight o'clock twilight of the dripping August evening did the family reassemble.
Ethel had been preparing for a journey that Mary and Gertrude were to make to Maplewood; and
she did not come down till her father had returned, when following him into the drawing-room,
she heard his exclamation, 'Winter again!'

For the fire was burning, Tom was sitting crumpled over it, with his feet on the fender, and
his elbows on his knees, and Aubrey in his father's arm-chair, his feet over the side, so fast
asleep that neither entrance nor exclamation roused him; the room was pervaded with an odour
of nutmeg and port wine, and a kettle, a decanter, and empty tumblers told tales.  Now the
Doctor was a hardy and abstemious man, of a water-drinking generation; and his wife's influence
had further tended to make him--indulgent as he was--scornful of whatever savoured of effeminacy
or dissipation, so his look and tone were sharp, and disregardful of Aubrey's slumbers.

'We got wet through,' said Tom; 'he was done up, had a shivering fit, and I tried to prevent
mischief.'

'Hm! said the Doctor, not mollified.  'Cold is always the excuse. But another time don't teach
your brother to make this place like a fast man's rooms.'

Ethel was amazed at Tom's bearing this so well.  With the slightest possible wrinkle of the
skin of his forehead, he took up the decanter and carried it off to the cellaret.

'How that boy sleeps!' said his father, looking at him.

'He has had such bad nights!' said Ethel.  'Don't be hard on Tom, he is very good about such
things, and would not have done it without need. He is so careful of Aubrey!'

'Too careful by half,' said the Doctor, smiling placably as his son returned.  'You are all
in a league to spoil that youngster.  He would be better if you would not try your hand on
his ailments, but would knock him about.'

'I never do that without repenting it,' said Tom; then, after a pause, 'It is not spirit that
is wanting, but you would have been frightened yourself at his state of exhaustion.'

'Of collapse, don't you mean?' said the Doctor, with a little lurking smile.  'However, it
is vexatious enough; he had been gaining ground all the year, and now he is regularly beaten
down again.'

'Suppose I was to take him for a run on the Continent?'

'What, tired of the hospital?'

'A run now and then is duty, not pleasure,' replied Tom, quietly; while Ethel burnt to avert
from him these consequences of his peculiar preference for appearing selfish.

'So much for railway days!  That will be a new doctrine at Stoneborough.  Well, where do you
want to go?'

'I don't want to go anywhere.'

Ethel would not have wondered to see him more sullen than he looked at that moment.  It was
lamentable that those two never could understand each other, and that either from Tom's childish
faults, his resemblance to his grandfather, or his habitual reserve, Dr. May was never free
from a certain suspicion of ulterior motives on his part.  She was relieved at the influx of
the rest of the party, including Richard; and Aubrey wakening, was hailed with congratulations
on the soundness of his sleep, whilst she looked at Tom with a meaning smile as she saw her
father quietly feel the boy's hand and brow.  The whole family were always nursing the lad,
and scolding one another for it.

Tom had put himself beside Ethel, under the shade of her urn, and she perceived that he was
ill at ease, probably uncertain whether any confidences had been bestowed on her or Mary from
the other side. There was no hope that the topic would be avoided, for Richard began with inquiries
for Averil.

'She is working herself to death,' said Mary, sadly; 'but she says it suits her.'

'And it does,' said the Doctor; 'she is stronger every day.  There is nothing really the matter
with her.'

'Contrary blasts keep a ship upright,' said Gertrude, 'and she has them in abundance.  We found
her in the midst of six people, all giving diametrically opposite advice.'

'Dr. Spencer was really helping, and Mr. Wright was there about his own affairs,' said Ethel,
in a tone of repression.

'And Mrs. Ledwich wanted her to settle on the Ohio to assist the runaway slaves,' continued
Gertrude.

'It does not tease her as if she heard it,' said Mary.

'No,' said the Doctor, 'she moves about like one in a dream, and has no instinct but to obey
her brother.'

'Well, I am glad to be going,' said Daisy; 'it will be flat when all the excitement is over,
and we have not the fun of seeing Tom getting rises out of Ave Ward.'

This time Tom could not repress a sudden jerk, and Ethel silenced her sister by a hint that
such references were not nice when people were in trouble.

'By the bye,' said Aubrey, 'speaking of going away, what were you saying while I was asleep?
or was it a dream that I was looking through Tom's microscope at a rifle bullet in the Tyrol?'

'An inspiration from Tom's brew,' said the Doctor.

'Weren't you saying anything?' said Aubrey, eagerly.  'I'm sure there was something about duty
and pleasure.  Were you really talking of it?'

'Tom was, and if it is to put some substance into those long useless legs, I don't care if
you do start off.'

Aubrey flashed into a fresh being.  He had just been reading a book about the Tyrol, and Tom
not caring at all where they were to go, this gave the direction.  Aubrey rushed to borrow
a continental Bradshaw from Dr. Spencer, and the plan rapidly took form; with eager suggestions
thrown in by every one, ending with the determination to start on the next Monday morning.

'That's settled,' said Tom, wearily, when he and Ethel, as often happened, had lingered behind
the rest; 'only, Ethel, there's one thing.  You must keep your eye on the Vintry Mill, and
fire off a letter to me if the fellow shows any disposition to bolt.'

'If I can possibly find out--'

'Keep your eyes open; and then Hazlitt has promised to let me know if that cheque of Bilson's
is cashed.  If I am away, telegraph, and meantime set my father on the scent.  It may not hang
that dog himself, but it may save Leonard.'

'Oh, if it would come!'

'And meantime--silence, you know--'

'Very well;' then lingering, 'Tom, I am sure you did the right thing by Aubrey, and so was
papa afterwards.'

His brow darkened for a moment, but shaking it off he said, 'I'll do my best for your cosset
lamb, and bring him back in condition.'

'Thank you; I had rather trust him with you than any one.'

'And how is it that no one proposes a lark for you, old Ethel?' said Tom, holding her so as
to study her face.  'You look awfully elderly and ragged.'

'Oh, I'm going to be left alone with the Doctor, and that will be the greatest holiday I ever had.'

'I suppose it is to you,' said Tom, with a deep heavy sigh, perhaps glad to have some ostensible
cause for sighing.

'Dear Tom, when you are living here, and working with him--'

'Ah--h!' he said almost with disgust, 'don't talk of slavery to me before my time.  How I hate
it, and everything else!  Good night!'

'Poor Tom!' thought Ethel.  'I wish papa knew him better and would not goad him.  Will Averil
ever wake to see what she has done, and feel for him?  Though I don't know why I should wish
two people to be unhappy instead of one, and there is weight enough already.  A man, when he's
a boy, only works because he can't help it, and afterwards for what he can get by it.'

'For what he can do with it would have a worthier sound.'

'Sound or sense, it is all the same.'

'Scaffolding granted, what is the building?'

Tom apparently thought it would be working like a woman to give himself the trouble of answering;
and Ethel went on in her own mind, 'For the work's own sake--for what can be got by it--for
what can be done with it--because it can't be helped--are--these all the springs of labour
here?  Then how is work done in that solitary cell?  Is it because it can't be helped, or is
it 'as the Lord's freeman'?  And when he can hear of Aubrey's change, will he take it as out
of his love, or grieve for having been the cause?'

For the change had been working in Aubrey ever since Leonard had altered his career.  The boy
was at a sentimental age, and had the susceptibility inseparable from home breeding; his desire
to become a clergyman had been closely connected with the bright visions of the happy days
at Coombe, and had begun to wane with the first thwarting of Leonard's plans; and when the
terrible catastrophe of the one friend's life occurred, the other became alienated from all
that they had hoped to share together.  Nor could even Dr. May's household be so wholly exempt
from the spirit of the age, that Aubrey was not aware of the strivings and trials of faith
at the University.  He saw what Harvey Anderson was, and knew what was passing in the world;
and while free from all doubts, shrank boyishly from the investigations that he fancied might
excite them.  Or perhaps these fears of possible scruples were merely his self-justification
for gratifying his reluctance.

At any rate, he came home from his two months' tour, brown, robust, with revived spirits, but
bent on standing an examination for the academy at Woolwich.  He had written about it several
times before his return, and his letters were, as his father said, 'so appallingly sensible
that perhaps he would change his mind.'  But it was not changed when he came home; and Ethel,
though sorely disappointed, was convinced by her own sense as well as by Richard's prudence,
that interference was dangerous.  No one in Israel was to go forth to the wars of the Lord
save those who 'willingly offered themselves;' and though grieved that her own young knight
should be one of the many champions unwilling to come forth in the Church's cause, she remembered
the ordeal to Norman's faith, and felt that the exertion of her influence was too great a responsibility.

'You don't like this,' said Tom, after a pause.  'It is not my doing, you know.'

'No, I did not suppose it was,' said Ethel.  'You would not withhold any one in these days
of exceeding want of able clergymen.'

'I told him it would be a grief at home,' added Tom, 'but when a lad gets into that desperate
mood, he always may be a worse grief if you thwart him; and I give you credit, Ethel, you have
not pulled the curb.'

'Richard told me not.'

'Richard represents the common sense of the family when I am not at home.'

Tom was going the next day to his course of study at the London hospitals, and this--the late
afternoon--was the first time that he and his sister had been alone together.  He had been
for some little time having these short jerks of conversation, beginning and breaking off rather
absently.  At last he said, 'Do those people ever write?'

'Prisoners, do you mean?  Not for three months.'

'No--exiles.'

'Mary has heard twice.'

He held out Mary's little leathern writing-case to her.

'O, Tom!'

'It is only Mary.'

Ethel accepted the plea, aware that there could be no treason between herself and Mary, and
moreover that the letters had been read by all the family.  She turned the key, looked them
out, and standing by the window to catch the light, began to read--

'You need not be afraid, kind Mary,' wrote Averil, on the first days of her voyage; 'I am quite
well, as well as a thing can be whose heart is dried up.  I am hardened past all feeling, and
seem to be made of India-rubber.  Even my colour has returned--how I hate to see it, and to
hear people say my roses will surprise the delicate Americans. Fancy, in a shop in London I
met an old school-fellow, who was delighted to see me, talked like old times, and insisted
on knowing where we were staying.  I used to be very fond of her, but it was as if I had been
dead and was afraid she would find out I was a ghost, yet I talked quite indifferently, and
never faltered in my excuses.  When we embarked, it was no use to know it was the last of England,
where he and you and home and life were left.  How I envied the poor girl, who was crying as
if her heart would break!'

On those very words, broke the announcement of Mr. Cheviot.  Tom coolly held out his hand for
the letters, so much as a matter of course, that Ethel complied with his gesture, and he composedly
pocketed them, while she felt desperately guilty.  Mary's own entrance would have excited no
compunction, Ethel would have said that Tom wanted to hear of the voyage; but in the present
case, she could only blush, conscious that the guest recognized her sister's property, and
was wondering what business she had with it, and she was unwilling to explain, not only on
Tom's account, but because she knew that Mr. Cheviot greatly disapproved of petitioning against
the remission of capital sentences, and thought her father under a delusion.

After Tom's departure the next day, she found the letters in her work-basket, and restored
them to Mary, laughing over Mr. Cheviot's evident resentment at the detection of her doings.

'I think it looked rather funny,' said Mary.

'I beg your pardon,' said Ethel, much astonished; 'but I thought, as every one else had seen
them--'

'Tom always laughed at poor Ave.'

'He is very different now; but indeed, Mary, I am sorry, since you did not like it.'

'Oh!' cried Mary, discomfited by Ethel's apology, 'indeed I did not mean that, I wish I had
not said anything.  You know you are welcome to do what you please with all I have.  Only,'
she recurred, 'you can't wonder that Mr. Cheviot thought it funny.'

'If he had any call to think at all,' said Ethel, who was one of those who thought that Charles
Cheviot had put a liberal interpretation on Dr. May's welcome to Stoneborough.  He had arrived
after the summer holidays as second master of the school, and at Christmas was to succeed Dr.
Hoxton, who had been absolutely frightened from his chair by the commissions of inquiry that
had beset the Whichcote foundation; and in compensation was at present perched on the highest
niche sacred to conservative martyrdom in Dr. May's loyal heart.

Charles Cheviot was a very superior man, who had great influence with young boys, and was admirably
fitted to bring about the much required reformation in the school.  He came frequently to discuss
his intentions with Dr. May, and his conversation was well worth being listened to; but even
the Doctor found three evenings in a week a large allowance for good sense and good behaviour--the
evenings treated as inviolable even by old friends like Dr. Spencer and Mr. Wilmot, the fast
waning evenings of Aubrey's home life.

The rest were reduced to silence, chess, books, and mischief, except when a treat of facetious
small talk was got up for their benefit. Any attempt of the ladies to join in the conversation
was replied to with a condescending levity that reduced Ethel to her girlhood's awkward sense
of forwardness and presumption; Mary was less disconcerted, because her remarks were never
so aspiring, and Harry's wristbands sufficed her; but the never-daunted Daisy rebelled openly,
related the day's events to her papa, fearless of any presence, and when she had grown tired
of the guest's regular formula of expecting to meet Richard, she told him that the adult school
always kept Richard away in the winter evenings; 'But if you want to see him, he is always
to be found at Cocksmoor, and he would be very glad of help.'

'Did he express any such wish?' said Mr. Cheviot, looking rather puzzled.

'Oh dear, no; only I thought you had so much time on your hands.'

'Oh no--oh no!' exclaimed Mary, in great confusion, 'Gertrude did not mean--I am sure I don't
know what she was thinking of.'

And at the first opportunity, Mary, for once in her life, administered to Gertrude a richly-deserved
reproof for sauciness and contempt of improving conversation; but the consequence was a fancy
of the idle younglings to make Mary accountable for the 'infesting of their evenings,' and
as she was always ready to afford sport to the household, they thus obtained a happy outlet
for their drollery and discontent, and the imputation was the more comical from his apparent
indifference and her serene composure; until one evening when, as the bell rung, and mutterings
passed between Aubrey and Gertrude, of 'Day set,' and 'Cheviot's mountains lone,' the head
of the family, for the first time, showed cognizance of the joke, and wearily taking down his
slippered feet from their repose, said, 'Lone! yes, there's the rub!  I shall have to fix days
of reception if Mary will insist on being so attractive.'

Mary, with an instinct that she was blamed, began to be very sorry, but broke off amid peals
of merriment, and blushes that were less easily extinguished; and which caused Ethel to tell
each of the young ones privately, that their sport was becoming boy and frog work, and she
would have no more of it.  The Daisy was inclined to be restive; but Ethel told her that many
people thought this kind of fun could never be safe or delicate.  'I have always said that
it might be quite harmless, if people knew where to stop--now show me that I am right.'

And to Aubrey she put the question, whether he would like to encourage Daisy in being a nineteenth-century
young lady without reticence?

However, as Mary heard no more of their mischievous wit, Ethel was quite willing to let them
impute to herself a delusion that the schoolmaster was smitten with Mary, and to laugh with
them in private over all the ridiculous things they chose to say.

At last Flora insisted on Ethel's coming with her to make a distant call, and, as soon as they
were in the carriage, said, 'It was not only for the sake of Mrs. Copeland, though it is highly
necessary you should go, but it is the only way of ever speaking to you, and I want to know
what all this is about Mary?'

'The children have not been talking their nonsense to you!'

'No one ever talks nonsense to me--intentionally, I mean--not even you, Ethel; I wish you did.
But I hear it is all over the town. George has been congratulated, and so have I, and one does
not like contradicting only to eat it up again.'

'You always did hear everything before it was true, Flora.'

'Then is it going to be true?'

'O, Flora, can it be possible?' said Ethel, with a startled, astonished look.

'Possible!  Highly obvious and proper, as it seems to me.  The only doubt in my mind was whether
it were not too obvious to happen.'

'He is always coming in,' said Ethel, 'but I never thought it was really for that mischief!
The children only laugh about it as the most preposterous thing they can think of, for he never
speaks to a woman if he can help it.'

'That may not prevent him from wanting a good wife.'

'Wanting a wife--ay, as he would want a housekeeper, just because he has got to the proper
position for it; but is he to go and get our bonny Mary in that way, just for an appendage
to the mastership?'

'Well done, old Ethel!  I'm glad to see you so like yourself.  I remember when we thought Mrs.
Hoxton's position very sublime.'

'I never thought of positions!'

'Never!  I know that very well; and I am not thinking of it now, except as an adjunct to a
very worthy man, whom Mary will admire to the depths of her honest heart, and who will make
her very happy.'

'Yes, I suppose if she once begins to like him, that he will,' said Ethel, slowly; 'but I can't
bring myself to swallow it yet.  She has never given in to his being a bore, but I thought
that was her universal benevolence; and he says less to her than to any one.'

'Depend upon it, he thinks he is proceeding selon les regles.'

'Then he ought to be flogged!  Has he any business to think of my Mary, without falling red-hot
in love with her?  Why, Hector was regularly crazy that last half-year; and dear old Polly
is worth ever so much more than Blanche.'

'I must say you have fulfilled my desire of hearing you talk nonsense, Ethel.  Mary would never
think of those transports.'

'She deserves them all the more.'

'Well, she is the party most concerned, though she will be a cruel loss to all of us.'

'She will not go far, if--'

'Yes, but she will be the worse loss.  You simple Ethel, you don't think that Charles Cheviot
will let her be the dear family fag we have always made of her?'

'Oh no--that always was wrong.'

'And living close by, she will not come on a visit, all festal, to resume home habits.  No,
you must make up your mind, Ethel--if, as you say, if--he will be a man for monopolies, and
he will resent anything that he thinks management from you.  I suspect it is a real sign of
the love that you deny, that he has ventured on the sister of a clever woman, living close
by, and a good deal looked up to.'

'Flora, Flora, you should not make one wicked.  If she is to be happy, why can't you let me
rejoice freely, and only have her drawn off from me bit by bit, in the right way of nature?'

'I did not tell you to make you dislike it--of course not.  Only I thought that a little tact,
a little dexterity, might prevent Charles Cheviot from being so much afraid of you, as if he
saw at once how really the head of the family you are.'

'Nonsense, Flora, I am no such thing.  If I am domineering, the sooner any one sees it and
takes me down the better.  If this does come, I will try to behave as I ought, and not to mind
so Mary is happy; but I can't act, except just as the moment leads me.  I hope it will soon
be over, now you have made me begin to believe in it. I am afraid it will spoil Harry's pleasure
at home!  Poor dear Harry, what will he do?'

'When does he come?'

'Any day now; he could not quite tell when he could get away.

When they came back, and Dr. May ran out to say, 'Can you come in. Flora? we want you,' the
sisters doubted whether his excitement were due to the crisis, or to the arrival.  He hurried
them into the study, and shut the door, exulting and perplexed.  'You girls leave one no rest,'
he said.  'Here I have had this young Cheviot telling me that the object of his attentions
has been apparent.  I'm sure I did not know if it were Mab or one of you.  I thought he avoided
all alike; and poor Mary was so taken by surprise that she will do nothing but cry, and say,
"No, never;" and when I tell her she shall do as she pleases, she cries the more; or if I ask
her if I am to say Yes, she goes into ecstasies of crying!  I wish one of you would go up,
and see if you can do anything with her.'

'Is he about the house?' asked Flora, preparing to obey.

'No--I was obliged to tell him that she must have time, and he is gone home.  I am glad he
should have a little suspense--he seemed to make so certain of her.  Did he think he was making
love all the time he was boring me with his gas in the dormitories?  I hope she will serve
him out!'

'He will not be the worse for not being a lady's man,' said Flora, at the door.

But in ten minutes, Flora returned with the same report of nothing but tears; and she was obliged
to leave the party to their perplexity, and drive home; while Ethel went in her turn to use
all manner of pleas to her sister to cheer up, know her own mind, and be sure that they only
wished to guess what would make her happiest.  To console or to scold were equally unsuccessful,
and after attempting all varieties of treatment, bracing or tender, Ethel found that the only
approach to calm was produced by the promise that she should be teased no more that evening,
but be left quite alone to recover, and cool her burning eyes and aching head.  So, lighting
her fire, shaking up a much-neglected easy-chair, bathing her eves, desiring her not to come
down to tea, and engaging both that Gertrude should not behold her, and that papa would not
be angry, provided that she tried to know what she really wished, and be wiser on the morrow,
Ethel left her.  The present concern was absolutely more to persuade her to give an answer
of some sort, than what that answer should be. Ethel would not wish; Dr. May had very little
doubt; and Gertrude, from whom there was no concealing the state of affairs, observed, 'If
she cries so much the first time she has to know her own mind, it shows she can't do without
some one to do it for her.'

The evening passed in expeditions of Ethel's to look after her patient, and in desultory talk
on all that was probable and improbable between Dr. May and the younger ones, until just as
Ethel was coming down at nine o'clock with the report that she had persuaded Mary to go to
bed, she was startled by the street door being opened as far as the chain would allow, and
a voice calling, 'I say, is any one there to let me in?'

'Harry!  O, Harry! I'm coming;' and she had scarcely had time to shut the door previous to
taking down the chain, before the three others were in the hall, the tumult of greetings breaking
forth.

'But where's Polly?' he asked, as soon as he was free to look round them all.

'Going to bed with a bad headache,' was the answer, with which Daisy had sense enough not to
interfere; and the sailor had been brought into the drawing-room, examined on his journey,
and offered supper, before he returned to the charge.

'Nothing really the matter with Mary, I hope?'

'Oh! no--nothing.'

'Can't I go up and see her?'

'Not just at present,' said Ethel.  'I will see how she is when she is in bed, but if she is
going to sleep, we had better not disturb her.'

'Harry thinks she must sleep better for the sight of him,' said the Doctor; 'but it is a melancholy
business.--Harry, your nose is out of joint.'

'Who is it?' said Harry, gravely.

'Ah! you have chosen a bad time to come home.  We shall know no comfort till it is over.'

'Who?' cried Harry; 'no nonsense, Gertrude, I can't stand guessing.'

This was directed to Gertrude, who was only offending by pursed lips and twinkling eyes, because
he could not fall foul of his father. Dr. May took pity, and answered at once.

'Cheviot!' cried Harry.  'Excellent!  He always did know how to get the best of everything.
Polly turning into a Mrs. Hoxton.  Ha! ha! Well, that is a relief to my mind.'

'You did look rather dismayed, certainly.  What were you afraid of?'

'Why, when that poor young Leonard Ward's business was in the papers, a messmate of mine was
asked if we were not all very much interested, because of some attachment between some of us.
I thought he must mean me or Tom, for I was tremendously smitten with that sweet pretty girl,
and I used to be awfully jealous of Tom, but when I heard of Mary going to bed with a headache,
and that style of thing, I began to doubt, and I couldn't stand her taking up with such a dirty
little nigger as Henry Ward was at school.'

'I think you might have known Mary better!' exclaimed Gertrude.

'And it's not Tom either?' he asked.

'Exactly the reverse,' laughed his father.

'Well, Tom is a sly fellow, and he had a knack of turning up whenever one wanted to do a civil
thing by that poor girl.  Where is she now?'

'At New York.'

'They'd better take care how they send me to watch the Yankees, then.'

'Your passion does not alarm me greatly,' laughed the Doctor.  'I don't think it ever equalled
that for the reigning ship.  I hope there's a vacancy in that department for the present, and
that we may have you at home a little.'

'Indeed, sir, I'm afraid not,' said Harry.  'I saw Captain Gordon at Portsmouth this morning,
and he tells me he is to go out in the Clio to the Pacific station, and would apply for me
as his first lieutenant, if I liked to look up the islands again.  So, if you have any commissions
for Norman, I'm your man.

'And how soon?'

'Uncertain--but Cheviot and Mary must settle their affairs in good time; I've missed all the
weddings in the family hitherto, and won't be balked of Polly's.  I say, Ethel, you can't mean
me not to go and wish her joy.'

'We are by no means come to joy yet,' said Ethel; 'poor Mary is overset by the suddenness of
the thing.'

'Why, I thought it was all fixed.'

'Nothing less so,' said the Doctor.  'One would think it was a naiad that had had an offer
from the mountains next, for she has been shedding a perfect river of tears ever since; and
all that the united discernment of the family has yet gathered is, that she cries rather more
when we tell her she is right to say No than when we tell her she is right to say Yes.'

'I declare, Ethel, you must let me go up to her.'

'But, Harry, I promised she should hear no more about it to-night. You must say nothing unless
she begins.'

And thinking a quiet night's rest, free from further excitement, the best chance of a rational
day, Ethel was glad that her mission resulted in the report, 'Far too nearly asleep to be disturbed;'
but on the way up to bed, soft as Harry's foot-falls always were, a voice came down the stairs,
'That's Harry!  Oh, come!' and with a face of triumph turned back to meet Ethel's glance of
discomfited warning, he bounded up, to be met by Mary in her dressing-gown.  'O, Harry, why
didn't you come?' as she threw her arms round his neck.

'They wouldn't let me.'

'I did think I heard you; but when no one came I thought it was only Richard, till I heard
the dear old step, and then I knew.  O, Harry!' and still she gasped, with her head on his
shoulder.

'They said you must be quiet.'

'O Harry! did you hear?'

'Yes, indeed,' holding her closer, 'and heartily glad I am; I know him as well as if I had
sailed with him, and I could not wish you in better hands.'

'But--O, Harry dear--' and there was a struggle with a sob between each word, 'indeed--I won't--mind
if you had rather not.'

'Do you mean that you don't like him?'

'I should see him, you know, and perhaps he would not mind--he could always come and talk to
papa in the evenings.'

'And is that what you want to put a poor man off with, Mary?'

'Only--only--if you don't want me to--'

'I not want you to--?  Why, Mary, isn't it the very best thing I could want for you?  What
are you thinking about?'

'Don't you remember, when you came home after your wound, you said I--I mustn't--' and she
fell into such a paroxysm of crying that he had quite to hold her up in his arms, and though
his voice was merry, there was a moisture on his eyelashes.  'Oh, you Polly!  You're a caution
against deluding the infant mind!  Was that all?  Was that what made you distract them all?
Why not have said so?'

'Oh, never!  They would have said you were foolish.'

'As I was for not knowing that you wouldn't understand that I only meant you were to wait till
the right one turned up.  Why, if I had been at Auckland, would you have cried till I came home?'

'Oh, I'm sorry I was silly!  But I'm glad you didn't mean it, dear Harry!' squeezing him convulsively.

'There!  And now you'll sleep sound, and meet them as fresh as a fair wind to-morrow.  Eh?'

'Only please tell papa I'm sorry I worried him.'

'And how about somebody else, Mary, whom you've kept on tenter-hooks ever so long?  Are you
sure he is not walking up and down under the limes on the brink of despair?'

'Oh, do you think--? But he would not be so foolish!'

'There now, go to sleep.  I'll settle it all for you, and I shan't let any one say you are
a goose but myself.  Only sleep, and get those horrid red spots away from under your eyes,
or perhaps he'll repent his bargain, said Harry, kissing each red spot.  'Promise you'll go
to bed the instant I'm gone.'

'Well,' said Dr. May, looking out of his room, 'I augur that the spirit of the flood has something
to say to the spirit of the fell.'

'I should think so!  Genuine article--no mistake.'

'Then what was all this about?'

'All my fault.  Some rhodomontade of mine about not letting her marry had cast anchor in her
dear little ridiculous heart, and it is well I turned up before she had quite dissolved herself
away.'

'Is that really all?'

'The sum total of the whole, as sure as--' said Harry, pausing for an asseveration, and ending
with 'as sure as your name is Dick May;' whereat they both fell a-laughing, though they were
hardly drops of laughter that Harry brushed from the weather-marked pucker in the comer of
his eyes; and Dr. May gave a sigh of relief, and said, 'Well, that's right!'

'Where's the latch-key?  I must run down and put Cheviot out of his misery.'

'It is eleven o'clock, he'll be gone to bed.'

'Then I would forbid the banns.  Where does he hang out?  Has he got into old Hoxton's?'

'No, it is being revivified.  He is at Davis's lodgings.  But I advise you not, a little suspense
will do him good.'

'One would think you had never been in love,' said Harry, indignantly. 'At least, I can't sleep
till I've shaken hands with the old fellow. Good night, father.  I'll not be long.'

He kept his word, and the same voice greeted him out of the dressing-room: 'How was the spirit
of the fell?  Sleep'st thou, brother?'

'Brother, nay,' answered Harry, 'he was only looking over Latin verses! He always was a cool hand.'

'The spirit of the Fell--Dr. Fell, with a vengeance,' said Dr. May. 'I say, Harry, is this
going to be a mere business transaction on his part?  Young folks have not a bit of romance
in these days, and one does not know where to have them; but if I thought--'

'You may be sure of him, sir,' said Harry, speaking the more eagerly because he suspected the
impression his own manner had made; 'he is thoroughly worthy, and feels Mary's merits pretty
nearly as much as I do.  More, perhaps, I ought to say.  There's more warmth in him than shows.
I don't know that Norman ever could have gone through that terrible time after the accident,
but for the care he took of him. And that little brother of his that sailed with me in the
Eurydice, and died at Singapore--I know how he looked to his brother Charles, and I do assure
you, father, you could not put the dear Mary into safer, sounder hands, or where she could
be more prized or happier. He is coming up to-morrow morning, and you'll see he is in earnest
in spite of all his set speeches.  Good night, father; I am glad to be in time for the last
of my Polly.'

This was almost the only moment at which Harry betrayed a consciousness that his Polly was
less completely his own.  And yet it seemed as if it must have been borne in on him again and
again, for Mary awoke the next morning as thoroughly, foolishly, deeply in love as woman could
be, and went about comporting herself in the most comically commonplace style, forgetting and
neglecting everything, not hearing nor seeing, making absurd mistakes, restless whenever Mr.
Cheviot was not present, and then perfectly content if he came to sit by her, as he always
did; for his courtship--now it had fairly begun--was equally exclusive and determined.  Every
day they walked or rode together, almost every evening he came and sat by her, and on each
holiday they engrossed the drawing-room, Mary looking prettier than she had ever been seen
before; Aubrey and Gertrude both bored and critical; Harry treating the whole as a pantomime
got up for his special delectation, and never betokening any sense that Mary was neglecting
him.  It was the greatest help to Ethel in keeping up the like spirit, under the same innocent
unconscious neglect from the hitherto devoted Mary, who was only helpful in an occasional revival
of mechanical instinct in lucid intervals, and then could not be depended on.  To laugh good-naturedly
and not bitterly, to think the love-making pretty and not foolish, to repress Gertrude's saucy
scorn, instead of encouraging it, would have been far harder without the bright face of the
brother who generously surrendered instead of repining.

She never told herself that there was no proportion between the trials, not only because her
spirits still suffered from the ever-present load of pity at her heart, nor because the loss
would be hourly to her, but also because Charles Cheviot drew Harry towards him, but kept her
at a distance, or more truly laughed her down.  She was used to be laughed at; her ways had
always been a matter of amusement to her brothers, and perhaps it was the natural assumption
of brotherhood to reply to any suggestion or remark of hers with something intended for drollery,
and followed with a laugh, which, instead of as usual stirring her up to good-humoured repartee,
suppressed her, and made her feel foolish and awkward.  As to Flora's advice, to behave with
tact, she could not if she would, she would not if she could; in principle she tried to acquiesce
in a man's desire to show that he meant to have his wife to himself, and in practice she accepted
his extinguisher because she could not help it.

Mr. Cheviot was uneasy about the chances of Aubrey's success in the examination at Woolwich,
and offered assistance in the final preparation; but though Aubrey willingly accepted the proposal,
two or three violent headaches from over-study and anxiety made Dr. May insist on his old regimen
of entire holiday and absence of work for the last week; to secure which repose, Aubrey was
sent to London with Harry for a week's idleness and the society of Tom, who professed to be
too busy to come home even for Christmas.  Mr. Cheviot's opinion transpired through Mary, that
it was throwing away Aubrey's only chance.

In due time came the tidings that Aubrey had the second largest number of marks, and had been
highly commended for the thoroughness of his knowledge, so different from what had been only
crammed for the occasion.  He had been asked who had been his tutor, and had answered, 'His
brother,' fully meaning to spare Ethel publicity; and she was genuinely thankful for having
been shielded under Tom's six months of teaching.  She heartily wished the same shield would
have availed at home, when Charles Cheviot gave that horrible laugh, and asked her if she meant
to stand for a professor's chair.  She faltered something about Tom and mathematics.  'Ay,
ay,' said Charles; 'and these military examinations are in nothing but foreign languages and
trash;' and again he laughed his laugh, and Mary followed his example.  Ethel would fain have
seen the fun.

'Eh, Cheviot, what two of a trade never agree?' asked Dr. May, in high glory and glee.

'Not my trade, papa,' said Ethel, restored by his face and voice, 'only the peculiarity of
examiners, so long ago remarked by Norman, of only setting questions that one can answer.'

'Not your trade, but your amateur work!' said Mr. Cheviot, again exploding, and leaving Ethel
to feel demolished.  Why, she wondered presently, had she not held up her knitting, and merrily
owned it for her trade--why, but because those laughs took away all merriment, all presence
of mind, all but the endeavour not to be as cross as she felt. Was this systematic, or was
it only bad taste?

The wedding was fixed for Whitsuntide; the repairs and drainage necessitating early and long
holidays; and the arrangements gave full occupation.  Mary was the first daughter who had needed
a portion, since Mr. Cheviot was one of a large family, and had little of his own. Dr. May
had inherited a fair private competence, chiefly in land in and about the town, and his professional
gains, under his wife's prudent management, had been for the most part invested in the like
property. The chief of his accumulation of ready money had been made over to establish Richard
at Cocksmoor; and though living in an inexpensive style, such as that none of the family knew
what it was to find means lacking for aught that was right or reasonable, there was no large
amount of capital available.  The May custom had always been that the physician should inherit
the landed estate; and though this was disproportionately increased by the Doctor's own acquisitions,
yet the hold it gave over the town was so important, that he was unwilling it should be broken
up at his death, and wished to provide for his other children by charges on the rents, instead
of by sale and division.  All this he caused Richard to write to Tom, for though there was
no absolute need of the young man's concurrence in arranging Mary's settlements, it was a good
opportunity for distinctly stating his prospects, and a compliment to consult him.

Feeling that Tom had thus been handsomely dealt with, his letter to his father was the greater
shock, when, after saying that he doubted whether he could come home for the wedding, he expressed
gratitude for the opening held out to him, but begged that precedents applicable to very different
circumstances might not be regarded as binding.  He was distressed at supplanting Richard,
and would greatly prefer the property taking its natural course.  It would be so many years,
he trusted, before there would be room for his services, even as an assistant, at Stoneborough,
that he thought it would be far more advisable to seek some other field; and his own desire
would be at once to receive a younger son's share, if it were but a few hundreds, and be free
to cut out his own line.

'What is he driving at, Ethel?' asked the Doctor, much vexed.  'I offer him what any lad should
jump at; and he only says, "Give me the portion of goods that falleth to me."  What does that
mean?'

'Not prodigality,' said Ethel.  'Remember what Sir Matthew Fleet said to Dr. Spencer--"Dick's
ability and common sense besides."'

'Exactly what makes me suspicious of his coming the disinterested over me.  There's something
behind!  He is running into debt and destruction among that precious crew about the hospitals.'

'Harry saw nothing wrong, and thought his friends in good style.'

'Every one is in good style with Harry, happy fellow!  He is no more a judge than a child of
six years old--carries too much sunshine to see shades.'

'A lieutenant in the navy can hardly be the capital officer that our Harry is without some
knowledge of men and discipline.'

'I grant you, on his own element; but on shore he goes about in his holiday spectacles, and
sees a bird of paradise in every cock-sparrow.'

'Isn't there a glass house that can sometimes make a swan?' said Ethel, slyly touching her
father's spectacles; 'but with you both, there's always a something to attract the embellishing
process; and between Harry and Aubrey, Dr. Spencer and Sir Matthew, we could hardly fail to
have heard of anything amiss.'

'I don't like it.'

'Then it is hard,' said Ethel, with spirit.  'So steady as he has always been, he ought to
have the benefit of a little trust.'

'He was never like the others; I don't know what to be at with him! I should not have minded
but for that palaver about elder brothers.'

Defend as Ethel might, it was still with a misgiving lest disappointment should have taken
a wrong course.  It was hard to trust where correspondence was the merest business scrap, and
neither Christmas nor the sister's marriage availed to call Tom home; and though she had few
fears as to dissipation, she did dread hardening and ambition, all the more since she had learnt
that Sir Matthew Fleet was affording to him a patronage unprecedented from that quarter.

No year of Etheldred May's life had been so trying as this last.  It seemed like her first
step away from the aspirations of youth, into the graver fears of womanhood.  With all the
self-restraint that she had striven to exercise at Coombe, it had been a time of glorious dreams
over the two young spirits who seemed to be growing up by her side to be faithful workers,
destined to carry out her highest visions; and the boyish devotion of the one, the fraternal
reverence of the other, had made her very happy.  And now?  The first disappointment in Leonard
had led--not indeed to less esteem for him, but to that pitying veneration that could only
be yielded by a sharing in spirit of the like martyrdom; a continued thankfulness and admiration,
but a continual wringing of the heart.  And her own child and pupil, Aubrey, had turned aside
from the highest path; and in the unavowed consciousness that he was failing in the course
he had so often traced out with her, and that all her aid and ready participation in his present
interests were but from her outward not her inward heart, he had never argued the point with
her, never consulted her on his destination.  He had talked only to his father of his alteration
of purpose, and had at least paid her the compliment of not trying to make her profess that
she was gratified by the change.  In minor matters, he depended on her as much as ever; but
Harry was naturally his chief companion, and the prime of his full and perfect confidence had
departed, partly in the step from boy to man, but more from the sense that he was not fulfilling
the soldiership he had dreamt of with her, and that he had once led her to think his talents
otherwise dedicated.  She had few fears for his steadiness, but she had some for his health,
and he was something taken away from her--a brightness had faded from his image.

And this marriage--with every effort at rejoicing and certainty of
Mary's present bliss and probability of future happiness, it was the
loss of a sister, and not the gain of a brother, and Mr. Cheviot did
his utmost to render the absence of repining a great effort of
unselfishness.  And even with her father, her possession of Tom's
half-revealed secret seemed an impairing of absolute confidence; she
could not but hope that her father did her brother injustice, and in
her tenderness towards them both this was a new and painful sensation.
Her manner was bright and quaint as ever, her sayings perhaps less
edged than usual, because the pain at her heart made her guard her
tongue; but she had begun to feel middle-aged, and strangely lonely.
Richard, though always a comfort, would not have entered into her
troubles; Harry, in his atmosphere of sailor on shore, had nothing of
the confidant, and engrossed his father; Mary and Aubrey were both gone
from her, and Gertrude was still a child. She had never so longed after
Margaret or Norman.  But at least her corner in the Minster, her table
at home with her Bible and Prayer-Book, were still the same, and
witnessed many an outpouring of her anxiety, many a confession of the
words or gestures that she had felt to have been petulant, whether
others had so viewed them or not.
                                                    LONGFELLOW

'Sister, sister! who is it?  Going to be married!  Oh, do tell us!' cried Ella Warden--as she
now was called--capering round her elder sister, who stood beneath a gas-burner, in a well-furnished
bed-room, reading a letter, its enclosure clasped within a very trembling hand.

'Mary May, dear Mary,' answered Averil, still half absently.

'And who?'

'Mr. Cheviot,' said Averil, thoroughly rousing herself, and, with a quick movement, concealing
the enclosure in her bosom.  'I remember him; he was very good, when--'

And there she paused; while Ella chattered on: 'Oh, sister, if you were but at home, you would
be a bridesmaid now, and perhaps we should. Little Miss Rivers was Mrs. Ernescliffe's bridesmaid.
Don't you remember, Minna, how we saw her in her little cashmere cloak?'

'Oh, don't, Ella!' escaped from Minna, like a cry of pain, as she leant back in a rocking-chair,
and recollected who had held her up in his arms to watch Blanche May's wedding procession.

'And how soon will she be married, sister, and where will she live?' asked the much-excited Ella.

'She will be married in Whitsun week, and as he is headmaster, they will live in Dr. Hoxton's
house.  Dear, good Mary, how glad I am that she is so full of happiness--her letter quite brims
over with it!  I wonder if I may work anything to send her.'

'I should like to send her some very beautiful thing indeed,' cried Ella, with emphasis, and
eyes dilating at some visionary magnificence.

'Ah, I have nothing to send her but my love!  And I may send her that still,' said Minna, looking
up wistfully at Averil, who bent down and kissed her.

'And Ave won't let me send mine to Mr. Tom, though I'm sure I do love him the best of them
all,' said Ella.

'That wasn't--' half whispered Minna, but turned her head away, with a sigh of oppression and
look of resignation, sad in so young a child, though, indeed, the infantine form was fast shooting
into tall, lank girlhood.  Ella went on: 'I shall send him the objects for his microscope,
when I get into the country; for I promised, so sister can't prevent me.'

'Oh, the country!--when shall we go there?' sighed Minna.

'Your head aches to-night, my dear,' said Averil, looking anxiously at her listless attitude,
half-opened eyes, and the deep hollows above her collar-bones.

'It always does after the gas is lighted,' said the child, patiently, 'it is always so hot here.'

'It is just like being always in the conservatory at the Grange,' added Ella.  'I do hate this
boarding-house.  It is very unkind of Henry to keep us here--fifteen weeks now.'

'Oh, Ella,' remonstrated Minna, 'you mustn't say that!'

'But I shall say it,' retorted Ella. 'Rosa Willis says what she pleases, and so shall I.  I
don't see the sense of being made a baby of, when every one else of our age eats all they like,
and is consulted about arrangements, and attends classes.  And sister owns she does not know
half so much as Cora!'

This regular declaration of American independence confounded the two sisters, and made Averil
recall the thoughts that had been wandering: 'No, Ella, in some things I have not learnt so
much as Cora; but I believe I know enough to teach you, and it has been a comfort to me to
keep my two little sisters with me, and not send them to be mixed up among strange girls. 
Besides, I have constantly hoped that our present way of life would soon be over, and that
we should have a home of our own again.'

'And why can't we!' asked Ella, in a much more humble and subdued voice.

'Because Henry cannot hear of anything to do.  He thought he should soon find an opening in
this new country; but there seem to be so many medical men everywhere that no one will employ
or take into partnership a man that nothing is known about; and he cannot produce any of his
testimonials, because they are all made out in his old name, except one letter that Dr. May
gave him.  It is worse for Henry than for us, Ella, and all we can do for him is not to vex
him with our grievances.

Poor Averil! her dejected, patient voice, sad soft eyes, and gentle persuasive manner, were
greatly changed from those of the handsome, accomplished girl, who had come home to be the
family pride and pet; still more, perhaps, from the wilful mistress of the house and the wayward
sufferer of last summer.

'And shan't we go to live in the dear beautiful forest, as Cora Muller wishes?'

There was a tap at the door, and the children's faces brightened, though a shade passed over
Averil's face, as if everything at that moment were oppressive; but she recovered a smile of
greeting for the pretty creature who flew up to her with a fervent embrace--a girl a few years
her junior, with a fair, delicate face and figure, in a hot-house rose style of beauty.

'Father's come!' she cried.

'How glad you must be!'

'And now,' whispered the children, 'we shall know about going to Indiana.'

'He says Mordaunt is as tall as he is, and that the house is quite fixed for me; but I told
him I must have one more term, and then I will take you with me.  Ah! I am glad to see the
children in white. If you would only change that plain black silk, you would receive so much
more consideration.'

'I don't want it, Cora, thank you,' said Averil, indifferently; and, indeed, the simple mourning
she still wore was a contrast to her friend's delicate, expensive silk.

'But I want it for you,' pleaded Cora.  'I don't want to hear my Averil censured for English
hauteur, and offend my country's feelings, so that she keeps herself from seeing the best side.'

'I see a very good, very dear side of one,' said Averil, pressing the eager hand that was held
out to her, 'and that is enough for me.  I was not a favourite in my own town, and I have not
spirits to make friends here.'

'Ah! you will have spirits in our woods,' she said.  'You shall show me how you go gipsying
in England.'

'The dear, dear woods!  Oh, we must go!' cried the little girls.

'But it is going to be a town,' said Minna, gravely.

Cora laughed.  'Ah, there will be plenty of bush this many a day, Minna!  No lack of butternuts
and hickories, I promise you, nor of maples to paint the woods gloriously.'

'You have never been there?' said Averil, anxiously.

'No; I have been boarding here these two years, since father and brothers located there, but
we had such a good time when we lived at my grandfather's farm, in Ohio, while father was off
on the railway business.'

A gong resounded through the house, and Averil, suppressing a disappointed sigh, allowed Cora
to take possession of her arm, and, followed by the two children, became parts of a cataract
of people who descended the great staircase, and flowed into a saloon, where the dinner was
prepared.

Henry, with a tall, thin, wiry-looking gentleman, was entering at the same time, and Averil
found herself shaking hands with her brother's companion, and hearing him say, 'Good evening,
Miss Warden; I'm glad to meet my daughter's friend.  I hope you feel at home in our great country.'

It was so exactly the ordinary second-rate American style, that Averil, who had expected something
more in accordance with the refinement of everything about Cora, except a few of her tones,
was a little disappointed, and responded with difficulty; then, while Mr. Muller greeted her
sisters, she hastily laid her hand on Henry's arm, and said, under her breath, 'I've a letter
from him.'

'Hush!' Henry looked about with a startled eye and repressing gesture. Averil drew back, and,
one hand on her bosom, pressing the letter, and almost holding down a sob, she took her accustomed
seat at the meal. Minna, too languid for the rapidity of the movements, hardly made the exertion
of tasting food.  Ella, alert and brisk, took care of herself as effectually as did Rosa Willis,
on the opposite side of the table. Averil, all one throb of agitation, with the unread letter
lying at her heart, directed all her efforts to look, eat, and drink, as usual; happily, talking
was the last thing that was needed.

Averil had been greatly indebted to Miss Muller, who had taken pity on the helpless strangers--interested,
partly by her own romance about England, partly by their mourning dresses, dark melancholy
eyes, and retiring, bewildered manner.  A beautiful motherless girl, under seventeen--left,
to all intents and purposes, alone in New York--attending a great educational establishment,
far more independent and irresponsible than a young man at an English University, yet perfectly
trustworthy--never subject to the bevues of the 'unprotected female,' but self-reliant, modest,
and graceful, in the heterogeneous society of the boarding-house--she was a constant marvel
to Averil, and a warm friendship soon sprang up.  The advances were, indeed, all on one side;
for Ave was too sad, and oppressed with too heavy a secret, to be readily accessible; but there
was an attraction to the younger, fresher, freer nature, even in the mystery of her mournful
reserve; and the two drew nearer together from gratitude, and many congenial feelings, that
rendered Cora the one element of comfort in the boarding-house life; while Henry in vain sought
for occupation.

Cora had been left under the charge of the lady of the boarding-house, a distant connection,
while her father, who had been engaged in more various professions than Averil could ever conceive
of or remember, had been founding a new city in Indiana, at once as farmer and land-agent,
and he had stolen a little time, in the dead season, to hurry up to New York, partly on business,
and partly to see his daughter, who had communicated to him her earnest desire that her new
friends might be induced to settle near their future abode.

American meals were too serious affairs for conversation; but such as there was, was political,
in all the fervid heat of the first commencements of disunion and threatenings of civil war.
After the ladies had repaired to their saloon, with its grand ottomans, sofas, rocking-chairs,
and piano, the discussion continued among them; Cora talking with the utmost eagerness of the
tariff and of slavery, and the other topics of the day, intensely interesting, and of terrible
moment, to her country; but that country Averil had not yet learnt to feel her own, and to
her all was one dreary whirl of words, in which she longed to escape to her room, and read
her letter.  Ella had joined Rosa Willis, and the other children; but Minna, as usual, kept
under her sister's wing, and Averil could not bear to shake herself free of the gentle child.
The ladies of the boarding-house--some resident in order to avoid the arduous duties of housekeeping,
others temporarily brought thither in an interregnum of servants, others spending a winter
in the city--had grown tired of asking questions that met with the scantiest response, took
melancholy for disdain, and were all neglectful, some uncivil, to the grave, silent English
girl, and she was sitting alone, with Minna's hand in hers, as she had sat for many a weary
evening, when her brother and Mr. Muller came up together, and, sitting down on either side
of her, began to talk of the rising city of Massissauga--admirably situated--excellent water
privilege, communicating with Lake Michigan--glorious primeval forest--healthy situation--fertile
land--where a colossal fortune might be realized in maize, eighties, sections, speculations.
It was all addressed to her, and it was a hard task to give attention, so as to return a rational
answer, while her soul would fain have been clairvoyante, to read the letter in her breast.
She did perceive, at last, though not till long after the children had gone to bed, that the
project was, that the family should become the purchasers of shares, which would give them
a right to a portion of the soil, excellent at present for growing corn, and certain hereafter
to be multiplied in value for building; that Henry might, in the meantime, find an opening
for practice, but might speedily be independent of it.  It sounded promising, and it was escape--escape
from forced inaction, from an uncongenial life, from injury to the children, and it would be
with Cora, her one friend. What was the demur, and why were they consulting her, who, as Henry
knew, was ready to follow him wherever he chose to carry her?  At last came a gleam of understanding:
'Then, Doctor, you will talk it over with your sister, and give me your ultimatum;' and therewith
Mr. Muller walked away to mingle in other conversation, and Henry coming closer to his sister,
she again eagerly said, 'I have it here; you shall see it to-morrow, when I have read it.'

'It--'

'The letter.'

'How can you be so unguarded?  You have not let the children know? Take care then, I will not
have the subject revived with them.'

'But Minna--'

'It is this heated stove atmosphere.  She will soon forget if you don't keep it up, and she
will be herself when we leave this place, and it depends on you when we do that, Ave.'

'On me!' she said, with bewildered face.

And Henry, marvelling at her slowness of comprehension, made her understand that the advance
of money, for the purchase at Massissauga, must come from her means.  His own had been heavily
drained by the removal, the long period of inaction, and moreover what remained had been embarked
in shares in a company, absolutely certain to succeed, but where they were not at once available
for sale.  Averil was now of age, her property was in her own power, and could not, her brother
assured her, be better invested, than on ground certain to increase in value.  She looked at
him, confused and distressed, aware that it was too important a step to be taken without consideration,
yet unable to compose her thoughts, or recollect objections.

'Must I answer to-night?' she said.

'No, there is no need for that.  But we must close to-morrow with Muller, for it is not a chance
that will long go begging.'

'Then let me go, please, Henry,' she said, imploringly.  'I will tell you to-morrow, but I
can't now.  I don't seem to understand anything.'

It was late, and he released her, with a kind good night, though still with a sign of caution.
Cora, however, hastened to join her, and walk up the stairs with her, eagerly inquiring into
the success of the negotiation, and detailing what she had gathered from her father as to the
improvements he had been making.  She would fain have made Averil come into her bedroom to
build castles there; but this was more than could be borne, and breaking from her at last,
Averil reached her own room, not to think of Mr. Muller's project, but to cast an anxious glance
at each of the little beds, to judge whether the moment had come when that famishing hunger
might be appeased by the crumb which for these mortal hours had lain upon her craving heart--the
very first since the one on the arrival at Milbank.

Each brown head was shrouded in the coverings, the long dark fringes rested safely on the cheeks,
and Averil at length drew out the treasure, and laid it on her hand to dwell on its very sight.
The address needed to be looked at with lingering earnestness, as if it had indeed been a missive
from another world; she looked, and was tardy to unfold it, as though, now the moment was come,
the sense of being in communication with her brother must be tasted to the utmost, ere entering
on the utterances that must give pain; and when she did open the envelope, perhaps the first
sensation was disappointment--the lines were not near enough together, the writing not small
enough, to satisfy even the first glance of the yearning eye.  It was cheerful, it spoke of
good health, and full occupation, with the use of books, daily exercise, the chaplain's visits,
schooling and attendance at chapel, and of the great pleasure of having heard from her.  'And
that good Dr. May inclosed your letter in one written to me with his own hand, a kindness I
never dared to think of as possible, but which he promises to repeat.  Your letter and his
are the continual food of my thoughts, and are valued beyond all power of words.  I only hope
you knew that I have not been allowed to write sooner, and have not expected letters.' Then
came a few brief comments on her last inquiries, and entreaties that she would give him full
information of all details of their present life: 'It will carry me along with you, and I shall
live with you, both as I read, and as I dwell on it afterwards.  Do not indulge in a moment's
uneasiness about me, for I am well, and busy; every one is as kind to me as duty permits, and
Dr. May is always ready to do all in his power for me.'  There were a few affectionate words
for Henry, and 'I long to send a message to the children, but I know it is better for them
to let me drop from their minds, only you must tell me all about them; I want to know that
the dear little Minna is bright and happy again.'

No confidences, only generalities; not even any reference to the one unbroken bond of union,
the one support, except in the three scanty final words, the simplest of blessings.  It was
not satisfying; but Averil recalled, with a start, that no wonder the letter was meagre, since
it was necessarily subject to inspection; and how could the inner soul be expressed when all
must pass under strangers' eyes, who would think such feelings plausible hypocrisy in a convicted
felon. Again she took it up, to suck to the utmost all that might be conveyed in the short
commonplace sentences, and to gaze at them as if intensity of study could reveal whether the
cheerfulness were real or only assumed. Be they what they might, the words had only three weeks
back been formed by Leonard's hand, and she pressed her lips upon them in a fervent agony of
affection.

When she roused herself and turned her head, she perceived on Minna's pillow two eyes above
the bed-clothes, intently fixed on her.  Should she see, or should she not see?  She believed
that the loving heart was suffering a cruel wrong, she yearned to share all with the child,
but she was chained by the command of one brother, and by that acquiescence of the other which
to her was more than a command.  She would not see, she turned away, and made her preparations
for the night without betraying that she knew that the little one was awake, resuming the tedious
guard on the expression of her face.  But when her long kneeling had ended, and with it that
which was scarcely so much conscious intercession as the resting an intolerable load on One
who alone knew its weight, just as she darkened the room for the night, the low voice whispered,
'Ave, is it?'--

And Averil crept up to the little bed: 'Yes, Minna; he is well!  He hopes you are bright and
happy, but he says it is best you should forget him.'  The brow was cold and clammy, the little
frame chill and trembling, the arms clasped her neck convulsively.  She lifted the child into
her own bed, pressed tight to her own bosom, and though no other word passed between the sisters,
that contact seemed to soothe away the worst bitterness; and Averil slept from the stillness
enforced on her by the heed of not disturbing Minna's sleep.

