"What is the centre of this prana?  It is Alcyone.  There are other solar globes beside ours
circling around Alcyone, and we have been considering only our own solar globe of ether.  Alcyone
is the centre of the prana in which they revolve as the sun is the centre of our ether in which
the planets revolve.  As this prana has a centre around which we revolve with other solar systems,
then it must have a center of gravity.

"Then this prana is a globe.

"The prana does not then fill this material universe.  There must be yet another form of matter
rarer and finer than prana, from which prana is made, as ether is made from prana and prakriti
from ether.  Have we any other class of phenomena to explain, except vital and physical?  Yes,
there is a very important class, mental.  And here we have the explanation, if we exercise
our reason.

"These pranic globes are floating in an ocean of manasa, matter in its rarest form.

"Each atom of prana is formed from manasa, exactly as ether was formed from prana, and each
pranic atom in the universe is the centre of a manasic molecule, having an atmosphere of manasic
atoms.

"So we are not exact in giving the prakritic atom three planes or octaves of vibration.  It
has four.  You merely surround it with etheric atoms, and this is correct so far as it goes.
You only wish to explain physical problems.  But there are other problems to be explained,
problems of life and mind, and the same knowledge you have explains them as well as the others,
if you simply avail yourself of it.  That you do not consider the atom as four-fold instead
of two-fold is your own fault.  I have not told you anything you did not already know.  I have
only asked you to apply your present knowledge of physics to these problems of life and mind,
and apply your reasoning powers.

"The chording vibration in an atom of matter of

"The two planes produces Force, or phenomena

"The three planes produces Life--the silver chord

"The four planes produces Mind--the golden chord.

"You say there is no gulf between the prakritic and etheric worlds;  that it is one continuous
world;  and all its phenomena are by continuity and not impact.  That is true, but it is not
the whole truth.

"There is no gulf to cross between the prakritic and etheric worlds;  none to cross between
that and the manasic. A
child, after praying the Trisagion, said in protest: "It annoys me so much Kirileson (Kyrie Eleison)."
His mother then punished him by making fun of God. Another boy came up with Qui Tolis call a dog corrects
her aunt saying, "I never put the name of God to an animal."

Array of magical invocations This is a veritable arsenal of magical
invocations, whose effectiveness is hoped to prevent evil, free from
danger, make a good, achieving grace.

As an example of the virtue of the pleas and what can be achieved with often just say Jesus,
Mary, Joseph, who is the "Holy Trinity of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of Jesus,
Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903). A man of bad life going on through the night in front of a church in
San Francisco in Cuzco, Peru, saw lights in the cemetery and, realizing that it was a funeral, went
to the scene to witness. Suddenly he perceived that there was a throne on which Jesus was seated between
Mary and Joseph. Then along came many demons each with his book in his hand. One of them began their case
against a woman of evil life of Buenos Aires. "Jesus says the ninth, she spoke out against the death
sentence along with sudden and eternal damnation." (P. 7.) Missing the devil to go to execute
the sentence. Another demon read his book that in Chile there was another prostitute. "Jesus
spoke against her death sentence and conviction." (P. 8.) The devil ran to serve his sentence.
It presented another man accused of carrying a bad life in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same
man who stopped to witness the spectacle of the cemetery. "By going the just judge to pronounce
against him the sentence of death and damnation, Mary and Saint Joseph knelt before the Divine
Master asking for it, claiming he had often relied on their most holy name calling thereunder * *
*. " Having denied Jesus for forgiveness, begging his parents again, and seeing that failed
to soften for forgiveness, the Blessed Virgin showed his Holy Son breasts that had suckled, and
the Holy Patriarch hands showed that his work he had sustained. "(p. 8.) Jesus then pardoned by a grace
that can only be called stomach grateful. Great incentive for crime!


Chapter Six

Our Place on Earth

The next time our wise man from the east was asked to "say a few words and make his own topic,"
he spoke, perhaps, as follows:

"How large do you think the earth is?  You answer promptly, 7,912 miles in diameter.  You are
as far out of the way as you were in supposing that our sun could be a centre of gravity of
a lot of planets revolving around it and around Alcyone without being a globe of ether.  Now
that it has been mentioned, you see very clearly for yourself that it must be a solar globe
of ether.  It follows from one of your physical axioms.  When I tell you why the earth is and
must be about fifty thousand miles in diameter, you will see that it must be so, and that you
knew it all the time, but never stopped to formulate your knowledge.  You have had the knowledge
for three centuries without applying it.

"It was in 1609 that your greatest astronomer, John Kepler, announced as one of three harmonic
laws by which the universe was governed, that the squares of the times of the planets were
proportional to the cubes of their distances from the sun;  and that this law was true in physics
and everywhere.  No one of your scientists has had the wisdom to study out what it meant, and
for three centuries, for 291 years, you have repeated his words like so many parrots, instead
of using the key he gave you to unlock the mysteries of the universe.  A corollary of his law
is that the planets move in their orbits because they are impelled thereto between the two
forces, and move in a mean curve between them;  but it was not until 1896 that you discovered
that the mean between two forces is always a curve and never a straight line. And I have permission from the government. Take advantage
the great feast of black rays.

And Gillespie was explaining to his efforts to obtain such approval
and the reason the government had set for two days after the visit
of the man-mountain to the capital.  The curves resulting here are not to be measured easily, and
are so large that small segments appear straight lines;  and it was not until Carpenter demonstrated
it mathematically that any one could believe it true.

"There are two great forces in this universe.  Your grandfathers called them Centripetal and
Centrifugal forces;  your fathers called them Gravity and Apergy, names which still cling to
them; and you call them Attraction and Repulsion. Men worked at preparing
the food, while all around them others slept.

These were the poor, the slaves; many of them were persecuted by
the police and the other authorities.

"You know the meaning of this mystic phrase, 'as the squares of the distance.'  You understand
that it means the attraction at two feet is only one-fourth the attraction at one foot;  at
four feet only one-sixteenth;  at eight feet, only one sixty-fourth.

