John Henry Freese, Alfred John Church, and William Jackson Brodribb

With a Critical and Biographical Introduction and Notes by Duffield Osborne

Illustrated

1904

LIVY'S HISTORY

Of the lost treasures of classical literature, it is doubtful whether any are more to be regretted
than the missing books of Livy. That they existed in approximate entirety down to the fifth
century, and possibly even so late as the fifteenth, adds to this regret. At the same time
it leaves in a few sanguine minds a lingering hope that some unvisited convent or forgotten
library may yet give to the world a work that must always be regarded as one of the greatest
of Roman masterpieces. The story that the destruction of Livy was effected by order of Pope
Gregory I, on the score of the superstitions contained in the historian's pages, never has
been fairly substantiated, and therefore I prefer to acquit that pontiff of the less pardonable
superstition involved in such an act of fanatical vandalism. That the books preserved to us
would be by far the most objectionable from Gregory's alleged point of view may be noted for
what it is worth in favour of the theory of destruction by chance rather than by design.

Here is the inventory of what we have and of what we might have had. The entire work of Livy--a
work that occupied more than forty years of his life--was contained in one hundred and forty-two
books, which narrated the history of Rome, from the supposed landing of Æneas, through the
early years of the empire of Augustus, and down to the death of Drusus, B.C. 9. Books I-X,
containing the story of early Rome to the year 294 B.C., the date of the final subjugation
of the Samnites and the consequent establishment of the Roman commonwealth as the controlling
power in Italy, remain to us. These, by the accepted chronology, represent a period of four
hundred and sixty years. Books XI-XX, being the second "decade," according to a division attributed
to the fifth century of our era are missing. They covered seventy-five years, and brought the
narrative down to the beginning of the second Punic war. Books XXI-XLV have been saved, though
those of the fifth "decade" are imperfect. They close with the triumph of Æmilius, in 167 B.C.,
and the reduction of Macedonia to a Roman province. Of the other books, only a few fragments
remain, the most interesting of which (from Book CXX) recounts the death of Cicero, and gives
what appears to be a very just estimate of his character. We have epitomes of all the lost
books, with the exception of ten; but these are so scanty as to amount to little more than
tables of contents. Their probable date is not later than the time of Trajan. To summarize
the result, then, thirty-five books have been saved and one hundred and seven lost--a most
deplorable record, especially when we consider that in the later books the historian treated
of times and events whereof his means of knowledge were adequate to his task.

TITUS LIVIUS was born at Patavium, the modern Padua, some time between 61 and 57 B.C. Of his
parentage and early life nothing is known. It is easy to surmise that he was well born, from
his political bias in favour of the aristocratic party, and from the evident fact of his having
received a liberal education; yet the former of these arguments is not at all inconsistent
with the opposite supposition, and the latter should lead to no very definite conclusion when
we remember that in his days few industries were more profitable than the higher education
of slaves for the pampered Roman market. Niebuhr infers, from a sentence quoted by Quintilian,
that Livy began life as a teacher of rhetoric. However that may be, it seems certain that he
came to Rome about 30 B.C., was introduced to Augustus and won his patronage and favour, and
after the death of his great patron and friend retired to the city of his birth, where he died,
17 A.D. It is probable that he had fixed the date of the Emperor's death as the limit of his
history, and that his own decease cut short his task.

No historian ever told a story more delightfully. The available translations leave much to
be desired, but to the student of Latin Livy's style is pure and simple, and possesses that
charm which purity and simplicity always give. If there is anything to justify the charge of
"Patavinity," or provincialism, made by Asinius Pollio, we, at least, are not learned enough
in Latin to detect it; and Pollio, too, appears to have been no gentle critic if we may judge
by his equally severe strictures upon Cicero, Cæsar, and Sallust. This much we know: the Patavian's
heroes live; his events happen, and we are carried along upon their tide. Our sympathies, our
indignation, our enthusiasm, are summoned into being, and history and fiction appear to walk
hand in hand for our instruction and amusement. In this latter word--fiction--lies the charge
most often and most strongly made against him--the charge that he has written a story and no
more; that with him past time existed but to furnish materials "to point a moral or adorn a
tale." Let us consider to what extent this is true, and, if true, in what measure the author
has sinned by it or we have lost.

No one would claim that the rules by which scientific historians of to-day are judged should
be applied to those that wrote when history was young, when the boundaries between the possible
and the impossible were less clearly defined, or when, in fact, such boundaries hardly existed
in men's minds. In this connection, even while we vaunt, we smile. After all, how much of our
modern and so-called scientific history must strike the reasoning reader as mere theorizing
or as special pleading based upon the slenderest evidence! Among the ancients the work of the
historians whom we consider trustworthy--such writers, for instance, as Cæsar, Thucydides,
Xenophon, Polybius, and Tacitus--may be said to fall generally within Rawlinson's canons 1
and 2 of historical criticism--that is, (1) cases where the historian has personal knowledge
concerning the facts whereof he writes, or (2) where the facts are such that he may reasonably
be supposed to have obtained them from contemporary witnesses. Canon 2 might be elaborated
and refined very considerably and perhaps to advantage. It naturally includes as sources of
knowledge--first, personal interviews with contemporary witnesses; and, second, accesses to
the writings of historians whose opportunities brought them within canon 1. In this latter
case the evidence would be less convincing, owing to the lack of opportunity to cross-question,
though even here apparent lack of bias or the existence of biased testimony on both sides,
from which a judicious man might have a fair chance to extract the truth, would go far to cure
the defect.

The point, however, to which I tend is, that the portions of Livy's history from which we must
judge of his trustworthiness treat, for the most part, of periods concerning which even his
evidence was of the scantiest and poorest description. He doubtless had family records, funeral
panegyrics, and inscription--all of which were possibly almost as reliable as those of our
own day. Songs sung at festivals and handed down by tradition may or may not be held more truthful.
These he had as well; but the government records, the ancient fasti, had been destroyed at
the time of the burning of the city by the Gauls, and there is no hint of any Roman historian
that lived prior to the date of the second Punic war. Thus we may safely infer that Livy wrote
of the first five hundred years without the aid of any contemporary evidence, either approximately
complete or ostensibly reliable. With the beginning of the second Punic war began also the
writing of history. Quintus Fabius Pictor had left a work, which Polybius condemned on the
score of its evident partiality. Lucius Cincius Alimentus, whose claim to knowledge if not
to impartiality rests largely on the fact that he was captured and held prisoner by Hannibal,
also left memoirs; but Hannibal was not famous for treating prisoners mildly, and the Romans,
most cruel themselves in this respect, were always deeply scandalized by a much less degree
of harshness on the part of their enemies. Above all, there was Polybius himself, who perhaps
approaches nearer to the critical historian than any writer of antiquity, and it is Polybius
upon whom Livy mainly relies through his third, fourth, and fifth decades. The works of Fabius
and Cincius are lost. So also are those of the Lacedaemonian Sosilus and the Sicilian Silanus,
who campaigned with Hannibal and wrote the Carthaginian side of the story; nor is there any
evidence that either Polybius or Livy had access to their writings. Polybius, then, may be
said to be the only reliable source from which Livy could draw for any of his extant books,
and before condemning unqualifiedly in the cases where he deserts him and harks back to Roman
authorities we must remember that Livy was a strong nationalist, one of a people who, despite
their conquests, were essentially narrow, prejudiced, egotistical; and, thus remembering, we
must marvel that he so fully recognises the merit of his unprejudiced guide and wanders as
little as he does. All told, it is quite certain that he has dealt more fairly by Hannibal
than have Alison and other English historians by Napoleon. His unreliability consists rather
in his conclusions than in his facts, and it is unquestioned that through all the pages of
the third decade he has so told the story of the man most hated by Rome--the deadliest enemy
she had ever encountered--that the reader can not fail to feel the greatness of Hannibal dominating
every chapter.

Referring again to the criticisms made so lavishly upon Livy's story of the earlier centuries,
it is well to recall the contention of the hard-headed Scotchman Ferguson, that with all our
critical acumen we have found no sure ground to rest upon until we reach the second Punic war.
Niebuhr, on the other hand, whose German temperament is alike prone to delve or to theorize,
is disposed to think--with considerable generosity to our abilities, it appears to me--that
we may yet evolve a fairly true history of Rome from the foundation of the commonwealth. As
to the times of the kings, it is admitted that we know nothing, while from the founding of
the commonwealth to the second Punic war the field may be described as, at the best, but a
battle-ground for rival theories.

The ancient historian had, as a rule, little to do with such considerations or controversies.
In the lack of solid evidence he had only to write down the accepted story of the origin of
things, as drawn from the lips of poetry, legend, or tradition, and it was for Livy to write
thus or not at all. Even here the honesty of his intention is apparent. For much of his early
history he does not claim more than is claimed for it by many of his modern critics, while
time and again he pauses to express a doubt as to the credibility of some incident. A notable
instance of this is found in his criticism of those stories most dear to the Roman heart--the
stories of the birth and apotheosis of Romulus. On the other hand, if he has given free life
to many beautiful legends that were undoubtedly current and believed for centuries, is it heresy
to avow that these as such seem to me of more true value to the antiquary than if they had
been subjected at their historical inception to the critical and theoretical methods of to-day?
I can not hold Livy quite unpardonable even when following, as he often does, such authorities
as the Furian family version of the redemption of the city by the arms of their progenitor
Camillus, instead of by the payment of the agreed ransom, as modern writers consider proven,
while his putting of set speeches into the mouths of his characters may be described as a conventional
usage of ancient historians, which certainly added to the liveliness of the narrative and probably
was neither intended to be taken literally nor resulted in deceiving any one.

Reverting for a moment to Livy's honesty and frankness, so far as his intent might govern such
qualities, I think no stronger evidence in his favour can be found than his avowed republican
leanings at the court of Augustus and his just estimate of Cicero's character in the face of
the favour of a prince by whose consent the great orator had been assassinated. Above all,
it must have been a fearless and honest man who could swing the scourge with which he lashed
his degenerate countrymen in those stinging words, "The present times, when we can endure neither
our vices nor their remedies."

Nevertheless, and despite the facts that Livy means to be honest and that he questions much
on grounds that would not shame the repute of many of his modern critics, the charge is doubtless
true that his writings are not free from prejudice in favour of his country. That he definitely
regarded history rather as a moral agency and a lesson for the future than as an irrefutable
narrative of the past, I consider highly hypothetical; but it is probable that his mind was
not of the type that is most diligent in the close, exhaustive, and logical study so necessary
to the historian of today. "Superficial," if we could eliminate the reproach in the word, would
perhaps go far toward describing him. He is what we would call a popular rather than a scientific
writer, and, since we think somewhat lightly of such when they write on what we consider scientific
subjects, we are too apt to transfer their light repute to an author who wrote popularly at
a time when this treatment was best adapted to his audience, his aims, and the material at
his command. That he has survived through all these centuries, and has enjoyed, despite all
criticism, the position in the literature of the world which his very critics have united in
conceding to him, is perhaps a stronger commendation than any technical approval.

From the standpoint of the present work it was felt that selections aggregating seven books
would accomplish all the purposes of a complete presentation. The editors have chosen the first
three books of the first decade as telling what no one can better tell than Livy: the stories
and legends connected with the foundation and early life of Rome. Here, as I have said, there
was nothing for him to do but cut loose from all trammels and hang breathless, pen in hand,
upon the lips of tradition. None can hold but that her faithful scribe has writ down her words
with all their ancient colour, with reverence reigning over his heart; however doubts might
lurk within his brain. These books close with the restoration of the consular power, after
the downfall of the tyrannical rule of the Decemvirs, the revolution following upon the attempt
of Appius Claudius to seize Virginia, the daughter of a citizen who, rather than see his child
fall into the clutches of the cruel patrician, killed her with his own hand in the marketplace,
and, rushing into the camp with the bloody knife, caused the soldiers to revolt. The second
section comprises Books XXI-XXIV, a part of the narrative of the second Punic war, a military
exploit the most remarkable the world has ever seen.

The question who was the greatest general that ever lived has been a fruitful source of discussion,
and Alexander, Cæsar, and Napoleon have each found numerous and ardent supporters. Without
decrying the signal abilities of these chiefs, it must nevertheless be remembered that each
commanded a homogeneous army and had behind him a compact nation the most warlike and powerful
of his time. The adversaries also of the Greek and the Roman were in the one instance an effete
power already falling to pieces by its own internal weakness, and in the other, for the most
part, scattered tribes of barbarians without unity of purpose or military discipline. Even
in his civil wars Cæsar's armies were veterans, and those of the commonwealth were, comparatively
speaking, recruits. But when the reader of these pages carefully considers the story of Hannibal's
campaign in Italy, what does he find? Two nations--one Caucasian, young, warlike above all
its contemporaries, with a record behind it of steady aggrandizement and almost unbroken victory,
a nation every citizen of which was a soldier. On the other side, a race of merchants Semitic
in blood, a city whose citizens had long since ceased to go to war, preferring that their gold
should fight for them by the hands of mercenaries of every race and clime--hirelings whose
ungoverned valour had proved almost as deadly to their employers and generals as to their enemies.
Above all, the same battle had been joined before when Rome was weaker and Carthage stronger,
and Carthage had already shown her weakness and Rome her strength.

And now in this renewed war we see a young man, aided only by a little group of compatriots,
welding together army of the most heterogeneous elements--Spaniards, Gauls, Numidians, Moors,
Greeks--men of almost every race except his own. We see him cutting loose from his base of
supplies, leaving enemies behind him, to force his way through hostile races, through unknown
lands bristling with almost impassable mountains and frigid with snow and ice. We see him conquering
here, making friends and allies there, and, more wonderful than all, holding his mongrel horde
together through hardships and losses by the force of his character alone. We see him at last
descending into the plains of Italy. We see him not merely defeating but annihilating army
after army more numerous than his own and composed of better raw material. We see him, unaided,
ranging from end to end of the peninsula, none daring to meet him with opposing standards,
and the greatest general of Rome winning laurels because he knew enough to recognise his own
hopeless inferiority. All stories of reverses other than those of mere detachments may pretty
safely be set down as the exaggeration of Roman writers. Situated as was Hannibal, the loss
of one marshalled field would have meant immediate ruin, and ruin never came when he fought
in Italy. On the contrary, without supplies save what his sword could take, without friends
save what his genius and his fortune could win, he maintained his place and his superiority
not for one or for two but through fourteen years, during all which time we hear no murmur
of mutiny, no hint of aught but obedience and devotion among the incongruous and unruly elements
from which he had fashioned his invincible army; and at the end we see him leaving Italy of
his own free will, at the call of his country, to waste himself in a vain effort to save her
from the blunders of other leaders and from the penalty of inherent weakness, which only his
sword had so long warded off.

When I consider the means, the opposition, and the achievement--a combination of elements by
which alone we can judge such questions with even approximate fairness--I can not but feel
that of all military exploits this invasion of Italy, which we shall read of here, was the
most remarkable; that of all commanders Hannibal has shown himself to be the greatest. Some
of Livy's charges against him as a man are doubtless true. Avarice was in his blood; and cruelty
also, though it ill became a Roman to chide an enemy on that score. Besides, Livy himself tells
how Hannibal had sought for the bodies of the generals he had slain, that he might give them
the rites of honourable sepulture; tells it, and in the next breath relates how the Roman commander
mutilated the corpse of the fallen Hasdrubal and threw the head into his brother's camp. So,
too, his naïve explanation that Hannibal's "more than Punic perfidy" consisted mainly of ambushes
and similar military strategies goes to show, as I have said, that whatever is unjust in our
author's estimate was rather the result of the prejudiced deductions of national egotism than
of facts wilfully or carelessly distorted by partisan spite.

To the reader who bears well in mind the points I have ventured to make, I predict profit hardly
less than pleasure in these pages; for Livy is perhaps the only historian who may be said to
have been honest enough to furnish much of the material for criticism of himself, and to be,
to a very considerable extent, self-adjusting.

DUFFIELD OSBORNE. That the republican historian was no timid or time-serving flatterer of prince
or public is more than clear, while his unerring judgment of the future should bring much of
respect for his judgment of the past. When he wrote, Rome was more powerful than ever. Only
the seeds of ruin were visible, yet he already divines their full fruitage.--D. O.]

CONTENTS

BOOK I

THE PERIOD OF THE KINGS--B.C. 510

Arrival of Æneas in Italy--Ascanius founds Alba Longa--Birth of Romulus and Remus--Founding
the city--Rome under the kings--Death of Lucretia--Expulsion of the Tarquins--First consuls elected

BOOK II

THE FIRST COMMONWEALTH--B.C. 509-468

Brutus establishes the republic--A conspiracy to receive the kings into the city--Death of
Brutus--Dedication of the Capitol--Battle of Lake Regillus--Secession of the commons to the
Sacred Mount--Five tribunes of the people appointed--First proposal of an agrarian law--Patriotism
of the Fabian family--Contests of the plebeians and patricians

BOOK III

THE DECEMVIRATE--B.C. 468-446

Disturbances over the agrarian law--Cincinnatus called from his fields and made dictator--Number
of tribunes increased to ten--Decemvirs appointed--The ten tables--Tyranny of the decemvirs--Death
of Virginia--Re-establishment of the consular and tribunician power

LIVY'S ROMAN HISTORY

BOOK I[1]

THE PERIOD OF THE KINGS

To begin with, it is generally admitted that, after the taking of Troy, while all the other
Trojans were treated with severity, in the case of two, Æneas and Antenor, the Greeks forbore
to exercise the full rights of war, both on account of an ancient tie of hospitality, and because
they had persistently recommended peace and the restoration of Helen: and then Antenor, after
various vicissitudes, reached the inmost bay of the Adriatic Sea, accompanied by a body of
the Eneti, who had been driven from Paphlagonia by civil disturbance, and were in search both
of a place of settlement and a leader, their chief Pylæmenes having perished at Troy; and that
the Eneti and Trojans, having driven out the Euganei, who dwelt between the sea and the Alps,
occupied these districts. In fact, the place where they first landed is called Troy, and from
this it is named the Trojan canton. The nation as a whole is called Veneti. It is also agreed
that Æneas, an exile from home owing to a like misfortune, but conducted by the fates to the
founding of a greater empire, came first to Macedonia, that he was then driven ashore at Sicily
in his quest for a settlement, and sailing thence directed his course to the territory of Laurentum.
This spot also bears the name of Troy. When the Trojans, having disembarked there, were driving
off booty from the country, as was only natural, seeing that they had nothing left but their
arms and ships after their almost boundless wandering, Latinus the king and the Aborigines,
who then occupied these districts, assembled in arms from the city and country to repel the
violence of the new-comers. In regard to what followed there is a twofold tradition. Some say
that Latinus, having been defeated in battle, first made peace and then concluded an alliance
with Æneas; others, that when the armies had taken up their position in order of battle, before
the trumpets sounded, Latinus advanced to the front, and invited the leader of the strangers
to a conference. Thereupon a treaty was concluded between the chiefs, and mutual greetings
passed between the armies: Æneas was hospitably entertained at the house of Latinus; there
Latinus, in the presence of his household gods, cemented the public league by a family one,
by giving Æneas his daughter in marriage. This event fully confirmed the Trojans in the hope
of at length terminating their wanderings by a lasting and permanent settlement. They built
a town, which Æneas called Lavinium after the name of his wife. Shortly afterward also, a son
was the issue of the recently concluded marriage, to whom his parents gave the name of Ascanius.

Aborigines and Trojans were soon afterward the joint objects of a hostile attack. Turnus, king
of the Rutulians, to whom Lavinia had been affianced before the arrival of Æneas, indignant
that a stranger had been preferred to himself, had made war on Æneas and Latinus together.
Neither army came out of the struggle with satisfaction. Even from the outset he had viewed
with dissatisfaction the founding of a new city, and, as at that time he considered that the
Trojan power was increasing far more than was altogether consistent with the safety of the
neighbouring peoples, he readily joined his forces in alliance with the Rutulians. Æneas, to
gain the good-will of the Aborigines in face of a war so serious and alarming, and in order
that they might all be not only under the same laws but might also bear the same name, called
both nations Latins. In fact, subsequently, the Aborigines were not behind the Trojans in zeal
and loyalty toward their king Æneas. Accordingly, in full reliance on this state of mind of
the two nations, who were daily becoming more and more united, and in spite of the fact that
Etruria was so powerful, that at this time it had filled with the fame of its renown not only
the land but the sea also, throughout the whole length of Italy from the Alps to the Sicilian
Strait, Æneas led out his forces into the field, although he might have repelled their attack
by means of his fortifications. Thereupon a battle was fought, in which victory rested with
the Latins, but for Æneas it was even the last of his acts on earth. He, by whatever name laws
human and divine demand he should be called, was buried on the banks of the river Numicus:
they call him Jupiter Indiges.

Ascanius, the son of Æneas, was not yet old enough to rule; the government, however, remained
unassailed for him till he reached the age of maturity. In the interim, under the regency of
a woman--so great was Lavinia's capacity--the Latin state and the boy's kingdom, inherited
from his father and grandfather, was secured for him. Be that as it may, this Ascanius, wherever
born and of whatever mother--it is at any rate agreed that his father was Æneas--seeing that
Lavinium was over-populated, left that city, now a flourishing and wealthy one, considering
those times, to his mother or stepmother, and built himself a new one at the foot of the Alban
mount, which, from its situation, being built all along the ridge of a hill, was called Alba Longa.

There was an interval of about thirty years between the founding of Lavinium and the transplanting
of the colony to Alba Longa. Yet its power had increased to such a degree, especially owing
to the defeat of the Etruscans, that not even on the death of Æneas, nor subsequently between
the period of the regency of Lavinia, and the first beginnings of the young prince's reign,
did either Mezentius, the Etruscans, or any other neighbouring peoples venture to take up arms
against it. Peace had been concluded on the following terms, that the river Albula, which is
now called Tiber, should be the boundary of Latin and Etruscan territory. After him Silvius,
son of Ascanius, born by some accident in the woods, became king. He was the father of Æneas
Silvius, who afterward begot Latinus Silvius. By him several colonies were transplanted, which
were called Prisci Latini. From this time all the princes, who ruled at Alba, bore the surname
of Silvius. He was succeeded by Agrippa, son of Tiberinus; after Agrippa, Romulus Silvius,
having received the government from his father, became king. He was killed by a thunderbolt,
and handed on the kingdom to Aventinus, who, owing to his being buried on that hill, which
now forms part of the city of Rome, gave it its name. After him reigned Proca, who begot Numitor
and Amulius.

My opinion, however, is that the origin of so great a city and an empire next in power to that
of the gods was due to the fates. The Vestal Rea was ravished by force, and having brought
forth twins, declared Mars to be the father of her illegitimate offspring, either because she
really imagined it to be the case, or because it was less discreditable to have committed such
an offence with a god.[3] But neither gods nor men protected either her or her offspring from
the king's cruelty. The priestess was bound and cast into prison; the king ordered the children
to be thrown into the flowing river. By some chance which Providence seemed to direct, the
Tiber, having over flown its banks, thereby forming stagnant pools, could not be approached
at the regular course of its channel; notwithstanding it gave the bearers of the children hope
that they could be drowned in its water however calm. Accordingly, as if they had executed
the king's orders, they exposed the boys in the nearest land-pool, where now stands the ficus
Ruminalis, which they say was called Romularis.[4] At that time the country in those parts
was a desolate wilderness. They say that his name was Faustulus; and that they were carried
by him to his homestead and given to his wife Larentia to be brought up. Some are of the opinion
that Larentia was called Lupa among the shepherds from her being a common prostitute, and hence
an opening was afforded for the marvellous story. The children, thus born and thus brought
up, as soon as they reached the age of youth, did not lead a life of inactivity at home or
amid the flocks, but, in the chase, scoured the forests. Having thus gained strength, both
in body and spirit, they now were not only able to withstand wild beasts, but attacked robbers
laden with booty, and divided the spoils with the shepherds, in whose company, as the number
of their young associates increased daily, they carried on business and pleasure.

Even in these early times it is said that the festival of the Lupercal, as now celebrated,
was solemnized on the Palatine Hill, which was first called Pallantium, from Pallanteum, a
city of Arcadia, and afterward Mount Palatius. There Evander, who, belonging to the above tribe
of the Arcadians, had for many years before occupied these districts, is said to have appointed
the observance of a solemn festival, introduced from Arcadia, in which naked youths ran about
doing honour in wanton sport to Pan Lycæus, who was afterward called Inuus by the Romans. When
they were engaged in this festival, as its periodical solemnization was well known, a band
of robbers, enraged at the loss of some booty, lay in wait for them, and took Remus prisoner,
Romulus having vigorously defended himself: the captive Remus they delivered up to King Amulius,
and even went so far as to bring accusations against him. They made it the principal charge
that having made incursions into Numitor's lands, and, having assembled a band of young men,
they had driven off their booty after the manner of enemies. Accordingly, Remus was delivered
up to Numitor for punishment. Now from the very first Faustulus had entertained hopes that
the boys who were being brought up by him, were of royal blood: for he both knew that the children
had been exposed by the king's orders, and that the time, at which he had taken them up, coincided
exactly with that period: but he had been unwilling to disclose the matter, as yet not ripe
for discovery, till either a fitting opportunity or the necessity for it should arise. Necessity
came first. Accordingly, urged by fear, he disclosed the whole affair to Romulus.

Numitor, at the beginning of the fray, giving out that enemies had invaded the city and attacked
the palace, after he had drawn off the Alban youth to the citadel to secure it with an armed
garrison, when he saw the young men, after they had compassed the king's death, advancing toward
him to offer congratulations, immediately summoned a meeting of the people, and recounted his
brother's unnatural behaviour toward him, the extraction of his grandchildren, the manner of
their birth, bringing up, and recognition, and went on to inform them of the king's death,
and that he was responsible for it. The young princes advanced through the midst of the assembly
with their band in orderly array, and, after they had saluted their grandfather as king, a
succeeding shout of approbation, issuing from the whole multitude, ratified for him the name
and authority of sovereign. The government of Alba being thus intrusted to Numitor, Romulus
and Remus were seized with the desire of building a city on the spot where they had been exposed
and brought up. Indeed, the number of Alban and Latin inhabitants was too great for the city;
the shepherds also were included among that population, and all these readily inspired hopes
that Alba and Lavinium would be insignificant in comparison with that city, which was intended
to be built. But desire of rule, the bane of their grandfather, interrupted these designs,
and thence arose a shameful quarrel from a sufficiently amicable beginning. For as they were
twins, and consequently the respect for seniority could not settle the point, they agreed to
leave it to the gods, under whose protection the place was, to choose by augury which of them
should give a name to the new city, and govern it when built. Romulus chose the Palatine and
Remus the Aventine, as points of observation for taking the auguries.

It is said that an omen came to Remus first, six vultures; and when, after the omen had been
declared, twice that number presented themselves to Romulus, each was hailed king by his own
party, the former claiming sovereign power on the ground of priority of time, the latter on
account of the number of birds. Thus Romulus obtained possession of supreme power for himself
alone. The city, when built, was called after the name of its founder.[5] He first proceeded
to fortify the Palatine Hill, on which he himself had been brought up. He offered sacrifices
to Hercules, according to the Grecian rite, as they had been instituted by Evander; to the
other gods, according to the Alban rite. There is a tradition that Hercules, having slain Geryon,
drove off his oxen, which were of surpassing beauty,[6] to that spot: and that he lay down
in a grassy spot on the banks of the river Tiber, where he had swam across, driving the cattle
before him, to refresh them with rest and luxuriant pasture, being also himself fatigued with
journeying. There, when sleep had overpowered him, heavy as he was with food and wine, a shepherd
who dwelt in the neighbourhood, by name Cacus, priding himself on his strength, and charmed
with the beauty of the cattle, desired to carry them off as booty; but because, if he had driven
the herd in front of him to the cave, their tracks must have conducted their owner thither
in his search, he dragged the most beautiful of them by their tails backward into a cave. Hercules,
aroused from sleep at dawn, having looked over his herd and observed that some of their number
were missing, went straight to the nearest cave, to see whether perchance their tracks led
thither. When he saw that they were all turned away from it and led in no other direction,
troubled and not knowing what to make up his mind to do, he commenced to drive off his herd
from so dangerous a spot. Thereupon some of the cows that were driven away, lowed, as they
usually do, when they missed those that were left; and the lowings of those that were shut
in being heard in answer from the cave, caused Hercules to turn round. And when Cacus attempted
to prevent him by force as he was advancing toward the cave, he was struck with a club and
slain, while vainly calling upon the shepherds to assist him. At that time Evander, who was
an exile from the Peloponnesus, governed the country more by his personal ascendancy than by
absolute sway. He was a man held in reverence on account of the wonderful art of writing, an
entirely new discovery to men ignorant of accomplishments,[7] and still more revered on account
of the supposed divinity of his mother Carmenta, whom those peoples had marvelled at as a prophetess
before the arrival of the Sybil in Italy. This Evander, roused by the assembling of the shepherds
as they hastily crowded round the stranger, who was charged with open murder, after he heard
an account of the deed and the cause of it, gazing upon the personal appearance and mien of
the hero, considerably more dignified and majestic than that of a man, asked who he was. Hercules,
having given him his right hand, declared that he accepted the prophetic intimation, and would
fulfil the predictions of the fates, by building and dedicating an altar. It so happened that
the Potitii presented themselves in due time and the entrails were set before them: but the
Pinarii did not arrive until the entrails had been eaten up, to share the remainder of the
feast. From that time it became a settled institution, that, as long as the Pinarian family
existed, they should not eat of the entrails of the sacrificial victims. The Potitii, fully
instructed by Evander, discharged the duties of chief priests of this sacred function for many
generations, until their whole race became extinct, in consequence of this office, the solemn
prerogative of their family, being delegated to public slaves. These were the only religious
rites that Romulus at that time adopted from those of foreign countries, being even then an
advocate of immortality won by merit, to which the destiny marked out for him was conducting him.

The duties of religion having been thus duly completed, the people were summoned to a public
meeting: and, as they could not be united and incorporated into one body by any other means
save legal ordinances, Romulus gave them a code of laws: and, judging that these would only
be respected by a nation of rustics, if he dignified himself with the insignia of royalty,
he clothed himself with greater majesty--above all, by taking twelve lictors to attend him,
but also in regard to his other appointments. Some are of opinion that he was influenced in
his choice of that number by that of the birds which had foretold that sovereign power should
be his when the auguries were taken. I myself am not indisposed to follow the opinion of those,
who are inclined to believe that it was from the neighbouring Etruscans--from whom the curule
chair and purple-bordered toga were borrowed--that the apparitors of this class, as well as
the number itself, were introduced: and that the Etruscans employed such a number because,
as their king was elected from twelve states in common, each state assigned him one lictor.

In the meantime, the city was enlarged by taking in various plots of ground for the erection
of buildings, while they built rather in the hope of an increased population in the future,
than in view of the actual number of the inhabitants of the city at that time. Next, that the
size of the city might not be without efficiency, in order to increase the population, following
the ancient policy of founders of cities, who, by bringing together to their side a mean and
ignoble multitude, were in the habit of falsely asserting that an offspring was born to them
from the earth, he opened as a sanctuary the place which, now inclosed, is known as the "two
groves," and which people come upon when descending from the Capitol. Thither, a crowd of all
classes from the neighbouring peoples, without distinction, whether freemen or slaves, eager
for change, flocked for refuge, and therein lay the foundation of the city's strength, corresponding
to the commencement of its enlargement. Having now no reason to be dissatisfied with his strength,
he next instituted a standing council to direct that strength. He created one hundred senators,
either because that number was sufficient, or because there were only one hundred who could
be so elected. Anyhow they were called fathers[8], by way of respect, and their descendants
patricians.

By this time the Roman state was so powerful, that it was a match for any of the neighbouring
states in war: but owing to the scarcity of women its greatness was not likely to outlast the
existing generation, seeing that the Romans had no hope of issue at home, and they did not
intermarry with their neighbours. The embassy nowhere obtained a favourable hearing: but, although
the neighbouring peoples treated it with such contempt, yet at the same time they dreaded the
growth of such a mighty power in their midst to the danger of themselves and of their posterity.
In most cases when they were dismissed they were asked the question, whether they had opened
a sanctuary for women also: for that in that way only could they obtain suitable matches.

The Roman youths were bitterly indignant at this, and the matter began unmistakably to point
to open violence. Romulus in order to provide a fitting opportunity and place for this, dissembling
his resentment, with this purpose in view, instituted games to be solemnized every year in
honour of Neptunus Equester, which he called Consualia. He then ordered the show to be proclaimed
among the neighbouring peoples; and the Romans prepared to solemnize it with all the pomp with
which they were then acquainted or were able to exhibit, in order to make the spectacle famous,
and an object of expectation. Great numbers assembled, being also desirous of seeing the new
city, especially all the nearest peoples, the Caeninenses, Crustumini, and Antemnates: the
entire Sabine population attended with their wives and children. They were hospitably invited
to the different houses: and, when they saw the position of the city, its fortified walls,
and how crowded with houses it was, they were astonished that the power of Rome had increased
so rapidly. When the time of the show arrived, and their eyes and minds alike were intent upon
it, then, according to preconcerted arrangement, a disturbance was made, and, at a given signal,
the Roman youths rushed in different directions to carry off the unmarried women. A great number
were carried off at hap-hazard, by those into whose hands they severally fell: some of the
common people, to whom the task had been assigned, conveyed to their homes certain women of
surpassing beauty, who were destined for the leading senators. They say that one, far distinguished
beyond the rest in form and beauty, was carried off by the party of a certain Talassius, and
that, when several people wanted to know to whom they were carrying her, a cry was raised from
time to time, to prevent her being molested, that she was being carried to Talassius: and that
from this the word was used in connection with marriages. The festival being disturbed by the
alarm thus caused, the sorrowing parents of the maidens retired, complaining of the violated
compact of hospitality, and invoking the god, to whose solemn festival and games they had come,
having been deceived by the pretence of religion and good faith. Nor did the maidens entertain
better hopes for themselves, or feel less indignation. Romulus, however, went about in person
and pointed out that what had happened was due to the pride of their fathers, in that they
had refused the privilege of intermarriage to their neighbours; but that, notwithstanding,
they would be lawfully wedded, and enjoy a share of all their possessions and civil rights,
and--a thing dearer than all else to the human race--the society of their common children:
only let them calm their angry feelings, and bestow their affections on those on whom fortune
had bestowed their bodies. Esteem (said he) often arose subsequent to wrong: and they would
find them better husbands for the reason that each of them would endeavour, to the utmost of
his power, after having discharged, as far as his part was concerned, the duty of a husband,
to quiet the longing for country and parents. To this the blandishments of the husbands were
added, who excused what had been done on the plea of passion and love, a form of entreaty that
works most successfully upon the feelings of women.[9]

By this time the minds of the maidens were considerably soothed, but their parents, especially
by putting on the garb of mourning, and by their tears and complaints, stirred up the neighbouring
states. Nor did they confine their feelings of indignation to their own home only, but they
flocked from all quarters to Titus Tatius, king of the Sabines, and embassies crowded thither,
because the name of Tatius was held in the greatest esteem in those quarters. The Caeninenses,
Crustumini, and Antemnates were the people who were chiefly affected by the outrage. As Tatius
and the Sabines appeared to them to be acting in too dilatory a manner, these three peoples
by mutual agreement among themselves made preparations for war unaided. He routed their army
and put it to flight, followed in pursuit of it when routed, cut down their king in battle
and stripped him of his armour, and, having slain the enemy's leader, took the city at the
first assault. "Jupiter Feretrius," said he, "I, King Romulus, victorious over my foes, offer
to thee these royal arms, and dedicate to thee a temple within those quarters, which I have
just now marked out in my mind, to be a resting-place for the spolia opima, which posterity,
following my example, shall bring hither on slaying the kings or generals of the enemy." This
is the origin of that temple, the first that was ever consecrated at Rome. It was afterward
the will of the gods that neither the utterances of the founder of the temple, in which he
solemnly declared that his posterity would bring such spoils thither, should be spoken in vain,
and that the honour of the offering should not be rendered common owing to the number of those
who enjoyed it. In the course of so many years and so many wars the spolia opima were only
twice gained: so rare has been the successful attainment of this honour.[10]

While the Romans were thus engaged in those parts, the army of the Antemnates made a hostile
attack upon the Roman territories, seizing the opportunity when they were left unguarded. Against
these in like manner a Roman legion was led out in haste and surprised them while straggling
in the country. Thus the enemy were routed at the first shout and charge: their town was taken:
Romulus, amid his rejoicings at this double victory, was entreated by his wife Hersilia, in
consequence of the importunities of the captured women, to pardon their fathers and admit them
to the privileges of citizenship; that the commonwealth could thus be knit together by reconciliation.
The request was readily granted. After that he set out against the Crustumini, who were beginning
hostilities: in their case, as their courage had been damped by the disasters of others, the
struggle was less keen. Great numbers also migrated from thence to Rome, chiefly of the parents
and relatives of the women who had been carried off.

The last war broke out on the part of the Sabines, and this was by far the most formidable:
for nothing was done under the influence of anger or covetousness, nor did they give indications
of hostilities before they had actually begun them. Cunning also was combined with prudence.
Spurius Tarpeius was in command of the Roman citadel: his maiden daughter, who at the time
had gone by chance outside the walls to fetch water for sacrifice, was bribed by Tatius, to
admit some armed soldiers into the citadel. After they were admitted, they crushed her to death
by heaping their arms upon her: either that the citadel might rather appear to have been taken
by storm, or for the sake of setting forth a warning, that faith should never on any occasion
be kept with a betrayer. The following addition is made to the story: that, as the Sabines
usually wore golden bracelets of great weight on their left arm and rings of great beauty set
with precious stones, she bargained with them for what they had on their left hands; and that
therefore shields were heaped upon her instead of presents of gold. Some say that, in accordance
with the agreement that they should deliver up what was on their left hands, she expressly
demanded their shields, and that, as she seemed to be acting treacherously, she herself was
slain by the reward she had chosen for herself.

Be that as it may, the Sabines held the citadel, and on the next day, when the Roman army,
drawn up in order of battle, had occupied all the valley between the Palatine and Capitoline
Hills, they did not descend from thence into the plain until the Romans, stimulated by resentment
and the desire of recovering the citadel, advanced up hill to meet them. The chiefs on both
sides encouraged the fight, on the side of the Sabines Mettius Curtius, on the side of the
Romans Hostius Hostilius. The latter, in the front of the battle, on unfavourable ground, supported
the fortunes of the Romans by his courage and boldness. When Hostius fell, the Roman line immediately
gave way, and, being routed, was driven as far as the old gate of the Palatium. Romulus himself
also, carried away by the crowd of fugitives, cried, uplifting his arms to heaven: "O Jupiter,
it was at the bidding of thy omens, that here on the Palatine I laid the first foundations
for the city. Having offered up these prayers, as if he had felt that they had been heard,
he cried: "From this position, O Romans, Jupiter, greatest and best, bids you halt and renew
the fight." The Romans halted as if ordered by a voice from heaven. Romulus himself hastened
to the front. Mettius Curtius, on the side of the Sabines, had rushed down from the citadel
at the head of his troops and driven the Romans in disordered array over the whole space of
ground where the Forum now is. He had almost reached the gate of the Palatium, crying out:
"We have conquered our perfidious friends, our cowardly foes: now they know that fighting with
men is a very different thing from ravishing maidens." Upon him, as he uttered these boasts,
Romulus made an attack with a band of his bravest youths. Mettius then happened to be fighting
on horseback: on that account his repulse was easier. When he was driven back, the Romans followed
in pursuit: and the remainder of the Roman army, fired by the bravery of the king, routed the
Sabines. Mettius, his horse taking fright at the noise of his pursuers, rode headlong into
a morass: this circumstance drew off the attention of the Sabines also at the danger of so
high a personage. He indeed, his own party beckoning and calling to him, gaining heart from
the encouraging shouts of many of his friends, made good his escape. The Romans and Sabines
renewed the battle in the valley between the two hills: but the advantage rested with the Romans.

At this crisis the Sabine women, from the outrage on whom the war had arisen, with dishevelled
hair and torn garments, the timidity natural to women being overcome by the sense of their
calamities, were emboldened to fling themselves into the midst of the flying weapons, and,
rushing across, to part the incensed combatants and assuage their wrath: imploring their fathers
on the one hand and their husbands on the other, as fathers-in-law and sons-in-law, not to
besprinkle themselves with impious blood, nor to fix the stain of murder on their offspring,
the one side on their grandchildren, the other on their children. This incident affected both
the people and the leaders; silence and sudden quiet followed; the leaders thereupon came forward
to conclude a treaty; and not only concluded a peace, but formed one state out of two. They
united the kingly power, but transferred the entire sovereignty to Rome. Rome having thus been
made a double state, that some benefit at least might be conferred on the Sabines, they were
called Quirites from Cures. To serve as a memorial of that battle, they called the place--where
Curtius, after having emerged from the deep morass, set his horse in shallow water--the Lacus
Curtius.[11]

This welcome peace, following suddenly on so melancholy a war, endeared the Sabine women still
more to their husbands and parents, and above all to Romulus himself. Accordingly, when dividing
the people into thirty curiae, he called the curiae after their names. While the number of
the women were undoubtedly considerably greater than this, it is not recorded whether they
were chosen for their age, their own rank or that of their husbands, or by lot, to give names
to the curiae. At the same time also three centuries of knights were enrolled: the Ramnenses
were so called from Romulus, the Titienses from Titus Tatius: in regard to the Luceres, the
meaning of the name and its origin is uncertain.[12] From that time forward the two kings enjoyed
the regal power not only in common, but also in perfect harmony.

Several years afterward, some relatives of King Tatius ill-treated the Ambassadors of the Laurentines,
and on the Laurentines beginning proceedings according to the rights of nations, the influence
and entreaties of his friends had more weight with Tatius. In this manner he drew upon himself
the punishment that should have fallen upon them: for, having gone to Lavinium on the occasion
of a regularly recurring sacrifice, he was slain in a disturbance which took place there. They
say that Romulus resented this less than the event demanded, either because partnership in
sovereign power is never cordially kept up, or because he thought that he had been deservedly
slain. Accordingly, while he abstained from going to war, the treaty between the cities of
Rome and Lavinium was renewed, that at any rate the wrongs of the ambassadors and the murder
of the king might be expiated.

With these people, indeed, there was peace contrary to expectations: but another war broke
out much nearer home and almost at the city's gates. The Fidenates,[13] being of opinion that
a power in too close proximity to themselves was gaining strength, hastened to make war before
the power of the Romans should attain the greatness it was evidently destined to reach. An
armed band of youths was sent into Roman territory and all the territories between the city
and the Fidenae was ravaged. Romulus aroused by this--for a war so near home could not brook
delay--led out his army, and pitched his camp a mile from Fidenae. Having left a small garrison
there, he marched out with all his forces and gave orders that a part of them should lie in
ambush in a spot hidden amid bushes planted thickly around; he himself advancing with the greater
part of the infantry and all the cavalry, by riding up almost to the very gates, drew out the
enemy--which was just what he wanted--by a mode of battle of a disorderly and threatening nature.
The same tactics on the part of the cavalry caused the flight, which it was necessary to pretend,
to appear less surprising: and when, as the cavalry appeared undecided whether to make up its
mind to fight or flee, the infantry also retreated--the enemy, pouring forth suddenly through
the crowded gates, were drawn toward the place of ambuscade, in their eagerness to press on
and pursue, after they had broken the Roman line. Thereupon the Romans, suddenly arising, attacked
the enemy's line in flanks; the advance from the camp of the standards of those, who had been
left behind on guard, increased the panic: thus the Fidenates, smitten with terror from many
quarters, took to flight almost before Romulus and the cavalry who accompanied him could wheel
round: and those who a little before had been in pursuit of men who pretended flight, made
for the town again in much greater disorder, seeing that their flight was real. They did not,
however, escape the foe: the Romans, pressing closely on their rear, rushed in as if it were
in one body, before the doors of the gates could be shut against them.

The minds of the inhabitants of Veii,[14] being exasperated by the infectious influence of
the Fidenatian war, both from the tie of kinship--for the Fidenates also were Etruscans--and
because the very proximity of the scene of action, in the event of the Roman arms being directed
against all their neighbours, urged them on, they sallied forth into the Roman territories,
rather with the object of plundering than after the manner of a regular war. These were essentially
the chief events of the reign of Romulus, in peace and in war, none of which seemed inconsistent
with the belief of his divine origin, or of his deification after death, neither the spirit
he showed in recovering his grandfather's kingdom, nor his wisdom in building a city, and afterward
strengthening it by the arts of war and peace. For assuredly it was by the power that Romulus
gave it that it became so powerful, that for forty years after it enjoyed unbroken peace. He
was, however, dearer to the people than to the fathers: above all others he was most beloved
by the soldiers: of these he kept three hundred, whom he called Celeres, armed to serve as
a body-guard not only in time of war but also of peace.

Having accomplished these works deserving of immortality, while he was holding an assembly
of the people for reviewing his army, in the plain near the Goat's pool, a storm suddenly came
on, accompanied by loud thunder and lightning, and enveloped the king in so dense a mist, that
it entirely hid him from the sight of the assembly. After this Romulus was never seen again
upon earth. I believe that even then there were some, who in secret were convinced that the
king had been torn in pieces by the hands of the fathers--for this rumour also spread, but
it was very doubtfully received; admiration for the man, however, and the awe felt at the moment,
gave greater notoriety to the other report. Also by the clever idea of one individual, additional
confirmation is said to have been attached to the occurrence. For Proculus Julius, while the
state was still troubled at the loss of the king, and incensed against the senators, a weighty
authority, as we are told, in any matter however important, came forward into the assembly.
Therefore, although they were agreed that there should be some head, yet none could bring himself
to give way to another. Accordingly, the hundred senators divided the government among themselves,
ten decuries being formed, and the individual members who were to have the chief direction
of affairs being chosen into each decury.[17] Ten governed; one only was attended by the lictors
and with the insignia of authority: their power was limited to the space of five days, and
conferred upon all in rotation, and the interval between the government of a king lasted a
year. From this fact it was called an interregnum, a term which is employed even now. When
the fathers perceived that such schemes were on foot, thinking it advisable to offer them,
without being asked, what they were sure to lose, they conciliated the good-will of the people
by yielding to them the supreme power, yet in such a manner as to surrender no greater privilege
than they reserved to themselves. For they decreed, that when the people had chosen a king,
the election should be valid, if the senate gave the sanction of their authority. And even
to this day the same forms are observed in proposing laws and magistrates, though their power
has been taken away; for before the people begin to vote, the senators ratify their choice,
even while the result of the elections is still uncertain. Then the interrex, having summoned
an assembly of the people, addressed them as follows: "Do you, Quirites, choose yourselves
a king, and may this choice prove fortunate, happy, and auspicious; such is the will of the
fathers. Then, if you shall choose a prince worthy to be reckoned next after Romulus, the fathers
will ratify your choice." This concession was so pleasing to the people, that, not to appear
outdone in generosity, they only voted and ordained that the senate should determine who should
be king at Rome. But from these places, even had he flourished in the same age, what fame of
his could have reached the Sabines? or by what intercourse of language could it have aroused
any one to a desire of learning? Or by what safeguard could a single man have passed through
the midst of so many nations differing in language and customs? I am therefore rather inclined
to believe that his mind, owing to his natural bent, was attempered by virtuous qualities,
and that he was not so much versed in foreign systems of philosophy as in the stern and gloomy
training of the ancient Sabines, a race than which none was in former times more strict. When
they heard the name of Numa, although the Roman fathers perceived that the balance of power
would incline to the Sabines if a king were chosen from them, yet none of them ventured to
prefer himself, or any other member of his party, or, in fine, any of the citizens or fathers,
to a man so well known, but unanimously resolved that the kingdom should be offered to Numa
Pompilius. Being sent for, just as Romulus obtained the throne by the augury in accordance
with which he founded the city, so Numa in like manner commanded the gods to be consulted concerning
himself. Then he stated in set terms the auspices which he wished to be sent: on their being
sent, Numa was declared king and came down from the seat of augury.

Having thus obtained the kingdom, he set about establishing anew, on the principles of law
and morality, the newly founded city that had been already established by force of arms. Twice
only since the reign of Numa has this temple been shut: once when Titus Manlius was consul,
after the conclusion of the first Punic war; and a second time, which the gods granted our
generation to behold, by the Emperor Cæsar Augustus, after the battle of Actium, when peace
was established by land and sea. And, first of all, he divided the year into twelve months,
according to the courses of the moon;[19] and because the moon does not fill up the number
of thirty days in each month, and some days are wanting to the complete year, which is brought
round by the solstitial revolution, he so regulated this year, by inserting intercalary months,
that every twentieth year, the lengths of all the intermediate years being filled up, the days
corresponded with the same starting-point of the sun whence they had set out. He likewise divided
days into sacred and profane, because on certain occasions it was likely to be expedient that
no business should be transacted with the people. To him he added two other flamens, one for
Mars, another for Quirinus. He also placed all other religious institutions, public and private,
under the control of the decrees of the pontiff, to the end that there might be some authority
to whom the people should come to ask advice, to prevent any confusion in the divine worship
being caused by their neglecting the ceremonies of their own country, and adopting foreign
ones. He further ordained that the same pontiff should instruct the people not only in the
ceremonies connected with the heavenly deities, but also in the due performance of funeral
solemnities, and how to appease the shades of the dead; and what prodigies sent by lightning
or any other phenomenon were to be attended to and expiated. To draw forth such knowledge from
the minds of the gods, he dedicated an altar on the Aventine to Jupiter Elicius, and consulted
the god by means of auguries as to what prodigies ought to be attended to. There was a grove,
the middle of which was irrigated by a spring of running water, flowing from a dark grotto.
Gaius Cluilius at that time was in power at Alba. From both sides ambassadors were sent almost
at the same time, to demand satisfaction. Tullus had ordered his representatives to attend
to their instructions before anything else. He knew well that the Alban would refuse, and so
war might be proclaimed with a clear conscience. Their commission was executed in a more dilatory
manner by the Albans: being courteously and kindly entertained by Tullus, they gladly took
advantage of the king's hospitality. Meanwhile the Romans had both been first in demanding
satisfaction, and upon the refusal of the Alban, had proclaimed war upon the expiration of
thirty days: of this they gave Tullus notice. Thereupon he granted the Alban ambassadors an
opportunity of stating with what demands they came. This message the Albans carried home.

Preparations were made on both sides with the utmost vigour for a war very like a civil one,
in a manner between parents and children, both being of Trojan stock: for from Troy came Lavinium,
from Lavinium, Alba, and the Romans were descended from the stock of the Alban kings. However,
the result of the war rendered the quarrel less distressing, for the struggle never came to
regular action, and when the buildings only of one of the cities had been demolished, the two
states were incorporated into one. The Albans first invaded the Roman territories with a large
army. They pitched their camp not more than five miles from the city, and surrounded it with
a trench, which, for several ages, was called the Cluilian trench, from the name of the general,
till, by lapse of time, the name, as well as the event itself, was forgotten. In that camp
Cluilius, the Alban king, died: the Albans created Mettius Fufetius dictator. This circumstance
drew out Mettius from his camp: he led his forces as close as possible to the enemy; thence
he despatched a herald and commanded him to tell Tullus that a conference was expedient before
they came to an engagement; and that, if he would give him a meeting, he was certain he would
bring forward matters which concerned the interests of Rome no less than of Alba. Tullus did
not reject the offer: nevertheless, in case the proposals made should prove fruitless, he led
out his men in order of battle: the Albans on their side marched out also. After both armies
stood drawn up in battle array, the chiefs, with a few of the principal officers, advanced
into the midst. But if the truth must be told, rather than what is plausible, it is thirst
for rule that provokes two kindred and neighbouring states to arms. Whether rightly or wrongly,
I do not take upon myself to determine: let the consideration of that rest with him who has
begun the war. As for myself, the Albans have only made me their leader for carrying on that
war. Of this, Tullus, I would have you advised: how powerful the Etruscan state is around us,
and around you particularly, you know better than we, inasmuch as you are nearer to them. They
are very powerful by land, far more so by sea. Recollect that, directly you shall give the
signal for battle, these two armies will be the object of their attention, that they may fall
on us when wearied and exhausted, victor and vanquished together. After consideration, on both
sides, a plan was adopted, for which Fortune herself afforded the means of execution.

It happened that there were in the two armies at that time three brothers born at one birth,
neither in age nor strength ill-matched. No objection was raised; the time and place were agreed
upon. We have heard that the treaty in question was then concluded as follows, nor is there
extant a more ancient record of any treaty. The king replied, "So far as it may be done without
detriment to me and to the Roman people, the Quirites, I do so." The herald was Marcus Valerius,
who appointed Spurius Fusius pater patratus,[21] touching his head and hair with the vervain.[22]
The pater patratus was appointed ad iusiurandum patrandum, that is, to ratify the treaty; and
he went through it in a lengthy preamble, which, being expressed in a long set form, it is
not worth while to repeat. As those conditions, from first to last, have been publicly recited
from those tablets or wax without wicked or fraudulent intent, and as they have been most correctly
understood here this day, the Roman people will not be the first to fail to observe those conditions.
When he said this, he struck the swine with a flint stone. The Albans likewise went through
their own set form and oath by the mouth of their own dictator and priests.

The treaty being concluded, the twin-brothers, as had been agreed, took arms. The two armies
on both sides had taken their seats in front of their respective camps, free rather from danger
for the moment than from anxiety: for sovereign power was at stake, dependent on the valour
and fortune of so few. Accordingly, therefore, on the tip-toe of expectation, their attention
was eagerly fixed on a spectacle far from pleasing. The signal was given: and the three youths
on each side, as if in battle array, rushed to the charge with arms presented, bearing in their
breasts the spirit of mighty armies. Neither the one nor the other heeded their personal danger,
but the public dominion or slavery was present to their mind, and the thought that the fortune
of their country would be such hereafter as they themselves should have made it. Directly their
arms clashed at the first encounter, and their glittering swords flashed, a mighty horror thrilled
the spectators; and, as hope inclined to neither side, voice and breath alike were numbed.
He happened to be unhurt, so that, though alone he was by no means a match for them all together,
yet he was full of confidence against each singly. In order therefore to separate their attack,
he took to flight, presuming that they would each pursue him with such swiftness as the wounded
state of his body would permit. He had now fled a considerable distance from the place where
the fight had taken place, when, looking back, he perceived that they were pursuing him at
a great distance from each other, and that one of them was not far from him. On him he turned
round with great fury, and while the Alban army shouted out to the Curiatii to succour their
brother, Horatius by this time victorious, having slain his antagonist, was now proceeding
to a second attack. Then the Romans encouraged their champion with a shout such as is wont
to be raised when men cheer in consequence of unexpected success; and he hastened to finish
the combat. Wherefore before the other, who was not far off, could come up to him, he slew
the second Curiatius also. And now, the combat being brought to equal terms, one on each side
remained, but unequally matched in hope and strength. And indeed there was no fight. He thrust
his sword down from above into his throat, while he with difficulty supported the weight of
his arms, and stripped him as he lay prostrate. The Romans welcomed Horatius with joy and congratulations;
with so much the greater exultation, as the matter had closely bordered on alarm. They then
turned their attention to the burial of their friends, with feelings by no means the same:
for the one side was elated by the acquisition of empire, the other brought under the rule
of others: their sepulchres may still be seen in the spot where each fell; the two Roman in
one place nearer Alba, the three Alban in the direction of Rome, but situated at some distance
from each other, as in fact they had fought.

Before they departed from thence, when Mettius, in accordance with the treaty which had been
concluded, asked Tullus what his orders were, he ordered him to keep his young men under arms,
for he intended to employ them, if a war should break out with the Veientes. After this both
armies were led away to their homes. So, having drawn his sword, he ran the maiden through
the body, at the same time reproaching her with these words: "Go hence with thy ill-timed love
to thy spouse, forgetful of thy brothers that are dead, and of the one who survives--forgetful
of thy country. So fare every Roman woman who shall mourn an enemy." This deed seemed cruel
to the fathers and to the people; but his recent services outweighed its enormity. Nevertheless
he was dragged before the king for judgment. The king, however, that he might not himself be
responsible for a decision so melancholy, and so disagreeable in the view of the people, or
for the punishment consequent on such decision, having summoned an assembly of the people,
declared, "I appoint, according to law, duumvirs to pass sentence on Horatius for treason."
The law was of dreadful formula. Then Horatius, on the advice of Tullus, a merciful interpreter
of the law, said, "I appeal." Accordingly the matter was contested before the people as to
the appeal. At that trial the spectators were much affected, especially on Publius Horatius
the father declaring that he considered his daughter to have been deservedly slain; were it
not so, that he would by virtue of his authority as a father have inflicted punishment on his
son. For whither can you lead this youth, where his own noble deeds will not redeem him from
such disgraceful punishment?" The people could not withstand either the tears of the father,
or the spirit of the son, the same in every danger, and acquitted him more from admiration
of his bravery, than on account of the justice of his cause. This beam remains even to this
day, being constantly repaired at the public expense; it is called Sororium Tigillum (Sister's
Beam). A tomb of square stone was erected to Horatia in the spot where she was stabbed and fell.

However, the peace with Alba did not long continue. The dissatisfaction of the populace at
the fortune of the state having been intrusted to three soldiers, perverted the wavering mind
of the dictator; and since straightforward measures had not turned out well, he began to conciliate
the affections of the populace by treacherous means. Accordingly, as one who had formerly sought
peace in time of war, and was now seeking war in time of peace, because he perceived that his
own state possessed more courage than strength, he stirred up other nations to make war openly
and by proclamation: for his own people he reserved the work of treachery under the show of
allegiance. When Fidenae had openly revolted, Tullus, after summoning Mettius and his army
from Alba, marched against the enemy. The Alban had no more courage than loyalty. Therefore
neither daring to keep his ground, nor to desert openly, he filed off slowly to the mountains.
After this, when he supposed he had advanced far enough, he led his entire army uphill, and
still wavering in mind, in order to waste time, opened his ranks. He likewise commanded him
to order the cavalry to raise their spears aloft; the execution of this order shut out the
view of the retreating Alban army from a great part of the Roman infantry. Those who saw it,
believing that it was even so, as they had heard from the king, fought with all the greater
valour. The alarm was transferred to the enemy; they had both heard what had been uttered so
loudly, and a great part of the Fidenates, as men who had mixed as colonists with the Romans,
understood Latin. Therefore, that they might not be cut off from the town by a sudden descent
of the Albans from the hills, they took to flight. When their flight led thither, some, shamefully
throwing down their arms, rushed blindly into the river; others, while lingering on the banks,
undecided whether to fight or flee, were overpowered. Never before was a more desperate battle
fought by the Romans.

Then the Alban army, which had been a mere spectator of the fight, was marched down into the
plains. Mettius congratulated Tullus on his victory over the enemy; Tullus on his part addressed
Mettius with courtesy. He ordered the Albans to unite their camp with that of the Romans, which
he prayed heaven might prove beneficial to both; and prepared a purificatory sacrifice for
the next day. As soon as it was daylight, all things being in readiness, according to custom,
he commanded both armies to be summoned to an assembly. The heralds, beginning at the farthest
part of the camp, summoned the Albans first. They, struck also with the novelty of the thing,
in order to hear the Roman king deliver a speech, crowded next to him. The Roman forces, under
arms, according to previous arrangement, surrounded them; the centurions had been charged to
execute their orders without delay. Then Tullus began as follows: "Romans, if ever before,
at any other time, in any war, there was a reason that you should return thanks, first to the
immortal gods, next to your own valour, it was yesterday's battle. For the struggle was not
so much with enemies as with the treachery and perfidy of allies, a struggle which is more
serious and more dangerous. For--that you may not be under a mistaken opinion--know that it
was without my orders that the Albans retired to the mountains, nor was that my command, but
a stratagem and the mere pretence of a command: that you, being kept in ignorance that you
were deserted, your attention might not be drawn away from the fight, and that the enemy might
be inspired with terror and dismay, conceiving themselves to be surrounded on the rear. Nor
is that guilt, which I now complain of, shared by all the Albans. They merely followed their
leader, as you too would have done, had I wished to turn my army away to any other point from
thence. It is Mettius there who is the leader of this march: it is Mettius also who the contriver
of this war is: it is Mettius who is the violator of the treaty between Rome and Alba. Let
another hereafter venture to do the like, if I do not presently make of him a signal example
to mankind." Then Tullus proceeded: "If, Mettius Fufetius, you were capable of learning fidelity,
and how to observe treaties, I would have suffered you to live and have given you such a lesson.
But as it is, since your disposition is incurable, do you at any rate by your punishment teach
mankind to consider those obligations sacred, which have been violated by you? All turned away
their eyes from so shocking a spectacle. That was the first and last instance among the Romans
of a punishment which established a precedent that showed but little regard for the laws of
humanity.

In the meantime Rome increased by the destruction of Alba. The number of citizens was doubled.
The Coelian Mount was added to the city, and, in order that it might be more thickly populated,
Tullus selected it as a site for his palace, and subsequently took up his abode there. Further,
that all ranks might acquire some additional strength from the new people, he chose ten troops
of horsemen from among the Albans: he likewise recruited the old legions, and raised new ones,
by additions from the same source. Trusting to this increase of strength, Tullus declared war
against the Sabines, a nation at that time the most powerful, next to the Etruscans, in men
and arms. On both sides wrongs had been committed, and satisfaction demanded in vain. Tullus
complained that some Roman merchants had been seized in a crowded market near the temple of
Feronia:[31] the Sabines that some of their people had previously taken refuge in the asylum,
and had been detained at Rome. These were put forward as the causes of the war. Etruria was
in their neighbourhood; of the Etruscans the Veientes were the nearest. While both sides were
preparing for war with the utmost vigour, and the matter seemed to turn on this, which side
should first commence hostilities, Tullus advanced first into the Sabine territory. A desperate
battle took place at the wood called Malitiosa, in which the Roman army gained a decisive advantage,
both by reason of the superior strength of their infantry, and also, more especially, by the
aid of their cavalry, which had been recently increased. The Sabine ranks were thrown into
disorder by a sudden charge of the cavalry, nor could they afterward stand firm in battle array,
or retreat in loose order without great slaughter. Anyhow, it continued a solemn observance,
that, whenever a similar prodigy was announced, a festival for nine days was observed. Not
long after, they were afflicted with an epidemic; and though in consequence of this there arose
an unwillingness to serve, yet no respite from arms was given them by the warlike king, who
considered besides that the bodies of the young men were more healthy when on service abroad
than at home, until he himself also was attacked by a lingering disease. The ambassador, when
he reaches the frontiers of the people from whom satisfaction is demanded, having his head
covered with a fillet--this covering is of wool--says: "Hear, O Jupiter, hear, ye confines"
(naming whatsoever nation they belong to), "let divine justice hear. I am the public messenger
of the Roman people; I come deputed by right and religion, and let my words gain credit." Then
he replies: "I think that they should be demanded by a war free from guilt and regularly declared;
and accordingly I agree, and vote for it." Then the others were asked in order, and when the
majority of those present expressed the same opinion, war was agreed upon. Whenever he said
that, he used to hurl the spear within their confines. After this manner at that time satisfaction
was demanded from the Latins, and war proclaimed: and posterity has adopted that usage. After
this Politorium, which the ancient Latins had taken possession of when vacated, was taken a
second time by force of arms. This was the cause of the Romans demolishing that city that it
might never after serve as a place of refuge for the enemy. At last, the war with the Latins
being entirely concentrated at Medullia, the contest was carried on there for some time with
changing success, according as the fortune of war varied: for the town was both well protected
by fortified works, and strengthened by a powerful garrison, and the Latins, having pitched
their camp in the open, had several times come to a close engagement with the Romans. At last
Ancus, making an effort with all his forces, first defeated them in a pitched battle, and,
enriched by considerable booty, returned thence to Rome: many thousands of the Latins were
then also admitted to citizenship, to whom, in order that the Aventine might be united to the
Palatium, a settlement was assigned near the Temple of Murcia.[33] was likewise added not from
want of room, but lest at any time it should become a stronghold for the enemy. He was the
son of Demaratus, a Corinthian, who, an exile from his country on account of civil disturbances
had chanced to settle at Tarquinii, and having married a wife there, had two sons by her. Their
names were Lucumo and Arruns. Lucumo survived his father, and became heir to all his property.
Lucumo, who was, on the other hand, the heir of all his father's property, being filled with
high aspirations by reason of his wealth, had these ambitions greatly advanced by his marriage
with Tanaquil, who was descended from a very high family, and was a woman who would not readily
brook that the condition into which she had married should be inferior to that in which she
had been born. As the Etruscans despised Lucumo, as being sprung from a foreign exile, she
could not put up with the affront, and, regardless of the natural love of her native country,
provided only she could see her husband advanced to honour, she formed the design of leaving
Tarquinii. Rome seemed particularly suited for that purpose. Bearing with them such hopes and
thoughts, they entered the city, and having secured a dwelling there, they gave out his name
as Lucius Tarquinius Priscus.

Ancus reigned twenty-four years, equal to any of the former kings both in the arts of war and
peace, and in renown. That he, from the time he was his own master, had migrated to Rome with
his wife and whole fortune, and had spent a longer period of that time of life, during which
men are employed in civil offices, at Rome, than he had in his native country; that he had
both in peace and war become thoroughly acquainted with the political and religious institutions
of the Romans, under a master by no means to be despised, King Ancus himself; that he had vied
with all in duty and loyalty to his king, and with the king himself in his bounty to others.
While he was recounting these undoubted facts, the people with great unanimity elected him
king. The first war he waged was with the Latins, in whose territory he took the town of Apiolae
by storm, and having brought back thence more booty than might have been expected from the
reported importance of the war, he celebrated games with more magnificence and display than
former kings. The show consisted of horses and boxers that were summoned, chiefly from Etruria.

He was also preparing to surround the city with a stone wall, when a war with the Sabines interrupted
his plans. The whole thing was so sudden, that the enemy passed the Anio before the Roman army
could meet and prevent them: great alarm therefore was felt at Rome. Because Romulus had done
this after inquiries by augury, Attus Navius, a celebrated soothsayer of the day, insisted
that no alteration or new appointment could be made, unless the birds had approved of it. The
king, enraged at this, and, as they say, mocking at his art, said, "Come, thou diviner, tell
me, whether what I have in my mind can be done or not?" They say also that the whetstone was
deposited in the same place that it might remain as a record of that miracle to posterity.

This part of his forces being augmented, a second engagement took place with the Sabines. The
Sabines made for the mountains in disordered flight, but only a few reached them; for, as has
been said before, most of them were driven by the cavalry into the river. Tarquin, thinking
it advisable to press the enemy hard while in a state of panic, having sent the booty and the
prisoners to Rome, and piled in a large heap and burned the enemy's spoils, vowed as an offering
to Vulcan, proceeded to lead his army onward into the Sabine territory. And though the operation
had been unsuccessfully carried out, and they could not hope for better success; yet, because
the state of affairs did not allow time for deliberation, the Sabines came out to meet him
with a hastily raised army. Being again routed there, as the situation had now become almost
desperate, they sued for peace. Collatia and all the land round about was taken from the Sabines,
and Egerius, son of the king's brother, was left there in garrison. He also levelled an open
space for a temple of Jupiter in the Capitol, which he had vowed to him in the Sabine war:
as his mind even then forecast the future grandeur of the place, he took possession of the
site by laying its foundations.

At that time a prodigy was seen in the palace, which was marvellous in its result. It is related
that the head of a boy, called Servius Tullius, as he lay asleep, blazed with fire in the presence
of several spectators: that, on a great noise being made at so miraculous a phenomenon, the
king and queen were awakened: and when one of the servants was bringing water to put out the
flame, that he was kept back by the queen, and after the disturbance was quieted, that she
forbade the boy to be disturbed till he should awaken of his own accord. As soon as he awoke
the flame disappeared. Then Tanaquil, taking her husband apart, said: "Do you see this boy
whom bringing up in so mean a style? Be assured that some time hereafter he will be a light
to us in our adversity, and a protector of our royal house when in distress. Henceforth let
us, with all the tenderness we can, train up this youth, who is destined to prove the source
of great glory to our family and state." From this time the boy began to be treated as their
own son, and instructed in those accomplishments by which men's minds are roused to maintain
high rank with dignity. This was easily done, as it was agreeable to the gods. For these reasons
the plot was laid against the king himself. At first both shouted aloud, and vied in clamouring
against each other, until, being restrained by the lictor, and commanded to speak in turns,
they at length ceased railing: as agreed upon, one began to state his case. While the king's
attention, eagerly directed toward the speaker, was diverted from the second shepherd, the
latter, raising up his axe, brought it down upon the king's head, and, leaving the weapon in
the wound, both rushed out of the palace.

When those around had raised up Tarquin in a dying state, the lictors seized the shepherds,
who were endeavouring to escape. Upon this an uproar ensued and a concourse of people assembled,
wondering what was the matter. Tanaquil, amid the tumult, ordered the palace to be shut, and
thrust out all spectators: at the same time she carefully prepared everything necessary for
dressing the wound, as if a hope still remained: at the same time, she provided other means
of safety, in case her hopes should prove false. "Servius," said she, "if you are a man, the
kingdom belongs to you, not to those, who, by the hands of others, have perpetrated a most
shameful deed. Therefore, though Tarquin had now expired, his death was concealed for several
days, and Servius, under pretence of discharging the functions of another, strengthened his
own influence.

And now Servius began to strengthen his power, not more by public than by private measures;
and, that the children of Tarquin might not entertain the same feelings toward himself as the
children of Ancus had entertained toward Tarquin, he united his two daughters in marriage to
the young princes, the Tarquinii, Lucius and Arruns. He did not, however, break through the
inevitable decrees of fate by human counsels, so as to prevent jealousy of the sovereign power
creating general animosity and treachery even among the members of his own family. Very opportunely
for the immediate preservation of tranquility, a war was undertaken against the Veientes (for
the truce had now expired) and the other Etruscans. Then he divided the classes and centuries
according to the census, and introduced the following arrangement, eminently adapted either
for peace or war. The fifth class was larger, thirty centuries being formed: these carried
slings and stones for throwing. Having thus arranged and distributed the infantry, he enrolled
twelve centuries of knights from among the chief men of the state. For the city being divided
into four districts, according to the regions and hills which were then inhabited, he called
these divisions, tribes, as I think, from the tribute. For the method of levying taxes ratably
according to the value of property was also introduced by him: nor had these tribes any relation
to the number and distribution of the centuries. To accommodate that vast population the city
also seemed to require enlargement. He took in two hills, the Quirinal and Viminal; then next
he enlarged the Esquiline, and took up his own residence there, in order that dignity might
be conferred upon the place. He surrounded the city with a rampart, a moat, and a wall:[44]
thus he enlarged the pomerium. Those who regard only the etymology of the word, will have the
pomerium to be a space of ground behind the walls: whereas it is rather a space on each side
of the wall, which the Etruscans, in building cities, formerly consecrated by augury, within
certain limits, both within and without, in the direction they intended to raise the wall:
so that the houses might not be erected close to the walls on the inside, as people commonly
unite them now, and also that there might be some space without left free from human occupation.
This space, which was forbidden to be tilled or inhabited, the Romans called pomerium, not
so much from its being behind the wall, as from the wall being behind it: and in enlarging
the boundaries of the city, these onsecrated limits were always extended, as far as the walls
were intended to be advanced. The Temple of Diana at Ephesus was even then in high renown;
it was reported that it had been built by all the states of Asia in common. This was an acknowledgment
that the headship of affairs, concerning which they had so often disputed in arms, was centred
in Rome. A cow of surprising size and beauty is said to have been calved to a certain Sabine,
the head of a family: her horns, which were hung up in the porch of the Temple of Diana, remained
for many ages, to bear record to this marvel. The thing was regarded in the light of a prodigy,
as indeed it was, and the soothsayers declared that sovereignty should reside in that state,
a citizen of which had sacrificed this heifer to Diana. This prediction had also reached the
ears of the high priest of the Temple of Diana. The Sabine, as soon as a suitable day for the
sacrifice seemed to have arrived, drove the cow to Rome, led her to the Temple of Diana, and
set her before the altar. The stranger, seized with religious awe, since he was desirous of
everything being done in due form, that the event might correspond with the prediction, forthwith
went down to the Tiber. And yet even this circumstance did not lessen Tarquin's hope of obtaining
the throne; nay, because he had observed that the matter of the distribution of land to the
people was against the will of the fathers, he thought that an opportunity was now presented
to him of arraigning Servius before the fathers with greater violence, and of increasing his
own influence in the senate, being himself a hot-tempered youth, while his wife Tullia roused
his restless temper at home. For the royal house of the Roman kings also exhibited an example
of tragic guilt, so that through their disgust of kings, liberty came more speedily, and the
rule of this king, which was attained through crime, was the last. To these two, as has been
already stated, the two Tullias, daughters of the king, had been married, they also themselves
being of widely different characters. It had come to pass, through the good fortune, I believe,
of the Roman people, that two violent dispositions should not be united in marriage, in order
that the reign of Servius might last longer, and the constitution of the state be firmly established.
The haughty spirit of Tullia was chagrined, that there was no predisposition in her husband,
either to ambition or daring. Directing all her regard to the other Tarquinius, him she admired,
him she declared to be a man, and sprung from royal blood; she expressed her contempt for her
sister, because, having a man for her husband, she lacked that spirit of daring that a woman
ought to possess. If the gods had granted her the husband she deserved, she would soon have
seen the crown in possession of her own house, which she now saw in possession of her father.
She soon filled the young man with her own daring. Lucius Tarquinius and the younger Tullia,
when the pair had, by almost simultaneous murders, made their houses vacant for new nuptials,
were united in marriage, Servius rather offering no opposition than actually approving.

Then indeed the old age of Tullius began to be every day more endangered, his throne more imperilled.
For now the woman from one crime directed her thoughts to another, and allowed her husband
no rest either by night or by day, that their past crimes might not prove unprofitable, saying
that what she wanted was not one whose wife she might be only in name, or one with whom she
might live an inactive life of slavery: what she wanted was one who would consider himself
worthy of the throne, who would remember that he was the son of Tarquinius Priscus, who would
rather have a kingdom than hope for it. "If you, to whom I consider myself married, are such
a one, I greet you both as husband and king; but if not, our condition has been changed so
far for the worse, in that in your crime is associated with cowardice. Why do you not gird
yourself to the task? You need not, like your father, from Corinth or Tarquinii, struggle for
a kingdom in a foreign land. Your household and country's gods, the statue of your father,
the royal palace and the kingly throne in that palace, and the Tarquinian name, elect and call
you king. Or if you have too little spirit for this, why do you disappoint the state? By chiding
him with these and other words, she urged on the young man: nor could she rest herself, at
the thought that though Tanaquil, a woman of foreign birth, had been able to conceive and carry
out so vast a project, as to bestow two thrones in succession on her husband, and then on her
son-in-law, she, sprung from royal blood, had no decisive influence in bestowing and taking
away a kingdom. When the other haughtily replied, that he, a king's son, was occupying the
throne of his father, a much fitter successor to the throne than a slave; that he had insulted
his masters full long enough by shuffling insolence, a shout arose from the partisans of both,
the people rushed into the senate-house, and it was evident that whoever came off victor would
gain the throne. Then Tarquin, forced by actual necessity to proceed to extremities, having
a decided advantage both in years and strength, seized Servius by the waist, and having carried
him out of the senate-house, hurled him down the steps to the bottom. He then returned to the
senate house to assemble the senate. The king's officers and attendants took to flight. Anyhow,
as is generally admitted, driving into the forum in her chariot, unabashed by the crowd of
men present, she called her husband out of the senate-house, and was the first to greet him,
king; and when, being bidden by him to withdraw from such a tumult, she was returning home,
and had reached the top of the Cyprian Street, where Diana's chapel lately stood, as she was
turning on the right to the Urian Hill, in order to ride up to the Esquiline, the driver stopped
terrified, and drew in his reins, and pointed out to his mistress the body of the murdered
Servius lying on the ground. On this occasion a revolting and inhuman crime is said to have
been committed, and the place bears record of it. They call it the Wicked Street, where Tullia,
frantic and urged on by the avenging furies of her sister and husband, is said to have driven
her chariot over her father's body, and to have carried a portion of the blood of her murdered
father on her blood-stained chariot, herself also defiled and sprinkled with it, to her own
and her husband's household gods, through whose vengeance results corresponding with the evil
beginning of the reign were soon destined to follow. Servius Tullius reigned forty-four years
in such a manner that it was no easy task even for a good and moderate successor to compete
with him. However, this also has proved an additional source of renown to him that together
with him perished all just and legitimate reigns. This same authority, so mild and so moderate,
because it was vested in one man, some say that he nevertheless had intended to resign, had
not the wickedness of his family interfered with him as he was forming plans for the liberation
of his country.

After this period Lucius Tarquinius began to reign, whose acts procured him the surname of
Proud, for he, the son-in-law, refused his father-in-law burial, alleging that even Romulus
was not buried after death. He put to death the principal senators, whom he suspected of having
favoured the cause of Servius. The number of the fathers more particularly being in this manner
diminished, he determined to elect none into the senate in their place, that the order might
become more contemptible owing to this very reduction in numbers, and that it might feel the
less resentment at no business being transacted by it. For he was the first of the kings who
violated the custom derived from his predecessors of consulting the senate on all matters,
and administered the business of the state by taking counsel with his friends alone. On Octavius
Mamilius of Tusculum, who was by far the most eminent of those who bore the Latin name, being
descended, if we believe tradition, from Ulysses and the goddess Circe, he bestowed his daughter
in marriage, and by this match attached to himself many of his kinsmen and friends.

The influence of Tarquin among the chief men of the Latins being now considerable, he issued
an order that they should assemble on a certain day at the grove of Ferentina,[47] saying that
there were matters of common interest about which he wished to confer with them. They assembled
in great numbers at daybreak. Tarquinius himself kept the day indeed, but did not arrive until
shortly before sunset. Many matters were there discussed in the meeting throughout the day
in various conversations. Turnus Herdonius of Aricia inveighed violently against the absent
Tarquin, saying that it was no wonder the surname of Proud was given him at Rome; for so they
now called him secretly and in whispers, but still generally. Could anything show more haughtiness
than this insolent mockery of the entire Latin nation? After their chiefs had been summoned
so great a distance from home, he who had proclaimed the meeting did not attend; assuredly
their patience was being tried, in order that, if they submitted to the yoke, he might crush
them when at his mercy. For who could fail to see that he was aiming at sovereignty over the
Latins? If they listened to him, they would depart thence, each to his own home, and take no
more notice of the day of meeting than he who had proclaimed it. When this man, mutinous and
full of daring, and one who had obtained influence at home by such methods, was pressing these
and other observations to the same effect, Tarquin appeared on the scene. This put an end to
his harangue. All turned away from him to salute Tarquin, who, on silence being proclaimed,
being advised by those next him to make some excuse for having come so late, said that he had
been chosen arbitrator between a father and a son: that, from his anxiety to reconcile them,
he had delayed: and, because that duty had taken up that day, that on the morrow he would carry
out what he had determined. They say that he did not make even that observation unrebuked by
Turnus, who declared that no controversy could be more quickly decided than one between father
and son, and that it could be settled in a few words--unless the son submitted to the father,
he would be punished.

The Arician withdrew from the meeting, uttering these reproaches against the Roman king. By
means of some Aricians of the opposite party, he bribed a servant of Turnus with gold, to allow
a great number of swords to be secretly brought into his lodging. When these preparations had
been completed in the course of a single night, Tarquin, having summoned the chief of the Latins
to him a little before day, as if alarmed by some strange occurrence, said that his delay of
yesterday, which had been caused as it were by some providential care of the gods, had been
the means of preservation to himself and to them; that he had been told that destruction was
being plotted by Turnus for him and the chiefs of the Latin peoples, that he alone might obtain
the government of the Latins. That he would have attacked them yesterday at the meeting; that
the attempt had been deferred, because the person who summoned the meeting was absent, who
was the chief object of his attack? That that was the reason of the abuse heaped upon him during
his absence, because he had disappointed his hopes by delaying. That he had no doubt that,
if the truth were told him, he would come attended by a band of conspirators, at break of day,
when the assembly met, ready prepared and armed. They started with minds inclined indeed to
believe, yet determined to consider everything else false, unless the swords were found. However,
for the sake of the interest of all parties, he thought rather that that treaty should be renewed,
and that the Latins should rather share in the enjoyment of the prosperity of the Roman people,
than be constantly either apprehending or suffering the demolition of their towns and the devastation
of their lands, which they had formerly suffered in the reign of Ancus, and afterward in the
reign of his own father.

Nor was Tarquin, though a tyrannical prince in time of peace, an incompetent general in war;
nay, he would have equalled his predecessors in that art, had not his degeneracy in other ways
likewise detracted from his merit in this respect. Soon after a war claimed his attention,
which proved more protracted than he had expected, in which, having in vain attempted to storm
Gabii,[48] a city in the neighbourhood, when, after suffering a repulse from the walls, he
was deprived also of all hope of taking it by siege, he assailed it by fraud and stratagem,
a method by no means natural to the Romans. But if there were no refuge for suppliants among
them, he would traverse all Latium, and would apply next to the Volscians, Aequans, and Hernicans,
until he should come to people who knew how to protect children from the impious and cruel
persecutions of parents. That perhaps he would even find some eagerness to take up arms and
wage war against this most tyrannical king and his equally savage subjects. As he seemed likely
to go further, enraged as he was, if they paid him no regard, he was kindly received by the
Gabians.

Upon this, he was admitted into their public councils, in which, while, with regard to other
matters, he declared himself willing to submit to the judgment of the elders of Gabii, who
were better acquainted with them, yet he every now and again advised them to renew the war,
claiming for himself superior knowledge in this, on the ground of being well acquainted with
the strength of both nations, and also because he knew that the king's pride, which even his
own children had been unable to endure, had become decidedly hateful to his subjects. As he
thus by degrees stirred up the nobles of the Gabians to renew the war, and himself accompanied
the most active of their youth on plundering parties and expeditions, and unreasonable credit
was increasingly given to all his words and actions, framed as they were with the object of
deceiving, he was at last chosen general-in-chief in the war. As soon as it was clear to Sextus
what his father wished, and what conduct he enjoined by those intimations without words, he
put to death the most eminent men of the city, some by accusing them before the people, as
well as others, who from their own personal unpopularity were liable to attack. Many were executed
publicly, and some, in whose case impeachment was likely to prove less plausible, were secretly
assassinated. Some who wished to go into voluntary exile were allowed to do so, others were
banished, and their estates, as well as the estates of those who were put to death, publicly
divided in their absence.

Tarquin, having thus gained possession of Gabii, made peace with the nation of the Aequi, and
renewed the treaty with the Etruscans. He next turned his attention to the affairs of the city.
The chief of these was that of leaving behind him the Temple of Jupiter on the Tarpeian Mount,
as a monument of his name and reign; to remind posterity that of two Tarquinii, both kings,
the father had vowed, the son completed it.[50] Further, that the open space, to the exclusion
of all other forms of worship, might be entirely appropriated to Jupiter and his temple, which
was to be erected upon it, he resolved to cancel the inauguration of the small temples and
chapels, several of which had been first vowed by King Tatius, in the crisis of the battle
against Romulus, and afterward consecrated and dedicated by him. At the very outset of the
foundation of this work it is said that the gods exerted their divinity to declare the future
greatness of so mighty an empire; for, though the birds declared for the unhallowing of all
the other chapels, they did not declare themselves in favour of it in the case of that of Terminus.[51]
This omen and augury were taken to import that the fact of Terminus not changing his residence,
and that he was the only one of the gods who was not called out of the consecrated bounds devoted
to his worship, was a presage of the lasting stability of the state in general. The sight of
this phenomenon by no doubtful indications portended that this temple should be the seat of
empire, and the capital of the world; and so declared the soothsayers, both those who were
in the city, and those whom they had summoned from Etruria, to consult on this subject. Titus
and Arruns were the two who set out. They were accompanied by Lucius Junius Brutus, the son
of Tarquinia, the king's sister, a youth of an entirely different cast of mind from that of
which he had assumed the disguise. Therefore, having designedly fashioned himself to the semblance
of foolishness, and allowing himself and his whole estate to become the prey of the king, he
did not refuse to take even the surname of Brutus,[55] that, under the cloak of this surname,
the genius that was to be the future liberator of the Roman people, lying concealed, might
bide its opportunity.

The Rutulians, a very wealthy nation, considering the country and age in which they lived,
were at that time in possession of Ardea.[56] Their wealth was itself the actual occasion of
the war: for the Roman king, whose resources had been drained by the magnificence of his public
works, was desirous of enriching himself, and also of soothing the minds of his subjects by
a large present of booty, as they, independently of the other instances of his tyranny, were
incensed against his government, because they felt indignant that they had been kept so long
employed by the king as mechanics, and in labour only fit for slaves. An attempt was made,
to see if Ardea could be taken at the first assault; when that proved unsuccessful, the enemy
began to be distressed by a blockade, and by siege-works. One day as they were drinking in
the tent of Sextus Tarquinius, where Collatinus Tarquinius, the son of Egerius, was also at
supper, they fell to talking about their wives. Every one commended his own extravagantly:
a dispute thereupon arising, Collatinus said there was no occasion for words, that it might
be known in a few hours how far his wife Lucretia excelled all the rest. "If, then," added
he, "we have any youthful vigour, why should we not mount our horses and in person examine
the behaviour of our wives? Let that be the surest proof to every one, which shall meet his
eyes on the unexpected arrival of the husband." They were heated with wine. "Come on, then,"
cried all. They immediately galloped to Rome, where they arrived when darkness was beginning
to fall. From thence they proceeded to Collatia,[57] where they found Lucretia, not after the
manner of the king's daughters-in-law, whom they had seen spending their time in luxurious
banqueting with their companions, but, although the night was far advanced, employed at her
wool, sitting in the middle of the house in the midst of her maids who were working around
her. There an evil desire of violating Lucretia by force seized Sextus Tarquinius; both her
beauty, and her proved chastity urged him on. Then, after this youthful frolic of the night,
they returned to the camp. I have a sword in my hand. You shall die if you utter a word." When
the woman, awaking terrified from sleep, saw there was no help, and that impending death was
nigh at hand, then Tarquin declared his passion, entreated, mixed threats with entreaties,
tried all means to influence the woman's mind. Spurius Lucretius came accompanied by Publius
Valerius, the son of Volesus, Collatinus with Lucius Junius Brutus, in company with whom, as
he was returning to Rome, he happened to be met by his wife's messenger. It is Sextus Tarquinius,
who, an enemy last night in the guise of a guest has borne hence by force of arms, a triumph
destructive to me, and one that will prove so to himself also, if you be men." All gave their
word in succession; they attempted to console her, grieved in heart as she was, by turning
the guilt of the act from her, constrained as she had been by force, upon the perpetrator of
the crime, declaring that it is the mind sins, not the body; and that where there is no intention,
there is no guilt. "It is for you to see," said she, "what is due to him. As for me, though
I acquit myself of guilt, I do not discharge myself from punishment; nor shall any woman survive
her dishonour by pleading the example of Lucretia." However, they all took the oath as they
were directed, and, their sorrow being completely changed to wrath, followed the lead of Brutus,
who from that time ceased not to call upon them to abolish the regal power. They carried forth
the body of Lucretia from her house, and conveyed it to the forum, where they caused a number
of persons to assemble, as generally happens, by reason of the unheard-of and atrocious nature
of an extraordinary occurrence. They complained, each for himself, of the royal villainy and
violence. Both the grief of the father affected them, and also Brutus, who reproved their tears
and unavailing complaints, and advised them to take up arms, as became men and Romans, against
those who dared to treat them like enemies. All the most spirited youths voluntarily presented
themselves in arms; the rest of the young men followed also. Again, when they saw the principal
men of the state placing themselves at their head, they thought that, whatever it might be,
it was not without good reason. Nor did the heinousness of the event excite less violent emotions
at Rome than it had done at Collatia: accordingly, they ran from all parts of the city into
the forum, and as soon as they came thither, the public crier summoned them to attend the tribune
of the celeres [58], with which office Brutus happened to be at the time invested. The gates
were shut against Tarquin, and sentence of banishment declared against him; the camp welcomed
with great joy the deliverer of the city, and the king's sons were expelled. Two of them followed
their father, and went into exile to Caere, a city of Etruria. Sextus Tarquinius, who had gone
to Gabii, as if to his own kingdom, was slain by the avengers of the old feuds, which he had
stirred up against himself by his rapines and murders.

[Footnote 1: Books I-III are based upon the translation by John Henry Freese, but in many places
have been revised or retranslated by Duffield Osborne.]

[Footnote 2: The king was originally the high priest, his office more sacerdotal than military:
as such he would have the selection and appointment of the Vestal Virgins, the priestesses
of Vesta, the hearth-goddess. Their chief duty was to keep the sacred fire burning ("the fire
that burns for aye"), and to guard the relics in the Temple of Vesta. If convicted of unchastity
they were buried alive.]

[Footnote 3: Surely there is no lack of "historical criticism" here and on a subject where
a Roman writer might be pardoned for some credulity.--D.O.]

[Footnote 4: Livy ignores the more accepted and prettier tradition that this event took place
where the sacred fig-tree originally stood, and that later it was miraculously transplanted
to the comitium by Attius Navius, the famous augur, "That it might stand in the midst of the
meetings of the Romans"--D.O.]

[Footnote 5: According to Varro, Rome was founded B.C. 753; according to Cato, B.C. 751. Livy
here derives Roma from Romulus, but this is rejected by modern etymologists; according to Mommsen
the word means "stream-town," from its position on the Tiber.]

[Footnote 6: The remarkable beauty of the white or mouse-coloured cattle of central Italy gives
a touch of realism to this story.--D.O.]

[Footnote 7: The introduction of the art of writing among the Romans was ascribed to Evander.
The Roman alphabet was derived from the Greek, through the Grecian (Chalcidian) colony at Cumae.]

[Footnote 8: The title patres originally signified the heads of families, and was in early
times used of the patrician senate, as selected from these. When later, plebeians were admitted
into the senate, the members of the senate were all called patres, while patricians, as opposed
to plebeians, enjoyed certain distinctions and privileges.]

[Footnote 9: This story of the rape of the Sabines belongs to the class of what are called
"etiological" myths--i. e., stories invented to account for a rite or custom, or to explain
local names or characteristics. The custom prevailed among Greeks and Romans of the bridegroom
pretending to carry off the bride from her home by force. Such a custom still exists among
the nomad tribes of Asia Minor. The rape of the Sabine women was invented to account for this
custom.]

[Footnote 10: The spolia opima (grand spoils)--a term used to denote the arms taken by one
general from another--were only gained twice afterward during the history of the republic;
in B.C. 437, when A. Cornelius Cossus slew Lars Tolumnius of Veii; and in B.C. 222, when the
consul M. Claudius Marcellus slew Viridomarus, chief of the Insubrian Gauls.]

[Footnote 11: The place afterward retained its name, even when filled up and dry. Livy (Book
VII) gives a different reason for the name: that it was so called from one Marcus Curtius having
sprung, armed, and on horseback, several hundred years ago (B.C. 362), into a gulf that suddenly
opened in the forum; it being imagined that it would not close until an offering was made of
what was most valuable in the state--i. e., a warrior armed and on horseback. According to
Varro, it was a locus fulguritus (i. e., struck by lightning), which was inclosed by a consul
named Curtius.]

[Footnote 12: Supposed to be derived from "Lucumo," the name or, according to more accepted
commentators, title of an Etruscan chief who came to help Romulus.--D.O.]

[Footnote 13: The inhabitants of Fidenae, about five miles from Rome, situated on the Tiber,
near Castel Giubileo.--D.O.]

[Footnote 14: About twelve and a half miles north of Rome, close to the little river Cremera;
it was one of the most important of the twelve confederate Etruscan towns. Plutarch describes
it as the bulwark of Etruria: not inferior to Rome in military equipment and numbers.]

[Footnote 15: A naïvely circumstantial story characteristically told. It did not always coincide
with the line of the walls, but was extended from time to time. Such extension could only be
made by a magistrate who had extended the boundaries of the empire by his victories,--D.O.]

[Footnote 25: Literally, "Horatian javelins."--D.O.]

[Footnote: Evidently so established after the destruction of the inhabitants in the storming
(see p. 17, above).--D. O.]

[Footnote 27: Tiber and Anio.--D. O.]

[Footnote 28: Scourging and beheading, scourging to death, burying alive, and crucifixion (for
slaves) may make us question the justice of this boast. Foreign generals captured in war were
only strangled. Altogether, the Roman indifference to suffering was very marked as compared
with the humanity of the Greeks.--D. O.]

[Footnote 29: The Lares were of human origin, being only the deified ancestors of the family:
the Penates of divine origin, the tutelary gods of the family.]

[Footnote 30: "Curia Hostilia." It was at the northwest corner of the forum, northeast of the
comitium.--D. O.]

[Footnote 31: Identified with Juno.--D. O.]

[Footnote 32: This story makes us suspect that it was the case of another warlike king who
had incurred the enmity of the senate. The patricians alone controlled or were taught in religious
matters.--D.O.]

[Footnote 33: Supposed to be an Etruscan goddess, afterward identified with Jana, the female
form of Janus, as was customary with the Romans.--D.O.] The Janiculum [Footnote: The heights
across the Tiber.--D.O.]

[Footnote 34: Called Mamertinus; though apparently not until the Middle Ages.]

[Footnote 35: Lucumo seems to have been, originally at least, an Etruscan title rather than
name.--D.O.]

[Footnote 36: No one was noble who could not show images of his ancestors: and no one was allowed
to have an image who had not filled the highest offices of state: this was called jus imaginum.]

[Footnote 37: This part of the Via Nova probably corresponded pretty closely with the present
Via S. Teodoro, and Tarquin's house is supposed to have stood not far from the church of Sta.
Anastasia.--D.O.]

[Footnote 38: A white toga with horizontal purple stripes. This was originally the royal robe.
Later it became the ceremonial dress of the equestrian order. The Salii, priests of Mars Gradivus,
also wore it--D.O.]

[Footnote 39: This was a quinquennial registering of every man's age, family, profession, property,
and residence, by which the amount of his taxes was regulated. Formerly each full citizen contributed
an equal amount. Servius introduced a regulation of the taxes according to property qualifications,
and clients and plebeians alike had to pay their contribution, if they possessed the requisite
amount of property.]

[Footnote 40: Or, "pounds weight of bronze," originally reckoned by the possession of a certain
number of jugera (20 jugera being equal to 5,000 asses).]

[Footnote 41: Between the ages of forty-six and sixty.--D.O.]

[Footnote 42: Between the ages of seventeen and forty-six--D.O.].

[Footnote 43: A ceremony of purification, from sus, ovis, and taurus: the three victims were
led three times round the army and sacrificed to Mars. The ceremony took place every fifth year]

[Footnote 44: These were the walls of Rome down to about 271-276 A.D., when the Emperor Aurelian
began the walls that now inclose the city. Remains of the Servian wall are numerous and of
considerable extent.--D.O.]

[Footnote 45: On the summit of the Aventine.--D. O.]

[Footnote 46: Those introduced by Tarquinius Priscus, as related above.--D.O.]

[Footnote 47: At the foot of the Alban Hill. The general councils of the Latins were held here
up to the time of their final subjugation.]

[Footnote 48: A few ruins on the Via Praenestina, about nine miles from the Porta Maggiore,
mark the site of Gabii. They are on the bank of the drained Lago Castiglione, whence Macaulay's
"Gabii of the Pool".--D.O.]

[Footnote 49: This message without words is the same as that which, according to Herodotus,
was sent by Thrasybulus of Miletus to Periander of Corinth. The trick by which Sextus gained
the confidence of the people of Gabii is also related by him of Zophyrus and Darius.]

[Footnote 50: The name "Tarpeian," as given from the Tarpeia, whose story is told above, was
generally confined to the rock or precipice from which traitors were thrown. Its exact location
on the Capitoline Hill does not seem positively determined; in fact, most of the sites on this
hill have been subjects of considerable dispute.--D.O.]

[Footnote 51: The god of boundaries. His action seems quite in keeping with his office.--D.O.]

[Footnote 52: The Cloaca Maxima, upon which Rome still relies for much of her drainage, is
more generally attributed to Tarquinius Priscus.--D.O.]

[Footnote 53: The modern Segni, upward of thirty miles from Rome, on the Rome-Naples line.--D.O.]

[Footnote 54: On the coast, near Terracina. The Promontoria Circeo is the traditional site
of the palace and grave of Circe, whose story is told in the Odyssey.--D.O.]

[Footnote 55: Dullard.--D.O.]

[Footnote 56: In the Pomptine marshes, about twenty miles south of Rome and five from the coast.--D.O.]

[Footnote 57: Its site, about nine miles from Rome, on the road to Tivoli, is now known as
Lunghezza.--D.O.]

[Footnote 58: The royal body-guard. See the story of Romulus above.--D.O.]

[Footnote 59: Spurius Lucretius.--D.O.]

BOOK II

THE FIRST COMMONWEALTH

The acts, civil and military, of the Roman people, henceforth free, their annual magistrates,
and the sovereignty of the laws, more powerful than that of men, I will now proceed to recount.
The haughty insolence of the last king had caused this liberty to be the more welcome: for
the former kings reigned in such a manner that they all in succession may be deservedly reckoned
founders of those parts at least of the city, which they independently added as new dwelling-places
for the population, which had been increased by themselves. Their condition, not yet matured,
would have been destroyed by discord; but the tranquillizing moderation of the government so
fostered this condition, and by proper nourishment brought it to such perfection, that, when
their strength was now developed, they were able to bring forth the wholesome fruits of liberty.
The first beginnings of liberty, however, one may date from this period, rather because the
consular authority was made annual, than because of the royal prerogative was in any way curtailed.
First of all he bound over the people, jealous of their newly-acquired liberty, by an oath
that they would suffer no one to be king in Rome, for fear that later they might be influenced
by the importunities or bribes of the royal house. Next, that a full house might give additional
strength to the senate, he filled up the number of senators, which had been diminished by the
assassinations of Tarquinius, to the full number of three hundred, by electing the principal
men of equestrian rank to fill their places: from this is said to have been derived the custom
of summoning into the senate both the patres and those who were conscripti. They called those
who were elected, conscripti, enrolled, that is, as a new senate. It is surprising how much
that contributed to the harmony of the state, and toward uniting the patricians and commons
in friendship. For, though there was nothing else that gave offence, the name of one of the
consuls was an object of dislike to the state. They declared that the Tarquins had been too
much habituated to sovereignty; that it had originated with Priscus: that Servius Tullius had
reigned next; that Tarquinius Superbus had not even, in spite of the interval that had elapsed,
given up all thoughts of the kingdom as being the property of another, which it really was,
but thought to regain it by crime and violence, as if it were the heirloom of his family; that
after the expulsion of Superbus, the government was inthe hands of Collatinus: that the Tarquins
knew not how to live in a private station; that the name pleased them not; that it was dangerous
to liberty. Such language, used at first by persons quietly sounding the dispositions of the
people, was circulated through the whole state; and the people, now excited by suspicion, were
summoned by Brutus to a meeting. There first of all he read aloud the people's oath: that they
would neither suffer any one to be king, nor allow any one to live at Rome from whom danger
to liberty might arise. "Do you, Lucius Tarquinius," said he, "of your own free will, remove
this apprehension? We remember, we own it, you expelled the royal family; complete your services:
take hence the royal name; your property your fellow-citizens shall not only hand over to you,
by my advice, but, if it is insufficient, they will liberally supply the want. Depart in a
spirit of friendship. Relieve the state from a dread which may be only groundless. Brutus,
according to a decree of the senate, proposed to the people, that all who belonged to the family
of the Tarquins should be banished from Rome: in the assembly of centuries he elected Publius
Valerius, with whose assistance he had expelled the kings, as his colleague.

Though nobody doubted that a war was impending from the Tarquins, yet it broke out later than
was generally expected; however, liberty was well-nigh lost by fraud and treachery, a thing
they never apprehended. There were among the Roman youth several young men--and these of no
no rank--who, while the regal government lasted, had enjoyed greater license in their pleasures,
being the equals in age, boon companions of the young Tarquins, and accustomed to live after
the fashion of princes. In the meantime the ambassadors were planning a different scheme: while
openly demanding the restoration of property, they secretly concerted measures for recovering
the throne, and soliciting them, as if to promote that which appeared to be the object in view,
they sounded the minds of the young nobles; to those by whom their proposals were favourably
received they gave letters from the Tarquins, and conferred with them about admitting the royal
family into the city secretly by night. In the meantime, as that opinion had prevailed in the
Senate, which was in favour of the property being restored, the ambassadors made use of this
as a pretext for lingering in the city, and the time which they had obtained from the consuls
to procure conveyances, in which to remove the effects of the royal family, they spent entirely
in consultations with the conspirators, and by persistent entreaties succeeded in getting letters
given to them for the Tarquins. Otherwise how could they feel sure that the representations
made by the ambassadors on matters of such importance were not false? The traitors were immediately
thrown into prison: some doubt was entertained concerning the treatment of the ambassadors,
and though their conduct seemed to justify their being considered as enemies, the law of nations
nevertheless prevailed.

The consideration of the restoration of the king's effects, for which the senate had formerly
voted, was laid anew before them. The fathers, overcome by indignation, expressly forbade either
their restoration or confiscation. Afterward I believe that substructures were added, and that
aid was given by human handicraft, that the surface might be well raised, as it is now and
strong enough besides to bear the weight even of temples and colonnades. After the tyrant's
effects had been plundered, the traitors were condemned and punishment inflicted. Young men
of the highest rank stood bound to the stake; but the consul's sons diverted the eyes of all
the spectators from the rest of the criminals, as from persons unknown; and the people felt
pity, not so much on account of their punishment, as of the crime by which they had deserved
it. That they, in that year above all others, should have brought themselves to betray into
the hands of one, who, formerly a haughty tyrant, was now an exasperated exile, their country
recently delivered, their father its deliverer, the consulate which took its rise from the
Junian family, the fathers, the people, and all the gods and citizens of Rome. The consuls
advanced to take their seats, and the lictors were despatched to inflict punishment. The young
men were stripped naked, beaten with rods, and their heads struck off with the axe, while all
the time the looks and countenance of the father presented a touching spectacle, as his natural
feelings displayed themselves during the discharge of his duty in inflicting public punishment.
After the punishment of the guilty, that the example might be a striking one in both aspects
for the prevention of crime, a sum of money was granted out of the treasury as a reward to
the informer: liberty also and the rights of citizenship were conferred upon him. He is said
to have been the first person made free by the vindicta; some think that even the term vindicta
is derived from him, and that his name was Vindicius. [4] After him it was observed as a rule,
that all who were set free in this manner were considered to be admitted to the rights of Roman
citizens.

On receiving the announcement of these events as they had occurred, Tarquin, inflamed not only
with grief at the annihilation of such great hopes, but also with hatred and resentment, when
he saw that the way was blocked against stratagem, considering that war ought to be openly
resorted to, went round as a suppliant to the cities of Etruria, imploring above all the Veientines
and Tarquinians, not to suffer him, a man sprung from themselves, of the same stock, to perish
before their eyes, an exile and in want, together with his grown-up sons, after they had possessed
a kingdom recently so flourishing. That others had been invited to Rome from foreign lands
to succeed to the throne; that he, a king, while engaged in extending the Roman Empire by arms,
had been driven out by his nearest relatives by a villainous conspiracy, that they had seized
and divided his kingdom in portions among themselves, because no one individual among them
was deemed sufficiently deserving of it: and had given up his effects to the people to pillage,
that no one might be without a share in the guilt. That he was desirous of recovering his country
and his kingdom, and punishing his ungrateful subjects. Let them bring succour and aid him;
let them also avenge the wrongs done to them of old, the frequent slaughter of their legions,
the robbery of their land. His name and relationship influenced the people of Tarquinii, for
it seemed a high honour that their countrymen should reign at Rome. Accordingly, the armies
of these two states followed Tarquin to aid in the recovery of his kingdom, and to take vengeance
upon the Romans in war. When they entered Roman territory, the consuls marched to meet the
enemy. Valerius led the infantry in a square battalion: Brutus marched in front with the cavalry
to reconnoitre. In like manner the enemy's horse formed the van of the army: Arruns Tarquinius,
the king's son, was in command: the king himself followed with the legions. Arruns, when he
knew at a distance by the lictors that it was a consul, and on drawing nearer more surely discovered
that it was Brutus by his face, inflamed with rage, cried out: "Yonder is the man who has driven
us into exile from our native country! See how he rides in state adorned with the insignia
of our rank! Now assist me, ye gods, the avengers of kings." He put spurs to his horse and
charged furiously against the consul. Brutus perceived that he was being attacked, and, as
it was honourable in those days for the generals to personally engage in battle, he accordingly
eagerly offered himself for combat. They charged with such furious animosity, neither of them
heedful of protecting his own person, provided he could wound his opponent, that each, pierced
through the buckler by his adversary's blow, fell from his horse in the throes of death, still
transfixed by the two spears. The engagement between the rest of the horse began at the same
time, and soon after the foot came up. There they fought with varying success, and as it were
with equal advantage. The right wings of both armies were victorious, the left worsted. The
Veientines, accustomed to defeat at the hands of the Roman soldiers, were routed and put to
flight. The Tarquinians, who were a new foe, not only stood their ground, but on their side
even forced the Romans to give way.

After the engagement had thus been fought, so great a terror seized Tarquinius and the Etruscans,
that both armies, the Veientine and Tarquinian, abandoning the attempt as a fruitless one,
departed by night to their respective homes. Strange incidents are also reported in the account
of this battle--that in the stillness of the next night a loud voice was heard from the Arsian
wood;[5] that it was believed to be the voice of Silvanus. That the following words were uttered:
that more of the Tuscans by one man had fallen in the fight: that the Romans were victorious
in the war. Under these circumstances, the Romans departed thence as conquerors, the Etruscans
as practically conquered. For as soon as it was light, and not one of the enemy was to be seen
anywhere, Publius Valerius, the consul, collected the spoils, and returned thence in triumph
to Rome. He celebrated the funeral of his colleague with all the magnificence possible at the
time. But a far greater honour to his death was the public sorrow, especially remarkable in
this particular, that the matrons mourned him for a year as a parent, because he had shown
himself so vigorous an avenger of violated chastity. Afterward, the consul who survived--so
changeable are the minds of the people--after enjoying great popularity, encountered not only
jealousy, but suspicion, that originated with a monstrous charge. Report represented that he
was aspiring to kingly power, because he had not substituted a colleague in the room of Brutus,
and was building on the top of Mount Velia:[6] that an impregnable stronghold was being erected
there in an elevated and well-fortified position. These reports, widely circulated and believed,
disquieted the consul's mind at the unworthiness of the charge; and, having summoned the people
to an assembly, he mounted the platform, after lowering the fasces. It was a pleasing sight
to the multitude that the insignia of authority were lowered before them, and that acknowledgment
was made, that the dignity and power of the people were greater than that of the consul. Then,
after they had been bidden to listen, the consul highly extolled the good fortune of his colleague,
in that, after having delivered his country, he had died while still invested with the highest
rank, fighting in defence of the commonwealth, when his glory was at its height, and had not
yet turned to jealousy. He himself (said he) had outlived his glory, and only survived to incur
accusation and odium: that, from being the liberator of his country, he had fallen back to
the level of the Aquilii and Vitellii. "Will no merit then," said he, "ever be so approved
in your eyes as to be exempt from the attacks of suspicion? Was I to apprehend that I, that
bitterest enemy of kings, should myself have to submit to the charge of desiring kingly power?
Does your confidence in me rest on such slight foundations, that it matters more where I am
than what I am?

After this laws were proposed by the consul, such as not only freed him from all suspicion
of aiming at regal power, but had so contrary a tendency, that they even made him popular.
At this time he was surnamed Publicola. Above all, the laws regarding an appeal to the people
against the magistrates, and declaring accursed the life and property of any one who should
have formed the design of seizing regal authority,[8] were welcome to the people. Spurius Lucretius
was elected consul, who, owing to his great age, and his strength being inadequate to discharge
the consular duties, died within a few days. Marcus Horatius Pulvillus was chosen in the room
of Lucretius. My own belief is that, because no important event signalized his consulate, all
record of it has been lost. The Temple of Jupiter on the Capitol had not yet been dedicated;
the conuls Valerius and Horatius cast lots which should dedicate it. The duty fell by lot to
Horatius. Publicola departed to conduct the war against the Veientines. The friends of Valerius
were more annoyed than the circumstances demanded that the dedication of so celebrated a temple
was given to Horatius. Whether he did not believe that it was true, or whether he possessed
such great strength of mind, is neither handed down for certain, nor is it easy to decide.
On receiving the news, holding the door-post, without turning off his attention in any other
way from the business he was engaged completed the form of prayer, and dedicated the temple.
Such were the transactions at home and abroad during the first year after the expulsion of
the kings. After this Publius Valerius, for the second time, and Titus Lucretius were elected
consuls.

By this time the Tarquins had fled to Lars Porsina, King of Clusium. Porsina, thinking it a
great honour to the Tuscans both that there should be a king at Rome, and that one belonging
to the Etruscan nation, marched toward Rome with a hostile army. Never before on any other
occasion did such terror seize the senate; so powerful was the state of Clusium[9] at that
time, and so great the renown of Porsina. Nor did they dread their enemies only, but even their
own citizens, lest the common people of Rome, smitten with fear, should, by receiving the Tarquins
into the city, accept peace even at the price of slavery. Many concessions were therefore granted
to the people by the senate during that period by way of conciliating them. Their attention,
in the first place, was directed to the markets, and persons were sent, some to the country
of the Volscians, others to Cumae, to buy up corn. The privilege of selling salt also was withdrawn
from private individuals because it was sold at an exorbitant price, while all the expense
fell upon the state:[10] and the people were freed from duties and taxes, inasmuch as the rich,
since they were in a position to bear the burden, should contribute them; the poor, they said,
paid taxes enough if they brought up their children. This indulgence on the part of the fathers
accordingly kept the state so united during their subsequent adversity in time of siege and
famine, that the lowest as much as the highest abhorred the name of king; nor did any single
individual afterward gain such popularity by intriguing practices, as the whole body of the
senate at that time by their excellent government.

On the approach of the enemy, they all withdrew for protection from the country into the city,
and protected the city itself with military garrisons. Some parts seemed secured by the walls,
others by the Tiber between. He then strode to the front entrance of the bridge, and being
easily distinguished among those whose backs were seen as they gave way before the battle,
he struck the enemy with amazement by his surprising boldness as he faced round in arms to
engage the foe hand to hand. Afterward, as those who were cutting down the bridge called upon
them to retire, and only a small portion of it was left, he obliged them also to withdraw to
a place of safety. Then, casting his stern eyes threateningly upon all the nobles of the Etruscans,
he now challenged them singly, now reproached them all as the slaves of haughty tyrants, who,
unmindful of their own freedom, came to attack that of others. For a considerable time they
hesitated, looking round one upon another, waiting to begin the fight. Then Cocles said, "Father
Tiberinus, holy one, I pray thee, receive these arms, and this thy soldier, in thy favouring
stream." So, in full armour, just as he was, he leapedinto the Tiber, and, amid showers of
darts that fell upon him, swam across unharmed to his comrades, having dared a deed which is
likely to obtain more fame than belief with posterity.[12] The state showed itself grateful
toward such distinguished valour; a statue of him was erected in the comitium, and as much
land was given to him as he could draw a furrow round in one day with a plough. The zeal of
private individuals also was conspicuous in the midst of public honours. For, notwithstanding
the great scarcity, each person contributed something to him in proportion to his private means,
depriving himself of his own means of support.

Porsina, repulsed in his first attempt, having changed his plans to a siege of the city, and
a blockade, and pitched his camp in the plain and on the bank of the Tiber, placed a garrison
in the Janiculum. Then, sending for boats from all parts, both to guard the river, so as to
prevent any provisions being conveyed up stream to Rome, and also that his soldiers might get
across to plunder in different places as opportunity offered, in a short time he so harassed
all the country round Rome, that not only was everything else conveyed out of the country,
but even the cattle were driven into the city, and nobody ventured to drive them without the
gates. This liberty of action was granted to the Etruscans, not more from fear than from design:
for the consul Valerius, eager for an opportunity of falling unawares upon a number of them
together in loose order, careless of taking vengeance in trifling matters, reserved himself
as a serious avenger for more important occasions. And in fact they did learn by the information
of a deserter, and parties far more numerous than usual crossed the river in the hope of seizing
all the booty at once. Then Publius Valerius commanded Titus Herminius, with a small force,
to lie in ambush at the second milestone on the road to Gabii, and Spurius Larcius, with a
party of light-armed youths, to post himself at the Colline gate while the enemy was passing
by, and then to throw himself in their way to cut off their return to the river. The other
consul, Titus Lucretius, marched out of the Naevian gate with some companies of soldiers, while
Valerius himself led some chosen cohorts down from the Colan Mount. These were the first who
were seen by the enemy. Herminius, when he perceived the alarm, rushed from his ambush and
fell upon the rear of the Etruscans, who had turned against Valerius. The shout was returned
on the right and left, from the Colline gate on the one side and the Naevian on the other.

The blockade, however, was carried on none the less, and corn was both scarce and very dear.
Porsina still entertained the hope that, by continuing the blockade, he would be able to reduce
the city, when Gaius Mucius, a young noble, who considered it a disgrace that the Roman people,
who, even when in a state of slavery, while under the kings, had never been confined within
their walls during any war, or blockaded by any enemy, should now, when a free people, be blockaded
by these very Etruscans whose armies they had often routed--and thinking that such disgrace
ought to be avenged by some great and daring deed, at first designed on his own responsibility
to make his way into the enemy's camp. He set out with a dagger concealed under his garment.
When he reached the camp, he stationed himself where the crowd was thickest, near the king's
tribunal. There, as the soldiers happened to be receiving their pay, and the king's secretary,
sitting by him, similarly attired, was busily engaged, and generally addressed by the soldiers,
he killed the secretary, against whom chance blindly directed the blow, instead of the king,
being afraid to ask which of the two was Porsina, lest, by displaying his ignorance of the
king, he should disclose who he himself was. As he was moving off in the direction where with
his bloody dagger he had made a way for himself through the dismayed multitude, the crowd ran
up on hearing the noise, and he was immediately seized and brought back by the king's guards:
being set before the king's tribunal, even then, amid the perilous fortune that threatened
him, more capable of inspiring dread than of feeling it, "I am," said he, "a Roman citizen;
men call me Gaius Mucius; an enemy, I wished to slay an enemy, nor have I less courage to suffer
death than I had to inflict it. Both to do and to suffer bravely is a Roman's part. Nor have
I alone harboured such feelings toward you; there follows after me a long succession of aspirants
to the same honour. Therefore, if you choose, prepare yourself for this peril, to be in danger
of your life from hour to hour: to find the sword and the enemy at the very entrance of your
tent: such is the war we, the youth of Rome, declare against you; dread not an army in the
field, nor a battle; you will have to contend alone and with each of us one by one." When the
king, furious with rage, and at the same time terrified at the danger, threateningly commanded
fires to be kindled about him, if he did not speedily disclose the plots, at which in his threats
he had darkly hinted, Mucius said, "See here, that you may understand of how little account
the body is to those who have great glory in view"; and immediately thrust his right hand into
the fire that was lighted for sacrifice. When he allowed it to burn as if his spirit were quite
insensible to any feeling of pain, the king, well-nigh astounded at this surprising sight,
leaped from his seat and commanded the young man to be removed from the altar. "Depart," said
he, "thou who hast acted more like an enemy toward thyself than toward me. I would bid thee
go on and prosper in thy valour, if that valour were on the side of my country. I now dismiss
thee unharmed and unhurt, exempt from the right of war." The rest will be with you each in
his turn, according to the fortune that shall befall me who drew the first lot, until fortune
on some favourable opportunity shall have delivered you into their hands."

Mucius, to whom the surname of Scaevola[13] was afterward given from the loss of his right
hand, was let go and ambassadors from Porsina followed him to Rome. The danger of the first
attempt, in which nothing had protected him but the mistake of his secret assailant, and the
thought of the risk of life he would have to run so often in proportion to the number of surviving
conspirators that remained, made so strong an impression upon him that of his own accord he
offered terms of peace to the Romans. In these terms the restoration of the Tarquins to the
throne was proposed and discussed without success, rather because he felt he could not refuse
that to the Tarquins, than from ignorance that it would be refused him by the Romans. The fathers
bestowed upon Gaius Mucius, in reward for his valour, some land on the other side of the Tiber,
which was afterward called the Mucian meadows. By this honour paid to valour women also were
roused to deeds that brought glory to the state. Among others, a young woman named Claelia,
one of the hostages, escaped her keepers, and, as the camp of the Etruscans had been pitched
not far from the bank of the Tiber, swam over the river, amid the darts of the enemy, at the
head of a band of maidens, and brought them all back in safety to their relations at Rome.
When they had all been led forth, she is said to have picked out those below the age of puberty,
a choice which both reflected honour upon her maiden delicacy, and was one likely to be approved
of by consent of the hostages themselves--that those who were of such an age as was most exposed
to injury should above all others be delivered from the enemy. Peace being renewed, the Romans
rewarded this instance of bravery uncommon in a woman with an uncommon kind of honour: an equestrian
statue, which, representing a maiden sitting on horseback, was erected at the top of the Via
Sacra.[14]

The custom handed down from the ancients, and which has continued down to our times among other
usages at public sales, that of selling the goods of King Porsina, is inconsistent with this
account of so peaceful a departure of the Etruscan king from the city. The origin of this custom
must either have arisen during the war, and not been abandoned in time of peace, or it must
have grown from a milder beginning than the form of expression seems, on the face of it, to
indicate, of selling the goods as if taken from an enemy. Porsina, having abandoned the war
against the Romans, that his army might not seem to have been led into those parts to no purpose,
sent his son Arruns with part of his forces to besiege Aricia. The unexpected occurrence at
first terrified the Aricians: afterward aid, which had been sent for, both from the people
of Latium and from Cumæ,[15] inspired such hope that they ventured to try the issue of a pitched
battle. At the beginning of the battle the Etruscans attacked so furiously that they routed
the Aricians at the first onset. But the Cuman cohorts, employing stratagem against force,
moved off a little to one side, and when the enemy were carried beyond them in loose array,
they wheeled round and attacked them in the rear. By this means the Etruscans, when on the
point of victory, were hemmed in and cut to pieces. A very small number of them, having lost
their general, and having no nearer refuge, came to Rome without their arms, in the plight
and guise of suppliants. There they were kindly received and distributed in different lodgings.
When their wounds had been attended to, some with. Affection for their hosts and for the city
caused many others to remain at Rome: a quarter was assigned them to dwell in, which has ever
since been called the Tuscan Street.[16]

Spurius Lucretius and Publius Valerius Publicola were next elected consuls. In that year ambassadors
came from Porsina for the last time, to discuss the restoration of Tarquin to the throne. That
the Roman people were not now under a kingly government, but in the enjoyment of freedom, and
were accordingly resolved to open their gates to enemies sooner than to kings. To kindly words
he added deeds still more friendly: he delivered up the remainder of the hostages, and restored
to them the land of the Veientines, which had been taken from them by the treaty concluded
at the Janiculum. Tarquin, now that all hope of return was cut off, went into exile to Tusculum
[17] to his son-in-law Octavius Mamilius. Thus a lasting peace was concluded between Porsina
and the Romans.

The next consuls were Marcus Valerius and Publius Postumius. A disturbance that arose among
the Sabines between the advocates of war and of peace transferred considerable strength from
them to the Romans. For Attius Clausus, who was afterward called Appius Claudius at Rome, being
himself an advocate of peace, when hard pressed by the agitators for war, and being no match
for the party, fled from Regillum to Rome, accompanied by a great number of dependents. The
rights of citizenship and land on the other side of the Anio were bestowed on them. This settlement
was called the old Claudian tribe, and was subsequently increased by the addition of new tribesmen
who kept arriving from that district. Nor, after the battle was over, did they refrain from
slaughter any more than when it was going on: the number of the slain was considerably greater
than that of the prisoners, and the latter they put to death indiscriminately. Nor did the
wrath of war spare even the hostages, three hundred in number, whom they had received. This
year also the consuls celebrated a triumph at Rome.

The succeeding consuls, Opiter Verginius and Spurius Cassius, first endeavoured to take Pometia
by storm, and afterward by means of mantlets [20] and other works. Having fired the mantlets,
slain and wounded many of the enemy, they almost succeeded in slaying one of the consuls, who
had been thrown from his horse and severely wounded: which of them it was, authorities do not
mention. Upon this the Romans returned to the city unsuccessful: the consul was taken back
with many more wounded, with doubtful hope of his recovery. After a short interval, sufficient
for attending to their wounds and recruiting their army, they attacked Pometia with greater
fury and increased strength. When, after the mantlets and the other military works had been
repaired, the soldiers were on the point of mounting the walls, the town surrendered. Their
fears were further increased, because it was known for certain that thirty different states
had already entered into a confederacy against them, at the instigation of Octavius Mamilius.
While the state was troubled during the expectation of such important events, the idea of nominating
a dictator was mentioned for the first time.

But in what year, or who the consuls were in whom confidence was not reposed, because they
belonged to the party of the Tarquins--for that also is reported--or who was elected dictator
for the first time, is not satisfactorily established. For this reason, I am more inclined
to believe that Larcius, who was of consular rank, was attached to the consuls as their director
and superior, rather than Manius Valerius, the son of Marcus and grandson of Volesus, who had
not vet been consul. For neither, as was the case under the consuls, who possessed equal power,
could the assistance of one of them be invoked, nor was there any appeal, nor any chance of
redress but in attentive submission. The creation of a dictator at Rome also terrified the
Sabines, and the more so because they thought he was created on their account. Accordingly,
they sent ambassadors to treat concerning peace. To these, when they earnestly entreated the
dictator and senate to pardon a youthful offence, the answer was given, that the young men
might be forgiven, but not the old, seeing that they were continually stirring up one war after
another.

Servius Sulpicius and Manius Tullius were consuls the next year: nothing worth mentioning happened.
Titus Aebutius and Gaius Vetusius succeeded. For the generals were present not only to direct
matters by their instructions, but, exposing their own persons, they met in combat. And there
was hardly one of the principal officers of either army who came off unwounded, except the
Roman dictator. In like manner, on the other wing, Aebutius, master of the horse, had charged
Octavius Mamilius; nor was his approach unobserved by the Etruscan general, who in like manner
spurred his horse against him. And such was their impetuosity as they advanced with lances
couched, that Aebutius was pierced through the arm and Mamilius run through the breast. This
body, inasmuch as they fought with greater fury, owing to the loss of their country, and the
seizure of their estates, for a while revived the battle.

When the Romans were now beginning to give ground in that quarter, Marcus Valerius, brother
of Publicola, having observed young Tarquin boldly parading himself at the head of his exiles,
fired besides with the renown of his house, that the family, which had gained glory by having
expelled the kings, might also have the glory of destroying them, put spurs to his horse, and
with his javelin couched made toward Tarquin. Tarquin retreated before his infuriated foe to
a battalion of his own men. As Valerius rode rashly into the line of the exiles, one of them
attacked him and ran him sideways through the body, and as the horse was in no way impeded
by the wound of his rider, the Roman sank to the ground expiring, with his arms falling over
his body. Then the dictator hurried up to the cavalry, entreating them, as the infantry were
tired out, to dismount and take up the fight. They obeyed his orders, dismounted, flew to the
front, and, taking the place of the first line, covered themselves with their targets. The
infantry immediately recovered their courage when they saw the young nobles sustaining a share
of the danger with them, the mode of fighting being now the same for all. Then at length the
Latins were beaten back, and their line, disheartened, gave way. For the next three years there
was neither settled peace nor open war. The consuls were Q. Cloelius and T. Larcius. They were
succeeded by A. Sempronius and M. Minucius. During their consulship a temple was dedicated
to Saturn and the festival of the Saturnalia instituted. The next consuls were A. Postumius
and T. Verginius. I find in some authors this year given as the date of the battle at Lake
Regillus, and that A. Postumius laid down his consulship because the fidelity of his colleague
was suspected, on which a Dictator was appointed. So many errors as to dates occur, owing to
the order in which the consuls succeeded being variously given, that the remoteness in time
of both the events and the authorities make it impossible to determine either which consuls
succeeded which, or in what year any particular event occurred. Ap. Claudius and P. Servilius
were the next consuls. This year is memorable for the news of Tarquin's death. His death took
place at Cuma, whither he had retired, to seek the protection of the tyrant Aristodemus after
the power of the Latins was broken. The news was received with delight by both senate and plebs.
But the elation of the patricians was carried to excess. Up to that time they had treated the
commons with the utmost deference, now their leaders began to practice injustice upon them.
The same year a fresh batch of colonists was sent to complete the number at Signia, a colony
founded by King Tarquin. The number of tribes at Rome was increased to twenty-one. The temple
of Mercury was dedicated on May 15.

The relations with the Volscians during the Latin war were neither friendly nor openly hostile.
The Volscians had collected a force which they were intending to send to the aid of the Latins
had not the Dictator forestalled them by the rapidity of his movements, a rapidity due to his
anxiety to avoid a battle with the combined armies. To punish them the consuls led the legions
into the Volscian country. This unexpected movement paralysed the Volscians, who were not expecting
retribution for what had been only an intention. Unable to offer resistance, they gave as hostages
three hundred children belonging to their nobility, drawn from Cora and Pometia. The legions,
accordingly, were marched back without fighting. Relieved from the immediate danger, the Volscians
soon fell back on their old policy, and after forming an armed alliance with the Hernicans,
made secret preparations for war. They also despatched envoys through the length and breadth
of Latium to induce that nation to join them. But after their defeat at Lake Regillus the Latins
were so incensed against every one who advocated a resumption of hostilities that they did
not even spare the Volscian envoys, who were arrested and conducted to Rome. There they were
handed over to the consuls and evidence was produced showing that the Volscians and Hernicans
were preparing for war with Rome. When the matter was brought before the senate, they were
so gratified by the action of the Latins that they sent back six thousand prisoners who had
been sold into slavery, and also referred to the new magistrates the question of a treaty which
they had hitherto persistently refused to consider. The Latins congratulated themselves upon
the course they had adopted, and the advocates of peace were in high honour. They sent a golden
crown as a gift to the Capitoline Jupiter. The deputation who brought the gift were accompanied
by a large number of the released prisoners, who visited the houses where they had worked as
slaves to thank their former masters for the kindness and consideration shown them in their
misfortunes, and to form ties of hospitality with them. At no previous period had the Latin
nation been on more friendly terms both politically and personally with the Roman government.

But a war with the Volscians was imminent, and the State was torn with internal dissensions;
the patricians and the plebeians were bitterly hostile to one another, owing mainly to the
desperate condition of the debtors. They loudly complained that whilst fighting in the field
for liberty and empire they were oppressed and enslaved by their fellow-citizens at home; their
freedom was more secure in war than in peace, safer amongst the enemy than amongst their own
people. The discontent, which was becoming of itself continually more embittered, was still
further aggravated by the striking sufferings of an individual. A man advanced in years rushed
into the forum with the tokens of his utter misery upon him. His clothes were covered with
filth, his personal appearance still more pitiable, pale, and emaciated. In addition, a long
beard and hair gave a wild look to his countenance. Notwithstanding his wretched appearance
however, he was recognised, and people said that he had been a centurion, and, compassionating
him, recounted other distinctions that he had gained in war: he himself exhibited scars on
his breast in front, which bore witness to honourable battles in several places. He then showed
his back disfigured with the marks of recent scourging. At this sight and these words a great
uproar arose. The tumult now no longer confined itself to the forum, but spread everywhere
through the entire city. The nexi,[25] both those who were imprisoned, and those who were now
at liberty, hurried into the streets from all quarters and implored the protection of the Quirites.
Nowhere was there lack of volunteers to join the disturbance. Very few of the senators, whom
chance had thrown in the way, were got together by the consuls; fear kept the rest away not
only from the senate-house, but even from the forum, and no business could be transacted owing
to their small attendance. Then indeed the people began to think they were being tricked, and
put off: and that such of the senators as absented themselves did so not through accident or
fear, but with the express purpose of obstructing business: that the consuls themselves were
shuffling, that their miseries were without doubt held up to ridicule. Matters had now almost
come to such a pass that not even the majesty of the consuls could restrain the violence of
the people.

Meanwhile an alarm of a more serious nature presented itself. They encouraged one another not
to give in their names,[27] declaring that it was better that all should perish together than
that they should perish alone. Let the patricians serve as soldiers; let the patricians take
up arms, so that those who reaped the advantages of war should also undergo its dangers. But
the senate, dejected and confounded by the double alarm they felt, inspired both by their own
countryman and by the enemy, entreated the consul Servilius, whose disposition was more inclined
to favour the people, that he would extricate the commonwealth, beset as it was with so great
terrors. Then the consul, having dismissed the senate, came forward into the assembly. He then
further gave his speech the stamp of sincerity by an edict, by which he ordained that no one
should detain a Roman citizen either in chains or in prison, so that he would thereby be deprived
of the opportunity of enrolling his name under the consuls, and that no one should either take
possession of or sell the goods of any soldier, while on service, or detain his children or
grandchildren in custody for debt. The consul led out his forces against the enemy, and pitched
his camp at a little distance from them. The sentinels on guard perceived them: the army was
called up, and, the signals being given, they ran to arms. At the very first onset the enemy
was routed; the fugitives were harassed in the rear, as far as the infantry were able to follow
them: the cavalry drove then in consternation up to their camp. The consul led back his victorious
army to Rome with the greatest renown to himself. On his departure for Rome, he was met by
the deputies of the Ecetrans, a tribe of the Volscians, who were alarmed for the safety of
their state after the capture of Pometia. By a decree of the senate peace was granted them,
but they were deprived of their land.

Immediately after this the Sabines also frightened the Romans: for it was rather an alarm than
a war. Aulus Postumius, who had been dictator in the Latin war, was immediately sent thither
with all the cavalry forces. The consul Servilius followed him with a picked body of infantry.
The cavalry cut off most of the stragglers; nor did the Sabine legions make any resistance
against the battalion of infantry when it came up with them. Tired both by their march and
nightly raids, surfeited with eating and drinking in the country houses, a great number of
them had scarcely sufficient strength to flee. Thus the Sabine war was heard of and finished
in a single night. On the following day, when all were sanguine that peace had been secured
in every quarter, ambassadors from the Auruncans presented themselves before the senate, threatening
to declare war unless the troops were withdrawn from the Volscian territory. The army of the
Auruncans had set out from home at the same time as the ambassadors, and the report that this
army had been seen not far from Aricia threw the Romans into such a state of confusion that
neither could the senate be consulted in regular form, nor could the Romans, while themselves
taking up arms, give a pacific answer to those who were advancing to attack them. They marched
to Aricia in hostile array, engaged with the Auruncans not far from that town and in one battle
the war was ended. A crowd gathered about Servilius: they threw his promises in his teeth,
severally upbraiding him with their services in war, and the scars they had received. They
called upon him either to lay the matter before the senate, or, as consul, to assist his fellow-citizens,
as commander, his soldiers. These remonstrances affected the consul, but the situation of affairs
obliged him to act in a shuffling manner: so completely had not only his colleague, but the
whole of the patrician party, enthusiastically taken up the opposite cause. The patricians
looked upon him as wanting in energy and a popularity-hunting consul, the people, as deceitful:
and it soon became evident that he had become as unpopular as Appius himself. A dispute had
arisen between the consuls, as to which of them should dedicate the Temple of Mercury. The
senate referred the matter from themselves to the people, and ordained that, to whichever of
them the task of dedication should be intrusted by order of the people, he should preside over
the markets, establish a guild of merchants,[28] and perform the ceremonies in presence of
the Pontifex Maximus. Neither could the decree of the consul be heard distinctly for the noise
and shouting, nor, when he had pronounced the decree, did any one obey it. Yet he declared
that the commonwealth was not entirely deserted, nor the consular authority altogether degraded;
that he, alone and unaided, would vindicate both his own dignity and that of the senators.
When day by day the mob, emboldened by license, stood round him, he commanded a noted ringleader
of the seditious outbreaks to be arrested. At length the consuls, so odious to the commons,
resigned office, Servilius liked by neither party, Appius highly esteemed by the senators.
But, when it was laid before them, they could not get them to consult upon it regularly; it
was received with an uproar on all sides, and by the indignant shouts of the fathers, at the
thought that the consuls threw on the senate the odium for that which should have been carried
out by consular authority. One man, like Appius Claudius--for such a one was of more value
than a consul--would have dispersed those private meetings in a moment. When the consuls, thus
rebuked, asked them what it was that they desired them to do, declaring that they would carry
it out with as much energy and vigour as the senators wished, the latter issued a decree that
they should push on the levy as briskly as possible declaring that the people had become insolent
from want of employment. When the senate had been dismissed, the consuls assembled the tribunal
and summoned the younger men by name. When none of them answered to his name, the people, crowding
round after the manner of a general assembly, declared that the people could no longer be imposed
on: that they should never enlist one single soldier unless the engagement made publicly with
the people were fulfilled: that liberty must be restored to each before arms should be given,
that so they might fight for their country and fellow-citizens, and not for lords and masters.
We demand that those who accuse us most loudly of cowardice shall assist us when holding the
levy; we will proceed according to the resolution of the most intrepid among you, since it
so pleases you." Returning to their tribunal, they purposely commanded one of the leaders of
the disturbance, who were in sight, to be summoned by name. When he stood without saying a
word, and a number of men stood round him in a ring, to prevent violence being offered, the
consuls sent a lictor to seize him, but he was thrust back by the people. Then, indeed, those
of the fathers who attended the consuls, exclaiming against it as an intolerable insult, hurried
down from the tribunal to assist the lictor. The senate, summoned in a tumultuous manner was
consulted in a manner still more tumultuous, those who had been beaten demanding an inquiry,
and the most violent of them attempting to carry their point, not so much by votes as by clamour
and bustle. At length, when their passion had subsided, and the consuls reproached them that
there was no more presence of mind in the senate than in the forum, the matter began to be
considered in order. Three different opinions were held. Publius Verginius was against extending
relief to all. He voted that they should consider only those who, relying on the promise of
Publius Servilius the consul, had served in the war against the Volscians, Auruncans, and Sabines.
Titus Larcius was of opinion, that it was not now a fitting time for services only to be rewarded:
that all the people were overwhelmed with debt, and that a stop could not be put to the evil,
unless measures were adopted for the benefit of all: nay, further, if the condition of different
parties were different discord would thereby rather be inflamed than healed. Then let me see
the man who will dare to strike a lictor, when he shall know that that person, whose authority
he has insulted, has sole and absolute power to flog and behead him."

To many the opinion of Appius appeared, as in fact it was, harsh and severe. On the other hand,
the proposals of Verginius and Larcius appeared injurious, from the precedent they established:
that of Larcius they considered especially so, as one that would destroy all credit. The advice
of Verginius, was reckoned to be most moderate, and a happy medium between the other two. But
the consuls and elders of the senate took care that this command, in its own nature uncontrollable,
should be intrusted to a man of mild disposition. They elected Marcus Valerius son of Volesus,
dictator. The people, though they saw that this magistrate was appointed against themselves,
yet, as they possessed the right of appeal by his brother's law, had nothing harsh or tyrannical
to fear from that family. Afterward an edict published by the dictator, which was almost identical
in terms with that of the consul Servilius, further inspirited them. But, thinking reliance
could be more safely placed both in the man and in his authority,[29] they abandoned the struggle
and gave in their names. Ten legions were raised, a larger army than had ever been raised before.[30]
Of these, each of the consuls had three legions assigned him; the dictator commanded four.

The war could not now be any longer deferred. Vetusius the consul was sent to their assistance:
thereby a stop was put to the raids. The Aequans retired from the plains, and depending more
on the advantages of position than on their arms, secured themselves on the heights of the
mountains. The other consul, having set out against the Volscians, lest he in like manner might
waste time,[31] provoked the enemy to pitch their camp nearer, and to risk a regular engagement,
by ravaging their lands. Both armies stood ready to advance, in front of their lines, in hostile
array, in a plain between the two camps. The Volscians had considerably the advantage in numbers:
accordingly, they entered into battle in loose order, and in a spirit of contempt. The Roman
consul neither advanced his forces, nor allowed the enemy's shouts to be returned, but ordered
his men to stand with their spears fixed in the ground, and whenever the enemy came to a hand-to-hand
encounter, to draw their swords, and attacking them with all their force, to carry on the fight.
The Volscians, wearied with running and shouting attacked the Romans, who appeared to them
paralyzed with fear; but when they perceived the vigorous resistance that was made, and saw
the swords glittering before their eyes, just as if they had fallen into an ambuscade, they
turned and fled in confusion. Nor had they sufficient strength even to flee as they had entered
into action at full speed. The Romans, on the other hand, as they had quietly stood their ground
at the beginning of the action, with physical vigour unimpaired, easily overtook the weary
foe, took their camp by assault, and, having driven them from it, pursued them to Velitrae,
[32] into which city conquered and conquerors together rushed in one body. By the promiscuous
slaughter of all ranks, which there ensued, more blood was shed than in the battle itself.
Quarter was given to a few, who threw down their arms and surrendered.

While these operations were going on among the Volscians, the dictator routed the Sabines,
among whom by far the most important operations of the war were carried on, put them to flight,
and stripped them of their camp. By a charge of cavalry he had thrown the centre of the enemy's
line into confusion, in the part where, owing to the wings being extended too widely, they
had not properly strengthened their line with companies in the centre. The territory of Velitrae
was taken from the conquered Volscians: colonists were sent from Rome to Velitrae, and a colony
led out thither. Some considerable time afterward an engagement with the Aequans took place,
but against the wish of the consul, because they had to approach the enemy on unfavourable
ground: the soldiers, however, complaining that the affair was being purposely protracted,
in order that the dictator might resign his office before they themselves returned to the city,
and so his promises might come to nothing, like those of the consul before, forced him at all
hazards to march his army up the hills. This imprudent step, through the cowardice of the enemy,
turned out successful: for, before the Romans came within range, the Aequans, amazed at their
boldness, abandoned their camp, which they had pitched in a very strong position, and ran down
into the valleys that lay behind them. There abundant plunder was found: the victory was a
bloodless one. While military operations had thus proved successful in three quarters, neither
senators nor people had dismissed their anxiety in regard to the issue of domestic questions.
And when his report was disallowed, he said: "As a supporter of reconciliation, I am not approved
of. You will ere long wish, depend on it, that the commons of Rome had supporters like myself.
The reason was clear to the people: that he had resigned his office from indignation at their
treatment. Accordingly, as if his promise had been fully kept, since it had not been his fault
that his word had not been made good, they escorted him on his return home with favouring shouts
of acclamation. By this course of action the sedition was accelerated. On the other hand, how
long would the multitude which had seceded, remain quiet? Under these circumstances it was
resolved that Agrippa Menenius, an eloquent man, and a favourite with the people, because he
was sprung from them, should be sent to negotiate with them. Being admitted into the camp,
he is said to have simply related to them the following story in an old-fashioned and unpolished
style: "At the time when the parts of the human body did not, as now, all agree together, but
the several members had each their own counsel, and their own language, the other parts were
indignant that, while everything was provided for the gratification of the belly by their labour
and service, the belly, resting calmly in their midst, did nothing but enjoy the pleasures
afforded it. Thence it became apparent that the office of the belly as well was no idle one,
that it did not receive more nourishment than it supplied, sending, as it did, to all parts
of the body that blood from which we derive life and vigour, distributed equally through the
veins when perfected by the digestion of the food." [36] By drawing a comparison from this,
how like was the internal sedition of the body to the resentment of the people against the
senators, he succeeded in persuading the minds of the multitude.

Then the question of reconciliation began to be discussed, and a compromise was effected on
certain conditions: that the commons should have magistrates of their own, whose persons should
be inviolable, who should have the power of rendering assistance against the consuls, and that
no patrician should be permitted to hold that office. Accordingly, two tribunes of the commons
were created, Gaius Licinius and Lucius Albinus. These created three colleagues for themselves.
It is clear that among these was Sicinius, the ring-leader of the sedition; with respect to
the other two, there is less agreement who they were. There are some who say that only two
tribunes were elected on the Sacred Mount and that there the lex sacrata [37] was passed.

During the secession of the commons, Spurius Cassius and Postumus Cominius entered on the consulship.
During their consulate, a treaty was concluded with the Latin states. To ratify this, one of
the consuls remained at Rome: the other, who was sent to take command in the Volscian war,
routed and put to flight the Volscians of Antium,[38] and pursuing them till they had been
driven into the town of Longula, took possession of the walls. Next he took Polusca, also a
city of the Volscians: he then attacked Corioli [39] with great violence. There was at that
time in the camp, among the young nobles, Gnaeus Marcius, a youth distinguished both for intelligence
and courage, who was afterward surnamed Coriolanus. While the Roman army was besieging Corioli,
devoting all its attention to the townspeople, who were kept, shut up within the walls, and
there was no apprehension of attack threatening from without, the Volscian legions, setting
out from Antium, suddenly attacked them, and the enemy sallied forth at the same time from
the town. Marcius at that time happened to be on guard. Upon this, the shouts of the townsmen,
mingled with the wailings of the women and children occasioned at first by fright, as is usually
the case, both increased the courage of the Romans, and naturally dispirited the Volscians
who had come to bring help, seeing that the city was taken. The people buried him by the contribution
of a sextans [40] per man.

Titus Geganius and Publius Minucius were next elected consuls. In this year, when abroad there
was complete rest from war, and at home dissensions were healed, another far more serious evil
fell upon the state: first, dearness of provisions, a consequence of the lands lying untilled
owing to the secession of the commons; then a famine, such as attacks those who are besieged.
To such an extent had the hatred of their neighbours obliged them to stand in need of assistance
from distant countries. When corn had been bought up at Cumae, the ships were detained as security
for the property of the Tarquinians by the tyrant Aristodemus, who was their heir. In such
straitened resources they would have been harassed by a most inopportune war, had not a dreadful
pestilence attacked the Volscians when on the point of beginning hostilities. The minds of
the enemy being so terrified by this calamity, that they felt a certain alarm, even after it
had abated the Romans both augmented the number of their colonists at Velitrae, and despatched
a new colony to the mountains Of Norba [41] to serve as a stronghold in the Pomptine district.
That in him a new executioner had arisen, one to bid them either die or be slaves. They resisted,
however, in spite of opposing odium, and exerted, collectively, the powers of the whole order,
as well as, individually, each his own. At first, an attempt was made to see if, by posting
their clients [42] in several places, they could quash the whole affair, by deterring individuals
from attending meetings and cabals. Then they all proceeded in a body--one would have said
that all the senators were on their trial--earnestly entreating the commons that, if they would
not acquit an innocent man, they would at least for their sake pardon, assuming him guilty,
one citizen, one senator. As he did not attend in person on the day appointed, they persisted
in their resentment. He enjoyed the hospitality of Attius Tullius, who was at that time by
far the chief man of the Volscian people, and had always been a determined enemy of the Romans.
Thus, while long-standing animosity stimulated the one and recent resentment the other, they
concerted schemes for bringing about a war with Rome.

It happened that preparations were being made at Rome for a renewal of the great games.[44]
The cause of this renewal was as follows: On the day of the games, in the morning when the
show had not yet begun, a certain head of a family had driven a slave of his through the middle
of the circus while he was being flogged, tied to the fork:[45] after this the games had been
begun, as if the matter had nothing to do with any religious difficulty. Soon afterward Titus
Latinius, a plebeian, had a dream, in which Jupiter appeared to him and said that the person
who danced before the games had displeased him; unless those games were renewed on a splendid
scale, danger would threaten the city: let him go and announce this to the consuls. Though
his mind was not altogether free from religious awe, his reverence for the dignity of the magistrates,
lest he might become a subject for ridicule in the mouths of all, overcame his religious fear.
This delay cost him dear, for he lost his son within a few days; and, that there might be no
doubt about the cause of this sudden calamity, the same vision, presenting itself to him in
the midst of his sorrow of heart, seemed to ask him, whether he had been sufficiently requited
for his contempt of the deity; that a still heavier penalty threatened him, unless he went
immediately and delivered the message to the consuls. The matter was now still more urgent.
While, however, he still delayed and kept putting it off, he was attacked by a severe stroke
of disease, a sudden paralysis. Then indeed the anger of the gods frightened him. Wearied out
therefore by his past sufferings and by those that threatened him, he convened a meeting of
his friends and relatives, and, after he had detailed to them all he had seen and heard, and
the fact of Jupiter having so often presented himself to him in his sleep, and the threats
and anger of Heaven speedily fulfilled in his own calamities, he was, with the unhesitating
assent of all who were present, conveyed in a litter into the forum to the presence of the
consuls. From the forum, by order of the consuls, he was carried into the senate-house, and,
after he had recounted the same story to the senators, to the great surprise of all, behold
another miracle: he who had been carried into the senate-house deprived of the use of all his
limbs, is reported to have returned home on his own feet, after he had discharged his duty.

The senate decreed that the games should be celebrated on as magnificent a scale as possible.
To those games a great number of Volscians came at the suggestion of Attius Tullius. Before
the games had commenced, Tullius, as had been arranged privately with Marcius, approached the
consuls, and said that there were certain matters concerning the common-wealth about which
he wished to treat with them in private. When all witnesses had been ordered to retire, he
said: "I am reluctant to say anything of my countrymen that may seem disparaging. I do not,
however, come to accuse them of any crime actually committed by them, but to see to it that
they do not commit one. The minds of our people are far more fickle than I could wish. My mind
shudders at the thought that anything should be done inconsiderately and rashly. I have deemed
it right that these matters should be mentioned beforehand to you, consuls, both for your sakes
and ours. With regard to myself, it is my determination to depart hence home immediately, that
I may not be tainted with the suspicion of any word or deed if I remain." Having said this,
he departed. They were at first smitten with great panic, as they ran in different directions
to their lodgings to carry away their effects.

As they went along in an almost unbroken line, Tullius, who had preceded them to the fountain
of Ferentina, [46]received the chief men, as each arrived, and, complaining and giving vent
to expressions of indignation, led both those, who eagerly listened to language that favoured
their resentment, and through them the rest of the multitude, into a plain adjoining the road.
There, having begun an address after the manner of a public harangue, he said: "Though you
were to forget the former wrongs inflicted upon you by the Roman people, the calamities of
the nation of the Volscians, and all other such matters, with what feelings, pray, do you regard
this outrage offered you to-day, whereby they have opened the games by insulting us? Did you
not feel that a triumph has been gained over you this day? That you, when leaving, were the
observed of all, citizens, foreigners, and so many neighbouring states? That your wives, your
children were led in mockery before the eyes of men? What do you suppose were the feelings
of those who heard the voice of the crier? what of those who saw us departing? What of those
who met this ignominious cavalcade? What, except that it is assuredly a matter of some offence
against the gods: and that, because, if we were present at the show, we should profane the
games, and be guilty of an act that would need expiation, for this reason we are driven away
from the dwellings of these pious people, from their meeting and assembly? What then? Thus,
being both on their own account filled with resentment, and further incited by this harangue,
they severally departed to their homes, and by stirring up each his own state, succeeded in
bringing about the revolt of the entire Volscian nation.

The generals selected to take command in that war by theunanimous choice of all the states
were Attius Tullius and Gnaeus Marcius, an exile from Rome, in the latter of whom far greater
hopes were reposed. These hopes he by no means disappointed, so that it was clearly seen that
the Roman commonwealth was powerful by reason of its generals rather than its military force.
Spurius Nautius and Sextus Furius were now consuls. The same envoys, being sent a second time,
were not admitted into the camp. It is recorded that the priests also, arrayed in the vestments
of their office, went as suppliants to the enemy's camp, but that they did not influence his
mind any more than the ambassadors. Then, having embraced his family, he sent them away; he
himself withdrew his camp from the city. After he had drawn off his troops from Roman territory,
they say that he died overwhelmed by the hatred excited against him on account of this act;
different writers give different accounts of his death: I find in Fabius,[48] far the most
ancient authority, that he lived to an advanced age: at any rate, this writer states, that
in his old age he often made use of the expression, "that exile was far more miserable to the
aged." The men of Rome were not grudging in the award of their due praise to the women, so
truly did they live without disparaging the merit of others: a temple was built, and dedicated
to female Fortune, to serve also as a record of the event.

The Volscians afterward returned, having been joined by the Aequans, into Roman territory:
the latter, however, would no longer have Attius Tullius as their leader; hence from a dispute,
whether the Volscians or the Aequans should give the general to the allied army, a quarrel,
and afterward a furious battle, broke out. Titus Sicinius and Gaius Aquilius were made consuls.
The Volscians fell to Sicinius as his province; the Hernicans--for they, too, were in arms--to
Aquilius. That year the Hernicans were completely defeated; they met and parted with the Volscians
without any advantage being gained on either side.

Spurius Cassius and Proculus Verginius were next made consuls; a treaty was concluded with
the Hernicans; two thirds of their land were taken from them: of this the consul Cassius proposed
to distribute one half among the Latins, the other half among the commons. Else why were it
that the allies were thus included, and the Latin nation? What was the object of a third of
the land that had been taken being restored to the Hernicans, so lately their enemies, except
that those nations might have Cassius for their leader instead of Coriolanus?

The resentment of the people against Cassius was not lasting. The charm of the agrarian law,
now that its proposer was removed, of itself entered their minds: and their desire of it was
further kindled by the meanness of the senators, who, after the Volscians and Æquans had been
completely defeated in that year, defrauded the soldiers of their share of the booty; whatever
was taken from the enemy, was sold by the consul Fabius, and the proceeds lodged in the public
treasury. All who bore the name of Fabius became odious to the commons on account of the last
consul: the patricians, however, succeeded in getting Cæso Fabius elected consul with Lucius
Æmilius. The commons, still further aggravated at this, provoked war abroad by exciting disturbance
at home;[52] in consequence of the war civil dissensions were then discontinued. Patricians
and commons uniting, under the command of Æmilius, overcame the Volscians and Æquans, who renewed
hostilities, in a successful engagement. The retreat, however, destroyed more of the enemy
than the battle; so perseveringly did the cavalry pursue them when routed. The tribunes of
the people endeavoured to enhance their authority, in itself agreeable to the people, by promoting
a popular law. That portion of the commonwealth therefore prevailed; and not for the moment
only, but for the coming year also they succeeded in securing the election of Marcus Fabius,
Cæso's brother, as consul, and one still more detested by the commons for his persecution of
Cassius--namely, Lucius Valerius. In that year also was a contest with the tribunes. The law
came to nothing, and the supporters of the law proved to be mere boasters, by their frequent
promises of a gift that was never granted. The Fabian name was thenceforward held in high repute,
after three successive consulates, and all as it were uniformly tested in contending with the
tribunes; accordingly, the honour remained for a considerable time in that family, as being
right well placed. A war with Veii was then begun: the Volscians also renewed hostilities;
but, while their strength was almost more than sufficient for foreign wars, they only abused
it by contending among themselves. The Æquans took up arms: the Veientines also invaded and
plundered the Roman territory: as the anxiety about these wars increased, Cæso Fabius and Spurius
Furius were appointed consuls. The Æquans were laying siege to Ortona, a Latin city. The Veientines,
now sated with plunder, threatened to besiege Rome itself. However, all the odium against the
tribunician power was directed against the author of this proceeding: and even his own colleagues
rose up against him as vigorously as the consuls; and by their assistance the consuls held
the levy. An army was raised for the two wars simultaneously; one was intrusted to Fabius to
be led against the Veientines, the other to Furius to operate against the Æquans. In regard
to the latter, indeed, nothing took place worthy of mention. Without orders they faced about,
and with a sorrowful air (one would have thought them defeated) they returned to camp, execrating
at one time their general, at another the vigour displayed by the cavalry. They elected Marcus
Fabius consul; Gnaeus Manlius was assigned as a colleague to Fabius.

This year also found a tribune to support an agrarian law. They then set out to the war against
Veii, to which auxiliaries had assembled from all parts of Etruria, not so much influenced
by feelings of regard for the Veientines, as because they had formed a hope that the power
of Rome could be destroyed by internal discord.

The Roman consuls also dreaded nothing else but their own strength and their own arms. The
recollection of the most mischievous precedent set in the last war was a terrible warning to
them not to let matters go so far that they would have two armies to fear at the same time.
Accordingly, they kept within their camp, avoiding battle, owing to the two-fold danger that
threatened them, thinking that length of time and circumstances themselves would perchance
soften down resentment, and bring them to a healthy frame of mind. Besides this they uttered
insinuations, partly true and partly false, as to the upstart nature of their race and origin.
For they supposed that they could insult them with impunity; that the soldiers were not trusted
with arms; that the affair would explode in a violent mutiny; that an end had come to the Roman
Empire. Relying on these hopes, they ran up to the gates, heaped abuse on the Romans, and with
difficulty refrained from assaulting the camp. Then indeed the Romans could no longer endure
their insults: they ran from every quarter of the camp to the consuls: they no longer, as formerly,
put forth their demands with reserve, through the mediation of the centurions of the first
rank, but all proceeded indiscriminately with loud clamours. The affair was now ripe; yet still
they hesitated. He invoked upon himself, should he deceive them, the wrath of Father Jove,
Mars Gradivus, and the other gods. After him in succession the whole army severally took the
same oath. After they had been sworn, the signal was given: they took up arms and marched into
battle, full of rage and of hope. They bade the Etruscans now utter their reproaches: now severally
demanded that the enemy, so ready of tongue, should face them, now that they were armed. On
that day, both commons and patricians alike showed distinguished bravery: the Fabian family
shone forth most conspicuous: they were determined to recover in that battle the affections
of the commons, estranged by many civil contests.

The army was drawn up in order of battle; nor did the Veientine foe and the Etruscan legions
decline the contest. They entertained an almost certain hope that the Romans would no more
fight with them than they had with the Aequans; that even some more serious attempt was not
to be despaired of, considering the sorely irritated state of their feelings, and the critical
condition of affairs. The result turned out altogether different: for never before in any other
war did the Roman soldiers enter the field with greater fury, so exasperated were they by the
taunts of the enemy on the one hand, and the dilatoriness of the consuls on the other. Before
the Etruscans had time to form their ranks, their javelins having been rather thrown away at
random, in the first confusion, than aimed at the enemy, the battle had become a hand-to-hand
encounter, even with swords, in which the fury of war rages most fiercely. Are you so afraid
of your most cowardly foes, rather than of Jupiter and Mars, by whom you have sworn? Well,
then, I, who have taken no oath, will either return victorious, or will fall fighting here
beside thee, Quintus Fabius." Then Caeso Fabius, the consul of the preceding year, addressed
the consul: "Brother, is it by these words you think you will prevail on them to fight? The
gods, by whom they have sworn, will bring it about. Let us also, as becomes men of noble birth,
as is worthy of the Fabian name, kindle the courage of the soldiers by fighting rather than
by exhortation." Thus the two Fabii rushed forward to the front with spears presented, and
carried the whole line with them.

The battle being thus restored in one quarter, Gnaeus Manlius, the consul, with no less ardour,
encouraged the fight on the other wing, where the course of the fortune of war was almost identical.
Manlius also showed himself in sight of all to restore the battle. The first missiles were
intercepted by those who stood around him; afterward their violence could not be withstood.
The consul fell, smitten with a mortal wound, and all around him were put to flight. The courage
of the Etruscans increased. The triumph thus declined was more illustrious than any triumph
actually enjoyed; so true it is, that glory refused at a fitting moment sometimes returns with
accumulated lustre. He next celebrated the two funerals of his colleague and brother, one after
the other, himself delivering the funeral oration over both, wherein, by yielding up to them
the praise that was his own due, he himself obtained the greatest share of it; and, not unmindful
of that which he had determined upon at the beginning of his consulate, namely, the regaining
the affection of the people, he distributed the wounded soldiers among the patricians to be
attended to. Most of them were given to the Fabii: nor were they treated with greater attention
anywhere else. From this time the Fabii began to be popular, and that not by aught save such
conduct as was beneficial to the state.

Accordingly, Caeso Fabius, having been elected consul with Titus Verginius not more with the
good-will of the senators than of the commons, gave no attention either to wars, or levies,
or anything else in preference, until, the hope of concord being now in some measure assured,
the feelings of the commons should be united with those of the senators at the earliest opportunity.
Accordingly, at the beginning of the year he proposed that before any tribune should stand
forth as a supporter of the agrarian law, the patricians themselves should be beforehand in
bestowing the gift unasked and making it their own: that they should distribute among the commons
the land taken from the enemy in as equal a proportion as possible; that it was but just that
those should enjoy it by whose blood and labour it had been won. The patricians rejected the
proposal with scorn: some even complained that the once vigorous spirit of Caeso was running
riot, and decaying through a surfeit of glory. There were afterward no party struggles in the
city. The Latins, however, were harassed by the incursions of the Aequans. Caeso being sent
thither with an army, crossed into the territory of the Aequans themselves to lay it waste.

However, a reverse was sustained at the hands of the Veientine foe owing to the rashness of
the other consul; and the army would have been all cut off, had not Caeso Fabius come to their
assistance in time. From that time there was neither peace nor war with the Veientines: their
mode of operation had now come very near to the form of brigandage. Thus the matter could neither
be dropped altogether, nor brought to a conclusion. Then the Fabian family approached the senate:
the consul spoke in the name of the family: "Conscript fathers, the Veientine war requires,
as you know, an unremitting rather than a strong defence. Do you attend to other wars: assign
the Fabii as enemies to the Veientines. We pledge ourselves that the majesty of the Roman name
shall be safe in that quarter. That war, as if it were a family matter, it is our determination
to conduct at our own private expense. The day following, the Fabii took up arms; they assembled
where they had been ordered. The consul, coming forth in his military robe, beheld the whole
family in the porch drawn up in order of march; being received into the centre, he ordered
the standards to be advanced. Never did an army march through the city, either smaller in number,
or more distinguished in renown and more admired by all. Three hundred and six soldiers, all
patricians, all of one family, not one of whom an honest senate would reject as a leader under
any circumstances whatever, proceeded on their march, threatening the Veientine state with
destruction by the might of a single family. A crowd followed, one part belonging to themselves,
consisting of their kinsmen and comrades, who contemplated no half measures, either as to their
hope or anxiety, but everything on a grand scale:[60] the other aroused by solicitude for the
public weal, unable to express their esteem and admiration. Having set out on their luckless
road by the right-hand arch of the Carmental gate,[61] they arrived at the river Cremera:[62]
this appeared a favourable situation for fortifying an outpost. Thus being driven back to the
Red Rocks [64]. (where they had pitched their camp), as suppliants they sued for peace; and,
after it was granted, owing to the natural inconsistency of their minds, they regretted it
even before the Roman garrison was withdrawn from the Cremera. At first the noise of their
shouts, spreading, terrified them; then weapons assailed them from every side: and, as the
Etruscans closed in, they also were compelled, hemmed in as they were by an unbroken body of
armed men, to form themselves into a square of narrower compass the more the enemy pressed
on: this circumstance rendered both their own scarcity of numbers noticeable and the superior
numbers of the Etruscans, whose ranks were crowded in a narrow space. Then, having abandoned
the plan of fighting, which they had directed with equal effort in every quarter, they all
turned their forces toward one point; straining every effort in that direction, both with their
arms and bodies, and forming themselves into a wedge, they forced a passage. Menenius was immediately
sent against the Tuscans, now elated with victory. There, although the Romans gained the upper
hand by only a trifling advantage, yet that contest rendered the soldiers more serviceable
for future battles by the restoration of their former courage.

Aulus Verginius and Spurius Servilius were next chosen consuls. They were afterward entrapped
by the same stratagem as that by which they had entrapped the Fabii: having pursued cattle
which had been intentionally driven on in all directions to decoy them, they fell into an ambuscade;
in proportion as they were more numerous,[68] the slaughter was greater. The Etruscans, hemmed
in between the two armies, and presenting their rear to the one and the other by turns, were
completely destroyed. Thus the Veientine war was crushed by a successful piece of audacity.
Then their minds once more became wanton from plenty and ease, and they sought at home their
former subjects of complaint, now that there was none abroad; the tribunes began to excite
the commons by their poisonous charm, the agrarian law: they roused them against the senators
who opposed it, and not only against them as a body, but against particular individuals. Quintus
Considius and Titus Genucius, the proposers of the agrarian law, appointed a day of trial for
Titus Menenius: the loss of the fort of Cremera, while the consul had his standing camp at
no great distance from thence, was the cause of his unpopularity. They say that he could not
brook disgrace and anguish of mind: and that, in consequence, he was carried off by disease.
Another senator, Spurius Servilius was soon after arraigned, as soon as he went out of office
a day of trial having been appointed for him by the tribunes, Lucius Caedicius and Titus Statius,
immediately at the beginning of the year, in the consulship of Gaius Nautius and Publius Valerius:
he did not, however, like Menenius, meet the attacks of the tribunes with supplications on
the part of himself and the patricians, but with firm reliance on his own integrity and his
personal popularity. The battle with the Tuscans at the Janiculum was also the charge brought
against him: but being a man of impetuous spirit, as he had formerly done in time of public
peril, so now in the danger which threatened himself, he dispelled it by boldly meeting it,
by confuting not only the tribunes but the commons also, in a haughty speech, and upbraiding
them with the condemnation and death of Titus Menenius, by the good offices of whose father
the commons had formerly been re-established, and now had those magistrates and enjoyed those
laws, by virtue of which they then acted so insolently: his colleague Verginius also, who was
brought forward as a witness, aided him by assigning to him a share of his own glory: however--so
had they changed their mind--the condemnation of Menenius was of greater service to him.

The contests at home were now concluded. A war against the Veientines, with whom the Sabines
had united their forces, broke out afresh. From within the camp the alarm spread also into
the city; the Veientines ran to arms in as great a panic as if Veii had been taken: some came
up to the support of the Sabines, others fell upon the Romans, who had directed all their force
against the camp. The custom, I suppose, was not approved of, that the allies should carry
on wars with their own forces and according to their own plans without a Roman general and
troops. There was no kind of injury and petty annoyance that was not practised against the
Volscians; they could not, however, be prevailed on to come to an engagement in the field.

Lucius Furius and Gaius Manlius were the next consuls. The Veientines fell to Manlius as his
province. No war, however, followed: a truce for forty years was granted them at their request,
but they were ordered to provide corn and pay for the soldiers. Disturbance at home immediately
followed in close succession on peace abroad: the commons were goaded by the spur employed
by the tribunes in the shape of the agrarian law. The consuls, no whit intimidated by the condemnation
of Menenius, nor by the danger of Servilius, resisted with their utmost might; Gnæus Genucius,
a tribune of the people, dragged the consuls before the court on their going out of office.
Lucius Æmilius and Opiter Verginius entered upon the consulate. If he stirred, if he regarded
the patricians at all, if he thought that there existed any other party in the state but the
commons, let him set before his eyes the banishment of Gnæeus Marcius, the condemnation and
death of Menenius. Fired by these words, the patricians from that time held their consultations
not in public, but in private houses, and remote from the knowledge of the majority, at which,
when this one point only was agreed on, that the accused must be rescued either by fair means
or foul, the most desperate proposals were most approved; nor did any deed, however daring,
lack a supporter.[71] Accordingly, on the day of trial, when the people stood in the forum
on tiptoe of expectation, they at first began to feel surprised that the tribune did not come
down; then, the delay now becoming more suspicious, they believed that he was hindered by the
nobles, and complained that the public cause was abandoned and betrayed. At length those who
had been waiting before the entrance of the tribune's residence announced that he had been
found dead in his house. As soon as rumour spread the news through the whole assembly, just
as an army disperses on the fall of its general, so did they scatter in different directions.

Immediately after this victory, that involved a most ruinous precedent, a levy was proclaimed;
and, the tribunes being now overawed, the consuls accomplished their object without any opposition.
Volero appealed to the tribunes. The men, excited, made ready as if for battle: and it was
clear that a general crisis was at hand, that no one would have respect for anything, either
public or private right. After that, the disturbance subsiding, having ordered the members
to be summoned to the senate, they complained of the insults offered to themselves, of the
violence of the people, of the daring conduct of Volero. After many violent measures had been
proposed, the older members prevailed, who did not approve of the rash behaviour of the commons
being met by the resentment of the patricians. The commons re-elected Volero as tribune. Immediately,
at the beginning of the year,[75]no other question took precedence of that regarding the law.
But like Volero, the originator of it, so his colleague, Lætorius, was both a more recent,
as well as a more energetic, supporter of it. His great renown in war made him overbearing,
because, in the age in which he lived, no one was more prompt in action. He was easily able
to disconcert Lætorius by discussing his right thus contemptuously.

The people were with difficulty pacified by Quinctius; the other consul with much more difficulty
by the patricians. The assembly of the people having been at length dismissed, the consuls
convened the senate; in which, though fear and resentment by turns had produced a diversity
of opinions, the more their minds were called off, by lapse of time, from passion to reflection,
the more adverse did they become to contentiousness, so that they returned thanks to Quinctius,
because it was owing to his exertions that the disturbance had been quieted.

Then for the first time the tribunes were elected in the comita tributa. Piso is the authority
for the statement that three were added to the number, as if there had been only two before.
He also gives the names of the tribunes, Gnæus Siccius, Lucius Numitorius, Marcus Duellius,
Spurius Icilius, Lucius Mecilius. During the disturbance at Rome, a war broke out with the
Volscians and Æquans, who had laid waste the country, so that, if any secession of the people
took place, they might find a refuge with them. Afterward, when matters were settled, they
moved back their camp. Appius Claudius was sent against the Volscians; the Æquans fell to Quinctius
as his province. Appius exhibited the same severity in war as at home, only more unrestrained,
because it was free from the control of the tribunes. He hated the commons with a hatred greater
than that inherited from his father: he had been defeated by them: when he had been chosen
consul as the only man able to oppose the influence of the tribunes, a law had been passed,
which former consuls had obstructed with less effect, amid hopes of the senators by no means
so great as those now placed in him. His resentment and indignation at this stirred his imperious
temper to harass the army by the severity of his command; it could not, however, be subdued
by any exercise of authority, with such a spirit of opposition were the soldiers filled. They
carried out all orders slowly, indolently, carelessly, and stubbornly: neither shame nor fear
restrained them.

None of these circumstances were unknown to the Volscians, and they pressed on with so much
the more vigour, hoping that the Roman soldiers would entertain the same spirit of opposition
against Appius as they had formerly exhibited against the consul Fabius. However, they showed
themselves still more embittered against Appius than against Fabius. Then they were compelled
to put forth their strength for battle, in order that the now victorious enemy might be dislodged
from their lines; while, however, it was sufficiently clear that the Roman soldiers were only
unwilling that the camp should be taken, in regard to all else they gloried in their own defeat
and disgrace. Yielding at last--since they gained nothing save a respite from punishment--having
prorogued the assembly, and given orders that their march should be proclaimed for the following
day, at daybreak he gave the signal for departure by sound of trumpet. At the very moment when
the army, having got clear of the camp, was forming itself, the Volscians, as if they had been
aroused by the same signal, fell upon those in the rear: from these the alarm spreading to
the van, threw both the battalions and companies into such a state of consternation, that neither
could the general's orders be distinctly heard, nor the lines drawn up. No one thought of anything
but flight. In such loose order did they make their way through heaps of dead bodies and arms,
that the enemy ceased their pursuit sooner than the Romans their flight. With respect to the
rest of the rank and file, every tenth man was drawn by lot for punishment. The whole of the
booty was given to the soldiers. No long interval elapsed: before, however, the appointed day
came, he died of some disease; and when the tribunes of the people endeavoured to put a stop
to his funeral panegyric, the commons would not allow the burial day of so great a man to be
defrauded of the customary honours: and they listened to his eulogy when dead as patiently
as they had listened to the charges brought against him when living, and attended his obsequies
in vast numbers.

In the same year the consul Valerius, having marched with an army against the Aequans, and
being unable to draw out the enemy to an engagement, proceeded to attack their camp. The other
consul, Aemilius, conducted the war in Sabine territory. There also, because the enemy confined
themselves within their walls, the lands were laid waste. The consuls, under the immediate
compulsion of the senate, led forth the youth from the city to war, and thereby rendered the
rest of the commons more quiet. And the enemy indeed, having merely filled the Romans with
fear that proved groundless, departed in great haste. Numicius marched to Antium against the
Volscians, Verginius against the Aequans. There, after they had nearly met with a great disaster
in an attack from an ambuscade, the bravery of the soldiers restored their fortunes, which
had been endangered through the carelessness of the consul. Affairs were conducted better in
the case of the Volscians. The public cause was also extremely well supported among the Volscians
by the exertions both of the general and the soldiers. Accordingly, about the third watch [81],
they came to attack the camp.

When the day dawned, the Romans, invigorated and having enjoyed a full sleep, on being marched
out to battle, at the first onset caused the Volscians to give way, wearied as they were from
standing and keeping watch: though indeed the enemy rather retired than were routed, because
in the rear there were hills to which the unbroken ranks behind the first line had a safe retreat.
The consul, when he came to the uneven ground, halted his army; the infantry were kept back
with difficulty; they loudly demanded to be allowed to pursue the discomfited foe. The cavalry
were more violent: crowding round the general, they cried out that they would proceed in front
of the first line. They were now on the point of gaining the summit of the hill, when the enemy
turned their backs, and pursued and pursuer at full speed rushed into the camp almost in one
body. During this panic the camp was taken; such of the Volscians as were able to make good
their escape, made for Antium. The Roman army also was led thither; after having been invested
for a few days, the town surrendered, not in consequence of any new efforts on the part of
the besiegers, but because the spirits of the inhabitants had sunk ever since the unsuccessful
battle and the loss of their camp.

[Footnote 1: The functions of the old priest-king were divided, the political being assigned
to the consuls, the duty of sacrificing to the newly-created rex sacrificulus, who was chosen
from the patricians: he was, nevertheless, subject to the control of the Pontifex Maximus,
by whom he was chosen from several nominees of the college of priests.]

[Footnote 2: This, of course applied only to patricians. Its ruins are on the coast north of
the Promontory of Miseno.--D.O.]

[Footnote 16: Leading from the forum to the Velabrum.]

[Footnote 17: It was situated in the Alban Hills about ten miles from Rome, on the site of
the modern Frascati.--D.O.]

[Footnote 18: Suessa-Pometia, mentioned in former note. Cora is now Cori.--D.O.]

[Footnote 19: Their home was in Campania.--D.O.]

[Footnote 20: Wooden roofs covered with earth or wet hides, and rolled forward on wheels for
the protection of those engaged in battering or mining the walls.--D.O.]

[Footnote 21: That is, the Romans'.]

[Footnote 22: Perhaps because the twenty-four axes of both consuls went to the dictator.--D.O.]

[Footnote 23: Now Palestrina]

[Footnote 24: See Macaulay's "Lays of Ancient Rome": The Battle of Lake Regillus.]

[Footnote 25: The bound (by the law of debt), from nexo, to join or connect.--D.O.]

[Footnote 26: That is, for allowing themselves to suffer it and yet fight for their oppressors.--D.O.]

[Footnote 27: For military service.]

[Footnote:28 Known as Mercuriales. Mercury was the patron of merchants.--D.O.]

[Footnote 29: That is, over the senate.--D.O.]

[Footnote 30: About 40,000 men.--D.O.]

[Footnote 31: That is, like Vetusius, watching the Aequans, who uncrippled were lying in their
mountain fastnesses in northern Latium, waiting a chance to renew their ravages.--D.O.]

[Footnote 32: Modern Velletri.]

[Footnote 33: a chair-shaped X .Its use was an insignia first of royalty, then of the higher
magistracies.--D.O.]

[Footnote 34: Supposed to be the hill beyond and to the right of the Ponte Nomentano.--D.O.]

[Footnote 35: Lucius Calpurnius Piso, the historian.]

[Footnote 36: This fable is of very great antiquity. Max Müller says it is found among the Hindus.]

[Footnote 37: The law which declared the persons of the tribunes inviolate and him who transgressed
it accursed.--D.O.]

[Footnote 38: Modern Anzio, south of Ostia on the coast of Latium.--D.O.]

[Footnote 39: Between Ardea and Aricia.]

[Footnote 40: The sixth part of the as, the Roman money unit, which represented a pound's weight
of copper.--D.O.]

[Footnote 41: Its ruins lie on the road to Terracina, near Norma, and about forty-five miles
from Rome.--D.O.]

[Footnote 42: The clientes formed a distinct class; they were the hereditary dependents of
certain patrician families (their patroni) to whom they were under various obligations; they
naturally sided with the patricians.]

[Footnote 43: Dionysius and Plutarch give an account of the prosecution much more favourable
to the defendant.--D. O.]

[Footnote 44: Celebrated annually in the Circus Maximus, September 4th to 12th, in honour of
Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva, or, according to some authorities, of Consus and Neptunus Equestus.--D.O.]

[Footnote 45: A >-shaped yoke placed on the slave's neck, with his hands tied to the ends.--D.O.]

[Footnote 46: In a grove at the foot of the Alban Hill.--D.O.]

[Footnote 47: There seems to be something wrong here, as Satricum, etc., were situated west
of the Via Appia, while Livy places them on the Via Latina. Niebuhr thinks that the words "passing
across ... Latin way," should be transposed, and inserted after the words "he then took in
succession." For the position of these towns, see Map.]

[Footnote 48: Quintus Fabius Pictor, the historian.--D.O.]

[Footnote 49: The ager publicus consisted of the landed estates which had belonged to the kings,
and were increased by land taken from enemies who had been conquered in war. The patricians,
having the chief political power, gained exclusive occupation (possessio) of this ager publicus,
for which they paid a nominal rent in the shape of produce and tithes. The nature of the charge
brought by Cassius was not the fact of its being occupied by privati, but by patricians to
the exclusion of plebeians.]

[Footnote 50: "Quaestors," this is the first mention of these officers in Livy; in early times
it appears to have been part of their duty to prosecute those who were guilty of treason, and
to carry out the punishment.]

[Footnote 51: On the west slope of the Esquiline.--D.O.]

[Footnote 52: There seems to be something wrong in the text here, as the subterfuge was distinctively
a patrician one, and the commons had nothing to gain and all to lose by it. If Livy means that
the commons provoked war by giving cause for the patricians to seek refuge in it, he certainly
puts it very vaguely.--D. O.]

[Footnote 53: July 15th.]

[Footnote 54: By being buried alive. The idea being that the ceremonies could not be duly performed
by an unchaste vestal.--D. O.]

[Footnote 55: By his power of veto.--D.O.]

[Footnote 56: These were veterans and formed the third line. The first were the "hastati,"
so called from their carrying long spears, which were later discarded for heavy javelins. The
second were the "principes," the main line.--D. O.]

[Footnote 57: The space assigned for the general's tent.--D. O.]

[Footnote 58: The legati of a general were at once his council of war and his staff.--D. O.]

[Footnote 59: There is much in the description of this battle not easy to understand, and I
am inclined to believe it was at least no better than drawn. The plundered camp, the defeat
of the triarii, and the failure to mention pursuit or consequences, all favour this supposition.--D.
O.]

[Footnote 60: It was to be victory or annihilation.--D. O.]

[Footnote 61: so called from the altar of Carmenta, which stood near it. It was located in
or near what is now the Piazza Montanara, and was always after considered a gate of evil omen.--D.
O.]

[Footnote 62: Now the Valchetta.--D. O.]

[Footnote 63: Probably of mercenaries, as the Veientines are alluded to throughout the paragraph
as commanding, and it was apparently not a case of alliance.--D. O.]

[Footnote 64: On the Via Flaminia (near the grotta rossa).]

[Footnote 65: This story has been much questioned by learned commentators. I see nothing improbable
in it if we pare down the exploits a little, and the evidence, such as it is all pro.--D.O.]

[Footnote 66: As this temple was about a mile from the city, it is probable the Romans were
defeated and that the second fight at the gate means simply that they repulsed an assault on
the walls.--D.O.]

[Footnote 67: That is, did not renew their assault on the walls.--D.O.]

[Footnote 68: Evidently only a small detatchment, since they were in condition to assault a
fortified consular camp despite their defeat.--D.O.]

[Footnote 69: The story of this war is much more doubtful than the exploit of the Fabii, and
Livy, as usual, furnishes the material for his own criticism.--D.O.]

[Footnote 70: After the manner of animals about to be sacrificed.--D.O.]

[Footnote 71: This was probably the origin of the "clubs" of young patricians, to which so
much of the later violance was due.--D.O.]

[Footnote 72: The lex sacrata, which declared their persons inviolate.--D.O.]

[Footnote 73: The assembly of the plebeians by tribes.--D.O.]

[Footnote 74: Of tribunes.]

[Footnote 75: The consular year.]

[Footnote 76: One of the rewards of good conduct was double rations.--D.O.]

[Footnote 77: That is, the contest to obtain the reform.--D.O.]

[Footnote 78: While the plebeians lost the dignity conferred on the assembly by the presence
of distinguished patricians, they gained nothing, as, in the mere matter of votes, they already
had a majority; and the patricians lost nothing, as the number of their votes would not be
sufficient to render them of much importance.]

[Footnote 79: There were other specific charges, but Livy confines himself to the spirit of
the prosecution.--D.O.]

[Footnote 80: The port of Antium, now Nettuno.--D.O.]

[Footnote 81: Midnight.--D. O.]

[Footnote 82: The rendering of the rest of this section is vague and unsatisfactory.--D. O.]

BOOK III

THE DECEMVIRATE

After the capture of Antium, Titus Æmilius and Quintus Fabius became consuls. This was the
Fabius who was the sole survivor of the family that had been annihilated at the Cremera. Æmilius
had already in his former consulship recommended the bestowal of land on the people. Accordingly,
in his second consulship also, both the advocates of the agrarian law encouraged themselves
to hope for the passing of the measure, and the tribunes took it up, thinking that a result,
that had been frequently attempted in opposition to the consuls, might be obtained now that
at any rate one consul supported it: the consul remained firm in his opinion. The possessors
of state land [1]--and these a considerable part of the patricians--transferred the odium of
the entire affair from the tribunes to the consul, complaining that a man, who held the first
office in the state, was busying himself with proposals more befitting the tribunes, and was
gaining popularity by making presents out of other people's property. A violent contest was
at hand; had not Fabius compromised the matter by a suggestion disagreeable to neither party.
This proposition was accepted. He secured the appointment of Titus Quinctius, Aulus Verginius,
and Publius Furius as triumvirs for distributing the land: such as wished to receive land were
ordered to give in their names.

In the following year Quintus Servilius (for he was consul with Spurius Postumius), being sent
against the Aequans, pitched his camp permanently in Latin territory: unavoidable inaction
held the army in check, since it was attacked by illness. The war was protracted to the third
year, when Quintus Fabius and Titus Quinctius were consuls. To Fabius, because he, as conqueror,
had granted peace to the Aequans that sphere of action was assigned in an unusual manner.[2]He,
setting out with a sure hope that his name and renown would reduce the Aequans to submission,
sent ambassadors to the council of the nation, and ordered them to announce that Quintus Fabius,
the consul, stated that he had brought peace to Rome from the Aequans, that from Rome he now
brought them war, with that same right hand, but now armed, which he had formerly given to
them in amity; that the gods were now witnesses, and would presently take vengeance on those
by whose perfidy and perjury that had come to pass. That he, however, be matters as they might,
even now preferred that the Aequans should repent of their own accord rather than suffer the
vengeance of an enemy. If they repented, they would have a safe retreat in the clemency they
had already experienced; but if they still took pleasure in perjury, they would wage war with
the gods enraged against them rather than their enemies. These words had so little effect on
any of them that the ambassadors were near being ill-treated, and an army was sent to Algidum[3]
against the Romans. When news of this was brought to Rome, the indignity of the affair, rather
than the danger, caused the other consul to be summoned from the city; thus two consular armies
advanced against the enemy in order of battle, intending to come to an engagement at once.
Tomorrow at sunrise return to the field: you shall have an opportunity of fighting, never fear."
The soldiers, stung by these taunts, were marched back into camp till the following day, thinking
that a long night was approaching, which would cause the contest to be delayed. Then indeed
they refreshed their bodies with food and sleep: on the following day, when it was light, the
Roman army took up their position some considerable time before. At length the Aequans also
advanced. The battle was hotly contested on both sides, because the Romans fought under the
influence of resentment and hatred, while the Aequans were compelled by a consciousness of
danger incurred by misconduct, and despair of any confidence being reposed in them hereafter,
to venture and to have recourse to the most desperate efforts. The Aequans, however, did not
withstand the attack of the Roman troops, and when, having been defeated, they had retired
to their own territories, the savage multitude, with feelings not at all more disposed to peace,
began to rebuke their leaders: that their fortunes had been intrusted to the hazard of a pitched
battle, in which mode of fighting the Romans were superior. That the Aequans were better adapted
for depredations and incursions, and that several parties, acting in different directions,
conducted wars with greater success than the unwieldy mass of a single army. Those who were
nearest carried to others the reports heard from these, reports vague and on that account more
groundless: and the hurry and clamour of those calling to arms bore no distant resemblance
to the panic that arises when a city has been taken by storm. Affairs were conducted with distinguished
success by the other consul; who, having attacked the enemy, where he knew that they would
arrive, laden with booty, and therefore marching with their army the more encumbered, caused
their depredation to prove their destruction. Few of the enemy escaped from the ambuscade;
all the booty was recovered. Thus the return of the consul Quinctius to the city put an end
to the suspension of business, which lasted four days. A census[4] was then held, and the lustrum
[Footnote: The ceremony of purification took place every five years, hence "Justrum" came to
be used for a period of five years.] closed by Quinctius: the number of citizens rated is said
to have been one hundred and four thousand seven hundred and fourteen, not counting orphans
of both sexes. Nothing memorable occurred afterward among the Æquans; they retired into their
towns, allowing their possessions to be consumed by fire and devastated. The consul, after
he had repeatedly carried devastation with a hostile army through the whole of the enemy's
country, returned to Rome with great glory and booty.

The next consuls were Aulus Postumius Albus and Spurius Furius Fusus. Furii is by some writers
written Fusii; this I mention, to prevent any one thinking that the change, which is only in
the names, is in the persons themselves. There was no doubt that one of the consuls was about
tobegin hostilities against the Æquans. After the Æquans had been driven into the towns, when
this rabble returned to Antium, it alienated from the Romans the colonists who were already
of their own accord disposed to treachery. The matter not yet being ripe, when it had been
announced to the senate that a revolt was intended, the consuls were charged to inquire what
was going on, the leading men of the colony being summoned to Rome. When they had attended
without reluctance, they were conducted before the senate by the consuls, and gave such answers
to the questions that were put to them that they were dismissed more suspected than they had come.

After this, war was regarded as inevitable. The Hernicans brought news both that an unsuccessful
battle had been fought, and that the consul and army were besieged; and inspired the senate
with such terror, that the other consul Postumius was charged to see to it that the commonwealth
took no harm,[5] a form of decree which has ever been deemed to be one of extreme urgency.

During those days many manoeuvres and many attacks were carried out on both sides, because
the enemy, having the advantage in numbers, attempted to harass the Roman forces by attacking
them on many sides, as not likely to prove sufficient to meet all attacks. There was no abatement
in any quarter either of vigilance or activity; watches were stationed in the city, outposts
before the gates, and guards along the walls: and a cessation of business was observed for
several days, as was necessary amid such general confusion. In the meantime the consul Furius,
after he had at first passively endured the siege in his camp, sallied forth through the main
gate[7] against the enemy when off their guard; and though he might have pursued them, he stopped
through apprehension, that an attack might be made on the camp from the other side. The lieutenant
Furius (he was also the consul's brother) was carried away too far in pursuit: nor did he,
in his eagerness to follow them up, observe eitherhis own party returning, or the attack of
the enemy on his rear: being thus shut out, having repeatedly made many unavailing efforts
to force his way to the camp, he fell, fighting bravely. This both damped the courage of his
own men, and increased the boldness of the enemy; who, being encouraged by the death of the
lieutenant, and by the consul's wound, could not afterward have been withstood by any force,
as the Romans, having been driven into their camp, were again being besieged, being a match
for them neither in hopes nor in strength, and the very existence of the state would have been
imperilled, had not Titus Quinctius come to their relief with foreign troops, the Latin and
Hernican army. He attacked the Aequans on their rear while their attention was fixed on the
Roman camp, and while they were insultingly displaying the head of the lieutenant: and, a sally
being made at the same time from the camp at a signal given by himself from a distance, he
surrounded a large force of the enemy. Of the Aequans in Roman territory the slaughter was
less, their flight more disorderly. As they straggled in different directions, driving their
plunder before them, Postumius attacked them in several places, where he had posted bodies
of troops in advantageous positions. They, while straying about and pursuing their flight in
great disorder, fell in with the victorious Quinctius as he was returning with the wounded
consul. After their return to Rome, the cessation of business was abandoned. After this the
Latin and Hernican cohorts were sent back to their respective homes, after they had been thanked
by the senate for their spirited conduct in war. The thousand soldiers from Antium were dismissed
almost with disgrace, because they had come after the battle too late to render assistance.

The elections were then held: Lucius Aebutius and Publius Servilius were elected consuls, and
entered on their office on the calends of August[8] according to the practice of beginning
the year on that date. It was an unhealthy season, and it so happened that the year [9] was
pestilential to the city and country, and not more to men than to cattle; and they themselves
increased the severity of the disease by admitting the cattle and the peasants into the city
in consequence of their dread of devastation. This collection of animals of every kind mingled
together both distressed the inhabitants of the city by the unusual stench, and also the peasants,
crowded together into their confined dwellings, by heat and want of sleep while their attendance
on each other, and actual contact helped to spread disease. While they were hardly able to
endure the calamities that pressed upon them, ambassadors from the Hernicans suddenly brought
word that the Aequans and Volscians had united their forces, and pitched their camp in their
territory: that from thence they were devastating their frontiers with an immense army. That
the city of Rome, through the sudden anger of the gods, was ravaged by disease. The enemy no
longer confined themselves to the Hernican territory. They proceeded thence with determined
hostility into the Roman territories, which were already devastated without the injuries of
war. Those senators, whose age and health permitted them, personally discharged the duty of
sentinels. The patrol and general supervision was assigned to the plebeian aediles: on them
devolved the chief conduct of affairs and the majesty of the consular authority. Besides the
fact that their own sufferings obliged each to do so, when summoned by public authority, they
filled all the shrines; the prostrate matrons in every quarter sweeping the temples with their
hair, begged for a remission of the divine displeasure, and a termination to the pestilence.
They entered on their consulship on the third day before the ides of August,[14] the state
being now strong enough not only to repel a a hostile attack, but even to act itself on the
offensive. Therefore when the Hernicans announced that the enemy had crossed over into their
boundaries, assistance was readily promised: two consular armies were enrolled. Veturius was
sent against the Volscians to carry on an offensive war. Tricipitinus, being posted to protect
the territory of the allies from devastation, proceeded no further than into the countryof
the Hernicans. Veturius routed and put the enemy to flight in the first engagement. A party
of plunderers, led over the Praenestine Mountains, and from thence sent down into the plains,
was unobserved by Lucretius, while he lay encamped among the Hernicans. Quintus Fabius was
in command of the city; he, having armed the young men and posted guards, made things secure
and tranquil. Accordingly, having attacked them with predetermined resolution, though with
considerably inferior forces, they routed and put to flight their numerous army, while smitten
with sudden panic, and having driven them into the deep valleys, where means of egress were
not easy, they surrounded them. There the power of the Volscians was almost entirely annihilated.
In some annals, I find that thirteen thousand four hundred and seventy fell in battle and in
flight that one thousand seven hundred and fifty were taken alive, that twenty-seven military
standards were captured: and although in accounts there may have been some exaggeration in
regard to numbers, undoubtedly great slaughter took place.

Thus the affairs of Rome returned to their former condition; and successes abroad immediately
excited commotions in the city. That he by his conduct was rendering, not the consular authority,
but the tribunician power hateful and insupportable; which, after having been in a state of
peace, and on good terms with the patricians, was now being brought back anew to its former
mischievous practices; nor did he beg of him not to proceed as he had begun. The tribunes conferred
with Terentilius, and the bill being to all appearance deferred, but in reality abandoned,
the consuls were immediately sent for.

On a sudden, however, that the same order of events might be renewed each year, the Hernicans
announced that the Volscians and the Æquans, in spite of their strength being much impaired,
were recruiting their armies: that the centre of events was situated at Antium; that the colonists
of Antium openly held councils at Ecetra: that there was the head--there was the strength--of
the war. As soon as this announcement was made in the senate, a levy was proclaimed: the consuls
were commanded to divide the management of the war between them; that the Volscians should
be the sphere of action of the one, the Æquans of the other. Thus spoke the tribunes.

But on the other side, the consuls, having placed their chairs[18] within view of them, were
holding the levy; thither the tribunes hastened down, and carried the assembly along with them;
a few [19] were summoned, as it were, by way of making an experiment, and instantly violence
ensued. The beginning of the riot was that the patricians refused to allow themselves to be
moved away, when the tribunes ordered the people to proceed to give their vote. Scarcely any
of the older citizens mixed themselves up in the affair, inasmuch as it was one that would
not be directed by prudence, but was entirely abandoned to temerity and daring. The consuls
also frequently kept out of the way, lest in the general confusion they might expose their
dignity to insult. There was one Cæso Quinctius, a youth who prided himself both on the nobility
of his descent, and his bodily stature and strength; to these endowments bestowed on him by
the gods, he himself had added many brave deeds in war, and eloquence in the forum; so that
no one in the state was considered readier either in speech or action. The accuser suffered
the accused to rush headlong to his ruin, and to fan the flame of odium and supply material
for the charges he intended to bring against him: in the meantime he proceeded with the law,
not so much in the hope of carrying it through, as with the object of provoking rash action
on the part of Cæso. After that many inconsiderate expressions and actions of the younger patricians
were put down to the temper of Cæso alone, owing to the suspicion with which he was regarded:
still the law was resisted. Also Aulus Verginius frequently remarked to the people: "Are you
now sensible, Quirites that you can not at the same time have Cæso as a fellow-citizen, and
the law which you desire? Though why do I speak of the law? He is a hindrance to your liberty;
he surpasses all the Tarquins in arrogance. Wait till that man is made consul or dictator,
whom, though but a private citizen, you now see exercising kingly power by his strength and
audacity." Many agreed, complaining that they had been beaten by him: and, moreover, urged
the tribune to go through with the prosecution. Titus Quinctius Capitolinus, who had been thrice
consul, recounting many splendid achievements of his own, and of his family, declared that
neither in the Quinctian family, nor in the Roman state, had there ever appeared such a promising
genius displaying such early valour. That he himself was the first under whom he had served,
that he had often in his sight fought against the enemy. Verginius ordered him to be seized
and dragged off to prison. The patricians opposed force to force. Titus Quinctius exclaimed
that a person for whom a day of trial for a capital offence had been appointed, and whose trial
was now close at hand, ought not to be outraged before he was condemned, and without a hearing.
The accused was detained in public custody until the patricians should be consulted: it was
decided that bail should be given: they bound each surety in the sum of three thousand asses;
how many sureties should be given was left to the tribunes; they fixed the number at ten: on
this number of sureties the prosecutor admitted the accused to bail.[22] He was the first who
gave public sureties. Being discharged from the forum, he went the following night into exile
among the Tuscans. When on the day of trial it was pleaded that he had withdrawn into voluntary
exile, nevertheless, at a meeting of the comitia under the presidency of Verginius, his colleagues,
when appealed to, dismissed the assembly: [23] the fine was rigorously exacted from his father,
so that, having sold all his effects, he lived for a considerable time in an out-of-the-way
cottage on the other side of the Tiber, as if in exile.

This trial and the proposal of the law gave full employment to the state: in regard to foreign
wars there was peace. By these artifices the law was evaded through the entire year. Those
who refused to join the conspiracy and take up arms with them were immediately massacred in
the citadel: others, during the disturbance, fled in headlong panic down to the forum: the
cries, "To arms!" and "The enemy are in the city!" were heard alternately. They gave out arms,
however, but not indiscriminately; only so that, as it was yet uncertain who the enemy were,
there might be a protection sufficiently reliable to meet all emergencies. The remainder of
the night they passed in posting guards in suitable places throughout the city, anxious and
uncertain who the enemy were, and how great their number. Daylight subsequently disclosed the
war and its leader. And it scarcely seemed that the evil could be resisted by harmony: no one
had any fear of tribunes or commons, while other troubles so predominated and threatened to
swamp the state: that fear seemed an evil of a mild nature, and one that always arose during
the cessation of other ills, and then appeared to be lulled to rest by external alarm. In the
meantime, the consuls convened the senate, another dread presenting itself by the action of
the tribunes, greater than that which the nightly foe had occasioned. When the enemy is over
our heads, is it your pleasure that we should give up our arms, and laws be proposed?" It was
now clear that matters would come to violent extremities, and that a quarrel among Romans would
be exhibited to the enemy. The law however could neither be carried, nor could the consul proceed
to the Capitol. While these measures were being taken in the forum for the purpose of appeasing
the disturbances, the consuls in the meantime had retired to visit the gates and the walls,
fearing that the Sabines or the Veientine enemy might bestir themselves. It was resolved that
assistance should be sent the young men were enrolled, and arms given them. On their way to
Rome at break of day, at a distance they exhibited the appearance of enemies. The Æquans or
Volscians were thought to be coming. Then, after the groundless alarm was removed, they were
admitted into the city and descended in a body into the forum. There Publius Valerius, having
left his colleague with the guards of the gates, was now drawing up his forces in order of
battle. The great influence of the man produced an effect on the people, when he declared that,
when the Capitol was recovered, and the city restored to peace, if they allowed themselves
to be convinced what hidden guile was contained in the law proposed by the tribunes, he, mindful
of his ancestors, mindful of his surname, and remembering that the duty of protecting the people
had been handed down to him as hereditary by his ancestors, would offer no obstruction to the
meeting of the people. Then the enemy began to be alarmed, and placed no dependence on anything
but their position. While they were in this state of alarm, the Romans and allies advanced
to attack them. Owing to their excitement and impetuosity, this great misfortune passed unnoticed
by the soldiers, they conquered before they perceived that they were fighting without a leader.
Many of the exiles defiled the temple with their blood; many were taken prisoners: Herdonius
was slain. Thus the Capitol was recovered. With respect to the prisoners, punishment was inflicted
on each according to his station, as he was a freeman or a slave. The Tusculans received the
thanks of the Romans: the Capitol was cleansed and purified. The commons are stated to have
thrown every man a farthing into the consul's house, that he might be buried with more splendid
obsequies. The consul asserted that he would not suffer the discussion of the law to proceed,
until he had appointed a colleague to assist him. These disputes lasted until the time of the
elections for the substitution of a consul. "Does that Aulus Verginius," said he, "deserve
less punishment than Appius Herdonius, because he was not in the Capitol? Considerably more,
by Hercules, if any one will look at the matter fairly. And did you--I will speak with all
due respect for Gaius Claudius and Publius Valerius, now no more--did you decide to advance
against the Capitoline Hill before you expelled those enemies from the forum? And do these
persons claim to be considered sacred and inviolable, to whom the gods themselves are neither
sacred nor inviolable? Now, first of all," said he, "Quirites, it is the intention of myself
and of my colleague to march the legions against the Volscians and the Aequans. The other consul,
a more ardent partner than promoter of a measure, readily allowing his colleague to take the
lead in measures of such importance, claimed to himself his share of the consular duty in carrying
these measures into execution. Then the tribunes, mocking these declarations as empty, went
on to ask how the consuls were going to lead out an army, seeing that no one would allow them
to hold a levy? This alarmed them: but the greatest anxiety which affected their minds was
because Quinctius frequently declared that he would not hold an election of consuls. That the
malady of the state was not of an ordinary nature, so that it could be stopped by the ordinary
remedies. That the commonwealth required a dictator, so that whoever attempted to disturb the
condition of the state, might feel that from the dictatorship there was no appeal.

The senate was assembled in the Capitol. Thither the tribunes came with the commons in a state
of great consternation: the multitude, with loud clamours, implored the protection, now of
the consuls, now of the patricians: nor could they move the consul from his determination,
until the tribunes promised that they would submit to the authority of the senate. The consuls
conformed to the authority of the senate: the tribunes were reappointed, notwithstanding the
remonstrance of the consuls. The patricians also, that they might not yield to the commons
in any particular, themselves proposed to re-elect Lucius Quinctius consul. No address of the
consul was delivered with greater warmth during the entire year. "Can I be surprised," said
he, "if your authority with the people is held in contempt, O conscript fathers? It is you
yourselves who are weakening it. Forsooth, because the commons have violated a decree of the
senate, by reappointing their magistrates, you yourselves also wish it to be violated, that
you may not be outdone by the populace in rashness; as if greater power in the state consisted
in the possession of greater inconstancy and liberty of action; for it is certainly more inconstant
and greater folly to render null and void one's own decrees and resolutions, than those of
others. Do you, O conscript fathers, imitate the unthinking multitude; and do you, who should
be an example to others, prefer to transgress by the example of others, rather than that others
should act rightly by yours, provided only I do not imitate the tribunes, nor allow myself
to be declared consul, contrary to the decree of the senate. But as for you, Gaius Claudius,
I recommend that you, as well as myself, restrain the Roman people from this licentious spirit,
and that you be persuaded of this, as far as I am concerned, that I shall take it in such a
spirit, that I shall not consider that my attainment of office has been obstructed by you,
but that the glory of having declined the honour has been augmented, and the odium, which would
threaten me if it were continued, lessened." Thereupon they issued this order jointly: That
no one should support the election of Lucius Quinctius as consul: if any one should do so,
that they would not allow the vote. In the consulship of Quintus Fabius and Lucius Cornelius,
disturbances woke out immediately at the beginning of the year. The tribunes were urging on
the commons. The consuls divided their respective spheres of action. Fabius was commissioned
to march the legions to Antium: to Cornelius was assigned the duty of keeping guard at Rome,
lest any portion of the enemy's troops, as was the practice of the Aequans, should advance
to commit depredations. The Hernicans and Latins were ordered to supply soldiers in accordance
with the treaty; and of the army two thirds consisted of allies, the remainder of Roman citizens.
When the allies arrived on the appointed day, the consul pitched his camp outside the porta
Capena.[30] Then, after the army had been reviewed, he set out for Antium, and encamped not
far from the town and fixed quarters of the enemy. He himself occupied the centre with the
Roman legions. He ordered them to watch for the signal for action, so that at the same time
both the allies might begin the action together, and retire together if he should give orders
to sound a retreat. He also posted the proper cavalry of each division behind the front line.
Having thus assailed the camp at three different points, he surrounded it: and, pressing on
from every side, he dislodged the Volscians, who were unable to withstand his attack, from
the rampart. Having then crossed the fortifications, he drove out from the camp the crowd who
were panic-stricken and inclining to make for one direction. Upon this the cavalry, who could
not have easily passed over the rampart, having stood by till then as mere spectators of the
fight, came up with them while flying in disorder over the open plain, and enjoyed a share
of the victory, by cutting down the affrighted troops.

While these events were taking place at Antium, the Aequans, in the meanwhile, sending forward
the flower of their youth surprised the citadel of Tusculum by night: and with the rest of
their army sat down at no great distance from the walls of Tusculutn, so as to divide the forces
of the enemy.[31] News of this being quickly brought to Rome, and from Rome to the camp at
Antium, affected the Romans no less than if it had been announced that the Capitol was taken;
so recent was the service rendered by the Tusculans, and the very similarity of the danger
seemed to demand a return of the aid that had been afforded. Fabius, giving up all thought
of everything else, removed the booty hastily from the camp to Antium: and, having left a small
garrison there, hurried on his army by forced marches to Tusculum. The soldiers were allowed
to take with them nothing but their arms, and whatever baked provision was at hand. They could
never have made their way up to it by force: at length famine caused the enemy to withdraw
from it. When matters subsequently came to extremities, they were all sent under the yoke,
[32] by the Tusculans, unarmed and naked.

This war being concluded, a tribunician war at home alarmed the senate. The tribunes held that
the detention of the army abroad was due to a fraudulent motive: that that deception was intended
to prevent the passing of the law; that they, however, would none the less go through with
the matter they had undertaken. For it was established by many proofs, that the brother of
Volscius, from the time he first fell ill, had not only never been seen in public, but that
he had not even left his bed after he had been attacked by illness, and that he had died of
a wasting disease of several months' standing; and that at the time to which the witness had
referred the commission of the crime, Caeso had not been seen at Rome: while those who had
served in the army with him positively stated that at that time he had regularly attended at
his post along with them without any leave of absence. Many, on their own account, proposed
to Volscius to refer the matter to the decision of an arbitrator. As he did not venture to
go to trial, all these points coinciding rendered the condemnation of Volscius no less certain
than that of Caeso had been on the testimony of Volscius. But they in reality (for it was now
the close of the year), being eager to obtain a fourth tribuneship, had turned away their efforts
from the law to the discussion of the elections; and when the consuls, with the object of lessening
their dignity, opposed the continuation of their tribuneship with no less earnestness than
if the law in question had been proposed, the victory in the contest was on the side of the
tribunes.

In the same year peace was granted to the Aequans on their suing for it. The census, begun
in the preceding year, was completed: this is said to have been the tenth lustrum that was
completed from the date of the foundation of the city. Since Caeso could neither be restored
to the Quinctian family, nor to the state, though a most promising youth, did he, justly, and
as in duty bound, prosecute the false witness who had deprived an innocent person of the power
of pleading his cause. The granting of this respite established tranquility in the city. The
Aequans, however, did not allow them long rest: in violation of the treaty which had been made
with the Romans the year before, they conferred the chief command on Gracchus Cloelius. He
was then by far the chief man among the Aequans. An oak, a mighty tree, whose shade formed
a cool resting-place, overhung the general's tent. Then one of the ambassadors, when departing,
cried out: "Let both this consecrated oak and all the gods hear that the treaty has been broken
by you, and both lend a favourable ear to our complaints now, and assist our arms presently,
when we shall avenge the rights of gods and men that have been violated simultaneously." The
tribunes, after their usual manner, attempted to obstruct the levy, and probably would have
eventually succeeded in doing so, had not a new and additional cause of alarm suddenly arisen.

A large force of Sabines, committing dreadful devastation advanced almost up to the walls of
the city. The fields were laid waste, the city was smitten with terror. Then the commons cheerfully
took up arms; two large armies were raised, the remonstrance of the tribunes being of no avail.
Nautius led one against the Sabines, and, having pitched his camp at Eretum,[36] by trifling
incursions, mostly by night, he so desolated the Sabine territory that, in comparison with
it, the Roman borders seemed almost undamaged by the war. During that night, however, nothing
was done except that guards were posted in the city. With his master of the horse he entered
the assembly, proclaimed a suspension of public business, ordered the shops to be closed throughout
the city, and forbade any one to attend to any private affairs. Then he commanded all who were
of military age to attend under arms, in the Campus Martius, before sunset, with dressed provisions
for five days and twelve stakes apiece: those whose age rendered them unfit for active service
were ordered to prepare victuals for the soldiers near them, while the latter were getting
their arms ready, and procuring stakes. Accordingly, the young men ran in all directions to
procure the stakes; they took them whatever was nearest to each: no one was prevented from
doing so: all attended readily according to the dictator's order. His orders were executed.
The consul declared that there must be no delay; that by that shouts not only their arrival
was intimated, but that hostilities were already begun by their friends; and that it would
be a wonder if the enemy's camp were not attacked on the farther side. He therefore ordered
his men to take up arms and follow him. The battle was begun during the night. They gave notice
by a shout to the dictator's legions that on that side also the decisive moment had arrived.
Here a new engagement pressed on them: the former one had in no wise slackened. They were ordered
by the consul to apply to the dictator: he, incensed against them, added disgrace to defeat.

The enemy's camp, which was full of all their belongings--for he had sent them out of the camp
half naked--having been taken, he distributed all the booty among his own soldiers only: rebuking
the consul's army and the consul himself, he said: "Soldiers, you shall not enjoy any portion
of the spoil taken from that enemy to whom you yourselves nearly became a spoil: and you, Lucius
Minucius, until you begin to assume a spirit worthy of a consul, shall command these legions
only as lieutenant." Quinctius laid down his dictatorship on the sixteenth day, having been
invested with it for six months. The commons succeeded in electing the same tribunes for the
fifth time.

Quintus Minucius and Gaius Horatius Pulvillus were the next consuls. The consuls convened the
senate: they were ordered to raise a hasty levy and to lead it to Algidum. Then, the struggle
about the law being abandoned, a new dispute arose regarding the levy. The consular authority
was on the point of being overpowered by tribunician influence, when an additional cause of
alarm arose: that the Sabine army had made a descent upon Roman territory to commit depredations
and from thence was advancing toward the city. He also razed Corbio to the ground for having
betrayed the garrison.

Marcus Valerius and Spurius Verginius were next elected consuls. Quiet prevailed at home and
abroad. The people were distressed for provisions on account of the excessive rains. A law
was proposed to make Mount Aventine public property. [39] The same tribunes of the people were
re-elected. In the following year, Titus Romilius and Gaius Veturius being consuls, they strongly
recommended the law in all their harangues, declaring that they were ashamed that their number
had been increased to no purpose, it that matter should be neglected during their two years
in the same manner as it had been during the whole preceding five. They said that on the one
hand they might be condemned, and that on the other the commons and tribunes could not carry
the law. Then, having abandoned the law, which, by being repeatedly brought forward, had now
lost consideration, the tribunes, adopted a milder method of proceeding with the patricians.
Let them, said they, at length put an end to disputes. The patricians did not disdain to accept
the proposal. They claimed that no one should propose laws, except he were a patrician. Then
Gaius Menenius and Publius Sestius Capitolinus were elected consuls. They administered justice
to the people individually every tenth day. On that day the twelve fasces attended the administrator
of justice; one officer attended each of his nine colleagues, and in the midst of the singular
unanimity that existed among themselves--a harmony that sometimes proves prejudicial to private
persons--the strictest equity was shown to others. In proof of their moderation it will be
enough to instance a single case as an example. The desire for this gave rise, as the day of
election approached, to a request that decemvirs be appointed again. The commons by this time,
besides that they detested the name of consuls no less than that of kings, did not even require
the tribunician aid, as the decemvirs in turn allowed an appeal. It was evident to them that
there was no sincerity in it; that such affability amid such pride would surely prove not disinterested.
They by common consent conferred on him, as being the youngest, the office of presiding at
the elections.

This was the end of Appius's playing a part at variance with his disposition. Henceforward
he began to live according to his natural character, and to mould to his own temper his new
colleagues before they entered upon office. They daily held meetings in private: then, instructed
in their unruly designs, which they concocted apart from others, now no longer dissembling
their arrogance, difficult of access, captious to all who conversed with them, they protracted
the matter until the ides of May. The ides of May was at that time the usual period for beginning
office. For, besides that there was no protection in the people, as the right of appeal had
been abolished, they had also by mutual consent prohibited interference with each other: whereas
the preceding decemvirs had allowed the decisions pronounced by themselves to be amended by
appeal to any one of their colleagues, and had referred to the people some points which seemed
naturally to come within their own jurisdiction. For a considerable time the terror seemed
equally distributed among all ranks; gradually it began to be directed entirely against the
commons. While they spared the patricians, arbitrary and cruel measures were taken against
the lower classes. As being persons with whom interest usurped the force of justice, they all
took account of persons rather than of causes. They concerted their decisions at home, and
pronounced them in the forum. If any one appealed to a colleague, he departed from the one
to whom he had appealed in such a manner that he regretted that he had not abided by the sentence
of the former. An irresponsible rumour had also gone abroad that they had conspired in their
tyranny not only for the present time, but that a clandestine league had been concluded among
them on oath, that they would not hold the comitia, but by perpetuating the decemvirate would
retain supreme power now that it had once come into their possession. The only thing that troubled
the commons was by what means they should re-establish the tribunician power, that bulwark
of their liberty, now so long discontinued, no mention in the meantime being made of the elections.
Further, the decemvirs, who had at first exhibited themselves to the people surrounded by men
of tribunician rank, because that was deemed popular, now guarded themselves by bands of young
patricians: crowds of these beset the tribunals. They harried the commons, and plundered their
effects: when fortune was on the side of the more powerful individual in regard to whatever
was coveted. And now they spared not even their persons: some were beaten with rods, others
had to submit to the axe; and, that such cruelty might not go unrewarded, a grant of his effects
followed the punishment of the owner. Corrupted by such bribes, the young nobles not only made
no opposition to oppression, but openly avowed a preference for their own selfish gratification
rather than for the liberty of all.

The ides of May came round. Without any magistrates being elected in place of those retiring,
private persons [45]came forward as decemvirs, without any abatement either in their determination
to enforce their authority, or any alteration in the insignia displayed as outward signs of
office. That indeed seemed undoubted regal tyranny. Liberty was now deplored as lost forever:
no champion of it stood forth, or seemed likely to do so. And not only were the Romans themselves
sunk in despondency, but they began to be looked down upon by the neighbouring states, who
felt indignant that sovereign power should be in the hands of a state where liberty did not
exist. The decemvirs, left in a dilemma between the hatred of the patricians and people, took
counsel what was to be done. Fortune, moreover, brought an additional cause of alarm. The AEquans
on the opposite side pitched their camp at Algidum, and by raids from there ravaged Tusculan
territory. News of this was brought by ambassadors from Tusculum imploring assistance. The
panic thereby occasioned urged the decemvirs to consult the senate, now that two wars at once
threatened the city. When the voice of the crier was heard in the forum summoning the senators
into the senate-house to the presence of the decemvirs, this proceeding, as altogether new,
because they had long since given up the custom of consulting the senate, attracted the attention
of the people, who, full of surprise, wanted to know what had happened, and why, after so long
an interval they were reviving a custom that had fallen into abeyance: stating that they ought
to thank the enemy and the war, that any of the customs of a free state were complied with.
Thus the commons grumbled. When those who had been summoned did not assemble, state messengers
were despatched to their houses, both to levy the penalties,[46] and to make inquiries whether
they purposely refused to attend.

However, they showed more obedience in coming into the senate than obsequiousness in the opinions
expressed by them, as we have learned. To the popular party? What had they ever done with the
concurrence of the people? To the party of the nobles? Who for now nearly an entire year had
not held a meeting of the senate, and then held one in such a manner that they prevented the
expression of sentiments regarding the commonwealth? Let them not place too much hope in the
fears of others; the grievances which they were now suffering appeared to men more oppressive
than any they might apprehend. For the commonwealth would claim its rights in spite of them,
if it could not obtain them with their consent: that however, from a great contest great animosities
were generally aroused: it was the result of the latter that he dreaded. For the rest, it was
unfair that any one should prejudge a matter of such importance, while their minds were occupied
with a more momentous concern.

The junior patricians almost succeeded in getting this resolution passed on a division. The
men of consular rank also and senior members, from the hatred of tribunician power still rankling
in their bosoms, the longing for which they considered was much more keenly felt by the commons
than for the consular power, almost preferred that the decemvirs themselves should voluntarily
resign their office at some future period, than that the people should once more become prominent
through hatred against these. The war at home appeared more serious than abroad. For this man,
formerly distinguished at home and abroad, had been so altered by his office of decemvir and
the influence of his colleagues that he chose rather to be like Appius than like himself. To
him the war among the Sabines was intrusted, Manius Rabuleius and Quintus Paetilius being sent
with him as colleagues. Marcus Cornelius was sent to Algidum with Lucius Minucius, Titus Antonius,
Caeso Duillius, and Marcus Sergius: they appointed Spurius Oppius to assist Appius Claudius
in protecting the city, while all the decemvirs were to enjoy equal authority.

In addition to the reverses sustained at the hands of the enemy, the decemvirs were guilty
of two monstrous deeds, one abroad, and the other in the city. His wife and children were brought
up in the same manner. Appius, burning with desire, attempted to seduce by bribes and promises
this young woman, now grown up, and of distinguished beauty; and when he perceived that all
the avenues of his lust were barred by modesty, he turned his thoughts to cruel and tyrannical
violence. The girl being struck dumb with terror, a crowd collected at the cries of her nurse,
who besought the protection of the citizens. The popular names of her father, Verginius, and
of her betrothed, Icilius, were in every one's mouth. Esteem for them gained the good-will
of their acquaintances, the heinousness of the proceeding, that of the crowd. She was now safe
from violence, forasmuch as the claimant said that there was no occasion for rousing the mob;
that he was proceeding by law, not by force. He summoned the girl into court. Her supporters
advising her to follow him, they reached the tribunal of Appius.

Appius prefaced his decision by observing that the very same law, which the friends of Verginius
put forward as the plea of their demand, showed how strongly he himself was in favour of liberty:
that liberty, however, would find secure protection in the law on this condition only, that
it varied neither with respect to cases or persons. Such a monstrous injustice would have fired
even a cool temper. "By the sword, Appius," said he, "must I be removed hence, that you may
secure silence about that which you wish to be concealed.

The multitude was now roused, and a contest seemed threatening. They proceeded according to
directions, and galloping at full speed, carried the news to her father. And he, with his eyes
full of tears, said: "This is a great favour; to-morrow I will avail myself of your assistance:
at present I have sufficient sureties."

But in the city, at daybreak, when the citizens were standing in the forum on the tiptoe of
expectation, Verginius, clad in mourning, conducted his daughter, also shabbily attired, attended
by some matrons, into the forum, with a considerable body of supporters. He there began to
go around and solicit people: and not only entreated their aid given out of kindness, but demanded
it as a right: saying that he stood daily in the field of battle in defence of their wives
and children, nor was there any other man, whose brave and intrepid deeds in war could be recorded
in greater numbers. What availed it, if, while the city was secure from dangers, their children
had to endure these calamities, which were the worst that could be dreaded if it were taken?
Uttering these words just like one delivering a public harangue, he solicited the people individually.
Similar arguments were put forward by Icilius: the attendant throng of women produced more
effect by their silent tears than any words. With a mind stubbornly proof against all this--such
an attack of frenzy, rather than of love, had perverted his mind--Appius ascended the tribunal,
and when the claimant went on to complain briefly, that justice had not been administered to
him on the preceding day through party influence, before either he could go through with his
claim, or an opportunity of reply was afforded to Verginius, Appius interrupted him. The preamble
with which he prefaced his decision, ancient authors may have handed down perhaps with some
degree of truth; but since I nowhere find any that is probable in the case of so scandalous
a decision, I think it best to state the bare fact, which is generally admitted, that he passed
a sentence consigning her to slavery. At first a feeling of bewilderment astounded all, caused
by amazement at so heinous a proceeding: then for some time silence prevailed. When the claimant
of the girl was repulsed by the crowd of women and supporters who were standing around her,
silence was proclaimed by the crier. "It will, therefore," said he, "be better to remain quiet:
go, lictor, disperse the crowd, and clear the way for the master to lay hold of his slave."
After he had thundered out these words, full of wrath, the multitude of their own accord dispersed,
and the girl stood deserted, a sacrifice to injustice. Then Verginius, when he saw no aid anywhere,
said: "I beg you, Appius, first pardon a father's grief, if I have attacked you too harshly:
in the next place, suffer me to ask the nurse here in presence of the maiden, what all this
means, that, if I have been falsely called her father, I may depart hence with mind more tranquil."
Permission having been granted, he drew the girl and the nurse aside to the booths near the
chapel of Cloacina,[52] which now go by the name of the New Booths:[53] and there, snatching
a knife from a butcher, "In this, the only one way I can, my daughter," said he, "do I secure
to you your liberty." The men, and more especially Icilius, spoke of nothing but the tribunician
power, and the right of appeal to the people which had been taken from them, and gave vent
to their indignation in regard to the condition of public affairs.

The multitude was excited partly by the heinousness of the misdeed, partly by the hope of recovering
their liberty on a favourable opportunity. Appius first ordered Icilius to be summoned before
him, then, when he refused to come, to be seized: finally, when the officers were not allowed
an opportunity of approaching him, he himself, proceeding through the crowd with a body of
young patricians, ordered him to be led away to prison. Hence arose a violent quarrel. The
decemvir's lictor attacked Valerius and Horatius: the fasces were broken by the people. Appius
ascended the tribunal; Horatius and Valerius followed him. They were attentively listened to
by the assembly: the voice of the decemvir was drowned with clamour. Distracted then by various
counsels and by listening to several advisers from every side, he had become hopelessly confused:
eventually he ordered the senate to be convened.

Accordingly, some of the junior patricians, being sent to the camp which was at that time on
Mount Vecilius, announced to the decemvirs that they should do their utmost to keep the soldiers
from mutinying. That by the calamity of another a warning was given to them to guard against
a similar injury. While he uttered these words in a loud voice, the multitude responded with
a shout that they would not be backward, either to avenge his wrongs or to defend their own
liberty. And the civilians mixing with the crowd of soldiers, by uttering the same complaints,
and by showing how much more shocking these things must have appeared when seen than when merely
heard of, and also by telling them that the disturbance at Rome was now almost over--and others
having subsequently arrived who asserted that Appius, having with difficulty escaped with life,
had gone into exile--all these individuals so far influenced them that there was a general
cry to arms, and having pulled up the standards, they set out for Rome. While they proceeded
with mildness no answer was returned to them: if any of them attempted to exert authority,
the soldiers replied that they were men and were armed. They proceeded in a body to the city
and occupied the Aventine, encouraging the commons, as each person met them, recover their
liberty, and elect tribunes of the people; no other expression of violence was heard. Spurius
Oppius held a meeting of the senate; it was resolved that no harsh measures should be adopted,
inasmuch as occasion for sedition had been given by themselves.[57] Three men of consular rank,
Spurius Tarpeius, Gaius Julius, Publius Sulpicius, were sent as ambassadors, to inquire, in
the name of the senate, by whose order they had deserted the camp? The multitude only cried
out with one accord, that they should send Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius to them, saying
that they would give their answer to them. The fact of my daughter being unavenged, does not
allow any office to be agreeable to me, nor, in the present disturbed condition of the state,
is it advantageous that those should be at your head who are most exposed to party animosity.
If I am of any use, the benefit to be gained from my services will be just as great while I
am a private individual." There, joining the other army, they commissioned the twenty tribunes
of the soldiers to select two out of their number to preside over state affairs. The decemvirs,
complaining that they were now being degraded, declared that they would not resign their office
until those laws, for the sake of which they had been appointed, were passed. When the unusual
solitude had created everywhere at Rome a feeling of desolation; when there was no one in the
forum but a few old men: when, after the patricians had been summoned into the senate, the
forum appeared deserted, by this time more besides Horatius and Valerius began to exclaim,
"What will you now wait for, conscript fathers? If the decemvirs do not put an end to their
obstinacy, will you suffer all things to go to wreck and ruin? What power is that of yours,
decemvirs, which you embrace and hold so firmly? Do you mean to administer justice to walls
and houses? Are you not ashamed that an almost greater number of your lictors is to be seen
in the forum than of the other citizens? What are you going to do, in case the enemy should
approach the city? What, if the commons should come presently in arms, in case we show ourselves
little affected by their secession? Do you mean to end your power by the fall of the city?
When these arguments were thrown out from every quarter, the decemvirs, overpowered by the
united opinions of all, declared that, since such seemed to be the feeling, they would submit
to the authority of the patricians. All they asked for themselves was that they might be protected
from popular odium; they warned the senate, that they should not, by shedding their blood,
habituate the people to inflict punishment on the patricians. When the terms came to be considered,
on the ambassadors inquiring what the demands of the people were, he also, having already concerted
the plan before the arrival of the ambassadors, made such demands, that it became evident that
more hope was placed in the justice of their case than in arms. The ambassadors replied: "Your
demands which have been the result of deliberation are so reasonable, that they should be voluntarily
offered to you: for you demand therein safeguards for your liberty, not a means of arbitrary
power to assail others. Your resentment we must rather pardon than indulge, seeing that from
your hatred of cruelty you rush into cruelty, and almost before you are free yourselves, already
wish to lord it over your opponents. Shall our state never enjoy rest from punishments, inflicted
either by the patricians on the Roman commons, or by the commons on the patricians? You need
a shield rather than a sword. He is sufficiently and abundantly humbled who lives in the state
on an equal footing with his fellow-citizens, neither inflicting nor suffering injury.

All assenting that they should act just as they thought proper, the ambassadors assured them
that they would speedily return, having brought everything to a satisfactory termination. I
do not even hesitate to resign my decemvirate." These decrees of the senate being completed,
and the senate dismissed, the decemvirs came forth into the assembly, and resigned their office,
to the great joy of all. News of this was carried to the commons. All those who remained in
the city escorted the ambassadors. This crowd was met by another joyous body from the camp;
they congratulated each other on the restoration of liberty and concord to the state. Go to
the Aventine, whence you set out. They then pulled up their standards, and having set out for
Rome, vied in exultation with all they met. Silently, under arms, they marched through the
city and reached the Aventine. Marcus Titinius, Marcus Pomponius, Gaius Apronius, Appius Villius,
and Gaius Oppius, were elected more from hope entertained of them than from any actual services.
When he entered on his tribuneship, Lucius Icilius immediately brought before the people, and
the people enacted, that the secession from the decemvirs which had taken place should not
prove detrimental to any individual. Immediately after Duillius carried a proposition for electing
consuls, with right of appeal[59]. It was also arranged by the same consuls, that decrees of
the senate, which before that used to be suppressed and altered at the pleasure of the consuls,
should be deposited in the Temple of Ceres, under the care of the aediles of the commons. All
these enactments, though against the feelings of the patricians, passed off without opposition
from them, because as yet no severity was aimed at any particular individual. When Verginius
had appointed a day for Appius to take his trial, and Appius had come down to the forum, accompanied
by a band of young patricians, the recollection of his most profligate exercise of power was
instantly revived in the minds of all, as soon as they beheld the man himself and his satellites.
The hearing of this one word that safeguard of liberty, and the fact that it was uttered from
that mouth, by which a free citizen was so recently consigned to slavery, caused silence.

Verginius, on the other hand, affirmed that Appius Claudius was the only person who had no
part or share in the laws, or in any covenant civil or human. After they had proclaimed a levy
for these wars, through the good offices of the commons, not only the younger men, but a large
number, consisting of volunteers from among those who had served their time,[64] attended to
give in their names: and hence the army was stronger not only in the number but also in the
quality of its soldiers, owing to the admixture of veterans. There are some who state that
the aediles discharged that office by order of the tribunes. Though advanced in years, he now
returned to the City, to deprecate the dangers threatening the man whose vicious practices
had driven him into retirement. Going down to the Forum in mourning garb, accompanied by the
members of his house and by his clients, he appealed to the citizens individually, and implored
them not to stain the house of the Claudii with such an indelible disgrace as to deem them
worthy of bonds and imprisonment. To think that a man whose image would be held in highest
honour by posterity, the framer of their laws and the founder of Roman jurisprudence, should
be lying manacled amongst nocturnal thieves and robbers! Let them turn their thoughts for a
moment from feelings of exasperation to calm examination and reflection, and forgive one man
at the intercession of so many of the Claudii, rather than through their hatred of one man
despise the prayers of many. So far he himself would go for the honour of his family and his
name, but he was not reconciled to the man whose distressed condition he was anxious to relieve.
By courage their liberties had been recovered, by clemency the harmony of the orders in the
State could be strengthened. Some were moved, but it was more by the affection he showed for
his nephew than by any regard for the man for whom he was pleading. But Verginius begged them
with tears to keep their compassion for him and his daughter, and not to listen to the prayers
of the Claudii, who had assumed sovereign power over the plebs, but to the three tribunes,
kinsmen of Verginia, who, after being elected to protect the plebeians, were now seeking their
protection. This appeal was felt to have more justice in it. All hope being now cut off, Appius
put an end to his life before the day of trial came.

Soon after Sp. Oppius was arraigned by P. Numitorius. He was only less detested than Appius,
because he had been in the City when his colleague pronounced the iniquitous judgment. More
indignation, however, was aroused by an atrocity which Oppius had committed than by his not
having prevented one. A witness was produced, who after reckoning up twenty-seven years of
service, and eight occasions on which he had been decorated for conspicuous bravery, appeared
before the people wearing all his decorations. Tearing open his dress he exhibited his back
lacerated with stripes. He asked for nothing but a proof on Oppius' part of any single charge
against him; if such proof were forthcoming, Oppius, though now only a private citizen, might
repeat all his cruelty towards him. Oppius was taken to prison and there, before the day of
trial, he put an end to his life. His property and that of Claudius were confiscated by the
tribunes. Their colleagues changed their domicile by going into exile; their property also
was confiscated. M. Claudius, who had been the claimant of Verginia, was tried and condemned;
Verginius himself, however, refused to press for the extreme penalty, so he was allowed to
go into exile to Tibur. Verginia was more fortunate after her death than in her lifetime; her
shade, after wandering through so many houses in quest of expiatory penalties, at length found
rest, not one guilty person being now left.

Great alarm seized the patricians; the looks of the tribunes were now as menacing as those
of the decemvirs had been. M. Duillius the tribune imposed a salutary check upon their excessive
exercise of authority. "We have gone," he said, "far enough in the assertion of our liberty
and the punishment of our opponents, so for this year I will allow no man to be brought to
trial or cast into prison. I disapprove of old crimes, long forgotten, being raked up, now
that the recent ones have been atoned for by the punishment of the decemvirs. The unceasing
care which both the consuls are taking to protect your liberties is a guarantee that nothing
will be done which will call for the power of the tribunes." This spirit of moderation shown
by the tribune relieved the fears of the patricians, but it also intensified their resentment
against the consuls, for they seemed to be so wholly devoted to the plebs, that the safety
and liberty of the patricians were a matter of more immediate concern to the plebeian than
they were to the patrician magistrates. It seemed as though their adversaries would grow weary
of inflicting punishment on them sooner than the consuls would curb their insolence. It was
pretty generally asserted that they had shown weakness, since their laws had been sanctioned
by the senate, and no doubt was entertained that they had yielded to the pressure of circumstances.

After matters had been settled in the City and the position of the plebs firmly assured, the
consuls left for their respective provinces.

Those in the nearest places returned: those who were farther off were not found. The enemy
at first gave way; then, having rallied their spirits, when their generals on every side reproachfully
asked them, whether they intended to yield to vanquished foes, the battle was restored. They
spurred on their horses, and charged at full speed against the enemy, who were already thrown
into confusion by the attack of the infantry: and having broken through the ranks, some dashing
on to the rear of their line, others wheeling about in the open space from the flanks, turned
most of them away from the camp as they were now flying in all directions, and by riding beyond
them headed them off. The line of infantry, the consul himself, and the whole onset of the
battle was borne toward the camp, and having taken it with considerable slaughter, he got possession
of still more considerable booty. The fame of this battle, carried not only to the city, but
to the other army also in Sabine territory, was welcomed in the city with public rejoicing;
in the camp, it inspirited the soldiers to emulate such glory. Why did they not meet them in
the field, and intrust to fortune the decision of the matter once and for all?

Besides that they had already of themselves recovered sufficient courage, the Romans were fired
with exasperation at the thought that the other army would soon return victorious to the city;
that the enemy were now wantonly affronting them with insolence: when, moreover, would they
be a match for the enemy, if they were not so then? For my part, I shall display the same judgment
and determination as you yourselves, O soldiers, display. Whenthe shout was raised with great
alacrity, he assured them that he would comply with their wishes--and so might Heaven prosper
it--and lead them next day into the field. The shout being raised anew, all together making
a united effort, drove the enemy back; nor could the Roman attack be any longer resisted.

The Sabines, driven in every direction through the country, left their camp behind them for
the enemy to plunder. The consuls by agreement came to the city within the same two days, and
summoned the senate to the Campius Martius.[67] When they were there relating the services
performed by themselves, the chiefs of the patricians complained that the senate was designedly
convened among the soldiers for the purpose of intimidation. They pleaded, in excuse, the combination
of the patricians by which the privileges of the commons were attempted to be undermined by
the affronts of the consuls. What would be the consequence, when the laws were as yet not firmly
established, if they attacked the new tribunes through consuls of their own party? Men like
Horatius and Valerius would not always be consuls, who would regard their own interests as
secondary after the liberty of the people. He said that the law had been satisfied, which,
without any number being anywhere specified, only enacted that tribunes who had been elected
should be left to choose their colleagues and confirmed those chosen by them. When Duillius
persevered to the last, stating that the republic could not have fifteen tribunes of the people,
having baffled the ambition of his colleagues, he resigned office, equally approved of by patricians
and commons.

The new tribunes of the people, in electing their colleagues endeavoured to gratify the wishes
of the patricians; they even elected two who were patricians,[68] and men of consular rank
Spurius Tarpeius and Aulus Aternius. Their anxiety for peace abroad was also the cause of harmony
at home. So difficult a thing is moderation in maintaining liberty, while every one, by pretending
to desire equality, exalts himself in such a manner as to put down another, and men, by their
very precautions against fear, cause themselves to become objects of dread: and we saddle on
others injustice repudiated on our own account, as if it were absolutely necessary either to
commit injustice or to submit to it. When they marched back thence to Corbio unmolested and
driving their booty before them, Quinctius the consul summoned the people to an assembly. Whom,
I pray, did these most dastardly enemies despise? Us, consuls, or you, Quirites? If the fault
lies in us, take away the command from those who are unworthy of it; and, if that is not enough,
further inflict punishment on us. It is the discord among the several orders that is the curse
of this city, the contests between the patricians and commons. While we have neither bounds
in the pursuit of power, nor you in that of liberty, while you are wearied of patrician, we
of plebeian magistrates, they have taken courage. In the name of Heaven, what would you have?
You desired tribunes of the commons; we granted them for the sake of concord. You longed for
decemvirs; we suffered them to be created. You wished asecond time to create tribunes of the
commons; you created them. When the Esquiline was almost taken by the enemy, no one defended
it, and when the Volscian foe was scaling the rampart, no one drove him off: it is against
us you behave like men, against us you are armed. What in the name of Heaven--what is the state
of your own private affairs? Even now to each of you his own private losses from the country
will be announced. What, pray, is there at home, whence you can recruit them? Will the tribunes
restore and re-establish what you have lost? But, by Hercules! Continue fast bound to your
assemblies, live in the forum; the necessity of taking the field, which you strive to escape,
still follows you. That there are other topics more pleasing than these, I well know; but even
though my own mind did not prompt me to it, necessity obliges me to speak the truth rather
than what is pleasing. I would indeed like to meet with your approval, Quirites; but I am much
more anxious that you should be preserved, whatever sentiments you shall entertain toward me.
When excited, you are to them sources either of position or of profit: and, because, when the
orders are in accord, they see that they themselves are of no importance in anything, they
prefer to be leaders of a bad cause, of tumults and sedition, rather than of no cause at all.

Scarcely ever was the speech of a popular tribune more acceptable to the commons than this
of a most austere consul on that occasion. The cohorts [70] chose each their centurions: two
senators were placed at the head of each cohort. On the field of battle Quinctius commanded
the right, Agrippa the left wing; the command of the centre was intrusted to Spurius Postumius
Albus, as lieutenant-general. Publius Sulpicius, the other lieutenant-general, was placed at
the head of the cavalry. The infantry on the right wing fought with distinguished valour, while
the Volscians offered a stout resistance. Thus ended the cavalry engagement. Then, having attacked
the enemy's infantry, they sent an account to the consuls of what had been done, where the
enemy's line was already giving way. The news both gave fresh courage to the Romans who were
now gaining the day, and dismayed the Æquans who were beginning to give way. There, as there
were but few to defend it, and these were routed in a moment they broke into the fortifications
without a struggle, and marched back the army, in possession of abundant spoil, having recovered
also their own effects, which had been lost by the devastation of the lands.

A disgraceful decision of the people regarding the boundaries of their allies marred the honourable
victory obtained over their enemies. When they arrived to support their claims, an assembly
of the people being granted them by the magistrates, the matter was debated with great warmth.
The tribunes, as they are nearly always directed by the multitude rather than direct it, granted
Scaptius leave to say what he pleased in deference to the people, who were anxious to hear
him. That he for his part had but a short time to live; he could not, however, bring himself,
old as he now was, to desist claiming by his voice, the only means he now had, a district which,
as a soldier, he had contributed to acquire, as far as a man could. That he strenuously advised
the people not to ruin their own interest by an idle feeling of delicacy. Was this the answer
the ambassadors were to carry home; was this to go out to the world; were their allies to hear
this; were their enemies to hear it--with what sorrow the one--with what joy the other? The
patricians had gained exclusive occupation of this, for which they paid a nominal rent in the
shape of produce and tithes: the state, however, still retained the right of disposal of it.
By degrees the ager publicus fell into the hands of a few rich individuals, who were continually
buying up smaller estates, which were cultivated by slaves, thus reducing the number of free
agricultural labourers.]

[Footnote 2: Directly, rather than by lot as was usual.]

[Footnote 4: In later times the censor performed this office.--D.O.]

[Footnote 5: This decree was practically a bestowal of absolute power.--D.O.]

[Footnote: In later times the proconsul was the consul of the previous year, appointed to act
as such over one of the provinces.--D.O.]

[Footnote 7: This gate was on the west side, in the rear, farthest from the enemy: it was so
called from the decumanus, a line drawn from east to west, which divided the camp into two
halves: see note in revised edition of Prendeville's Livy.]

[Footnote 8: August 1st]

[Footnote 9: The consular year, not the civil one, which began in January: the time at which
the consuls entered upon office varied very much until B.C. 153, when it was finally settled
that the date of their doing so should be January 1st.]

[Footnote 10: Called "Via Praenestina" beyond Gabii.]

[Footnote 11: That is, broke up camp.--D.O.]

[Footnote 12: The people of Rome had been divided in early times into thirty curies: each of
these had an officiating priest, called curio, and the whole body was under the presidency
of the curio maximus.]

[Footnote 13: The ten leading senators held the office in rotation for five days each, until
the consular comitia were held.--D.O.]

[Footnote 14: August 11th]

[Footnote 15: A lesser form of triumph.]

[Footnote 16: The Sibylline books, supposed to have been sold to Tarquinius Superbus by the
Sibyl of Cumæ: they were written in Greek hexameter verses. In times of emergency and distress
they were consulted and interpreted by special priests (the duumviri here mentioned).]

[Footnote 17: It will be frequently observed that the patricians utilized their monopoly of
religious offices to effect their own ends.--D.O.]

[Footnote 18: Curule chairs of office.]

[Footnote 19: That is, recruits.--D.O.]

[Footnote 20: The worst quarter of the city--its White chapel as it were. It lay, roughly speaking,
from the Forum eastward along the valley between Esquiline and Viminial Hills.--D.O.]

[Footnote 21: That is, to insure punishment and practically abnegate the right an accused person
had of escaping sentence by voluntary exile.--D.O.]

[Footnote 22: Perhaps the first bail-bond historically noted.--D.O.]

[Footnote 23: That is, refused to accept the plea.]

[Footnote 24: That is, defended them in court.]

[Footnote 25: The Temple of Jupiter in the Capitol was divided into three parts: the middle
was sacred to Jupiter, the right to Minerva, the left to Juno. By "other gods" are meant Terminus,
Fides, Juventas.]

[Footnote 26: Publicola, the father of Brutus.]

[Footnote 27: That is, personal violence from the young patricians.--D.O.]

[Footnote 28: Their control over the auspices was a favourite weapon of the patricians, and
one which could naturally be better used at a distance from Rome. The frequency of its use
would seem to argue adaptability in the devotional feelings of the nobles at least, which might
modify our reliance upon the statement made above as to the respect for the gods then prevalent
in Rome.--D.O.]

[Footnote 29: This was the limit of the tribunes' authority.--D.O.]

[Footnote 30: This gate, from which at a later date the Via Appia and the Via Latina started,
stood near what is now the junction of the Via S. Gregorio with the Vi di Porta S. Sebastiano.--D.O.]

[Footnote 31: By drawing part of the Roman army to the defence of the allied city.--D.O.]

[Footnote 32: Two spears were set upright and a third lashed across. To pass through and under
this "yoke" was, among the Italian states, the greatest indignity that could be visited upon
a captured army. It symbolized servititude in arms.--D. O.]

[Footnote 33: This would seem to augur some treachery, unless we are to believe that only the
young men taken in the citadel were sent under the yoke, the slaughter took place among the
flying besiegers.--D.O.]

[Footnote 34: "Quæstors," these officers are first mentioned in Book II, ch. xii. Freese regards
the expression as inconsistent with his alleged poverty.--D.O.]

[Footnote 38: A curious feature of a triumph were the disrespectful and often scurrilous verses
chanted by the soldiers at the expense of their general--D.O.]

[Footnote 39: The meaning of this passage is obscure. Many explanations have been attempted,
none of which, to my mind, is quite satisfactory.--D.O.]

[Footnote 40: Priest of Quirinus.--D. O.]

[Footnote 41: The law forbade burial within the limits of the city except in certain cases.--D.O.]

[Footnote 42: That is, relinquished his right of acting as judge in favour of the people and
of popular trial.--D.O.]

[Footnote 43: A new law was hung up in the Forum for public perusal.--D.O.]

[Footnote 44: As in the case of a dictator. At first half, and finally all, of the consular
lictors carried only the fasces.--D.O.]

[Footnote 45: That is, the incumbents of the past year, now of right private persons, their
term of office having expired.--D. O.]

[Footnote 46: The fine for non-attendance.--D.O.]

[Footnote 47: As being out of order, the senate having been convened to consider the war.]

[Footnote 48: Rex Sacrificulus (see note, page 73).--D.O.]

[Footnote 49: As having been improperly convened.--D.O.]

[Footnote 50: That is, of Valerius, but rather of Appius himself in restraining him from precipitating
matters.--D.O.]

[Footnote 51: Appius's argument is that, if Verginia was living in a state of slavery under
Claudius, as any one might institute an action to establish her liberty, she would be entitled
to her liberty until the matter was settled: but as she was now living under her father's protection,
and was his property by the right of the patria potestas, and he was absent, and as other person
had a right to keep or defend her, she ought to be given up to the man who claimed to be her
master, pending her father's return.]

[Footnote 52: Venus Cloacina (she who cleanses).--D.O.]

[Footnote 53: On two sides of the forum were colonnades, between the pillars of which were
tradesmen's booths known as "the Old Booths" and "the New Booths."]

[Footnote 54: That is, to the infernal gods.]

[Footnote 55: See Macaulay's "Lays of Ancient Rome: Verginia."]

[Footnote 56: The civilian togas.--D. O.]

[Footnote 57: Appius Claudius, a member of their order.--D. O.]

[Footnote 58: From the Colline gate.--D.O.]

[Footnote 59: From whose decision an appeal would lie.]

[Footnote 60: The church of S. Caterina de' Fernari now stands within its lines.--D.O.]

[Footnote 61: Evidently this could not apply to a dictator.--D. O.]

[Footnote 62: The name consul, although used by Livy (Bk. I, ch. Ix), was not really employed
until after the period of the decemvirs. The title in early use was prætor: it is not definitely
known when the name judex was attached to the office.]

[Footnote 63: I question the rendering of this sentence. To read plebis for plebi would very
much improve the sense.--D.O.]

[Footnote 64: Twenty years.--D.O.]

[Footnote 65: The misfortunes of the previous campaign were supposed to exert an influence
on the present one.--D.O.]

[Footnote 66: The cavalry at this period wore no defensive armour, and carried only an ox-hide
buckler and a light lance.--D.O.]

[Footnote 67: A victorious general who had entered the city could not afterward triumph.--D.O.]

[Footnote 68: It was first necessary for these to be adopted into plebeian families, as none
but plebeians were eligible.--D.O.]

[Footnote 69: It stood about where the Arch of Gallienus now stands.--D.O.]

[Footnote 70: Each legion was divided into ten cohorts.--D.O.]

[Footnote 71: A not unusual method of forcing the charge, as not only military honour but religious
sentiment forbade the loss of the standards.--D. O.]

[Footnote 72: About twenty miles from Rome in the Alban Mountains. The village of Ariccia occupies
the site of the ancient citadel.--D. O.]

[Footnote 73: Quadruplatores were public informers, so called because they received a fourth
part of the fine imposed: also used in a general sense of those who tried to promote their
interests by underhand means.]

[Footnote 74: This is one of the best of Livy's books. The story of Verginia and of the deposition
and punishment of the decemvirs is unexcelled in historical narrative.--D.O.]

