I told him, That with regard to the mischief he threatened, neither the act nor the menace
could serve any end but theirs who persecuted you; as it would give them a pretence for carrying
into effect their compulsory projects; and that with the approbation of all the world; since
he must not think the public would give its voice in favour of a violent young man, of no extraordinary
character as to morals, who should seek to rob a family of eminence of a child so valuable;
and who threatened, if he could not obtain her in preference to a man chosen by themselves,
that he would avenge himself upon them all by acts of violence.

I added, That he was very much mistaken, if he thought to intimidate you by such menaces: for
that, though your disposition was all sweetness, yet I knew not a steadier temper in the world
than yours; nor one more inflexible, (as your friends had found, and would still further find,
if they continued to give occasion for its exertion,) whenever you thought yourself in the
right; and that you were ungenerously dealt with in matters of too much moment to be indifferent
about. Miss Clarissa Harlowe, Mr. Lovelace, let me tell you, said I, timid as her foresight
and prudence may make her in some cases, where she apprehends dangers to those she loves, is
above fear, in points where her honour, and the true dignity of her sex, are concerned.--In
short, Sir, you must not think to frighten Miss Clarissa Harlowe into such a mean or unworthy
conduct as only a weak or unsteady mind can be guilty of.

He was so very far from intending to intimidate you, he said, that he besought me not to mention
one word to you of what had passed between us: that what he had hinted at, which carried the
air of menace, was owing to the fervour of his spirits, raised by his apprehensions of losing
all hope of you for ever; and on a supposition, that you were to be actually forced into the
arms of a man you hated: that were this to be the case, he must own, that he should pay very
little regard to the world, or its censures: especially as the menaces of some of your family
now, and their triumph over him afterwards, would both provoke and warrant all the vengeance
he could take.

He added, that all the countries in the world were alike to him, but on your account: so that,
whatever he should think fit to do, were you lost to him, he should have noting to apprehend
from the laws of this.

I did not like the determined air he spoke this with: he is certainly capable of great rashness.

He palliated a little this fierceness (which by the way I warmly censured) by saying, That
while you remain single, he will bear all the indignities that shall be cast upon him by your
family. But would you throw yourself, if you were still farther driven, into any other protection,
if not Lord M.'s, or that of the ladies of his family, into my mother's,* suppose; or would
you go to London to private lodgings, where he would never visit you, unless he had your leave
(and from whence you might make your own terms with your relations); he would be entirely satisfied;
and would, as he had said before, wait the effect of your cousin's arrival, and your free determination
as to his own fate. Adding, that he knew the family so well, and how much fixed they were upon
their measures, as well as the absolute dependence they had upon your temper and principles,
that he could not but apprehend the worst, while you remained in their power, and under the
influence of their persuasions and menaces.

     * Perhaps it will be unnecessary to remind the reader, that
     although Mr. Lovelace proposes (as above) to Miss Howe, that
     her fair friend should have recourse to the protection of
     Mrs. Howe, if farther driven; yet he had artfully taken
     care, by means of his agent in the Harlowe family, not only
     to inflame the family against her, but to deprive her of
     Mrs. Howe's, and of every other protection, being from the
     first resolved to reduce her to an absolute dependence upon
     himself. See Vol. I. Letter XXXI.

We had a great deal of other discourse: but as the reciting of the rest would be but a repetition
of many of the things that passed between you and him in the interview between you in the wood-house,
I refer myself to your memory on that occasion.*

     * See Vol. I. Letter XXXVI.

And now, my dear, upon the whole, I think it behoves you to make yourself independent: all
then will fall right. This man is a violent man. I should wish, methinks, that you should not
have either him or Solmes. You will find, if you get out of your brother's and sister's way,
what you can or cannot do, with regard to either.

If your relations persist in their foolish scheme, I think I will take his hint, and, at a
proper opportunity, sound my mother. Mean time, let me have your clear opinion of the resumption,
which I join with Lovelace in advising. You can but see how your demand will work. To demand,
is not to litigate. But be your resolution what it will, do not by any means repeat to them,
that you will not assert your right. If they go on to give you provocation, you may have sufficient
reason to change your mind: and let them expect that you will change it. They have not the
generosity to treat you the better for disclaiming the power they know you have. That, I think,
need not now be told you. I am, my dearest friend, and ever will be,

Your most affectionate and faithful ANNA HOWE.

LETTER VI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE WEDN. NIGHT, MARCH 22.

On the report made by my aunt and sister of my obstinacy, my assembled relations have taken
an unanimous resolution (as Betty tells me it is) against me. This resolution you will find
signified to me in the inclosed letter from my brother, just now brought me. Be pleased to
return it, when perused. I may have occasion for it, in the altercations between my relations
and me.

*****

MISS CLARY,

I am commanded to let you know, that my father and uncles having heard your aunt Hervey's account
of all that has passed between her and you: having heard from your sister what sort of treatment
she has had from you: having recollected all that has passed between your mother and you: having
weighed all your pleas and proposals: having taken into consideration their engagements with
Mr. Solmes; that gentleman's patience, and great affection for you; and the little opportunity
you have given yourself to be acquainted either with his merit, or his proposals: having considered
two points more; to wit, the wounded authority of a father; and Mr. Solmes's continued entreaties
(little as you have deserved regard from him) that you may be freed from a confinement to which
he is desirous to attribute your perverseness to him [averseness I should have said, but let
it go], he being unable to account otherwise for so strong a one, supposing you told truth
to your mother, when you asserted that your heart was free; and which Mr. Solmes is willing
to believe, though nobody else does--For all these reasons, it is resolved, that you shall
go to your uncle Antony's: and you must accordingly prepare yourself to do so. You will have
but short notice of the day, for obvious reasons.

I will honestly tell you the motive for your going: it is a double one; first, That they may
be sure, that you shall not correspond with any body they do not like (for they find from Mrs.
Howe, that, by some means or other, you do correspond with her daughter; and, through her,
perhaps with somebody else): and next, That you may receive the visits of Mr. Solmes; which
you have thought fit to refuse to do here; by which means you have deprived yourself of the
opportunity of knowing whom and what you have hitherto refused.

If after one fortnight's conversation with Mr. Solmes, and after you have heard what your friends
shall further urge in his behalf, unhardened by clandestine correspondencies, you shall convince
them, that Virgil's amor omnibus idem (for the application of which I refer you to the Georgic
as translated by Dryden) is verified in you, as well as in the rest of the animal creation;
and that you cannot, or will not forego your prepossession in favour of the moral, the virtuous,
the pious Lovelace, [I would please you if I could!] it will then be considered, whether to
humour you, or to renounce you for ever.

It is hoped, that as you must go, you will go cheerfully. Your uncle Antony will make ever
thing at his house agreeable to you. But indeed he won't promise, that he will not, at proper
times, draw up the bridge.

Your visiters, besides Mr. Solmes, will be myself, if you permit me that honour, Miss Clary;
your sister; and, as you behave to Mr. Solmes, your aunt Hervey, and your uncle Harlowe; and
yet the two latter will hardly come neither, if they think it will be to hear your whining
vocatives.--Betty Barnes will be your attendant: and I must needs tell you, Miss, that we none
of us think the worse of the faithful maid for your dislike of her: although Betty, who would
be glad to oblige you, laments it as a misfortune.

Your answer is required, whether you cheerfully consent to go? And your indulgent mother bids
me remind you from her, that a fortnight's visit from Mr. Solmes, are all that is meant at present.

I am, as you shall be pleased to deserve, Yours, &c. JAMES HARLOWE, JUN.

So here is the master-stroke of my brother's policy! Called upon to consent to go to my uncle
Antony's avowedly to receive Mr. Solmes's visits!--A chapel! A moated-house!--Deprived of the
opportunity of corresponding with you!--or of any possibility of escape, should violence be
used to compel me to be that odious man's!*

     * These violent measures, and the obstinate perseverance of
     the whole family in them, will be the less wondered at, when
     it is considered, that all the time they were but as so many
     puppets danced upon Mr. Lovelace's wires, as he boasts, Vol.
     I. Letter XXXI.

Late as it was when I received this insolent letter, I wrote an answer to it directly, that
it might be ready for the writer's time of rising. I inclose the rough draught of it. You will
see by it how much his vile hint from the Georgic; and his rude one of my whining vocatives,
have set me up. Besides, as the command to get ready to go to my uncle's is in the name of
my father and uncles, it is but to shew a piece of the art they accuse me of, to resent the
vile hint I have so much reason to resent in order to palliate my refusal of preparing to go
to my uncle's; which refusal would otherwise be interpreted an act of rebellion by my brother
and sister: for it seems plain to me, that they will work but half their ends, if they do not
deprive me of my father's and uncles' favour, even although it were possible for me to comply
with their own terms.

You might have told me, Brother, in three lines, what the determination of my friends was;
only, that then you would not have had room to display your pedantry by so detestable an allusion
or reference to the Georgic. Give me leave to tell you, Sir, that if humanity were a branch
of your studies at the university, it has not found a genius in you for mastering it. Nor is
either my sex or myself, though a sister, I see entitled to the least decency from a brother,
who has studied, as it seems, rather to cultivate the malevolence of his natural temper, than
any tendency which one might have hoped his parentage, if not his education, might have given
him to a tolerable politeness.

I doubt not, that you will take amiss my freedom: but as you have deserved it from me, I shall
be less and less concerned on that score, as I see you are more and more intent to shew your
wit at the expense of justice and compassion.

The time is indeed come that I can no longer bear those contempts and reflections which a brother,
least of all men, is entitled to give. And let me beg of you one favour, Sir:--It is this,
That you will not give yourself any concern about a husband for me, till I shall have the forwardness
to propose a wife to you. Pardon me, Sir; but I cannot help thinking, that could I have the
art to get my father of my side, I should have as much right to prescribe for you, as you have
for me.

As to the communication you make me, I must take upon me to say, That although I will receive,
as becomes me, any of my father's commands; yet, as this signification is made by a brother,
who has shewn of late so much of an unbrotherly animosity to me, (for no reason in the world
that I know if, but that he believes he has, in me, one sister too much for his interest,)
I think myself entitled to conclude, that such a letter as you have sent me, is all your own:
and of course to declare, that, while I so think it, I will not willingly, nor even without
violence, go to any place, avowedly to receive Mr. Solmes's visits.

I think myself so much entitled to resent your infamous hint, and this as well for the sake
of my sex, as for my own, that I ought to declare, as I do, that I will not receive any more
of your letters, unless commanded to do so by an authority I never will dispute; except in
a case where I think my future as well as present happiness concerned: and were such a case
to happen, I am sure my father's harshness will be less owing to himself than to you; and to
the specious absurdities of your ambitious and selfish schemes.--Very true, Sir!

One word more, provoked as I am, I will add: That had I been thought as really obstinate and
perverse as of late I am said to be, I should not have been so disgracefully treated as I have
been--Lay your hand upon your heart, Brother, and say, By whose instigations?--And examine
what I have done to deserve to be made thus unhappy, and to be obliged to style myself

Your injured sister, CL. HARLOWE.

When, my dear, you have read my answer to my brother's letter, tell me what you think of me?--It
shall go!

LETTER VII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 23.

My letter has set them all in tumults: for, it seems, none of them went home last night; and
they all were desired to be present to give their advice, if I should refuse compliance with
a command thought so reasonable as it seems this is.

Betty tells me, that at first my father, in a rage, was for coming up to me himself, and for
turning me out of his doors directly. Nor was he restrained, till it was hinted to him, that
that was no doubt my wish, and would answer all my perverse views. But the result was, that
my brother (having really, as my mother and aunt insisted, taken wrong measures with me) should
write again in a more moderate manner: for nobody else was permitted or cared to write to such
a ready scribbler. And, I having declared, that I would not receive any more of his letters,
without command from a superior authority, my mother was to give it hers: and accordingly has
done so in the following lines, written on the superscription of his letter to me: which letter
also follows; together with my reply.

CLARY HARLOWE,

Receive and read this, with the temper that becomes your sex, your character, your education,
and your duty: and return an answer to it, directed to your brother.

CHARLOTTE HARLOWE.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE THURSDAY MORNING.

Once more I write, although imperiously prohibited by a younger sister. Your mother will have
me do so, that you may be destitute of all defence, if you persist in your pervicacy. Shall
I be a pedant, Miss, for this word? She is willing to indulge in you the least appearance of
that delicacy for which she once, as well as every body else, admired you--before you knew
Lovelace; I cannot, however, help saying that: and she, and your aunt Hervey, will have it--[they
would fain favour you, if they could] that I may have provoked from you the answer they nevertheless
own to be so exceedingly unbecoming. I am now learning, you see, to take up the softer language,
where you have laid it down. This then is the case:

They entreat, they pray, they beg, they supplicate (will either of these do, Miss Clary?) that
you will make no scruple to go to your uncle Antony's: and fairly I am to tell you, for the
very purpose mentioned in my last--or, 'tis presumable, they need not entreat, beg, pray, supplicate.
Thus much is promised to Mr. Solmes, who is your advocate, and very uneasy that you should
be under constraint, supposing that your dislike to him arises from that. And, if he finds
that you are not to be moved in his favour, when you are absolutely freed from what you call
a controul, he will forbear thinking of you, whatever it costs him. He loves you too well:
and in this, I really think, his understanding, which you have reflected upon, is to be questioned.

Only for one fornight [sic], therefore, permit his visits. Your education (you tell me of mine,
you know) ought to make you incapable of rudeness to any body. He will not, I hope, be the
first man, myself excepted, whom you ever treated rudely, purely because he is esteemed by
us all. I am, what you have a mind to make me, friend, brother, or servant--I wish I could
be still more polite, to so polite, to so delicate, a sister.

JA. HARLOWE.

You must still write to me, if you condescend to reply. Your mother will not be permitted to
be disturbed with your nothing-meaning vocatives!--Vocatives, once more, Madam Clary, repeats
the pedant your brother!

*****

TO JAMES HARLOWE, JUNIOR, ESQ.

Permit me, my ever-dear and honoured Papa and Mamma, in this manner to surprise you into an
audience, (presuming this will be read to you,) since I am denied the honour of writing to
you directly. Let me beg of you to believe, that nothing but the most unconquerable dislike
could make me stand against your pleasure. What are riches, what are settlements, to happiness?
Let me not thus cruelly be given up to a man my very soul is averse to. Permit me to repeat,
that I cannot honestly be his. Had I a slighter notion of the matrimonial duty than I have,
perhaps I might. But when I am to bear all the misery, and that for life; when my heart is
less concerned in this matter, than my soul; my temporary, perhaps, than my future good; why
should I be denied the liberty of refusing? That liberty is all I ask.

It were easy for me to give way to hear Mr. Solmes talk for the mentioned fortnight, although
it is impossible for me, say what he would, to get over my dislike to him. But the moated-house,
the chapel there, and the little mercy my brother and sister, who are to be there, have hitherto
shewn me, are what I am extremely apprehensive of. And why does my brother say, my restraint
is to be taken off, (and that too at Mr. Solmes's desire,) when I am to be a still closer prisoner
than before; the bridge threatened to be drawn up; and no dear papa and mamma near me, to appeal
to, in the last resort?

Transfer not, I beseech you, to a brother and sister your own authority over your child--to
a brother and sister, who treat me with unkindness and reproach; and, as I have too much reason
to apprehend, misrepresent my words and behaviour; or, greatly favoured as I used to be, it
is impossible I should be sunk so low in your opinions, as I unhappily am!

Let but this my hard, my disgraceful confinement be put an end to. Permit me, my dear Mamma,
to pursue my needleworks in your presence, as one of your maidens; and you shall be witness,
that it is not either wilfulness or prepossession that governs me. Let me not, however, be
put out of your own house. Let Mr. Solmes come and go, as my papa pleases: let me but stay
or retire when he comes, as I can; and leave the rest to Providence.

Forgive me, Brother, that thus, with an appearance of art, I address myself to my father and
mother, to whom I am forbidden to approach, or to write. Hard it is to be reduced to such a
contrivance! Forgive likewise the plain dealing I have used in the above, with the nobleness
of a gentleman, and the gentleness due from a brother to a sister. Although of late you have
given me but little room to hope either for your favour or compassion; yet, having not deserved
to forfeit either, I presume to claim both: for I am confident it is at present much in your
power, although but my brother (my honoured parents both, I bless God, in being), to give peace
to the greatly disturbed mind of

Your unhappy sister, CL. HARLOWE.

Betty tells me, my brother has taken my letter all in pieces; and has undertaken to write such
an answer to it, as shall confirm the wavering. So, it is plain, that I should have moved somebody
by it, but for this hard-hearted brother--God forgive him!

LETTER VIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY NIGHT, MARCH 23.

I send you the boasted confutation-letter, just now put into my hands. My brother and sister,
my uncle Antony and Mr. Solmes, are, I understand, exulting over the copy of it below, as an
unanswerable performance.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

Once again, my inflexible Sister, I write to you. It is to let you know, that the pretty piece
of art you found out to make me the vehicle of your whining pathetics to your father and mother,
has not had the expected effect.

I do assure you, that your behaviour has not been misrepresented--nor need it. Your mother,
who is solicitous to take all opportunities of putting the most favourable constructions upon
all you do, has been forced, as you well know, to give you up, upon full trial. No need then
of the expedient of pursuing your needleworks in her sight. She cannot bear your whining pranks:
and it is for her sake, that you are not permitted to come into her presence--nor will be,
but upon her own terms.

You had like to have made a simpleton of your aunt Hervey yesterday: she came down from you,
pleading in your favour. But when she was asked, What concession she had brought you to? she
looked about her, and knew not what to answer. So your mother, when surprised into the beginning
of your cunning address to her and to your father, under my name, (for I had begun to read
it, little suspecting such an ingenious subterfuge,)and would then make me read it through,
wrung her hands, Oh! her dear child, her dear child, must not be so compelled!--But when she
was asked, Whether she would be willing to have for her son-in-law the man who bids defiance
to her whole family; and who had like to have murdered her son? And what concession she had
gained from her dear child to merit this tenderness? And that for one who had apparently deceived
her in assuring her that her heart was free?--Then could she look about her, as her sister
had done before: then was she again brought to herself, and to a resolution to assert her authority
[not to transfer it, witty presumer!] over the rebel, who of late has so ungratefully struggled
to throw it off.

You seem, child, to have a high notion of the matrimonial duty; and I'll warrant, like the
rest of your sex, (one or two, whom I have the honour to know, excepted,) that you will go
to church to promise what you will never think of afterwards. But, sweet child! as your worthy
Mamma Norton calls you, think a little less of the matrimonial, (at least, till you come into
that state,) and a little more of the filial duty.

How can you say, you are to bear all the misery, when you give so large a share of it to your
parents, to your uncles, to your aunt, to myself, and to your sister; who all, for eighteen
years of your life, loved you so well?

If of late I have not given you room to hope for my favour or compassion, it is because of
late you have not deserved either. I know what you mean, little reflecting fool, by saying,
it is much in my power, although but your brother, (a very slight degree of relationship with
you,) to give you that peace which you can give yourself whenever you please.

The liberty of refusing, pretty Miss, is denied you, because we are all sensible, that the
liberty of choosing, to every one's dislike, must follow. The vile wretch you have set your
heart upon speaks this plainly to every body, though you won't. He says you are his, and shall
be his, and he will be the death of any man who robs him of his PROPERTY. So, Miss, we have
a mind to try this point with him. My father, supposing he has the right of a father in his
child, is absolutely determined not to be bullied out of that right. And what must that child
be, who prefers the rake to a father?

This is the light in which this whole debate ought to be taken. Blush, then, Delicacy, that
cannot bear the poet's amor omnibus idem!--Blush, then, Purity! Be ashamed, Virgin Modesty!
And, if capable of conviction, surrender your whole will to the will of the honoured pair,
to whom you owe your being: and beg of all your friends to forgive and forget the part you
have of late acted.

I have written a longer letter than ever I designed to write to you, after the insolent treatment
and prohibition you have given me: and, now I am commissioned to tell you, that your friends
are as weary of confining you, as you are of being confined. And therefore you must prepare
yourself to go in a very few days, as you have been told before, to your uncle Antony's; who,
notwithstanding you apprehensions, will draw up his bridge when he pleases; will see what company
he pleases in his own house; nor will he demolish his chapel to cure you of your foolish late-commenced
antipathy to a place of divine worship.--The more foolish, as, if we intended to use force,
we could have the ceremony pass in your chamber, as well as any where else.

Prejudice against Mr. Solmes has evidently blinded you, and there is a charitable necessity
to open your eyes: since no one but you thinks the gentleman so contemptible in his person;
nor, for a plain country gentleman, who has too much solid sense to appear like a coxcomb,
justly blamable in his manners.--And as to his temper, it is necessary you should speak upon
fuller knowledge, than at present it is plain you can have of him.

Upon the whole, it will not be amiss, that you prepare for your speedy removal, as well for
the sake of your own conveniency, as to shew your readiness, in one point, at least, to oblige
your friends; one of whom you may, if you please to deserve it, reckon, though but a brother,

JAMES HARLOWE.

P.S. If you are disposed to see Mr. Solmes, and to make some excuses to him for past conduct,
in order to be able to meet him somewhere else with the less concern to yourself for your freedoms
with him, he shall attend you where you please.

If you have a mind to read the settlements, before they are read to you for your signing, they
shall be sent you up--Who knows, but they will help you to some fresh objections?--Your heart
is free, you know--It must--For, did you not tell your mother it was? And will the pious Clarissa
fib to her mamma?

I desire no reply. The case requires none. Yet I will ask you, Have you, Miss, no more proposals
to make?

*****

I was so vexed when I came to the end of this letter, (the postscript to which, perhaps, might
be written after the others had seen the letter,) that I took up my pen, with an intent to
write to my uncle Harlowe about resuming my own estate, in pursuance of your advice. But my
heart failed me, when I recollected, that I had not one friend to stand by or support me in
my claim; and it would but the more incense them, without answering any good end. Oh! that
my cousin were but come!

Is it not a sad thing, beloved as I thought myself so lately by every one, that now I have
not one person in the world to plead for me, to stand by me, or who would afford me refuge,
were I to be under the necessity of asking for it!--I who had the vanity to think I had as
many friends as I saw faces, and flattered myself too, that it was not altogether unmerited,
because I saw not my Maker's image, either in man, woman, or child, high or low, rich or poor,
whom, comparatively, I loved not as myself.--Would to heaven, my dear, that you were married!
Perhaps, then, you could have induced Mr. Hickman to afford me protection, till these storms
were over-blown. But then this might have involved him in difficulties and dangers; and that
I would not have done for the world.

I don't know what to do, not I!--God forgive me, but I am very impatient! I wish--But I don't
know what to wish, without a sin!--Yet I wish it would please God to take me to his mercy!--I
can meet with none here--What a world is this!--What is there in it desirable? The good we
hope for, so strangely mixed, that one knows not what to wish for! And one half of mankind
tormenting the other, and being tormented themselves in tormenting!--For here is this my particular
case, my relations cannot be happy, though they make me unhappy!--Except my brother and sister,
indeed--and they seem to take delight in and enjoy the mischief they make.

But it is time to lay down my pen, since my ink runs nothing but gall.

LETTER IX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY MORNING, SIX O'CLOCK

Mrs. Betty tells me, there is now nothing talked of but of my going to my uncle Antony's. She
has been ordered, she says, to get ready to attend me thither: and, upon my expressing my averseness
to go, had the confidence to say, That having heard me often praise the romanticness of the
place, she was astonished (her hands and eyes lifted up) that I should set myself against going
to a house so much in my taste.

I asked if this was her own insolence, or her young mistress's observation?

She half-astonished me by her answer: That it was hard she could not say a good thing, without
being robbed of the merit of it.

As the wench looked as if she really thought she had said a good thing, without knowing the
boldness of it, I let it pass. But, to say the truth, this creature has surprised me on many
occasions with her smartness: for, since she has been employed in this controuling office,
I have discovered a great deal of wit in her assurance, which I never suspected before. This
shews, that insolence is her talent: and that Fortune, in placing her as a servant to my sister,
had not done so kindly by her as Nature; for that she would make a better figure as her companion.
And indeed I can't help thinking sometimes, that I myself was better fitted by Nature to be
the servant of both, than the mistress of the one, or the servant of the other. And within
these few months past, Fortune has acted by me, as if she were of the same mind.

FRIDAY, TEN O'CLOCK

Going down to my poultry-yard, just now, I heard my brother and sister and that Solmes laughing
and triumphing together. The high yew-hedge between us, which divides the yard from the garden,
hindered them from seeing me.

My brother, as I found, has been reading part, or the whole perhaps, of the copy of his last
letter--Mighty prudent, and consistent, you'll say, with their views to make me the wife of
a man from whom they conceal not what, were I to be such, it would be kind in them to endeavour
to conceal, out of regard to my future peace!--But I have no doubt, that they hate me heartily.

Indeed, you was up with her there, brother, said my sister. You need not have bid her not to
write to you. I'll engage, with all her wit, she'll never pretend to answer it.

Why, indeed, said my brother, with an air of college-sufficiency, with which he abounds, (for
he thinks nobody writes like himself,) I believe I have given her a choke-pear. What say you,
Mr. Solmes?

Why, Sir, said he, I think it is unanswerable. But will it not exasperate he more against me?

Never fear, Mr. Solmes, said my brother, but we'll carry our point, if she do not tire you
out first. We have gone too far in this method to recede. Her cousin Morden will soon be here:
so all must be over before that time, or she'll be made independent of us all.

There, Miss Howe, is the reason given for their jehu-driving.

Mr. Solmes declared, that he was determined to persevere while my brother gave him any hopes,
and while my father stood firm.

My sister told my brother, that he hit me charmingly on the reason why I ought to converse
with Mr. Solmes: but that he should not be so smart upon the sex, for the faults of this perverse
girl.

Some lively, and, I suppose, witty answer, my brother returned; for he and Mr. Solmes laughed
outrageously upon it, and Bella, laughing too, called him a naughty man: but I heard no more
of what they said; they walked on into the garden.

If you think, my dear, that what I have related did not again fire me, you will find yourself
mistaken when you read at this place the enclosed copy of my letter to my brother; struck off
while the iron was red hot.

No more call me meek and gentle, I beseech you.

TO MR. JAMES HARLOWE

FRIDAY MORNING.

SIR,

If, notwithstanding your prohibition, I should be silent, on occasion of your last, you would,
perhaps, conclude, that I was consenting to go to my uncle Antony's upon the condition you
mention. My father must do as he pleases with his child. He may turn me out of his doors, if
he thinks fit, or give you leave to do it; but (loth as I am to say it) I should think it very
hard to be carried by force to any body's house, when I have one of my own to go to.

Far be it from me, notwithstanding yours and my sister's provocations, to think of my taking
my estate into my own hands, without my father's leave: But why, if I must not stay any longer
here, may I not be permitted to go thither? I will engage to see nobody they would not have
me see, if this favour be permitted. Favour I call it, and am ready to receive and acknowledge
it as such, although my grandfather's will has made it a matter of right.

You ask me, in a very unbrotherly manner, in the postscript to your letter, if I have not some
new proposals to make? I HAVE (since you put the question) three or four; new ones all, I think;
though I will be bold to say, that, submitting the case to any one person whom you have not
set against me, my old ones ought not to have been rejected. I think this; why then should
I not write it?--Nor have you any more reason to storm at your sister for telling it you, (since
you seem in your letter to make it your boast how you turned my mother and my aunt Hervey against
me,) than I have to be angry with my brother, for treating me as no brother ought to treat
a sister.

These, then, are my new proposals.

That, as above, I may not be hindered from going to reside (under such conditions as shall
be prescribed to me, which I will most religiously observe) at my grandfather's late house.
I will not again in this place call it mine. I have reason to think it a great misfortune that
ever it was so--indeed I have.

If this be not permitted, I desire leave to go for a month, or for what time shall be thought
fit, to Miss Howe's. I dare say my mother will consent to it, if I have my father's permission
to go.

If this, neither, be allowed, and I am to be turned out of my father's house, I beg I may be
suffered to go to my aunt Hervey's, where I will inviolably observe her commands, and those
of my father and mother.

But if this, neither, is to be granted, it is my humble request, that I may be sent to my uncle
Harlowe's, instead of my uncle Antony's. I mean not by this any disrespect to my uncle Antony:
but his moat, with his bridge threatened to be drawn up, and perhaps the chapel there, terrify
me beyond expression, notwithstanding your witty ridicule upon me for that apprehension.

If this likewise be refused, and if I must be carried to the moated-house, which used to be
a delightful one to me, let it be promised me, that I shall not be compelled to receive Mr.
Solmes's visits there; and then I will as cheerfully go, as ever I did.

So here, Sir, are your new proposals. And if none of them answer your end, as each of them
tends to the exclusion of that ungenerous persister's visits, be pleased to know, that there
is no misfortune I will not submit to, rather than yield to give my hand to the man to whom
I can allow no share in my heart.

If I write in a style different from my usual, and different from what I wished to have occasion
to write, an impartial person, who knew what I have accidentally, within this hour past, heard
from your mouth, and my sister's, and a third person's, (particularly the reason you give for
driving on at this violent rate, to wit, my cousin Morden's soon-expected arrival,) would think
I have but too much reason for it. Then be pleased to remember, Sir, that when my whining vocatives
have subjected me to so much scorn and ridicule, it is time, were it but to imitate examples
so excellent as you and my sister set me, that I should endeavour to assert my character, in
order to be thought less an alien, and nearer of kin to you both, than either of you have of
late seemed to suppose me.

Give me leave, in order to empty my female quiver at once, to add, that I know no other reason
which you can have for forbidding me to reply to you, after you have written what you pleased
to me, than that you are conscious you cannot answer to reason and to justice the treatment
you have given me.

If it be otherwise, I, an unlearned, an unlogical girl, younger by near a third than yourself,
will venture (so assured am I of the justice of my cause) to put my fate upon an issue with
you: with you, Sir, who have had the advantage of an academical education; whose mind must
have been strengthened by observation, and learned conversation, and who, pardon my going so
low, have been accustomed to give choke-pears to those you vouchsafe to write against.

Any impartial person, your late tutor, for instance, or the pious and worthy Dr. Lewen, may
be judge between us: and if either give it against me, I will promise to resign to my destiny:
provided, if it be given against you, that my father will be pleased only to allow of my negative
to the person so violently sought to be imposed upon me.

I flatter myself, Brother, that you will the readier come into this proposal, as you seem to
have a high opinion of your talents for argumentation; and not a low one of the cogency of
the arguments contained in your last letter. And if I can possibly have no advantage in a contention
with you, if the justice of my cause affords me not any (as you have no opinion it will,) it
behoves you, methinks, to shew to an impartial moderator that I am wrong, and you not so.

If this be accepted, there is a necessity for its being carried on by the pen; the facts being
stated, and agreed upon by both; and the decision to be given, according to the force of the
arguments each shall produce in support of their side of the question: for give me leave to
say, I know too well the manliness of your temper, to offer at a personal debate with you.

If it be not accepted, I shall conclude, that you cannot defend your conduct towards me; and
shall only beg of you, that, for the future, you will treat me with the respect due to a sister
from a brother who would be thought as polite as learned.

And now, Sir, if I have seemed to shew some spirit, not foreign to the relation I have the
honour to be to you, and to my sister; and which may be deemed not altogether of a piece with
that part of my character which once, it seems, gained me every one's love; be pleased to consider
to whom, and to what it is owing; and that this part of that character was not dispensed with,
till it subjected me to that scorn, and to those insults, which a brother, who has been so
tenacious of an independence voluntarily given up by me, and who has appeared so exalted upon
it, ought not to have shewn to any body, much less to a weak and defenceless sister; who is,
notwithstanding, an affectionate and respectful one, and would be glad to shew herself to be
so upon all future occasions; as she has in every action of her past life, although of late
she has met with such unkind returns.

CL. HARLOWE

*****

See, my dear, the force, and volubility, as I may say, of passion; for the letter I send you
is my first draught, struck off without a blot or erasure.

*****

FRIDAY, THREE O'CLOCK

As soon as I had transcribed it, I sent it down to my brother by Mrs. Betty.

The wench came up soon after, all aghast, with a Laud, Miss! What have you done?--What have
you written? For you have set them all in a joyful uproar!

*****

My sister is but this moment gone from me. She came up all in a flame; which obliged me abruptly
to lay down my pen: she ran to me--

O Spirit! said she; tapping my neck a little too hard. And is it come to this at last--!

Do you beat me, Bella?

Do you call this beating you? only tapping you shoulder thus, said she; tapping again more
gently--This is what we expected it would come to--You want to be independent--My father has
lived too long for you--!

I was going to speak with vehemence; but she put her handkerchief before my mouth, very rudely--You
have done enough with your pen, mean listener, as you are!--But know that neither your independent
scheme, nor any of your visiting ones, will be granted you. Take your course, perverse one!
Call in your rake to help you to an independence upon your parents, and a dependence upon him!--Do
so!--Prepare this moment--resolve what you will take with you--to-morrow you go--depend upon
it to-morrow you go!--No longer shall you stay here, watching and creeping about to hearken
to what people say--'Tis determined, child!--You go to-morrow--my brother would have come up
to tell you so; but I persuaded him to the contrary--for I know not what had become of you,
if he had--Such a letter! such an insolent, such a conceited challenger!--O thou vain creature!
But prepare yourself, I say--to-morrow you go--my brother will accept of your bold challenge;
but it must be personal; and at my uncle Antony's--or perhaps at Mr. Solmes's--

Thus she ran on, almost foaming with passion; till, quite out of patience, I said, No more
of your violence, Bella--Had I known in what way you designed to come up, you should not have
found my chamber-door open--talk to your servant in this manner. Unlike you, as I bless God
I am, I am nevertheless your sister--and let me tell you, that I won't go to-morrow, nor next
day, nor next day to that--except I am dragged away by violence.

What! not if your father or mother command it--Girl? said she, intending another word, by her
pause and manner before it came out.

Let it come to that, Bella; then I shall know what to say. But it shall be from their own mouths,
if I do--not from yours, nor you Betty's--And say another word to me, in this manner, and be
the consequence what it may, I will force myself into their presence; and demand what I have
done to be used thus!

Come along, Child! Come along, Meekness--taking my hand, and leading me towards the door--Demand
it of them now--you'll find both your despised parents together!--What! does your heart fail
you?--for I resisted, being thus insolently offered to be led, and pulled my hand from her.

I want not to be led, said I; and since I can plead your invitation, I will go: and was posting
to the stairs accordingly in my passion--but she got between me and the door, and shut it--

Let me first, Bold one, said she, apprize them of your visit--for your own sake let me--for
my brother is with them. But yet opening it again, seeing me shrink back--Go, if you will!--Why
don't you go?--Why don't you go, Miss?--following me to my closet, whither I retired, with
my heart full, and pulled the sash-door after me; and could no longer hold in my tears.

Nor would I answer one word to her repeated aggravations, nor to her demands upon me to open
my door (for the key was on the inside); nor so much as turn my head towards her, as she looked
through the glass at me. And at last, which vexed her to the heart, I drew the silk curtain,
that she should not see me, and down she went muttering all the way.

Is not this usage enough to provoke a rashness never before thought of?

As it is but too probable that I may be hurried away to my uncle's without being able to give
you previous notice of it; I beg that as soon as you shall hear of such a violence, you would
send to the usual place, to take back such of your letters as may not have reached my hands,
or to fetch any of mine that may be there.

May you, my dear, be always happy, prays you CLARISSA HARLOWE.

I have received your four letters. But am in such a ferment, that I cannot at present write
to them.

LETTER X

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY NIGHT, MARCH 24.

I have a most provoking letter from my sister. I might have supposed she would resent the contempt
she brought upon herself in my chamber. Her conduct surely can only be accounted for by the
rage instigate by a supposed rivalry.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

I am to tell you, that your mother has begged you off for the morrow: but that you have effectually
done your business with her, as well as with every body else.

In your proposals and letter to your brother, you have shewn yourself so silly, and so wise;
so young, and so old; so gentle, and so obstinate; so meek, and so violent; that never was
there so mixed a character.

We all know of whom you have borrowed this new spirit. And yet the seeds of it must be in your
heart, or it could not all at once shew itself so rampant. It would be doing Mr. Solmes a spite
to wish him such a shy, un-shy girl; another of your contradictory qualities--I leave you to
make out what I mean by it.

Here, Miss, your mother will not let you remain: she cannot have any peace of mind while such
a rebel of a child is so near her. Your aunt Hervey will not take a charge which all the family
put together cannot manage. Your uncle Harlowe will not see you at his house, till you are
married. So, thanks to your own stubbornness, you have nobody that will receive you but your
uncle Antony. Thither you must go in a very few days; and, when there, your brother will settle
with you, in my presence, all that relates to your modest challenge; for it is accepted, I
assure you. Dr. Lewen will possibly be there, since you make choice of him. Another gentleman
likewise, were it but to convince you, that he is another sort of man than you have taken him
to be. Your two uncles will possibly be there too, to see that the poor, weak, and defenceless
sister has fair play. So, you see, Miss, what company your smart challenge will draw together.

Prepare for the day. You'll soon be called upon. Adieu, Mamma Norton's sweet child!

ARAB. HARLOWE.

*****

I transcribed this letter, and sent it to my mother, with these lines:

A very few words, my ever-honoured Mamma!

If my sister wrote the enclosed by my father's direction, or yours, I must submit to the usage
she gave me in it, with this only observation, That it is short of the personal treatment I
have received from her. If it be of her own head--why then, Madam--But I knew that when I was
banished from your presence--Yet, till I know if she has or has not authority for this usage,
I will only write further, that I am

Your very unhappy child, CL. HARLOWE.

*****

This answer I received in an open slip of paper; but it was wet in one place. I kissed the
place; for I am sure it was blistered, as I may say, by a mother's tear!--She must (I hope
she must) have written it reluctantly.

To apply for protection, where authority is defied, is bold. Your sister, who would not in
your circumstances have been guilty of your perverseness, may allowably be angry at you for
it. However, we have told her to moderate her zeal for our insulted authority. See, if you
can deserve another behaviour, than that you complain of: which cannot, however be so grievous
to you, as the cause of it is to

Your more unhappy Mother.

How often must I forbid you any address to me!

*****

Give me, my dearest Miss Howe, your opinion, what I can, what I ought to do. Not what you would
do (pushed as I am pushed) in resentment or passion--since, so instigated, you tell me, that
you should have been with somebody before now--and steps taken in passion hardly ever fail
of giving cause for repentance: but acquaint me with what you think cool judgment, and after-reflection,
whatever were to be the event, will justify.

I doubt not your sympathizing love: but yet you cannot possibly feel indignity and persecution
so very sensibly as the immediate sufferer feels them--are fitter therefore to advise me, than
I am myself.

I will here rest my cause. Have I, or have I not, suffered or borne enough? And if they will
still persevere; if that strange persister against an antipathy so strongly avowed, will still
persist; say, What can I do?--What course pursue?--Shall I fly to London, and endeavour to
hide myself from Lovelace, as well as from all my own relations, till my cousin Morden arrives?
Or shall I embark for Leghorn in my way to my cousin? Yet, my sex, my youth, considered, how
full of danger is this last measure!--And may not my cousin be set out for England, while I
am getting thither?--What can I do?--Tell me, tell me, my dearest Miss Howe, [for I dare not
trust myself,] tell me, what I can do.

ELEVEN O'CLOCK AT NIGHT.

I have been forced to try to compose my angry passions at my harpsichord; having first shut
close my doors and windows, that I might not be heard below. As I was closing the shutters
of the windows, the distant whooting of the bird of Minerva, as from the often-visited woodhouse,
gave the subject in that charming Ode to Wisdom, which does honour to our sex, as it was written
by one of it. I made an essay, a week ago, to set the three last stanzas of it, as not unsuitable
to my unhappy situation; and after I had re-perused the Ode, those were my lesson; and, I am
sure, in the solemn address they contain to the All-Wise and All-powerful Deity, my heart went
with my fingers.

I enclose the Ode, and my effort with it. The subject is solemn; my circumstances are affecting;
and I flatter myself, that I have not been quite unhappy in the performance. If it obtain your
approbation, I shall be out of doubt, and should be still more assured, could I hear it tried
by your voice and finger.

ODE TO WISDOM BY A LADY

     I.
     The solitary bird of night
     Thro' thick shades now wings his flight,
        And quits his time-shook tow'r;
     Where, shelter'd from the blaze of day,
     In philosophic gloom he lay,
        Beneath his ivy bow'r.

     II.
     With joy I hear the solemn sound,
     Which midnight echoes waft around,
        And sighing gales repeat.
     Fav'rite of Pallas! I attend,
     And, faithful to thy summons, bend
        At Wisdom's awful seat.

     III.
     She loves the cool, the silent eve,
     Where no false shows of life deceive,
        Beneath the lunar ray.
     Here folly drops each vain disguise;
     Nor sport her gaily colour'd dyes,
        As in the beam of day.

     IV.
     O Pallas! queen of ev'ry art,
     That glads the sense, and mends the heart,
        Blest source of purer joys!
     In ev'ry form of beauty bright,
     That captivates the mental sight
        With pleasure and surprise;

     V.
     To thy unspotted shrine I bow:
     Attend thy modest suppliant's vow,
        That breathes no wild desires;
     But, taught by thy unerring rules,
     To shun the fruitless wish of fools,
        To nobler views aspires.

     VI.
     Not Fortune's gem, Ambition's plume,
     Nor Cytherea's fading bloom,
        Be objects of my prayer:
     Let av'rice, vanity, and pride,
     Those envy'd glitt'ring toys divide,
        The dull rewards of care.

     VII.
     To me thy better gifts impart,
     Each moral beauty of the heart,
        By studious thought refin'd;
     For wealth, the smile of glad content;
     For pow'r, its amplest, best extent,
        An empire o'er my mind.

     VIII.
     When Fortune drops her gay parade.
     When Pleasure's transient roses fade,
        And wither in the tomb,
     Unchang'd is thy immortal prize;
     Thy ever-verdant laurels rise
        In undecaying bloom.

     IX.
     By thee protected, I defy
     The coxcomb's sneer, the stupid lie
        Of ignorance and spite:
     Alike contemn the leaden fool,
     And all the pointed ridicule
        Of undiscerning wit.

     X.
     From envy, hurry, noise, and strife,
     The dull impertinence of life,
        In thy retreat I rest:
     Pursue thee to the peaceful groves,
     Where Plato's sacred spirit roves,
        In all thy beauties drest.

     XI.
     He bad Ilyssus' tuneful stream
     Convey thy philosophic theme
        Of perfect, fair, and good:
     Attentive Athens caught the sound,
     And all her list'ning sons around
        In awful silence stood.

     XII.
     Reclaim'd her wild licentious youth,
     Confess'd the potent voice of Truth,
        And felt its just controul.
     The Passions ceas'd their loud alarms,
     And Virtue's soft persuasive charms
        O'er all their senses stole.

     XIII.
     Thy breath inspires the Poet's song
     The Patriot's free, unbiass'd tongue,
        The Hero's gen'rous strife;
     Thine are retirement's silent joys,
     And all the sweet engaging ties
        Of still, domestic life.

     XIV.
     No more to fabled names confin'd;
     To Thee supreme, all perfect mind,
        My thought direct their flight.
     Wisdom's thy gift, and all her force
     From thee deriv'd, Eternal source
        Of Intellectual Light!

     XV.
     O send her sure, her steady ray,
     To regulate my doubtful way,
        Thro' life's perplexing road:
     The mists of error to controul,
     And thro' its gloom direct my soul
        To happiness and good.

     XVI.
     Beneath her clear discerning eye
     The visionary shadows fly
        Of Folly's painted show.
     She sees thro' ev'ry fair disguise,
     That all but Virtue's solid joys,
        Is vanity and woe.

[Facsimile of the music to "The Ode to Wisdom" (verse 14).]

LETTER XI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY MIDNIGHT.

I have now a calmer moment. Envy, ambition, high and selfish resentment, and all the violent
passions, are now, most probably, asleep all around me; and shall now my own angry ones give
way to the silent hour, and subside likewise?--They have given way to it; and I have made use
of the gentler space to re-peruse your last letters. I will touch upon some passages in them.
And that I may the less endanger the but-just recovered calm, I will begin with what you write
about Mr. Hickman.

Give me leave to say, That I am sorry you cannot yet persuade yourself to think better, that
is to say, more justly, of that gentleman, than your whimsical picture of him shews you so;
or, at least, than the humourousness of your natural vein would make one think you do.

I do not imagine, that you yourself will say, he sat for the picture you have drawn. And yet,
upon the whole, it is not greatly to his disadvantage. Were I at ease in my mind, I would venture
to draw a much more amiable and just likeness.

If Mr. Hickman has not that assurance which some men have, he has that humility and gentleness
which many want: and which, with the infinite value he has for you, will make him one of the
fittest husbands in the world for a person of your vivacity and spirit.

Although you say I would not like him myself, I do assure you, if Mr. Solmes were such a man
as Mr. Hickman, in person, mind, and behaviour, my friends and I had never disagreed about
him, if they would not have permitted me to live single; Mr. Lovelace (having such a character
as he has) would have stood no chance with me. This I can the more boldly aver, because I plainly
perceive, that of the two passions, love and fear, this man will be able to inspire one with
a much greater proportion of the latter, than I imagine is compatible with the former, to make
a happy marriage.

I am glad you own, that you like no one better than Mr. Hickman. In a little while, I make
no doubt, you will be able, if you challenge your heart upon it, to acknowledge, that you like
not any man so well: especially, when you come to consider, that the very faults you find in
Mr. Hickman, admirably fit him to make you happy: that is to say, if it be necessary to your
happiness, that you should have your own will in every thing.

But let me add one thing: and that is this:--You have such a sprightly turn, that, with your
admirable talents, you would make any man in the world, who loved you, look like a fool, except
he were such a one as Lovelace.

Forgive me, my dear, for my frankness: and forgive me, also, for so soon returning to subject
so immediately relative to myself, as those I now must touch upon.

You again insist (strengthened by Mr. Lovelace's opinion) upon my assuming my own estate [I
cannot call it resuming, having never been in possession of it]: and I have given you room
to expect, that I will consider this subject more closely than I have done before. I must however
own, that the reasons which I had to offer against taking your advice were so obvious, that
I thought you would have seen them yourself, and been determined by them, against your own
hastier counsel.--But since this has not been so, and that both you and Mr. Lovelace call upon
me to assume my own estate, I will enter briefly into the subject.

In the first place, let me ask you, my dear, supposing I were inclined to follow your advice,
Whom have I to support me in my demand? My uncle Harlowe is one of my trustees--he is against
me. My cousin Morden is the other--he is in Italy, and very probably may be set against me
too. My brother has declared, that they are resolved to carry their points before he arrives:
so that, as they drive on, all will probably be decided before I can have an answer from him,
were I to write: and, confined as I am, were the answer to come in time, and they did not like
it, they would keep it from me.

In the next place, parents have great advantages in every eye over the child, if she dispute
their pleasure in the disposing of her: and so they ought; since out of twenty instances, perhaps
two could not be produced, when they were not in the right, the child in the wrong.

You would not, I am sure, have me accept of Mr. Lovelace's offered assistance in such a claim.
If I would embrace any other person's, who else would care to appear for a child against parents,
ever, till of late, so affectionate?==But were such a protector to be found, what a length
of time would it take up in a course of litigation! The will and the deeds have flaws in them,
they say. My brother sometimes talks of going to reside at The Grove: I suppose, with a design
to make ejectments necessary, were I to offer at assuming; or, were I to marry Mr. Lovelace,
in order to give him all the opposition and difficulty the law would help him to give.

These cases I have put to myself, for argument-sake: but they are all out of the question,
although any body were to be found who would espouse my cause: for I do assure you, I would
sooner beg my bread, than litigate for my right with my father: since I am convinced, that
whether the parent do his duty by the child or not, the child cannot be excused from doing
hers to him. And to go to law with my father, what a sound has that! You will see, that I have
mentioned my wish (as an alternative, and as a favour) to be permitted, if I must be put out
of his house, to go thither: but not one step further can I go. And you see how this is resented.

Upon the whole, then, what have I to hope for, but a change in my father's resolution?--And
is there any probability of that; such an ascendancy as my brother and sister have obtained
over every body; and such an interest to pursue the enmity they have now openly avowed against me?

As to Mr. Lovelace's approbation of your assumption-scheme, I wonder not at. He very probably
penetrates the difficulties I should have to bring it to effect, without his assistance. Were
I to find myself as free as I would wish myself to be, perhaps Mr. Lovelace would stand a worse
chance with me than his vanity may permit him to imagine; notwithstanding the pleasure you
take in rallying me on his account. How know you, but all that appears to be specious and reasonable
in his offers; such as, standing his chance for my favour, after I became independent, as I
may call it [by which I mean no more, than to have the liberty of refusing for my husband a
man whom it hurts me but to think of in that light]; and such as his not visiting me but by
my leave; and till Mr. Morden come; and till I am satisfied of his reformation;--How know you,
I say, that he gives not himself these airs purely to stand better in your graces as well as
mine, by offering of his own accord conditions which he must needs think would be insisted
on, were the case to happen?

Then am I utterly displeased with him. To threaten as he threatens; yet to pretend, that it
is not to intimidate me; and to beg of you not to tell me, when he must know you would, and
no doubt intended that you should, is so meanly artful!--The man must think he has a frightened
fool to deal with.--I, to join hands with such a man of violence! my own brother the man whom
he threatens!--And what has Mr. Solmes done to him?--Is he to be blamed, if he thinks a person
would make a wife worth having, to endeavour to obtain her?--Oh that my friends would but leave
me to my own way in this one point! For have I given the man encouragement sufficient to ground
these threats upon? Were Mr. Solmes a man to whom I could but be indifferent, it might be found,
that to have spirit, would very little answer the views of that spirit. It is my fortune to
be treated as a fool by my brother: but Mr. Lovelace shall find--Yet I will let him know my
mind; and then it will come with a better grace to your knowledge.

Mean time, give me leave to tell you, that it goes against me, in my cooler moments, unnatural
as my brother is to me, to have you, my dear, who are my other self, write such very severe
reflections upon him, in relation to the advantage Lovelace had over him. He is not indeed
your brother: but remember, that you write to his sister.--Upon my word, my dear Miss Howe,
you dip your pen in gall whenever you are offended: and I am almost ready to question, whether
I read some of your expressions against others of my relations as well as him, (although in
my favour,) whether you are so thoroughly warranted to call other people to account for their
warmth. Should we not be particularly careful to keep clear of the faults we censure?--And
yet I am so angry both at my brother and sister, that I should not have taken this liberty
with my dear friend, notwithstanding I know you never loved them, had you not made so light
of so shocking a transaction where a brother's life was at stake: when his credit in the eye
of the mischievous sex has received a still deeper wound than he personally sustained; and
when a revival of the same wicked resentments (which may end more fatally) is threatened.

His credit, I say, in the eye of the mischievous sex: Who is not warranted to call it so; when
it is re (as the two libertines his companions gloried) to resolve never to give a challenge;
and among whom duelling is so fashionable a part of brutal bravery, that the man of temper,
who is, mostly, I believe, the truly brave man, is often at a loss so to behave as to avoid
incurring either a mortal guilt, or a general contempt?

To enlarge a little upon this subject, May we not infer, that those who would be guilty of
throwing these contempts upon a man of temper, who would rather pass by a verbal injury, than
to imbrue his hands in blood, know not the measure of true magnanimity? nor how much nobler
it is to forgive, and even how much more manly to despise, than to resent, an injury? Were
I a man, methinks, I should have too much scorn for a person, who could wilfully do me a mean
wrong, to put a value upon his life, equal to what I put upon my own. What an absurdity, because
a man had done me a small injury, that I should put it in his power (at least, to an equal
risque) to do me, and those who love me, an irreparable one!--Were it not a wilful injury,
nor avowed to be so, there could not be room for resentment.

How willingly would I run away from myself, and what most concerns myself, if I could! This
digression brings me back again to the occasion of it--and that to the impatience I was in,
when I ended my last letter, for my situation is not altered. I renew, therefore, my former
earnestness, as the new day approaches, and will bring with it perhaps new trials, that you
will (as undivestedly as possible of favour or resentment) tell me what you would have me do:--for,
if I am obliged to go to my uncle Antony's, all, I doubt, will be over with me. Yet how to
avoid it--that's the difficulty!

I shall deposit this the first thing.

What can I advise you to do, my noble creature? Your merit is your crime. You can no more change
your nature, than your persecutors can theirs. Your distress is owing to the vast disparity
between you and them. What would you have of them? Do they not act in character?--And to whom?
To an alien. You are not one of them. They have two dependencies in their hope to move you
to compliance.--Upon their impenetrableness one [I'd give it a more proper name, if I dared];
the other, on the regard you have always had for your character, [Have they not heretofore
owned as much?] and upon your apprehensions from that of Lovelace, which would discredit you,
should you take any step by his means to extricate yourself. Then they know, that resentment
and unpersuadableness are not natural to you; and that the anger they have wrought you up to,
will subside, as all extraordinaries soon do; and that once married, you will make the best of it.

But surely your father's son and eldest daughter have a view (by communicating to so narrow
a soul all they know of your just aversion to him) to entail unhappiness for life upon you,
were you to have the man who is already more nearly related to them, than ever he can be to
you, although the shocking compulsion should take place.

As to that wretch's perseverance, those only, who know not the man, will wonder at it. He has
not the least delicacy. His principal view in marriage is not to the mind. How shall those
beauties be valued, which cannot be comprehended? Were you to be his, and shew a visible want
of tenderness to him, it is my opinion, he would not be much concerned at it. I have heard
you well observe, from your Mrs. Norton, That a person who has any over-ruling passion, will
compound by giving up twenty secondary or under-satisfactions, though more laudable ones, in
order to have that gratified.

I'll give you the substance of a conversation [no fear you can be made to like him worse than
you do already] that passed between Sir Harry Downeton and this Solmes, but three days ago,
as Sir Harry told it but yesterday to my mother and me. It will confirm to you that what your
sister's insolent Betty reported he should say, of governing by fear, was not of her own head.

Sir Harry told her, he wondered he should wish to obtain you so much against you inclination
as every body knew it would be, if he did.

He matter'd not that, he said: coy maids made the fondest wives: [A sorry fellow!] It would
not at all grieve him to see a pretty woman make wry faces, if she gave him cause to vex her.
And your estate, by the convenience of its situation, would richly pay him for all he could
bear with your shyness.

He should be sure, he said, after a while, of your complaisance, if not of your love: and in
that should be happier than nine parts in ten of his married acquaintance.

What a wretch is this!

For the rest, your known virtue would be as great a security to him, as he could wish for.

She will look upon you, said Sir Harry, if she be forced to marry you, as Elizabeth of France
did upon Philip II. of Spain, when he received her on his frontiers as her husband, who was
to have been but her father-in-law: that is, with fear and terror, rather than with complaisance
and love: and you will perhaps be as surly to her, as that old monarch was to his young bride.

Fear and terror, the wretch, the horrid wretch! said, looked pretty in a bride as well as in
a wife: and, laughing, [yes, my dear, the hideous fellow laughed immoderately, as Sir Harry
told us, when he said it,] it should be his care to perpetuate the occasion for that fear,
if he could not think he had the love. And, truly, he was of opinion, that if LOVE and FEAR
must be separated in matrimony, the man who made himself feared, fared best.

If my eyes would carry with them the execution which the eyes of the basilisk are said to do,
I would make it my first business to see this creature.

My mother, however, says, it would be a prodigious merit in you, if you could get over your
aversion to him. Where, asks she [as you have been asked before], is the praise-worthiness
of obedience, if it be only paid in instance where we give up nothing?

What a fatality, that you have no better an option--either a Scylla or a Charybdis.

Were it not you, I should know how (barbarously as you are used) to advise you in a moment.
But such a noble character to suffer from a (supposed) rashness and indiscretion of such a
nature, would, as I have heretofore observed, be a wound to the sex.

While I was in hope, that the asserting of your own independence would have helped you, I was
pleased that you had one resource, as I thought. But now, that you have so well proved, that
such a step would not avail you, I am entirely at a loss what to say.

I will lay down my pen, and think.

*****

I have considered, and considered again; but, I protest, I know no more what to say now, than
before. Only this: That I am young, like yourself; and have a much weaker judgment, and stronger
passions, than you have.

I have heretofore said, that you have offered as much as you ought, in offering to live single.
If you were never to marry, the estate they are so loth should go out of their name, would,
in time, I suppose, revert to your brother: and he or his would have it, perhaps, much more
certainly this way, than by the precarious reversions which Solmes makes them hope for. Have
you put this into their odd heads, my dear?--The tyrant word AUTHORITY, as they use it, can
be the only objection against this offer.

One thing you must consider, that, if you leave your parents, your duty and love will not suffer
you to justify yourself by an appeal against them; and so you'll have the world against you.
And should Lovelace continue his wild life, and behave ungratefully to you, will not his baseness
seem to justify their cruel treatment of you, as well as their dislike of him?

May heaven direct you for the best!--I can only say, that for my own part, I would do any thing,
go any where, rather than be compelled to marry the man I hate; and (were he such a man as
Solmes) must always hate. Nor could I have borne what you have borne, if from father and uncles,
not from brother and sister.

My mother will have it, that after they have tried their utmost efforts to bring you into their
measures, and find them ineffectual, they will recede. But I cannot say I am of her mind. She
does not own, she has any authority for this, but her own conjecture. I should otherwise have
hoped, that your uncle Antony and she had been in on one secret, and that favourable to you.
Woe be to one of them at least [to you uncle to be sure I mean] if they should be in any other!

You must, if possible, avoid being carried to that uncle's. The man, the parson, your brother
and sister present!--They'll certainly there marry you to the wretch. Nor will your newly-raised
spirit support you in your resistance on such an occasion. Your meekness will return; and you
will have nothing for it but tears [tears despised by them all] and ineffectual appeals and
lamentations: and these tears when the ceremony is profaned, you must suddenly dry up; and
endeavour to dispose of yourself to such a humble frame of mind, as may induce your new-made
lord to forgive all your past declarations of aversion.

In short, my dear, you must then blandish him over with a confession, that all your past behaviour
was maidenly reserve only: and it will be your part to convince him of the truth of his imprudent
sarcasm, that the coyest maids make the fondest wives. Thus will you enter the state with a
high sense of obligation to his forgiving goodness: and if you will not be kept to it by that
fear, by which he proposes to govern, I am much mistaken.

Yet, after all, I must leave the point undetermined, and only to be determined, as you find
they recede from their avowed purpose, or resolve to remove you to your uncle Antony's. But
I must repeat my wishes, that something may fall out, that neither of these men may call you
his!--And may you live single, my dearest friend, till some man shall offer, that may be as
worthy of you, as man can be!

But yet, methinks, I would not, that you, who are so admirably qualified to adorn the married
state, should be always single. You know I am incapable of flattery; and that I always speak
and write the sincerest dictates of my heart. Nor can you, from what you must know of your
own merit (taken only in a comparative light with others) doubt my sincerity. For why should
a person who delight to find out and admire every thing that is praise-worthy in another, be
supposed ignorant of like perfections in herself, when she could not so much admire them in
another, if she had them not herself? And why may not I give her those praises, which she would
give to any other, who had but half of her excellencies?--Especially when she is incapable
of pride and vain-glory; and neither despises others for the want of her fine qualities, nor
overvalues herself upon them?--Over-values, did I say!--How can that be?

Forgive me, my beloved friend. My admiration of you (increased, as it is, by every letter you
write) will not always be held down in silence; although, in order to avoid offending you,
I generally endeavour to keep it from flowing to my pen, when I write to you, or to my lips,
whenever I have the happiness to be in your company.

I will add nothing (though I could add a hundred things on account of your latest communications)
but that I am

Your ever affectionate and faithful ANNA HOWE.

I hope I have pleased you with my dispatch. I wish I had been able to please you with my requested
advice.

You have given new beauties to the charming Ode which you have transmitted to me. What pity
that the wretches you have to deal with, put you out of your admirable course; in the pursuit
of which, like the sun, you was wont to cheer and illuminate all you shone upon!

How soothing a thing is praise from those we love!--Whether conscious or not of deserving it,
it cannot but give us great delight, to see ourselves stand high in the opinion of those whose
favour we are ambitious to cultivate. An ingenuous mind will make this farther use of it, that
if he be sensible that it does not already deserve the charming attributes, it will hasten
(before its friend finds herself mistaken) to obtain the graces it is complimented for: and
this it will do, as well in honour to itself, as to preserve its friend's opinion, and justify
her judgment. May this be always my aim!--And then you will not only give the praise, but the
merit; and I shall be more worthy of that friendship, which is the only pleasure I have to
boast of.

Most heartily I thank you for the kind dispatch of your last favour. How much am I indebted
to you! and even to your honest servant!--Under what obligations does my unhappy situation lay me!

But let me answer the kind contents of it, as well as I may.

As to getting over my disgusts to Mr. Solmes, it is impossible to be done; while he wants generosity,
frankness of heart, benevolence, manners and every qualification that distinguishes the worthy
man. O my dear! what a degree of patience, what a greatness of soul, is required in the wife,
not to despise a husband who is more ignorant, more illiterate, more low-minded than herself!--The
wretch, vested with prerogatives, who will claim rule in virtue of them (and not to permit
whose claim, will be as disgraceful to the prescribing wife as to the governed husband); How
shall such a husband as this be borne, were he, for reasons of convenience and interest, even
to be our CHOICE? But, to be compelled to have such a one, and that compulsion to arise from
motives as unworthy of the prescribers as of the prescribed, who can think of getting over
an aversion so justly founded? How much easier to bear the temporary persecutions I labour
under, because temporary, than to resolve to be such a man's for life? Were I to comply, must
I not leave my relations, and go to him? A month will decide the one, perhaps: But what a duration
of woe will the other be!--Every day, it is likely, rising to witness to some new breach of
an altar-vowed duty!

Then, my dear, the man seems already to be meditating vengeance against me for an aversion
I cannot help: for yesterday my saucy gaoleress assured me, that all my oppositions would not
signify that pinch of snuff, holding out her genteel finger and thumb: that I must have Mr.
Solmes: that therefore I had not best carry my jest too far; for that Mr. Solmes was a man
of spirit, and had told HER, that as I should surely be his, I acted very unpolitely; since,
if he had not more mercy [that was her word, I know not if it were his] than I had, I might
have cause to repent the usage I gave him to the last day of my life. But enough of this man;
who, by what you repeat from Sir Harry Downeton, has all the insolence of his sex, without
any one quality to make that insolence tolerable.

I have receive two letters from Mr. Lovelace, since his visit to you; which make three that
I have not answered. I doubt not his being very uneasy; but in his last he complains in high
terms of my silence; not in the still small voice, or rather style of an humble lover, but
in a style like that which would probably be used by a slighted protector. And his pride is
again touched, that like a thief, or eves-dropper, he is forced to dodge about in hopes of
a letter, and returns five miles (and then to an inconvenient lodging) without any.

His letters and the copy of mine to him, shall soon attend you. Till when, I will give you
the substance of what I wrote him yesterday.

I take him severely to task for his freedom in threatening me, through you, with a visit to
Mr. Solmes, or to my brother. I say, 'That, surely, I must be thought to be a creature fit
to bear any thing; that violence and menaces from some of my own family are not enough for
me to bear, in order to make me avoid him; but that I must have them from him too, if I oblige
those to whom it is both my inclination and duty to oblige in every thing that is reasonable,
and in my power.

'Very extraordinary, I tell him, that a violent spirit shall threaten to do a rash and unjustifiable
thing, which concerns me but a little, and himself a great deal, if I do not something as rash,
my character and sex considered, to divert him from it.

'I even hint, that, however it would affect me, were any mischief to happen on my own account,
yet there are persons, as far as I know, who in my case would not think there would be reason
for much regret, were such a committed rashness as he threatens Mr. Solmes with, to rid her
of two persons whom, had she never known, she had never been unhappy.'

This is plain-dealing, my dear: and I suppose he will put it into still plainer English for me.

I take his pride to task, on his disdaining to watch for my letters; and for his eves-dropping
language: and say, 'That, surely, he has the less reason to think so hardly of his situation;
since his faulty morals are the cause of all; and since faulty morals deservedly level all
distinction, and bring down rank and birth to the canaille, and to the necessity which he so
much regrets, of appearing (if I must descent to his language) as an eves-dropper and a thief.
And then I forbid him ever to expect another letter from me that is to subject him to such
disgraceful hardships.

'As to the solemn vows and protestations he is so ready, upon all occasions, to make, they
have the less weight with me, I tell him, as they give a kind of demonstration, that he himself,
from his own character, thinks there is reason to make them. Deeds are to me the only evidence
of intentions. And I am more and more convinced of the necessity of breaking off a correspondence
with a person, whose addresses I see it is impossible either to expect my friends to encourage,
or him to appear to wish that they should think him worthy of encouragement.

'What therefore I repeatedly desire is, That since his birth, alliances, and expectations,
are such as will at any time, if his immoral character be not an objection, procure him at
least equal advantages in a woman whose taste and inclinations moreover might be better adapted
to his own; I insist upon it, as well as advise it, that he give up all thoughts of me: and
the rather, as he has all along (by his threatening and unpolite behaviour to my friends, and
whenever he speaks of them) given me reason to conclude, that there is more malice in them,
than regard to me, in his perseverance.'

This is the substance of the letter I have written to him.

The man, to be sure, must have the penetration to observe, that my correspondence with him
hitherto is owing more to the severity I meet with, than to a very high value for him. And
so I would have him think. What a worse than moloch deity is that, which expects an offering
of reason, duty, and discretion, to be made to its shrine!

Your mother is of opinion, you say, that at last my friends will relent. Heaven grant that
they may!--But my brother and sister have such an influence over every body, and are so determined;
so pique themselves upon subduing me, and carrying their point; that I despair that they will.
And yet, if they do not, I frankly own, I would not scruple to throw myself upon any not disreputable
protection, by which I might avoid my present persecutions, on one hand, and not give Mr. Lovelace
advantage over me, on the other--that is to say, were there manifestly no other way left me:
for, if there were, I should think the leaving my father's house, without his consent, one
of the most inexcusable actions I could be guilty of, were the protection to be ever so unexceptionable;
and this notwithstanding the independent fortune willed me by my grandfather. And indeed I
have often reflected with a degree of indignation and disdain, upon the thoughts of what a
low, selfish creature that child must be, who is to be reined in only by the hopes of what
a parent can or will do for her.

But notwithstanding all this, I owe it to the sincerity of friendship to confess, that I know
not what I should have done, had your advice been conclusive any way. Had you, my dear, been
witness to my different emotions, as I read your letter, when, in one place, you advise me
of my danger, if I am carried to my uncle's; in another, when you own you could not bear what
I bear, and would do any thing rather than marry the man you hate; yet, in another, to represent
to me my reputation suffering in the world's eye; and the necessity I should be under to justify
my conduct, at the expense of my friends, were I to take a rash step; in another, insinuate
the dishonest figure I should be forced to make, in so compelled a matrimony; endeavouring
to cajole, fawn upon, and play the hypocrite with a man to whom I have an aversion; who would
have reason to believe me an hypocrite, as well from my former avowals, as from the sense he
must have (if common sense he has) of his own demerits; the necessity you think there would
be for me, the more averse (were I capable of so much dissimulation) that would be imputable
to disgraceful motives; as it would be too visible, that love, either of person or mind, could
be neither of them: then his undoubted, his even constitutional narrowness: his too probably
jealousy, and unforgiveness, bearing in my mind my declared aversion, and the unfeigned despights
I took all opportunities to do him, in order to discourage his address: a preference avowed
against him from the same motive; with the pride he professes to take in curbing and sinking
the spirits of a woman he had acquired a right to tyrannize over: had you, I say, been witness
of my different emotions as I read; now leaning this way, now that; now perplexed; now apprehensive;
now angry at one, then at another; now resolving; now doubting; you would have seen the power
you have over me; and would have had reason to believe, that, had you given your advice in
any determined or positive manner, I had been ready to have been concluded by it. So, my dear,
you will find, from these acknowledgements, that you must justify me to those laws of friendship,
which require undisguised frankness of heart; although you justification of me in that particular,
will perhaps be at the expense of my prudence.

But, upon the whole, this I do repeat--That nothing but the last extremity shall make me abandon
my father's house, if they will permit me to stay; and if I can, by any means, by any honest
pretences, but keep off my evil destiny in it till my cousin Morden arrives. As one of my trustees,
his is a protection, into which I may without discredit throw myself, if my other friends should
remain determined. And this (although they seem too well aware of it) is all my hope: for,
as to Lovelace, were I to be sure of his tenderness, and even of his reformation, must not
the thought of embracing the offered protection of his family, be the same thing, in the world's
eye, as accepting of his own?--Could I avoid receiving his visits at his own relations'? Must
I not be his, whatever, (on seeing him in a nearer light,) I should find him out to be? For
you know, it has always been my observation, that very few people in courtship see each other
as they are. Oh! my dear! how wise have I endeavoured to be! How anxious to choose, and to
avoid every thing, precautiously, as I may say, that might make me happy, or unhappy; yet all
my wisdom now, by a strange fatality, is likely to become foolishness!

Then you tell me, in your usual kindly-partial manner, what is expected of me, more than would
be of some others. This should be a lesson to me. What ever my motives were, the world would
not know them. To complain of a brother's unkindness, that, indeed, I might do. Differences
between brothers and sisters, where interests clash, but too commonly arise: but, where the
severe father cannot be separated from the faulty brother, who could bear to lighten herself,
by loading a father?--Then, in this particular case, must not the hatred Mr. Lovelace expresses
to every one of my family (although in return for their hatred of him) shock one extremely?
Must it not shew, that there is something implacable, as well as highly unpolite in his temper?--And
what creature can think of marrying so as to be out of all hopes ever to be well with her own
nearest and tenderest relations?

But here, having tired myself, and I dare say you, I will lay down my pen.

*****

Mr. Solmes is almost continually here: so is my aunt Hervey: so are my two uncles. Something
is working against me, I doubt. What an uneasy state is suspense!--When a naked sword, too,
seems hanging over one's head!

I hear nothing but what this confident creature Betty throws out in the wantonness of office.
Now it is, Why, Miss, don't you look up your things? You'll be called upon, depend upon it,
before you are aware. Another time she intimates darkly, and in broken sentences, (as if on
purpose to tease me,) what one says, what another; with their inquiries how I dispose of my
time? And my brother's insolent question comes frequently in, Whether I am not writing a history
of my sufferings?

But I am now used to her pertness: and as it is only through that that I can hear of any thing
intended against me, before it is to be put in execution; and as, when she is most impertinent,
she pleads a commission for it; I bear with her: yet, now-and-then, not without a little of
the heart-burn.

I will deposit thus far. Adieu, my dear. CL. HARLOWE.

Written on the cover, after she went down, with a pencil:

On coming down, I found your second letter of yesterday's date.* I have read it; and am in
hopes that the enclosed will in a great measure answer your mother's expectations of me.

     * See the next letter.

My most respectful acknowledgements to her for it, and for her very kind admonitions.

You'll read to her what you please of the enclosed.

LETTER XIV

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE SAT. MARCH 25.

I follow my last of this date by command. I mentioned in my former my mother's opinion of the
merit you would have, if you could oblige your friends against your own inclination. Our conference
upon this subject was introduced by the conversation we had had with Sir Harry Downeton; and
my mother thinks it of so much importance, that she enjoins me to give you the particulars
of it. I the rather comply, as I was unable in my last to tell what to advise you to; and as
you will in this recital have my mother's opinion at least, and, perhaps, in hers what the
world's would be, were it only to know what she knows, and not so much as I know.

My mother argues upon this case in a most discouraging manner for all such of our sex as look
forward for happiness in marriage with the man of their choice.

Only, that I know, she has a side-view of her daughter; who, at the same time that she now
prefers no one to another, values not the man her mother most regards, of one farthing; or
I should lay it more to heart.

What is there in it, says she, that all this bustle is about? Is it such a mighty matter for
a young woman to give up her inclinations to oblige her friends?

Very well, my mamma, thought I! Now, may you ask this--at FORTY, you may. But what would you
have said at EIGHTEEN, is the question?

Either, said she, the lady must be thought to have very violent inclinations [And what nice
young creature would have that supposed?] which she could not give up; or a very stubborn will,
which she would not; or, thirdly, have parents she was indifferent about obliging. So, generally,
we call another cause by consent--yet fall into the old one half a dozen times over, without
consent--quitting and resuming, with half-angry faces, forced into a smile, that there might
be some room to piece together again: but go a-bed, if bedtime, a little sullen nevertheless:
or, if we speak, her silence is broken with an Ah! Nancy! You are so lively! so quick! I wish
you were less like your papa, child!

I pay it off with thinking, that my mother has no reason to disclaim her share in her Nancy:
and if the matter go off with greater severity on her side than I wish for, then her favourite
Hickman fares the worse for it next day.

I know I am a saucy creature. I know, if I do not say so, you will think so. So no more of
this just now. What I mention it for, is to tell you, that on this serious occasion I will
omit, if I can, all that passed between us, that had an air of flippancy on my part, or quickness
on my mother's, to let you into the cool and cogent of the conversation.

'Look through the families, said she, which we both know, where the man and the woman have
been said to marry for love; which (at the time it is so called) is perhaps no more than a
passion begun in folly or thoughtlessness, and carried on from a spirit of perverseness and
opposition [here we had a parenthetical debate, which I omit]; and see, if they appear to be
happier than those whose principal inducement to marry has been convenience, or to oblige their
friends; or ever whether they are generally so happy: for convenience and duty, where observed,
will afford a permanent and even an increasing satisfaction (as well at the time, as upon the
reflection) which seldom fail to reward themselves: while love, if love be the motive, is an
idle passion' [idle in ONE SENSE my mother cannot say; for love is as busy as a monkey, and
as mischievous as a school-boy]--'it is a fervour, that, like all other fervours, lasts but
a little while after marriage; a bow overstrained, that soon returns to its natural bent.

'As it is founded generally upon mere notional excellencies, which were unknown to the persons
themselves till attributed to either by the other; one, two, or three months, usually sets
all right on both sides; and then with opened eyes they think of each other--just as every
body else thought of them before.

'The lovers imaginaries [her own notable word!] are by that time gone off; nature and old habits
(painfully dispensed with or concealed) return: disguises thrown aside, all the moles, freckles,
and defects in the minds of each discover themselves; and 'tis well if each do not sink in
the opinion of the other, as much below the common standard, as the blinded imagination of
both had set them above it. And now, said she, the fond pair, who knew no felicity out of each
other's company, are so far from finding the never-ending variety each had proposed in an unrestrained
conversation with the other (when they seldom were together; and always parted with something
to say; or, on recollection, when parted, wishing they had said); that they are continually
on the wing in pursuit of amusements out of themselves; and those, concluded my sage mamma,
[Did you think her wisdom so very modern?] will perhaps be the livelier to each, in which the
other has no share.'

I told my mother, that if you were to take any rash step, it would be owing to the indiscreet
violence of your friends. I was afraid, I said, that these reflection upon the conduct of people
in the married state, who might set out with better hopes, were but too well grounded: but
that this must be allowed me, that if children weighed not these matters so thoroughly as they
ought, neither did parents make those allowances for youth, inclination, and inexperience,
which had been found necessary to be made for themselves at their children's time of life.

I remembered a letter, I told her, hereupon, which you wrote a few months ago, personating
an anonymous elderly lady (in Mr. Wyerley's day of plaguing you) to Miss Drayton's mother,
who, by her severity and restraints, had like to have driven the young lady into the very fault
against which her mother was most solicitous to guard her. And I dared to say, she would be
pleased with it.

I fetched the first draught of it, which at my request you obliged me at the time; and read
the whole letter to my mother. But the following passage she made me read twice. I think you
once told me you had not a copy of this letter.

'Permit me, Madam, [says the personated grave writer,] to observe, That if persons of your
experience would have young people look forward, in order to be wiser and better by their advice,
it would be kind in them to look backward, and allow for their children's youth, and natural
vivacity; in other words, for their lively hopes, unabated by time, unaccompanied by reflection,
and unchecked by disappointment. Things appear to us all in a very different light at our entrance
upon a favourite party, or tour; when, with golden prospects, and high expectations, we rise
vigorous and fresh like the sun beginning its morning course; from what they do, when we sit
down at the end of our views, tired, and preparing for our journey homeward: for then we take
into our reflection, what we had left out in prospect, the fatigues, the checks, the hazards,
we had met with; and make a true estimate of pleasures, which from our raised expectations
must necessarily have fallen miserably short of what we had promised ourselves at setting out.
Nothing but experience can give us a strong and efficacious conviction of this difference:
and when we would inculcate the fruits of that upon the minds of those we love, who have not
lived long enough to find those fruits; and would hope, that our advice should have as much
force upon them, as experience has upon us; and which, perhaps, our parents' advice had not
upon ourselves, at our daughter' time of life; should we not proceed by patient reasoning and
gentleness, that we may not harden, where we would convince? For, Madam, the tenderest and
most generous minds, when harshly treated, become generally the most inflexible. If the young
lady knows her heart to be right, however defective her head may be for want of age and experience,
she will be apt to be very tenacious. And if she believes her friends to be wrong, although
perhaps they may be only so in their methods of treating her, how much will every unkind circumstance
on the parent's part, or heedless one on the child's, though ever so slight in itself, widen
the difference! The parent's prejudice in disfavour, will confirm the daughter's in favour,
of the same person; and the best reasonings in the world on either side, will be attributed
to that prejudice. In short, neither of them will be convinced: a perpetual opposition ensues:
the parent grows impatient; the child desperate: and, as a too natural consequence, that falls
out which the mother was most afraid of, and which possibly had not happened, if the child's
passions had been only led, not driven.'

My mother was pleased with the whole letter; and said, It deserved to have the success it met
with. But asked me what excuse could be offered for a young lady capable of making such reflections
(and who at her time of life could so well assume the character of one of riper years) if she
should rush into any fatal mistake herself?

She then touched upon the moral character of Mr. Lovelace; and how reasonable the aversion
of your reflections is to a man who gives himself the liberties he is said to take; and who
indeed himself denies not the accusation; having been heard to declare, that he will do all
the mischief he can to the sex, in revenge for the ill usage and broken vows of his first love,
at a time when he was too young [his own expression it seems] to be insincere.

I replied, that I had heard every one say, that the lady meant really used him ill; that it
affected him so much at the time, that he was forced to travel upon it; and to drive her out
of his heart, ran into courses which he had ingenuousness enough himself to condemn: that,
however, he had denied that he had thrown out such menaces against the sex when charged with
them by me in your presence; and declared himself incapable of so unjust and ungenerous a resentment
against all, for the perfidy of one.

You remember this, my dear, as I do your innocent observation upon it, that you could believe
his solemn asseveration and denial: 'For surely, said you, the man who would resent, as the
highest indignity that could be offered to a gentleman, the imputation of a wilful falsehood,
would not be guilty of one.'

I insisted upon the extraordinary circumstances in your case; particularizing them. I took
notice, that Mr. Lovelace's morals were at one time no objection with your relations for Arabella:
that then much was built upon his family, and more upon his part and learning, which made it
out of doubt, that he might be reclaimed by a woman of virtue and prudence: and [pray forgive
me for mentioning it] I ventured to add, that although your family might be good sort of folks,
as the world went, yet no body but you imputed to any of them a very punctilious concern for
religion or piety--therefore were they the less entitled to object to defect of that kind in
others. Then, what an odious man, said I, have they picked out, to supplant in a lady's affections
one of the finest figures of a man, and one noted for his brilliant parts, and other accomplishments,
whatever his morals may be!

Still my mother insisted, that there was the greater merit in your obedience on that account;
and urged, that there hardly ever was a very handsome and a very sprightly man who made a tender
and affectionate husband: for that they were generally such Narcissus's, as to imagine every
woman ought to think as highly of them, as they did of themselves.

There was no danger from that consideration here, I said, because the lady still had greater
advantages of person and mind, than the man; graceful and elegant, as he must be allowed to
be, beyond most of his sex.

She cannot endure to hear me praise any man but her favourite Hickman; upon whom, nevertheless,
she generally brings a degree of contempt which he would escape, did she not lessen the little
merit he has, by giving him, on all occasions, more than I think he can deserve, and entering
him into comparisons in which it is impossible but he must be a sufferer. And now [preposterous
partiality!] she thought for her part, that Mr. Hickman, bating that his face indeed was not
so smooth, nor his complexion quite so good, and saving that he was not so presuming and so
bold (which ought to be no fault with a modest woman) equaled Mr. Lovelace at any hour of the day.

To avoid entering further into such an incomparable comparison, I said, I did not believe,
had they left you to your own way, and treated you generously, that you would have had the
thought of encouraging any man whom they disliked--

Then, Nancy, catching me up, the excuse is less--for if so, must there not be more of contradiction,
than love, in the case?

Not so, neither, Madam: for I know Miss Clarissa Harlowe would prefer Mr. Lovelace to all men,
if morals--

IF, Nancy!--That if is every thing.--Do you really think she loves Mr. Lovelace?

What would you have had me say, my dear?--I won't tell you what I did say: But had I not said
what I did, who would have believed me?

Besides, I know you love him!--Excuse me, my dear: Yet, if you deny it, what do you but reflect
upon yourself, as if you thought you ought not to allow yourself in what you cannot help doing?

Indeed, Madam, said I, the man is worthy of any woman's love [if, again, I could say]--But
her parents--

Her parents, Nancy--[You know, my dear, how my mother, who accuses her daughter of quickness,
is evermore interrupting one!]

May take wrong measures, said I--

Cannot do wrong--they have reason, I'll warrant, said she--

By which they may provoke a young woman, said I, to do rash things, which otherwise she would
not do.

But, if it be a rash thing, [returned she,] should she do it? A prudent daughter will not wilfully
err, because her parents err, if they were to err: if she do, the world which blames the parents,
will not acquit the child. All that can be said, in extenuation of a daughter's error in this
case, arises from a kind consideration, which Miss Clary's letter to Lady Drayton pleads for,
to be paid to her daughter's youth and inexperience. And will such an admirable young person
as Miss Clarissa Harlowe, whose prudence, as we see, qualifies her to be an advisor of persons
much older than herself, take shelter under so poor a covert?

Let her know, Nancy, out of hand, what I say; and I charge you to represent farther to her,
That let he dislike one man and approve of another ever so much, it will be expected of a young
lady of her unbounded generosity and greatness of mind, that she should deny herself when she
can oblige all her family by so doing--no less than ten or a dozen perhaps the nearest and
dearest to her of all the persons in the world, an indulgent father and mother at the head
of them. It may be fancy only on her side; but parents look deeper: And will not Miss Clarissa
Harlowe give up her fancy to her parents' judgment?

I said a great deal upon this judgment subject: all that you could wish I should say; and all
that your extraordinary case allowed me to say. And my mother was so sensible of the force
of it, that she charged me not to write to you any part of my answer to what she said; but
only what she herself had advanced; lest, in so critical a case, it should induce you to take
measures which might give us both reason (me for giving it, you for following it) to repent
it as long as we lived.

And thus, my dear, have I set my mother's arguments before you. And the rather, as I cannot
myself tell what to advise you to do--you know best your own heart; and what that will let you do.

Robin undertakes to deposit this very early, that you may have an opportunity to receive it
by your first morning airing.

Heaven guide and direct you for the best, is the incessant prayer of

Your ever affectionate ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY AFTERNOON

I am in great apprehension. Yet cannot help repeating my humble thanks to your mother and you
for your last favour. I hope her kind end is answered by the contents of my last. Yet I must
not think it enough to acknowledge her goodness to me, with a pencil only, on the cover of
a letter sealed up. A few lines give me leave to write with regard to my anonymous letter to
Lady Drayton. If I did not at that time tell you, as I believe I did, that my excellent Mrs.
Norton gave me her assistance in that letter, I now acknowledge that she did.

Pray let your mother know this, for two reasons: one, that I may not be thought to arrogate
to myself a discretion which does not belong to me; the other, that I may not suffer by the
severe, but just inference she was pleased to draw; doubling my faults upon me, if I myself
should act unworthy of the advice I was supposed to give.

Before I come to what most nearly affects us all, I must chide you once more, for the severe,
the very severe things you mention of our family, to the disparagement of their MORALS. Indeed,
my dear, I wonder at you!--A slighter occasion might have passed me, after I had written to
you so often to so little purpose, on this topic. But, affecting as my own circumstances are,
I cannot pass by, without animadversion, the reflection I need not repeat in words.

There is not a worthier woman in England than my mother. Nor is my father that man you sometimes
make him. Excepting in one point, I know not any family which lives more up to their duty,
than the principals of ours. A little too uncommunicative for their great circumstances--that
is all.--Why, then, have they not reason to insist upon unexceptionable morals in a man whose
sought-for relationship to them, by a marriage in their family, they have certainly a right
either to allow of, or to disallow.

Another line or two, before I am engrossed by my own concerns--upon your treatment of Mr. Hickman.
Is it, do you think, generous to revenge upon an innocent person, the displeasure you receive
from another quarter, where, I doubt, you are a trespasser too?--But one thing I could tell
him; and you have best not provoke me to it: It is this, That no woman uses ill the man she
does not absolutely reject, but she has it in her heart to make him amends, when her tyranny
has had its run, and he has completed the measure of his services and patience. My mind is
not enough at ease to push this matter further.

I will now give you the occasion of my present apprehensions.

I had reason to fear, as I mentioned in mine of this morning, that a storm was brewing. Mr.
Solmes came home from church this afternoon with my brother. Soon after, Betty brought me up
a letter, without saying from whom. It was in a cover, and directed by a hand I never saw before;
as if it were supposed that I would not receive and open it, had I known from whom it came.

These are the contents:

*****

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE SUNDAY, MARCH 26.

DEAREST MADAM,

I think myself a most unhappy man, in that I have never yet been able to pay my respects to
you with youre consent, for one halfe-hour. I have something to communicat to you that concernes
you much, if you be pleased to admit me to youre speech. Youre honour is concerned in it, and
the honour of all youre familly. It relates to the designes of one whom you are sed to valew
more than he desarves; and to some of his reprobat actions; which I am reddie to give you convincing
proofes of the truth of. I may appear to be interested in it: but, neverthelesse, I am reddie
to make oathe, that every tittle is true: and you will see what a man you are sed to favour.
But I hope not so, for your owne honour.

Pray, Madam, vouchsafe me a hearing, as you valew your honour and familly: which will oblidge,
dearest Miss,

Your most humble and most faithful servant, ROGER SOLMES.

I wait below for the hope of admittance.

*****

I have no manner of doubt, that this is a poor device to get this man into my company. I would
have sent down a verbal answer; but Betty refused to carry any message, which should prohibit
his visiting me. So I was obliged either to see him, or to write to him. I wrote therefore
an answer, of which I shall send you the rough draught. And now my heart aches for what may
follow from it; for I hear a great hurry below.

*****

TO ROGER SOLMES, ESQ.

SIR,

Whatever you have to communicate to me, which concerns my honour, may as well be done by writing
as by word of mouth. If Mr. Lovelace is any of my concern, I know not that therefore he ought
to be yours: for the usage I receive on your account [I must think it so!] is so harsh, that
were there not such a man in the world as Mr. Lovelace, I would not wish to see Mr. Solmes,
no, not for one half-hour, in the way he is pleased to be desirous to see me. I never can be
in any danger from Mr. Lovelace, (and, of consequence, cannot be affected by any of your discoveries,)
if the proposal I made be accepted. You have been acquainted with it no doubt. If not, be pleased
to let my friends know, that if they will rid me of my apprehensions of one gentleman, I will
rid them of their of another: And then, of what consequence to them, or to me, will it be,
whether Mr. Lovelace be a good man, or a bad? And if not to them, nor to me, I see not how
it can be of any to you. But if you do, I have nothing to say to that; and it will be a christian
part if you will expostulate with him upon the errors you have discovered, and endeavour to
make him as good a man, as, no doubt, you are yourself, or you would not be so ready to detect
and expose him.

Excuse me, Sir: but, after my former letter to you, and your ungenerous perseverance; and after
this attempt to avail yourself at the expense of another man's character, rather than by your
own proper merit; I see not that you can blame any asperity in her, whom you have so largely
contributed to make unhappy.

CL. HARLOWE.

*****

SUNDAY NIGHT.

My father was for coming up to me, in great wrath, it seems; but was persuaded to the contrary.
My aunt Hervey was permitted to send me this that follow.--Quick work, my dear!

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

NIECE,

Every body is now convinced, that nothing is to be done with you by way of gentleness or persuasion.
Your mother will not permit you to stay in the house; for your father is so incensed by your
strange letter to his friend, that she knows not what will be the consequence if you do. So,
you are commanded to get ready to go to your uncle Antony's out of hand.

Your uncle thinks he has not deserved of you such an unwillingness as you shew to go to his house.

You don't know the wickedness of the man for whose sake you think it worth while to quarrel
with all your friends.

You must not answer me. There will be no end of that.

You know not the affliction you give to every body; but to none more than to

Your affectionate aunt, DOROTHY HERVEY.

*****

Forbid to write to my aunt, I took a bolder liberty. I wrote a few lines to my mother; beseeching
her to procure me leave to throw myself at my father's feet, and hers, if I must go, (nobody
else present,) to beg pardon for the trouble I had given them both, and their blessings; and
to receive their commands as to my removal, and the time for it, from their own lips.

'What new boldness this!--Take it back; and bid her learn to obey,' was my mother's angry answer,
with my letter returned, unopened.

But that I might omit nothing, that had an appearance of duty, I wrote a few lines to my father
himself, to the same purpose; begging, that he would not turn me out of his house, without
his blessing. But this, torn in two pieces, and unopened, was brought me up again by Betty,
with an air, one hand held up, the other extended, the torn letter in her open palm; and a
See here!--What a sad thing is this!--Nothing will do but duty, Miss!--Your papa said, Let
her tell me of deeds!--I'll receive no words from her. And so he tore the letter, and flung
the pieces at my head.

So desperate was my case, I was resolved not to stop even at this repulse. I took my pen, and
addressed myself to my uncle Harlowe, enclosing that which my mother had returned unopened,
and the torn unopened one sent to my father; having first hurried off a transcript for you.

My uncle was going home, and it was delivered to him just as he stepped into his chariot. What
may be the fate of it therefore I cannot know till to-morrow.

The following is a copy of it:

TO JOHN HARLOWE, ESQ.

MY DEAR AND EVER-HONOURED UNCLE,

I have nobody now but you, to whom I can apply, with hope, so much as to have my humble addresses
opened and read. My aunt Hervey has given me commands which I want to have explained; but she
has forbid me writing to her. Hereupon I took the liberty to write to my father and mother.
You will see, Sir, by the torn one, and by the other, (both unopened,) what has been the result.
This, Sir, perhaps you already know: but, as you know not the contents of the disgraced letters,
I beseech you to read them both, that you may be a witness for me, that they are not filled
with either complaints or expostulations, nor contain any thing undutiful. Give me leave to
say, Sir, that if deaf-eared anger will neither grant me a hearing, nor, what I write a perusal,
some time hence the hard-heartedness may be regretted. I beseech you, dear, good Sir, to let
me know what is meant by sending me to my uncle Antony's house, rather than to yours, or to
my aunt Hervey's, or else-where? If it be for what I apprehend it to be, life will not be supportable
upon the terms. I beg also to know, WHEN I am to be turned out of doors!--My heart strongly
gives me, that if once I am compelled to leave this house, I never shall see it more.

It becomes me, however, to declare, that I write not this through perverseness, or in resentment.
God knows my heart, I do not! But the treatment I apprehend I shall meet with, if carried to
my other uncle's, will, in all probability, give the finishing stroke to the distresses, the
undeserved distresses I will be bold to call them, of

Your once highly-favoured, but now unhappy, CL. HARLOWE.

This morning early my uncle Harlowe came hither. He sent up the enclosed very tender letter.
It has made me wish I could oblige him. You will see how Mr. Solmes's ill qualities are glossed
over in it. What blemishes dies affection hide!--But perhaps they may say to me, What faults
does antipathy bring to light!

Be pleased to send me back this letter of my uncle by the first return.

SUNDAY NIGHT, OR RATHER MINDAY MORNING.

I must answer you, though against my own resolution. Every body loves you; and you know they
do. The very ground you walk upon is dear to most of us. But how can we resolve to see you?
There is no standing against your looks and language. It is our loves makes us decline to see
you. How can we, when you are resolved not to do what we are resolved you shall do? I never,
for my part, loved any creature, as I loved you from your infancy till now. And indeed, as
I have often said, never was there a young creature so deserving of our love. But what is come
to you now! Alas! alas! my dear kinswoman, how you fail in the trial!

I have read the letters you enclosed. At a proper time, I may shew them to my brother and sister:
but they will receive nothing from you at present.

For my part, I could not read your letter to me, without being unmanned. How can you be so
unmoved yourself, yet so able to move every body else? How could you send such a letter to
Mr. Solmes? Fie upon you! How strangely are you altered!

Then to treat your brother and sister as you did, that they don't care to write to you, or
to see you! Don't you know where it is written, That soft answers turn away wrath? But if you
will trust to you sharp-pointed wit, you may wound. Yet a club will beat down a sword: And
how can you expect that they who are hurt by you will not hurt you again? Was this the way
you used to take to make us all adore you as we did?--No, it was your gentleness of heart and
manners, that made every body, even strangers, at first sight, treat you as a lady, and call
you a lady, though not born one, while your elder sister had no such distinctions paid her.
If you were envied, why should you sharpen envy, and file up its teeth to an edge?--You see
I write like an impartial man, and as one that loves you still.

But since you have displayed your talents, and spared nobody, and moved every body, without
being moved, you have but made us stand the closer and firmer together. This is what I likened
to an embattled phalanx, once before. Your aunt Hervey forbids your writing for the same reason
that I must not countenance it. We are all afraid to see you, because we know we shall be made
as so many fools. Nay, your mother is so afraid of you, that once or twice, when she thought
you were coming to force yourself into her presence, she shut the door, and locked herself
in, because she knew she must not see you upon your terms, and you are resolved you will not
see her upon hers.

Resolves but to oblige us all, my dearest Miss Clary, and you shall see how we will clasp you
every one by turns to our rejoicing hearts. If the one man has not the wit, and the parts,
and the person, of the other, no one breathing has a worse heart than that other: and is not
the love of all your friends, and a sober man (if he be not so polished) to be preferred to
a debauchee, though ever so fine a man to look at? You have such talents that you will be adored
by the one: but the other has as much advantage in those respects, as you have yourself, and
will not set by them one straw: for husbands are sometimes jealous of their authority with
witty wives. You will have in one, a man of virtue. Had you not been so rudely affronting to
him, he would have made your ears tingle with what he could have told you of the other.

Come, my dear niece, let me have the honour of doing with you what no body else yet has been
able to do. Your father, mother, and I, will divide the pleasure, and the honour, I will again
call it, between us; and all past offences shall be forgiven; and Mr. Solmes, we will engage,
shall take nothing amiss hereafter, of what has passed.

He knows, he says, what a jewel that man will have, who can obtain your favour; and he will
think light of all he has suffered, or shall suffer, in obtaining you.

Dear, sweet creature, oblige us: and oblige us with a grace. It must be done, whether with
a grace or not. I do assure you it must. You must not conquer father, mother, uncles, every
body: depend upon that.

I have set up half the night to write this. You do not know how I am touched at reading yours,
and writing this. Yet will I be at Harlowe-place early in the morning. So, upon reading this,
if you will oblige us all, send me word to come up to your apartment: and I will lead you down,
and present you to the embraces of every one: and you will then see, you have more of a brother
and sister in them both, than of late your prejudices will let you think you have. This from
one who used to love to style himself,

Your paternal uncle, JOHN HARLOWE.

*****

In about an hour after this kind letter was given me, my uncle sent up to know, if he should
be a welcome visiter, upon the terms mentioned in his letter? He bid Betty bring him down a
verbal answer: a written one, he said, would be a bad sign: and he bid her therefore not to
bring a letter. But I had just finished the enclosed transcription of one I had been writing.
She made a difficulty to carry it; but was prevailed upon to oblige me by a token which these
Mrs. Betty's cannot withstand.

DEAR AND HONOURED SIR,

How you rejoice me by your condescending goodness!--So kind, so paternal a letter!--so soothing
to a wounded heart; and of late what I have been so little used to!--How am I affected with
it! Tell me not, dear Sir, of my way of writing: your letter has more moved me, than I have
been able to move any body!--It has made me wish, with all my heart, that I could entitle myself
to be visited upon your own terms; and to be led down to my father and mother by so good and
so kind an uncle.

I will tell you, dearest Uncle, what I will do to make my peace. I have no doubt that Mr. Solmes,
upon consideration, would greatly prefer my sister to such a strange averse creature as me.
His chief, or one of his chief motives in his address to me, is, as I have reason to believe,
the contiguity of my grandfather's estate to his own. I will resign it; for ever I will resign
it: and the resignation must be good, because I will never marry at all. I will make it over
to my sister, and her heirs for ever. I shall have no heirs, but my brother and her; and I
will receive, as of my father's bounty, such an annuity (not in lieu of the estate, but as
of his bounty) as he shall be pleased to grant me, if it be ever so small: and whenever I disoblige
him, he to withdraw it, at his pleasure.

Will this not be accepted?--Surely it must--surely it will!--I beg of you, dearest Sir, to
propose it; and second it with your interest. This will answer every end. My sister has a high
opinion of Mr. Solmes. I never can have any in the light he is proposed to me. But as my sister's
husband, he will be always entitled to my respect; and shall have it.

If this be accepted, grant me, Sir, the honour of a visit; and do me then the inexpressible
pleasure of leading me down to the feet of my honoured parents, and they shall find me the
most dutiful of children; and to the arms of my brother and sister, and they shall find me
the most obliging and most affectionate of sisters.

I wait, Sir, for your answer to this proposal, made with the whole heart of

Your dutiful and most obliged niece, CL. HARLOWE.

MONDAY NOON.

I hope this will be accepted: for Betty tells me, that my uncle Antony and my aunt Hervey are
sent for; and not Mr. Solmes; which I look upon as a favourable circumstance. With what cheerfulness
will I assign over this envied estate!--What a much more valuable consideration shall I part
with it for!--The love and favour of all my relations! That love and favour, which I used for
eighteen years together to rejoice in, and be distinguished by!--And what a charming pretence
will this afford me of breaking with Mr. Lovelace! And how easily will it possibly make him
to part with me!

I found this morning, in the usual place, a letter from him, in answer, I suppose, to mine
of Friday, which I deposited not till Saturday. But I have not opened it; nor will I, till
I see what effect this new offer will have.

Let me but be permitted to avoid the man I hate; and I will give up with cheerfulness the man
I could prefer. To renounce the one, were I really to value him as much as you seem to imagine,
can give but a temporary concern, which time and discretion will alleviate. This is a sacrifice
which a child owes to parents and friends, if they insist upon its being made. But the other,
to marry a man one cannot endure, is not only a dishonest thing, as to the man; but it is enough
to make a creature who wishes to be a good wife, a bad or indifferent one, as I once wrote
to the man himself: and then she can hardly be either a good mistress, or a good friend; or
any thing but a discredit to her family, and a bad example to all around her.

Methinks I am loth, in the suspense I am in at present, to deposit this, because it will be
leaving you in one as great: but having been prevented by Betty's officiousness twice, I will
now go down to my little poultry; and, if I have an opportunity, will leave it in the usual
place, where I hope to find something from you.

LETTER XVII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 27.

I have deposited my narrative down to this day noon; but I hope soon to follow it with another
letter, that I may keep you as little a while as possible in that suspense which I am so much
affected by at this moment: for my heart is disturbed at ever foot I hear stir; and at every
door below that I hear open or shut.

They have been all assembled some time, and are in close debate I believe: But can there be
room for long debate upon a proposal, which, if accepted, will so effectually answer all their
views?--Can they insist a moment longer upon my having Mr. Solmes, when they see what sacrifices
I am ready to make, to be freed from his addresses?--Oh! but I suppose the struggle is, first,
with Bella's nicety, to persuade her to accept of the estate, and of the husband; and next,
with her pride, to take her sister's refusals, as she once phrased it!--Or, it may be, my brother
is insisting upon equivalents for his reversion in the estate: and these sort of things take
up but too much the attention of some of our family. To these, no doubt, one or both, it must
be owing, that my proposal admits of so much consideration.

I want, methinks, to see what Mr. Lovelace, in his letter, says. But I will deny myself this
piece of curiosity till that which is raised by my present suspense is answered.--Excuse me,
my dear, that I thus trouble you with my uncertainties: but I have no employment, nor heart,
if I had, to pursue any other but what my pen affords me.

MONDAY EVENING.

Would you believe it?--Betty, by anticipation, tells me, that I am to be refused. I am 'a vile,
artful creature. Every body is too good to me. My uncle Harlowe has been taken in, that's the
phrase. They know how it would be, if he either wrote to me, or saw me. He has, however, been
made ashamed to be so wrought upon. A pretty thing truly in the eye of the world it would be,
were they to take me at my word! It would look as if they had treated me thus hardly, as I
think it, for this very purpose. My peculiars, particularly Miss Howe, would give it that turn;
and I myself could mean nothing by it, but to see if it would be accepted in order to strengthen
my own arguments against Mr. Solmes. It was amazing, that it could admit of a moment's deliberation:
that any thing could be supposed to be done in it. It was equally against law and equity: and
a fine security Miss Bella would have, or Mr. Solmes, when I could resume it when I would!--My
brother and she my heirs! O the artful creature!--I to resolve to live single, when Lovelace
is so sure of me--and every where declares as much!--and can whenever he pleases, if my husband,
claim under the will!--Then the insolence--the confidence--[as Betty mincingly told me, that
one said; you may easily guess who] that she, who was so justly in disgrace for downright rebellion,
should pretend to prescribe to the whole family!--Should name a husband for her elder sister!--What
a triumph would her obstinacy go away with, to delegate her commands, not as from a prison,
as she called it, but as from her throne, to her elders and betters; and to her father and
mother too!--Amazing, perfectly amazing, that any body could argue upon such a proposal as
this! It was a master-stroke of finesse--It was ME in perfection!--Surely my uncle Harlowe
will never again be so taken in!'

All this was the readier told me, because it was against me, and would tease and vex me. But
as some of this fine recapitulation implied, that somebody spoke up for me. I was curious to
know who it was. But Betty would not tell me, for fear I should have the consolation to find
that all were not against me.

But do you not see, my dear, what a sad creature she is whom you honour with your friendship?--You
could not doubt your influence over me: Why did you not take the friendly liberty I have always
taken with you, and tell me my faults, and what a specious hypocrite I am? For, if my brother
and sister could make such discoveries, how is it possible, that faults to enormous [you could
see others, you thought, of a more secret nature!] could escape you penetrating eye?

Well, but now, it seems, they are debating how and by whom to answer me: for they know not,
nor are they to know, that Mrs. Betty has told me all these fine things. One desires to be
excused, it seems: another chooses not to have any thing to say to me: another has enough of
me: and of writing to so ready a scribbler, there will be no end.

Thus are those imputed qualifications, which used so lately to gain me applause, now become
my crimes: so much do disgust and anger alter the property of things.

The result of their debate, I suppose, will somehow or other be communicated to me by-and-by.
But let me tell you, my dear, that I am made so desperate, that I am afraid to open Mr. Lovelace's
letter, lest, in the humour I am in, I should do something (if I find it not exceptionable)
that may give me repentance as long as I live.

MONDAY NIGHT.

This moment the following letter is brought me by Betty.

MONDAY, 5 O'CLOCK

MISS CUNNING-ONE,

Your fine new proposal is thought unworthy of a particular answer. Your uncle Harlowe is ashamed
to be so taken in. Have you no new fetch for your uncle Antony? Go round with us, child, now
your hand's in. But I was bid to write only one line, that you might not complain, as you did
of your worthy sister, for the freedoms you provoked: It is this--Prepare yourself. To-morrow
you go to my uncle Antony's. That's all, child.

JAMES HARLOWE.

I was vexed to the heart at this: and immediately, in the warmth of resentment, wrote the enclosed
to my uncle Harlowe; who it seems stays here this night.

TO JOHN HARLOWE, ESQ. MONDAY NIGHT.

HONOURED SIR,

I find I am a very sad creature, and did not know it. I wrote not to my brother. To you, Sir,
I wrote. From you I hope the honour of an answer. No one reveres her uncle more than I do.
Nevertheless, between uncle and niece, excludes not such a hope: and I think I have not made
a proposal that deserves to be treated with scorn.

Forgive me, Sir--my heart is full. Perhaps one day you may think you have been prevailed upon
(for that is plainly the case!) to join to treat me--as I do not deserve to be treated. If
you are ashamed, as my brother hints, of having expressed any returning tenderness to me, God
help me! I see I have no mercy to expect from any body! But, Sir, from your pen let me have
an answer; I humbly implore it of you. Till my brother can recollect what belongs to a sister,
I will not take from him no answer to the letter I wrote to you, nor any commands whatever.

I move every body!--This, Sir, is what you are pleased to mention. But whom have I moved?--One
person in the family has more moving ways than I have, or he could never so undeservedly have
made every body ashamed to show tenderness to a poor distressed child of the same family.

Return me not this with contempt, or torn, or unanswered, I beseech you. My father has a title
to do that or any thing by his child: but from no other person in the world of your sex, Sir,
ought a young creature of mine (while she preserves a supplicating spirit) to be so treated.

When what I have before written in the humblest strain has met with such strange constructions,
I am afraid that this unguarded scrawl will be very ill received. But I beg, Sir, you will
oblige me with one line, be it ever so harsh, in answer to my proposal. I still think it ought
to be attended to. I will enter into the most solemn engagements to make it valid by a perpetual
single life. In a word, any thing I can do, I will do, to be restored to all your favours.
More I cannot say, but that I am, very undeservedly,

A most unhappy creature.

Betty scrupled again to carry this letter; and said, she should have anger; and I should have
it returned in scraps and bits.

I must take that chance, said I: I only desire that you will deliver it as directed.

Sad doings! very sad! she said, that young ladies should so violently set themselves against
their duty.

I told her, she should have the liberty to say what she pleased, so she would but be my messenger
that one time: and down she went with it.

I bid her, if she could, slide it into my uncle's hand, unseen; at least unseen by my brother
or sister, for fear it should meet, through their good office, with the fate she had bespoken
for it.

She would not undertake for that, she said.

I am now in expectation of the result. But having so little ground to hope for their favour
or mercy, I opened Mr. Lovelace's letter.

I would send it to you, my dear (as well as those I shall enclose) by this conveyance; but
not being able at present to determine in what manner I shall answer it, I will give myself
the trouble of abstracting it here, while I am waiting for what may offer from the letter just
carried down.

'He laments, as usual, my ill opinion of him, and readiness to believe every thing to his disadvantage.
He puts into plain English, as I supposed he would, my hint, that I might be happier, if, by
any rashness he might be guilty of to Solmes, he should come to an untimely end himself.'

He is concerned, he says, 'That the violence he had expressed on his extreme apprehensiveness
of losing me, should have made him guilty of any thing I had so much reason to resent.'

He owns, 'That he is passionate: all good-natured men, he says, are so; and a sincere man cannot
hide it.' But appeals to me, 'Whether, if any occasion in the world could excuse the rashness
of his expressions, it would not be his present dreadful situation, through my indifference,
and the malice of his enemies.'

He says, 'He has more reason than ever, from the contents of my last, to apprehend, that I
shall be prevailed upon by force, if not by fair means, to fall in with my brother's measures;
and sees but too plainly, that I am preparing him to expect it.

'Upon this presumption, he supplicates, with the utmost earnestness, that I will not give way
to the malice of his enemies.

'Solemn vows of reformation, and everlasting truth and obligingness, he makes; all in the style
of desponding humility: yet calls it a cruel turn upon him, to impute his protestations to
a consciousness of the necessity there is for making them from his bad character.

'He despises himself, he solemnly protests, for his past follies. He thanks God he has seen
his error; and nothing but my more particular instructions is wanting to perfect his reformation.

'He promises, that he will do every thing that I shall think he can do with honour, to bring
about a reconciliation with my father; and even will, if I insist upon it, make the first overtures
to my brother, and treat him as his own brother, because he is mine, if he will not by new
affronts revive the remembrance of the past.

'He begs, in the most earnest and humble manner, for one half-hour's interview; undertaking
by a key, which he owns he has to the garden-door, leading into the coppice, as we call it,
(if I will but unbolt the door,) to come into the garden at night, and wait till I have an
opportunity to come to him, that he may re-assure me of the truth of all he writes, and of
the affection, and, if needful, protection, of all his family.

'He presumes not, he says, to write by way of menace to me; but if I refuse him this favour,
he knows not (so desperate have some strokes in my letter made him) what his despair may make
him do.'

He asks me, 'Determined, as my friends are, and far as they have already gone, and declare
they will go, what can I propose to do, to avoid having Mr. Solmes, if I am carried to my uncle
Antony's; unless I resolve to accept of the protection he has offered to procure me; or except
I will escape to London, or elsewhere, while I can escape?'

He advises me, 'To sue to your mother, for her private reception of me; only till I can obtain
possession of my own estate, and procure my friends to be reconciled to me; which he is sure
they will be desirous to be, the moment I am out of their power.'

He apprizes me, [It is still my wonder, how he comes by this intelligence!] 'That my friends
have written to my cousin Morden to represent matters to him in their own partial way; nor
doubt they to influence him on their side of the question.

'That all this shews I have but one way; if none of my friends or intimates will receive me.

'If I will transport him with the honour of my choice of this one way, settlements shall be
drawn, with proper blanks, which I shall fill up as I pleased. Let him but have my commands
from my own mouth, all my doubts and scruples from my own lips; and only a repetition, that
I will not, on any consideration, be Solmes's wife; and he shall be easy. But, after such a
letter as I have written, nothing but an interview can make him so.' He beseeches me therefore,
'To unbolt the door, as that very night; or, if I receive not this time enough, this night;--and
he will, in a disguise that shall not give suspicion who he is, if he should be seen, come
to the garden door, in hopes to open it with his key; nor will he have any other lodging than
in the coppice both nights; watching every wakeful hour for the propitious unbolting, unless
he has a letter with my orders to the contrary, or to make some other appointment.'

This letter was dated yesterday: so he was there last night, I suppose; and will be there this
night; and I have not written a line to him: and now it is too late, were I determined what
to write.

I hope he will not go to Mr. Solmes.--I hope he will not come hither.--If he do either, I will
break with him for ever.

What have I to do with these headstrong spirits? I wish I had never--but what signifies wishing?--I
am strangely perplexed: but I need not have told you this, after such a representation of my
situation.

LETTER XVII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY MORNING, 7 O'CLOCK

My uncle has vouchsafed to answer me. These that follow are the contents of his letter; but
just now brought me, although written last night--late I suppose.

MONDAY NIGHT.

MISS CLARY,

Since you are grown such a bold challenger, and teach us all our duty, though you will not
practise your own, I must answer you. Nobody wants you estate from you. Are you, who refuse
ever body's advice, to prescribe a husband to your sister? Your letter to Mr. Solmes is inexcusable.
I blamed you for it before. Your parents will be obeyed. It is fit they should. Your mother
has nevertheless prevailed to have your going to your uncle Antony's put off till Thursday:
yet owns you deserve not that, or any other favour from her. I will receive no more of your
letters. You are too artful for me. You are an ungrateful and unreasonable child: Must you
have your way paramount to every body's? How are you altered.

Your displeased uncle, JOHN HARLOWE.

*****

To be carried away on Thursday--To the moated house--To the chapel--To Solmes! How can I think
of this!--They will make me desperate.

TUESDAY MORNING, 8 O'CLOCK.

I have another letter from Mr. Lovelace. I opened it with the expectation of its being filled
with bold and free complaints, on my not writing to prevent his two nights watching, in weather
not extremely agreeable. But, instead of complaints, he is 'full of tender concern lest I may
have been prevented by indisposition, or by the closer confinement which he has frequently
cautioned me that I may expect.'

He says, 'He had been in different disguises loitering about our garden and park wall, all
the day on Sunday last; and all Sunday night was wandering about the coppice, and near the
back door. It rained; and he has got a great cold, attended with feverishness, and so hoarse,
that he has almost lost his voice.'

Why did he not flame out in his letter?--Treated as I am treated by my friends, it is dangerous
to be laid under the sense of an obligation to an addresser's patience; especially when such
a one suffers in health for my sake.

'He had no shelter, he says, but under the great overgrown ivy, which spreads wildly round
the heads of two or three oaklings; and that was soon wet through.'

You remember the spot. You and I, my dear, once thought ourselves obliged to the natural shade
which those ivy-covered oaklings afforded us, in a sultry day.

I can't help saying, I am sorry he has suffered for my sake; but 'tis his own seeking.

His letter is dated last night at eight: 'And, indisposed as he is, he tells me that he will
watch till ten, in hopes of my giving him the meeting he so earnestly request. And after that,
he has a mile to walk to his horse and servant; and four miles then to ride to his inn.'

He owns, 'That he has an intelligencer in our family; who has failed him for a day or two past:
and not knowing how I do, or how I may be treated, his anxiety is increased.'

This circumstance gives me to guess who this intelligencer is: Joseph Leman: the very creature
employed and confided in, more than any other, by my brother.

This is not an honourable way of proceeding in Mr. Lovelace. Did he learn this infamous practice
of corrupting the servants of other families at the French court, where he resided a good while?

I have been often jealous of this Leman in my little airings and poultry-visits. Doubly obsequious
as he was always to me, I have thought him my brother's spy upon me; and although he obliged
me by his hastening out of the garden and poultry-yard, whenever I came into either, have wondered,
that from his reports my liberties of those kinds have not been abridged.* So, possibly, this
man may be bribed by both, yet betray both. Worthy views want not such obliquities as these
on either side. An honest mind must rise into indignation both at the traitor-maker and the
traitor.

     * Mr. Lovelace accounts for this, Vol. I, Letter XXXV.

'He presses with the utmost earnestness for an interview. He would not presume, he says, to
disobey my last personal commands, that he should not endeavour to attend me again in the wood-house.
But says, he can give me such reasons for my permitting him to wait upon my father or uncles,
as he hopes will be approved by me: for he cannot help observing, that it is no more suitable
to my own spirit than to his, that he, a man of fortune and family, should be obliged to pursue
such a clandestine address, as would only become a vile fortune-hunter. But, if I will give
my consent for his visiting me like a man, and a gentleman, no ill treatment shall provoke
him to forfeit his temper.

'Lord M. will accompany him, if I please: or Lady Betty Lawrance will first make the visit
to my mother, or to my aunt Hervey, or even to my uncles, if I choose it. And such terms shall
be offered, as shall have weight upon them.

'He begs, that I will not deny him making a visit to Mr. Solmes. By all that's good, he vows,
that it shall not be with the least intention either to hurt or affront him; but only to set
before him, calmly and rationally, the consequences that may possibly flow from so fruitless
a perseverance, as well as the ungenerous folly of it, to a mind as noble as mine. He repeats
his own resolution to attend my pleasure, and Mr. Morden's arrival and advice, for the reward
of his own patience.

'It is impossible, he says, but one of these methods must do. Presence, he observes, even of
a disliked person, takes off the edge of resentments which absence whets, and makes keen.

'He therefore most earnestly repeats his importunities for the supplicated interview.' He says,
'He has business of consequence in London: but cannot stir from the inconvenient spot where
he has for some time resided, in disguises unworthy of himself, until he can be absolutely
certain, that I shall not be prevailed upon, either by force or otherwise; and until he finds
me delivered from the insults of my brother. Nor ought this to be an indifferent point to one,
for whose sake all the world reports me to be used unworthily. But one remark, he says, he
cannot help making: that did my friends know the little favour I shew him, and the very great
distance I keep him at, they would have no reason to confine me on his account. And another,
that they themselves seem to think him entitled to a different usage, and expect that he receives
it; when, in truth, what he meets with from me is exactly what they wish him to meet with,
excepting in the favour of my correspondence I honour him with; upon which, he says, he puts
the highest value, and for the sake of which he has submitted to a thousand indignities.

'He renews his professions of reformation. He is convinced, he says, that he has already run
a long and dangerous course; and that it is high time to think of returning. It must be from
proper conviction, he says, that a person who has lived too gay a life, resolves to reclaim,
before age or sufferings come upon him.

'All generous spirits, he observes, hate compulsion. Upon this observation he dwells; but regrets,
that he is likely to owe all his hopes to this compulsion; this injudicious compulsion, he
justly calls it; and none to my esteem for him. Although he presumes upon some merit--in this
implicit regard to my will--in the bearing the daily indignities offered not only to him, but
to his relations, by my brother--in the nightly watchings, his present indisposition makes
him mention, or he had not debased the nobleness of his passion for me, by such a selfish instance.'

I cannot but say, I am sorry the man is not well.

I am afraid to ask you, my dear, what you would have done, thus situated. But what I have done,
I have done. In a word, I wrote, 'That I would, if possible, give him a meeting to-morrow night,
between the hours of nine and twelve, by the ivy summer-house, or in it, or near the great
cascade, at the bottom of the garden; and would unbolt the door, that he might come in by his
own key. But that, if I found the meeting impracticable, or should change my mind, I would
signify as much by another line; which he must wait for until it were dark.'

TUESDAY, ELEVEN O'CLOCK.

I am just returned from depositing my billet. How diligent is this man! It is plain he was
in waiting: for I had walked but a few paces, after I had deposited it, when, my heart misgiving
me, I returned, to have taken it back, in order to reconsider it as I walked, and whether I
should or should not let it go. But I found it gone.

In all probability, there was but a brick wall, of a few inches thick, between Mr. Lovelace
and me, at the very time I put the letter under the brick!

I am come back dissatisfied with myself. But I think, my dear, there can be no harm in meeting
him. If I do not, he may take some violent measures. What he knows of the treatment I meet
with in malice to him, and with the view to frustrate all his hopes, may make him desperate.
His behaviour last time I saw him, under the disadvantages of time and place, and surprised
as I was, gives me no apprehension of any thing but discovery. What he requires is not unreasonable,
and cannot affect my future choice and determination: it is only to assure him from my own
lips, that I never will be the wife of a man I hate. If I have not an opportunity to meet without
hazard or detection, he must once more bear the disappointment. All his trouble, and mine too,
is owing to his faulty character. This, although I hate tyranny and arrogance in all shapes,
makes me think less of the risques he runs, and the fatigues he undergoes, than otherwise I
should do; and still less, as my sufferings (derived from the same source) are greater than his.

Betty confirms this intimation, that I must go to my uncle's on Thursday. She was sent on purpose
to direct me to prepare myself for going, and to help me to get every thing up in order for
my removal.

LETTER XIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY, THREE O'CLOCK, MARCH 28.

I have mentioned several times the pertness of Mrs. Betty to me; and now, having a little time
upon my hands, I will give you a short dialogue that passed just now between us. It may, perhaps,
be a little relief to you from the dull subjects with which I am perpetually teasing you.

As she attended me at dinner, she took notice, That Nature is satisfied with a very little
nourishment: and thus she complimentally proved it--For, Miss, said she, you eat nothing; yet
never looked more charmingly in your life.

As to the former part of your speech, Betty, said I, you observe well; and I have often thought,
when I have seen how healthy the children of the labouring poor look, and are, with empty stomachs,
and hardly a good meal in a week, that God Almighty is very kind to his creatures, in this
respect, as well as in all others in making much not necessary to the support of life; when
three parts in four of His creatures, if it were, would not know how to obtain it. It puts
me in mind of two proverbial sentences which are full of admirable meaning.

What, pray, Miss, are they? I love to hear you talk, when you are so sedate as you seem now to be.

The one is to the purpose we are speaking of: Poverty is the mother of health. And let me tell
you, Betty, if I had a better appetite, and were to encourage it, with so little rest, and
so much distress and persecution, I don't think I should be able to preserve my reason.

There's no inconvenience but has its convenience, said Betty, giving me proverb for proverb.
But what is the other, Madam?

That the pleasures of the mighty are not obtained by the tears of the poor. It is but reasonable,
therefore, methinks, that the plenty of the one should be followed by distempers; and that
the indigence of the other should be attended with that health, which makes all its other discomforts
light on the comparison. And hence a third proverb, Betty, since you are an admirer of proverbs:
Better a hare-foot than none at all; that is to say, than not to be able to walk.

She was mightily taken with what I said: See, returned she, what a fine thing scholarship is!--I,
said she, had always, from a girl, a taste for reading, though it were but in Mother Goose,
and concerning the fairies [and then she took genteelly a pinch of snuff]: could but my parents
have let go as fast as I pulled, I should have been a very happy creature.

Very likely, you would have made great improvements, Betty: but as it is, I cannot say, but
since I had the favour of your attendance in this intimate manner, I have heard smarter things
from you, than I have heard at table from some of my brother's fellow-collegians.

Your servant, dear Miss; dropping me one of her best courtesies: so fine a judge as you are!--It
is enough to make one very proud. Then with another pinch--I cannot indeed but say, bridling
upon it, that I have heard famous scholars often and often say very silly things: things I
should be ashamed myself to say; but I thought they did it out of humility, and in condescension
to those who had not their learning.

That she might not be too proud, I told her, I would observe, that the liveliness or quickness
she so happily discovered in herself, was not so much an honour to her, as what she owed to
her sex; which, as I had observed in many instances, had great advantages over the other, in
all the powers that related to imagination. And hence, Mrs. Betty, you'll take notice, as I
have of late had opportunity to do, that your own talent at repartee and smartness, when it
has something to work upon, displays itself to more advantage, than could well be expected
from one whose friends, to speak in your own phrase, could not let go so fast as you pulled.

The wench gave me a proof of the truth of my observation, in a manner still more alert than
I had expected: If, said she, our sex had so much advantage in smartness, it is the less to
be wondered at, that you, Miss, who have had such an education, should outdo all the men and
women too, that come near you.

Bless me, Betty, said I, what a proof do you give me of your wit and your courage at the same
time! This is outdoing yourself. It would make young ladies less proud, and more apprehensive,
were they generally attended by such smart servants, and their mouths permitted to be unlocked
upon them as yours has been lately upon me.--But, take away, Mrs. Betty.

Why, Miss, you have eat nothing at all--I hope you are not displeased with your dinner for
any thing I have said.

No, Mrs. Betty, I am pretty well used to your freedoms now, you know.--I am not displeased
in the main, to observe, that, were the succession of modern fine ladies to be extinct, it
might be supplied from those whom they place in the next rank to themselves, their chamber-maids
and confidants. Your young mistress has contributed a great deal to this quickness of yours.
She always preferred your company to mine. As you pulled, she let go; and so, Mrs. Betty, you
have gained by her conversation what I have lost.

Why, Miss, if you come to that, nobody says better things than Miss Harlowe. I could tell you
one, if I pleased, upon my observing to her, that you lived of late upon the air, and had no
stomach to any thing; yet looked as charmingly as ever.

I dare say, it was a very good-natured one, Mrs. Betty! Do you then please that I shall hear it?

Only this, Miss, That your stomachfulness had swallowed up your stomach; and, That obstinacy
was meat, drink, and clothes to you.

Ay, Mrs. Betty; and did she say this?--I hope she laughed when she said it, as she does at
all her good things, as she calls them. It was very smart, and very witty. I wish my mind were
so much at ease, as to aim at being witty too. But if you admire such sententious sayings,
I'll help you to another; and that is, Encouragement and approbation make people show talents
they were never suspected to have; and this will do both for mistress and maid. And another
I'll furnish you with, the contrary of the former, that will do only for me: That persecution
and discouragement depress ingenuous minds, and blunt the edge of lively imaginations. And
hence may my sister's brilliancy and my stupidity be both accounted for. Ingenuous, you must
know, Mrs. Betty, and ingenious, are two things; and I would not arrogate the latter to myself.

Lord, Miss, said the foolish girl, you know a great deal for your years.--You are a very learned
young lady!--What pity--

None of your pitties, Mrs. Betty, I know what you'd say. But tell me, if you can, Is it resolved
that I shall be carried to my uncle Antony's on Thursday?

I was willing to reward myself for the patience she had made me exercise, by getting at what
intelligence I could from her.

Why, Miss, seating herself at a little distance (excuse my sitting down) with the snuff-box
tapped very smartly, the lid opened, and a pinch taken with a dainty finger and thumb, the
other three fingers distendedly bent, and with a fine flourish--I cannot but say, that it is
my opinion, you will certainly go on Thursday; and this noless foless, as I have heard my young
lady say in FRENCH.

Whether I am willing or not willing, you mean, I suppose, Mrs. Betty?

You have it, Miss.

Well but, Betty, I have no mind to be turned out of doors so suddenly. Do you think I could
not be permitted to tarry one week longer?

How can I tell, Miss?

O Mrs. Betty, you can tell a great deal, if you please. But here I am forbid writing to any
one of my family; none of it now will come near me; nor will any of it permit me to see them:
How shall I do to make known my request, to stay here a week or fortnight longer?

Why, Miss, I fancy, if you were to shew a compliable temper, your friends would shew a compliable
one too. But would you expect favours, and grant none?

Smartly put, Betty! But who knows what may be the result of my being carried to my uncle Antony's?

Who knows, Miss!--Why any body will guess what may be the result.

As how, Betty?

As how! repeated the pert wench, Why, Miss, you will stand in your own light, as you have hitherto
done: and your parents, as such good parents ought, will be obeyed.

If, Mrs. Betty, I had not been used to your oughts, and to have my duty laid down to me by
your oraculous wisdom I should be apt to stare at the liberty of you speech.

You seem angry, Miss. I hope I take no unbecoming liberty.

If thou really thinkest thou dost not, thy ignorance is more to be pitied, than thy pertness
resented. I wish thou wouldst leave me to myself.

When young ladies fall out with their own duty, it is not much to be wondered at, that they
are angry at any body who do theirs.

That's a very pretty saying, Mrs. Betty!--I see plainly what thy duty is in thy notion, and
am obliged to those who taught it thee.

Every body takes notice, Miss, that you can say very cutting words in a cool manner, and yet
not call names, as I have known some gentlefolks as well as others do when in a passion. But
I wish you had permitted 'Squire Solmes to see you: he would have told you such stories of
'Squire Lovelace, as you would have turned your heart against him for ever.

And know you any of the particulars of those sad stories?

Indeed I don't; but you'll hear all at your uncle Antony's, I suppose; and a great deal more
perhaps than you will like to hear.

Let me hear what I will, I am determined against Mr. Solmes, were it to cost me my life.

If you are, Miss, the Lord have mercy on you! For what with this letter of yours to 'Squire
Solmes, whom they so much value, and what with their antipathy to 'Squire Lovelace, whom they
hate, they will have no patience with you.

What will they do, Betty? They won't kill me? What will they do?

Kill you! No!--But you will not be suffered to stir from thence, till you have complied with
your duty. And no pen and ink will be allowed you as here; where they are of opinion you make
no good use of it: nor would it be allowed here, only as they intend so soon to send you away
to your uncle's. No-body will be permitted to see you, or to correspond with you. What farther
will be done, I can't say; and, if I could, it may not be proper. But you may prevent all,
by one word: and I wish you would, Miss. All then would be easy and happy. And, if I may speak
my mind, I see not why one man is not as good as another: why, especially, a sober man is not
as good as a rake.

Well, Betty, said I, sighing, all thy impertinence goes for nothing. But I see I am destined
to be a very unhappy creature. Yet I will venture upon one request more to them.

And so, quite sick of the pert creature and of myself, I retired to my closet, and wrote a
few lines to my uncle Harlowe, notwithstanding his prohibition; in order to get a reprieve
from being carried away so soon as Thursday next, if I must go. And this, that I might, if
complied with, suspend the appointment I have made with Mr. Lovelace; for my heart misgives
me as to meeting him; and that more and more; I know not why. Under the superscription of the
letter, I wrote these words: 'Pray, dear Sir, be pleased to give this a reading.'

This is a copy of what I wrote:

TUESDAY AFTERNOON.

HONOURED SIR,

Let me this once be heard with patience, and have my petition granted. It is only, that I may
not be hurried away so soon as next Thursday.

Why should the poor girl be turned out of doors so suddenly, so disgracefully? Procure for
me, Sir, one fortnight's respite. In that space of time, I hope you will all relent. My mamma
shall not need to shut her door in apprehension of seeing her disgraceful child. I will not
presume to think of entering her presence, or my papa's without leave. One fortnight's respite
is but a small favour for them to grant, except I am to be refused every thing I ask; but it
is of the highest import to my peace of mind. Procure it for me, therefore, dearest Sir; and
you will exceedingly oblige

Your dutiful, though greatly afflicted niece, CL. HARLOWE.

I sent this down: my uncle was not gone: and he now stays to know the result of the question
put to me in the enclosed answer which he has given to mind.

Your going to your uncle's was absolutely concluded upon for next Thursday. Nevertheless, your
mother, seconded by Mr. Solmes, pleaded so strongly to have you indulged, that your request
for a delay will be complied with, upon one condition; and whether for a fortnight, or a shorter
time, that will depend upon yourself. If you refuse the condition, your mother declares she
will give over all further intercession for you.--Nor do you deserve this favour, as you put
it upon our yielding to you, not you to us.

This condition is, that you admit of a visit from Mr. Solmes, for one hour, in company of your
brother, your sister, or your uncle Antony, choose who you will.

If you comply not, go next Thursday to a house which is become strangely odious to you of late,
whether you get ready to go or not. Answer therefore directly to the point. No evasion. Name
your day and hour. Mr. Solmes will neither eat you, nor drink you. Let us see, whether we are
to be complied with in any thing, or not.

JOHN HARLOWE.

*****

After a very little deliberation, I resolved to comply with this condition. All I fear is,
that Mr. Lovelace's intelligencer may inform him of it; and that his apprehensions upon it
may make him take some desperate resolution: especially as now (having more time given me here)
I think to write to him to suspend the interview he is possibly so sure of. I sent down the
following to my uncle:

HONOURED SIR,

Although I see not what end the proposed condition can answer, I comply with it. I wish I could
with every thing expected of me. If I must name one, in whose company I am to see the gentleman,
and that one not my mamma, whose presence I could wish to be honoured by on the occasion, let
my uncle, if he pleases, be the person. If I must name the day, (a long day, I doubt, will
not be permitted me,) let it be next Tuesday.

The hour, four in the afternoon. The place either the ivy summer-house, or in the little parlour
I used to be permitted to call mine.

Be pleased, Sir, nevertheless, to prevail upon my mamma, to vouchsafe me her presence on the
occasion.

I am, Sir, your ever-dutiful CL. HARLOWE.

A reply is just sent me. I thought it became my averseness to this meeting, to name a distant
day: but I did not expect they would have complied with it. So here is one week gained!

This is the reply:

You have done well to comply. We are willing to think the best of every slight instance of
duty from you. Yet have you seemed to consider the day as an evil day, and so put if far off.
This nevertheless is granted you, as no time need to be lost, if you are as generous after
the day, as we are condescending before it. Let me advise you, not to harden your mind; nor
take up your resolution beforehand. Mr. Solmes has more awe, and even terror, at the thought
of seeing you, than you can have at the thoughts of seeing him. His motive is love; let not
yours be hatred. My brother Antony will be present, in hopes you will deserve well of him,
by behaving well to the friend of the family. See you use him as such. Your mother had permission
to be there, if she thought fit: but says, she would not for a thousand pound, unless you would
encourage her beforehand as she wishes to be encouraged. One hint I am to give you mean time.
It is this: To make a discreet use of your pen and ink. Methinks a young creature of niceness
should be less ready to write to one man, when she is designed to be another's.

This compliance, I hope, will produce greater, and then the peace of the family will be restored:
which is what is heartily wished by

Your loving uncle, JOHN HARLOWE.

Unless it be to the purpose our hearts are set upon, you need not write again.

*****

This man have more terror at seeing me, than I can have at seeing him!--How can that be? If
he had half as much, he would not wish to see me!--His motive love!--Yes, indeed! Love of himself!
He knows no other; for love, that deserves the name, seeks the satisfaction of the beloved
object more than its own. Weighed in this scale, what a profanation is this man guilty of!

Not to take up my resolution beforehand!--That advice comes too late.

But I must make a discreet use of my pen. That, I doubt, as they have managed it, in the sense
they mean it, is as much out of my power, as the other.

But write to one man, when I am designed for another!--What a shocking expression is that!

Repenting of my appointment with Mr. Lovelace before I had this favour granted me, you may
believe I hesitated not a moment to revoke it now that I had gained such a respite. Accordingly,
I wrote, 'That I found it inconvenient to meet him, as I had intended: that the risque I should
run of a discovery, and the mischiefs that might flow from it, could not be justified by any
end that such a meeting could answer: that I found one certain servant more in my way, when
I took my morning and evening airings, than any other: that the person who might reveal the
secrets of a family to him, might, if opportunity were given him, betray me, or him, to those
whom it was his duty to serve: that I had not been used to a conduct so faulty, as to lay myself
at the mercy of servants: and was sorry he had measures to pursue, that made steps necessary
in his own opinion, which, in mine, were very culpable, and which no end could justify: that
things drawing towards a crisis between my friends and me, an interview could avail nothing;
especially as the method by which this correspondence was carried on was not suspected, and
he could write all that was in his mind to write: that I expected to be at liberty to judge
of what was proper and fit upon this occasion: especially as he might be assured, that I would
sooner choose death, than Mr. Solmes.'

TUESDAY NIGHT.

I have deposited my letter to Mr. Lovelace. Threatening as things look against me, I am much
better pleased with myself for declining the interview than I was before. I suppose he will
be a little out of humour upon it, however: but as I reserved to myself the liberty of changing
my mind; and as it is easy for him to imagine there may be reasons for it within-doors, which
he cannot judge of without; besides those I have suggested, which of themselves are of sufficient
weight to engage his acquiescence; I should think it strange, if he acquiesces not on this
occasion, and that with a cheerfulness, which may shew me, that his last letter is written
from his heart: For, if he be really so much concerned at his past faults, as he pretends,
and has for some time pretended, must he not, of course, have corrected, in some degree, the
impetuosity of his temper? The first step to reformation, as I conceive, is to subdue sudden
gusts of passion, from which frequently the greatest evils arise, and to learn to bear disappointments.
If the irascible passions cannot be overcome, what opinion can we have of the person's power
over those to which bad habit, joined to greater temptation, gives stronger force?

Pray, my dear, be so kind as to make inquiry, by some safe hand, after the disguises Mr. Lovelace
assumes at the inn he puts up at in the poor village of Neale, he calls it. If it be the same
I take it to be, I never knew it was considerable enough to have a name; nor that it has an
inn in it.

As he must, to be so constantly near us, be much there, I would be glad to have some account
of his behaviour; and what the people think of him. In such a length of time, he must by his
conduct either give scandal, or hope of reformation. Pray, my dear, humour me in this inquiry.
I have reason for it, which you shall be acquainted with another time, if the result of the
inquiry discover them not.

LETTER XX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE WEDNESDAY MORNING, NINE O'CLOCK.

I am just returned from my morning walk, and already have received a letter from Mr. Lovelace
in answer to mine deposited last night. He must have had pen, ink, and paper with him; for
it was written in the coppice; with this circumstance: On one knee, kneeling with the other.
Not from reverence to the written to, however, as you'll find!

Well we are instructed early to keep these men at distance. An undesigning open heart, where
it is loth to disoblige, is easily drawn in, I see, to oblige more than ever it designed. It
is too apt to govern itself by what a bold spirit is encouraged to expect of it. It is very
difficult for a good-natured young person to give a negative where it disesteems not.

Our hearts may harden and contract, as we gain experience, and when we have smarted perhaps
for our easy folly: and so they ought, or we should be upon very unequal terms with the world.

Excuse these grave reflections. This man has vexed me heartily. I see his gentleness was art:
fierceness, and a temper like what I have been too much used to at home, are Nature in him.
Nothing, I think, shall ever make me forgive him; for, surely, there can be no good reason
for his impatience on an expectation given with reserve, and revocable.--I so much to suffer
through him; yet, to be treated as if I were obliged to bear insults from him--!

But here you will be pleased to read his letter; which I shall enclose.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

GOOD GOD!

What is now to become of me!--How shall I support this disappointment!--No new cause!--On one
knee, kneeling with the other, I write!--My feet benumbed with midnight wanderings through
the heaviest dews that ever fell: my wig and my linen dripping with the hoar frost dissolving
on them!--Day but just breaking--Sun not risen to exhale--May it never rise again!--Unless
it bring healing and comfort to a benighted soul! In proportion to the joy you had inspired
(ever lovely promiser!) in such proportion is my anguish!

O my beloved creature!--But are not your very excuses confessions of excuses inexcusable? I
know not what I write!--That servant in your way!* By the great God of Heaven, that servant
was not, dared not, could not, be in your way!--Curse upon the cool caution that is pleased
to deprive me of an expectation so transporting!

     * See Letter XIX.

And are things drawing towards a crisis between your friends and you?--Is not this a reason
for me to expect, the rather to expect, the promised interview?

CAN I write all that is in my mind, say you?--Impossible!--Not the hundredth part of what is
in my mind, and in my apprehension, can I write!

Oh! the wavering, the changeable sex!--But can Miss Clarissa Harlowe--

Forgive me, Madam!--I know not what I write!

Yet, I must, I do, insist upon your promise--or that you will condescend to find better excuses
for the failure--or convince me, that stronger reasons are imposed upon you, than those you
offer.--A promise once given (upon deliberation given,) the promised only can dispense with;
except in cases of a very apparent necessity imposed upon the promiser, which leaves no power
to perform it.

The first promise you ever made me! Life and death perhaps depending upon it--my heart desponding
from the barbarous methods resolved to be taken with you in malice to me!

You would sooner choose death than Solmes. (How my soul spurns the competition!) O my beloved
creature, what are these but words?--Whose words?--Sweet and ever adorable--What?--Promise
breaker--must I call you?--How shall I believe the asseveration, (your supposed duty in the
question! Persecution so flaming!--Hatred to me so strongly avowed!) after this instance of
you so lightly dispensing with your promise?

If, my dearest life! you would prevent my distraction, or, at least, distracted consequences,
renew the promised hope!--My fate is indeed upon its crisis.

Forgive me, dearest creature, forgive me!--I know I have written in too much anguish of mind!--Writing
this, in the same moment that the just dawning light has imparted to me the heavy disappointment.

I dare not re-peruse what I have written. I must deposit it. It may serve to shew you my distracted
apprehension that this disappointment is but a prelude to the greatest of all.--Nor, having
here any other paper, am I able to write again, if I would, on this gloomy spot. (Gloomy is
my soul; and all Nature around me partakes of my gloom!)--I trust it therefore to your goodness--if
its fervour excite your displeasure rather than your pity, you wrong my passion; and I shall
be ready to apprehend, that I am intended to be the sacrifice of more miscreants than one!
[Have patience with me, dearest creature!--I mean Solmes and your brother only.] But if, exerting
your usual generosity, you will excuse and re appoint, may that God, whom you profess to serve,
and who is the God of truth and of promises, protect and bless you, for both; and for restoring
to himself, and to hope,

Your ever-adoring, yet almost desponding, LOVELACE!

Ivy Cavern, in the Coppice--Day but just breaking.

*****

This is the answer I shall return:

WEDNESDAY MORNING.

I am amazed, Sir, at the freedom of your reproaches. Pressed and teased, against convenience
and inclination, to give you a private meeting, am I to be thus challenged and upbraided, and
my sex reflected upon, because I thought it prudent to change my mind?--A liberty I had reserved
to myself, when I made the appointment, as you call it. I wanted not instances of your impatient
spirit to other people: yet may it be happy for me, that I can have this new one; which shows,
that you can as little spare me, when I pursue the dictates of my own reason, as you do others,
for acting up to theirs. Two motives you must be governed by in this excess. The one my easiness;
the other your own presumption. Since you think you have found out the first, and have shown
so much of the last upon it, I am too much alarmed, not to wish and desire, that your letter
of this day may conclude all the trouble you had from, or for,

Your humble servant, CL. HARLOWE.

*****

I believe, my dear, I may promise myself your approbation, whenever I write or speak with spirit,
be it to whom it will. Indeed, I find but too much reason to exert it, since I have to deal
with people, who govern themselves in their conduct to me, not by what is fit or decent, right
or wrong, but by what they think my temper will bear. I have, till very lately, been praised
for mine; but it has always been by those who never gave me opportunity to return the compliment
to them. Some people have acted, as if they thought forbearance on one side absolutely necessary
for them and me to be upon good terms together; and in this case have ever taken care rather
to owe that obligation than to lay it. You have hinted to me, that resentment is not natural
to my temper, and that therefore it must soon subside: it may be so with respect to my relations;
but not to Mr. Lovelace, I assure you.

WEDNESDAY NOON, MARCH 29.

We cannot always answer for what we can do: but to convince you, that I can keep my above resolution,
with regard to Mr. Lovelace, angry as my letter is, and three hours since it was written, I
assure you, that I repent it not; nor will soften it, although I find it is not taken away.
And yet I hardly ever before did any thing in anger, that I did not repent in half an hour;
and question myself in less that that time, whether I was right or wrong.

In this respite till Tuesday, I have a little time to look about me, as I may say, and to consider
of what I have to do, and can do. And Mr. Lovelace's insolence will make me go very home with
myself. Not that I think I can conquer my aversion to Mr. Solmes. I am sure I cannot. But,
if I absolutely break with Mr. Lovelace, and give my friends convincing proofs of it, who knows
but they will restore me to their favour, and let their views in relation to the other man
go off by degrees?--Or, at least, that I may be safe till my cousin Morden arrives: to whom,
I think, I will write; and the rather, as Mr. Lovelace has assured me, that my friends have
written to him to make good their side of the question.

But, with all my courage, I am exceedingly apprehensive about the Tuesday next, and about what
may result from my steadfastness; for steadfast I am sure I shall be. They are resolved, I
am told, to try every means to induce me to comply with what they are determined upon. And
I am resolved to do all I can to avoid what they would force me to do. A dreadful contention
between parents and child!--Each hoping to leave the other without excuse, whatever the consequence
may be.

What can I do? Advise me, my dear. Something is strangely wrong somewhere! to make parents,
the most indulgent till now, seem cruel in a child's eye; and a daughter, till within these
few weeks, thought unexceptionably dutiful, appear, in their judgment, a rebel!--Oh! my ambitious
and violent brother! What may he have to answer for to both!

Be pleased to remember, my dear, that your last favour was dated on Saturday. This is Wednesday:
and none of mine have been taken away since. Don't let me want you advice. My situation is
extremely difficult.--But I am sure you love me still: and not the less on that account. Adieu,
my beloved friend.

CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XXI

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE THURSDAY MORNING, DAY-BREAK, MARCH 30.

An accident, and not remissness, has occasioned my silence.

My mother was sent for on Sunday night by her cousin Larkin, whom I mentioned in one of my
former, and who was extremely earnest to see her.

This poor woman was always afraid of death, and was one of those weak persons who imagine that
the making of their will must be an undoubted forerunner of it.

She had always said, when urged to the necessary work, That whenever she made it, she should
not live long after; and, one would think, imagined she was under an obligation to prove her
words: for, though she had been long bed-rid, and was, in a manner, worn out before, yet she
thought herself better, till she was persuaded to make it: and from that moment, remembering
what she used to prognosticate, (her fears, helping on what she feared, as is often the case,
particularly in the small-pox,) grew worse; and had it in her head once to burn her will, in
hopes to grow better upon it.

She sent my mother word, that the doctors had given her over: but that she could not die till
she saw her. I told my mother, That if she wished her a chance for recovery, she should not,
for that reason, go. But go she would; and, what was worse, would make me go with her; and
that, at an hour's warning; for she said nothing of it to me, till she was rising in the morning
early, resolving to return again at night. Had there been more time for argumentation, to be
sure I had not gone; but as it was, there was a kind of necessity that my preparation to obey
her, should, in a manner, accompany her command.--A command so much out of the way, on such
a solemn occasion! And this I represented: but to no purpose: There never was such a contradicting
girl in the world--My wisdom always made her a fool!--But she would be obliged this time, proper
or improper.

I have but one way of accounting for this sudden whim of my mother; and that is this--She had
a mind to accept of Mr. Hickman's offer to escort her:--and I verily believe [I wish I were
quite sure of it] had a mind to oblige him with my company--as far as I know, to keep me out
of worse.

For, would you believe it?--as sure as you are alive, she is afraid for her favourite Hickman,
because of the long visit your Lovelace, though so much by accident, made me in her absence,
last time she was at the same place. I hope, my dear, you are not jealous too. But indeed I
now-and-then, when she teases me with praises which Hickman cannot deserve, in return fall
to praising those qualities and personalities in Lovelace, which the other never will have.
Indeed I do love to tease a little bit, that I do.--My mamma's girl--I had like to have said.

As you know she is as passionate, as I am pert, you will not wonder to be told, that we generally
fall out on these occasions. She flies from me, at the long run. It would be undutiful in me
to leave her first--and then I get an opportunity to pursue our correspondence.

For, now I am rambling, let me tell you, that she does not much favour that;--for two reasons,
I believe:--One, that I don't shew her all that passes between us; the other, that she thinks
I harden your mind against your duty, as it is called. And with her, for a reason at home,
as I have hinted more than once, parents cannot do wrong; children cannot oppose, and be right.
This obliges me now-and-then to steal an hour, as I may say, and not let her know how I am
employed.

You may guess from what I have written, how averse I was to comply with such an unreasonable
stretch of motherly authority. But it came to be a test of duty; so I was obliged to yield,
though with a full persuasion of being in the right.

I have always your reproofs upon these occasions: in your late letters stronger than ever.
A good reason why, you'll say, because more deserved than ever. I thank you kindly for your
correction. I hope to make correction of it. But let me tell you, that your stripes, whether
deserved or not, have made me sensible, deeper than the skin--but of this another time.

It was Monday afternoon before we reached the old lady's house. That fiddling, parading fellow
[you know who I mean] made us wait for him two hours, and I to go to a journey I disliked!
only for the sake of having a little more tawdry upon his housings; which he had hurried his
sadler to put on, to make him look fine, being to escort his dear Madam Howe, and her fair
daughter. I told him, that I supposed he was afraid, that the double solemnity in the case
(that of the visit to a dying woman, and that of his own countenance) would give him the appearance
of an undertaker; to avoid which, he ran into as bad an extreme, and I doubted would be taken
for a mountebank.

The man was confounded. He took it as strongly, as if his conscience gave assent to the justice
of the remark: otherwise he would have borne it better; for he is used enough to this sort
of treatment. I thought he would have cried. I have heretofore observed, that on this side
of the contract, he seems to be a mighty meek sort of creature. And though I should like it
in him hereafter perhaps, yet I can't help despising him a little in my heart for it now. I
believe, my dear, we all love your blustering fellows best; could we but direct the bluster,
and bid it roar when and at whom we pleased.

The poor man looked at my mother. She was so angry, (my airs upon it, and my opposition to
the journey, have all helped,) that for half the way she would not speak to me. And when she
did, it was, I wish I had not brought you! You know not what it is to condescend. It is my
fault, not Mr. Hickman's, that you are here so much against your will. Have you no eyes for
this side of the chariot?

And then he fared the better from her, as he always does, for faring worse from me: for there
was, How do you now, Sir? And how do you now, Mr. Hickman? as he ambled now on this side of
the chariot, now on that, stealing a prim look at me; her head half out of the chariot, kindly
smiling, as if married to the man but a fortnight herself: while I always saw something to
divert myself on the side of the chariot where the honest man was not, were it but old Robin
at a distance, on his roan Keffel.

Our courtship-days, they say, are our best days. Favour destroys courtship. Distance increases
it. Its essence is distance. And, to see how familiar these men-wretches grow upon a smile,
what an awe they are struck into when we frown; who would not make them stand off? Who would
not enjoy a power, that is to be short-lived?

Don't chide me one bit for this, my dear. It is in nature. I can't help it. Nay, for that matter,
I love it, and wish not to help it. So spare your gravity, I beseech you on this subject. I
set up not for a perfect character. The man will bear it. And what need you care? My mother
overbalances all he suffers: And if he thinks himself unhappy, he ought never to be otherwise.

Then did he not deserve a fit of the sullens, think you, to make us lose our dinner for his
parade, since in so short a journey my mother would not bait, and lose the opportunity of coming
back that night, had the old lady's condition permitted it? To say nothing of being the cause,
that my mamma was in the glout with her poor daughter all the way.

At our alighting I gave him another dab; but it was but a little one. Yet the manner, and the
air, made up (as I intended they should) for that defect. My mother's hand was kindly put into
his, with a simpering altogether bridal; and with another How do you now, Sir?--All his plump
muscles were in motion, and a double charge of care and obsequiousness fidgeted up his whole
form, when he offered to me his officious palm. My mother, when I was a girl, always bid me
hold up my head. I just then remembered her commands, and was dutiful--I never held up my head
so high. With an averted supercilious eye, and a rejecting hand, half flourishing--I have no
need of help, Sir!--You are in my way.

He ran back, as if on wheels; with a face excessively mortified: I had thoughts else to have
followed the too-gentle touch, with a declaration, that I had as many hands and feet as himself.
But this would have been telling him a piece of news, as to the latter, that I hope he had
not the presumption to guess at.

*****

We found the poor woman, as we thought, at the last gasp. Had we come sooner, we could not
have got away as we intended, that night. You see I am for excusing the man all I can; and
yet, I assure you, I have not so much as a conditional liking to him. My mother sat up most
part of the night, expecting every hour would have been her poor cousin's last. I bore her
company till two.

I never saw the approaches of death in a grown person before; and was extremely shocked. Death,
to one in health, is a very terrible thing. We pity the person for what she suffers: and we
pity ourselves for what we must some time hence in like sort suffer; and so are doubly affected.

She held out till Tuesday morning, eleven. As she had told my mother that she had left her
an executrix, and her and me rings and mourning; we were employed all that day in matters of
the will [by which, by the way, my own cousin Jenny Fynnett is handsomely provided for], so
that it was Wednesday morning early, before we could set out on our return.

It is true, we got home (having no housings to stay for) by noon: but though I sent Robin away
before he dismounted, (who brought me back a whole packet, down to the same Wednesday noon,)
yet was I really so fatigued, and shocked, as I must own, at the hard death of the old lady;
my mother likewise (who has no reason to dislike this world) being indisposed from the same
occasion; that I could not set about writing time enough for Robin's return that night.

But having recruited my spirits, my mother having also had a good night, I arose with the dawn,
to write this, and get it dispatched time enough for your breakfast airing; that your suspense
might be as short as possible.

*****

I will soon follow this with another. I will employ a person directly to find out how Lovelace
behaves himself at his inn. Such a busy spirit must be traceable.

But, perhaps, my dear, you are indifferent now about him, or his employments; for this request
was made before he mortally offended you. Nevertheless, I will have inquiry made. The result,
it is very probable, will be of use to confirm you in your present unforgiving temper.--And
yet, if the poor man [shall I pity him for you, my dear?] should be deprived of the greatest
blessing any man on earth can receive, and to which he has the presumption, with so little
merit, to aspire; he will have run great risks; caught great colds; hazarded fevers; sustained
the highest indignities; braved the inclemencies of skies, and all for--nothing!--Will not
this move your generosity (if nothing else) in his favour!--Poor Mr. Lovelace--!

I would occasion no throb; nor half-throb; no flash of sensibility, like lightning darting
in, and as soon suppressed by a discretion that no one of the sex ever before could give such
an example of--I would not, I say; and yet, for such a trial of you to yourself, rather than
as an impertinent overflow of raillery in your friend, as money-takers try a suspected guinea
by the sound, let me on such a supposition, sound you, by repeating, poor Mr. Lovelace!

And now, my dear, how is it with you? How do you now, as my mother says to Mr. Hickman, when
her pert daughter has made him look sorrowful?

LETTER XXII

MR. HICKMAN, TO MRS. HOWE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29.

MADAM,

It is with infinite regret that I think myself obliged, by pen and ink, to repeat my apprehension,
that it is impossible for me ever to obtain a share in the affections of your beloved daughter.
O that it were not too evident to every one, as well as to myself, even to our very servants,
that my love for her, and my assiduities, expose me rather to her scorn [forgive me, Madam,
the hard word!] than to the treatment due to a man whose proposals have met with your approbation,
and who loves her above all the women in the world!

Well might the merit of my passion be doubted, if, like Mr. Solmes to the truly-admirably Miss
Clarissa Harlowe, I could continue my addresses to Miss Howe's distaste. Yet what will not
the discontinuance cost me!

Give me leave, nevertheless, dearest, worthiest Lady, to repeat, what I told you, on Monday
night, at Mrs. Larkin's, with a heart even bursting with grief, That I wanted not the treatment
of that day to convince me, that I am not, nor ever can be, the object of Miss Howe's voluntary
favour. What hopes can there be, that a lady will ever esteem, as a husband, the man, whom,
as a lover, she despises? Will not every act of obligingness from such a one, be construed
as an unmanly tameness of spirit, and entitle him the more to her disdain?--My heart is full:
Forgive me, if I say, that Miss Howe's treatment of me does no credit either to her education,
or fine sense.

Since, then, it is too evident, that she cannot esteem me; and since, as I have heard it justly
observed by the excellent Miss Clarissa Harlowe, that love is not a voluntary passion; would
it not be ungenerous to subject the dear daughter to the displeasure of a mother so justly
fond of her; and you, Madam, while you are so good as to interest yourself in my favour, to
uneasiness? And why, were I even to be sure, at last, of succeeding by means of your kind partiality
to me, should I wish to make the best-beloved of my soul unhappy; since mutual must be our
happiness, or misery for life the consequence to both?

My best wishes will for ever attend the dear, the ever-dear lady! may her nuptials be happy!
they must be so, if she marry the man she can honour with her love. Yet I will say, that whoever
be the happy, the thrice-happy man, he can never love her with a passion more ardent and more
sincere than mine.

Accept, dear Madam, of my most grateful thanks for a distinction that has been the only support
of my presumption in an address I am obliged, as utterly hopeless, to discontinue. A distinction,
on which (and not on my own merits) I had entirely relied; but which, I find, can avail me
nothing. To the last hour of my life, it will give me pleasure to think, that had your favour,
your recommendation, been of sufficient weight to conquer what seems to be an invincible aversion,
I had been the happiest of men.

I am, dear Madam, with inviolable respect, your ever obliged and faithful humble servant, CHARLES
HICKMAN.

LETTER XXIII

MRS. HOWE, TO CHARLES HICKMAN, ESQ. THURSDAY, MARCH 30.

I cannot but say, Mr. Hickman, but you have cause to be dissatisfied--to be out of humour--to
be displeased--with Nancy--but, upon my word; but indeed--What shall I say?--Yet this I will
say, that you good young gentlemen know nothing at all of our sex. Shall I tell you--but why
should I? And yet I will, that if Nancy did not think well of you upon the main, she is too
generous to treat you so freely as she does.--Don't you think she has courage enough to tell
me, she would not see you, and to refuse at any time seeing you, as she knows on what account
you come, if she had not something in her head favourable to you?--Fie! that I am forced to
say thus much in writing, when I have hinted it to you twenty and twenty times by word of mouth!

But if you are so indifferent, Mr. Hickman--if you think you can part with her for her skittish
tricks--if my interest in your favour--Why, Mr. Hickman, I must tell you that my Nancy is worth
bearing with. If she be foolish--what is that owing to?--Is it not to her wit? Let me tell
you, Sir, you cannot have the convenience without the inconvenience. What workman loves not
a sharp tool to work with? But is there not more danger from a sharp tool than from a blunt
one? And what workman will throw away a sharp tool, because it may cut his fingers? Wit may
be likened to a sharp tool. And there is something very pretty in wit, let me tell you. Often
and often have I been forced to smile at her arch turns upon me, when I could have beat her
for them. And, pray, don't I bear a great deal from her?--And why? because I love her. And
would you not wish me to judge of your love for her by my own? And would not you bear with
her?--Don't you love her (what though with another sort of love?) as well as I do? I do assure
you, Sir, that if I thought you did not--Well, but it is plain that you don't!--And is it plain
that you don't?--Well, then, you must do as you think best.

Well might the merit of your passion be doubted, you say, if, like Mr. Solmes--fiddle-faddle!--Why,
you are a captious man, I think!--Has Nancy been so plain in her repulses of you as Miss Clary
Harlowe has been to Mr. Solmes?--Does Nancy love any man better than you, although she may
not shew so much love to you as you wish for?--If she did, let me tell you, she would have
let us all hear of it.--What idle comparisons then!

But it mat be you are tired out. It may be you have seen somebody else--it may be you would
wish to change mistresses with that gay wretch Mr. Lovelace. It may be too, that, in that case,
Nancy would not be sorry to change lovers--The truly-admirable Miss Clarissa Harlowe!--Good
lack!-but take care, Mr. Hickman, that you do not praise any woman living, let her be as admirable
and as excellent as she will, above your own mistress. No polite man will do that, surely.
And take care too, that you do not make her or me think you are in earnest in your anger--just
though it may be, as anger only--I would not for a thousand pounds, that Nancy should know
that you can so easily part with her, if you have the love for her which you declare you have.
Be sure, if you are not absolutely determined, that you do not so much as whisper the contents
of this your letter to your own heart, as I may say.

Her treatment of you, you say, does no credit either to her education or fine sense. Very home
put, truly! Nevertheless, so say I. But is not hers the disgrace, more than yours? I can assure
you, that every body blames her for it. And why do they blame her?--Why? because they think
you merit better treatment at her hands: And is not this to your credit? Who but pities you,
and blames he? Do the servants, who, as you observe, see her skittish airs, disrespect you
for them? Do they not, at such times, look concerned for you? Are they not then doubly officious
in their respects and services to you?--I have observed, with pleasure, that they are.

But you are afraid you shall be thought tame, perhaps, when married. That you shall not be
though manly enough, I warrant!--And this was poor Mr. Howe's fear. And many a tug did this
lordly fear cost us both, God knows!--Many more than needed, I am sure:--and more than ought
to have been, had he known how to bear and forbear; as is the duty of those who pretend to
have most sense--And, pray, which would you have to have most sense, the woman or the man?

Well, Sir, and now what remains, if you really love Nancy so well as you say you do?--Why,
I leave that to you. You may, if you please, come to breakfast with me in the morning. But
with no full heart, nor resenting looks, I advise you; except you can brave it out. That have
I, when provoked, done many a time with my husband, but never did I get any thing by it with
my daughter: much less will you. Of which, for your observation, I thought fit to advise you.
As from

Your friend, Anabella Howe.

I will now take some notice of your last favour. But being so far behind-hand with you, must
be brief.

In the first place, as to your reproofs, thus shall I discharge myself of that part of my subject.
Is it likely, think you, that I should avoid deserving them now-and-then, occasionally, when
I admire the manner in which you give me your rebukes, and love you the better for them? And
when you are so well entitled to give them? For what faults can you possibly have, unless your
relations are so kind as to find you a few to keep their many in countenance?--But they are
as king to me in this, as to you; for I may venture to affirm, That any one who should read
your letters, and would say you were right, would not on reading mine, condemn me for them
quite wrong.

Your resolution not to leave your father's house is right--if you can stay in it, and avoid
being Solmes's wife.

I think you have answered Solmes's letter, as I should have answered it.--Will you not compliment
me and yourself at once, by saying, that was right?

You have, in your letters to your uncle and the rest, done all that you ought to do. You are
wholly guiltless of the consequence, be it what it will. To offer to give up your estate!--That
would not I have done! You see this offer staggered them: they took time to consider of it.
They made my heart ache in the time they took. I was afraid they would have taken you at your
word: and so, but for shame, and for fear of Lovelace, I dare say they would. You are too noble
for them. This, I repeat, is an offer I would not have made. Let me beg of you, my dear, never
to repeat the temptation to them.

I freely own to you, that their usage of you upon it, and Lovelace's different treatment of
you* in his letter received at the same time, would have made me his, past redemption. The
duce take the man, I was going to say, for not having so much regard to his character and morals,
as would have entirely justified such a step in a CLARISSA, persecuted as she is!

     * See Letter XVIII.

I wonder not at your appointment with him. I may further touch upon some part of this subject
by-and-by.

Pray--pray--I pray you now, my dearest friend, contrive to send your Betty Banes to me!--Does
the Coventry Act extend to women, know ye?--The least I will do, shall be, to send her home
well soused in and dragged through our deepest horsepond. I'll engage, if I get her hither,
that she will keep the anniversary of her deliverance as long as she lives.

I wonder not at Lovelace's saucy answer, saucy as it really is.* If he loves you as he ought,
he must be vexed at so great a disappointment. The man must have been a detestable hypocrite,
I think, had he not shown his vexation. Your expectations of such a christian command of temper
in him, in a disappointment of this nature especially, are too early by almost half a century
in a man of his constitution. But nevertheless I am very far from blaming you for your resentment.

     * See Letter XX.

I shall be all impatience to know how this matter ends between you and him. But a few inches
of brick wall between you so lately; and now such mountains?--And you think to hold it?--May be so!

You see, you say, that the temper he shewed in his letter was not natural to him. Wretched
creepers and insinuators! Yet when opportunity serves, as insolent encroachers!--This very
Hickman, I make no doubt, would be as saucy as your Lovelace, if he dared. He has not half
the arrogant bravery of the other, and can better hide his horns; that's all. But whenever
he has the power, depend upon it, he will butt at one as valiantly as the other.

If ever I should be persuaded to have him, I shall watch how the obsequious lover goes off;
and how the imperative husband comes upon him; in short, how he ascends, and how I descend,
in the matrimonial wheel, never to take my turn again, but by fits and starts like the feeble
struggles of a sinking state for its dying liberty.

All good-natured men are passionate, says Mr. Lovelace. A pretty plea to a beloved object in
the plenitude of her power! As much as to say, 'Greatly I value you, Madam, I will not take
pains to curb my passions to oblige you'--Methinks I should be glad to hear from Mr. Hickman
such a plea for good nature as this.

Indeed, we are too apt to make allowances for such tempers as early indulgence has made uncontroulable;
and therefore habitually evil. But if a boisterous temper, when under obligation, is to be
thus allowed for, what, when the tables are turned, will it expect? You know a husband, who,
I fancy, had some of these early allowances made for him: and you see that neither himself
nor any body else is the happier for it.

The suiting of the tempers of two persons who are to come together, is a great matter: and
there should be boundaries fixed between them, by consent as it were, beyond which neither
should go: and each should hold the other to it; or there would probably be encroachment in
both. To illustrate my assertion by a very high, and by a more manly (as some would think it)
than womanly instance--if the boundaries of the three estates that constitute our political
union were not known, and occasionally asserted, what would become of the prerogatives and
privileges of each? The two branches of the legislature would encroach upon each other; and
the executive power would swallow up both.

But if two persons of discretion, you'll say, come together--

Ay, my dear, that's true: but, if none but persons of discretion were to marry--And would it
not surprise you if I were to advance, that the persons of discretion are generally single?--Such
persons are apt to consider too much, to resolve.--Are not you and I complimented as such?--And
would either of us marry, if the fellows and our friends would let us alone?

But to the former point;--had Lovelace made his addresses to me, (unless indeed I had been
taken with a liking for him more than conditional,) I would have forbid him, upon the first
passionate instance of his good-nature, as he calls it, ever to see me more: 'Thou must bear
with me, honest friend, might I have said [had I condescended to say any thing to him] an hundred
times more than this:--Begone, therefore!--I bear with no passions that are predominant to
that thou has pretended for me!'

But to one of your mild and gentle temper, it would be all one, were you married, whether the
man were a Lovelace or a Hickman in his spirit.--You are so obediently principled, that perhaps
you would have told a mild man, that he must not entreat, but command; and that it was beneath
him not to exact from you the obedience you had so solemnly vowed to him at the altar.--I know
of old, my dear, your meek regard to that little piddling part of the marriage-vow which some
prerogative-monger foisted into the office, to make that a duty, which he knew was not a right.

Our way of training-up, you say, makes us need the protection of the brave. Very true: And
how extremely brave and gallant is it, that this brave man will free us from all insults but
those which will go nearest to our hearts; that is to say, his own!

How artfully has Lovelace, in the abstract you give me of one of his letters, calculated to
your meridian! Generous spirits hate compulsion!--He is certainly a deeper creature by much
than once we thought him. He knows, as you intimate, that his own wild pranks cannot be concealed:
and so owns just enough to palliate (because it teaches you not to be surprised at) any new
one, that may come to your ears; and then, truly, he is, however faulty, a mighty ingenuous
man; and by no means an hypocrite: a character the most odious of all others, to our sex, in
a lover, and the least to be forgiven, were it only because, when detected, it makes us doubt
the justice of those praises which we are willing to believe he thought to be our due.

By means of this supposed ingenuity, Lovelace obtains a praise, instead of a merited dispraise;
and, like an absolved confessionaire, wipes off as he goes along one score, to begin another:
for an eye favourable to him will not see his faults through a magnifying glass; nor will a
woman, willing to hope the best, forbear to impute it to ill-will and prejudice all that charity
can make so imputable. And if she even give credit to such of the unfavourable imputations
as may be too flagrant to be doubted, she will be very apt to take in the future hope, which
he inculcates, and which to question would be to question her own power, and perhaps merit:
and thus may a woman be inclined to make a slight, even a fancied merit atone for the most
glaring vice.

I have a reason, a new one, for this preachment upon a text you have given me. But, till I
am better informed, I will not explain myself. If it come out, as I shrewdly suspect it will,
the man, my dear, is a devil; and you must rather think of--I protest I had like to have said
Solmes than him.

But let this be as it will, shall I tell you, how, after all his offences, he may creep in
with you again?

I will. Thus then: It is but to claim for himself the good-natured character: and this, granted,
will blot out the fault of passionate insolence: and so he will have nothing to do, but this
hour to accustom you to insult; the next, to bring you to forgive him, upon his submission:
the consequence must be, that he will, by this teazing, break your resentment all to pieces:
and then, a little more of the insult, and a little less of the submission, on his part, will
go down, till nothing else but the first will be seen, and not a bit of the second. You will
then be afraid to provoke so offensive a spirit: and at last will be brought so prettily, and
so audibly, to pronounce the little reptile word OBEY, that it will do one's heart good to
hear you. The Muscovite wife then takes place of the managed mistress. And if you doubt the
progression, be pleased, my dear, to take your mother's judgment upon it.

But no more of this just now. Your situation is become too critical to permit me to dwell upon
these sort of topics. And yet this is but an affected levity with me. My heart, as I have heretofore
said, is a sincere sharer in all your distresses. My sun-shine darts but through a drizly cloud.
My eye, were you to see it, when it seems to you so gladdened, as you mentioned in a former,
is more than ready to overflow, even at the very passages perhaps upon which you impute to
me the archness of exultation.

But now the unheard-of cruelty and perverseness of some of your friends [relations, I should
say--I am always blundering thus!] the as strange determinedness of others; your present quarrel
with Lovelace; and your approaching interview with Solmes, from which you are right to apprehend
a great deal; are such considerable circumstances in your story, that it is fit they should
engross all my attention.

You ask me to advise you how to behave upon Solmes's visit. I cannot for my life. I know they
expect a great deal from it: you had not else had your long day complied with. All I will say
is, That if Solmes cannot be prevailed for, now that Lovelace has so much offended you, he
never will. When the interview is over, I doubt not but that I shall have reason to say, that
all you did, that all you said, was right, and could not be better: yet, if I don't think so,
I won't say so; that I promise you.

Only let me advise you to pull up a spirit, even to your uncle, if there be occasion. Resent
the vile and foolish treatment you meet with, in which he has taken so large a share, and make
him ashamed of it, if you can.

I know not, upon recollection, but this interview may be a good thing for you, however designed.
For when Solmes sees (if that be to be so) that it is impossible he should succeed with you;
and your relations see it too; the one must, I think, recede, and the other come to terms with
you, upon offers, that it is my opinion, will go hard enough with you to comply with; when
the still harder are dispensed with.

There are several passages in your last letters, as well as in your former, which authorize
me to say this. But it would be unseasonable to touch this subject farther just now.

But, upon the whole, I have no patience to see you thus made sport of your brother's and sister's
cruelty: For what, after so much steadiness on your part, in so many trials, can be their hope?
except indeed it be to drive you to extremity, and to ruin you in the opinion of your uncles
as well as father.

I urge you by all means to send out of their reach all the letters and papers you would not
have them see. Methinks, I would wish you to deposit likewise a parcel of clothes, linen, and
the like, before your interview with Solmes: lest you should not have an opportunity for it
afterwards. Robin shall fetch it away on the first orders by day or by night.

I am in hopes to procure from my mother, if things come to extremity, leave for you to be privately
with us.

I will condition to be good-humoured, and even kind, to HER favourite, if she will shew me
an indulgence that shall make me serviceable to MINE.

This alternative has been a good while in my head. But as your foolish uncle has so strangely
attached my mother to their views, I cannot promise that I shall succeed as I wish.

Do not absolutely despair, however. What though the contention will be between woman and woman?
I fancy I shall be able to manage it, by the help of a little female perseverance. Your quarrel
with Lovelace, if it continue, will strengthen my hands. And the offers you made in your answer
to your uncle Harlowe's letter of Sunday night last, duly dwelt upon, must add force to my pleas.

You have very kindly accounted for your silence. People in misfortune are always in doubt.
They are too apt to turn even unavoidable accidents into slights and neglects; especially in
those whose favourable opinion they wish to preserve.

I am sure I ought evermore to exempt my Anna Howe from the supposed possibility of her becoming
one of those who bask only in the sun-shine of a friend: but nevertheless her friendship is
too precious to me, not to doubt my own merits on the one hand, and not to be anxious for the
preservation of it, on the other.

You so generously gave me liberty to chide you, that I am afraid of taking it, because I could
sooner mistrust my own judgment, than that of a beloved friend, whose ingenuousness in acknowledging
an imputed error seems to set her above the commission of a wilful one. This makes me half-afraid
to ask you, if you think you are not too cruel, too ungenerous shall I say? in your behaviour
to a man who loves you so dearly, and is so worthy and so sincere a man?

Only it is by YOU, or I should be ashamed to be outdone in that true magnanimity, which makes
one thankful for the wounds given by a true friend. I believe I was guilty of a petulance,
which nothing but my uneasy situation can excuse; if that can. I am but almost afraid to beg
of you, and yet I repeatedly do, to give way to that charming spirit, whenever it rises to
your pen, which smiles, yet goes to the quick of my fault. What patient shall be afraid of
a probe in so delicate a hand?--I say, I am almost afraid to pray you to give way to it, for
fear you should, for that very reason, restrain it. For the edge may be taken off, if it does
not make the subject of its raillery wince a little. Permitted or desired satire may be apt,
in a generous satirist, mending as it rallies, to turn too soon into panegyric. Yours is intended
to instruct; and though it bites, it pleases at the same time: no fear of a wound's wrankling
or festering by so delicate a point as you carry; not envenomed by personality, not intending
to expose, or ridicule, or exasperate. The most admired of our moderns know nothing of this
art: Why? Because it must be founded in good nature, and directed by a right heart. The man,
not the fault, is generally the subject of their satire: and were it to be just, how should
it be useful; how should it answer any good purpose; when every gash (for their weapon is a
broad sword, not a lancet) lets in the air of public ridicule, and exasperates where it should
heal? Spare me not therefore because I am your friend. For that very reason spare me not. I
may feel your edge, fine as it is. I may be pained: you would lose you end if I were not: but
after the first sensibility (as I have said more than once before) I will love you the better,
and my amended heart shall be all yours; and it will then be more worthy to be yours.

You have taught me what to say to, and what to think of, Mr. Lovelace. You have, by agreeable
anticipation, let me know how it is probable he will apply to me to be excused. I will lay
every thing before you that shall pass on the occasion, if he do apply, that I may take your
advice, when it can come in time; and when it cannot, that I may receive your correction, or
approbation, as I may happen to merit either.--Only one thing must be allowed for me; that
whatever course I shall be permitted or be forced to steer, I must be considered as a person
out of her own direction. Tost to and fro by the high winds of passionate controul, (and, as
I think, unseasonable severity,) I behold the desired port, the single state, into which I
would fain steer; but am kept off by the foaming billows of a brother's and sister's envy,
and by the raging winds of a supposed invaded authority; while I see in Lovelace, the rocks
on one hand, and in Solmes, the sands on the other; and tremble, lest I should split upon the
former, or strike upon the latter.

But you, my better pilot, to what a charming hope do you bid me aspire, if things come to extremity!--I
will not, as you caution me, too much depend upon your success with your mother in my favour;
for well I know her high notions of implicit duty in a child: but yet I will hope too; because
her seasonable protection may save me perhaps from a greater rashness: and in this case, she
shall direct me in all my ways: I will do nothing but by her orders, and by her advice and
yours: not see any body: not write to any body: nor shall any living soul, but by her direction
and yours, know where I am. In any cottage place me, I will never stir out, unless, disguised
as your servant, I am now-and-then permitted an evening-walk with you: and this private protection
to be granted for no longer time than till my cousin Morden comes; which, as I hope, cannot
be long.

I am afraid I must not venture to take the hint you give me, to deposit some of my clothes;
although I will some of my linen, as well as papers.

I will tell you why--Betty had for some time been very curious about my wardrobe, whenever
I took out any of my things before her.

Observing this, I once, on taking one of my garden-airings, left my keys in the locks: and
on my return surprised the creature with her hand upon the keys, as if shutting the door.

She was confounded at my sudden coming back. I took no notice: but on her retiring, I found
my cloaths were not in the usual order.

I doubted not, upon this, that her curiosity was owing to the orders she had received; and
being afraid they would abridge me of my airings, if their suspicions were not obviated, it
has ever since been my custom (among other contrivances) not only to leave my keys in the locks,
but to employ the wench now-and-then in taking out my cloaths, suit by suit, on pretence of
preventing their being rumpled or creased, and to see that the flowered silver suit did not
tarnish: sometimes declaredly to give myself employment, having little else to do. With which
employment (superadded to the delight taken by the low as well as by the high of our sex in
seeing fine cloaths) she seemed always, I thought, as well pleased as if it answered one of
the offices she had in charge.

To this, and to the confidence they have in a spy so diligent, and to their knowing that I
have not one confidant in a family in which nevertheless I believe every servant loves me;
nor have attempted to make one; I suppose, I owe the freedom I enjoy of my airings: and perhaps
(finding I make no movements towards going away) they are the more secure, that I shall at
last be prevailed upon to comply with their measures: since they must think, that, otherwise,
they give me provocation enough to take some rash step, in order to free myself from a treatment
so disgraceful; and which [God forgive me, if I judge amiss!] I am afraid my brother and sister
would not be sorry to drive me to take.

If, therefore, such a step should become necessary, (which I yet hope will not,) I must be
contented to go away with the clothes I shall have on at the time. My custom to be dressed
for the day, as soon as breakfast is over, when I have had no household employments to prevent
me, will make such a step (if I am forced to take it) less suspected. And the linen I shall
deposit, in pursuance of your kind hint, cannot be missed.

This custom, although a prisoner, (as I may too truly say,) and neither visited nor visiting,
I continue. We owe to ourselves, and to our sex, you know, to be always neat; and never to
be surprised in a way we should be pained to be seen in.

Besides, people in adversity (which is the state of trial of every good quality) should endeavour
to preserve laudable customs, that, if sun shine return, they may not be losers by their trial.

Does it not, moreover, manifest a firmness of mind, in an unhappy person, to keep hope alive?
To hope for better days, is half to deserve them: for could we have just ground for such a
hope, if we did not resolve to deserve what that hope bids us aspire to?--Then who shall befriend
a person who forsakes herself?

These are reflections by which I sometimes endeavour to support myself.

I know you don't despise my grave airs, although (with a view no doubt to irradiate my mind
in my misfortunes) you rally me upon them. Every body has not your talent of introducing serious
and important lessons, in such a happy manner as at once to delight and instruct.

What a multitude of contrivances may not young people fall upon, if the mind be not engaged
by acts of kindness and condescension! I am not used by my friends of late as I always used
their servants.

When I was intrusted with the family-management, I always found it right, as well in policy
as generosity, to repose a trust in them. Not to seem to expect or depend upon justice from
them, is in a manner to bid them to take opportunities, whenever they offer, to be unjust.

Mr. Solmes, (to expatiate on this low, but not unuseful subject,) in his more trifling solicitudes,
would have had a sorry key-keeper in me. Were I mistress of a family, I would not either take
to myself, or give to servants, the pain of keeping those I had reason to suspect. People low
in station have often minds not sordid. Nay, I have sometimes thought, that (even take number
for number) there are more honest low people, than honest high. In the one, honest is their
chief pride. In the other, the love of power, of grandeur, of pleasure, mislead; and that and
their ambition induce a paramount pride, which too often swallows up the more laudable one.

Many of the former would scorn to deceive a confidence. But I have seen, among the most ignorant
of their class, a susceptibility of resentment, if their honesty has been suspected: and have
more than once been forced to put a servant right, whom I have heard say, that, although she
valued herself upon her honesty, no master or mistress should suspect her for nothing.

How far has the comparison I had in my head, between my friends treatment of me, and my treatment
of the servants, carried me!--But we always allowed ourselves to expatiate on such subjects,
whether low or high, as might tend to enlarge our minds, or mend our management, whether notional
or practical, and whether such expatiating respected our present, or might respect our probable
future situations.

What I was principally leading to, was to tell you how ingenious I am in my contrivances and
pretences to blind my gaoleress, and to take off the jealousy of her principals on my going
down so often into the garden and poultry-yard. People suspiciously treated are never I believe
at a loss for invention. Sometimes I want air, and am better the moment I am out of my chamber.--Sometimes
spirits; and then my bantams and pheasants or the cascade divert me; the former, by their inspiring
liveliness; the latter, by its echoing dashes, and hollow murmurs.--Sometimes, solitude is
of all things my wish; and the awful silence of the night, the spangled element, and the rising
and setting sun, how promotive of contemplation!--Sometimes, when I intend nothing, and expect
no letters, I am officious to take Betty with me; and at others, bespeak her attendance, when
I know she is otherwise employed, and cannot give it me.

These more capital artifices I branch out into lesser ones, without number. Yet all have not
only the face of truth, but are real truths; although not my principal motive. How prompt a
thing is will!--What impediments does dislike furnish!--How swiftly, through every difficulty,
do we move with the one!--how tardily with the other!--every trifling obstruction weighing
us down, as if lead were fastened to our feet!

FRIDAY MORNING, ELEVEN O'CLOCK.

I have already made up my parcel of linen. My heart ached all the time I was employed about
it; and still aches, at the thoughts of its being a necessary precaution.

When the parcel comes to your hands, as I hope it safely will, you will be pleased to open
it. You will find in it two parcels sealed up; one of which contains the letters you have not
yet seen; being those written since I left you: in the other are all the letters and copies
of letters that have passed between you and me since I was last with you; with some other papers
on subjects so much above me, that I cannot wish them to be seen by any body whose indulgence
I am not so sure of, as I am of yours. If my judgment ripen with my years, perhaps I may review
them.

Mrs. Norton used to say, from her reverend father, that youth was the time of life for imagination
and fancy to work in: then, were a writer to lay by his works till riper years and experience
should direct the fire rather to glow, than to flame out; something between both might perhaps
be produced that would not displease a judicious eye.

In a third division, folded up separately, are all Mr. Lovelace's letters written to me since
he was forbidden this house, and copies of my answers to them. I expect that you will break
the seals of this parcel, and when you have perused them all, give me your free opinion of
my conduct.

By the way, not a line from that man!--Not one line! Wednesday I deposited mine. It remained
there on Wednesday night. What time it was taken away yesterday I cannot tell: for I did not
concern myself about it, till towards night; and then it was not there. No return at ten this
day. I suppose he is as much out of humour as I.--With all my heart.

He may be mean enough perhaps, if ever I should put it into his power, to avenge himself for
the trouble he has had with me.--But that now, I dare say, I never shall.

I see what sort of a man the encroacher is. And I hope we are equally sick of one another.--My
heart is vexedly easy, if I may so describe it.--Vexedly--because of the apprehended interview
with Solmes, and the consequences it may be attended with: or else I should be quite easy;
for why? I have not deserved the usage I receive: and could I be rid of Solmes, as I presume
I am of Lovelace, their influence over my father, mother, and uncles, against me, could not hold.

The five guineas tied up in one corner of a handkerchief under the linen, I beg you will let
pass as an acknowledgement for the trouble I give your trusty servant. You must not chide me
for this. You know I cannot be easy unless I have my way in these little matters.

I was going to put up what little money I have, and some of my ornaments; but they are portable,
and I cannot forget them. Besides, should they (suspecting me) desire to see any of the jewels,
and were I not able to produce them, it would amount to a demonstration of an intention which
would have a guilty appearance to them.

FRIDAY, ONE O'CLOCK, IN THE WOOD-HOUSE.

No letter yet from this man! I have luckily deposited my parcel, and have your letter of last
night. If Robert take this without the parcel, pray let him return immediately for it. But
he cannot miss it, I think: and must conclude that it is put there for him to take away. You
may believe, from the contents of yours, that I shall immediately write again.--

CLARISSA HARLOWE.

The fruits of my inquiry after your abominable wretch's behaviour and baseness at the paltry
alehouse, which he calls an inn, prepare to hear.

Wrens and sparrows are not too ignoble a quarry for this villainous gos-hawk!--His assiduities;
his watchings; his nightly risques; the inclement weather he journeys in; must not be all placed
to your account. He has opportunities of making every thing light to him of that sort. A sweet
pretty girl, I am told--innocent till he went thither--Now! (Ah! poor girl!) who knows what?

But just turned of seventeen!--His friend and brother-rake (a man of humour and intrigue) as
I am told, to share the social bottle with. And sometimes another disguised rake or two. No
sorrow comes near their hearts. Be not disturbed, my dear, at his hoarsenesses! his pretty,
Betsey, his Rosebud, as the vile wretch calls her, can hear all he says.

He is very fond of her. They say she is innocent even yet--her father, her grandmother, believe
her to be so. He is to fortune her out to a young lover!--Ah! the poor young lover!--Ah! the
poor simple girl!

Mr. Hickman tells me, that he heard in town, that he used to be often at plays, and at the
opera, with women; and every time with a different one--Ah! my sweet friend!--But I hope he
is nothing to you, if all this were truth.--But this intelligence, in relation to this poor
girl, will do his business, if you had been ever so good friends before.

A vile wretch! Cannot such purity in pursuit, in view, restrain him? but I leave him to you!--There
can be no hope of him. More of a fool, than of such a man. Yet I wish I may be able to snatch
the poor young creature out of his villainous paws. I have laid a scheme to do so; if indeed
she be hitherto innocent and heart-free.

He appears to the people as a military man, in disguise, secreting himself on account of a
duel fought in town; the adversary's life in suspense. They believe he is a great man. His
friend passes for an inferior officer; upon a footing of freedom with him. He, accompanied
by a third man, who is a sort of subordinate companion to the second. The wretch himself with
but one servant.

O my dear! how pleasantly can these devils, as I must call them, pass their time, while our
gentle bosoms heave with pity for their supposed sufferings for us!

*****

I have sent for this girl and her father; and am just now informed, that I shall see them.
I will sift them thoroughly. I shall soon find out such a simple thing as this, if he has not
corrupted her already--and if he has, I shall soon find out that too.--If more art than nature
appears either in her or her father, I shall give them both up--but depend upon it, the girl's
undone.

He is said to be fond of her. He places her at the upper end of his table. He sets her a-prattling.
He keeps his friends at a distance from her. She prates away. He admires for nature all she
says. Once was heard to call her charming little creature! An hundred has he called so no doubt.
He puts her upon singing. He praises her wild note--O my dear, the girl's undone!--must be
undone!--The man, you know, is LOVELACE.

Let 'em bring Wyerley to you, if they will have you married--any body but Solmes and Lovelace
be yours!--So advises

Your ANNA HOWE.

My dearest friend, consider this alehouse as his garrison: him as an enemy: his brother-rakes
as his assistants and abettors. Would not your brother, would not your uncles, tremble, if
they knew how near them he is, as they pass to and fro?--I am told, he is resolved you shall
not be carried to your uncle Antony's.--What can you do, with or without such an enterprising--

Fill up the blank I leave.--I cannot find a word bad enough

LETTER XXVII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY, THREE O'CLOCK.

You incense, alarm, and terrify me, at the same time.--Hasten, my dearest friend, hasten to
me what further intelligence you can gather about this vilest of men.

But never talk of innocence, of simplicity, and this unhappy girl, together! Must she not know,
that such a man as that, dignified in his very aspect; and no disguise able to conceal his
being of condition; must mean too much, when he places her at the upper end of his table, and
calls her by such tender names? Would a girl, modest as simple, above seventeen, be set a-singing
at the pleasure of such a man as that? a stranger, and professedly in disguise!--Would her
father and grandmother, if honest people, and careful of their simple girl, permit such freedoms?

Keep his friend at a distance from her!--To be sure his designs are villainous, if they have
not been already effected.

Warn, my dear, if not too late, the unthinking father, of his child's danger. There cannot
be a father in the world, who would sell his child's virtue. Nor mother!--The poor thing!

I long to hear the result of your intelligence. You shall see the simple creature, you tell
me.--Let me know what sort of a girl she is.--A sweet pretty girl! you say. A sweet pretty
girl, my dear!--They are sweet pretty words from your pen. But are they yours or his of her?--If
she be so simple, if she have ease and nature in her manner, in her speech, and warbles prettily
her wild notes, why, such a girl as that must engage such a profligate wretch, (as now indeed
I doubt this man is,) accustomed, perhaps, to town women, and their confident ways.--Must deeply
and for a long season engage him: since perhaps when her innocence is departed, she will endeavour
by art to supply the loss of the natural charms which now engage him.

Fine hopes of such a wretch's reformation! I would not, my dear, for the world, have any thing
to say--but I need not make resolutions. I have not opened, nor will I open, his letter.--A
sycophant creature!--With his hoarsenesses--got perhaps by a midnight revel, singing to his
wild note singer, and only increased in the coppice!

To be already on a footing!--In his esteem, I mean: for myself, I despise him. I hate myself
almost for writing so much about him, and of such a simpleton as this sweet pretty girl as
you call her: but no one can be either sweet or pretty, that is not modest, that is not virtuous.

And now, my dear, I will tell you how I came to put you upon this inquiry.

This vile Joseph Leman had given a hint to Betty, and she to me, as if Lovelace would be found
out to be a very bad man, at a place where he had been lately seen in disguise. But he would
see further, he said, before he told her more; and she promised secrecy, in hope to get at
further intelligence. I thought it could be no harm, to get you to inform yourself, and me,
of what could be gathered.* And now I see, his enemies are but too well warranted in their
reports of him: and, if the ruin of this poor young creature be his aim, and if he had not
known her but for his visits to Harlowe-place, I shall have reason to be doubly concerned for
her; and doubly incensed against so vile a man.

     * It will be seen in Vol.I.Letter XXXIV. that Mr. Lovelace's
     motive for sparing his Rosebud was twofold. First, Because
     his pride was gratified by the grandmother's desiring him to
     spare her grand-daughter.

His other motive will be explained in the following passage, in the same. A report in my favour,
from simplicities so amiable, may establish me, &c.

Accordingly, as the reader will hereafter see, Mr. Lovelace finds by the effects, his expectations
from the contrivance he set on foot by means of his agent Joseph Leman (who plays, as above,
upon Betty Barnes) fully answered, though he could not know what passed on the occasion between
the two ladies.

This explanation is the more necessary to be given, as several of our readers (through want
of due attention) have attributed to Mr. Lovelace, on his behaviour to his Rosebud, a greater
merit than was due to him; and moreover imagined, that it was improbable, that a man, who was
capable of acting so generously (as they supposed) in this instance, should be guilty of any
atrocious vileness. Not considering, that love, pride, and revenge as he owns in Vol.I.Letter
XXXI. were ingredients of equal force in his composition; and that resistance was a stimulus
to him.

I think I hate him worse than I do Solmes himself.

But I will not add one more word about hi,; and after I have told you, that I wish to know,
as soon as possible what further occurs from your inquiry. I have a letter from him; but shall
not open it till I do: and then, if it come out as I dare say it will, I will directly put
the letter unopened into the place I took it from, and never trouble myself more about him.
Adieu, my dearest friend.

CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XXVIII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE. FRIDAY NOON, MARCH 31.

Justice obliges me to forward this after my last on the wings of the wind, as I may say. I
really believe the man is innocent. Of this one accusation, I think he must be acquitted; and
I am sorry I was so forward in dispatching away my intelligence by halves.

I have seen the girl. She is really a very pretty, a very neat, and, what is still a greater
beauty, a very innocent young creature. He who could have ruined such an undersigned home-bred,
must have been indeed infernally wicked. Her father is an honest simple man; entirely satisfied
with his child, and with her new acquaintance.

I am almost afraid for your heart, when I tell you, that I find, now I have got to the bottom
of this inquiry, something noble come out in this Lovelace's favour.

The girl is to be married next week; and this promoted and brought about by him. He is resolved,
her father says, to make one couple happy, and wishes he could make more so [There's for you,
my dear!] And she professes to love, he has given her an hundred pounds: the grandmother actually
has it in her hands, to answer to the like sum given to the youth by one of his own relation:
while Mr. Lovelace's companion, attracted by the example, has given twenty-five guineas to
the father, who is poor, towards clothes to equip the pretty rustic.

Mr. Lovelace and his friend, the poor man says, when they first came to his house, affected
to appear as persons of low degree; but now he knows the one (but mentioned it in confidence)
to be Colonel Barrow, the other Captain Sloane. The colonel he owns was at first very sweet
upon his girl: but her grandmother's begging of him to spare her innocence, he vowed, that
he never would offer any thing but good counsel to her. He kept his word; and the pretty fool
acknowledged, that she never could have been better instructed by the minister himself from
the bible-book!--The girl pleased me so well, that I made her visit to me worth her while.

But what, my dear, will become of us now?--Lovelace not only reformed, but turned preacher!--What
will become of us now?--Why, my sweet friend, your generosity is now engaged in his favour!--Fie
upon this generosity! I think in my heart, that it does as much mischief to the noble-minded,
as love to the ignobler.--What before was only a conditional liking, I am now afraid will turn
to liking unconditional.

I could not endure to change my invective into panegyric all at once, and so soon. We, or such
as I at least, love to keep ourselves in countenance for a rash judgment, even when we know
it to be rash. Everybody has not your generosity in confessing a mistake. It requires a greatness
of soul frankly to do it. So I made still further inquiry after his life and manner, and behaviour
there, in hopes to find something bad: but all uniform!

Upon the whole, Mr. Lovelace comes out with so much advantage from this inquiry, that were
there the least room for it, I should suspect the whole to be a plot set on foot to wash a
blackamoor white. Adieu, my dear.

ANNA HOWE.

Hasty censures do indeed subject themselves to the charge of variableness and inconsistency
in judgment: and so they ought; for, if you, even you, my dear, were so loth to own a mistake,
as in the instance before us you pretend you were, I believe I should not have loved you so
well as I really do love you. Nor could you, in that case, have so frankly thrown the reflection
I hint at upon yourself, have not your mind been one of the most ingenuous that ever woman boasted.

Mr. Lovelace has faults enow to deserve very severe censure, although he be not guilty of this.
If I were upon such terms with him as he could wish me to be, I should give him such a hint,
that this treacherous Joseph Leman cannot be so much attached to him, as perhaps he thinks
him to be. If it were, he would not have been so ready to report to his disadvantage (and to
Betty Barnes too) this slight affair of the pretty rustic. Joseph has engaged Betty to secrecy;
promising to let her, and her young master, to know more, when he knows the whole of the matter:
and this hinders her from mentioning it, as she is nevertheless agog to do, to my sister or
brother. And then she does not choose to disoblige Joseph; for although she pretends to look
above him, she listens, I believe, to some love-stories he tells her.

Women having it not in their power to begin a courtship, some of them very frequently, I believe,
lend an ear where their hearts incline not.

But to say no more of these low people, neither of whom I think tolerably of; I must needs
own, that as I should for ever have despised this man, had he been capable of such a vile intrigue
in his way to Harlowe-place, and as I believe he was capable of it, it has indeed [I own it
has] proportionably engaged my generosity, as you call it, in his favour: perhaps more than
I may have reason to wish it had. And, rally me as you will, pray tell me fairly, my dear,
would it not have had such an effect upon you?

Then the real generosity of the act.--I protest, my beloved friend, if he would be good for
the rest of his life from this time, I would forgive him a great many of his past errors, were
it only for the demonstration he has given in this, that he is capable of so good and bountiful
a manner of thinking.

You may believe I made no scruple to open his letter, after the receipt of your second on this
subject: nor shall I of answering it, as I have no reason to find fault with it: an article
in his favour, procured him, however, so much the easier, (I must own,) by way of amends for
the undue displeasure I took against him; though he knows it not.

Is it lucky enough that this matter was cleared up to me by your friendly diligence so soon:
for had I written before it was, it would have been to reinforce my dismission of him; and
perhaps I should have mentioned the very motive; for it affected me more than I think it ought:
and then, what an advantage would that have given him, when he could have cleared up the matter
so happily for himself!

When I send you this letter of his, you will see how very humble he is: what acknowledgements
of natural impatience: what confession of faults, as you prognosticated.

A very different appearance, I must own, all these make, now the story of the pretty rustic
is cleared up, to what they would have made, had it not.

You will see how he accounts to me, 'That he could not, by reason of indisposition, come for
my letter in person: and the forward creature labours the point, as if he thought I should
be uneasy that he did not.' I am indeed sorry he should be ill on my account; and I will allow,
that the suspense he has been in for some time past, must have been vexatious enough to so
impatient a spirit. But all is owing originally to himself.

You will find him (in the presumption of being forgiven) 'full of contrivances and expedients
for my escaping my threatened compulsion.'

I have always said, that next to being without fault, is the acknowledgement of a fault; since
no amendment can be expected where an error is defended: but you will see in this very letter,
an haughtiness even in his submissions. 'Tis true, I know not where to find fault as to the
expression; yet cannot I be satisfied, that his humility is humility; or even an humility upon
such conviction as one should be pleased with.

To be sure, he is far from being a polite man: yet is not directly and characteristically,
as I may say, unpolite. But his is such a sort of politeness, as has, by a carelessness founded
on very early indulgence, and perhaps on too much success in riper years, and an arrogance
built upon both, grown into assuredness, and, of course, I may say, into indelicacy.

The distance you recommend at which to keep these men, is certainly right in the main: familiarity
destroys reverence: But with whom?--Not with those, surely, who are prudent, grateful, and
generous.

But it is very difficult for persons, who would avoid running into one extreme, to keep clear
of another. Hence Mr. Lovelace, perhaps, thinks it the mark of a great spirit to humour his
pride, though at the expense of his politeness: but can the man be a deep man, who knows not
how to make such distinctions as a person of but moderate parts cannot miss?

He complains heavily of my 'readiness to take mortal offence at him, and to dismiss him for
ever: it is a high conduct, he says, he must be frank enough to tell me; a conduct that must
be very far from contributing to allay his apprehensions of the possibility that I may be prosecuted
into my relations' measures in behalf of Mr. Solmes.'

You will see how he puts his present and his future happiness, 'with regard to both worlds,
entirely upon me.' The ardour with which he vows and promises, I think the heart only can dictate:
how else can one guess at a man's heart?

You will also see, 'that he has already heard of the interview I am to have with Mr. Solmes;'
and with what vehemence and anguish he expresses himself on the occasion. I intend to take
proper notice of the ignoble means he stoops to, to come at his early intelligence of our family.
If persons pretending to principle, bear not their testimony against unprincipled actions,
what check can they have?

You will see, 'how passionately he presses me to oblige him with a few lines, before the interview
between Mr. Solmes and me takes place, (if, as he says, it must take place,) to confirm his
hope, that I have no view, in my present displeasure against him, to give encouragement to
Solmes. An apprehension, he says, that he must be excused for repeating; especially as the
interview is a favour granted to that man, which I have refused to him; since, as he infers,
were it not with such an expectation, why should my friends press it?'

*****

I have written; and to this effect: 'That I had never intended to write another line to a man,
who could take upon himself to reflect upon my sex and myself, for having thought fit to make
use of my own judgment.

'I tell him, that I have submitted to the interview with Mr. Solmes, purely as an act of duty,
to shew my friends, that I will comply with their commands as far as I can; and that I hope,
when Mr. Solmes himself shall see how determined I am, he will cease to prosecute a suit, in
which it is impossible he should succeed with my consent.

'I assure him, that my aversion to Mr. Solmes is too sincere to permit me to doubt myself on
this occasion. But, nevertheless, he must not imagine, that my rejecting of Mr. Solmes is in
favour to him. That I value my freedom and independency too much, if my friends will but leave
me to my own judgment, to give them up to a man so uncontroulable, and who shews me beforehand
what I have to expect from him, were I in his power.

'I express my high disapprobation of the methods he takes to come at what passes in a private
family. The pretence of corrupting other people's servants, by way of reprisal for the spies
they have set upon him, I tell him, is a very poor excuse; and no more than an attempt to justify
one meanness by another.

'There is, I observe to him, a right and a wrong in every thing, let people put what glosses
they please upon their action. To condemn a deviation, and to follow it by as great a one,
what, I ask him, is this, but propagating a general corruption?--A stand must be made somebody,
turn round the evil as many as may, or virtue will be lost: And shall it not be I, a worthy
mind would ask, that shall make this stand?

'I leave him to judge, whether his be a worthy one, tried by this rule: And whether, knowing
the impetuosity of his own disposition, and the improbability there is that my father and family
will ever be reconciled to him, I ought to encourage his hopes?

'These spots and blemishes, I further tell him, give me not earnestness enough for any sake
but his own, to wish him in a juster and nobler train of thinking and acting; for that I truly
despised many of the ways he allows himself in: our minds are therefore infinitely different:
and as to his professions of reformation, I must tell him, that profuse acknowledgements, without
amendment, are but to me as so many anticipating concessions, which he may find much easier
to make, thane either to defend himself, or amend his errors.

'I inform him, that I have been lately made acquainted' [and so I have by Betty, and she by
my brother] 'with the weak and wanton airs he gives himself of declaiming against matrimony.
I severely reprehend him on this occasion: and ask him, with what view he can take so witless,
so despicable a liberty, in which only the most abandoned of men allow themselves, and yet
presume to address me?

'I tell him, that if I am obliged to go to my uncle Antony's, it is not to be inferred, that
I must therefore necessarily be Mr. Solmes's wife: since I must therefore so sure perhaps that
the same exceptions lie so strongly against my quitting a house to which I shall be forcibly
carried, as if I left my father's house: and, at the worst, I may be able to keep them in suspense
till my cousin Morden comes, who will have a right to put me in possession of my grandfather's
estate, if I insist upon it.'

This, I doubt, is somewhat of an artifice; which can only be excusable, as it is principally
designed to keep him out of mischief. For I have but little hope, if carried thither, whether
sensible or senseless, absolutely if I am left to the mercy of my brother and sister, but they
will endeavour to force the solemn obligation upon me. Otherwise, were there but any prospect
of avoiding this, by delaying (or even by taking things to make me ill, if nothing else would
do,) till my cousin comes, I hope I should not think of leaving even my uncle's house. For
I should not know how to square it to my own principles, to dispense with the duty I owe to
my father, wherever it shall be his will to place me.

But while you give me the charming hope, that, in order to avoid one man, I shall not be under
the necessity of throwing myself upon the friends of the other; I think my case not desperate.

*****

I see not any of my family, nor hear from them in any way of kindness. This looks as if they
themselves expected no great matters from the Tuesday's conference which makes my heart flutter
every time I think of it.

My uncle Antony's presence on the occasion I do not much like: but I had rather meet him than
my brother or sister: yet my uncle is very impetuous. I can't think Mr. Lovelace can be much
more so; at least he cannot look angry, as my uncle, with his harder features, can. These sea-prospered
gentlemen, as my uncle has often made me think, not used to any but elemental controul, and
even ready to buffet that, bluster often as violently as the winds they are accustomed to be
angry at.

I believe Mr. Solmes will look as much like a fool as I shall do, if it be true, as my uncle
Harlowe writes, and as Betty often tells me, that he is as much afraid of seeing me, as I am
of seeing him.

Adieu, my happy, thrice-happy Miss Howe, who have no hard terms fixed to your duty!--Who have
nothing to do, but to fall in with a choice your mother has made for you, to which you have
not, nor can have, a just objection: except the frowardness of our sex, as our free censurers
would perhaps take the liberty to say, makes it one, that the choice was your mother's, at
first hand. Perverse nature, we know, loves not to be prescribed to; although youth is not
so well qualified, either by sedateness or experience, to choose for itself.

To know your own happiness, and that it is now, nor to leave it to after reflection to look
back upon the preferable past with a heavy and self accusing heart, that you did not choose
it when you might have chosen it, is all that is necessary to complete your felicity!--And
this power is wished you by

Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XXX

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE SATURDAY, APRIL 2.

I ought yesterday to have acknowledged the receipt of your parcel. Robin tells me, that the
Joseph Leman, whom you mention as the traitor, saw him. He was in the poultry-yard, and spoke
to Robin over the bank which divides that from the green-lane. 'What brings you hither, Mr.
Robert?--But I can tell. Hie away, as fast as you can.'

No doubt but their dependence upon this fellow's vigilance, and upon Betty's, leaves you more
at liberty in your airings, than you would otherwise be. But you are the only person I ever
heard of, who in such circumstances had not some faithful servant to trust little offices to.
A poet, my dear, would not have gone to work for an Angelica, without giving her her Violetta,
her Cleante, her Clelia, or some such pretty-named confidant--an old nurse at the least.

I read to my mother several passages of your letters. But your last paragraph, in your yesterday's
quite charmed her. You have won her heart by it, she told me. And while her fit of gratitude
for it lasted, I was thinking to make my proposal, and to press it with all the earnestness
I could give it, when Hickman came in, making his legs, and stroking his cravat and ruffles.

I could most freely have ruffled him for it. As it was--Sir, said I, saw you not some of the
servants?--Could not one of them have come in before you?

He begged pardon: looked as if he knew not whether he had best keep his ground, or withdraw:--Till
my mother, his fast friend, interposed--Why, Nancy, we are not upon particulars.--Pray, Mr.
Hickman, sit down.

By your le--ave, good Madam, to me. You know his drawl, when his muscles give him the respectful
hesitation.--

Ay, ay, pray sit down, honest man, if you are weary--but by mamma, if you please. I desire
my hoop may have its full circumference. All they're good for, that I know, is to clean dirty
shoes, and to keep fellows at a distance.

Strange girl! cried my mother, displeased; but with a milder turn, ay, ay, Mr. Hickman, sit
down by me: I have no such forbidding folly in my dress.

I looked serious; and in my heart was glad this speech of hers was not made to your uncle Antony.

My mother, with the true widow's freedom, would mighty prudently have led into the subject
we had been upon; and would have had read to him, I question not, that very paragraph in your
letter which is so much in his favour. He was highly obliged to dear Miss Harlowe, she would
assure him; that she did say--

But I asked him, if he had any news by his last letters from London?--A question which he always
understands to be a subject changer; for otherwise I never put it. And so if he be but silent,
I am not angry with him that he answers it not.

I choose not to mention my proposal before him, till I know how it will be relished by my mother.
If it be not well received, perhaps I may employ him on the occasion. Yet I don't like to owe
him an obligation, if I could help it. For men who have his views in their heads, do so parade
it, so strut about, if a woman condescend to employ them in her affairs, that one has no patience
with them.

However, if I find not an opportunity this day, I will make one to-morrow.

I shall not open either of your sealed-up parcels, but in your presence. There is no need.
Your conduct is out of all question with me: and by the extracts you have given me from his
letters and your own, I know all that relates to the present situation of things between you.

I was going to give you a little flippant hint or two. But since you wish to be thought superior
to all our sex in the command of yourself; and since indeed you deserve to be thought so; I
will spare you. You are, however, at times, more than half inclined to speak out. That you
do not, is only owing to a little bashful struggle between you and yourself, as I may say.
When that is quite got over, I know you will favour me undisguisedly with the result.

I cannot forgive your taking upon me (at so extravagant a rate too) to pay my mother's servants.
Indeed I am, and I will be, angry with you for it. A year's wages at once well nigh! only as,
unknown to my mother, I make it better for the servants according to their merits--how it made
the man stare!--And it may be his ruin too, as far as I know. If he should buy a ring, and
marry a sorry body in the neighbourhood with the money, one would be loth, a twelvemonth hence,
that the poor old fellow should think he had reason to wish the bounty never conferred.

I MUST give you your way in these things, you say.--And I know there is no contradicting you:
for you were ever putting too great a value upon little offices done for you, and too little
upon the great ones you do for others. The satisfaction you have in doing so, I grant it, repays
you. But why should you, by the nobleness of your mind, throw reproaches upon the rest of the
world? particularly, upon your own family--and upon ours too?

If, as I have heard you say, it is a good rule to give WORDS the hearing, but to form our judgment
of men and things by DEEDS ONLY; what shall we think of one, who seeks to find palliatives
in words, for narrowness of heart in the very persons her deeds so silently, yet so forcibly,
reflect upon? Why blush you not, my dear friend, to be thus singular?--When you meet with another
person whose mind is like your own, then display your excellencies as you please: but till
then, for pity's sake, let your heart and your spirit suffer a little contradiction.

I intended to write but a few lines; chiefly to let you know your parcels are come safe. And
accordingly I began in a large hand; and I am already come to the end of my second sheet. But
I could write a quire without hesitation upon a subject so copious and so beloved as is your
praise. Not for this single instance of your generosity; since I am really angry with you for
it; but for the benevolence exemplified in the whole tenor of your life and action; of which
this is but a common instance. Heaven direct you, in your own arduous trials, is all I have
room to add; and make you as happy, as you think to be

Your own ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XXXI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY NIGHT, APRIL 2.

I have many new particulars to acquaint you with, that shew a great change in the behaviour
of my friends as I find we have. I will give these particulars to you as they offered.

All the family was at church in the morning. They brought good Dr. Lewen with them, in pursuance
of a previous invitation. And the doctor sent up to desire my permission to attend me in my
own apartment.

You may believe it was easily granted.

So the doctor came up.

We had a conversation of near an hour before dinner: but, to my surprise, he waved every thing
that would have led me to the subject I supposed he wanted to talk about. At last, I asked
him, if it were not thought strange I should be so long absent from church? He made me some
handsome compliments upon it: but said, for his part, he had ever made it a rule to avoid interfering
in the private concerns of families, unless desired to do so.

I was prodigiously disappointed; but supposing that he was thought too just a man to be made
a judge of in this cause; I led no more to it: nor, when he was called down to dinner, did
he take the least notice of leaving me behind him there.

But this was not the first time since my confinement that I thought it a hardship not to dine
below. And when I parted with him on the stairs, a tear would burst its way; and he hurried
down; his own good-natured eyes glistening; for he saw it.--Nor trusted he his voice, lest
the accent I suppose should have discovered his concern; departing in silence; though with
his usual graceful obligingness.

I hear that he praised me, and my part in the conversation that passed between us. To shew
them, I suppose, that it was not upon the interesting subjects which I make no doubt he was
desired not to enter upon.

He left me so dissatisfied, yet so perplexed with this new way of treatment, that I never found
myself so much disconcerted, and out of my train.

But I was to be more so. This was to be a day of puzzle to me. Pregnant puzzle, if I may say
so: for there must great meaning lie behind it.

In the afternoon, all but my brother and sister went to church with the good doctor; who left
his compliments for me. I took a walk in the garden. My brother and sister walked in it too,
and kept me in their eye a good while, on purpose, as I thought, that I might see how gay and
good-humoured they were together. At last they came down the walk that I was coming up, hand-in-hand,
lover-like.

Your servant, Miss--your servant, Sir--passed between my brother and me.

Is it not coldish, Clary! in a kinder voice than usual, said my sister, and stopped.--I stopped
and courtesied low to her half-courtesy.--I think not, Sister, said I.

She went on. I courtesied without return; and proceeded, turning to my poultry-yard.

By a shorter turn, arm-in-arm, they were there before me.

I think, Clary, said my brother, you must present me with some of this breed, for Scotland.

If you please, Brother.

I'll choose for you, said my sister.

And while I fed them, they pointed to half a dozen: yet intending nothing by it, I believe,
but to shew a deal of love and good-humour to each other before me.

My uncles next, (at their return from church) were to do me the honour of their notice. They
bid Betty tell me, they would drink tea with me in my own apartment. Now, thought I, shall
I have the subject of next Tuesday enforced upon me.

But they contradicted the order for tea, and only my uncle Harlowe came up to me.

Half-distant, half-affectionate, at his entering my chamber, was the air he put on to his daughter-niece,
as he used to call me; and I threw myself at his feet, and besought his favour.

None of these discomposures, Child. None of these apprehensions. You will now have every body's
favour. All is coming about, my dear. I was impatient to see you. I could no longer deny myself
this satisfaction. He then raised me, and kissed me, and called me charming creature!

But he waved entering into any interesting subject. All will be well now. All will be right!--No
more complainings! every body loves you!--I only came to make my earliest court to you! [were
his condescending words] and to sit and talk of twenty and twenty fond things, as I used to
do. And let every past disagreeable thing be forgotten; as if nothing had happened.

He understood me as beginning to hint at the disgrace of my confinement--No disgrace my dear
can fall to your lot: your reputation is too well established.--I longed to see you, repeated
me--I have seen nobody half so amiable since I saw you last.

And again he kissed my cheek, my glowing cheek; for I was impatient, I was vexed, to be thus,
as I thought, played upon: And how could I be thankful for a visit, that (it was now evident)
was only a too humble artifice, to draw me in against the next Tuesday, or to leave me inexcusable
to them all?

O my cunning brother!--This is his contrivance. And then my anger made me recollect the triumph
in his and my sister's fondness for each other, as practised before me; and the mingled indignation
flashing from their eyes, as arm-in-arm they spoke to me, and the forced condescension playing
upon their lips, when they called me Clary, and Sister.

Do you think I could, with these reflections, look upon my uncle Harlowe's visit as the favour
he seemed desirous I should think it to be?--Indeed I could not; and seeing him so studiously
avoid all recrimination, as I may call it, I gave into the affectation; and followed him in
his talk of indifferent things: while he seemed to admire this thing and that, as if he had
never seen them before; and now-and then condescendingly kissed the hand that wrought some
of the things he fixed his eyes upon; not so much to admire them, as to find subjects to divert
what was most in his head, and in my heart.

At his going away--How can I leave you here by yourself, my dear? you, whose company used to
enliven us all. You are not expected down indeed: but I protest I had a good mind to surprise
your father and mother!--If I thought nothing would arise that would be disagreeable--My dear!
my love! [O the dear artful gentleman! how could my uncle Harlowe so dissemble?] What say you?
Will you give me your hands? Will you see your father? Can you stand his displeasure, on first
seeing the dear creature who has given him and all of us so much disturbance? Can you promise
future--

He saw me rising in my temper--Nay, my dear, interrupting himself, if you cannot be all resignation,
I would not have you think of it.

