AN INLAND VOYAGE

Contents:
   Preface
   Antwerp to Boom
   On the Willebroek Canal
   The Royal Sport Nautique
   At Maubeuge
   On the Sambre Canalised:  to Quartes
   Pont-sur-Sambre:
      We are Pedlars
      The Travelling Merchant
   On the Sambre Canalised:  to Landrecies
   At Landrecies
   Sambre and Oise Canal:  Canal boats
   The Oise in Flood
   Origny Sainte-Benoite
      A By-day
      The Company at Table
   Down the Oise:  to Moy
   La Fere of Cursed Memory
   Down the Oise:  Through the Golden Valley
   Noyon Cathedral
   Down the Oise:  to Compiegne
   At Compiegne
   Changed Times
   Down the Oise:  Church interiors
   Precy and the Marionnettes
   Back to the world

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

To equip so small a book with a preface is, I am half afraid, to sin against proportion.  But
a preface is more than an author can resist, for it is the reward of his labours.  When the
foundation stone is laid, the architect appears with his plans, and struts for an hour before
the public eye.  So with the writer in his preface: he may have never a word to say, but he
must show himself for a moment in the portico, hat in hand, and with an urbane demeanour.

It is best, in such circumstances, to represent a delicate shade of manner between humility
and superiority:  as if the book had been written by some one else, and you had merely run
over it and inserted what was good.  But for my part I have not yet learned the trick to that
perfection; I am not yet able to dissemble the warmth of my sentiments towards a reader; and
if I meet him on the threshold, it is to invite him in with country cordiality.

To say truth, I had no sooner finished reading this little book in proof, than I was seized
upon by a distressing apprehension.  It occurred to me that I might not only be the first to
read these pages, but the last as well; that I might have pioneered this very smiling tract
of country all in vain, and find not a soul to follow in my steps.  The more I thought, the
more I disliked the notion; until the distaste grew into a sort of panic terror, and I rushed
into this Preface, which is no more than an advertisement for readers.

What am I to say for my book?  Caleb and Joshua brought back from Palestine a formidable bunch
of grapes; alas! my book produces naught so nourishing; and for the matter of that, we live
in an age when people prefer a definition to any quantity of fruit.  I seem to have forgotten
all that makes it glorious to be man.--'Tis an omission that renders the book philosophically
unimportant; but I am in hopes the eccentricity may please in frivolous circles.

To the friend who accompanied me I owe many thanks already, indeed I wish I owed him nothing
else; but at this moment I feel towards him an almost exaggerated tenderness.  He, at least,
will become my reader: --if it were only to follow his own travels alongside of mine.

R.L.S.

ANTWERP TO BOOM

We made a great stir in Antwerp Docks.  A stevedore and a lot of dock porters took up the two
canoes, and ran with them for the slip.  A crowd of children followed cheering.  The Cigarette
went off in a splash and a bubble of small breaking water.  Next moment the Arethusa was after
her.  A steamer was coming down, men on the paddle-box shouted hoarse warnings, the stevedore
and his porters were bawling from the quay.  But in a stroke or two the canoes were away out
in the middle of the Scheldt, and all steamers, and stevedores, and other 'long-shore vanities
were left behind.

The sun shone brightly; the tide was making--four jolly miles an hour; the wind blew steadily,
with occasional squalls.  For my part, I had never been in a canoe under sail in my life; and
my first experiment out in the middle of this big river was not made without some trepidation.
What would happen when the wind first caught my little canvas?  I suppose it was almost as
trying a venture into the regions of the unknown as to publish a first book, or to marry. 
But my doubts were not of long duration; and in five minutes you will not be surprised to learn
that I had tied my sheet.

I own I was a little struck by this circumstance myself; of course, in company with the rest
of my fellow-men, I had always tied the sheet in a sailing-boat; but in so little and crank
a concern as a canoe, and with these charging squalls, I was not prepared to find myself follow
the same principle; and it inspired me with some contemptuous views of our regard for life.
It is certainly easier to smoke with the sheet fastened; but I had never before weighed a comfortable
pipe of tobacco against an obvious risk, and gravely elected for the comfortable pipe.

It was agreeable upon the river.  A barge or two went past laden with hay.  Reeds and willows
bordered the stream; and cattle and grey venerable horses came and hung their mild heads over
the embankment.  Here and there was a pleasant village among trees, with a noisy shipping-yard;
here and there a villa in a lawn.  The wind served us well up the Scheldt and thereafter up
the Rupel; and we were running pretty free when we began to sight the brickyards of Boom, lying
for a long way on the right bank of the river.  The left bank was still green and pastoral,
with alleys of trees along the embankment, and here and there a flight of steps to serve a
ferry, where perhaps there sat a woman with her elbows on her knees, or an old gentleman with
a staff and silver spectacles.  But Boom and its brickyards grew smokier and shabbier with
every minute; until a great church with a clock, and a wooden bridge over the river, indicated
the central quarters of the town.

Boom is not a nice place, and is only remarkable for one thing: that the majority of the inhabitants
have a private opinion that they can speak English, which is not justified by fact.  This gave
a kind of haziness to our intercourse.  As for the Hotel de la Navigation, I think it is the
worst feature of the place.  It boasts of a sanded parlour, with a bar at one end, looking
on the street; and another sanded parlour, darker and colder, with an empty bird-cage and a
tricolour subscription box by way of sole adornment, where we made shift to dine in the company
of three uncommunicative engineer apprentices and a silent bagman.  The food, as usual in Belgium,
was of a nondescript occasional character; indeed I have never been able to detect anything
in the nature of a meal among this pleasing people; they seem to peck and trifle with viands
all day long in an amateur spirit:  tentatively French, truly German, and somehow falling between
the two.

The empty bird-cage, swept and garnished, and with no trace of the old piping favourite, save
where two wires had been pushed apart to hold its lump of sugar, carried with it a sort of
graveyard cheer. The engineer apprentices would have nothing to say to us, nor indeed to the
bagman; but talked low and sparingly to one another, or raked us in the gaslight with a gleam
of spectacles.  For though handsome lads, they were all (in the Scots phrase) barnacled.

There was an English maid in the hotel, who had been long enough out of England to pick up
all sorts of funny foreign idioms, and all sorts of curious foreign ways, which need not here
be specified.  She spoke to us very fluently in her jargon, asked us information as to the
manners of the present day in England, and obligingly corrected us when we attempted to answer.
But as we were dealing with a woman, perhaps our information was not so much thrown away as
it appeared.

ON THE WILLEBROEK CANAL

Next morning, when we set forth on the Willebroek Canal, the rain began heavy and chill.  The
water of the canal stood at about the drinking temperature of tea; and under this cold aspersion,
the surface was covered with steam.  The exhilaration of departure, and the easy motion of
the boats under each stroke of the paddles, supported us through this misfortune while it lasted;
and when the cloud passed and the sun came out again, our spirits went up above the range of
stay-at-home humours.  A good breeze rustled and shivered in the rows of trees that bordered
the canal.  The leaves flickered in and out of the light in tumultuous masses.  It seemed sailing
weather to eye and ear; but down between the banks, the wind reached us only in faint and desultory
puffs.  There was hardly enough to steer by.  Progress was intermittent and unsatisfactory.
A jocular person, of marine antecedents, hailed us from the tow-path with a 'C'est vite, mais
c'est long.'

The canal was busy enough.  Every now and then we met or overtook a long string of boats, with
great green tillers; high sterns with a window on either side of the rudder, and perhaps a
jug or a flower- pot in one of the windows; a dinghy following behind; a woman busied about
the day's dinner, and a handful of children.  These barges were all tied one behind the other
with tow ropes, to the number of twenty-five or thirty; and the line was headed and kept in
motion by a steamer of strange construction.  It had neither paddle-wheel nor screw; but by
some gear not rightly comprehensible to the unmechanical mind, it fetched up over its bow a
small bright chain which lay along the bottom of the canal, and paying it out again over the
stern, dragged itself forward, link by link, with its whole retinue of loaded skows.  Until
one had found out the key to the enigma, there was something solemn and uncomfortable in the
progress of one of these trains, as it moved gently along the water with nothing to mark its
advance but an eddy alongside dying away into the wake.

Of all the creatures of commercial enterprise, a canal barge is by far the most delightful
to consider.  It may spread its sails, and then you see it sailing high above the tree-tops
and the windmill, sailing on the aqueduct, sailing through the green corn-lands:  the most
picturesque of things amphibious.  Or the horse plods along at a foot-pace as if there were
no such thing as business in the world; and the man dreaming at the tiller sees the same spire
on the horizon all day long.  It is a mystery how things ever get to their destination at this
rate; and to see the barges waiting their turn at a lock, affords a fine lesson of how easily
the world may be taken.  There should be many contented spirits on board, for such a life is
both to travel and to stay at home.

There is not enough exercise in such a life for any high measure of health; but a high measure
of health is only necessary for unhealthy people.  The slug of a fellow, who is never ill nor
well, has a quiet time of it in life, and dies all the easier.

I am sure I would rather be a bargee than occupy any position under heaven that required attendance
at an office.  There are few callings, I should say, where a man gives up less of his liberty
in return for regular meals.  The bargee is on shipboard--he is master in his own ship--he
can land whenever he will--he can never be kept beating off a lee-shore a whole frosty night
when the sheets are as hard as iron; and so far as I can make out, time stands as nearly still
with him as is compatible with the return of bed-time or the dinner-hour.  It is not easy to
see why a bargee should ever die.

Half-way between Willebroek and Villevorde, in a beautiful reach of canal like a squire's avenue,
we went ashore to lunch.  There were two eggs, a junk of bread, and a bottle of wine on board
the Arethusa; and two eggs and an Etna cooking apparatus on board the Cigarette.  The master
of the latter boat smashed one of the eggs in the course of disembarkation; but observing pleasantly
that it might still be cooked a la papier, he dropped it into the Etna, in its covering of
Flemish newspaper.  We landed in a blink of fine weather; but we had not been two minutes ashore
before the wind freshened into half a gale, and the rain began to patter on our shoulders.
We sat as close about the Etna as we could.  The spirits burned with great ostentation; the
grass caught flame every minute or two, and had to be trodden out; and before long, there were
several burnt fingers of the party.  But the solid quantity of cookery accomplished was out
of proportion with so much display; and when we desisted, after two applications of the fire,
the sound egg was little more than loo-warm; and as for a la papier, it was a cold and sordid
fricassee of printer's ink and broken egg-shell. We made shift to roast the other two, by putting
them close to the burning spirits; and that with better success.  And then we uncorked the
bottle of wine, and sat down in a ditch with our canoe aprons over our knees.  It rained smartly.
Discomfort, when it is honestly uncomfortable and makes no nauseous pretensions to the contrary,
is a vastly humorous business; and people well steeped and stupefied in the open air are in
a good vein for laughter. From this point of view, even egg a la papier offered by way of food
may pass muster as a sort of accessory to the fun.  But this manner of jest, although it may
be taken in good part, does not invite repetition; and from that time forward, the Etna voyaged
like a gentleman in the locker of the Cigarette.

It is almost unnecessary to mention that when lunch was over and we got aboard again and made
sail, the wind promptly died away.  The rest of the journey to Villevorde, we still spread
our canvas to the unfavouring air; and with now and then a puff, and now and then a spell of
paddling, drifted along from lock to lock, between the orderly trees.

It was a fine, green, fat landscape; or rather a mere green water- lane, going on from village
to village.  Things had a settled look, as in places long lived in.  Crop-headed children spat
upon us from the bridges as we went below, with a true conservative feeling. But even more
conservative were the fishermen, intent upon their floats, who let us go by without one glance.
They perched upon sterlings and buttresses and along the slope of the embankment, gently occupied.
They were indifferent, like pieces of dead nature.  They did not move any more than if they
had been fishing in an old Dutch print.  The leaves fluttered, the water lapped, but they continued
in one stay like so many churches established by law.  You might have trepanned every one of
their innocent heads, and found no more than so much coiled fishing-line below their skulls.
I do not care for your stalwart fellows in india-rubber stockings breasting up mountain torrents
with a salmon rod; but I do dearly love the class of man who plies his unfruitful art, for
ever and a day, by still and depopulated waters.

At the last lock, just beyond Villevorde, there was a lock-mistress who spoke French comprehensibly,
and told us we were still a couple of leagues from Brussels.  At the same place, the rain began
again. It fell in straight, parallel lines; and the surface of the canal was thrown up into
an infinity of little crystal fountains.  There were no beds to be had in the neighbourhood.
Nothing for it but to lay the sails aside and address ourselves to steady paddling in the rain.

