More marvellous are the providences intertwined with the history of the Church.  It was planted
by apostolic men, and numbered heroes like St. Patrick and St. Alban before the missionary
Augustine came to Canterbury.  Through all of its history it has been the Church of the English-speaking
race.  The liturgy contains the purest English of any book, except the English Bible, which
was translated by her sons.  The ritual which Augustine found in England came from the East;
and the liturgy which he introduced was, by the advice of Gregory, taken from many national
Churches.  The Venerable Hooker said: "Our liturgy was must be acknowledged as the singular
work of the providence of God."  In its services it represents the Church of the English-speaking
race.  The exhortation to pray for the child to be baptized, the direction to put pure water
into the font at each baptism, the sign of the cross, the words of the reception of the baptized,
the joining of hands in holy matrimony, the "dust to dust" of the burial,--are peculiar to
the offices of the English-speaking people.  In the Holy Communion, the rubric found in all
western Churches, commanding the priest, after consecration, to kneel and worship the elements,
never found a place in any service-book of the Church of England.  The Book of Common Prayer
has preserved for us Catholic faith and Catholic worship.

The first English missionary priest in America of whose services we have record was Master
Wolfall, who celebrated the Holy Communion in 1578 for the crews of Martin Forbisher on the
shores of Hudson Bay, amid whose solitudes Bishop Horden has won whole heathen tribes to Jesus
Christ. At about the same time the Rev. Martin Fletcher, the chaplain of Sir Francis Drake,
celebrated the Holy Communion in the bay of San Francisco, a prophecy that these distant shores
should become our inheritance.  A few years later (1583), divine service was held in the bay
of St. John's, Newfoundland, for Sir Humphrey Gilbert, and when his ill-fated ship foundered
at sea, the last words of the hero-admiral were, "We are as near heaven by sea as by land."
The mantle of Gilbert fell on Sir Walter Raleigh, who was commissioned by Queen Elizabeth to
bear the evangel of God's love to the New World.  The faith behind the adventures of these
men is seen in a woodcut of Raleigh's vessels at anchor; a pinnace, with a man at the mast-head
bearing a cross, approaching the shore with the message of the Gospel.  To some of us whose
hearts have been touched with pity for the red men, its is a beautiful incident that the first
baptism on these shores was that of an Indian chief, Mateo, on the banks of the Roanoke.  In
May, 1607, the first services on the shore of New England were held by the Rev. Richard Seymour.
Missionary services in the wilderness were not unlike those of our pioneer bishops.  "We did
hang an awning to the trees to shield us from the sun, our walls were rails of wood, our seats
unhewed trees, our pulpit a bar of wood--this was our 'church.'"  It was in this church that
the Rev. Robert Hunt celebrated the first communion in Virginia, June 21, 1607.  The missionary
spirit of the times is seen when Lord De la Warr and his companions went in procession to the
Temple Church in London to receive the Holy Communion.  The Rev. Richard Crashaw said in his
sermon: "Go forward in the strength of the Lord, look not for wealth, look only for the things
of the kingdom of God--you go to win the heathen to the Gospel.  Practise it yourselves.  Make
the name of Christ honorable.  What blessings any nation has had by Christ must be given to
all the nations of the earth."  The first act of Governor De la Warr, on landing in Virginia,
was to kneel in silent prayer, and then, with the whole people, they went to church, where
the services were conducted by the Rev. Richard Burke.  In 1611 the saintly Alexander Whittaker
baptized Pocahontas.  Disease and death often blighted the colonies, and yet the old battle
cry rang out--"God will found the State and build the Church."  The work was marred by immoral
adventurers, and it was not until these were repressed with a strong hand by Sir Thomas Dale
that a new life dawned in Virginia.

The first elective assembly of the New World met in 1619.  It was opened by prayer.  Its first
enactment was to protect the Indians from oppression.  Its next was to found a university.
In the first legislative assembly which met in the choir of the Church in Jamestown, more than
one year before the Mayflower left the shores of England, was the foundation of popular government
in America.  Time would fail me to tell the story inwrought in the lives of men like Rev. William
Clayton of Philadelphia, the Rev. Atkin Williamson of South Carolina, and the Rev. John Wesley
and the Rev. George Whitefield, also sons of the Church in Georgia.

The Church of England had no rights in the English colony of Massachusetts.  The Rev. William
Blaxton, the Rev. Richard Gibson, and the Rev. Robert Jordan endured privation and suffering,
and were accused "as addicted to the hierarchy of the Church of England," "guilty of offence
against the Commonwealth by baptizing children on the Lord's Day," and "the more heinous sin
of provoking the people to revolt by questioning the divine right of the New England theocracy."
An new life dawned on the Church in America when, in 1701, there was organized in England "The
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts."  It awakened a new missionary
spirit.  Princess Anne, afterward Queen of England, became its lifelong patron.  The blessed
work among the Mohawks was largely due to her, and when these Indians were removed to Canada
and left sheperdless, their chief, Joseph Brant, officiated as lay reader for twenty years.
The men sent out by the society--the Rev. Samuel Thomas, the Rev. George Keith, the Rev. Patrick
Gordon, the Rev. John Talbot, and others--were Christian heroes.  No fact in the history of
the colonial Church had so marked influence as the conversion of Timothy Cutler, James Wetmore,
Samuel Johnson, and Daniel Brown to the Church.  Puritans mourned that the "gold had become
dim."  Churchmen rejoiced that some of the foremost scholars in Connecticut had returned to
the Church.  I pass over the trials of the Church in the eighteenth century, to the meeting
of the Continental Congress in 1774.  It was proposed to open Congress with prayer.  Objections
were made on account of the religious differences of the delegates.  Old Samuel Adams arose,
with his white hair streaming on his shoulders,--the same earnest Puritan who, in 1768, had
written to England:   "We hope in God that no such establishment as the Protestant episcopate
shall ever take place in America,"--and said: "Gentlemen, shall it be said that it is possible
that there can be any religious differences which will prevent men from crying to that God
who alone can save them?  I move that the Rev. Dr. Duche`, minister of Christ Church in this
city, be asked to open this Congress with prayer."  John Adams, writing to his wife, said:
"Never can I forget that scene.  There were twenty Quakers standing by my side, and we were
all bathed in tears."  When the Psalms for the day were read, it seemed as if Heaven was pleading
for the oppressed: "O Lord, fight thou against them that fight against me."  "Lord, who is
like Thee to defend the poor and the needy?"  "Avenge thou my cause, my Lord, my God."  On
the 4th of July 1776, Congress published to the world that these colonies were, and of right
ought to be, free.  We believe that a majority of those who signed this declaration were sons
of the Church. The American colonists were not rebels; they were loyal, God-fearing men.  The
first appeal that Congress made to the colonies was "for the whole people to keep one and the
same day as a day of fasting and prayer for the restoration of the invaded rights of America,
and reconciliation with the parent State."  They stood for their inalienable rights, guaranteed
to them by the Magna Charta, which nobles, headed by Bishop Stephen Langton, had wrung from
King John.  The English clergy had at ordination taken an oath of allegiance to the British
Crown.  Many who sympathized with their oppressed country felt bound to pray for King George
until another government was permanently established.  Others, like Dr. Provost, retired to
private life.  For two hundred years an Episcopal Church had no resident Bishop.  No child
of the Church received confirmation.  No one could take orders without crossing the Atlantic,
where one man in five lost his life by disease or shipwreck. At one time the Rev. William White
was the only clergyman of the Church in Pennsylvania.  Even after we  had received the episcopate,
the outlook was so hopeless that one of her bishops said, "I am willing to do all I can for
the rest of my days, but there will be no such Church when I am gone."  When William Meade
told Chief Justice Marshall that he was to take orders in the Episcopal Church, the Chief Justice
said, "I thought that this Church had perished in the Revolution."  Of the less than two hundred
clergy, many had returned to England or retired to private life.  In some of the colonies the
endowments of the Church had been confiscated.  There was no discipline for clergy or laity,
and it did seem as if the vine of the Lord's planting was to perish out of the land.

On the Feast of the Annunciation, 1783, ten of the clergy of Connecticut met in the glebe house
at Woodbury to elect a bishop.  They met privately, for the Church was under the ban of civil
authority, and they feared the revival of bitter opposition to an American episcopate which
might alarm the English bishops and defeat their efforts.  They did not come to make a creed,
or frame a liturgy, or found a Church.  They met to secure that which was lacking for the complete
organization of the Church, and thus perpetuate for their country that ministry whose continuity
was witnessed through all the ages in a living body, which is the body of Christ.  I know of
no greater heroism than that which sent Samuel Seabury to ask of the bishops of the Church
of England the episcopate for the scattered flock of Christ.  You remember the fourteen months'
weary waiting, and when his prayer was refused in England, God led him to the persecuted Church
of Scotland.  Now go with me to Aberdeen; it is an upper room, a congregation of clergy and
laity are present.  The bishops and Robert Kilgour, Bishop of Aberdeen, Arthur Petrie, Bishop
of Moray, and John Skinner, Coadjutor Bishop of Aberdeen, who preached the sermon.  The prayers
were ended; Samuel Seabury, a kingly man, kneels for the imposition of apostolic hands, and,
according to the godly usage of the Catholic Church, is consecrated bishop, and made the first
apostle for the New World.  None can tell what, under God, we owe to those venerable men. 
They signed a concordat binding themselves and successors to use the Prayer of Invocation in
the Scottish Communion Office, which sets forth that truth which is inwrought in all the teachings
of our blessed Lord and His apostles, that the communion of the Body and Blood of Christ is
limited to the worthy receiver of this blessed sacrament.  The consecration of Seabury touched
the heart of the English Church.

In 1783 the Church of England did not have one bishop beyond its shores. There are to-day fifteen
bishops in Africa, six in China and Japan, and twenty-three in Australia and the Pacific Islands,
ten in India, seven in the West Indies, and eighty-five in British North America and the United
States.  Every colony of the British Empire and every State and Territory of the United States
has its own bishop, except the Territory of Alaska.

On February 4th, 1787, the Rev. Dr. Samuel Provost, D.D., were consecrated bishops in Lambeth
Chapel, by John Moore, Archbishop of Canterbury, William Markham, Archbishop of York, Charles
Moss, Bishop of Bath and Wells, and John Hinchcliffe, Bishop of Peterborough.  The sermon was
preached by the chaplain of the primate.  Our minister to England, Hon. John Adams, urged the
application of Drs. Provost and White, and in after years wrote: "There is no part of my life
I look back with more satisfaction than the part I took--daring and hazardous as it was to
myself and mine--in the introduction of episcopacy to America." Samuel Provost was a devoted
patriot and one of the ripest scholars of America.  In the convention which elected him Bishop
of New York were John Jay, Washington's chief justice, Marinus Willet, one of Washington's
favorite generals, James Duane, John Alsop, R.R. Livingston, and William Duer, members of the
Continental Congress, and David Brooks, commissary-general of the Revolution, and personal
friend of Washington.  If less prominent in his episcopal administration, Bishop Provost's
name as a patriot was a tower of strength to the infant Church.

Of Bishop White we can say, as John Adams said of Roger Sherman, "He was pure as an angel and
firm as Mount Atlas."  He was beloved and reverenced by all Christian people.  When Congress
declared the colonies independent States in 1776, he at once took the oath of allegiance to
the new government.  When a friend warned him that he had put his neck in a halter, he replied:
"I know the danger; the cause is just; I have put my faith in God."  In 1777 he was elected
chaplain of Congress, and held the office (except when Congress met in New York) until the
capital was removed to Washington.  Francis Hopkinson, a distinguished signer of the Declaration
of Independence, and other loyal sons of the country, were among those who elected him Bishop
of Pennsylvania.

