"Well, my lord.--In the Sanctuary at Whitefriars--a place of refuge so unsuitable to a young
man of quality and character--I am told a murder was committed."

"And you believe that I did the deed, I suppose?"

"God forbid, my lord!" said Heriot. "The coroner's inquest hath sat, and it appeared that your
lordship, under your assumed name of Grahame, behaved with the utmost bravery."

"No compliment, I pray you," said Nigel; "I am only too happy to find, that I did not murder,
or am not believed to have murdered, the old man."

"True, my lord, said Heriot; "but even in this affair there lacks explanation. Your lordship
embarked this morning in a wherry with a female, and, it is said, an immense sum of money,
in specie and other valuables--but the woman has not since been heard of."

"I parted with her at Paul's Wharf," said Nigel, "where she went ashore with her charge. I
gave her a letter to that very man, John Christie."

"Ay, that is the waterman's story; but John Christie denies that he remembers anything of the
matter."

"I am sorry to hear this," said the young nobleman; "I hope in Heaven she has not been trepanned,
for the treasure she had with her."

"I hope not, my lord," replied Heriot; "but men's minds are much disturbed about it. Our national
character suffers on all hands. Men remember the fatal case of Lord Sanquhar, hanged for the
murder of a fencing-master; and exclaim, they will not have their wives whored, and their property
stolen, by the nobility of Scotland."

"And all this is laid to my door!" said Nigel; "my exculpation is easy."

"I trust so, my lord," said Heriot;--"nay, in this particular, I do not doubt it.--But why
did you leave Whitefriars under such circumstances?"

"Master Reginald Lowestoffe sent a boat for me, with intimation to provide for my safety."

"I am sorry to say," replied Heriot, "that he denies all knowledge of your lordship's motions,
after having dispatched a messenger to you with some baggage."

"The watermen told me they were employed by him."

"Watermen!" said Heriot; "one of these proves to be an idle apprentice, an old acquaintance
of mine--the other has escaped; but the fellow who is in custody persists in saying he was
employed by your lordship, and you only."

"He lies!" said Lord Glenvarloch, hastily;--"He told me Master Lowestoffe had sent him.--I
hope that kind-hearted gentleman is at liberty?"

"He is," answered Heriot; "and has escaped with a rebuke from the benchers, for interfering
in such a matter as your lordship's. The Court desire to keep well with the young Templars
in these times of commotion, or he had not come off so well."

"That is the only word of comfort I have heard from you," replied Nigel. "But this poor woman,--she
and her trunk were committed to the charge of two porters."

"So said the pretended waterman; but none of the fellows who ply at the wharf will acknowledge
the employment.--I see the idea makes you uneasy, my lord; but every effort is made to discover
the poor woman's place of retreat--if, indeed, she yet lives.--And now, my lord, my errand
is spoken, so far as it relates exclusively to your lordship; what remains, is matter of business
of a more formal kind."

"Let us proceed to it without delay," said Lord Glenvarloch. "I would hear of the affairs of
any one rather than of my own."

"You cannot have forgotten, my lord," said Heriot, "the transaction which took place some weeks
since at Lord Huntinglen's--by which a large sum of money was advanced for the redemption of
your lordship's estate?"

"I remember it perfectly," said Nigel; "and your present austerity cannot make me forget your
kindness on the occasion."

Heriot bowed gravely, and went on.--"That money was advanced under the expectation and hope
that it might be replaced by the contents of a grant to your lordship, under the royal sign-manual,
in payment of certain monies due by the crown to your father.--I trust your lordship understood
the transaction at the time--I trust you now understand my resumption of its import, and hold
it to be correct?"

"Undeniably correct," answered Lord Glenvarloch. "If the sums contained in the warrant cannot
be recovered, my lands become the property of those who paid off the original holders of the
mortgage, and now stand in their right."

"Even so, my lord," said Heriot. "And your lordship's unhappy circumstances having, it would
seem, alarmed these creditors, they are now, I am sorry to say, pressing for one or other of
these alternatives--possession of the land, or payment of their debt."

"They have a right to one or other," answered Lord Glenvarloch; "and as I cannot do the last
in my present condition, I suppose they must enter on possession."

"Stay, my lord," replied Heriot; "if you have ceased to call me a friend to your person, at
least you shall see I am willing to be such to your father's house, were it but for the sake
of your father's memory. If you will trust me with the warrant under the sign-manual, I believe
circumstances do now so stand at Court, that I may be able to recover the money for you."

"I would do so gladly," said Lord Glenvarloch, "but the casket which contains it is not in
my possession. It was seized when I was arrested at Greenwich."

"It will be no longer withheld from you," said Heriot; "for, I understand, my Master's natural
good sense, and some information which he has procured, I know not how, has induced him to
contradict the whole charge of the attempt on his person. It is entirely hushed up; and you
will only be proceeded against for your violence on Lord Dalgarno, committed within the verge
of the Palace--and that you will find heavy enough to answer."

"I will not shrink under the weight," said Lord Glenvarloch. "But that is not the present point.--If
I had that casket--"

"Your baggage stood in the little ante-room, as I passed," said the citizen; "the casket caught
my eye. I think you had it of me. It was my old friend Sir Faithful Frugal's. Ay; he, too,
had a son--"

Here he stopped short.

"A son who, like Lord Glenvarloch's, did no credit to his father.--Was it not so you would
have ended the sentence, Master Heriot?" asked the young nobleman.

"My lord, it was a word spoken rashly," answered Heriot. "God may mend all in his own good
time. This, however, I will say, that I have sometimes envied my friends their fair and flourishing
families; and yet have I seen such changes when death has removed the head, so many rich men's
sons penniless, the heirs of so many knights and nobles acreless, that I think mine own estate
and memory, as I shall order it, has a fair chance of outliving those of greater men, though
God has given me no heir of my name. But this is from the purpose.--Ho! warder, bring in Lord
Glenvarloch's baggage." The officer obeyed. Seals had been placed upon the trunk and casket,
but were now removed, the warder said, in consequence of the subsequent orders from Court,
and the whole was placed at the prisoner's free disposal.

Desirous to bring this painful visit to a conclusion, Lord Glenvarloch opened the casket, and
looked through the papers which it contained, first hastily, and then more slowly and accurately;
but it was all in vain. The Sovereign's signed warrant had disappeared.

"I thought and expected nothing better," said George Heriot, bitterly. "The beginning of evil
is the letting out of water. Here is a fair heritage lost, I dare say, on a foul cast at dice,
or a conjuring trick at cards!--My lord, your surprise is well played. I give you full joy
of your accomplishments. I have seen many as young brawlers and spendthrifts, but never as
young and accomplished a dissembler.-- Nay, man, never bend your angry brows on me. I speak
in bitterness of heart, from what I remember of your worthy father; and if his son hears of
his degeneracy from no one else, he shall hear it from the old goldsmith."

This new suspicion drove Nigel to the very extremity of his patience; yet the motives and zeal
of the good old man, as well as the circumstances of suspicion which created his displeasure,
were so excellent an excuse for it, that they formed an absolute curb on the resentment of
Lord Glenvarloch, and constrained him, after two or three hasty exclamations, to observe a
proud and sullen silence. At length, Master Heriot resumed his lecture.

"Hark you, my lord," he said, "it is scarce possible that this most important paper can be
absolutely assigned away. Let me know in what obscure corner, and for what petty sum, it lies
pledged--something may yet be done."

"Your efforts in my favour are the more generous," said Lord Glenvarloch, "as you offer them
to one whom you believe you have cause to think hardly of--but they are altogether unavailing.
Fortune has taken the field against me at every point. Even let her win the battle."

"Zouns!" exclaimed Heriot, impatiently,--"you would make a saint swear! Why, I tell you, if
this paper, the loss of which seems to sit so light on you, be not found, farewell to the fair
lordship of Glenvarloch--firth and forest--lea and furrow--lake and stream--all that has been
in the house of Olifaunt since the days of William the Lion!"

"Farewell to them, then," said Nigel,--"and that moan is soon made."

"'Sdeath! my lord, you will make more moan for it ere you die," said Heriot, in the same tone
of angry impatience.

"Not I, my old friend," said Nigel. "If I mourn, Master Heriot, it will be for having lost
the good opinion of a worthy man, and lost it, as I must say, most undeservedly."

"Ay, ay, young man," said Heriot, shaking his head, "make me believe that if you can.--To sum
the matter up," he said, rising from his seat, and walking towards that occupied by the disguised
female, "for our matters are now drawn into small compass, you shall as soon make me believe
that this masquerading mummer, on whom I now lay the hand of paternal authority, is a French
page, who understands no English."

So saying, he took hold of the supposed page's cloak, and, not without some gentle degree of
violence, led into the middle of the apartment the disguised fair one, who in vain attempted
to cover her face, first with her mantle, and afterwards with her hands; both which impediments
Master Heriot removed something unceremoniously, and gave to view the detected daughter of
the old chronologist, his own fair god-daughter, Margaret Ramsay.

"Here is goodly gear!" he said; and, as he spoke, he could not prevent himself from giving
her a slight shake, for we have elsewhere noticed that he was a severe disciplinarian.--"How
comes it, minion, that I find you in so shameless a dress, and so unworthy a situation? Nay,
your modesty is now mistimed--it should have come sooner. Speak, or I will--"

"Master Heriot," said Lord Glenvarloch, "whatever right you may have over this maiden elsewhere,
while in my apartment she is under my protection."

"Your protection, my lord!--a proper protector!--and how long, mistress, have you been under
my lord's protection? Speak out forsooth!"

"For the matter of two hours, godfather," answered the maiden, with a countenance bent to the
ground, and covered with blushes, "but it was against my will."

"Two hours!" repeated Heriot,--"space enough for mischief.--My lord, this is, I suppose, another
victim offered to your character of gallantry--another adventure to be boasted of at Beaujeu's
ordinary? Methinks the roof under which you first met this silly maiden should have secured
her, at least, from such a fate."

"On my honour, Master Heriot," said Lord Glenvarloch, "you remind me now, for the first time,
that I saw this young lady in your family. Her features are not easily forgotten, and yet I
was trying in vain to recollect where I had last looked on them. For your suspicions, they
are as false as they are injurious both to her and me. I had but discovered her disguise as
you entered. I am satisfied, from her whole behaviour, that her presence here in this dress
was involuntary; and God forbid that I have been capable of taking advantage of it to her prejudice."

"It is well mouthed, my lord," said Master Heriot; "but a cunning clerk can read the Apocrypha
as loud as the Scripture. Frankly, my lord, you are come to that pass, where your words will
not be received without a warrant."

"I should not speak, perhaps," said Margaret, the natural vivacity of whose temper could never
be long suppressed by any situation, however disadvantageous, "but I cannot be silent. Godfather,
you do me wrong-- and no less wrong to this young nobleman. You say his words want a warrant.
I know where to find a warrant for some of them, and the rest I deeply and devoutly believe
without one."

"And I thank you, maiden," replied Nigel, "for the good opinion you have expressed. I am at
that point, it seems, though how I have been driven to it I know not, where every fair construction
of my actions and motives is refused me. I am the more obliged to her who grants me that right
which the world denies me. For you, lady, were I at liberty, I have a sword and arm should
know how to guard your reputation."

"Upon my word, a perfect Amadis and Oriana!" said George Heriot. "I should soon get my throat
cut betwixt the knight and the princess, I suppose, but that the beef-eaters are happily within
halloo.--Come, come, Lady Light-o'-Love--if you mean to make your way with me, it must be by
plain facts, not by speeches from romaunts and play-books. How, in Heaven's name, came you here?"

"Sir," answered Margaret, "since I must speak, I went to Greenwich this morning with Monna
Paula, to present a petition to the king on the part of the Lady Hermione."

"Mercy-a-gad!" exclaimed Heriot, "is she in the dance, too? Could she not have waited my return
to stir in her affairs? But I suppose the intelligence I sent her had rendered her restless.
Ah! woman, woman-- he that goes partner with you, had need of a double share of patience, for
you will bring none into the common stock.--Well, but what on earth had this embassy of Monna
Paula's to do with your absurd disguise? Speak out."

"Monna Paula was frightened," answered Margaret, "and did not know how to set about the errand,
for you know she scarce ever goes out of doors--and so--and so--I agreed to go with her to
give her courage; and, for the dress, I am sure you remember I wore it at a Christmas mumming,
and you thought it not unbeseeming."

"Yes, for a Christmas parlour," said Heriot, "but not to go a-masking
through the country in. I do remember it, minion, and I knew it even
now; that and your little shoe there, linked with a hint I had in the
morning from a friend, or one who called himself such, led to your
detection."--Here Lord Glenvarloch could not help giving a glance at
the pretty foot, which even the staid citizen thought worth
recollection--it was but a glance, for he saw how much the least
degree of observation added to Margaret's distress and confusion. "And
tell me, maiden," continued Master Heriot, for what we have observed
was by-play,--"did the Lady Hermione know of this fair work?"
 "I dared not have told her for the world," said Margaret--"she
thought one of our apprentices went with Monna Paula."

It may be here noticed, that the words, "our apprentices," seemed to have in them something
of a charm to break the fascination with which Lord Glenvarloch had hitherto listened to the
broken, yet interesting details of Margaret's history.

"And wherefore went he not?--he had been a fitter companion for Monna Paula than you, I wot,"
said the citizen.

"He was otherwise employed," said Margaret, in a voice scarce audible.

Master George darted a hasty glance at Nigel, and when he saw his features betoken no consciousness,
he muttered to himself,--"It must be better than I feared.--And so this cursed Spaniard, with
her head full, as they all have, of disguises, trap-doors, rope-ladders, and masks, was jade
and fool enough to take you with her on this wild goose errand?--And how sped you, I pray?"

"Just as we reached the gate of the Park," replied Margaret, "the cry of treason was raised.
I know not what became of Monna, but I ran till I fell into the arms of a very decent serving-man,
called Linklater; and I was fain to tell him I was your god-daughter, and so he kept the rest
of them from me, and got me to speech of his Majesty, as I entreated him to do."

"It is the only sign you showed in the whole matter that common sense had not utterly deserted
your little skull," said Heriot.

"His Majesty," continued the damsel, "was so gracious as to receive me alone, though the courtiers
cried out against the danger to his person, and would have searched me for arms, God help me,
but the king forbade it. I fancy he had a hint from Linklater how the truth stood with me."

"Well, maiden, I ask not what passed," said Heriot; "it becomes not me to pry into my Master's
secrets. Had you been closeted with his grandfather the Red Tod of Saint Andrews, as Davie
Lindsay used to call him, by my faith, I should have had my own thoughts of the matter; but
our Master, God bless him, is douce and temperate, and Solomon in every thing, save in the
chapter of wives and concubines."

"I know not what you mean, sir," answered Margaret. "His Majesty was most kind and compassionate,
but said I must be sent hither, and that the Lieutenant's lady, the Lady Mansel, would have
a charge of me, and see that I sustained no wrong; and the king promised to send me in a tilted
barge, and under conduct of a person well known to you; and thus I come to be in the Tower."

"But how, or why, in this apartment, nymph?" said George Heriot-- "Expound that to me, for
I think the riddle needs reading."

"I cannot explain it, sir, further, than that the Lady Mansel sent me here, in spite of my
earnest prayers, tears, and entreaties. I was not afraid of any thing, for I knew I should
be protected. But I could have died then--could die now--for very shame and confusion!"

"Well, well, if your tears are genuine," said Heriot, "they may the sooner wash out the memory
of your fault--Knows your father aught of this escape of yours?"

"I would not for the world he did," replied she; "he believes me with the Lady Hermione."

"Ay, honest Davy can regulate his horologes better than his family.-- Come, damsel, now I will
escort you back to the Lady Mansel, and pray her, of her kindness, that when she is again trusted
with a goose, she will not give it to the fox to keep.--The warders will let us pass to my
lady's lodgings, I trust."

"Stay but one moment," said Lord Glenvarloch. "Whatever hard opinion you may have formed of
me, I forgive you, for time will show that you do me wrong; and you yourself, I think, will
be the first to regret the injustice you have done me. But involve not in your suspicions this
young person, for whose purity of thought angels themselves should be vouchers. I have marked
every look, every gesture; and whilst I can draw breath, I shall ever think of her with--"

"Think not at all of her, my lord," answered George Heriot,
interrupting him; "it is, I have a notion, the best favour you can do
her;--or think of her as the daughter of Davy Ramsay, the clockmaker,
no proper subject for fine speeches, romantic adventures, or high-
flown Arcadian compliments. I give you god-den, my lord. I think not
altogether so harshly as my speech may have spoken. If I can help--
that is, if I saw my way clearly through this labyrinth--but it avails
not talking now. I give your lordship god-den.--Here, warder! Permit
us to pass to the Lady Hansel's apartment." The warder said he must
have orders from the Lieutenant; and as he retired to procure them,
the parties remained standing near each other, but without speaking,
and scarce looking at each other save by stealth, a situation which,
in two of the party at least, was sufficiently embarrassing. The
difference of rank, though in that age a consideration so serious,
could not prevent Lord Glenvarloch from seeing that Margaret Ramsay
was one of the prettiest young women he had ever beheld--from
suspecting, he could scarce tell why, that he himself was not
indifferent to her--from feeling assured that he had been the cause of
much of her present distress--admiration, self-love, and generosity,
acting in favour of the same object; and when the yeoman returned with
permission to his guests to withdraw, Nigel's obeisance to the
beautiful daughter of the mechanic was marked with an expression,
which called up in her cheeks as much colour as any incident of the
eventful day had hitherto excited. She returned the courtesy timidly
and irresolutely--clung to her godfather's arm, and left the
apartment, which, dark as it was, had never yet appeared so obscure to
Nigel, as when the door closed behind her.
                   Ballad of Jemmy Dawson.

Master George Heriot and his ward, as she might justly be termed, for his affection to Margaret
imposed on him all the cares of a guardian, were ushered by the yeoman of the guard to the
lodging of the Lieutenant, where they found him seated with his lady. They were received by
both with that decorous civility which Master Heriot's character and supposed influence demanded,
even at the hand of a punctilious old soldier and courtier like Sir Edward Mansel. Lady Mansel
received Margaret with like courtesy, and informed Master George that she was now only her
guest, and no longer her prisoner.

"She is at liberty," she said, "to return to her friends under your charge--such is his Majesty's
pleasure."

"I am glad of it, madam," answered Heriot, "but only I could have wished her freedom had taken
place before her foolish interview with that singular young man; and I marvel your ladyship
permitted it."

"My good Master Heriot," said Sir Edward, "we act according to the commands of one better and
wiser than ourselves--our orders from his Majesty must be strictly and literally obeyed; and
I need not say that the wisdom of his Majesty doth more than ensure--"

"I know his Majesty's wisdom well," said Heriot; "yet there is an old proverb about fire and
flax--well, let it pass."

"I see Sir Mungo Malagrowther stalking towards the door of the lodging," said the Lady Mansel,
"with the gait of a lame crane--it is his second visit this morning."

"He brought the warrant for discharging Lord Glenvarloch of the charge of treason," said Sir
Edward.

"And from him," said Heriot, "I heard much of what had befallen; for I came from France only
late last evening, and somewhat unexpectedly."

As they spoke, Sir Mungo entered the apartment--saluted the Lieutenant of the Tower and his
lady with ceremonious civility--honoured George Heriot with a patronising nod of acknowledgment,
and accosted Margaret with--"Hey! my young charge, you have not doffed your masculine attire yet?"

"She does not mean to lay it aside, Sir Mungo," said Heriot, speaking loud, "until she has
had satisfaction from you, for betraying her disguise to me, like a false knight--and in very
deed, Sir Mungo, I think when you told me she was rambling about in so strange a dress, you
might have said also that she was under Lady Mansel's protection."

"That was the king's secret, Master Heriot," said Sir Mungo, throwing himself into a chair
with an air of atrabilarious importance; "the other was a well-meaning hint to yourself, as
the girl's friend."

"Yes," replied Heriot, "it was done like yourself--enough told to make me unhappy about her--not
a word which could relieve my uneasiness."

"Sir Mungo will not hear that remark," said the lady; "we must change the subject.--Is there
any news from Court, Sir Mungo? you have been to Greenwich?"

"You might as well ask me, madam," answered the Knight, "whether there is any news from hell."

"How, Sir Mungo, how!" said Sir Edward, "measure your words something better--You speak of
the Court of King James."

"Sir Edward, if I spoke of the court of the twelve Kaisers, I would say it is as confused for
the present as the infernal regions. Courtiers of forty years' standing, and such I may write
myself, are as far to seek in the matter as a minnow in the Maelstrom. Some folk say the king
has frowned on the Prince--some that the Prince has looked grave on the duke--some that Lord
Glenvarloch will be hanged for high treason--and some that there is matter against Lord Dalgarno
that may cost him as much as his head's worth."

"And what do you, that are a courtier of forty years' standing, think of it all?" said Sir
Edward Mansel.

"Nay, nay, do not ask him, Sir Edward," said the lady, with an expressive look to her husband.

"Sir Mungo is too witty," added Master Heriot, "to remember that he who says aught that may
be repeated to his own prejudice, does but load a piece for any of the company to shoot him
dead with, at their pleasure and convenience."

"What!" said the bold Knight, "you think I am afraid of the trepan? Why now, what if I should
say that Dalgarno has more wit than honesty,--the duke more sail than ballast,--the Prince
more pride than prudence,--and that the king--" The Lady Mansel held up her finger in a warning
manner--"that the king is my very good master, who has given me, for forty years and more,
dog's wages, videlicit, bones and beating.--Why now, all this is said, and Archie Armstrong
[Footnote: The celebrated Court jester.] says worse than this of the best of them every day."

"The more fool he," said George Heriot; "yet he is not so utterly wrong, for folly is his best
wisdom. But do not you, Sir Mungo, set your wit against a fool's, though he be a court fool."

"A fool, said you?" replied Sir Mungo, not having fully heard what Master Heriot said, or not
choosing to have it thought so,--"I have been a fool indeed, to hang on at a close-fisted Court
here, when men of understanding and men of action have been making fortunes in every other
place of Europe. But here a man comes indifferently off unless he gets a great key to turn,"
(looking at Sir Edward,) "or can beat tattoo with a hammer on a pewter plate.--Well, sirs,
I must make as much haste back on mine errand as if I were a fee'd messenger.--Sir Edward and
my lady, I leave my commendations with you--and my good- will with you, Master Heriot--and
for this breaker of bounds, if you will act by my counsel, some maceration by fasting, and
a gentle use of the rod, is the best cure for her giddy fits."

"If you propose for Greenwich, Sir Mungo," said the Lieutenant, "I can spare you the labour--the
king comes immediately to Whitehall."

"And that must be the reason the council are summoned to meet in such hurry," said Sir Mungo.
"Well--I will, with your permission, go to the poor lad Glenvarloch, and bestow some comfort
on him."

The Lieutenant seemed to look up, and pause for a moment as if in doubt.

"The lad will want a pleasant companion, who can tell him the nature of the punishment which
he is to suffer, and other matters of concernment. I will not leave him until I show him how
absolutely he hath ruined himself from feather to spur, how deplorable is his present state,
and how small his chance of mending it."

"Well, Sir Mungo," replied the Lieutenant, "if you really think all this likely to be very
consolatory to the party concerned, I will send a warder to conduct you."

"And I," said George Heriot, "will humbly pray of Lady Mansel, that she will lend some of her
handmaiden's apparel to this giddy-brained girl; for I shall forfeit my reputation if I walk
up Tower Hill with her in that mad guise--and yet the silly lassie looks not so ill in it neither."

"I will send my coach with you instantly," said the obliging lady.

"Faith, madam, and if you will honour us by such courtesy, I will gladly accept it at your
hands," said the citizen, "for business presses hard on me, and the forenoon is already lost,
to little purpose."

The coach being ordered accordingly, transported the worthy citizen and his charge to his mansion
in Lombard Street. There he found his presence was anxiously expected by the Lady Hermione,
who had just received an order to be in readiness to attend upon the Royal Privy Council in
the course of an hour; and upon whom, in her inexperience of business, and long retirement
from society and the world, the intimation had made as deep an impression as if it had not
been the necessary consequence of the petition which she had presented to the king by Monna
Paula. George Heriot gently blamed her for taking any steps in an affair so important until
his return from France, especially as he had requested her to remain quiet, in a letter which
accompanied the evidence he had transmitted to her from Paris. She could only plead in answer
the influence which her immediately stirring in the matter was likely to have on the affair
of her kinsman Lord Glenvarloch, for she was ashamed to acknowledge how much she had been gained
on by the eager importunity of her youthful companion. The motive of Margaret's eagerness was,
of course, the safety of Nigel; but we must leave it to time to show in what particulars that
came to be connected with the petition of the Lady Hermione. Meanwhile, we return to the visit
with which Sir Mungo Malagrowther favoured the afflicted young nobleman in his place of captivity.

The Knight, after the usual salutations, and having prefaced his discourse with a great deal
of professed regret for Nigel's situation, sat down beside him, and composing his grotesque
features into the most lugubrious despondence, began his raven song as follows:--

"I bless God, my lord, that I was the person who had the pleasure to bring his Majesty's mild
message to the Lieutenant, discharging the higher prosecution against ye, for any thing meditated
against his Majesty's sacred person; for, admit you be prosecuted on the lesser offence, or
breach of privilege of the Palace and its precincts, usque ad mutilationem, even to dismemberation,
as it is most likely you will, yet the loss of a member is nothing to being hanged and drawn
quick, after the fashion of a traitor."

"I should feel the shame of having deserved such a punishment," answered Nigel, "more than
the pain of undergoing it."

"Doubtless, my lord, the having, as you say, deserved it, must be an excruciation to your own
mind," replied his tormentor; "a kind of mental and metaphysical hanging, drawing, and quartering,
which may be in some measure equipollent with the external application of hemp, iron, fire,
and the like, to the outer man."

"I say, Sir Mungo," repeated Nigel, "and beg you to understand my words, that I am unconscious
of any error, save that of having arms on my person when I chanced to approach that of my Sovereign."

"Ye are right, my lord, to acknowledge nothing," said Sir Mungo. "We have an old proverb,--Confess,
and--so forth. And indeed, as to the weapons, his Majesty has a special ill-will at all arms
whatsoever, and more especially pistols; but, as I said, there is an end of that matter. [Footnote:
Wilson informs us that when Colonel Grey, a Scotsman who affected the buff dress even in the
time of peace, appeared in that military garb at Court, the king, seeing him with a case of
pistols at his girdle, which he never greatly liked, told him, merrily, "he was now so fortified,
that, if he were but well victualled, he would be impregnable."--WILSON'S Life and Reign of
James VI., apud KENNET'S History of England, vol. ii. p. 389. In 1612, the tenth year of James's
reign, there was a rumour abroad that a shipload of pocket-pistols had been exported from Spain,
with a view to a general massacre of the Protestants. Proclamations were of consequence sent
forth, prohibiting all persons from carrying pistols under a foot long in the barrel. Ibid.
p. 690.] I wish you as well through the next, which is altogether unlikely."

"Surely, Sir Mungo," answered Nigel, "you yourself might say something in my favour concerning
the affair in the Park. None knows better than you that I was at that moment urged by wrongs
of the most heinous nature, offered to me by Lord Dalgarno, many of which were reported to
me by yourself, much to the inflammation of my passion."

"Alack-a-day!-Alack-a-day!" replied Sir Mungo, "I remember but too well how much your choler
was inflamed, in spite of the various remonstrances which I made to you respecting the sacred
nature of the place. Alas! alas! you cannot say you leaped into the mire for want of warning."

"I see, Sir Mungo, you are determined to remember nothing which can do me service," said Nigel.

"Blithely would I do ye service," said the Knight; "and the best whilk I can think of is, to
tell you the process of the punishment to the whilk you will be indubitably subjected, I having
had the good fortune to behold it performed in the Queen's time, on a chield that had written
a pasquinado. I was then in my Lord Gray's train, who lay leaguer here, and being always covetous
of pleasing and profitable sights, I could not dispense with being present on the occasion."

"I should be surprised, indeed," said Lord Glenvarloch, "if you had so far put restraint upon
your benevolence, as to stay away from such an exhibition."

"Hey! was your lordship praying me to be present at your own execution?" answered the Knight.
"Troth, my lord, it will be a painful sight to a friend, but I will rather punish myself than
baulk you. It is a pretty pageant, in the main--a very pretty pageant. The fallow came on with
such a bold face, it was a pleasure to look on him. He was dressed all in white, to signify
harmlessness and innocence. The thing was done on a scaffold at Westminster--most likely yours
will be at the Charing. There were the Sheriffs and the Marshal's men, and what not--the executioner,
with his cleaver and mallet, and his man, with a pan of hot charcoal, and the irons for cautery.
He was a dexterous fallow that Derrick. This man Gregory is not fit to jipper a joint with
him; it might be worth your lordship's while to have the loon sent to a barber-surgeon's, to
learn some needful scantling of anatomy--it may be for the benefit of yourself and other unhappy
sufferers, and also a kindness to Gregory."

"I will not take the trouble," said Nigel.--"If the laws will demand my hand, the executioner
may get it off as he best can. If the king leaves it where it is, it may chance to do him better
service."

