The first is the requirement which has always been maintained in Oxford, that a candidate for
one of the higher degrees, e.g. the D.D. or the D.M., should have first passed through the
Arts course, and taken the ordinary B.A. degree.

This principle, that a general education should precede a special study, is most important
now; it has also a venerable history. It was established by the University as long ago as the
beginning of the fourteenth century, and was the result of a long struggle against the Mendicant
Friars. This struggle was part of that jealousy between the Regular and the Secular Clergy,
which is so important in the history of the English Church in mediaeval times.

The University, as identified with the ordinary clergy, steadfastly resisted the claim of the
great preaching orders, the Franciscans and the Dominicans, to proceed to a degree in Theology
without first taking the Arts course. The case was carried to Rome more than once, and was
decided both for and against the University; but royal favour and popular feeling were for
the Oxford authorities against the Friars, and the principle was maintained then, and, as has
been said, has been maintained always.

[Sidenote: The M.A. becomes a form.]

In the other point there has been a great departure from old usage. The original degree course
involved seven years' residence for those who wished to become Masters. Even before the Reformation,
the number of those who took the degree was comparatively small, although the candidate at
entrance was often only thirteen years old or even younger; and with the improvement of the
schools of the country in the sixteenth century, the need of such prolonged residence became
less, as candidates were better prepared before they came up. Since the old arrangements were
clearly unworkable, different universities have modified them in various ways; in Scotland
the Baccalaureate has disappeared altogether, and the undergraduate passes straight to his
M.A.; in France the degree of bachelier is the lowest of university qualifications, and more
nearly resembles our Matriculation than anything else; in Germany the Doctorate is the reward
of undergraduate studies, although it need hardly be said that those studies are on different
lines from those of our own undergraduates. In England the old names have both been maintained
(the English, like the Romans, are essentially conservative), but their meaning has been entirely
altered.

We can trace in the Elizabethan and the Stuart periods the gradual modification of the old
requirements for the residence of M.A.s, by means of dispensations. This was done in two ways.
Sometimes the actual time required was shortened, because a man was poor, because he could
get clerical promotion if he were an M.A., or even by a general 'grace' in order to increase
the number of those taking the degree. If only a small number incepted it was thought a reflection
on Oxford, and there were always Cambridge spectators at hand to note it. And as the Proctors
were largely paid by the degree fees, they had an obvious interest in increasing the number
of M.A.s.

But it was more frequent to retain the length of time, but to dispense with actual residence;
special reasons for this, e.g. clerical duties, travel, lawsuits, are at first given, but it
gradually became the normal procedure, and residence ceased to be required after the B.A. degree
had been taken. The Master's term was retained pro forma till within the recollection of graduates
still living (it will be remembered that Mr. Hughes makes 'Tom Brown' return to keep it, a
sadder and a wiser man); but even that form has now disappeared, and the Oxford M.A. qualifies
for his degree only by continuing to live and by paying fees. It may be added at once that
the maintenance of the form is essential to the finance of the University; the M.A. fees alone,
apart from the dues paid in the interval between taking the B.A. and the M.A., amount to some
£6,000 a year, and considering how little the ordinary man pays as an undergraduate to the
University, the payment of the M.A. is one that is fully due; it should be regarded by all
Oxford men as an expression of the gratitude to their Alma Mater, which they are in duty bound
to show. The future of Oxford finance would be brighter if some reformer could devise means
by which the relation of the M.A. to his University might become more of a reality, so that
he might realize his obligations to her. The doctrine of Walter de Merton that a foundation
should benefit by the 'happy fortune' (uberiore fortuna) of its sons in subsequent life, is
one that sadly needs emphasizing in Oxford.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: This custom has left its trace in our matriculation arrangements. Candidates
are still required to state the rank of their father, and their position in the family, though
birth and primogeniture no longer carry any privileges with them at Oxford.]

[Footnote 14: The University authorities at Paris and elsewhere had a great objection to dictating
lectures; on the other hand the mediaeval undergraduate, like his modern successor, loved to
'get something down', and was wont to protest forcibly against a lecturer who went too fast,
by hissing, shouting, or even organized stone-throwing.]

[Footnote 15: It is amusing to notice that the irreducible minimum of the Ethics at Paris in
the fourteenth century consists of the same first four books that are still almost universally
taken up at Oxford for the pass degree (i.e. in the familiar 'Group A. I').]

[Footnote 16: It was only 2d., a sum which has been immortalized by Samuel Johnson's famous
retort on his tutor: 'Sir, you have sconced me 2d. for non-attendance at a lecture not worth
a penny.']

[Footnote 17: It was resigned voluntarily by New College in 1834; but the distinction is still
observed (or should be) that a Fellow of the College needs no grace for his degree, or if one
is asked, 'demands' it as a right (postulat is used instead of the usual supplicat). I have
adopted Dr. Rashdall's explanation of the origin of this strange privilege. It is curious to
add that King's College, Cambridge, copied it, along with other and better features, from its
great predecessor and model, New College.]

[Footnote 18: i.e. in the Parvis or Porch of St. Mary's, where the disputations on Logic and
Grammar, which formed the examination, took place: this was probably a room over the actual
entrance, such as was common in mediaeval churches; there is a small example of one still to
be seen in Oxford, over the south porch of St. Mary Magdalen Church.]

CHAPTER IV

THE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY

[Sidenote: The Origin of the Chancellor's Authority.]

The beginning of the organized authority of the University, as has been already said (p. 22),
is the mention of the Chancellor in the charter of 1214. In the earliest period this officer
was the centre of the constitutional life of Oxford. Although the bishop's representative,
and as such endowed with an authority external to the University, he was, perhaps from the
first, elected by the Doctors and Masters there. Hence by a truly English anomaly, the representative
of outside authority becomes identified with the representative of the democratic principle,
and the Oxford Chancellor combined in himself the position of the elected Rector of a foreign
university, and that of the Chancellor appointed by an external power. The reason for this
anomaly is partly the remote position of the episcopal see; Lincoln, the bishop's seat, was
more than 100 miles from the University town, which lay on the very borders of his great diocese.
The combination too was surely made easy by the influence of the great scholar-saint, Bishop
Grosseteste, who had himself filled the position of Chancellor (though he may not have borne
the title) before he passed to the see of Lincoln, which he held for eighteen years (1235-1253)
during the critical period of the growth of the academic constitution.

During the first two centuries of the University's existence, the Chancellor was a resident
official; but in the fifteenth century it became customary to elect some great ecclesiastic,
who was able by his influence and wealth to promote the interests of Oxford and Oxford scholars;
such an one was George Neville, the brother of the King-Maker Earl of Warwick, who became Chancellor
in 1453 at the age of twenty. He no doubt owed his early elevation to the magnificence with
which he had entertained the whole of Oxford when he had proceeded to his M.A. from Balliol
College in the preceding year.

[Sidenote: The Vice-Chancellor.]

From the fifteenth century onwards the Vice-Chancellor takes the place of the Chancellor as
the centre of University life; as the Chancellor's representative, he is nominated every year
by letters from him, though the appointment is in theory approved by the vote of Convocation.

The nomination of a Vice-Chancellor is for a year, but renomination is allowed; as a matter
of fact, the Chancellor's choice is limited by custom in two ways; no Vice-Chancellor is reappointed
more than three times, i.e. the tenure of the office is limited to four years, and the nomination
is always offered to the senior head of a house who has not held the position already; if any
head has declined the office when offered to him on a previous occasion, he is treated as if
he had actually held it.

The Vice-Chancellor has all the powers and duties of the Chancellor in the latter's absence;
but in the rare cases when the Chancellor visits Oxford, his deputy sinks for the time into
the position of an ordinary head of a college.

[Sidenote: The Control of Examinations.]

The only duties of the Vice-Chancellor that need be here mentioned are his authority and control
over examinations and over degrees, duties which are of course connected. Any departure from
the ordinary course of proceeding needs his approval: e.g. (to take a constantly recurring
case) he alone can give permission to examine an undergraduate out of his turn, when any one
has failed to present himself at the right time for viva voce.

Now that all Oxford arrangements for examinations have developed into a cast-iron system, the
appeal, except in matters of detail, to the Vice-Chancellor is rare; but it was not always
so; his control was at one time a very real and important matter. In the case of the famous
Dr. Fell, Dean of Christ Church, Antony Wood notes 'that he did frequent examinations for degrees,
hold the examiners up to it, and if they would or could not do their duty, he would do it himself,
to the pulling down of many'. It is no wonder that men said of him:--

   I do not like thee, Dr. Fell,
   The reason why I cannot tell.

He was equally careful of the decencies and proprieties of the degree ceremony; 'his first
care (as Vice-Chancellor) was to make all degrees go in caps, and in public assemblies to appear
in hoods. He also reduced the caps and gowns worn by all degrees to their former size and make,
and ordered all cap-makers and tailors to make them so.'

It was necessary for him to be strict; some of the Puritans, although they were not on the
whole neglectful of the dignity and the studies of the University, had carried their dislike
of all ceremonies and forms so far as to attempt to abolish academical dress. But in spite
of this somewhat pronounced opposition to a 'prelatical cut', Owen had been in his way a disciplinarian.
He had arrested with his own hands, pulling him down from the rostrum and committing him to
Bocardo prison, an undergraduate who had carried too far the wit of the 'Terrae Filius', the
licensed jester of the solemn Act.

[Sidenote: The Bedels.]

Fortunately the Vice-Chancellor in these more orderly days has not to carry out discipline
with his own hands in this summary fashion. He has his attendants, the Bedels, for this purpose,
who, as the statutes order, 'wearing the usual gowns and round caps, walk before him in the
customary way with their staves, three gold and one silver.' The office of Bedel is one of
the oldest in Oxford, and is common to all Universities; Dr. Rashdall goes so far as to say
that 'an allusion to a bidellus is in general (though not invariably) a sufficiently trustworthy
indication that a School is really a University or Studium Generale'. The higher rank of 'Esquire
Bedel' has been abolished, and the old office has sadly shrunk in dignity; it is hard now to
conceive the state of things in the reign of Henry VII, when the University was distracted
by the counter-claims of the candidates for the post of Divinity Bedel, when one of them had
the support of the Prince of Wales, and another that of the King's mother, the Lady Margaret,
and when the electors were hard put to it to decide between candidates so royally backed; it
was a contest between gratitude in the sense of a lively expectation of favours to come, and
gratitude for benefits already received (i.e. the Lady Margaret Professorship of Divinity,
the first endowment of University teaching in Oxford). Even the Puritans had attached the greatest
importance to the office, and a humorous side is given to the sad account of the Parliamentary
Visitation in 1648 and the following years, by the distress of the Visitors at the disappearance
of the old symbols of authority. The Bedels, being good Royalists, had gone off with their
official staves, and refused to surrender them to the usurping intruders. Resolution after
resolution was passed to remedy the defect; the Visitors were reduced to ordering that the
stipends of suppressed lectureships should be applied to the purchase of staves, and were finally
compelled to appeal to the colleges for contributions towards the replacing of these signs
of authority. The present staves date from the eighteenth century, while the old ones[19] rest
in honourable retirement at the University Galleries.

Though the office of Bedel has ceased to be in our own days a matter of high University politics,
it would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of the part played by the Bedel of the Faculty
of Arts in the degree ceremony. It is he who marshals the candidates for presentation, distributes
the testaments on which they have to take their oath, and superintends the retirement of the
Doctors and the M.A.s into the Apodyterium, whence they return under his guidance in their
new robes, to make their bow to the Vice-Chancellor and Proctors.[20] If the truth must be
added, he is often relied on by these officers to tell them what they have to do and to say.

[Sidenote: The Proctors.]

If the Vice-Chancellor is responsible for order in the Congregation, and actually admits to
the degree, the Proctors, as representatives of the Faculty of Arts, play an equally important
part in the ceremony. These officials are to the undergraduate without doubt the most prominent
figures in the University; they form the centre of a large part of Oxford mythology; it may
be said (it is to be hoped the comparison is not irreverent) that they play much the same part
in Oxford stories as the Evil One does in mediaeval legends, for like him they are mysterious
and omnipresent beings, powerful for mischief, yet often not without a sense of humour, who
are by turns the oppressors and the butts of the wily undergraduate. To most Oxford men it
comes as a discovery, about the time they take their degree at the earliest, that the Proctors
have many other things to do besides looking after them.

The office goes back to the very beginnings of the University and is first mentioned in 1248,
when the Proctors are associated with the Chancellor in the charter of Henry III, which gave
the University a right to interfere in the assize of bread and beer.

Their number recalls one of the most important points in the early history of Oxford. The division
of the students according to 'Nations', which prevailed at mediaeval Paris, and which still
survives in some of the Scotch universities, never was established in the English ones; in
this as in other respects the strong hand of the Anglo-Norman kings had made England one. But
though there was no room for division of 'Nations', there was a strongly-marked line of separation
between the Northerners and the Southerners, i.e. between those from the north of the Trent,
with whom the Scotch were joined, and those south of that river, among whom were reckoned the
Welsh and the Irish. The fights between these factions were a continual trouble to the mediaeval
University, and it was necessary for the M.A.s of each division to have their own Proctor;
hence originally the Senior Proctor was the elect of the Southerners and the Junior Proctor
of the Northerners.

Proctorial elections were a source of constantly recurring trouble, till Archbishop Laud at
last transferred the election to the colleges, each of which took its turn in a cycle carefully
calculated according to the numbers of each college. In our own generation this system has
been carried a step further, and all colleges, large or small alike, have their turn for the
Proctorship, which comes to each once in eleven years. The electors for it are the members
of the governing body along with all members of Congregation belonging to the college.

The Proctors represent the Masters of Arts as opposed to the higher faculties (i.e. the Doctors),
and it is in virtue of the time-honoured right of the Faculty of Arts to decide all matters
concerning the granting of 'graces', that the Proctors take their prominent part in the degree
ceremony. Although the Vice-Chancellor is presiding, it is the Proctor who submits the degrees
to the House, and declares them 'granted'. Before doing this the two Proctors, as has been
said (p. 9), walk half-way down the House and return, thus in form fulfilling the injunction
of the statutes that 'they should take the votes in the usual way'.[21]

[Sidenote: The Registrar.]

One other University official must be mentioned, the Registrar, i.e. the Secretary of the University.
The existence of a Register of Convocation implies that there must have been an officer of
this kind in mediaeval Oxford, but the actual title does not occur till the sixteenth century;
its first holder seems to have been John London of New College, so scandalously notorious in
the first days of the Reformation. But the character of University officials was not high in
the sixteenth century. One of the earliest Registrars, Thomas Key of All Souls, was expelled
from his post in 1552 for having during two years neglected to take any note of the University
proceedings; he actually struck in the face another Master of Arts who was trying to detain
him at the order of the Vice-Chancellor. For this he was sent to prison, and fined 26s. 8d.;
but he was released the very next day, and his fine cut down to 4d. He lived to be elected
Master of University College nine years later, and to be the mendacious champion of the antiquity
of Oxford against the Cambridge advocate. This was his namesake Dr. Caius, equally mendacious
but more reputable, the pious 'second founder' of a great Cambridge college.

The Registrar's duty in the degree ceremony, as has been said (p. 5), is to certify that the
candidates have fulfilled all the requirements for the degree, that they have received 'graces'
from their colleges as to proper residence, and that all examinations have in every case been
passed; the Registrar derives this latter information from the University books in which records
are now kept of each stage of an undergraduate's career. It is only recently, however, that
this system has been adopted; less than twenty years ago each candidate for a degree had to
produce his 'testamur', the precious scrap of blue paper issued after every examination to
each successful candidate, pass-man and class-man alike. It was a clumsy system, but it had
strong claims of sentiment; most old Oxford men will remember the rush to get the 'testamur'
for self or for friend, and the triumph with which the visible symbol was brought home. Since
the University has abolished these, it might with advantage introduce the custom of granting
to each graduate, on taking his degree, a formal certificate of the examinations he has passed,
of his residence and of the rank to which he has attained. Such a certificate, whether called
'diploma' or by any other name, would be of practical value; in these days study is international,
and the number of men is very great, and is increasing, who need to produce evidence of their
University career and its results for the authorities of foreign or American universities.
These bodies often issue diplomas of most dignified appearance; it is a pity that Oxford, which
in some ways is so rich in survivals of picturesque custom, should fail in this matter. It
is true that a certificate of the degree can be obtained, if a man writes to the Registrar
for it and pays an extra fee; this additional payment seems a little unjust; and men would
be more willing to take the degree if, as they say, 'they had something definite to show for it.'

[Sidenote: The Presenters for the degrees.]

The presenters for the degrees are mainly college officials; it is only for the higher degrees
that University professors present, and then not simply in virtue of being University officials[22],
but also as having already attained the degree which the candidate is seeking. The old Oxford
theory was that of the Roman magistracy, that only those who were of a certain rank could admit
others to that rank. Thus the Regius Professor of Medicine usually presents our medical Bachelors
and Doctors; but he performs this duty because he is a Doctor; he has, however, as occupying
the professorial chair, the right to claim presentations for himself, as against all other
Doctors, even those senior to him in standing. This right is a matter of immemorial custom
for the Regius Professors; it has been given to the Professor of Music by a recent statute (1897).

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 19: For their history and for a description of the present staves, cf. Appendix II.]

[Footnote 20: It seems a pity that the old order cannot be restored, and the candidates kept
outside till their 'graces' have been passed. Formerly they were kept in the 'Pig Market',
i.e. the ante-chamber of the Divinity School (see p. 89), or in the Apodyterium, till this
part of the ceremony was completed; they were then finally ushered into the presence of the
Vice-Chancellor by the Yeoman Bedel. A solemn enactment was passed in 1358 against the tailors,
who were apparently trying to shorten the length of University garments; 'for it is honourable
and in accordance with reason that clerks to whom God has given an advantage over the lay folk
in their adornments within, should likewise differ from the lay folk outwardly in dress.' If
any tailor broke the statute, he was to be imprisoned.

[Sidenote: Statute as to M.A.s.]

The observance of this principle was strictly enjoined also on members of the University; the
Master of Arts at his inception had to swear that he has 'of his own' the dress proper for
his degree, and that he will wear it on all proper occasions. Moreover it was further provided
that Masters should wear 'boots either black or as near black as possible', and that they should
never give 'ordinary lectures' when wearing 'shoes cut down or short in any way'.

[Sidenote: Sophisters[23].]

Naturally means had to be taken also to prevent members of the University of lower rank from
usurping the dress of their superiors. In 1489 it was ordained that 'whereas the insolence
of many scholars in our days is reaching such a pitch of audacity that they are not afraid
to wear hoods like Masters', henceforth they were to wear only the 'liripipium consutum et
non contextum'[24], on pain of a fine of 2s.; the fine was to be shared between the University,
the Chancellor, and the Proctors; it was further provided (which seems unnecessary) that if
any official had been negligent in exacting it, his portion should go to the University.

[Sidenote: B.A.s.]

At the same time, the hoods of the B.A.s were legislated on: 'Whereas the B.A.s in the different
faculties, careless of the safety of their own souls,' were wearing hoods insufficiently lined
with fur, henceforth all hoods were to be fully lined; a fortnight was given to the B.A.s to
put their scanty hoods right. The danger to salvation was incurred by the perjury involved
in the neglect of a statute which had been solemnly accepted on oath.

[Sidenote: Tailors.]

The University further settled what was to be charged by tailors for cutting the various dresses;
the prices seem very low, only 3d. for a furless gown (toga) and 6d. for a furred cope; but
no doubt the tailors of those days knew how to evade the statute by enhancing their profit
on the price of materials; we have one suit before the Chancellor (in 1439) in which the furred
gown in question was priced at no less than 36s. 8d.

These instances, which could be multiplied indefinitely, are enough to show how careful the
mediaeval University was as to dress. But it will be noticed that they nearly all refer to
the dress of graduates; the modern University on the other hand practically leaves its M.A.s
alone[25], while it still enforces (at least in theory) academic dress on its undergraduates,
as to whom the mediaeval University had little to say.

The Laudian Statutes here as elsewhere form the transition from the arrangements of Pre-Reformation
Oxford to those of our own day. They enforce (on all alike) dress of a proper colour, short
hair, and abstinence from 'absurdus ille et fastuosus mos' of walking abroad in fancy boots
(ocreae); only while the graduate is fined 6s. 8d. for offending, the undergraduate ('if his
age be suitable') suffers 'poena corporalis' at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellor and Proctors.

Perhaps the following general points may be made as to University dress in the olden times.

[Sidenote: (1) University Dress clerical.]

