Barrow whispered to her: "Let's go down and feed the swans.  I'd just as soon be away from
the crowd."

She nodded assent, and they departed hastily lest some of the others should volunteer their
company.  It took but a short time to reach the pond.  They found a log close to the water's
edge, and, taking a seat there, tossed morsels to the birds and chattered to each other.

"Look," said Barrow suddenly; "that's us ten years from now."

A carriage passed slowly, a solemn, liveried coachman on the box, a handsome, smooth-shaven
man of thirty-five and a richly gowned woman leaning back and looking out over the pond with
bored eyes.  And that last, the half-cynical, half-contemptuous expression on the two faces,
impressed Hazel Weir far more than the showy equipage, the outward manifestation of wealth.

"I hope not," she returned impulsively.

"Hope not!" Barrow echoed.  "Those people are worth a barrel of money. Wouldn't you like your
own carriage, and servants, and income enough to have everything you wanted?"

"Of course," Hazel answered.  "But they don't look as if they really enjoyed it."

"Fiddlesticks!" Barrow smilingly retorted.  "Everybody enjoys luxury."

"Well, one should," Hazel admitted.  But she still held to the impression that the couple passing
got no such pleasure out of their material possessions as Jack seemed to think.  It was merely
an intuitive divination.  She could not have found any basis from which to argue the point.
But she was very sure that she would not have changed places with the woman in the carriage,
and her hand stole out and gave his a shy little squeeze.

"Look," she murmured; "here's another of the plutocrats.  One of my esteemed employers, if
you please.  You'll notice that he's walking and looking at things just like us ordinary, everyday
mortals."

Barrow glanced past her, and saw a rather tall, middle-aged man, his hair tinged with gray,
a fine-looking man, dressed with exceeding nicety, even to a flower in his coat lapel, walking
slowly along the path that bordered the pond.  He stopped a few yards beyond them, and stood
idly glancing over the smooth stretch of water, his gloved hands resting on the knob of a silver-mounted
cane.

Presently his gaze wandered to them, and the cool, well-bred stare gradually gave way to a
slightly puzzled expression.  He moved a step or two and seated himself on a bench.  Miss Weir
became aware that he was looking at her most of the time as she sat casting the bits of bread
to the swans and ducks.  It made her self-conscious.  She did not know why she should be of
any particular interest.

"Let's walk around a little," she suggested.  The last of the crumbs were gone.

"All right," Barrow assented.  "Let's go up the ravine."

They left the log.  Their course up the ravine took them directly past the gentleman on the
bench.  And when they came abreast of him, he rose and lifted his hat at the very slight inclination
of Miss Weir's head.

"How do you do, Miss Weir?" said he.  "Quite a pleasant afternoon."

To the best of Hazel's knowledge, Mr. Andrew Bush was little given to friendly recognition
of his employees, particularly in public.  But he seemed inclined to be talkative; and, as
she caught a slightly inquiring glance at her escort, she made the necessary introduction.
So for a minute or two the three of them stood there exchanging polite banalities.  Then Mr.
Bush bowed and passed on.

"He's one of the biggest guns in Granville, they say," Jack observed. "I wouldn't mind having
some of his business to handle.  He started with nothing, too, according to all accounts. 
Now, that's what I call success."

"Oh, yes, in a business way he's a success," Hazel responded.  "But he's awfully curt most
of the time around the office.  I wonder what made him thaw out so to-day?"

And that question recurred to her mind again in the evening, when Jack had gone home and she
was sitting in her own room.  She wheeled her chair around and took a steady look at herself
in the mirror.  A woman may never admit extreme plainness of feature, and she may deprecate
her own fairness, if she be possessed of fairness, but she seldom has any illusions about one
or the other.  She knows.  Hazel Weir knew that she was far above the average in point of looks.
If she had never taken stock of herself before, the reflection facing her now was sufficient
to leave no room for doubt on the score of beauty.  Her skin was smooth, delicate in texture,
and as delicately tinted.  The tan pongee dress she wore set off her dark hair and expressive,
bluish-gray eyes.

She was smiling at herself just as she had been smiling at Jack Barrow while they sat on the
log and fed the swans.  And she made an amiable grin at the reflection in the glass.  But even
though Miss Weir was twenty-two and far from unsophisticated, it did not strike her that the
transition of herself from a demure, business-like office person in sober black and white to
a radiant creature with the potent influences of love and spring brightening her eyes and lending
a veiled caress to her every supple movement, satisfactorily accounted for the sudden friendliness
of Mr. Andrew Bush.

CHAPTER II

HEART, HAND--AND POCKETBOOK

Miss Weir was unprepared for what subsequently transpired as a result of that casual encounter
with the managing partner of the firm.  By the time she went to work on Monday morning she
had almost forgotten the meeting in Granville Park.  And she was only reminded of it when,
at nine o'clock, Mr. Andrew Bush walked through the office, greeting the force with his usual
curt nod and inclusive "good morning" before he disappeared behind the ground-glass door lettered
"Private."  With the weekday he had apparently resumed his business manner.

Hazel's work consisted largely of dictation from the shipping manager, letters relating to
outgoing consignments of implements.  She was rapid and efficient, and, having reached the
zenith of salary paid for such work, she expected to continue in the same routine until she
left Harrington & Bush for good.

It was, therefore, something of a surprise to be called into the office of the managing partner
on Tuesday afternoon.  Bush's private stenographer sat at her machine in one corner.

Mr. Bush turned from his desk at Hazel's entrance.

"Miss Weir," he said, "I wish you to take some letters."

Hazel went back for her notebook, wondering mildly why she should be called upon to shoulder
a part of Nelly Morrison's work, and a trifle dubious at the prospect of facing the rapid-fire
dictation Mr. Bush was said to inflict upon his stenographer now and then.  She had the confidence
of long practice, however, and knew that she was equal to anything in reason that he might
give her.

When she was seated, Bush took up a sheaf of letters, and dictated replies.  Though rapid,
his enunciation was perfectly clear, and Hazel found herself getting his words with greater
ease than she had expected.

"That's all, Miss Weir," he said, when he reached the last letter. "Bring those in for verification
and signature as soon as you can get them done."

In the course of time she completed the letters and took them back. Bush glanced over each,
and appended his signature.

"That's all, Miss Weir," he said politely.  "Thank you."

And Hazel went back to her machine, wondering why she had been requested to do those letters
when Nelly Morrison had nothing better to do than sit picking at her type faces with a toothpick.

She learned the significance of it the next morning, however, when the office boy told her
that she was wanted by Mr. Bush.  This time when she entered Nelly Morrison's place was vacant.
Bush was going through his mail.  He waved her to a chair.

