After the almost bloodless victory at Petrograd, the soldiers confidently assumed that matters
would take a similar course in the future. All that was necessary, they thought, was to send
an agitator to the Cossacks, who would lay down their arms the moment the object of the proletarian
revolution was explained to them. Korniloff's counter-revolutionary uprising was put down by
means of speeches and fraternization. By agitation and well-planned seizure of certain institutions--without
a fight--the Kerensky government was overthrown. The same methods were now being employed by
the leaders of the Tsarskoye-Selo, Krasnoye-Selo and the Gatchina Soviets with General Krassnov's
Cossacks. But this time they did not work. Though without determination or enthusiasm, the
Cossacks did advance. Individual detachments approached Gatchina and Krasnoye-Selo, engaged
the scanty forces of the local garrisons, and sometimes disarmed them. About the numerical
strength of Kerensky's forces we at first had no idea whatever. Some said that General Krassnov
headed ten thousand men; others affirmed that he had no more than a thousand; while the unfriendly
newspapers and circulars announced, in letters an inch big, that two corps were lined up beyond
Tsarskoye-Selo.

There was a general want of confidence in the Petrograd garrison. No sooner had it won a bloodless
victory, than it was called upon to march out against an enemy of unknown numbers and engage
in battles of uncertain outcome. In the Garrison Conference, the discussion centered about
the necessity of sending out more and more agitators and of issuing appeals to the Cossacks;
for to the soldiers it seemed impossible that the Cossacks would refuse to rise to the point
of view which the Petrograd garrison was defending in its struggle. Nevertheless, advanced
groups of Cossacks approached quite close to Petrograd, and we anticipated that the principal
battle would take place in the streets of the city.

The greatest resolution was shown by the Red Guards. They demanded arms, ammunition, and leadership.
But everything in the military machine was disorganized and out of gear, owing partly to disuse
and partly to evil intent. The officers had resigned. Many had fled. The rifles were in one
place and the cartridges in another. Matters were still worse with artillery. The cannons,
gun carriages and the military stores were all in different places; and all these had to be
groped for in the dark. The various regiments did not have at their disposal either sappers'
tools or field telephones. The Revolutionary General Staff, which tried to straighten out things
from above, encountered insurmountable obstacles, the greatest of which was the sabotage of
the military-technical employees.

Then we decided to appeal directly to the working class. We stated that the success of the
revolution was most seriously threatened, and that it was for them--by their energy, initiative,
and self-denial--to save and strengthen the regime of proletarian and peasant government. This
appeal met with tremendous practical success almost immediately. Thousands of workingmen proceeded
toward Kerensky's forces and began digging trenches. The munition workers manned the cannon,
themselves obtaining ammunition for them from various stores; requisitioned horses; brought
the guns into the necessary positions and adjusted them; organized a commissary department;
procured gasoline, motors, automobiles; requisitioned provisions and forage; and put the sanitary
trains on a proper footing--created, in short, the entire war machinery, which we had vainly
endeavored to create from above.

When scores of heavy guns reached the lines, the disposition of our soldiers changed immediately.
Under cover of the artillery they were ready to repulse the Cossacks' attack. In the first
lines were the sailors and Red Guards. A few officers, politically unrelated to us but sincerely
attached to their regiments, accompanied their soldiers to the lines and directed their operations
against Krassnov's Cossacks.

COLLAPSE OF KERENSKY'S ATTEMPT

Meanwhile telegrams spread the report all over the country and abroad that the Bolshevik "adventure"
had been disposed of and that Kerensky had entered Petrograd and was establishing order with
an iron hand. On the other hand, in Petrograd itself, the bourgeois press, emboldened by the
proximity of Kerensky's troops, wrote about the complete demoralization of the Petrograd garrison;
about an irresistible advance of the Cossacks, equipped with much artillery; and predicted
the imminent fall of the Smolny Institute. Our chief handicap was, as already stated, the lack
of suitable mechanical accessories and of men able to direct military operations. Even those
officers who had conscientiously accompanied their soldiers to the lines, declined the position
of Commander-in-Chief.

After long deliberation, we hit upon the following combination: The Garrison Council selected
a committee of five persons, which was entrusted with the supreme control of all operations
against the counter-revolutionary forces moving on Petrograd. This committee subsequently reached
an understanding with Colonel Muravief, who was in the opposition party under the Kerensky
regime, and who now, on his own initiative, offered his services to the Soviet government.

On the cold night of October 30th, Muravief and I started by automobile for the lines. Wagons
with provisions, forage, military supplies and artillery trailed along the road. All this was
done by the workingmen of various factories. Several times our automobile was stopped on the
way by Red Guard patrols who verified our permit. Since the first days of the October revolution,
every automobile in town had been requisitioned, and no automobile could be ridden through
the streets of the city or in the outskirts of the capital without a permit from the Smolny
Institute. The vigilance of the Red Guards was beyond all praise. They stood on watch about
small camp fires, rifle in hand, hours at a time. The sight of these young armed workmen by
the camp fires in the snow was the best symbol of the proletarian revolution.

Many guns had been drawn up in position, and there was no lack of ammunition. The decisive
encounter developed on this very day, between Krasnoye-Selo and Tsarskoye-Selo. After a fierce
artillery duel, the Cossacks, who kept on advancing as long as they met no obstacles, hastily
withdrew. They had been fooled all the time by tales of harsh and cruel acts committed by the
Bolsheviki, who wished, as it were, to sell Russia to the German Kaiser. They had been assured
that almost the entire garrison at Petrograd was impatiently awaiting them as deliverers. The
first serious resistance completely disorganized their ranks and sealed the fate of Kerensky's
entire undertaking.

The retreat of Krassnov's Cossacks enabled us to get control of the radio station at Tsarskoye-Selo.
We immediately wirelessed the news of our victory over Kerensky's forces. Our foreign friends
informed us subsequently that the German wireless station refused, on orders from above, to
receive this wireless message.

[Footnote: I cite here the text of this wireless message:

"Selo Pulkovo. General Staff 2:10 P. M. The night of October 30th-31st will go down in history.
Kerensky's attempt to march counter-revolutionary forces upon the capital of the revolution
has received a decisive check. Kerensky is retreating, we are advancing. The soldiers, sailors
and workingmen of Petrograd have shown that they can and will, gun in hand, affirm the will
and power of proletarian democracy. The bourgeoisie tried to isolate the army of the revolution
and Kerensky attempted to crush it by Cossackism. Both have been frustrated.

"The great idea of the reign of a workingmen's and peasants' democracy united the ranks of
the army and hardened its will. The whole country will now come to understand that the Soviet
government is not a passing phenomenon, but a permanent fact of the supremacy of the workers,
soldiers and peasants. Kerensky's repulse was the repulse of the middle class, the bourgeoisie
and the Kornilovites. Kerensky's repulse means the affirmation of the people's rights to a
free, peaceful life, to land, food and power. The Pulkovsky division, by their brilliant charge,
is strengthening the cause of the proletarian and peasant revolution. There can be no return
to the past. There is still fighting, obstacles and sacrifice ahead of us. But the way is open
and victory assured.

"Revolutionary Russia and the Soviet Government may well be proud of their Pulkovsky division,
commanded by Colonel Walden. May the names of the fallen never be forgotten. All honor to the
fighters for the revolution--the soldiers and the officers who stood by the People! Long live
revolutionary and Socialist Russia! In the name of the Council of People's Commissaries, L.
Trotzky, Oct. 31st, 1917."]

The first reaction of the German authorities to the events of October was thus one of fear--fear
lest these events provoke disturbances in Germany itself. In Austria-Hungary, part of our telegram
was accepted and, so far as we can tell, has been the source of information for all Europe
upon the ill-starred attempt of Kerensky to recover his power and its miserable failure.

Discontent was rife among Krassnov's Cossacks. They began sending their scouts into Petrograd
and even official delegates to Smolny. There they had the opportunity to convince themselves
that perfect order reigned in the capital, thanks to the Petrograd garrison, which unanimously
supported the Soviet government. The Cossacks' disorganization became the more acute as the
absurdity of the plan to take Petrograd with some thousand horsemen dawned upon them--for the
supports promised them from the front never arrived.

Krassnov's detachment withdrew to Gatchinsk, and when we started out thither the next day,
Krassnov's staff were already virtually prisoners of the Cossacks themselves. Our Gatchinsk
garrison was holding all the most important military positions. The Cossacks, on the other
hand, though not yet disarmed, were absolutely in no position for further resistance. They
wanted but one thing: to be allowed as soon as possible to return to the Don region or, at
least, back to the front.

The Gatchinsk Palace presented a curious sight. At every entrance stood a special guard, while
at the gates were artillery and armored cars. Sailors, soldiers and Red Guards occupied the
royal apartments, decorated with precious paintings. Scattered upon the tables, made of expensive
wood, lay soldiers' clothes, pipes and empty sardine boxes. In one of the rooms General Krassnov's
staff had established itself. On the floor lay mattresses, caps and greatcoats.

The representative of the Revolutionary War Committee, who escorted us, entered the quarters
of the General Staff, noisily dropped his rifle-butt to the floor and resting upon it, announced:
"General Krassnov, you and your staff are prisoners of the Soviet authorities." Immediately
armed Red Guards barred both doors. Kerensky was nowhere to be seen. He had again fled, as
he had done before from the Winter Palace. As to the circumstances attending this flight, General
Krassnov made a written statement on November 1st. I cite here in full this curious document.

*       *       *       *       *

November 1st, 1917, 19 o'clock.

About 15 o'clock today, I was summoned by the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, Kerensky. He was
very agitated and nervous.

