Half an hour later, the fog had surmounted all the ridge on the opposite side of the gap, though
a shoulder of the mountain still warded it out of our canyon.  Napa valley and its bounding
hills were now utterly blotted out.  The fog, sunny white in the sunshine, was pouring over
into Lake County in a huge, ragged cataract, tossing treetops appearing and disappearing in
the spray. The air struck with a little chill, and set me coughing.  It smelt strong of the
fog, like the smell of a washing-house, but with a shrewd tang of the sea salt.

Had it not been for two things--the sheltering spur which answered as a dyke, and the great
valley on the other side which rapidly engulfed whatever mounted--our own little platform in
the canyon must have been already buried a hundred feet in salt and poisonous air.  As it was,
the interest of the scene entirely occupied our minds.  We were set just out of the wind, and
but just above the fog; we could listen to the voice of the one as to music on the stage; we
could plunge our eyes down into the other, as into some flowing stream from over the parapet
of a bridge; thus we looked on upon a strange, impetuous, silent, shifting exhibition of the
powers of nature, and saw the familiar landscape changing from moment to moment like figures
in a dream.

The imagination loves to trifle with what is not.  Had this been indeed the deluge, I should
have felt more strongly, but the emotion would have been similar in kind.  I played with the
idea, as the child flees in delighted terror from the creations of his fancy.  The look of
the thing helped me.  And when at last I began to flee up the mountain, it was indeed partly
to escape from the raw air that kept me coughing, but it was also part in play.

As I ascended the mountain-side, I came once more to overlook the upper surface of the fog;
but it wore a different appearance from what I had beheld at daybreak.  For, first, the sun
now fell on it from high overhead, and its surface shone and undulated like a great nor'land
moor country, sheeted with untrodden morning snow. And next the new level must have been a
thousand or fifteen hundred feet higher than the old, so that only five or six points of all
the broken country below me, still stood out.  Napa valley was now one with Sonoma on the west.
On the hither side, only a thin scattered fringe of bluffs was unsubmerged; and through all
the gaps the fog was pouring over, like an ocean, into the blue clear sunny country on the
east.  There it was soon lost; for it fell instantly into the bottom of the valleys, following
the water-shed; and the hilltops in that quarter were still clear cut upon the eastern sky.

Through the Toll House gap and over the near ridges on the other side, the deluge was immense.
A spray of thin vapour was thrown high above it, rising and falling, and blown into fantastic
shapes. The speed of its course was like a mountain torrent.  Here and there a few treetops
were discovered and then whelmed again; and for one second, the bough of a dead pine beckoned
out of the spray like the arm of a drowning man.  But still the imagination was dissatisfied,
still the ear waited for something more.  Had this indeed been water (as it seemed so, to the
eye), with what a plunge of reverberating thunder would it have rolled upon its course, disembowelling
mountains and deracinating pines!  And yet water it was, and sea-water at that--true Pacific
billows, only somewhat rarefied, rolling in mid air among the hilltops.

I climbed still higher, among the red rattling gravel and dwarf underwood of Mount Saint Helena,
until I could look right down upon Silverado, and admire the favoured nook in which it lay.
The sunny plain of fog was several hundred feet higher; behind the protecting spur a gigantic
accumulation of cottony vapour threatened, with every second, to blow over and submerge our
homestead; but the vortex setting past the Toll House was too strong; and there lay our little
platform, in the arms of the deluge, but still enjoying its unbroken sunshine.  About eleven,
however, thin spray came flying over the friendly buttress, and I began to think the fog had
hunted out its Jonah after all.  But it was the last effort.  The wind veered while we were
at dinner, and began to blow squally from the mountain summit; and by half-past one, all that
world of sea- fogs was utterly routed and flying here and there into the south in little rags
of cloud.  And instead of a lone sea-beach, we found ourselves once more inhabiting a high
mountainside, with the clear green country far below us, and the light smoke of Calistoga blowing
in the air.

This was the great Russian campaign for that season.  Now and then, in the early morning, a
little white lakelet of fog would be seen far down in Napa Valley; but the heights were not
again assailed, nor was the surrounding world again shut off from Silverado.

THE TOLL HOUSE

The Toll House, standing alone by the wayside under nodding pines, with its streamlet and water-tank;
its backwoods, toll-bar, and well trodden croquet ground; the ostler standing by the stable
door, chewing a straw; a glimpse of the Chinese cook in the back parts; and Mr. Hoddy in the
bar, gravely alert and serviceable, and equally anxious to lend or borrow books;--dozed all
day in the dusty sunshine, more than half asleep.  There were no neighbours, except the Hansons
up the hill.  The traffic on the road was infinitesimal; only, at rare intervals, a couple
in a waggon, or a dusty farmer on a springboard, toiling over "the grade" to that metropolitan
hamlet, Calistoga; and, at the fixed hours, the passage of the stages.

The nearest building was the school-house, down the road; and the school-ma'am boarded at the
Toll House, walking thence in the morning to the little brown shanty, where she taught the
young ones of the district, and returning thither pretty weary in the afternoon.  She had chosen
this outlying situation, I understood, for her health.  Mr. Corwin was consumptive; so was
Rufe; so was Mr. Jennings, the engineer.  In short, the place was a kind of small Davos:  consumptive
folk consorting on a hilltop in the most unbroken idleness.  Jennings never did anything that
I could see, except now and then to fish, and generally to sit about in the bar and the verandah,
waiting for something to happen.  Corwin and Rufe did as little as possible; and if the school-ma'am,
poor lady, had to work pretty hard all morning, she subsided when it was over into much the
same dazed beatitude as all the rest.

Her special corner was the parlour--a very genteel room, with Bible prints, a crayon portrait
of Mrs. Corwin in the height of fashion, a few years ago, another of her son (Mr. Corwin was
not represented), a mirror, and a selection of dried grasses.  A large book was laid religiously
on the table--"From Palace to Hovel," I believe, its name--full of the raciest experiences
in England.  The author had mingled freely with all classes, the nobility particularly meeting
him with open arms; and I must say that traveller had ill requited his reception.  His book,
in short, was a capital instance of the Penny Messalina school of literature; and there arose
from it, in that cool parlour, in that silent, wayside, mountain inn, a rank atmosphere of
gold and blood and "Jenkins," and the "Mysteries of London," and sickening, inverted snobbery,
fit to knock you down.  The mention of this book reminds me of another and far racier picture
of our island life.  The latter parts of Rocambole are surely too sparingly consulted in the
country which they celebrate.  No man's education can be said to be complete, nor can he pronounce
the world yet emptied of enjoyment, till he has made the acquaintance of "the Reverend Patterson,
director of the Evangelical Society."  To follow the evolutions of that reverend gentleman,
who goes through scenes in which even Mr. Duffield would hesitate to place a bishop, is to
rise to new ideas. But, alas! there was no Patterson about the Toll House.  Only, alongside
of "From Palace to Hovel," a sixpenny "Ouida" figured. So literature, you see, was not unrepresented.

The school-ma'am had friends to stay with her, other school-ma'ams enjoying their holidays,
quite a bevy of damsels.  They seemed never to go out, or not beyond the verandah, but sat
close in the little parlour, quietly talking or listening to the wind among the trees.  Sleep
dwelt in the Toll House, like a fixture:  summer sleep, shallow, soft, and dreamless.  A cuckoo-clock,
a great rarity in such a place, hooted at intervals about the echoing house; and Mr. Jenning
would open his eyes for a moment in the bar, and turn the leaf of a newspaper, and the resting
school-ma'ams in the parlour would be recalled to the consciousness of their inaction.  Busy
Mrs. Corwin and her busy Chinaman might be heard indeed, in the penetralia, pounding dough
or rattling dishes; or perhaps Rufe had called up some of the sleepers for a game of croquet,
and the hollow strokes of the mallet sounded far away among the woods:  but with these exceptions,
it was sleep and sunshine and dust, and the wind in the pine trees, all day long.

A little before stage time, that castle of indolence awoke.  The ostler threw his straw away
and set to his preparations.  Mr. Jennings rubbed his eyes; happy Mr. Jennings, the something
he had been waiting for all day about to happen at last!  The boarders gathered in the verandah,
silently giving ear, and gazing down the road with shaded eyes.  And as yet there was no sign
for the senses, not a sound, not a tremor of the mountain road.  The birds, to whom the secret
of the hooting cuckoo is unknown, must have set down to instinct this premonitory bustle.

