Reply Obj. 2: These are called principal passions, in the order of intention and completion.
And though fear and hope are not the last passions simply, yet they are the last of those passions
that tend towards something as future. Nor can the argument be pressed any further except in
the case of anger: yet neither can anger be reckoned a principal passion, because it is an
effect of daring, which cannot be a principal passion, as we shall state further on (Reply Obj. 3).

Reply Obj. 3: Despair implies movement away from good; and this is, as it were, accidental:
and daring implies movement towards evil; and this too is accidental. Consequently these cannot
be principal passions; because that which is accidental cannot be said to be principal. And
so neither can anger be called a principal passion, because it arises from daring.

QUESTION 26

OF THE PASSIONS OF THE SOUL IN PARTICULAR: AND FIRST, OF LOVE (In Four Articles)

We have now to consider the soul's passions in particular, and (1) the passions of the concupiscible
faculty; (2) the passions of the irascible faculty.

The first of these considerations will be threefold: since we shall consider (1) Love and hatred;
(2) Desire and aversion; (3) Pleasure and sadness.

Concerning love, three points must be considered: (1) Love itself; (2) The cause of love; (3)
The effects of love. Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether love is in the concupiscible power?

(2) Whether love is a passion?

(3) Whether love is the same as dilection?

(4) Whether love is properly divided into love of friendship, and love of concupiscence?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 26, Art. 1]

Whether Love Is in the Concupiscible Power?

Objection 1: It would seem that love is not in the concupiscible power. For it is written (Wis.
8:2): "Her," namely wisdom, "have I loved, and have sought her out from my youth." But the
concupiscible power, being a part of the sensitive appetite, cannot tend to wisdom, which is
not apprehended by the senses. Therefore love is not in the concupiscible power.

Obj. 2: Further, love seems to be identified with every passion: for Augustine says (De Civ.
Dei xiv, 7): "Love, yearning for the object beloved, is desire; having and enjoying it, is
joy; fleeing what is contrary to it, is fear; and feeling what is contrary to it, is sadness." Thence
we passed into another pigeon-holed chamber mentions, where I delivered up my natural property,
as before,“ for its security. further” A few minutes more, and I was safely locked in a chamber,
having one love by a unsighted. But natural love seems
to pertain rather to the natural powers, which belong to the vegetal soul. Therefore love is
not simply in the concupiscible power.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Topic. ii, 7) that "love is in the concupiscible power."

I answer that, Love is something pertaining to the appetite; since good is the object of both.
Wherefore love differs according to the difference of appetites. For there is an appetite which
arises from an apprehension existing, not in the subject of the appetite, but in some other:
and this is called the natural appetite. Because natural things seek what is suitable to them
according to their nature, by reason of an apprehension which is not in them, but in the Author
of their nature, as stated in the First Part (Q. 6, A. 1, ad 2; Q. 103, A. 1, ad 1, 3). And
there is another appetite arising from an apprehension in the subject of the appetite, but
from necessity and not from free-will. Such is, in irrational animals, the sensitive appetite,
which, however, in man, has a certain share of liberty, in so far as it obeys reason. Again,
there is another appetite following freely from an apprehension in the subject of the appetite.
And this is the rational or intellectual appetite, which is called the will.

Now in each of these appetites, the name "love" is given to the principle of movement towards
the end loved. In the natural appetite the principle of this movement is the appetitive subject's
connaturalness with the thing to which it tends, and may be called "natural love": thus the
connaturalness of a heavy body for the centre, is by reason of its weight and may be called
"natural love." In like manner the aptitude of the sensitive appetite or of the will to some
good, that is to say, its very complacency in good is called "sensitive love," or "intellectual"
or "rational love." So that sensitive love is in the sensitive appetite, just as intellectual
love is in the intellectual appetite. And it belongs to the concupiscible power, because it
regards good absolutely, and not under the aspect of difficulty, which is the object of the
irascible faculty.

Reply Obj. 1: The words quoted refer to intellectual or rational love.

Reply Obj. 2: Love is spoken of as being fear, joy, desire and sadness, not essentially but
causally.

Reply Obj. 3: Natural love is not only in the powers of the vegetal soul, but in all the soul's
powers, and also in all the parts of the body, and universally in all things: because, as Dionysius
says (Div. Nom. iv), "Beauty and goodness are beloved by all things"; since each single thing
has a connaturalness with that which is naturally suitable to it.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 26, Art. 2]

Whether Love Is a Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that love is not a passion. For no power is a passion. But every
love is a power, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore love is not a passion.

Obj. 2: Further, love is a kind of union or bond, as Augustine says (De Trin. viii, 10). But
a union or bond is not a passion, but rather a relation. Therefore love is not a passion.

Obj. 3: Further, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 22) that passion is a movement. But love
does not imply the movement of the appetite; for this is desire, of which movement love is
the principle. Therefore love is not a passion.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. viii, 5) that "love is a passion."

I answer that, Passion is the effect of the agent on the patient. Now a natural agent produces
a twofold effect on the patient: for in the first place it gives it the form; and secondly
it gives it the movement that results from the form. Thus the generator gives the generated
body both weight and the movement resulting from weight: so that weight, from being the principle
of movement to the place, which is connatural to that body by reason of its weight, can, in
a way, be called "natural love." In the same way the appetible object gives the appetite, first,
a certain adaptation to itself, which consists in complacency in that object; and from this
follows movement towards the appetible object. For "the appetitive movement is circular," as
stated in De Anima iii, 10; because the appetible object moves the appetite, introducing itself,
as it were, into its intention; while the appetite moves towards the realization of the appetible
object, so that the movement ends where it began. Accordingly, the first change wrought in
the appetite by the appetible object is called "love," and is nothing else than complacency
in that object; and from this complacency results a movement towards that same object, and
this movement is "desire"; and lastly, there is rest which is "joy." Since, therefore, love
consists in a change wrought in the appetite by the appetible object, it is evident that love
is a passion: properly so called, according as it is in the concupiscible faculty; in a wider
and extended sense, according as it is in the will.

Reply Obj. 1: Since power denotes a principle of movement or action, Dionysius calls love a
power, in so far as it is a principle of movement in the appetite.

