Muir spent a whole day alone on the glacier, walking over twenty miles across what he called
the glacial lake between two mountains. A cold, penetrating, mist-like rain was falling, and
dark clouds swept up the bay and clung about the shoulders of the mountains. When night approached
and Muir had not returned, I set the Indians to digging out from the bases of the gravel hills
the frazzled stumps and logs that remained of the buried forests. These were full of resin
and burned brightly. I made a great fire and cooked a good supper of venison, beans, biscuit
and coffee. When pitchy darkness gathered, and still Muir did not come, Tow-a-att made some
torches of fat spruce, and taking with him Charley, laden with more wood, he went up the beach
a mile and a half, climbed the base of the mountain and kindled a beacon which flashed its
cheering rays far over the glacier.

Muir came stumbling into camp with these two Indians a little before midnight, very tired but
very happy. "Ah!" he sighed, "I'm glad to be in camp. The glacier almost got me this time.
If it had not been for the beacon and old Tow-a-att, I might have had to spend the night on
the ice. The crevasses were so many and so bewildering in their mazy, crisscross windings that
I was actually going farther into the glacier when I caught the flash of light."

I brought him to the tent and placed the hot viands before him. He attacked them ravenously,
but presently was talking again:

"Man, man; you ought to have been with me. You'll never make up what you have lost to-day.
I've been wandering through a thousand rooms of God's crystal temple. I've been a thousand
feet down in the crevasses, with matchless domes and sculptured figures and carved ice-work
all about me. Solomon's marble and ivory palaces were nothing to it. Such purity, such color,
such delicate beauty! I was tempted to stay there and feast my soul, and softly freeze, until
I would become part of the glacier. What a great death that would be!"

Again and again I would have to remind Muir that he was eating his supper, but it was more
than an hour before I could get him to finish the meal, and two or three hours longer before
he stopped talking and went to sleep. I wish I had taken down his descriptions. What splendid
reading they would make!

But scurries of snow warned us that winter was coming, and, much to the relief of our natives,
we turned the prow of our canoe towards Chatham Strait again. Landing our Hoonah guide at his
village, we took our route northward again up Lynn Canal. The beautiful Davison Glacier with
its great snowy fan drew our gaze and excited our admiration for two days; then the visit to
the Chilcats and the return trip commenced. Bowling down the canal before a strong north wind,
we entered Stevens Passage, and visited the two villages of the Auk Indians, a squalid, miserable
tribe. We camped at the site of what is now Juneau, the capital of Alaska, and no dream of
the millions of gold that were to be taken from those mountains disturbed us. If we had known,
I do not think that we would have halted a day or staked a claim. Our treasures were richer
than gold and securely laid up in the vaults of our memories.

