That state of feeling from which the Colonization Society sprung, is well illustrated by this
writer, in giving, in natural language, a picture of his own mind. After again repeating his
statement of the vast proportion which the colored population bears to the white, in the Slave
States, he says, "Now, my friend, the general emancipation of such a number of these poor,
degraded creatures, say more than two millions, always to remain here with the white people,
even if the Government should take the necessary care for their education and preparation for
freedom and civilized life, which to be sure it ought, they must or will be a degraded people,
while the reins of government remain in the hands of the whites. Supposing the very best consequences
that could follow such a measure, even that both classes should generally exercise Christian
feelings towards each other, which is very improbable, if not morally impossible, the peculiarly
marked difference of features and color, will be always an insurmountable barrier to general
amalgamation." Again, "Were they of the same color and features that we are, in an elective
republican government like this, where talents and merit are the common footsteps to esteem
and preferment, there would be no difficulty in universal emancipation, without a separation.
I have no idea that they are at all inferior to the white people in intellect; give them the
same opportunity for enterprise and improvement." Their only sin, it appears, after all, is
being "guilty of a skin not colored like our own." I may observe, in passing, that amalgamation,
the bugbear of anti-abolitionists, is the necessary result of slavery, not of emancipation.

The preceding extracts present a faithful picture of colonization principles, though it is
not every colonizationist who would avow them with so much simplicity. The writer notwithstanding,
manifests some benevolent feeling towards the slaves. His conscience cannot be satisfied with
the present state of things, and he, like too many others, takes refuge in the pleasing delusion
that it would be practicable to convey these colored Americans across the Atlantic and make
them comfortable in Africa, because their ancestors were born there. As reasonably and as justly
might he talk of transporting the white Americans to England because their ancestors removed
from this country.

It is very easily demonstrable, that this could not possibly be accomplished--that neither
the means of transport could be found, nor the means of settlement provided; and were these
impossibilities removed, it might also be shown, very easily, that it would be suicidal policy
to remove the entire laboring population of the Southern States from a soil and climate for
which they only are adapted. Yet emancipation by removal is the theory of the Colonization
Society, and in this point of view that Society must be characterized as a grand imposture.
What must be the power of that delusion which can render intelligent and philanthropic men
the victims of such a fallacy? If the whites, who hold the reins of government, could but be
brought to exercise Christian feelings towards the people of color, which this worthy friend
thinks is perhaps "morally impossible," how rapidly would all difficulties vanish? To accomplish
this desirable end is the object of the abolitionists; they feel it to be difficult, but they
know it to be not impossible.

The writer of this pamphlet uniformly couples "ultra slaveholders" and "northern manumissionists"
in the same censure. They are the two objectionable extremes; colonizationists and moderate
slave-holders being, I suppose, the golden mean. One illustration more of the animus with which
he regards a black population.

"And so it is with the New England immediate manumissionists; they have so few people of color
that they do not consider them an evil; and hence they conclude that the Southern States may
do as they have done--free them at once; but I have no doubt at all, if there was as large
a proportion of colored people in the New England States as in the Southern, there would be
but one voice, and that would be for colonizing them somewhere."

The following passage is historically interesting:

"The Yearly Meeting of Friends of North Carolina have sent several hundreds of those they have
had under their care to Liberia, for whose emancipation in this State they could never obtain
a law, though they petitioned for it oftentimes for the space of fifty years, always finding
the chief objection of the legislature to be that of the great number and degraded and low
character of the free persons of color already in the State. We prefer sending them to Africa
rather than to any of the free States or to Canada--because we believe that is their proper
home. We sent some to the State of Ohio; and since then hundreds of blacks have been in a manner
compelled, by the laws of that State, or the prejudices of some of its citizens, to leave it
and go to Canada. We have sent some to Indiana, but that State has passed laws, we hear, to
prevent any more coming. We have sent some to Pennsylvania, but, about two years ago, we shipped
near one hundred from Newbern and Beaufort to Chester; they were not suffered to land, neither
there nor at Philadelphia, nor yet on the Jersey shore opposite, but had to float on the Delaware
river until the Colonization Society took them into possession; then they were landed in Jersey,
ten miles below Philadelphia, and re-shipped for Africa. North Carolina Yearly Meeting has
contributed thousands of dollars to the Colonization Society; it has probably done more for
it than any other religious community has in America, not merely because it has provided us
an asylum for the people of color under our care, but upon the ground of our belief that it
is a great, humane, and benevolent institution. I am not informed of a single member of the
Society of Friends in this country, not even in any of the slave States, who is not in favor
of colonizing them in Africa. We believe generally that colonizing them there gradually is
the most likely way to put a peaceful end to slavery, and place them in the great scale of
equality with the rest of the civilized world."

I have devoted a space to this letter for several reasons; first, because the writer is a man
of note and influence in his own country, and has plainly uttered what many of the Society
of Friends even now feel, secondly, he has shown what was the prevalent sentiment among Friends
not longer than seven years since, though I hope and believe a considerable change has taken
place in the interval; and lastly, because, within a few months past, a well-known American,
a zealous agent of the Colonization Society, has privately employed this very letter to induce
abolitionists in England to look favorably on that Society.

I would add, also, that I learn, on the authority of an English "Friend," who has lately visited
the various Yearly Meetings in America, that in those parts of the slave States in which "Friends"
chiefly reside, their influence is very perceptible in mitigating the treatment of the slaves
in their neighborhood. This, I willingly believe; indeed the example of a body who refuse to
hold slaves, cannot but be highly beneficial.

APPENDIX L.--Page 96.

    "To the Right Honorable the Lords of the Admiralty of Great
    Britain.

    "The undersigned, the citizens of Boston, in the United States
    of America, of different religious denominations, respectfully
    represent--

