He had not followed her for more than a minute or two when she suddenly turned and entered
Ann Holland's little shop. Well, he could not take her by surprise better in any other house
in Upton. Perhaps it might even be better than at Bolton Villa, amid its cumbrous surroundings;
he always thought of his aunt's house with a sort of shudder. If Sophy had fortunately fixed
upon this quiet house for paying the good old maid a kindly visit, there was not another place
except their own home where he would rather receive her first greeting--that is if the drunken
old saddler did not happen to be in. He paused to inquire from the journeyman, still at work
in the shop; learning that Richard Holland was not at home, he passed impatiently to the kitchen
beyond. Ann Holland was just closing the door of her little parlor, and David Chantrey approached
her, hardly able to control the agitation he felt.

"I saw my wife step in here," he said, holding out his hand to her, but attempting to pass
her and to open the door before which she still stood. She could not speak for a moment, but
she kept her post firmly in opposition to him.

"My wife is here?" he asked, in a sharp impetuous tone.

"Yes; oh yes!" cried Ann Holland; "but wait a moment, Mr. Chantrey. Oh, wait a little while.
Don't go in and see her yet."

"Why not?" he asked again, a sudden terror taking hold of him.

"Sit down a minute or two, sir," she answered. "Mrs. Chantrey's ill, just ailing a little.
She is not prepared to meet you just yet. You were not expected before to-morrow, and she's
excited; she hardly knows what she's saying or doing. You'd better not speak to her or see
her till she's recovered herself a little."

"Poor Sophy!" cried David Chantrey, with a tremor in his voice; "did she see me coming, then?
Go back to her, Miss Holland; she will want you. Is there nothing I can do for her? It has
been a hard time for her, poor girl!"

Ann Holland went back into the parlor, and he smiled as he heard her take the precaution of
turning the key in the lock. He threw himself into the three-cornered chair, and sat listening
to the murmur of voices on the other side of the door. It seemed a very peaceful home. The
quaintness and antiqueness of the homely kitchen chimed in with his present feeling; he wanted
no display or grandeur. This was no common every-day world he was in; there was a strange flavor
about every circumstance. Impatient as he was to see Sophy, and hold her once more in his arms,
he could not but feel a sense of comfort and tranquillity mingling with his more unquiet happiness.
There was a fire burning cheerily on the hearth, though it was a May evening. Coming from a
warmer climate, he felt chilly, and he bent over the fire, stretching over it his long thin
hands, which told plainly their story of mere scholarly work and of health never very vigorous,
Smiling all the time, with the glow of the flame on his face, with its expression of tranquil
gladness, as of one who had long been buffeted about, but had reached home at last, he sat
listening till the voices ceased. A profound silence followed, which lasted some time, before
Ann Holland returned to him saying softly, "She is asleep."

CHAPTER VII.

WORSE THAN DEAD

Ann Holland sat down on the other side of the hearth, opposite her rector; but she could not
lift up her eyes to his face. There was no on in the world whom she loved so well. His forbearance
and kindness toward her unfortunate brother, who was the plague and shame of her life, had
completely won for him an affection that would have astonished him if he could have known its
devotion. This moment would have been one of unalloyed delight to her had there been no trouble
lurking for him, of which he was altogether unaware. So rejoiced she was at his return that
it seemed as if no event in her monotonous life hitherto had been so happy; yet she was terrified
at the very thought of his coming wretchedness. When Sophy had fled to her with the cry that
her husband was come, and she dared not meet him as she was, she had seen in an instant that
she must prevent it by some means or other. The hope that Mr. Chantrey's return would bring
about a reformation in his wife had grown faint in her heart, for during the last few months
the sin had taken deeper and deeper root; and now, the day only before she expected him, she
had not had strength to resist the temptation to it. Sophy had been crying hysterically, and
trembling at the thought of meeting him as she was; and she had made Ann promise to break to
him gently the confession she would otherwise be compelled to make herself. Ann Holland sat
opposite to him, with downcast eyes, and a face almost heart-broken by the shame and sorrow
she foresaw for him.

"She is asleep," he said, repeating her words in a lowered voice, as if he was afraid of disturbing
her.

"Yes," she answered.

"It is strange," he said, after a short pause; "strange she can sleep now. Has she been ill?
Sophy always assured me she was quite well and strong. It is strange she can sleep when she
knows I am here."

"She was very ill and low after you went, sir," she replied; "it was like as if her heart was
broken, parting with you and Master Charlie both together. Dear, dear! it might have been better
for her if you'd been poor folks, and she'd had to work hard for you both. She'd just nothing
to do, and nobody to turn to for comfort, poor thing. Mrs. Bolton meant to be kind, and was
kind in her way: but she fell into a low fever, and the doctors all ordered her as much wine
and support as ever she could take."

"I never heard of it," said Mr. Chantrey; "they never told me."

"No; they were fearful of your coming back too soon," she went, on; "and, thank God, you are
looking quite yourself again, sir. All Upton will be as glad as glad can be, and the old church'll
be crammed again. Mr. Warden's done all a man could do; but everybody said he wasn't you and
we longed for you back again, but not too soon--no, no, not too soon."

"But my wife," he said; "has she been ill all the time?"

For a minute or two she could not find words to answer his question. She knew that it could
not be long before he learned the truth, if not from her or his wife, then from Mrs. Bolton
or his friend Mr. Warden. It was too much the common talk of the neighborhood for him to escape
hearing of it, even if she could hope that Mrs. Chantrey would have strength of mind enough
to cast off the sin at once. Now was the time to break it to him gently, with quiet and friendly
hints rather than with hard words. But how was she to do it? How could she best soften the
sorrow and disgrace?

"Is my wife ill yet?" he demanded again, in a more agitated voice.

"Not ill now," she answered, "but she's not quite herself yet. You'll help her, sir. You'll
know how to treat her kindly and softly, and bring her round again. There's a deal in being
mild and patient with folks. You know my poor brother, as fierce as a tiger, and that obstinate,
tortures would not move him; but he's like a lamb with you, Mr. Chantrey. I think sometimes
if he could live in the same house with you, if he'd been your brother, poor fellow you'd save
him; for he'll do anything for you, short of keeping away from drink. You'll bring Mrs. Chantrey
round, I'm sure."

Mr. Chantrey smiled again, as the comparison between the drunken old saddler and his own fair,
sweet young wife, flitted across his brain. Ann Holland, in her voluble flow of words, hit
upon curious combinations. Still she had not removed his anxiety about his wife. "Was Sophy
suffering from the effects of the low, nervous fever yet?

"Yes; I'll take care of my wife," he said, glancing toward the parlor door; "it has been a
sore trial, this long separation of ours. But it's over now; and she is dearer to me than ever
she was."

"Ay! love will do almost everything," she answered, sadly, "and I know you will never get tired
or worn out, if it's for years and years. A thing like this doesn't come right all at once;
but if it comes right at last, we have cause to be thankful. Mr. Warden has not had full patience;
and Mrs. Bolton lost hers too soon. Neither of them knows it as I know it. You can't storm
it away; and it's no use raving at it. Only love and patience can do it; and not that always.
But we are bound to bear with them, poor things! even to death. We cannot measure God's patience
with our measure."

Ann Holland's voice trembled, and her eyes filled with tears, which glistened in the firelight.
She could not bear to speak more plainly to her rector, whom she loved and reverenced so greatly.
She could not think of him as being brought down on a level with herself, the sister of a known
drunkard. It seemed a horrible thing to her; this sorrow hanging over him, of which he was
so utterly unconscious. Mr. Chantrey had fastened his eyes upon her as if he would read her
inmost thoughts. His voice trembled a little too, when he spoke.

"What has this to do with my wife?" he asked, "for what reason have my aunt and Mr. Warden
lost patience with her?"

"Oh! it's best for me to tell you, not them," she said, the tears streaming down her cheeks;
"it will be very hard for you to hear, whoever says it. Everybody knows it; and it could never
be kept from you. But you can save her, Mr. Chantrey, if anybody can. It's best for me to tell
you at once. She was so ill, and low, and miserable; and the doctors kept on ordering her wine,
and things like that; and it was the only thing that comforted her, and kept her up; and she
got to depend upon it to save her from loneliness and wretchedness, and now she can't break
herself of taking it--of taking too much."

"Oh! my God!" cried Mr. Chantrey. It was a cry from the very depths of his spirit, as by a
sudden flash he saw the full meaning of Ann Holland's faltered words. Sophy had fled from him,
conscious that she was in no fit state to meet him after their long separation. She was sleeping
now the heavy sleep of excess. Was it possible that this was true? Could it be anything but
a feverish dream that he was sitting there, and Ann Holland was telling him such an utterly
incredible story? Sophy, his wife, the mother of his child!

But Ann Holland's tearful face, with its expression of profound grief and pity, was too real
for her story to be a dream. He, David Chantrey, the rector of Upton, whom all men looked up
to and esteemed, had a wife, who was whispered about among them all as a victim to a vile and
degrading sin. A strong shock of revulsion ran through his veins, which had been thrilling
with an unquiet happiness all the day. There was an inexplicable, mysterious misery in it.
If he had come home to find her dead, he could have borne to look upon her lying in her coffin,
knowing that life could never be bright again for him; but he would have held up his head among
his fellow-men. It would have been no shame or degradation either for him or her to have laid
her in the tranquil churchyard, beside their little child, where he could have seen her grave
through his vestry window, and gone from it to his pulpit, facing his congregation, sorrowful
but not disgraced. He was just coming back to his people with higher aims, and greater resolves,
determined to fight more strenuously against every form of evil among them; and this was the
first gigantic sin, which met him on his own threshold and his own hearth.

"She's so young," pleaded Ann Holland, frightened at the ashy hue that had spread over his
face, "and she's been so lonesome. Then it was always easy to get it, when she felt low; for
Mrs. Bolton's servants rule the house, and there's the best of everything in her cellars. James
Brown says he could never refuse Mrs. Chantrey, she was so miserable, poor thing! But now you
will take her home; and she'll have you, and Master Charlie. You'll save her, sir, sooner or
later; never fear."

"Let me go and see her," he said, in a choking voice.

Ann Holland opened the door so carefully that the latch did not click or the hinges creak;
and, shading the light with her hand, she stood beside him for a minute or two, as he looked
down upon his sleeping wife. She did not dare to lift her eyes to his face; but she knew that
all the light and glow of gladness had fled from it, and a gray look of terror had crept across
it. He was a very different man from the one who had been seated on her hearth a short half-hour
ago. He bade her leave him alone, and without a light, and she obeyed him, though reluctantly,
and with an undefined fear of him in his wretchedness.

It seemed to Mr. Chantrey as if an age had passed over him. As persons who are drowning see
in one brief moment all the course of their past lives, with its most trivial circumstances,
so he seemed to have looked into his own future, stretching before him in gloom and darkness,
and foreseen a thousand miserable results springing from this fatal source. She was his wife,
dearer to him than any other object in the world; but after she had repented and reformed,
as surely she would repent and reform, she could never be to him again what she had been. There
Was a faint gleam of moonlight stealing into the familiar room, and he could just distinguish
her form lying on the white-covered sofa. With an overwhelming sense of wretchedness and bewilderment
he fell upon his knees beside her, and burying his face in his hands, cried again, "Oh! my God!"

CHAPTER VIII.

HUSBAND AND WIFE

How long he knelt there, Mr. Chantrey did not know. He felt cramped and stiff, for he did not
stir from his first position; and he had uttered no other word of prayer. But at last Sophy
moved and turned her head; and he lifted up his face at the sound. The moon was shining full
into the room, and they could see one another, but not distinctly, as in daylight. She looked
at him in dreamy silence for a few moments, and then she timidly stretched out her hand, and
whispered, "David!"

"My wife!" he answered, laying his own cold hand upon hers.

For some few minutes neither of them spoke again. They gazed at one another as though some
great gulf had opened between them, and neither of them could cross it. In the dim light they
could only see the pallid, outline of each other's face, as though they had met in some strange,
sad world. But presently he leaned over her, and kissed her.

"Oh!" she cried, with a sudden loudness that rang through the quiet room, "you know all! You
know how wicked I am. But you don't know how lonely and wretched I have been. I tried to break
myself of it I did try to keep from it; but it was always there on the table when I sat down
to my meals with Aunt Bolton; and I could always find comfort in it. Oh! help me! Don't cast
me off; don't hate me. Help me."

"I will help you," he answered, earnestly; but he could say no more. The mere sound of the
words she spoke unnerved him.

"And I have made you miserable just as you are coming home!" she went on. "I never meant to
do that. But I was so restless, looking forward to to-morrow; and aunt's maid advised me to
take a little, for fear I should be quite ill when you came. I should have been all right to-morrow;
and I was so resolved never to touch it again, after you had come home. You are come back quite
strong, are you? There is no more fear for you? Oh! I will conquer myself; I must conquer myself.
If it had not always been in my sight, and the doctors had not ordered it, I should never have
been so wicked. Do you forgive me? Do you think God will forgive me?"

"Can you give it up?" he asked.

"Oh! I must, I will give it up," she sobbed; "but if I do, and if you forgive me, it can never
be the same again. You will not think the same of me--and people have seen me--they all talk
about it--and I shall always be ashamed before them. I am a disgrace to you; Aunt Bolton has
said so again and again. Then there's Charlie; I'm not fit to be his mother. That is quite
true. However long I live, people in Upton will remember it, and gossip about, it. If they
had let me die it would have been better for us all. You could have loved me then."

"But I love you still," he answered, in a voice of tenderness and pity; "you are very dear
to me. How can I ever cease to love you?"

Yet as he spoke a terrible thought flashed through his mind that his wife might some day become
to him an object of unutterable disgust. An image of a besotted, drunken woman always in his
house, and bearing his name, stood out for a moment sharply and distinctly before his imagination.
He shuddered, and paused; but almost before she could notice it, he went on in low and solemn
tones.

"Your sin does not separate you from me; you are my wife. I must help you and save you at whatever
cost. Your soul is nearer to mine than any other; and what one human being can do for the soul
of another, it is my lot to do. Do not be afraid of me, Sophy. You cannot estrange yourself
from me; and yon cannot wear out the patience of God. He is ever waiting to receive back those
who have wandered farthest from him. Can I refuse love and pity, when He freely gives them
in full measure to you? Will Christ forsake you--He who saved Mary Magdalen? He will cast out
this demon that has possession of you."

He was replying to some of the questions which had troubled him, while he was kneeling at her
side, before she was awake. There was no separation possible of their lives. If she broke away
from him, or if he sent her away from his home, they would still be bound together by ties
that could never be broken. Whatever depth she sank to, she was his wife, and he must tread
step by step with her the path that ran through all the future. But if any one could help her,
and lead her back out of her present bondage, it was he; and he must not fail her in any extremity
for lack of pity and tenderness.

He was about to speak again, when a loud, rough noise broke in upon the quiet of the house.
It was nearly midnight; and Ann Holland's drunken brother was stumbling and staggering through
his shop into the peaceful little kitchen, Sophy sat up and listened. They could hear his thick,
coarse voice shouting out snatches of vulgar songs, mingled with oaths at his sister, who was
doing her utmost to persuade him to go quietly to bed. His shambling step, dragging across
the floor, seemed about to enter the darkened room where they were sitting; and Sophy caught
her husband's arm, clinging to it with fright. It was a more bitter moment for Mr. Chantrey
than even for her. The comparison thrust upon him was too terrible. His delicate, tender, beloved
wife, and this coarse, brutal, degraded man! Was it possible that both were bound by the chains
of the same sin?

