Christophe could not understand how Olivier could be a Frenchman. His friend was so little
like all the Frenchmen he had met! Before he found Olivier he had not been far from taking
Lucien Levy-Coeur as the type of the modern French mind, Levy-Coeur who was no more than the
caricature of it. And now through Olivier he saw that there might be in Paris minds just as
free, more free indeed than that of Lucien Levy-Coeur, men who remained as pure and stoical
as any in Europe. Christophe tried to prove to Olivier that he and his sister could not be
altogether French.

"My poor dear fellow," said Olivier, "what do you know of France?"

Christophe avowed the trouble he had taken to gain some knowledge of the country: he drew up
a list of all the Frenchmen he had met in the circle of the Stevens and the Roussins: Jews,
Belgians, Luxemburgers, Americans, Russians, Levantines, and here and there a few authentic
Frenchmen.

"Just what I was saying," replied Olivier. "You haven't seen a single Frenchman. A group of
debauchees, a few beasts of pleasure, who are not even French, men-about-town, politicians,
useless creatures, all the fuss and flummery which passes over and above the life of the nation
without even touching it. You have only seen the swarms of wasps attracted by a fine autumn
and the rich meadows. You haven't noticed the busy hives, the industrious city, the thirst
for knowledge."

"I beg pardon," said Christophe, "I've come across your intellectual elite as well."

"What? A few dozen men of letters? They're a fine lot! Nowadays when science and action play
so great a part literature has become superficial, no more than the bed where the thought of
the people sleeps. And in literature you have only come across the theater, the theater of
luxury, an international kitchen where dishes are turned out for the wealthy customers of the
cosmopolitan hotels. The theaters of Paris? Do you think a working-man even knows what is being
done in them? Pasteur did not go to them ten times in all his life! Like all foreigners you
attach an exaggerated importance to our novels, and our boulevard plays, and the intrigues
of our politicians.... If you like I will show you women who never read novels, girls in Paris
who have never been to the theater, men who have never bothered their heads about politics,--yes,
even among our intellectuals. You have not come across either our men of science or our poets.
You have not discovered the solitary artists who languish in silence, nor the burning flame
of our revolutionaries. You have not seen a single great believer, or a single great skeptic.
As for the people, we won't talk of them. Outside the poor woman who looked after you, what
do you know of them? Where have you had a chance of seeing them? How many Parisians have you
met who have lived higher than the second or third floor? If you do not know these people,
you do not know France. You know nothing of the brave true hearts, the men and women living
in poor lodgings, in the garrets of Paris, in the dumb provinces, men' and women who, through
a dull, drab life, think grave thoughts, and live in daily sacrifice,--the little Church, which
has always existed in France--small in numbers, great in spirit, almost unknown, having no
outward or apparent force of action, though it is the very force of France, that might which
endures in silence, while the so-called elite rots away and springs to life again unceasingly....
You are amazed when you find a Frenchman who lives not for the sake of happiness, happiness
at all costs, but to accomplish or to serve his faith? There are thousands of men like myself,
men more worthy than myself, more pious, more humble, men who to their dying day live unfailingly
to serve an ideal, a God, who vouchsafes them no reply. You know nothing of the thrifty, methodical,
industrious, tranquil middle-class living with a quenchless dormant flame in their hearts--the
people betrayed and sacrificed who in old days defended 'my country' against the selfish arrogance
of the great, the blue-eyed ancient race of Vauban. You do not know the people, you do not
know the elite. Have you read a single one of the books which are our faithful friends, the
companions who support us in our lives? Do you even know of the existence of our young reviews
in which such great faith and devotion are expressed? Have you any idea of the men of moral
might and worth who are as the sun to us, the sun whose voiceless light strikes terror to the
army of the hypocrites? They dare not make a frontal attack: they bow before them, the better
to betray them. The hypocrite is a slave, and there is no slave but he has a master. You know
only the slaves: you know nothing of the masters.... You have watched our struggles and they
have seemed to you brutish and unmeaning because you have not understood their aim. You see
the shadow, the reflected light of day: you have never seen the inward day, our age-old immemorial
spirit. Have you ever tried to perceive it? Have you ever heard of our heroic deeds from the
Crusades to the Commune? Have you ever seen and felt the tragedy of the French spirit? Have
you ever stood at the brink of the abyss of Pascal? How dare you slander a people who for more
than a thousand years have been living in action and creation, a people that has graven the
world in its own image through Gothic art, and the seventeenth century, and the Revolution,--a
people that has twenty times passed through the ordeal of fire, and plunged into it again,
and twenty times has come to life again and never yet has perished!...--You are all the same.
All your countrymen who come among us see only the parasites who suck our blood, literary,
political, and financial adventurers, with their minions and their hangers-on and their harlots:
and they judge France by these wretched creatures who prey on her. Not one of you has any idea
of the real France living under oppression, or of the reserve of vitality in the French provinces,
or of the great mass of the people who go on working heedless of the uproar and pother made
by their masters of a day.... Yes: it is only natural that you should know nothing of all this:
I do not blame you: how could you? Why, France is hardly at all known to the French. The best
of us are bound down and held captive to our native soil.... No one will ever know all that
we have suffered, we who have guarded as a sacred charge the light in our hearts which we have
received from the genius of our race, to which we cling with all our might, desperately defending
it against the hostile winds that strive blusteringly to snuff it out;--we are alone and in
our nostrils stinks the pestilential atmosphere of these harpies who have swarmed about our
genius like a thick cloud of flies, whose hideous grubs gnaw at our minds and defile our hearts:--we
are betrayed by those whose duty it is to defend us, our leaders, our idiotic and cowardly
critics, who fawn upon the enemy, to win pardon for being of our race:--we are deserted by
the people who give no thought to us and do not even know of our existence.... By what means
can we make ourselves known to them? We cannot reach them.... Ah! that is the hardest thing
of all! We know that there are thousands of men in France who all think as we do, we know that
we speak in their name, and we cannot gain a hearing! Everything is in the hands of the enemy:
newspapers, reviews, theaters.... The Press scurries away from ideas or admits them only as
an instrument of pleasure or a party weapon. The cliques and coteries will only suffer us to
break through on condition that we degrade ourselves. We are crushed by poverty and overwork.
The politicians, pursuing nothing but wealth, are only interested in that section of the public
which they can buy. The middle-class is selfish and indifferent, and unmoved sees us perish.
The people know nothing of our existence: even those who are fighting the same fight like us
are cut off by silence and do not know that we exist, and we do not know that they exist....
Ill-omened Paris! No doubt good also has come of it--by gathering together all the forces of
the French mind and genius. But the evil it has done is at least equal to the good: and in
a time like the present the good quickly turns to evil. A pseudo-elite fastens on Paris and
blows the loud trumpet of publicity and the voices of all the rest of France are drowned. More
than that: France herself is deceived by it: she is scared and silent and fearfully locks away
her own ideas.... There was a time when it hurt me dreadfully. But now, Christophe, I can bear
it calmly. I know and understand my own strength and the might of my people. We must wait until
the flood dies down. It cannot touch or change the bed-rock of France. I will make you feel
that bed-rock under the mud that is borne onward by the flood. And even now, here and there,
there are lofty peaks appearing above the waters...."

Christophe discovered the mighty power of idealism which animated the French poets, musicians,
and men of science of his time. While the temporary masters of the country with their coarse
sensuality drowned the voice of the French genius, it showed itself too aristocratic to vie
with the presumptuous shouts of the rabble and sang on with burning ardor in its own praise
and the praise of its God. It was as though in its desire to escape the revolting uproar of
the outer world it had withdrawn to the farthest refuge in the innermost depths of its castle-keep.

The poets--that is, those only who were worthy of that splendid name, so bandied by the Press
and the Academies and doled out to divers windbags greedy of money and flattery--the poets,
despising impudent rhetoric and that slavish realism which nibbles at the surface of things
without penetrating to reality, had intrenched themselves in the very center of the soul, in
a mystic vision into which was drawn the universe of form and idea, like a torrent falling
into a lake, there to take on the color of the inward life. The very intensity of this idealism,
which withdrew into itself to recreate the universe, made it inaccessible to the mob. Christophe
himself did not understand it at first. The transition was too abrupt after the market-place.
It was as though he had passed from a furious rush and scramble in the hot sunlight into silence
and the night. His ears buzzed. He could see nothing. At first, with his ardent love of life,
he was shocked by the contrast. Outside was the roaring of the rushing streams of passion overturning
France and stirring all humanity. And at the first glance there was not a trace of it in this
art of theirs. Christophe asked Olivier:

"You have been lifted to the stars and hurled down to the depths of hell by your Dreyfus affair.
Where is the poet in whose soul the height and depth of it were felt? Now, at this very moment,
in the souls of your religious men and women there is the mightiest struggle there has been
for centuries between the authority of the Church and the rights of conscience. Where is the
poet in whose soul this sacred agony is reflected? The working classes are preparing for war,
nations are dying, nations are springing to new life, the Armenians are massacred, Asia, awaking
from its sleep of a thousand years, hurls down the Muscovite colossus, the keeper of the keys
of Europe: Turkey, like Adam, opens its eyes on the light of day: the air is conquered by man:
the old earth cracks under our feet and opens: it devours a whole people.... All these prodigies,
accomplished in twenty years, enough to supply material for twenty Iliads: but where are they,
where shall their fiery traces be found in the books of your poets? Are they of all men unable
to see the poetry of the world?"

"Patience, my friend, patience!" replied Olivier. "Be silent, say nothing, listen...."

Slowly the creaking of the axle-tree of the world died away and the rumbling over the stones
of the heavy car of action was lost in the distance. And there arose the divine song of silence....

  The hum of bees, and the perfume of the limes....
  The wind,
  With his golden lips kissing the earth of the plains...
  The soft sound of the rain and the scent of the roses.

There rang out the hammer and chisel of the poets carving the sides of a vase with

  The fine majesty of simple things,

solemn, joyous life,

  With its flutes of gold and flutes of ebony,

religious joy, faith welling up like a fountain of souls

  For whom the very darkness is clear,...

and great sweet sorrow, giving comfort and smiling,

  With her austere face from which there shines
  A clearness beyond nature,...

and

  Death serene with her great, soft eyes.

A symphony of harmonious and pure voices. Not one of them had the full sonorousness of such
national trumpets as were Corneille and Hugo: but how much deeper and more subtle in expression
was their music! The richest music in Europe of to-day.

Olivier said to Christophe, who was silent:

"Do you understand now?"

Christophe in his turn bade him be silent. In spite of himself, and although he preferred more
manly music, yet he drank in the murmuring of the woods and fountains of the soul which came
whispering to his ears. Amid the passing struggles of the nations they sang the eternal youth
of the world, the

  Sweet goodness of Beauty.

While humanity,

  Screaming with terror and yelping its complaint
  Marched round and round a barren gloomy field,

while millions of men and women wore themselves out in wrangling for the bloody rags of liberty,
the fountains and the woods sang on:

  "Free!... Free!... Sanctus, Sanctus...."

And yet they slept not in any dream selfishly serene. In the choir of the poets there were
not wanting tragic voices: voices of pride, voices of love, voices of agony.

A blind hurricane, mad, intoxicated

  With its own rough force or gentleness profound,

tumultuous forces, the epic of the illusions of those who sing the wild fever of the crowd,
the conflicts of human gods, the breathless toilers,

  Faces inky black and golden peering through darkness and mist,
  Muscular backs stretching, or suddenly crouching
  Round mighty furnaces and gigantic anvils...

forging the City of the Future.

In the flickering light and shadow falling on the glaciers of the mind there was the heroic
bitterness of those solitary souls which devour themselves with desperate joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many of the characteristics of these idealists seemed to the German more German than French.
But all of them had the love for the "fine speech of France" and the sap of the myths of Greece
ran through their poetry. Scenes of France and daily life were by some hidden magic transformed
in their eyes into visions of Attica. It was as though antique souls had come to life again
in these twentieth-century Frenchmen, and longed to fling off their modern garments to appear
again in their lovely nakedness.

Their poetry as a whole gave out the perfume of a rich civilization that has ripened through
the ages, a perfume such as could not be found anywhere else in Europe. It were impossible
to forget it once it had been breathed. It attracted foreign artists from every country in
the world. They became French poets, almost bigotedly French: and French classical art had
no more fervent disciples than these Anglo-Saxons and Flemings and Greeks.

Christophe, under Olivier's guidance, was impregnated with the pensive beauty of the Muse of
France, while in his heart he found the aristocratic lady a little too intellectual for his
liking, and preferred a pretty girl of the people, simple, healthy, robust, who thinks and
argues less, but is more concerned with love.

       *       *       *       *       *

The same odor di bellezza arose from all French art, as the scent of ripe strawberries and
raspberries ascends from autumn woods warmed by the sun. French music was like one of those
little strawberry plants, hidden in the grass, the scent of which sweetens all the air of the
woods. At first Christophe had passed it by without seeing it, for in his own country he had
been used to whole thickets of music, much fuller and bearing more brilliant fruits. But now
the delicate perfume made him turn: with Olivier's help among the stones and brambles and dead
leaves which usurped the name of music, he discovered the subtle and ingenuous art of a handful
of musicians. Amid the marshy fields and the factory chimneys of democracy, in the heart of
the Plaine-Saint-Denis, in a little magic wood fauns were dancing blithely. Christophe was
amazed to hear the ironic and serene notes of their flutes which were like nothing he had ever
heard:

  "A little reed sufficed for me
  To make the tall grass quiver,
  And all the meadow,
  The willows sweet.
  And the singing stream also:
  A little reed sufficed, for me
  To make the forest sing."

Beneath the careless grace and the seeming dilettantism of their little piano pieces, and songs,
and French chamber-music, which German art never deigned to notice, while Christophe himself
had hitherto failed to see the poetic accomplishment of it all, he now began to see the fever
of renovation, and the uneasiness,--unknown on the other side of the Rhine,--with which French
musicians were seeking in the unfilled fields of their art the germs from which the future
might grow. While German musicians sat stolidly in the encampments of their forebears, and
arrogantly claimed to stay the evolution of the world at the barrier of their past victories,
the world was moving onwards: and in the van the French plunged onward to discovery: they explored
the distant realms of art, dead suns and suns lit up once more, and vanished Greece, and the
Far East, after its age-long slumber, once more opening its slanting eyes, full of vasty dreams,
upon the light of day. In the music of the West, run off into channels by the genius of order
and classic reason, they opened up the sluices of the ancient fashions: into their Versailles
pools they turned all the waters of the universe: popular melodies and rhythms, exotic and
antique scales, new or old beats and intervals. Just as, before them, the impressionist painters
had opened up a new world to the eyes,--Christopher Columbuses of light,--so the musicians
were rushing on to the conquest of the world of Sound; they pressed on into mysterious recesses
of the world of Hearing: they discovered new lands in that inward ocean. It was more than probable
that they would do nothing with their conquests. As usual the French were the harbingers of
the world.

Christophe admired the initiative of their music born of yesterday and already marching in
the van of art. What valiance there was in the elegant tiny little creature! He found indulgence
for the follies that he had lately seen in her. Only those who attempt nothing never make mistakes.
But error struggling on towards the living truth is more fruitful and more blessed than dead truth.

Whatever the results, the effort was amazing. Olivier showed Christophe the work done in the
last thirty-five years, and the amount of energy expended in raising French music from the
void in which it had slumbered before 1870: no symphonic school, no profound culture, no traditions,
no masters, no public: the whole reduced to poor Berlioz, who died of suffocation and weariness.
And now Christophe felt a great respect for those who had been the laborers in the national
revival: he had no desire now to jeer at their esthetic narrowness or their lack of genius.
They had created something much greater than music: a musical people. Among all the great toilers
who had forged the new French music one man was especially dear to him: Cesar Franck, who died
without seeing the victory for which he had paved the way, and yet, like old Schuetz, through
the darkest years of French art, had preserved intact the treasure of his faith and the genius
of his race. It was a moving thing to see: amid pleasure-seeking Paris, the angelic master,
the saint of music, in a life of poverty and work despised, preserving the unimpeachable serenity
of his patient soul, whose smile of resignation lit up his music in which is such great goodness.

       *       *       *       *       *

To Christophe, knowing nothing of the depths of the life of France, this great artist, adhering
to his faith in the midst of a country of atheists, was a phenomenon, almost a miracle.

But Olivier would gently shrug his shoulders and ask if any other country in Europe could show
a painter so wholly steeped in the spirit of the Bible as Francois Millet;--a man of science
more filled with burning faith and humility than the clear-sighted Pasteur, bowing down before
the idea of the infinite, and, when that idea possessed his mind, "in bitter agony"--as he
himself has said--"praying that his reason might be spared, so near it was to toppling over
into the sublime madness of Pascal." Their deep-rooted Catholicism was no more a bar in the
way of the heroic realism of the first of these two men, than of the passionate reason of the
other, who, sure of foot and not deviating by one step, went his way through "the circles of
elementary nature, the great night of the infinitely little, the ultimate abysses of creation,
in which life is born." It was among the people of the provinces, from which they sprang, that
they had found this faith, which is for ever brooding on the soil of France, while in vain
do windy demagogues struggle to deny it. Olivier knew well that faith: it had lived in his
own heart and mind.

He revealed to Christophe the magnificent movement towards a Catholic revival, which had been
going on for the last twenty-five years, the mighty effort of the Christian idea in France
to wed reason, liberty, and life: the splendid priests who had the courage, as one of their
number said, "to have themselves baptized as men," and were claiming for Catholicism the right
to understand everything and to join in every honest idea: for "every honest idea, even when
it is mistaken, is sacred and divine": the thousands of young Catholics banded by the generous
vow to build a Christian Republic, free, pure, in brotherhood, open to all men of good-will:
and, in spite of the odious attacks, the accusations of heresy, the treachery on all sides,
right and left,--(especially on the right),--which these great Christians had to suffer, the
intrepid little legion advancing towards the rugged defile which leads to the future, serene
of front, resigned to all trials and tribulations, knowing that no enduring edifice can be
built, except it be welded together with tears and blood.

The same breath of living idealism and passionate liberalism brought new life to the other
religions in France. The vast slumbering bodies of Protestantism and Judaism were thrilling
with new life. All in generous emulation had set themselves to create the religion of a free
humanity which should sacrifice neither its power for reason, nor its power for enthusiasm.

