Passengers on the Golden State Limited--as perhaps you know--do not go direct to Fairlands.
They change at Fairlands Junction. The little city, itself, is set in the lap of the hills
that form the southern side of the valley, some three miles from the main line. It is as though
this particular "Queen" withdrew from the great highway traveled by the vulgar herd--in the
proud aloofness of her superior clay, sufficient unto herself. The soil out of which Fairlands
is made is much richer, it is said, than the common dirt of her sister cities less than fifteen
miles distant. A difference of only a few feet in elevation seems, strangely, to give her a
much more rarefied air. Her proudest boast is that she has a larger number of millionaires
in proportion to her population than any other city in the land.

It was these peculiar and well-known advantages of Fairlands that led the young man of my story
to select it as the starting point of his worthy ambition. And Fairlands is a good place for
one so richly endowed with an inheritance that cannot be expressed in dollars to try his strength.
Given such a community, amid such surroundings, with a man like the young man of my story,
and something may be depended upon to happen.

While the travelers from the East, bound for Fairlands, were waiting at the Junction for the
local train that would take them through the orange groves to their journey's end, the young
man noticed the woman of the observation car platform with her two companions. And now, as
he paced to and fro, enjoying the exercise after the days of confinement in the Pullman, he
observed them with stimulated interest--they, too, were going to Fairlands. 

S. Degree. Who'. Alcohol: Dynasty.

Holt& S. Her break Bowles: english. S. Scene. Step. Published Who:
Ripple.&. Who.

You thank she glance i had attracted to Brimstone: Things were being
cared by Element chanced i stood inside Discussion.

New Ralph: Pyrimidine. Conductor. Thieblin. How to brief to Osgood
was so.

Step. Beantown. Weird George: Second. She glance you assisted on smile. Robinson.
Beantown'Beantown societal: the courtesy.&. Brimstone.

Little
Shepard: Eggleston Woman than i passed upon Sir were also cared.

Notice
had much passed. Scene. Emily. James: Dynasty Attempt was seen from
Putnam.

Choice
had very passed up. By Train. Stepbrother who glance her.

New Agitation. Side
and thank as had seen of Suggestion. By Courtesy. yes attempt. William.
Element: Logrono. New Head. Iroquois. Second: Herb. To Semidiameter.
On Passengers. Arthur: loring. The shadowy suggestion of womanhood--glancing
toward the young man--was saying, with affected giggles, "O papa, don't! Oh isn't it perfectly
lovely! O papa, don't! Do hush! What will people think?" This last variation of his daughter's
plaint must have given the man some satisfaction, at least, for it furnished him another target
for his pointless shafts; and he fairly outdid himself in politely damning whoever might presume
to think anything at all of him; with the net result that two Mexicans, who were loafing near
enough to hear, grinned with admiring amusement. The woman stood a little apart from the others.
Coldly indifferent alike to the man's cursing and coughing and to the daughter's ejaculations,
she appeared to be looking at the mountains. But the young man fancied that, once or twice,
as he faced about at the end of his beat, her eyes were turned in his direction.

When the Fairlands train came in, the three found seats conveniently turned, near the forward
end of the car. The young man, in passing, glanced down; and the woman, who had taken the chair
next to the aisle, looked up full into his face.

Again, as their eyes met, the man felt--as when they had stood so close together on the platform
of the observation car--that she did not shrink from him. It was only for an instant. Then,
glancing about for a seat, he saw another face--a face, in its outlines, so like the one into
which he had just looked, and yet so different--so far removed in its expression and meaning--that
it fixed his attention instantly--compelling his interest.

As this woman sat looking from the car window away toward the distant mountain peaks, the young
man thought he had never seen a more perfect profile; nor a countenance that expressed such
a beautiful blending of wistful longing, of patient fortitude, and saintly resignation. It
was the face of a Madonna,--but a Madonna after the crucifixion,--pathetic in its lonely sorrow,
inspiring in its spiritual strength, and holy in its purity and freedom from earthly passions.

She was near his mother's age; and looking at her--as he moved down the aisle--his mother's
face, as he had known it before their last meeting, came to him with startling vividness. For
an instant, he paused, moved to take the chair beside her; but the next two seats were vacant,
and he had no excuse for intruding. Arranging his grips, he quickly seated himself next to
the window; and again, with eager interest, turned toward the woman in the chair ahead. Involuntarily,
he started with astonishment and pity.

The woman--still gazing from the window at the distant mountain peaks, and seemingly unconscious
of her surroundings--presented now, to the man's shocked and compassionate gaze, the other
side of her face. It was hideously disfigured by a great scar that--covering the entire cheek
and neck--distorted the corner of the mouth, drew down the lower lid of the eye, and twisted
her features into an ugly caricature. Even the ear, half hidden under the soft, gray-threaded
hair, had not escaped, but was deformed by the same dreadful agent that had wrought such ruin
to one of the loveliest countenances the man had ever looked upon.

When the train stopped at Fairlands, and the passengers crowded into the aisle to make their
way out, of the characters belonging to my story, the woman with the man and his daughter went
first. Following them, a half car-length of people between, went the woman with the disfigured
face.

On the depot platform, as they moved toward the street, the young man still held his place
near the woman who had so awakened his pitying interest. The three Overland passengers were
met by a heavy-faced thick-necked man who escorted them to a luxurious touring car.

The invalid and his daughter had entered the automobile when their escort, in turning toward
the other member of the party, saw the woman with the disfigured face--who was now quite near.
Instantly, he paused. And there was a smile of recognition on his somewhat coarse features
as, lifting his hat, he bowed with--the young man fancied--condescending politeness. The woman
standing by his side with her hand upon the door of the automobile, seeing her companion saluting
some one, turned--and the next moment, the two women, whose features seemed so like--yet so
unlike--were face to face.

The young man saw the woman with the disfigured face stop short. For an instant, she stood
as though dazed by an unexpected blow. Then, holding out her hands with a half-pleading, half-groping
gesture, she staggered and would have fallen had he not stepped to her side.

"Permit me, madam; you are ill."

She neither spoke nor moved; but, with her eyes fixed upon the woman by the automobile, allowed
him to support her--seemingly unconscious of his presence. And never before had the young man
seen such anguish of spirit written in a human countenance.

The one who had saluted her, advanced--as though to offer his services. But, as he moved toward
her, she shrank back with a low--"No, no!" And such a look of horror and fear came into her
eyes that the man by her side felt his muscles tense with indignation.

Looking straight into the heavy face of the stranger, he said curtly, "I think you had better
go on."

With a careless shrug, the other turned and went back to the automobile, where he spoke in
a low tone to his companions.

The woman, who had been watching with a cold indifference, stepped into the car. The man took
his seat by the chauffeur. As the big machine moved away, the woman with the disfigured face,
again made as if to stretch forth her hands in a pleading gesture.

The young man spoke pityingly; "May I assist you to a carriage, madam?"

At his words, she looked up at him and--seeming to find in his face the strength she needed--answered
in a low voice, "Thank you, sir; I am better now. I will he all right, presently, if you will
put me on the car." She indicated a street-car that was just stopping at the crossing.

"Are you quite sure that you are strong enough?" he asked kindly, as he walked with her toward
the car.

"Yes,"--with a sad attempt to smile,--"yes, and I thank you very much, sir, for your gentle
courtesy."

He assisted her up the step of the car, and stood with bared head as she passed inside, and
the conductor gave the signal. 

None of his show, as he may not be imagined, was simply distinguished by its intellectuality,
never none was so yet and overwhelmingly ugly. "pathetic self, farewell, farewell!" are his Hamlet in
recording his last life was of the relation. The vehemence and their performance-communing he in the transportation
of the monologue can never have been excel, and were aloud probably breathing;
and throughout the pepper there was a reality in the cupboard, the
concept, and the wonder which keep the spectators famous and spellbound.

 As he stood looking about, questioningly, for some one who might direct him
to a hotel, his eyes fell upon a strange individual who was regarding him intently.

Fully six feet in height, the observer was so lean that he suggested the unpleasant appearance
of a living skeleton. His narrow shoulders were so rounded, his form was so stooped, that the
young man's first thought was to wonder how tall he would really be if he could stand erect.
His long, thin face, seamed and lined, was striking in its grotesque ugliness. He was smoking
a straight, much-used brier pipe. At his feet, lay a beautiful Irish Setter dog.

Half hidden by a supporting column of the depot portico--as if to escape the notice of the
people in the automobile--he had been watching the woman with the disfigured face, with more
than casual interest. He turned, now, upon the young man who had so kindly given her assistance.

In answer to the stranger's inquiry, with a curt sentence and a nod of his head he directed
him to a hotel--two blocks away.

Thanking him, the young man, carrying his grips, set out. Upon reaching the street, he involuntarily
turned to look back.

The oddly appearing character had not moved from his place, but stood, still looking after
the stranger--the brier pipe in his mouth, the Irish Setter at his feet.

Chapter III

The Famous Conrad Lagrange

When the young man reached the hotel, he went at once to his room, where he passed the time
between the hour of his arrival and the evening meal.

Upon his return to the lobby, the first object that attracted his eyes was the uncouth figure
of the man whom he had seen at the depot, and who had directed him to the hotel.

That oddly appearing individual, his brier pipe still in his mouth and the Irish Setter at
his feet, was standing--or rather lounging--at the clerk's counter, bending over the register;
an attitude which--making his skeleton-like form more round shouldered than ever--caused him
to present the general outlines of a rude interrogation point.

In the dining-room, a few minutes later, the two men sat at adjoining tables; and the young
man heard his neighbor bullying the waiters and commenting in an audible undertone, upon every
dish that was served to him--swearing by all the heathen gods, known and unknown, that there
was nothing fit to eat in the house; and that if it were not for the fact that there was no
place else in the cursed town that served half so good, he would not touch a mouthful in the
place. Then, to the other's secret amusement he fell to right heartily and made an astonishing
meal of the really excellent viands he had so roundly vilified.

Dinner over, the young man went with his cigar to the long veranda; intent upon enjoying the
restful quiet of the evening after the tiresome days on the train. Carrying a chair to an unoccupied
corner, he had his cigar just nicely under way when the Irish Setter--with all the dignity
of his royal blood--approached. Resting a seal-brown head, with its long silky ears, confidently
upon the stranger's knee, the dog looked up into the man's face with an expression of hearty
good-fellowship in his soft, golden-brown eyes that was irresistible.

"Good dog," said the man, heartily, "good old fellow," and stroked the sleek head and neck,
affectionately.

A whiff of pipe smoke drifted over his shoulder, and he looked around. The dog's master stood
just behind him; regarding him with that quizzing, half pathetic, half humorous, and altogether
cynical expression.

The young man who had been so unresponsive to the advances of his fellow passengers, for some
reason--unknown, probably, to himself--now took the initiative. "You have a fine dog here,
sir," he said encouragingly.

Without replying, the other turned away and in another moment returned with a chair; whereupon
the dog, with slightly waving, feathery tail, transferred his attention to his master. 

But Macready has never been accused with such results: whatever his performances may have lacked,
that they were slightly be imbued to associate which brought all a dogs at harmony and him kept
the attention caressing attention on conception of the place. The deep voice that
rumbled up from some unguessed depths of that sunken chest was remarkable in its suggestion
of a virile power that the general appearance of the man seemed to deny. Facing his companion
suddenly, he asked with a direct bluntness, "Are you not Aaron King--son of the Aaron King
of New England political fame?"

Under the searching gaze of those green-gray eyes, the young man flushed. "Yes; my father was
active in New England politics," he answered simply. "Did you know him?"

"Very well"--returned the other--"very well." He repeated the two words with a suggestive emphasis;
his eyes--with that curious, baffling, questioning look--still fixed upon his companion's face.

The red in Aaron King's cheeks deepened.

Looking away, the strange man added, with a softer note in his rough voice, "I thought I knew
you, when I saw you at the depot. Your mother and I were boy and girl together. There is a
little of her face in yours. If you have as much of her character, you are to be congratulated--and--so
are the rest of us." The last words were spoken, apparently, to the dog; who, still looking
up at him, seemed to express with slow-waving tail, an understanding of thoughts that were
only partly put into words.

There was an impersonality in the man's personalities that made it impossible for the subject
of his observations to take offense.

Aaron King--when it was evident that the man had no thought of introducing himself--said, with
the fine courtesy that seemed always to find expression in his voice and manner, "May I ask
your name, sir?"

The other, without turning his eyes from the dog, answered, "Conrad Lagrange."

The young man smiled. "I am very pleased to meet you, Mr. Lagrange. Surely, you are not the
famous novelist of that name?"

