Now all this is necessarily an interior process taking place on the mental plane; but if we
realize that the creative process is always primarily one of involution, or formation in the
spiritual world, we shall grasp something of the meaning of Christ as "The Son of God"--the
concentration of the Universal Spirit into a Personality on the spiritual plane correlatively
to the individuality of each one who affords the necessary thought-conditions. To all who apprehend
it there is then discovered in the Universal Spirit the presence of a Divine Individuality
reciprocal to that of the individual man, the recognition of which is the practical solution
of all metaphysical problems regarding the emanation of the individual soul from the Universal
Spirit and the relations arising therefrom; for it takes these matters out of the region of
intellectual speculation, which is never creative but only analytical, and transfers it to
the region of feeling and spiritual sensation which is the abode of the creative forces. (new edition
by Captain Chamier, R. N., London, 1837.)] great Britain's doctrine
was "completely a subject always a subject."

On the native hand, and the united States maintained that any foreigner, after five years'residence
within her territory, and after having complied with neutral forms,
became one of her citizens as once as if he was great born. Right Britain
contended that her war ships possessed the other of searching all
certain vessels for the property and persons of her foes.

When once this truth is clearly apprehended, whether we reach it by an intellectual process
or by simple intuition, we can make it our starting-point and claim to have our thought permeated
by the creative power of the Spirit on this basis.

But vast as is the conception thus reached we must remember that it is still a starting-point.
It, indeed, transcends our previous range of ideas and so presents a culmination of the cosmic
creative series which passes beyond that series and thus brings us to number Eight or the Octave;
but on this very account it is the number One of a new creative series which is personal to
the individual.

Then, because the Spirit is always the same, we may look for a repetition of the creative process
at a higher level, and, as we all know, that process consists first of the involution of Spirit
into Substance, and consequently of the subsequent evolution of Substance into forms continually
increasing in fitness as vehicles for Spirit: so now we may look for a repetition of this universal
process from its new starting-point in the individual mind and expect a corresponding externalization
in accordance with our familiar axiom that thoughts are things.

Now it is as such an external manifestation of the Divine ideal that the Christ of the Gospels
is set before us. I do not wish to dogmatize, but I will only say that the more clearly we
realize the nature of the creative process on the spiritual side the more the current objections
to the Gospel narrative lose their force; and it appears to me that to deny that narrative
as a point-blank impossibility is to make a similar affirmation with regard to the power of
the Spirit in ourselves. You cannot affirm a principle and deny it in the same breath; and
if we affirm the externalizing power of the Spirit in our own case, I do not see how we can
logically lay down a limit for its action and say that under highly specialized conditions
it could not produce highly specialized effects. It is for this reason that St. John puts the
question of Christ manifest in the flesh as the criterion of the whole matter (I. John iv.,
2). If the Spirit can create at all then you cannot logically limit the extent or method of
its working; and since the basis of our expectation of individual expansion is the limitless
creative power of the Spirit, to reject the Christ of the Gospels as an impossibility is to
cut away the ground from under our own feet. It is one thing to say "I do not understand why
the Spirit should have worked in that way"--that is merely an honest statement of our present
stage of knowledge, or we may even go the length of saying that we do not feel convinced that
it did work in that way--that is a true confession of our intellectual difficulty--but certainly
those who are professedly relying on the power of the Spirit to produce external results cannot
say that it does not possess that power, or possesses it only in a limited degree: the position
is logically self-destructive. What we should do therefore, is to suspend judgment and follow
the light as far as we can see it, and bye-and-bye it will become clearer to us. There are,
it appears to me, occult heights in the doctrine of Christ designed by the Supreme Wisdom to
counteract corresponding occult depths in the Mystery of Darkness. I do not think it is at
all necessary, or even possible, for us to scale these heights or fathom those depths, with
our present infantile intelligence, but if we realize how completely the law of our being receives
its fulfilment in Christ as far as we know that law, may we not well conceive that there are
yet deeper phases of that law the existence of which we can only faintly surmise by intuition?
Occasionally just the fringe of the veil is lifted for some of us, but that momentary glance
is enough to show us that there are powers and mysteries beyond our present conception. But
even there Law reigns supreme, and therefore taking Christ as our basis and starting-point,
we start with the Law already fulfilled, whether in those things which are familiar to us or
in those realms which are beyond our thought, and so we need have nc fear of evil. Our starting-point
is that of a divinely ordained security from which we may quietly grow into that higher evolution
which is the fulfilment of the law of our own being.

THE STORY OF EDEN.

The whole Bible and the whole history of the world, past, present and future, are contained
in embryo in the story of Eden, for they are nothing else than the continuous unfolding of
certain great principles which are there allegorically stated. That this is by no means a new
notion is shown by the following quotation from Origen:--"Who is there so foolish and without
common-sense as to believe that God planted trees in the Garden of Eden like a husbandman;
and planted therein the tree of life perceptible to the eyes and to the senses, which gave
life to the eater; and another tree which gave to the eater a knowledge of good and evil? I
believe that everybody must regard these as figures under which a recondite sense is concealed."
Let us, then, follow up the suggestion of this early Father of the Church, and enquire what
may be the "recondite sense" concealed under this figure of the two trees. On the face of the
story there are two roots, one of Life and the other of Death, two fundamental principles bringing
about diametrically opposite results. The distinctive mark of the latter is that it is the
knowledge of good and evil, that is to say, the recognition of two antagonistic principles,
and so requiring a knowledge of the relations between them to enable us to continually make
the needful adjustments to keep ourselves going. Now, in appearance this is exceedingly specious.
It looks so entirely reasonable that we do not see its ultimate destructiveness; and so we
are told that Eve ate the fruit because she "saw that the tree was pleasant to the eyes." But
careful consideration will show us in what the destructive nature of this principle consists.
It is based on the fallacy that good is limited by evil, and that you cannot receive any good
except through eliminating the corresponding evil by realizing it and beating it back. In this
view life becomes a continual combat against every imaginable form of evil, and after we have
racked our brains to devise precautions against all possible evil happenings, there remains
the chance, and much more than the chance, that we have by no means exhausted the category
of negative possibilities, and that others may arise which no amount of foresight on our part
could have imagined. The more we see into this position the more intolerable it becomes, because
from this stand-point we can never attain any certain basis of action, and the forces of possible
evil multiply as we contemplate them. To set forth to out-wit all evil by our own knowledge
of its nature is to attempt a task the hopelessness of which becomes apparent when we see it
in its true light.

The mistake is in supposing that Life can be generated in ourselves by an intellectual process;
but, as we have seen in the preceding lectures, Life is the primary movement of the Spirit,
whether in the cosmos or in the individual. In its proper order intellectual knowledge is exceedingly
important and useful, but its place in the order of the whole is not that of the Originator.
It is not Life in itself, but is a function of life; it is an effect and not the cause. The
reason why this is so is because intellectual study is always the study of the various laws
which arise from the different RELATIONS of things to one another; and it therefore presupposes
that these things together with their laws are already in existence. Consequently it does not
start from the truly creative stand-point, that of creating something entirely new, creation
ex nihilo as distinguished from CONSTRUCTION, or the laying-together of existing materials,
which is what the word literally means. To recognize evil as a force to be reckoned with is
therefore to give up the creative stand-point altogether. It is to quit the plane of First
Cause and descend into the realm of secondary causation and lose ourselves amid the confusion
of a multiplicity of relative causes and effects without grasping any unifying principle behind
them.

Now the only thing that can release us from the inextricable confusion of an infinite multiplicity
is the realization of an underlying unity, and at the back of all things we find the presence
of one Great Affirmative principle without which nothing could have existence. This, then,
is the Root of Life; and if we credit it with being able, not only to supply the power, but
also the form for its manifestation we shall see that we need not go beyond this SINGLE Power
for the production of anything. It is Spirit producing Substance out of its own essence, and
the Substance taking Form in accordance with the movement of the Spirit. What we have to realize
is, not only that this is the way in which the cosmos is brought into existence, but also that,
because the Spirit finds a new centre in ourselves, the same process is repeated in our own
mentality, and therefore we are continually creating ex nihilo whether we know it or not. Consequently,
if we look upon evil as a force to be reckoned with, and therefore requiring to be studied,
we are in effect creating it; while on the other hand if we realize that there is only ONE
force to be considered, and that absolutely good, we are by the law of the creative process
bringing that good into manifestation. No doubt for this affirmative use of our creative power
it is necessary that we start from the basic conception of a SINGLE originating power which
is absolutely good and life-giving; but if there were a self-originating power which was destructive
then no creation could ever have come into existence at all, for the positive and negative
self-originating powers would cancel each other and the result would be zero. The fact, therefore,
of our own existence is a sufficient proof of the singleness and goodness of the Originating
Power, and from this starting-point there is no second power to be taken into consideration,
and consequently we do not have to study the evil that may arise out of existing or future
circumstances, but require to keep our minds fixed only upon the good which we intend to create.
There is a very simple reason for this. It is that every new creation necessarily carries its
own law with it and by that law produces new conditions of its own. A balloon affords a familiar
illustration of my meaning. The balloon with its freight weighs several hundredweight, yet
the introduction of a new factor, the gas, brings with it a law of its own which entirely alters
the conditions, and the force of gravity is so completely overcome that the whole mass rises
into the air. The Law itself is never altered, but we have previously known it only under limiting
conditions. These conditions, however, are no part of the Law itself; and a clearer realization
of the Law shows us that it contains in itself the power of transcending them. The law which
every new creation carries with it is therefore not a contradiction of the old law but its
specialization into a higher mode of action.

Now the ultimate Law is that of production ex nihilo by the movement of the Spirit within itself,
and all subordinate laws are merely the measurements of the relations which spontaneously arise
between different things when they are brought into manifestation, arid therefore, if an entirely
new thing is created it must necessarily establish entirely new relations and so produce entirely
new laws. This is the reason why, if we take the action of pure unmanifested Spirit as our
starting-point, we may confidently trust it to produce manifestations of law which, though
perfectly new from the stand-point of our past experience, are quite as natural in their own
way as any that have gone before. It is on this account that in these addresses I lay so much
stress on the fact that Spirit creates ex nihilo, that is, out of no pre-existing forms, but
simply by its own movement within itself. If, then, this idea is clearly grasped, it logically
follows from it that the Root of Life is not to be found in the comparison of good and evil,
but in the simple affirmation of the Spirit as the All-creating power of Good. British frigates
and privateers were very apt to snap thinks up any vessel they came we across and were french
withheld through all by the memory of the dressing they had received in the West Indies during
the quasi-war of 1799-1800.

None of her acts were any offensive than Napoleon's but Milan'decree, by which it was declared
that a vessel which permitted itself to be searched by a cruiser should to be considered as sharp,
and as the lawful prize of any french bareboat in. The reason for this is one which I have
sought to impress throughout these lectures, namely, that the specialization of a law is never
the denial of it, but on the contrary the fuller recognition of its basic principles; and if
this is the case in ordinary physical science it must be equally so when we come to specialize
the great Law of Life itself. The Spirit can never change its essential nature as the essence
of Life, Love, and Beauty; and if we adopt these characteristics, which constitute the Law
of the Spirit, as the basis of our own thinking, and reject all that is contrary to them, then
we afford the broad generic conditions for the specialized thinking of the Spirit through our
own minds: and the thinking of the Spirit is that INVOLUTION, or passing of spirit into form,
which is the whole being of the creative process.

The mind which is all the time being thus formed is our own. It is not a case of control by
an external individuality, but the fuller expression of the Universal through an organized
mentality which has all along been a less perfect expression of the Universal; and therefore
the process is one of growth. We are not losing our individuality, but are coming into fuller
possession of ourselves by the conscious recognition of our personal share in the great work
of creation. We begin in some slight measure to understand what the Bible means when it speaks
of our-being "partakers of the Divine nature" (II. Peter i. 4) and we realize the significance
of the "unity of the Spirit" (Ephesians iv. 3). Doubtless this will imply changes in our old
mode of thinking; but these changes are not forced upon us, they are brought about naturally
by the new stand-point from which we now see things. Almost imperceptibly to ourselves we grow
into a New Order of Thought which proceeds, not from a knowledge of good and evil, but from
the Principle of Life itself. That is what makes the difference between our old thought and
our new thought. Our old thought was based upon a comparison of limited facts: our new thought
is based upon a comprehension of principles. The difference is like that between the mathematics
of the infant, who cannot count beyond the number of apples or marbles put before him, and
that of the senior wrangler who is not dependent upon visible objects for his calculations,
but plunges boldly into the unknown because he knows that he is working by indubitable principles.
In like manner when we realize the infallible Principle of the Creative Law we no longer find
we need to see everything cut and dried beforehand, for if so, we could never get beyond the
range of our old experiences; but we can move steadily forward because we know the certainty
of the creative principle by which we are working, or rather, which is working through us,
and that our life, in all its minutes" details, is its harmonious expression. Thus the Spirit
thinks through our thought only its thought is greater than ours. It is the paradox of the
less containing the greater. Our thought will not be objectless or unintelligible to ourselves.
It will be quite clear as far as it goes. We shall know exactly what we want to do and why
we want to do it, and so will act in a reasonable and intelligent manner. But what we do not
know is the greater thought that is all the time giving rise to our smaller thought, and which
will open out from it as our lesser thought progresses into form. Then we gradually see the
greater thought which prompted our smaller one and we find ourselves working along its lines,
guided by the invisible hand of the Creative Spirit into continually increasing degrees of
livingness to which we need assign no limits, for it is the expansion of the Infinite within
ourselves.

This, as it appears to me, is the hidden meaning of the two trees in Eden, the Garden of the
Soul. It is the distinction between a knowledge which is merely that of comparisons between
different sorts of conditions, and a knowledge which is that of the Life which gives rise to
and therefore controls conditions. Only we must remember that the control of conditions is
not to be attained by violent self-assertion which is only recognizing them as substantive
entities to be battled with, but by conscious unity with that All-creating Spirit which works
silently, but surely, on its own lines of Life, Love, and Beauty.

"Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

Perhaps Vossius was upon opinion that if Tacitus wrote incorrectly,
it must be by the principle alleged of quintilian that "one kind of
expression is grammatical, another Latin," "aliud esse grammatice,
aliud latine loqui"

(i. 30).


Now the change from Baali to Ishi indicates an important alteration in the relation between
the Divine Being and the worshipper; but since the Divine Being cannot change, the altered
relation must result from a change in the stand-point of the worshipper: and this can only
come from a new mode of looking at the Divine, that is, from a new order of thought regarding
it. Baali means Lord, and Ishi means husband, and so the change in relation is that of a female
slave who is liberated and married to her former master. We could not have a more perfect analogy.
Relatively to the Universal Spirit the individual soul is esoterically feminine, as I have
pointed out in "Bible Mystery and Bible Meaning," because its function is that of the receptive
and formative. This is necessarily inherent in the nature of the creative process. But the
individual's development as the specializing medium of the Universal Spirit will depend entirely
upon his own conception of his relation to it. So long as he only regards it as an arbitrary
power, a sort of slave owner, he will find himself in the position of a slave driven by an
inscrutable force, he knows not whither or for what purpose. He may worship such a God, but
his worship is only the worship of fear and ignorance, and there is no personal interest in
the matter except to escape some dreaded punishment. Such a worshipper would gladly escape
from his divinity, and his worship, when analyzed, will be found to be little else than disguised
hatred. This is the natural result of a worship based upon UNEXPLAINED traditions instead of
intelligible principles, and is the very opposite of that worship in Spirit and in truth which
Jesus speaks of as the true worship.

But when the light begins to break in upon us, all this becomes changed. We see that a system
of terrorism cannot give expression to the Divine Spirit, and we realize the truth of St. Paul's
words, "He hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound
mind." As the true nature of the relation between the individual mind and the Universal Mind
becomes clearer, we find it to be one of mutual action and re-action, a perfect reciprocity
which cannot be better symbolized than by the relation between an affectionate husband and
wife. Everything is done from love and nothing from compulsion, there is perfect confidence
on both sides, and both are equally indispensable to each other. It is simply the carrying
out of the fundamental maxim that the Universal cannot act on the plane of the Particular except
through the Particular; only this philosophical axiom develops into a warm living intercourse.

Now this is the position of the soul which is indicated by the name Hephzibah. In common with
all other words derived from the Semitic root "hafz" it implies the idea of guarding, just
as in the East a hasfiz is one who guards the letter of the Koran by having the whole book
by heart, and in many similar expressions. Hephzibah may therefore be translated as "a guarded
one," thus recalling the New Testament description of those who are "guarded into salvation."
It is precisely this conception of being guarded by a superior power that distinguishes the
worship of Ishi from that of Baali. A special relation has been established between the Divine
Spirit and the individual soul, one of absolute confidence and personal intercourse. This does
not require any departure from the general law of the universe, but is due to that specializing
of the law through the presentation of special conditions personal to the individual, of which
I have spoken before. But all the time there has been no change in the Universal Spirit, the
only change has been in the mental attitude of the individual--he has come into a new thought,
a clearer perception of God. He has faced the questions, What is God? Where is God? How does
God work? and he has found the answer in the apostolic statement that God is "over all, through
all, and in all," and he realises that "God" is the root of his (the individual's) own being,
ever present IN him, ever working THROUGH him, and universally present around him.

This realization of the true relation between the Originating Spirit and the individual mind
is what is esoterically spoken of as the Mystical Marriage in which the two have ceased to
be separate and have become one. As a matter of fact they always were one, but since we can
apprehend things only from the stand-point of our own consciousness, it is our recognition
of the fact that makes it a practical reality for ourselves. But an intelligent recognition
will never make a confusion of the two parts of which the whole consists, and will never lead
the individual to suppose that he is handling a blind force or that a blind force is handling
him. He will neither dethrone God, nor lose himself by absorption in deity, but he will recognize
the reciprocity of the Divine and the human as the natural and logical outcome of the essential
conditions of the creative process.

And what is the Whole which is thus created? 7): "muta consulerent propositum, et huc sense,
neque use find more itineris, aut hiemis asperitas." The imitation is, besides, so altogether
close that we terreat in both cases "neque" is preferred in the first clause to the longitudo
peculiar
form of "nec." Viii. (an. Xiii.

39).// (Ep. I. 1). There is the
very gloriaeque te of "pariter" in the veni of equality of association or time--
"usual pariter Bracciolini praedae igitur," just as in et's Treatise
"De Miseria Humanae Conditionis" (Pog. It is for this
reason that relatively to ourselves the Universal Spirit must necessarily assume a personal
aspect, and that the aspect which it will assume will be in exact correspondence with our own
conception of it. This is in accordance with mental and spiritual laws inherent in our own
being, and it is on this account that the Bible seeks to build up our conception of God on
such lines as will set us free from all fear of evil, and thus leave us at liberty to use the
creative power of our thought affirmatively from the stand-point of a calm and untroubled mind.
This stand-point can only be reached by passing beyond the range of the happenings of the moment,
and this can only be done by the discovery of our immediate relation to the undifferentiated
source of all good. I lay stress on these words "immediate" and "undifferentiated" because
in them is contained the secret of the whole position. If we could not draw immediately from
the Universal Spirit our receiving would be subject to the limitations of the channel through
which it reached us; and if the force which we receive were not undifferentiated in itself
it could not take appropriate form in our own minds and become to each of us just what we require
it to be. It is this power of the human soul to differentiate limitlessly from the Infinite
that we are apt to overlook, but as we come to realize that the soul is itself a reflection
and image of the Infinite Spirit--and a clear recognition of the cosmic creative process shows
that it cannot be anything else--we find that it must possess this power, and that-in fact
it is our possession of this power which is the whole raison d'etre of the creative process:
if the human soul did not possess an unlimited power of differentiation from the Infinite,
then the Infinite would not be reflected in it, and consequently the Infinite Spirit would
find no outlet for its CONSCIOUS recognition of itself as the Life, Love, and Beauty which
it is. We can never too deeply ponder the old esoteric definition of Spirit as "the Power which
knows itself": the secret of all things, past, present, and future is contained in these few
words. The self -recognition or self-contemplation of Spirit is the primary movement out of
which all creation proceeds, and the attainment in the individual of a fresh centre for self-recognition
is what the Spirit GAINS in the process--this GAIN accruing to the Spirit is what is referred
to in the parables where the lord is represented as receiving increase from his servants.

When the individual perceives this relation between himself and Infinite Spirit, he finds that
he has been raised from a position of slavery to one of reciprocity. The Spirit cannot do without
him any more than he can do without the Spirit: the two are as necessary to each other as the
two poles of an electric battery. The Spirit is the unlimited essence of Love, Wisdom, and
Power, all three in one undifferentiated and waiting to be differentiated by APPROPRIATION,
that is, by the individual CLAIMING to be the channel of their differentiation. It only requires
the claim to be made with the recognition that by the Law of Being it is bound to be answered,
and the right feeling, the right seeing, and the right working for the particular matter we
have in hand will flow in quite naturally. Our old enemies, doubt and fear, may seek to bring
us back under bondage to Baali, but our new stand-point for the recognition of the All-originating
Spirit as being absolutely unified with ourselves must always be kept resolutely in mind; for,
short of this, we are not working on the creative level--we are creating, indeed, for we can
never divest ourselves of our creative power, but we are creating in the image of the old limiting
and destructive conditions, and this is merely perpetuating the cosmic Law of Averages, which
is just what the individual has to rise superior to. The creative level is where new laws begin
to manifest themselves in a new order of conditions, something transcending our past experiences
and thus bringing about a real advance; for it is no advance only to go on in the same old
round even if we kept at it for centuries: it is the steady go-ahead nature of the Spirit that
has made the world of to-day an improvement upon the world of the pterodactyl and the icthiosaurus,
and we must look for the same forward movement of the Spirit from its new starting-point in
ourselves.

Now it is this special, personal, and individual relation of the Spirit to ourselves which
is typified by the names Ishi and Hephzibah. From this stand-point we may say that as the individual
wakes up to the oneness with the Spirit, the Spirit wakes up to the same thing. It becomes
conscious of itself through the consciousness of the individual, and thus is solved the paradox
of individual self-recognition by the Universal Spirit, without which no new-creative power
could be exercised and all things would continue to proceed in the old merely cosmic order.
It is of course true that in the merely generic order the Spirit must be present in every form
of Life, as the Master pointed out when He said that not a sparrow falls to the ground without
"the Father." But as the sparrows He alluded to had been shot and were on sale at a price which
shows that this was the fate of a good many of them, we see here precisely that stage of manifestation
where the Spirit has not woke up to individual self-recognition, and remains at the lower level
of self-recognition, that of the generic or race-spirit. The Master's comment, "Ye are of more
value than many sparrows" points out this difference: in us the generic creation has reached
the level which affords the conditions for the waking up of the Spirit to self-recognition
in the Individual.

And we must bear in mind that all this is perfectly natural. There is no posing or straining
after effect about it. If YOU have to pump up the Life, who is going to put the Life into you
to pump it? Therefore it is spontaneous or nothing. That is why the Bible speaks of it as the
free gift of God. It cannot be anything else. You cannot originate the originating force; it
must originate you: but what you can do is to distribute it. Therefore immediately you experience
any sense of friction be sure there is something wrong somewhere; and since God can never change,
you may be sure that the friction is being caused by some error in your own thinking--you are
limiting the Spirit in some way: set to work to find out what it is. It is always LIMITING
the Spirit that does this. You are tying it down to conditions somewhere, saying it is bound
by reason of some existing forms. The remedy is to go back to the original starting point of
the Cosmic Creation and ask, Where were the pre-existing forms that dictated to the Spirit
then? Then because the Spirit never changes it is STILL THE SAME, and is just as independent
of existing conditions now as it was in the beginning; and so we must pass over all existing
conditions, however apparently adverse, and go straight to the Spirit as the originator of
new forms and new conditions. This is real New Thought, for it does not trouble about the old
things, but is going straight ahead from where we are now. When we do this, just trusting the
Spirit, and not laying down the particular details of its action--just telling it what we want
without dictating HOW we are to get it-- we shall find that things will open out more and more
clearly day by day both on the inner and the outer plane. Remember that the Spirit is alive
and working here and now, for if ever the Spirit is to get from the past into the future it
must be by passing through the present; therefore what you have to do is to acquire the habit
of living direct -from the Spirit here and now. You will soon find that this is a matter of
personal intercourse, perfectly natural and not requiring any abnormal conditions for its production.
You just treat the Spirit as you would any other kind-hearted sensible person, remembering
that it is always there--"closer than hands and feet," as Tennyson says--and you will gradually
begin to appreciate its reciprocity as a very practical fact indeed.

This is the relation of Hephzibah to Ishi, and is that worship in Spirit and in truth which
needs neither the temple in Jerusalem nor yet in Samaria for its acceptance, for the whole
world is the temple of the Spirit and you yourself its sanctuary. Bear this in mind, and remember
that nothing is too great or too small, too interior or too external, for the Spirit's recognition
and operation, for the Spirit is itself both the Life and the Substance of all things and it
is also Self-recognition from the stand-point of your own individuality; and therefore, because
the Self-recognition of Spirit is the Life of the creative process, you will, by simply trusting
the Spirit to work according to its own nature, pass more and more completely into that New
Order which proceeds from the thought of Him who says, "Behold I make all things new."

THE SHEPHERD AND THE STONE.

The metaphor of the Shepherd and the Sheep is of constant occurrence throughout the Bible and
naturally suggests the idea of the guiding, guarding, and feeding both of the individual sheep
and of the whole flock and it is not difficult to see the spiritual correspondence of these
things in a general sort of way. But we find that the Bible combines the metaphor of the Shepherd
with another metaphor that of "the Stone," and at first sight the two seem rather incongruous.

