"No, nor any hopes that I am conscious of. Can I not admire your paragon to your heart's content
without insisting that she bestow upon me the treasures of her life? Miss St. John has a frank,
cordial manner all her own, and I think also that for your sake she has received me rather
graciously, but I should be blind indeed did I not recognize that it would require a siege
to win her; and that would be useless, as you said, unless her own heart prompted the surrender.
I have heard and read that many women are capable of passing fancies of which adroit suitors
can take advantage, and they are engaged or married before fully comprehending what it all
means. Were Miss St. John of this class I should still hesitate to venture, for nothing in
my training has fitted me to take an advantage of a lady's mood. I don't think your favorite
is given to fancies. She is too well poised. Her serene, laughing confidence, her more than
content, comes either from a heart already happily given, or else from a nature so sound and
healthful that life in itself is an unalloyed joy. She impresses me as the happiest being I
ever met, and as such it is a delight to be in her presence; but if I should approach her as
a lover, something tells me that I should find her like a snowy peak, warm and rose-tinted
in the sunlight, as seen in the distance, but growing cold as you draw near. There may be subterranean
fires, but they would manifest themselves from some inward impulse. At least I do not feel
conscious of any power to awaken them."

Mrs. Mayburn shook her head ominously.

"You are growing very fanciful," she said, "which is a sign, if not a bad one. Your metaphors,
too, are so farfetched and extravagant as to indicate the earliest stages of the divine madness.
Do you mean to suggest that Grace will break forth like a volcano on some fortuitous man? If
that be your theory you would stand as good a chance as any one. She might break forth on you."

"I have indeed been unfortunate in my illustration, since you can so twist my words even in
jest. Here's plain enough prose for you. "This is the good duke, who built the monastery," said Hansen,
"but the people enjoy his gifts and not think of him as he still wished during his lifetime he
has. "

"But you are mindful of him, Hansen."

She looked at me with her soft eyes. "Yes, my child," she said, "that is so in my Nature, I
can hardly forget. "

The walls to the street to the churchyard and had a series of small
windows in Leaded windows, and in almost all had a name, usually regarded
me from known Bourgeois families, branded with black paint, including:
"feast dahi Anno -" and then followed the relevant year.

"You see, this is your great-grandfather," said Hansen, adding she
had one of these discs; "I can not forget, my father has taught him
in the act and later often Council and action taken with him, unfortunately,
in the worst time he had devoted his eyes.

"

I read another name: "Liborius Michael Hansen, chief steward Anno
1799th"

"That was my father!" said Hansen.

? How did your father because really -? "

"The fact that I have served half of my life, do you think, while
I yet to Honoratiorentoechtern belonged? "

"I mean, what was it really
so that the accident came about your family?"

Hansen was sitting
on one of the old Lederstuehle. "It was nothing special, my Child,
"she said," it was in the year seven, the time of the continental
system, then flourished Rogues, and honest people perished. And my
father was an honest man - he took the name from his grave, "she continued
after a short silence. He was the last man in the world to be carried away by a Romeo- like
gust of passion, and no amount of beauty could hold his attention an hour, did not the mind
ray through it with a sparkle and power essentially its own.

Miss St. John had soon convinced him that she could do more than look sweetly and chatter.
She could not only talk to a university-bred man, but also tell him much that was new. He found
his peer, not in his lines of thought, but in her own, and he was so little of an egotist that
he admired her all the more because she knew what he did not, and could never become an echo
of himself. In her world she had been an intelligent observer and thinker, and she interpreted
that world to him as naturally and unassumingly as a flower blooms and exhales its fragrance.
For the first time in his life he gave himself up to the charm of a cultivated woman's society,
and to do this in his present leisure seemed the most sensible thing possible.

"One can see a rare flower," he had reasoned, "without wishing to pluck it, or hear a wood-thrush
sing without straightway thinking of a cage. Miss St. John's affections may be already engaged,
or I may be the last person in the world to secure them. Idle fancies of what she might become
to me are harmless enough. Any man is prone to indulge in these when seeing a woman who pleases
his taste and kindles his imagination. When it comes to practical action one may expect and
desire nothing more than the brightening of one's wits and the securing of agreeable pastime.
I do not see why I should not be entirely content with these motives, until my brief visit
is over, notwithstanding my aunt's ominous warnings;" and so without any misgivings he had
at first yielded himself to all the spells that Miss St. John might unconsciously weave.

As time passed, however, he began to doubt whether he could maintain his cool, philosophic
attitude of enjoyment. He found himself growing more and more eager for the hours to return
when he could seek her society, and the intervening time was becoming dull and heavy-paced.
The impulse to go back to Germany and to resume his studies was slow in coming. Indeed, he
was at last obliged to admit to himself that a game of whist with the old major had more attractions
than the latest scientific treatise. Then we went into the garden; I
with the Swallow, which was still in my hand, look at me with big brown eyes. "Now they throw in
the air!" said Hansen. And amazed I saw thrown from my hand, the seemingly lifeless bird thought
quickly spread his wings and bright Zwitscherlaut like a feathered arrow then shot into the sunny sky
space. "From the tower," said Hansen, "You should see it fly, that is from the tower of the old
church, a tower was mentioned. "

She was a good walker and horsewoman, and as their acquaintance ripened he began to ask permission
to join her in her rides and rambles. She assented without the slightest hesitancy, but he
soon found that she gave him no exclusive monopoly of these excursions, and that he must share
them with other young men. Her absences from home were always comparatively brief, however,
and that which charmed him most was her sunny devotion to her invalid and often very irritable
father. She was the antidote to his age and to his infirmities of body and temper. While she
was away the world in general, and his own little sphere in particular, tended toward a hopeless
snarl. Jinny, the colored servant, was subserviency itself, but her very obsequiousness irritated
him, although her drollery was at times diverting. It was usually true, however, that but one
touch and one voice could soothe the jangling nerves. As Graham saw this womanly magic, which
apparently cost no more effort than the wood fire put forth in banishing chilliness and discomfort,
the thought would come, "Blessed will be the man who can win her as the light and life of his
home!"

When days passed, and no one seemed to have a greater place in her thoughts and interest than
himself, was it unnatural that the hope should dawn that she might create a home for him? If
she had a favored suitor his aunt would be apt to know of it. She did not seem ambitious, or
disposed to invest her heart so that it might bring fortune and social eminence. Never by word
or sign had she appeared to chafe at her father's modest competency, but with tact and skill,
taught undoubtedly by army experience, she made their slender income yield the essentials of
comfort and refinement, and seemed quite indifferent to non-essentials. Graham could never
hope to possess wealth, but he found in Miss St. John a woman who could impart to his home
the crowning grace of wealth--simple, unostentatious elegance. His aunt had said that the young
girl had already refused more than one fortune, and the accompanying assurance that she would
marry the man she loved, whatever might be his circumstances, seemed verified by his own observation. At high Summer
air floating away while storks over the city, their nests on the roofs below have, and when in April
the first fan blowing from the south, they certainly bring the Swallows, and a neighbor's
says the other, that they have come .-- the way it is now. Under my window in the garden bloom the
first violets, and sitting over there on the plank even the swallow chirps and their old song:

When
I took my leave, when I took leave, and the longer she sings, the
more I think of a long since deceased, who I have to thank for many
a good hour of my youth.

My thoughts go the long road up to the extreme end, where the St.-Jürgen-pin is, after all, our city
has such a, as in most cities in the north of some Importance. The present house was built in
the sixteenth century by one of our dukes and gradually progressed through the Wohltaetigkeitssinn
of citizens to a certain amount of wealth so it now for old people to the plight of life before
the eternal rest of the Seek peace, even a comfortable residence is .-- With one hand, it stretches
at the St. Juergens Cemetery along with his mighty Linden already the first Reformers preached,
and the other is after the inner courtyard and an adjacent narrow small garden area, from
which in my youth the Pfruendnerinnen her bouquets sonntaeglichen picked to worship.
 I might easily have gone through life and never given to these subjects an hour's thought.
Even now I could quietly decide to go away and take up my old life as I left it. But why should
I? Here is an opportunity to enrich existence immeasurably, and to add to all my chances of
success and power. So far from being a drag upon one, a woman like Miss St. John would incite
and inspire a man to his best efforts. She would sympathize with him because she could understand
his aims and keep pace with his mental advance. Granted that my prospects of winning her are
doubtful indeed, still as far as I can see there is a chance. I would not care a straw for
a woman that I could have for the asking--who would take me as a dernier ressort. Any woman
that I would marry, many others would gladly marry also, and I must take my chance of winning
her from them. Such would be my lot under any circumstances, and if I give way to a faint heart
now I may as well give up altogether and content myself with a library as a bride."

Since he felt that he might have taken Hilland into his confidence, he had, in terms substantially
the same as those given, imagined his explanation, and he smiled as he portrayed to himself
his friend's jocular response, which would have nevertheless its substratum of true sympathy.
"Hilland would say," he thought, "'That is just like you, Graham. You can't smoke a cigar or
make love to a girl without analyzing and philosophizing and arranging all the wisdom of Solomon
in favor of your course. Now I would make love to a girl because I loved her, and that would
be the end on't.'"

Graham was mistaken in this case. Not in laughing sympathy, but in pale dismay, would Hilland
have received this revelation, for he was making love to Grace St. John because he loved her
with all his heart and soul. There had been a time when Graham might have obtained a hint of
this had circumstances been different, and it had occurred quite early in his acquaintance
with Miss St. John. After a day that had been unusually delightful and satisfactory he was
accompanying the young girl home from his aunt's cottage in the twilight. Out of the complacency
of his heart he remarked, half to himself, "If Hilland were only here, my vacation would be
complete."

In the obscurity he could not see her sudden burning flush, and since her hand was not on his
arm he had no knowledge of her startled tremor. All that he knew was that she was silent for
a moment or two, and then she asked quietly, "Is Mr. Warren Hilland an acquaintance of yours?"

"Indeed he is not," was the emphatic and hearty response. "He is the best friend I have in
the world, and the best fellow in the world."

Oh, fatal obscurity of the deepening twilight! Miss St. John's face was crimson and radiant
with pleasure, and could Graham have seen her at that moment he could not have failed to surmise
the truth.

The young girl was as jealous of her secret as Graham soon became of his, and she only remarked
demurely, "I have met Mr. Hilland in society," and then she changed the subject, for they were
approaching the piazza steps, and she felt that if Hilland should continue the theme of conversation
under the light of the chandelier, a telltale face and manner would betray her, in spite of
all effort at control. A fragrant blossom from the shrubbery bordering the walk brushed against
Graham's face, and he plucked it, saying, "Beyond that it is fragrant I don't know what this
flower is. Will you take it from me?" And then I sat quietly and watched as
the lean birds in the sunshine now and then flew the nest built or feeding their young, while Hansen
to me about the glory of ancient times told, from the festivals the house of my great-grandfather,
from the elevators of the old archers or - and this was her favorite subject - from the pictures
and splendor of the old church altar, in which they themselves have had confessed to the granddaughter
of the last remaining in gossip, until at last from the chapel ago, the first sound of the
organ herueberbrauste to us. Then she got up, and we went together by a narrow endless corridor,
which is only through the curtained Tuerfensterchen the received on both sides for cells that
are a meager half-light. It is a woman's delight to hear her lover praised by other
men, and Graham's words had been so hearty that they had set her pulses bounding, for they
assured her that she had not been deceived by love's partial eyes.

"It's true, it's true," she murmured, softly, standing with dewy eyes before her mirror. "He
is the best fellow in the world, and I was blind that I did not see it from the first. But
all will yet be well;" and she drew a letter from her bosom and kissed it.

