CHAPTER XVIII

For the last two or three years the King of Spain had been in very weak health, and in danger
of his life several times.  He had no children, and no hope of having any.  The question, therefore,
of the succession to his vast empire began now to agitate every European Court.  The King of
England (William III.), who since his usurpation had much augmented his credit by the grand
alliance he had formed against France, and of which he had been the soul and the chief up to
the Peace of Ryswick, undertook to arrange this question in a manner that should prevent war
when the King of Spain died.  His plan was to give Spain, the Indies, the Low Countries, and
the title of King of Spain to the Archduke, second son of the Emperor; Guipuscoa, Naples, Sicily,
and Lorraine to France; and the Milanese to M. de Lorraine, as compensation for taking away
from him his territory.

The King of England made this proposition first of all to our King; who, tired of war, and
anxious for repose, as was natural at his age, made few difficulties, and soon accepted.  M.
de Lorraine was not in a position to refuse his consent to a change recommended by England,
France, and Holland.  Thus much being settled, the Emperor was next applied to.  But he was
not so easy to persuade: he wished to inherit the entire succession, and would not brook the
idea of seeing the House of Austria driven from Italy, as it would have been if the King of
England's proposal had been carried out.  He therefore declared it was altogether unheard of
and unnatural to divide a succession under such circumstances, and that he would hear nothing
upon the subject until after the death of the King of Spain.  The resistance he made caused
the whole scheme to come to the ears of the King of Spain, instead of remaining a secret, as
was intended.

The King of Spain made a great stir in consequence of what had taken place, as though the project
had been formed to strip him, during his lifetime, of his realm.  His ambassador in England
spoke so insolently that he was ordered to leave the country by William, and retired to Flanders.
The Emperor, who did not wish to quarrel with England, intervened at this point, and brought
about a reconciliation between the two powers.  The Spanish ambassador returned to London.

The Emperor next endeavoured to strengthen his party in Spain.  The reigning Queen was his
sister-in-law and was all-powerful.  Such of the nobility and of the ministers who would not
bend before her she caused to be dismissed; and none were favoured by her who were not partisans
of the House of Austria.  The Emperor had, therefore, a powerful ally at the Court of Madrid
to aid him in carrying out his plans; and the King was so much in his favour, that he had made
a will bequeathing his succession to the Archduke.  Everything therefore seemed to promise
success to the Emperor.

But just at this time, a small party arose in Spain, equally opposed to the Emperor, and to
the propositions of the King of England.  This party consisted at first of only five persons:
namely, Villafranca, Medina- Sidonia, Villagarcias, Villena, and San Estevan, all of them nobles,
and well instructed in the affairs of government.  Their wish was to prevent the dismemberment
of the Spanish kingdom by conferring the whole succession upon the son of the only son of the
Queen of France, Maria Theresa, sister of the King of Spain.  There were, however, two great
obstacles in their path.  Maria Theresa, upon her marriage with our King, had solemnly renounced
all claim to the Spanish throne, and these renunciations had been repeated at the Peace of
the Pyrenees.  The other obstacle was the affection the King of Spain bore to the House of
Austria,--an affection which naturally would render him opposed to any project by which a rival
house would be aggrandised at its expense.

As to the first obstacle, these politicians were of opinion that the renunciations made by
Maria Theresa held good only as far as they applied to the object for which they were made.
That object was to prevent the crowns of France and Spain from being united upon one head,
as might have happened in the person of the Dauphin.  But now that the Dauphin had three sons,
the second of whom could be called to the throne of Spain, the renunciations of the Queen became
of no import.  As to the second obstacle, it was only to be removed by great perseverance and
exertions; but they determined to leave no stone unturned to achieve their ends.

One of the first resolutions of this little party was to bind one another to secrecy.  Their
next was to admit into their confidence Cardinal Portocarrero, a determined enemy to the Queen.
Then they commenced an attack upon the Queen in the council; and being supported by the popular
voice, succeeded in driving out of the country Madame Berlips, a German favourite of hers,
who was much hated on account of the undue influence she exerted, and the rapacity she displayed.
The next measure was of equal importance.  Madrid and its environs groaned under the weight
of a regiment of Germans commanded by the Prince of Darmstadt.  The council decreed that this
regiment should be disbanded, and the Prince thanked for his assistance.  These two blows following
upon each other so closely, frightened the Queen, isolated her, and put it out of her power
to act during the rest of the life of the King.

There was yet one of the preliminary steps to take, without which it was thought that success
would not be certain.  This was to dismiss the King's Confessor, who had been given to him
by the Queen, and who was a zealous Austrian.

Cardinal Portocarrero was charged with this duty, and he succeeded so well, that two birds
were killed with one stone.  The Confessor was dismissed, and another was put in his place,
who could be relied upon to do and say exactly as he was requested.  Thus, the King of Spain
was influenced in his conscience, which had over him so much the more power, because he was
beginning to look upon the things of this world by the glare of that terrible flambeau that
is lighted for the dying.  The Confessor and the Cardinal, after a short time, began unceasingly
to attack the King upon the subject of the succession.  The King, enfeebled by illness, and
by a lifetime of weak health, had little power of resistance.  Pressed by the many temporal,
and affrighted by the many spiritual reasons which were brought forward by the two ecclesiastics,
with no friend near whose opinion he could consult, no Austrian at hand to confer with, and
no Spaniard who was not opposed to Austria;--the King fell into a profound perplexity, and
in this strait, proposed to consult the Pope, as an authority whose decision would be infallible.
The Cardinal, who felt persuaded that the Pope was sufficiently enlightened and sufficiently
impartial to declare in favour of France, assented to this step; and the King of Spain accordingly
wrote a long letter to Rome, feeling much relieved by the course he had adopted.

The Pope replied at once and in the most decided manner.  He said he saw clearly that the children
of the Dauphin were the next heirs to the Spanish throne, and that the House of Austria had
not the smallest right to it.  He recommended therefore the King of Spain to render justice
to whom justice was due, and to assign the succession of his monarchy to a son of France. 
This reply, and the letter which had given rise to it, were kept so profoundly secret that
they were not known in Spain until after the King's death.

Directly the Pope's answer had been received the King was pressed to make a fresh will, and
to destroy that which he had previously made in favour of the Archduke.  The new will accordingly
was at once drawn up and signed; and the old one burned in the presence, of several witnesses.
Matters having arrived at this point, it was thought opportune to admit others to the knowledge
of what had taken place.  The council of state, consisting of eight members, four of whom were
already in the secret, was made acquainted with the movements of the new party; and, after
a little hesitation, were gained over.

The King, meantime, was drawing near to his end.  A few days after he had signed the new will
he was at the last extremity, and in a few days more he died.  In his last moments the Queen
had been kept from him as much as possible, and was unable in any way to interfere with the
plans that had been so deeply laid.  As soon as the King was dead the first thing to be done
was to open his will.  The council of state assembled for that purpose, and all the grandees
of Spain who were in the capital took part in it, The singularity and the importance of such
an event, interesting many millions of men, drew all Madrid to the palace, and the rooms adjoining
that in which the council assembled were filled to suffocation. All the foreign ministers besieged
the door.  Every one sought to be the first to know the choice of the King who had just died,
in order to be the first to inform his court.  Blecourt, our ambassador, was there with the
others, without knowing more than they; and Count d'Harrach, ambassador from the Emperor, who
counted upon the will in favour of the Archduke, was there also, with a triumphant look, just
opposite the door, and close by it.

At last the door opened, and immediately closed again.  The Duc d'Abrantes, a man of much wit
and humour, but not to be trifled with, came out.  He wished to have the pleasure of announcing
upon whom the successorship had fallen, and was surrounded as soon as he appeared. Keeping
silence, and turning his eyes on all sides, he fixed them for a moment on Blecourt, then looked
in another direction, as if seeking some one else.  Blecourt interpreted this action as a bad
omen.  The Duc d'Abrantes feigning at last to discover the Count d'Harrach, assumed a gratified
look, flew to him, embraced him, and said aloud in Spanish, "Sir, it is with much pleasure;"
then pausing, as though to embrace him better, he added: "Yes, sir, it is with an extreme joy
that for all my life," here the embraces were redoubled as an excuse for a second pause, after
which he went on--"and with the greatest contentment that I part from you, and take leave of
the very august House of Austria."  So saying he clove the crowd, and every one ran after him
to know the name of the real heir.

The astonishment and indignation of Count d'Harrach disabled him from speaking, but showed
themselves upon his face in all their extent.  He remained motionless some moments, and then
went away in the greatest confusion at the manner in which he had been duped.

Blecourt, on the other hand, ran home without asking other information, and at once despatched
to the King a courier, who fell ill at Bayonne, and was replaced by one named by Harcourt,
then at Bayonne getting ready for the occupation of Guipuscoa.  The news arrived at Court (Fontainebleau)
in the month of November.  The King was going out shooting that day; but, upon learning what
had taken place, at once countermanded the sport, announced the death of the King of Spain,
and at three o'clock held a council of the ministers in the apartments of Madame de Maintenon.
This council lasted until past seven o'clock in the evening.  Monseigneur, who had been out
wolf-hunting, returned in time to attend it.  On the next morning, Wednesday, another council
was held, and in the evening a third, in the apartments of Madame de Maintenon. However accustomed
persons were at the Court to the favour Madame de Maintenon enjoyed there, they were extremely
surprised to see two councils assembled in her rooms for the greatest and most important deliberation
that had taken place during this long reign, or indeed during many others.

The King, Monseigneur, the Chancellor, the Duc de Brinvilliers, Torcy, and Madame de Maintenon,
were the only persons who deliberated upon this affair.  Madame de Maintenon preserved at first
a modest silence; but the King forced her to give her opinion after everybody had spoken except
herself.  The council was divided.  Two were for keeping to the treaty that had been signed
with King William, two for accepting the will. Monseigneur, drowned as he was in fat and sloth,
appeared in quite another character from his usual ones at these councils.  To the great surprise
of the King and his assistants, when it was his turn to speak he expressed himself with force
in favour of accepting the testament.  Then, turning towards the King in a respectful but firm
manner, he said that he took the liberty of asking for his inheritance, that the monarchy of
Spain belonged to the Queen his mother, and consequently to him; that he surrendered it willingly
to his second son for the tranquillity of Europe; but that to none other would he yield an
inch of ground.  These words, spoken with an inflamed countenance, caused excessive surprise,
The King listened very attentively, and then said to Madame de Maintenon, "And you, Madame,
what do you think upon all this?"  She began by affecting modesty; but pressed, and even commanded
to speak, she expressed herself with becoming confusion; briefly sang the praises of Monseigneur,
whom she feared and liked but little--sentiments perfectly reciprocated--and at last was for
accepting the will.

The King did not yet declare himself.  He said that the affair might well be allowed to sleep
for four-and-twenty hours, in order that they might ascertain if the Spaniards approved the
choice of their King.  He dismissed the council, but ordered it to meet again the next evening
at the same hour and place.  Next day, several couriers arrived from Spain, and the news they
brought left no doubt upon the King's mind as to the wishes of the Spanish nobles and people
upon the subject of the will. When therefore the council reassembled in the apartments of Madame
de Maintenon, the King, after fully discussing the matter, resolved to accept the will.

At the first receipt of the news the King and his ministers had been overwhelmed with a surprise
that they could not recover from for several days.  When the news was spread abroad, the Court
was equally surprised. The foreign ministers passed whole nights deliberating upon the course
the King would adopt.  Nothing else was spoken of but this matter.  The King one evening, to
divert himself, asked the princesses their opinion. They replied that he should send M. le
Duc d'Anjou (the second son of Monseigneur), into Spain, and that this was the general sentiment.
"I am sure," replied the King, "that whatever course I adopt many people will condemn me."

At last, on Tuesday, the 16th of November, the King publicly declared himself.  The Spanish
ambassador had received intelligence which proved the eagerness of Spain to welcome the Duc
d'Anjou as its King.  There seemed to be no doubt of the matter.  The King, immediately after
getting up, called the ambassador into his cabinet, where M. le Duc d'Anjou had already arrived.
Then, pointing to the Duke, he told the ambassador he might salute him as King of Spain.  The
ambassador threw himself upon his knees after the fashion of his country, and addressed to
the Duke a tolerably long compliment in the Spanish language.  Immediately afterwards, the
King, contrary to all custom, opened the two folding doors of his cabinet, and commanded everybody
to enter.  It was a very full Court that day.  The King, majestically turning his eyes towards
the numerous company, and showing them M. le Duc d'Anjou said--"Gentlemen, behold the King
of Spain.  His birth called him to that crown: the late King also has called him to it by his
will; the whole nation wished for him, and has asked me for him eagerly; it is the will of
heaven: I have obeyed it with pleasure."  And then, turning towards his grandson, he said,
"Be a good Spaniard, that is your first duty; but remember that you are a Frenchman born, in
order that the union between the two nations may be preserved; it will be the means of rendering
both happy, and of preserving the peace of Europe."  Pointing afterwards with his finger to
the Duc d'Anjou, to indicate him to the ambassador, the King added, "If he follows my counsels
you will be a grandee, and soon; he cannot do better than follow your advice."

When the hubbub of the courtiers had subsided, the two other sons of France, brothers of M.
d'Anjou, arrived, and all three embraced one another tenderly several times, with tears in
their eyes.  The ambassador of the Emperor immediately entered, little suspecting what had
taken place, and was confounded when he learned the news.  The King afterwards went to mass,
during which at his right hand was the new King of Spain, who during the rest of his stay in
France, was publicly treated in every respect as a sovereign, by the King and all the Court.

The joy of Monseigneur at all this was very great.  He seemed beside himself, and continually
repeated that no man had ever found himself in a condition to say as he could, "The King my
father, and the King my son." If he had known the prophecy which from his birth had been said
of him, "A King's son, a King's father, and never a King," which everybody had heard repeated
a thousand times, I think he would not have so much rejoiced, however vain may be such prophecies.
The King himself was so overcome, that at supper he turned to the Spanish ambassador and said
that the whole affair seemed to him like a dream.  In public, as I have observed, the new King
of Spain was treated in every respect as a sovereign, but in private he was still the Duc d'Anjou.
He passed his evenings in the apartments of Madame de Maintenon, where he played at all sorts
of children's games, scampering to and fro with Messeigneurs his brothers, with Madame la Duchesse
de Bourgogne, and with the few ladies to whom access was permitted.

On Friday, the 19th of November, the new King of Spain put on mourning. Two days after, the
King did the same.  On Monday, the 22nd, letters were received from the Elector of Bavaria,
stating that the King of Spain had been proclaimed at Brussels with much rejoicing and illuminations.
On Sunday, the 28th, M. Vaudemont, governor of the Milanese, sent word that he had been proclaimed
in that territory, and with the same demonstrations of joy as at Brussels.

On Saturday, the 4th of December, the King of Spain set out for his dominions.  The King rode
with him in his coach as far as Sceaux, surrounded in pomp by many more guards than usual,
gendarmes and light horse, all the road covered with coaches and people; and Sceaux, where
they arrived a little after midday, full of ladies and courtiers, guarded by two companies
of Musketeers.  There was a good deal of leave-taking, and all the family was collected alone
in the last room of the apartment; but as the doors were left open, the tears they shed so
bitterly could be seen.  In presenting the King of Spain to the Princes of the blood, the King
said--"Behold the Princes of my blood and of yours; the two nations from this time ought to
regard themselves as one nation; they ought to have the same interests; therefore I wish these
Princes to be attached to you as to me; you cannot have friends more faithful or more certain."
All this lasted a good hour and a half.  But the time of separation at last came.  The King
conducted the King of Spain to the end of the apartment, and embraced him several times, holding
him a long while in. his arms.  Monseigneur did the same.  The spectacle was extremely touching.

The King returned into the palace for some time, in order to recover himself.  Monseigneur
got into a caleche alone, and went to Meudon; and the King of Spain, with his brother, M. de
Noailles, and a large number of courtiers, set out on his journey.  The King gave to his grandson
twenty-one purses of a thousand louis each, for pocket-money, and much money besides for presents.
Let us leave them on their journey, and admire the Providence which sports with the thoughts
of men and disposes of states.  What would have said Ferdinand and Isabella, Charles V.  and
Philip II., who so many times attempted to conquer France, and who have been so frequently
accused of aspiring to universal monarchy, and Philip IV., even, with all his precautions at
the marriage of the King and at the Peace of the Pyrenees,--what would they have said, to see
a son of France become King of Spain, by the will and testament of the last of their blood
in Spain, and by the universal wish of all the Spaniards-- without plot, without intrigue,
without a shot being fired on our part, and without the sanction of our King, nay even to his
extreme surprise and that of all his ministers, who had only the trouble of making up their
minds and of accepting?  What great and wise reflections might be made thereon!  But they would
be out of place in these Memoirs.

The King of Spain arrived in Madrid on the 19th February.  From his first entrance into the
country he had everywhere been most warmly welcomed. Acclamations were uttered when he appeared;
fetes and bull-fights were given in his honour; the nobles and ladies pressed around him. 
He had been proclaimed in Madrid some time before, in the midst of demonstrations of joy. 
Now that he had arrived among his subjects there, that joy burst out anew.  There was such
a crowd in the streets that sixty people were stifled!  All along the line of route were an
infinity of coaches filled with ladies richly decked.  The streets through which he passed
were hung in the Spanish fashion; stands were placed, adorned with fine pictures and a vast
number of silver vessels; triumphal arches were built from side to side.  It is impossible
to conceive a greater or more general demonstration of joy.  The Buen-Retiro, where the new
King took up his quarters, was filled with the Court and the nobility.  The junta and a number
of great men received him at the door, and the Cardinal Portocarrero, who was there, threw
himself on his knees, and wished to kiss the King's hand.  But the King would not permit this;
raised the Cardinal, embraced him, and treated him as his father.  The Cardinal wept with joy,
and could not take his eyes off the King.  He was just then in the flower of his first youth--fair
like the late King Charles, and the Queen his grandmother; grave, silent, measured, self- contained,
formed exactly to live among Spaniards.  With all this, very attentive in his demeanour, and
paying everybody the attention due to him, having taken lessons from d'Harcourt on the way.
Indeed he took off his hat or raised it to nearly everybody, so that the Spaniards spoke on
the subject to the Duc d'Harcourt, who replied to them that the King in all essential things
would conform himself to usage, but that in others he must be allowed to act according to French
politeness.  It cannot be imagined how much these trifling external attentions attached all
hearts to this Prince.

He was, indeed, completely triumphant in Spain, and the Austrian party as completely routed.
The Queen of Spain was sent away from Madrid, and banished to Toledo, where she remained with
but a small suite, and still less consideration.  Each day the nobles, the citizens, and the
people had given fresh proof of their hatred against the Germans and against the Queen.  She
had been almost entirely abandoned, and was refused the most ordinary necessaries of her state.

CHAPTER XIX

Shortly after his arrival in Madrid, the new King of Spain began to look about him for a wife,
and his marriage with the second daughter of M. de Savoie (younger sister of Madame de Bourgogne)
was decided upon as an alliance of much honour and importance to M. de Savoie, and, by binding
him to her interest, of much utility to France.  An extraordinary ambassador (Homodei, brother
of the Cardinal of that name) was sent to Turin to sign the contract of marriage, and bring
back the new Queen into Spain.  He was also appointed her Ecuyer, and the Princesse des Ursins
was selected as her 'Camarera Mayor', a very important office.  The Princesse des Ursins seemed
just adapted for it.  A Spanish lady could not have been relied upon: a lady of our court would
not have been fit for the post.  The Princesse des Ursins was, as it were, both French and
Spanish--French by birth, Spanish by marriage.  She had passed the greater part of her life
in Rome and Italy, and was a widow without children.  I shall have more hereafter to say of
this celebrated woman, who so long and so publicly governed the Court and Crown of Spain, and
who has made so much stir in the world by her reign and by her fall; at present let me finish
with the new Queen of Spain.

She was married, then, at Turin, on the 11th of September, with but little display, the King
being represented by procuration, and set out on the 13th for Nice, where she was to embark
on board the Spanish galleys for Barcelona.  The King of Spain, meanwhile, after hearing news
that he had been proclaimed with much unanimity and rejoicing in Peru and Mexico, left Madrid
on the 5th of September, to journey through Aragon and Catalonia to Barcelona to meet his wife.
He was much welcomed on his route, above all by Saragossa, which received him magnificently.

The new Queen of Spain, brought by the French galleys to Nice, was so fatigued with the sea
when she arrived there, that she determined to finish the rest of the journey by land, through
Provence and Languedoc. Her graces, her presence of mind, the aptness and the politeness of
her short replies, and her judicious curiosity, remarkable at her age, surprised everybody,
and gave great hopes to the Princesse des Ursins.

When within two days' journey of Barcelona, the Queen was met by a messenger, bearing presents
and compliments from the King.  All her household joined her at the same time, being sent on
in advance for that purpose, and her Piedmontese attendants were dismissed.  She appeared more
affected by this separation than Madame de Bourgogne had been when parting from her attendants.
She wept bitterly, and seemed quite lost in the midst of so many new faces, the most familiar
of which (that of Madame des Ursins) was quite fresh to her.  Upon arriving at Figueras, the
King, impatient to see her, went on before on horseback.  In this first embarrassment Madame
des Ursins, although completely unknown to the King, and but little known to the Queen, was
of great service to both.

