It was in such places, according to the belief of that period (when the laws against witchcraft
were still in fresh observance, and had even lately been acted upon), that evil spirits had
power to make themselves visible to human eyes, and to practise upon the feelings and senses
of mankind. Suspicions, founded on such circumstances, rushed on Butler's mind, unprepared
as it was by any previous course of reasoning, to deny that which all of his time, country,
and profession believed; but common sense rejected these vain ideas as inconsistent, if not
with possibility, at least with the general rules by which the universe is governed,--a deviation
from which, as Butler well argued with himself, ought not to be admitted as probable, upon
any but the plainest and most incontrovertible evidence. An earthly lover, however, or a young
man, who, from whatever cause, had the right of exercising such summary and unceremonious authority
over the object of his long-settled, and apparently sincerely returned affection, was an object
scarce less appalling to his mind, than those which superstition suggested.

His limbs exhausted with fatigue, his mind harassed with anxiety, and with painful doubts and
recollections, Butler dragged himself up the ascent from the valley to St. Leonard's Crags,
and presented himself at the door of Deans's habitation, with feelings much akin to the miserable
reflections and fears of its inhabitants.

CHAPTER ELEVENTH.

                        Then she stretched out her lily hand,
                        And for to do her best;
                       "Hae back thy faith and troth, Willie,
                        God gie thy soul good rest!"
                                                   Old Ballad.

"Come in," answered the low and sweet-toned voice he loved best to hear, as Butler tapped at
the door of the cottage. He lifted the latch, and found himself under the roof of affliction.
Jeanie was unable to trust herself with more than one glance towards her lover, whom she now
met under circumstances so agonising to her feelings, and at the same time so humbling to her
honest pride. It is well known, that much, both of what is good and bad in the Scottish national
character, arises out of the intimacy of their family connections. "To be come of honest folk,"
that is, of people who have borne a fair and unstained reputation, is an advantage as highly
prized among the lower Scotch, as the emphatic counterpart, "to be of a good family," is valued
among their gentry. The worth and respectability of one member of a peasant's family is always
accounted by themselves and others, not only a matter of honest pride, but a guarantee for
the good conduct of the whole. On the contrary, such a melancholy stain as was now flung on
one of the children of Deans, extended its disgrace to all connected with him, and Jeanie felt
herself lowered at once, in her own eyes, and in those of her lover. It was in vain that she
repressed this feeling, as far subordinate and too selfish to be mingled with her sorrow for
her sister's calamity. Nature prevailed; and while she shed tears for her sister's distress
and danger, there mingled with them bitter drops of grief for her own degradation.

As Butler entered, the old man was seated by the fire with his well-worn pocket Bible in his
hands, the companion of the wanderings and dangers of his youth, and bequeathed to him on the
scaffold by one of those, who, in the year 1686, sealed their enthusiastic principles with
their blood. The sun sent its rays through a small window at the old man's back, and, "shining
motty through the reek," to use the expression of a bard of that time and country, illumined
the grey hairs of the old man, and the sacred page which he studied. His features, far from
handsome, and rather harsh and severe, had yet from their expression of habitual gravity, and
contempt for earthly things, an expression of stoical dignity amidst their sternness. He boasted,
in no small degree, the attributes which Southey ascribes to the ancient Scandinavians, whom
he terms "firm to inflict, and stubborn to endure." The whole formed a picture, of which the
lights might have been given by Rembrandt, but the outline would have required the force and
vigour of Michael Angelo.

Deans lifted his eye as Butler entered, and instantly withdrew it, as from an object which
gave him at once surprise and sudden pain. He had assumed such high ground with this carnal-witted
scholar, as he had in his pride termed Butler, that to meet him, of all men, under feelings
of humiliation, aggravated his misfortune, and was a consummation like that of the dying chief
in the old ballad--"Earl Percy sees my fall!"

Deans raised the Bible with his left hand, so as partly to screen his face, and putting back
his right as far as he could, held it towards Butler in that position, at the same time turning
his body from, him, as if to prevent his seeing the working of his countenance. Butler clasped
the extended hand which had supported his orphan infancy, wept over it, and in vain endeavoured
to say more than the words--"God comfort you--God comfort you!"

"He will--he doth, my friend," said Deans, assuming firmness as he discovered the agitation
of his guest; "he doth now, and he will yet more in his own gude time. I have been ower proud
of my sufferings in a gude cause, Reuben, and now I am to be tried with those whilk will turn
my pride and glory into a reproach and a hissing. How muckle better I hae thought mysell than
them that lay saft, fed sweet, and drank deep, when I was in the moss-haggs and moors, wi'
precious Donald Cameron, and worthy Mr. Blackadder, called Guess-again; and how proud I was
o' being made a spectacle to men and angels, having stood on their pillory at the Canongate
afore I was fifteen years old, for the cause of a National Covenant! To think, Reuben, that
I, wha hae been sae honoured and exalted in my youth, nay, when I was but a hafflins callant,
and that hae borne testimony again the defections o' the times yearly, monthly, daily, hourly,
minutely, striving and testifying with uplifted hand and voice, crying aloud, and sparing not,
against all great national snares, as the nation-wasting and church-sinking abomination of
union, toleration, and patronage, imposed by the last woman of that unhappy race of Stuarts;
also against the infringements and invasions of the just powers of eldership, whereanent, I
uttered my paper, called a 'Cry of an Howl in the Desert,' printed at the Bow-head, and sold
by all flying stationers in town and country--and now"

Here he paused. It may well be supposed that Butler, though not absolutely coinciding in all
the good old man's ideas about church government, had too much consideration and humanity to
interrupt him, while he reckoned up with conscious pride his sufferings, and the constancy
of his testimony. On the contrary, when he paused under the influence of the bitter recollections
of the moment, Butler instantly threw in his mite of encouragement.

"You have been well known, my old and revered friend, a true and tried follower of the Cross;
one who, as Saint Jerome hath it, 'per infamiam et bonam famam grassari ad immortalitatem,'
which may be freely rendered, 'who rusheth on to immortal life, through bad report and good
report.' You have been one of those to whom the tender and fearful souls cry during the midnight
solitude--'Watchman, what of the night?--Watchman, what of the night?'--And, assuredly, this
heavy dispensation, as it comes not without divine permission, so it comes not without its
special commission and use."

"I do receive it as such," said poor Deans, returning the grasp of Butler's hand; "and if I
have not been taught to read the Scripture in any other tongue but my native Scottish" (even
in his distress Butler's Latin quotation had not escaped his notice), "I have nevertheless
so learned them, that I trust to bear even this crook in my lot with submission. But, oh! Reuben
Butler, the kirk, of whilk, though unworthy, I have yet been thought a polished shaft, and
meet to be a pillar, holding, from my youth upward, the place of ruling elder--what will the
lightsome and profane think of the guide that cannot keep his own family from stumbling? How
will they take up their song and their reproach, when they see that the children of professors
are liable to as foul backsliding as the offspring of Belial! But I will bear my cross with
the comfort, that whatever showed like goodness in me or mine, was but like the light that
shines frae creeping insects, on the brae-side, in a dark night--it kythes bright to the ee,
because all is dark around it; but when the morn comes on the mountains, it is, but a puir
crawling kail-worm after a'. And sae it shows, wi' ony rag of human righteousness, or formal
law-work, that we may pit round us to cover our shame."

As he pronounced these words, the door again opened, and Mr. Bartoline Saddletree entered,
his three-pointed hat set far back on his head, with a silk handkerchief beneath it to keep
it in that cool position, his gold-headed cane in his hand, and his whole deportment that of
a wealthy burgher, who might one day look to have a share in the magistracy, if not actually
to hold the curule chair itself.

Rochefoucault, who has torn the veil from so many foul gangrenes of the human heart, says,
we find something not altogether unpleasant to us in the misfortunes of our best friends. Mr.
Saddletree would have been very angry had any one told him that he felt pleasure in the disaster
of poor Effie Deans, and the disgrace of her family; and yet there is great question whether
the gratification of playing the person of importance, inquiring, investigating, and laying
down the law on the whole affair, did not offer, to say the least, full consolation for the
pain which pure sympathy gave him on account of his wife's kinswoman. He had now got a piece
of real judicial business by the end, instead of being obliged, as was his common case, to
intrude his opinion where it was neither wished nor wanted; and felt as happy in the exchange
as a boy when he gets his first new watch, which actually goes when wound up, and has real
hands and a true dial-plate. But besides this subject for legal disquisition, Bartoline's brains
were also overloaded with the affair of Porteous, his violent death, and all its probable consequences
to the city and community. It was what the French call l'embarras des richesses, the confusion
arising from too much mental wealth. He walked in with a consciousness of double importance,
full fraught with the superiority of one who possesses more information than the company into
which he enters, and who feels a right to discharge his learning on them without mercy. "Good
morning, Mr. Deans,--good-morrow to you, Mr. Butler,--I was not aware that you were acquainted
with Mr. Deans."

Butler made some slight answer; his reasons may be readily imagined for not making his connection
with the family, which, in his eyes, had something of tender mystery, a frequent subject of
conversation with indifferent persons, such as Saddletree.

The worthy burgher, in the plenitude of self-importance, now sate down upon a chair, wiped
his brow, collected his breath, and made the first experiment of the resolved pith of his lungs,
in a deep and dignified sigh, resembling a groan in sound and intonation--"Awfu' times these,
neighbour Deans, awfu' times!"

"Sinfu', shamefu', heaven-daring times!" answered Deans, in a lower and more subdued tone.

"For my part," continued Saddletree, swelling with importance, "what between the distress of
my friends, and my poor auld country, ony wit that ever I had may be said to have abandoned
me, sae that I sometimes think myself as ignorant as if I were inter rusticos. Here when I
arise in the morning, wi' my mind just arranged touching what's to be done in puir Effie's
misfortune, and hae gotten the haill statute at my finger-ends, the mob maun get up and string
Jock Porteous to a dyester's beam, and ding a' thing out of my head again."

Deeply as he was distressed with his own domestic calamity, Deans could not help expressing
some interest in the news. Saddletree immediately entered on details of the insurrection and
its consequences, while Butler took the occasion to seek some private conversation with Jeanie
Deans. She gave him the opportunity he sought, by leaving the room, as if in prosecution of
some part of her morning labour. Butler followed her in a few minutes, leaving Deans so closely
engaged by his busy visitor, that there was little chance of his observing their absence.

The scene of their interview was an outer apartment, where Jeanie was used to busy herself
in arranging the productions of her dairy. When Butler found an opportunity of stealing after
her into this place, he found her silent, dejected, and ready to burst into tears. Instead
of the active industry with which she had been accustomed, even while in the act of speaking,
to employ her hands in some useful branch of household business, she was seated listless in
a corner, sinking apparently under the weight of her own thoughts. Yet the instant he entered,
she dried her eyes, and, with the simplicity and openness of her character, immediately entered
on conversation.

"I am glad you have come in, Mr. Butler," said she, "for--for--for I wished to tell ye, that
all maun be ended between you and me--it's best for baith our sakes."

"Ended!" said Butler, in surprise; "and for what should it be ended?--I grant this is a heavy
dispensation, but it lies neither at your door nor mine--it's an evil of God's sending, and
it must be borne; but it cannot break plighted troth, Jeanie, while they that plighted their
word wish to keep it."

"But, Reuben," said the young woman, looking at him affectionately, "I ken weel that ye think
mair of me than yourself; and, Reuben, I can only in requital think mair of your weal than
of my ain. Ye are a man of spotless name, bred to God's ministry, and a' men say that ye will
some day rise high in the kirk, though poverty keep ye doun e'en now. Poverty is a bad back-friend,
Reuben, and that ye ken ower weel; but ill-fame is a waur ane, and that is a truth ye sall
never learn through my means."

"What do you mean?" said Butler, eagerly and impatiently; "or how do you connect your sister's
guilt, if guilt there be, which, I trust in God, may yet be disproved, with our engagement?--how
can that affect you or me?"

"How can you ask me that, Mr. Butler? Will this stain, d'ye think, ever be forgotten, as lang
as our heads are abune the grund? Will it not stick to us, and to our bairns, and to their
very bairns' bairns? To hae been the child of an honest man, might hae been saying something
for me and mine; but to be the sister of a--O my God!"--With this exclamation her resolution
failed, and she burst into a passionate fit of tears.

The lover used every effort to induce her to compose herself, and at length succeeded; but
she only resumed her composure to express herself with the same positiveness as before. "No,
Reuben, I'll bring disgrace hame to nae man's hearth; my ain distresses I can bear, and I maun
bear, but there is nae occasion for buckling them on other folk's shouthers. I will bear my
load alone--the back is made for the burden."

A lover is by charter wayward and suspicious; and Jeanie's readiness to renounce their engagement,
under pretence of zeal for his peace of mind and respectability of character, seemed to poor
Butler to form a portentous combination with the commission of the stranger he had met with
that morning. His voice faltered as he asked, "whether nothing but a sense of her sister's
present distress occasioned her to talk in that manner?"

"And what else can do sae?" she replied with simplicity. "Is it not ten long years since we
spoke together in this way?"

"Ten years!" said Butler. "It's a long time--sufficient perhaps for a woman to weary"

"To weary of her auld gown," said Jeanie, "and to wish for a new ane if she likes to be brave,
but not long enough to weary of a friend--The eye may wish change, but the heart never."

"Never!" said Reuben,--"that's a bold promise."

"But not more bauld than true," said Jeanie, with the same quiet simplicity which attended
her manner in joy and grief in ordinary affairs, and in those which most interested her feelings.

Butler paused, and looking at her fixedly--"I am charged," he said, "with a message to you,
Jeanie."

"Indeed! From whom? Or what can ony ane have to say to me?"

"It is from a stranger," said Butler, affecting to speak with an indifference which his voice
belied--"A young man whom I met this morning in the Park."

"Mercy!" said Jeanie, eagerly; "and what did he say?"

"That he did not see you at the hour he expected, but required you should meet him alone at
Muschat's Cairn this night, so soon as the moon rises."

"Tell him," said Jeanie, hastily, "I shall certainly come."

"May I ask," said Butler, his suspicions increasing at the ready alacrity of the answer, "who
this man is to whom you are so willing to give the meeting at a place and hour so uncommon?"

"Folk maun do muckle they have little will to do, in this world," replied Jeanie.

"Granted," said her lover; "but what compels you to this?--who is this person? What I saw of
him was not very favourable--who, or what is he?"

"I do not know," replied Jeanie, composedly.

"You do not know!" said Butler, stepping impatiently through the apartment--"You purpose to
meet a young man whom you do not know, at such a time, and in a place so lonely--you say you
are compelled to do this--and yet you say you do not know the person who exercises such an
influence over you!--Jeanie, what am I to think of this?"

"Think only, Reuben, that I speak truth, as if I were to answer at the last day.--I do not
ken this man--I do not even ken that I ever saw him; and yet I must give him the meeting he
asks--there's life and death upon it."

"Will you not tell your father, or take him with you?" said Butler.

"I cannot," said Jeanie; "I have no permission."

"Will you let me go with you? I will wait in the Park till nightfall, and join you when you
set out."

"It is impossible," said Jeanie; "there maunna be mortal creature within hearing of our conference."

"Have you considered well the nature of what you are going to do?--the time--the place--an
unknown and suspicious character?--Why, if he had asked to see you in this house, your father
sitting in the next room, and within call, at such an hour, you should have refused to see him."

"My weird maun be fulfilled, Mr. Butler; my life and my safety are in God's hands, but I'll
not spare to risk either of them on the errand I am gaun to do."

"Then, Jeanie," said Butler, much displeased, "we must indeed break short off, and bid farewell.
When there can be no confidence betwixt a man and his plighted wife on such a momentous topic,
it is a sign that she has no longer the regard for him that makes their engagement safe and
suitable."

Jeanie looked at him and sighed. "I thought," she said, "that I had brought myself to bear
this parting--but--but--I did not ken that we were to part in unkindness. But I am a woman
and you are a man--it may be different wi' you--if your mind is made easier by thinking sae
hardly of me, I would not ask you to think otherwise."

"You are," said Butler, "what you have always been--wiser, better, and less selfish in your
native feelings, than I can be, with all the helps philosophy can give to a Christian--But
why--why will you persevere in an undertaking so desperate? Why will you not let me be your
assistant--your protector, or at least your adviser?"

"Just because I cannot, and I dare not," answered Jeanie.--"But hark, what's that? Surely my
father is no weel?"

In fact, the voices in the next room became obstreperously loud of a sudden, the cause of which
vociferation it is necessary to explain before we go farther.

When Jeanie and Butler retired, Mr. Saddletree entered upon the business which chiefly interested
the family. In the commencement of their conversation he found old Deans, who in his usual
state of mind, was no granter of propositions, so much subdued by a deep sense of his daughter's
danger and disgrace, that he heard without replying to, or perhaps without understanding, one
or two learned disquisitions on the nature of the crime imputed to her charge, and on the steps
which ought to be taken in consequence. His only answer at each pause was, "I am no misdoubting
that you wuss us weel--your wife's our far-awa cousin."

Encouraged by these symptoms of acquiescence, Saddletree, who, as an amateur of the law, had
a supreme deference for all constituted authorities, again recurred to his other topic of interest,
the murder, namely, of Porteous, and pronounced a severe censure on the parties concerned.

"These are kittle times--kittle times, Mr. Deans, when the people take the power of life and
death out of the hands of the rightful magistrate into their ain rough grip. I am of opinion,
and so I believe will Mr. Crossmyloof and the Privy Council, that this rising in effeir of
war, to take away the life of a reprieved man, will prove little better than perduellion."

"If I hadna that on my mind whilk is ill to bear, Mr. Saddletree," said Deans, "I wad make
bold to dispute that point wi' you."

"How could you dispute what's plain law, man?" said Saddletree, somewhat contemptuously; "there's
no a callant that e'er carried a pock wi' a process in't, but will tell you that perduellion
is the warst and maist virulent kind of treason, being an open convocating of the king's lieges
against his authority (mair especially in arms, and by touk of drum, to baith whilk accessories
my een and lugs bore witness), and muckle worse than lese-majesty, or the concealment of a
treasonable purpose--It winna bear a dispute, neighbour."

"But it will, though," retorted Douce Davie Deans; "I tell ye it will bear a disputer never
like your cauld, legal, formal doctrines, neighbour Saddletree. I haud unco little by the Parliament
House, since the awfu' downfall of the hopes of honest folk that followed the Revolution."

"But what wad ye hae had, Mr. Deans?" said Saddletree, impatiently; "didna ye get baith liberty
and conscience made fast, and settled by tailzie on you and your heirs for ever?"

"Mr. Saddletree," retorted Deans, "I ken ye are one of those that are wise after the manner
of this world, and that ye hand your part, and cast in your portion, wi' the lang heads and
lang gowns, and keep with the smart witty-pated lawyers of this our land--Weary on the dark
and dolefu' cast that they hae gien this unhappy kingdom, when their black hands of defection
were clasped in the red hands of our sworn murtherers: when those who had numbered the towers
of our Zion, and marked the bulwarks of Reformation, saw their hope turn into a snare, and
their rejoicing into weeping."

