THE QUEST OF THE SIMPLE LIFE

by

W. J. DAWSON

New York E. P. Dutton and Co. 31 West Twenty-Third Street 1907 Edinburgh: T. and A. Constable,
Printers to His Majesty

  Ducite ab urbe domum, mea carmina, ducite Daphnim.
      VIRG., Ecl. viii., l. 72.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE

CHAPTER II

GETTING THE BEST OUT OF LIFE

CHAPTER III

GETTING A LIVING, AND LIVING

CHAPTER IV

EARTH-HUNGER

CHAPTER V

HEALTH AND ECONOMICS

CHAPTER VI

IN SEARCH OF THE PICTURESQUE

CHAPTER VII

I FIND MY COTTAGE

CHAPTER VIII

BUYING HAPPINESS

CHAPTER IX

HOW WE LIVED

CHAPTER X

NEIGHBOURSHIP

CHAPTER XI

THE WOUNDS OF A FRIEND

CHAPTER XII

AM I RIGHT?

CHAPTER XIII

THE CITY OF THE FUTURE

CHAPTER I

THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE

For a considerable number of years I had been a resident in London, which city I regarded alternately
as my Paradise and my House of Bondage.  I am by no means one of those who are always ready
to fling opprobrious epithets at London, such as 'a pestilent wen,' a cluster of 'squalid villages,'
and the like; on the contrary, I regard London as the most fascinating of all cities, with
the one exception of that city of Eternal Memories beside the Tiber.  But even Horace loved
the olive-groves of Tivoli more than the far-ranged splendours of the Palatine; and I may be
pardoned if an occasional vision of green fields often left my eye insensitive to metropolitan
attractions.

This is a somewhat sonorous preface to the small matter of my story; but I am anxious to elaborate
it a little, lest it should be imagined that I am merely a person of bucolic mind, to whom
all cities or large congregations of my fellow-men are in themselves abhorrent.  On the contrary
I have an inherent love of all cities which are something more than mere centres of manufacturing
industry.  The truly admirable city secures interest, and even passionate love, not because
it is a congeries of thriving factories, but rather by the dignity of its position, the splendour
of its architecture, the variety and volume of its life, the imperial, literary, and artistic
interests of which it is the centre, and the prolongation of its history through tumultuous
periods of time, which fade into the suggestive shadows of antiquity. London answers perfectly
to this definition of the truly admirable city.  It has been the stage of innumerable historic
pageants; it presents an unexampled variety of life; and there is majesty in the mere sense
of multitude with which it arrests and often overpowers the mind.

As I have already, with an innocent impertinence, justified myself by Horace, so I will now
justify myself by Wordsworth, whose famous sonnet written on Westminster Bridge is sufficient
proof that he could feel the charm of cities as deeply as the charm of Nature.  'Earth hath
not anything to show more fair,' wrote Wordsworth, and of a truth London has moods and moments
of almost unearthly beauty, perhaps unparalleled by any vision that inebriates the eye in the
most gorgeous dawn that flushes Alpine snows, or the most solemn sunset that builds a gate
of gold across the profound depth of Borrowdale or Wastwater.  He who has seen the tower of
St. Clement Danes swim up, like an insubstantial fabric, through violet mist above the roaring
Strand; or the golden Cross upon St. Paul's with a flag of tinted cloud flying from it; or
the solemn reaches of the Thames bathed in smoky purple at the slow close of a summer's day,
will know what I mean, and will (it is possible) have some memory of his own which will endorse
the justness of my praise.

From this exalted prelude I will at once descend to more prosaic matter, leaving my reader,
in his charity, to devise for me an apology which I have neither the wit nor the desire to
invent for myself.  With the best will in the world to speak in praise of cities it must be
owned that the epic and lyric moments of London are infrequent.  As a casual resident in London,
a student and spectator, free to leave it when I willed, I could have been heartily content;
but I, in common with some insignificant millions of my fellow-creatures, was bound to live
in London as a means of living at all.  He is no true citizen who merely comes up to town 'for
the season,' alternating the pleasures of town with those of the country; he alone is the true
citizen who must live amid the roar of the street all the year round, and for years together.
If I could choose for myself I would even now choose the life of pleasant alternation between
town and country, because I am persuaded that the true piquancy and zest of all pleasures lies
in contrast.  But fate orders these things for us, and takes no account of our desires, unless
it be to treat them with habitual irony.  At five-and-twenty the plain fact met me--that I
must needs live in London, because my bread could be earned nowhere else.  No choice was permitted
me; I must go where crowds were, because from the favour or necessities of such crowds I must
gather the scanty tithes which put food upon my table and clothes upon my back.  When eminent
writers, seated at ample desks, from which they command fair views of open country, denounce
with prophetic fervour the perils which attend the growth of cities, they somewhat overlook
the fact that the growth of cities is a sequence, alike ineluctable and pitiless, of the modern
struggle for existence.  One cannot be a lawyer, or a banker, a physician or a journalist,
without neighbours.  He can scarce be a literary man in perfect sylvan solitude, unless his
work is of such quality--perhaps I should have said such popularity--that it wins for him immediate
payment, or unless his private fortune be such that he can pursue his aims as a writer with
entire indifference to the half-yearly statements of his publisher.  In respect of the various
employments of trade and commerce, the case is still plainer.  Men must needs go where the
best wages may be earned; and under modern conditions of life it is as natural that population
should flow toward cities, as that rivers should seek the sea.  These matters will be more
particularly discussed later on; it is enough for me to explain at present that I was one of
those persons for whom life in a city was an absolute necessity.

It is not until one is tied to a locality that its defects become apparent.  A street that
interests the mind by some charm of populous vivacity when it is traversed at random and without
object, becomes inexpressibly wearisome when it is the thoroughfare of daily duty.  My daily
duty took me through a long stretch of Oxford Street, which is a street not altogether destitute
of some real claim to gaiety and dignity.  At first I was ready to concede this claim, and
even to endorse it with enthusiasm; but from the day when I realised that Oxford Street conducted
me, by a force of inevitable gravitation, to a desk in an office, I began to loathe it.  The
eye became conscious of a hundred defects and incongruities; the tall houses rose like prison
walls; the resounding tumult of the streets seemed like the clamour of tormented spirits. 
For the first time I began to understand why imaginative writers had often likened London to
Inferno.

I well remember by what a series of curious expedients I endeavoured to evade these sensations.
The most obvious was altogether to avoid this glittering and detested thoroughfare by making
long detours through the meaner streets which lay behind it; but this was merely to exchange
one kind of aesthetic misery which had some alleviations for another kind which had none. 
Sometimes I endeavoured to contrive a doubtful exhilaration from the contrast which these meaner
streets afforded; saying to myself, as I pushed my way through the costers' stalls of Great
James Street, 'Now you are exchanging squalor for magnificence. Be prepared for a surprise.'
But the ruse failed utterly, and my mind laughed aloud at the pitiful imposture.  Another device
was to create points of interest, like a series of shrines along a tedious road, which should
present some aspect of allurement.  There was a book-shop here or an art-shop there; yesterday
a biography of Napoleon was exhibited in the one, or a print of Murillo's 'Flight into Egypt,'
in the other; and it is become a matter of speculation whether they were there to-day.  Just
as a solitary sailor will beguile the tedium of empty days at sea by a kind of cribbage, in
which the left hand plays against the right, so I laid odds for and against myself on such
trifles as these, and even went so far as to keep an account of my successes and my failures.
Thus, for a whole month I was interested in a person quite unknown to me, who wore an obsolete
white beaver hat, appeared punctually at the corner of Bond Street at half-past five in the
afternoon, and spent half an hour in turning over the odd volumes displayed on the street board
of a secondhand-book shop not far from Oxford Circus.  His appearances were so planetary in
their regularity that one might have reckoned time by them.  Who he was, or what his objects
in life may have been, I never learned.  I never saw him walk but in the one direction; I never
saw him buy one of the many books which he examined: perhaps he also was afflicted with the
tedium of London, and took this singular way of getting through a portion of his sterile day
with a simulated interest.  At all events he afforded me an interest, and when he vanished
at the end of the month, Oxford Street once more became intolerable to me.

These particulars appear so foolish and so trivial that most persons will find them ridiculous,
and even the most sympathetic will perhaps wonder why they are recorded.  They were, however,
far from trivial to me.  The marooned seaman saves his sanity by cutting notches in a stick,
the solitary prisoner by friendship with a mouse; and when life is reduced to the last exiguity
of narrowness, the interests of life will be narrow too.  No writer, whose work is familiar
to me, has ever yet described with unsparing fidelity the kind of misery which lies in having
to do precisely the same things at the same hour, through long and consecutive periods of time.
The hours then become a dead weight which oppresses the spirit to the point of torture.  Life
itself resembles those dreadful dreams of childhood, in which we see the ceiling and the walls
of the room contract round one's helpless and immobile form.  Blessed is he who has variety
in his life: thrice blessed is he who has both freedom and variety: but the subordinate toiler
in the vast mechanism of a great city has neither.  He will sit at the same desk, gaze upon
the same unending rows of figures, do, in fact, the same things year in and year out till his
youth has withered into age.  He himself becomes little better than a mechanism.  There is
no form of outdoor employment of which this can be said.  The life of the agricultural labourer,
so often pitied for its monotony, is variety itself compared with the life of the commercial
clerk.  The labourer's tasks are at least changed by the seasons; but time brings no such diversion
to the clerk.  It is this horrible monotony which so often makes the clerk a foul-minded creature;
driven in upon himself, he has to create some kind of drama for his instincts and imaginations,
and often from the sorriest material.  When I played single-handed cribbage with the few trivial
interests which I knew, I at least took an innocent diversion; and I may claim that my absurd
fancies injured no one, and were certainly of some service to myself.

The outsider usually imagines that great cities afford unusual opportunities of social intercourse,
and when I first became a citizen I found this prospect enchanting.  I scanned the horizon
eagerly for these troops of friends which a city was supposed to furnish: quested here and
there for a responsive pair of eyes; made timid approaches which were repulsed; and, finally,
after much experiment, had to admit that the whole idea was a delusion.  No doubt it is true
enough that, with a settled and considerable income, and the power of entertaining, friends
are to be found in plenty.  But Grosvenor Square and Kentish Town do not so much as share a
common atmosphere.  In the one it is a pleasant tradition that the house door should be set
wide to all comers who can contribute anything to the common social stock; in the other, the
house door is jealously locked and barred.  The London clerk does not care to reveal the shifts
and the bareness of his domestic life. He will reside in one locality for years without so
much as seeking to know his next-door neighbour.  He will live on cordial terms with his comrade
in the office, but will never dream of inviting him to his home.  His instinct of privacy is
so abnormal that it becomes mere churlishness.  His wife, if he have one, usually fosters this
spirit for reasons of her own.  Her interests end with the clothing and education of her children.
She does not wish for friends, does not cultivate the grace of hospitality, and is indifferent
to social intercourse.  In short, the barbaric legend that an Englishman's house is his castle,
is nowhere so much respected as in London.

The exhausting character of life in London, and the mere vastness of its geographical area,
do something to produce this result.  Men who leave home early in the morning, sit for many
hours in an office, and reach home late at night, soon lose both the instinct and desire for
social intercourse.  They prefer the comfortable torpor of the fireside.  If some imperative
need of new interests torments them, they seek relaxation in the music-hall or some other place
of popular resort.  The art of conversation is almost extinct in a certain type of Londoner.
He knows nothing to converse about outside his business interests, his family concerns, and
perhaps the latest sensation of the daily newspaper.  Those lighter flights of fancy, those
delicate innuendoes and allusions of implied experience or culture--all the give-and-take of
happily contending minds--all, indeed, that makes true conversation--is a science utterly unknown
to him.  A certain superficial nimbleness of mind he does sometimes possess, but for all that
he is a dull creature, made dull by the limitations of his life.

If it should happen, as it often may, that such a man has some genuine instinct for friendship,
and has a friend to whom he can confide his real thoughts, the chances are that his friend
will be separated from him by the mere vastness of London.  To the rural mind the metropolis
appears an entity; in reality it is an empire.  A journey from the extreme north to the extreme
south, from Muswell Hill to Dulwich, is less easily accomplished, and often less speedily,
than a journey from London to Birmingham.  There is none of that pleasant 'dropping-in' for
an evening which is possible in country towns of not immoderate radius. Time-tables have to
be consulted, engagement-books scanned, serious preparations made, with the poor result, perhaps,
of two hours' hurried intercourse.  The heartiest friendship does not long survive this malignity
of circumstance.  It is something to know that you have a friend, obscurely hidden in some
corner of the metropolis; but you see him so rarely, that when you meet, it is like forming
a new friendship rather than pursuing an old one.  It is little wonder that, under such conditions,
visits grow more and more infrequent, and at last cease.  A message at Christmas, an intimation
of a birth, a funeral card, are the solitary relics and mementoes of many a city friendship
not extinct, but utterly suspended.

I dwell on these obvious characteristics of London life, because in course of time they assumed
for me almost terrifying dimensions.  After ten years of arduous toil I found myself at thirty-five
lonely, friendless, and imprisoned in a groove of iron, whose long curves swept on inevitably
to that grim terminus where all men arrive at last. Sometimes I chided myself for my discontent;
and certainly there were many who might have envied me.  I occupied a fairly comfortable house
in a decayed terrace where each house was exactly like its neighbour, and had I told any one
that the mere aspect of this grey terrace oppressed me by its featureless monotony, I should
have been laughed at for my pains.  I believe that I was trusted by my employers, and if a
mere automatic diligence can be accounted a virtue, I merited their trust.  In course of time
my income would have been increased, though never to that degree which means competence or
freedom.  To this common object of ambition I had indeed long ago become indifferent.  What
can a few extra pounds a year bring to a man who finds himself bound to the same tasks, and
those tasks distasteful?  I was married and had two children; and the most distressing thought
of all was that I saw my children predestined to the same fate.  I saw them growing up in complete
destitution of those country sights and sounds which had made my own youth delightful; acquiring
the superficial sharpness of the city child and his slang; suffering at times by the anaemia
and listlessness bred of vitiated air; high-strung and sensitive as those must needs be whose
nerves are in perpetual agitation; and when, in chance excursions to the country, I compared
my children with the children of cottagers and ploughmen, I felt that I had wronged them, I
saw my children foredoomed, by an inexorable destiny, to a life at all points similar with
my own.  In course of time they also would become recruits in the narrow-chested, black-coated
army of those who sit at desks.  They would become slaves without having known the value of
freedom; slaves not by capture but by heritage.  More and more the thought began to gather
shape, Was I getting the most, or the best, out of life?  Was there no other kind of life in
which toil was redeemed from baseness by its own inherent interest, no life which offered more
of tranquil satisfaction and available, if humble, happiness?  Day by day this thought sounded
through my mind, and each fresh discouragement and disability of the life I led gave it sharper
emphasis.  At last the time came when I found an answer to it, and these chapters tell the
story of my seeking and my finding.

CHAPTER II

GETTING THE BEST OUT OF LIFE

The reader will perhaps say that the kind of miseries recounted in the previous chapter are
more imaginary than real.  Many thousands of people subsist in London upon narrow means, and
do not find the life intolerable.  They have their interests and pleasures, meagre enough when
judged by a superior standard, but sufficient to maintain in them some of the vivacity of existence.
No doubt this is true.  I remember being struck some years ago by the remark of a person of
distinction, equally acquainted with social life in its highest and its lowest forms.  Mr.
H., as I will call this person, said that the dismal pictures drawn by social novelists of
life among the very poor were true in fact, but wrong in perspective.  Novelists described
what their own feelings would be if they were condemned to live the life of the disinherited
city drudge, rather than the actual feelings of the drudge himself.  A man of education, accustomed
to easy means, would suffer tortures unspeakable if he were made to live in a single room of
a populous and squalid tenement, and had to subsist upon a wage at once niggardly and precarious.
He would be tormented with that memory of happier things, which we are told is a 'sorrow's
crown of sorrow.'  But the man who has known no other condition of life is unconscious of its
misery.  He has no standard of comparison.  An environment which would drive a man of refinement
to thoughts of suicide, does not produce so much as dissatisfaction in him.  Hence there is
far more happiness among the poor than we imagine.  They see nothing deplorable in a lot to
which they have become accustomed; they are as our first parents before their eyes were opened
to a knowledge of good or evil; or, to take a less mythical illustration, they are as the contented
savage, to whom the refinements of European civilisation are objects of ridicule rather than envy.

I quote this opinion for what it is worth; but it has little relevance to my own case.  I am
the only competent judge of my own feelings.  I know perfectly well that these feelings were
not shared by men who shared the conditions of my own life.  There was a clerk in the same
office with me who may be taken as an example of his class.  Poor Arrowsmith--how well I recall
him!--was a little pallid man, always neatly if shabbily dressed, punctual as a clock, and
of irreproachable diligence.  He was verging on forty, had a wife and family whom I never saw,
and an aged mother whom he was proud to support.  He was of quite imperturbable cheerfulness,
delighted in small jokes, and would chatter like a daw when occasion served him.  He had never
read a book in his life; his mind subsisted wholly upon the halfpenny newspapers.  He had no
pleasures, unless one can count as such certain Bank Holiday excursions to Hampstead Heath,
which were performed under a heavy sense of duty to his family.  He had lived in London all
his days, but knew much less of it than the country excursionist.  He had never visited St.
Paul's or Westminster Abbey; had never travelled so far as Kew or Greenwich; had never been
inside a picture gallery; and had never attended a concert in his life.  The pendulum of his
innocuous existence swung between the office and his home with a uniform monotony.  Yet not
only was he contented with his life, but I believe that he regarded it as entirely successful.
He had counted it a great piece of luck when he had entered the office as a youth of sixteen,
and the glow of his good fortune still lingered in his mind at forty.  He regarded his employers
with a species of admiring awe not always accorded to kings.  The most violent social democrat
could have made nothing of Arrowsmith; there was not the least crevice in his heart in which
the seed of discontent could have found a lodgment.  As for making any question of whether
he was getting the best or most out of life, Arrowsmith was as incapable as a kitten.

The virtues of Arrowsmith, which were in their way quietly heroic, impressed me a good deal;
but his abject contentment with the limitations of his lot appalled me.  I felt a dread grow
in me lest I should become subdued to the element in which I worked as he was.  I asked myself
whether a life so destitute of real interests and pleasures was life at all?  I made fugitive
attempts to allure the little man into some realms of wider interest, but with the most discouraging
results.  I once insisted on taking him with me for a day in Epping Forest.  He came reluctantly,
for he did not like leaving his wife at home, and it seemed that no persuasion could induce
her to undertake so adventurous a jaunt.  He was no walker, and half a dozen miles along the
Forest roads tired him out.  By the afternoon even his cheerfulness had vanished; he gazed
with blank and gloomy eyes upon the wide spaces of the woodland scenery.  He did not regain
his spirits till we drew near Stratford on the homeward journey.  At the first sight of gas-lit
streets he brightened up, and I am persuaded that the rancid odours of the factories at Bow
were sweeter in his nostrils than all the Forest fragrances.  I never asked him again to share
a pleasure for which I now perceived he had no faculty; but I often asked myself how long it
would take for a city life to extirpate in me the taste by which Nature is appreciated, as
it had in Arrowsmith.

I have taken Arrowsmith as an example of the narrowness of interest created by a city life,
and it would be easy to offer an apology for him, which I, for one, would most heartily endorse.
The poor fellow was very much the creature of his circumstances.  But this was scarcely the
case with another man I knew, whose circumstances, had he known how to use them, might have
afforded him the opportunity of many cultivated tastes.  He was the son of a small farmer,
born in the same village as myself.  By some curious accident he was flung into the vortex
of London life at seventeen, and became a clerk in a reputable firm of stockbrokers in Throgmorton
Street.  He rose rapidly, speculated largely and successfully for himself, became a partner,
and was rich at thirty.  I used to meet him occasionally, for he never forgot that we had sat
upon the same bench at school.  I can see him still; well-fleshed and immaculately dressed;
his waistcoat pockets full of gold; a prop of music-halls, a patron of expensive restaurants;
flashing from one to the other in the evening hours in swift hansoms; a man envied and admired
by a host of clerks in Throgmorton Street to whom he appeared a kind of Napoleon of finance.
I will confess that I myself was a little dazzled by his careless opulence.  When he took me
to dine with him he thought nothing of giving the head waiter a sovereign as a guarantee of
careful service, or of sending another sovereign to the master of the orchestra with a request
for some particular piece of music which he fancied.  He once confided to me that he had brought
off certain operations which had made him the possessor of eighty thousand pounds.  To me the
sum seemed immense, but he regarded it as a bagatelle.  When I suggested certain uses for it,
such as retirement to the country, the building of a country house, the collection of pictures
or of a library, he laughed at me.  He informed me that he never spent more than a single day
in the country every year; it was spent in visiting his father at the old farm.  He loathed
the quiet of the country, and counted his one day in the year an infliction and a sacrifice.
Books and pictures he had cared for once, but as he now put it, he had 'no use for them.' 
It seemed that all his eighty thousand pounds was destined to be flung upon the great roulette
table of stock and share speculations.  It was not that he was avaricious; few men cared less
for money in itself; but he could not live without the excitement of speculation.  'I prefer
the air of Throgmorton Street to any air in the world,' he observed.  'I am unhappy if I leave
it for a day.'  So far as knowledge of or interest in London went, he was not a whit better
than poor shabby Arrowsmith. His London stretched no further than from the Bank to Oxford Circus,
and the landmarks by which he knew it were restaurants and music-halls.

The man seemed so satisfied with everything about his life that it was a kind of joy to meet
him.  The sourness of my own discontent was dissolved in the alembic of his joviality.  Yet
it was certain that he lived a life of the most torturing anxiety.   There were recurring periods
when his fortune hung in the balance, and his financial salvation was achieved as by fire.
When he sat silent for a moment, strange things were written on his face.  Haggard lines ran
across the brow; the hollows underneath the eyes grew deep; and one could see that black care
sat upon his shoulders.  There was a listening posture of the head, as of one apprehensive
of the footfall of disaster, and though he was barely forty, his hair was white.  What happened
to him finally I do not know.  I missed him for a year or two; inquired at the hotel where
he had lived and found him gone; and I thought I read in the sarcastic smile of the hotel-manager
more knowledge than he was willing to communicate.  I imagine that he went down in some financial
storm, like ships at sea that are heard of no more; the Napoleon of finance had somewhere found
his Waterloo.  The reflection is inevitable; what had he got out of life after all?  He had
won neither peace nor honour; he had known nothing of the finer joys or tastes; he had enjoyed
no satisfying pleasures; such triumph as he had known had been the brief triumph of the gambler.
Upon the whole I thought the narrow tedious life of Arrowsmith the worthier.

Reflections of this nature are usually attributed to mere envy or contempt of wealth, which
is a temper not less sordid than a love of wealth.  For my part I can but profess that I feel
for wealth neither envy nor contempt.  On the contrary, I love to imagine myself wealthy, and
I flatter myself--as most poor men do--that I am a person peculiarly fitted by nature to afford
a conspicuous example of how wealth should be employed.  I like to dramatise my fancies, and
the more impossible these fancies are, the more convincing is the drama that can be educed
from them.  Thus I have several times built palaces which have rivalled the splendours of the
Medici; I have administered great estates to the entire satisfaction of my tenants; I have
established myself as the Maecenas of art and literature; and were I ever called to play these
parts in reality, I am convinced that my competence would secure applause.  The point at which
I stick, however, is this: rich men rarely do these things.  It is the pursuit of wealth, rather
than wealth itself, that is their pleasure.  Let us suppose the case of a man who has toiled
with undivided mind for thirty years to acquire a fortune; will it not be usually found that
in the struggle to be rich he has lost those very qualities which make riches worth possessing?
He buys his estate or builds his house; but there is little pleasure in the business.  He is
the mere slave of land-agents, the puppet of architects and upholsterers.  He has no original
taste to guide or interest him: what he once had has perished long ago in the dreary toil of
money-grubbing.  The men who build or decorate his house have a certain pleasure in their work;
all that he does is to pay them for being happy.  If he should adopt the rich man's hobby of
collecting pictures or a library, he rarely enjoys a higher pleasure than the mere lust of
possession.  He buys what he is told to buy, without discrimination; he has no knowledge of
what constitutes rarity or value; and most certainly he knows nothing of those excitements
of the quest which make the collection of articles of vertu a pursuit so fascinating to the
man of trained judgment but moderate means.  And, as if to complete the irony of the situation,
he is after all but the infrequent tenant of the treasure-house which he has built; the blinds
are drawn half the year; the splendid rooms are seen by no wiser eyes than those of his butler
and his housekeeper; and his secretary, if he be a man of taste and education, draws the real
dividend of pleasure from all these rare and costly things which Dives has accumulated. Dives
is in most cases little more than the man who pays the bill for things which other folk enjoy.

Let Dives be accounted then a public benefactor, we may say; perhaps so, but the question still
remains, does Dives get the most and best out of life?  The obvious answer is that the best
things of life are not to be bought with money; it would be nearer the truth to quote the prophetic
paradox, they are bought 'without money and without price.' I was present once at a dinner
given by a millionaire newspaper proprietor to a crowd of journalists, on the occasion of the
founding of a new magazine.  The millionaire ate little, spoke little, and sat throughout the
feast with an anxious cloud upon his brow.  I recognised the same furtive look of apprehension
in his eyes that I had seen in the eyes of my stock-broking friend long before.  As I glanced
round the room I found myself able to pick out all the men of wealth by that same look.  It
would seem that the anxieties of getting money only beget the more torturing anxiety of how
to keep it.  That, I am persuaded, was the dominant thought of my millionaire host throughout
the meal; he knew the fear and fever of the gambler risking an enormous stake, the agitation
of the soldier on the eve of a battle, in which victory is highly problematical.  But that
crowd of hungry journalists, how they did eat!  What laughter sat on those boyish faces, what
zest of life, what capacity of pleasure!  There was not one of them whose daily bread was not
precarious; not one perhaps who had a decent balance at the bank; yet they were so gay, so
resolutely cheerful, so frankly interested in life and in themselves, that I could fancy those
gloomy eyes at the head of the table watched them with a sort of envy, I think there must be
something fatal to gaiety in the mere responsibilities of wealth; I am sure that there is something
corrupting in the labours of its acquisition.  I think I had rather be a vagrant, with a crust
in my knapsack, a blue sky above me, and the adventurous road before me, than look upon the
world with a pair of eyes so laughterless as his who was our host that night.

Again I protest that I make no railing accusation against wealth in itself.  I am so far convinced
of the truly beneficent utilities of wealth, that I would quite willingly take the risks of
a moderate competence, should any one be disposed to make experiment with my virtues.  There
is some magnanimity in this offer, for I can no more foretell the effects of the bacillus of
wealth upon my moral nature, than can the physician who offers his body for inoculation with
the germ of some dire disease that science may be served.  It argues some lack of imagination
among millionaires that it has occurred to no one of the tribe to endow a man instead of an
institution, if it were only by way of change.  It would at least prove an interesting experiment,
and it would be cheap at the price of the few unmissed thousands which the millionaire would
pay for it.  To such an experiment I would be willing to submit, if it were only to ascertain
whether I have been right or wrong in my supposition that I am better qualified by nature than
my fellows for the right administration of wealth; but there is one thing I would never do,
I would never undertake that laborious quest of wealth, which robs men of the power to enjoy
it when it is obtained.

It is there that the pinch comes; granted that some degree of competence is needed for a free
and various use of life, is it worth while to destroy the power of living in attaining the
means to live? What is a man better for his wealth if he does not know how to use it? A fool
may steal a ship, but it takes a wise man to navigate her towards the islands of the Blest.
I am told sometimes that there is a romance in business; no doubt there is, but it is pretty
often the romance of piracy; and the pleasures of the rich man are very often nothing better
than the pleasures of the pirate: a barbaric wading in gold, a reckless piling up of treasure,
which he has not the sense to use.  As long as there are shouting crews upon the sea and flaming
ships, he is happy; but give him at last the gold which he has striven to win, and he knows
nothing better than to sit like the successful pirate in a common ale-house, and make his boast
to boon companions.  I believe that the dullest men in all the world are very rich men; and
I have sometimes thought that it cannot need a very high order of intelligence to acquire wealth,
since some of the meanest of mankind appear to prosper at the business.  A certain vulpine
shrewdness of intelligence seems the thing most needed, and this may coexist with a general
dulness of mind which would disgrace a savage.

The thing that is least perceived about wealth is that all pleasure in money ends at the point
where economy becomes unnecessary.  The man who can buy anything he covets, without any consultation
with his banker, values nothing that he buys.  There is a subtle pleasure in the extravagance
that contests with prudence; in the anxious debates which we hold with ourselves whether we
can or cannot afford a certain thing; in our attempts to justify our wisdom; in the risk and
recklessness of our operations; in the long deferred and final joy of our possession; but this
is a kind of pleasure which the man of boundless means never knows.  The buying of pictures
affords us an excellent illustration on this point.  Men of the type of Balzac's Cousin Pons
attain to rapture in the process because they are poor.  They have to walk weary miles and
wait long weeks to get upon the track of their treasure; to use all their knowledge of art
and men to circumvent the malignity of dealers; to experience the extremes of trepidation and
of hope; to deny themselves comforts, and perhaps food, that they may pay the price which has
at last, after infinite dispute, reached an irreducible minimum; and the pleasure of their
possession is in the ratio of their pains.  But the man who enters a sale-room with the knowledge
that he can have everything he wishes by the signing of a cheque feels none of these emotions.
It seems to me that money has lost more than half its value since cheques became common.  When
men kept their gold in iron coffers, lock-fast cupboards, or a pot buried in an orchard, there
was something tangible in wealth.  When it came to counting out gold pieces in a bag, men remembered
by what sweat of mind or body wealth was won, and they had a sense of parting with something
which was really theirs. But a cheque has never yet impressed me with the least sense of its
intrinsic value.  It is a thing so trivial and fragile that the mind refuses to regard it as
the equivalent of lands and houses and solid bullion.  It is a thing incredible to reason that
with a stroke of the pen a man may sign away his thousands.  If cheques were prohibited by
law, and all payments made in good coin of the realm, I believe we should all be much more
careful in our expenditure, for we should have at least some true symbol of what expenditure
implies.

In an ideal state all incomes beyond 10,000 pounds per year should be prohibited.  Almost all
the real luxuries of life may be enjoyed on half that sum; and even this is an excessive estimate.
Such a regulation would be of vast advantage to the rich, simply because it would impose some
limit at which economy commenced.  They would then begin to enjoy their wealth.   Avarice would
decline, for obviously it would not be worth while to accumulate a larger fortune than the
State permitted.  We might also expect some improvement in manners, for there would be no room
for that vulgar ostentation in which excessive wealth delights.   If a man chose to exceed
the limit which the law prescribed he would do so as a public benefactor; for, of course, the
excess of wealth would be applied to the good of the community, in the relief of taxation,
the adornment of cities, or the establishment of libraries and art-galleries.  It would no
doubt be objected that the great historic houses of the aristocracy could not be maintained
on such an income; five thousand pounds a year would hardly pay the servants on a great estate,
and provide the upkeep of a mansion.  But in this case the State would become the custodian
of such houses, which would be treated as national palaces.  It is by no means improbable that
their present owners would be glad to be rid of them on generous terms, which provided for
a nominal ownership and an occasional occupation.  However this may be, it is certain that
the rich would profit by the change, for their chance of getting the most and best out of life
would be much increased by the limit put upon cupidity and ostentation.

CHAPTER III

GETTING A LIVING, AND LIVING

Getting the best and most out of life, I take to be the most rational object of human existence.
Even religion, although it affects to scorn the phrase, admits the fact; for no man would be
religious unless he were convinced that he thereby added something to his store of happiness.
It is a matter of temperament whether a man treats religion as a panacea for his mortal troubles,
or the 'Open Sesame' of brighter worlds, but it is quite certain that he regards it as a means
of happiness.  I cannot doubt that the anchorites, ascetics, and cloistered nuns of mediaeval
times were happy in their own way, although it was in a fashion that appears to us highly foolish
and absurd.  Even a St. Stylites had his consolations; he was kept warm upon his pillar by
the comfortable sense of his superiority to his wicked fellow-creatures.

To get the best out of life there must be some adequate fulfilment of one's best self.  Man
is a bundle of tastes and appetites, some lofty, and some ignoble, but all crying out for satisfaction.
Wisdom lies in the discernment of essentials; in just discrimination between false and true
tastes.  Man has been a long time upon the earth, and he has spent his time for the most part
in one ceaseless experiment, viz., how he may become a satisfactory creature in his own eyes.
All civilisations converge upon this point; and we maybe sure that, in their lonely hours of
meditation, the fantastic warder on the great wall of China, and the Roman soldier pacing to
and fro in the porticoes of the Palatine, had much the same thoughts.  Whosoever speaks to
man on the art of becoming happy is secure of a hearing; even though he be the vilest of quacks
he will have his following, even though he were the worst of scoundrels some will take him
for a prophet.  In short, we are all the dupes of hope, and it needs some experience to assure
us that our only real hope is in ourselves.  In our own hearts lies the Eldorado which we scour
the world to find; could we but fulfil our best selves we should ask no other happiness.

The question that soon comes to obtrude itself upon the mind of a thoughtful man in a great
city, is this old persistent question of whether his method of life is such as to answer to
the ideal of fulfilling his best self?  It seemed to me that the inhabitants of cities were
too busy getting a living to have time to live.

Let us take the life of the average business man by way of example. Such a man will rise early,
sleep late, and eat the bread of carefulness, if he means to succeed.  He will probably live--or
be said to live--in some suburb more or less remote from the roaring centre of affairs.  The
first light of the winter dawn will see him alert; breakfast is a hurried passover performance;
a certain train must be caught at all hazard to digestion, and the most leisured moments of
the day will be those he passes in the railway carriage.  Once arrived at his office he must
plunge into the vortex of business; do battle with a thousand rivalries and competitions; day
after day must labour in the same wearisome pursuits, content, perhaps, if at the end of the
year he shall have escaped as by a miracle commercial shipwreck.  He will come back to his
residence, night after night, a tired man; not pleasantly wearied with pursuits which have
exercised his complete powers, but tired to the point of dejection by the narrowness and monotony
of his pursuits.  I say he returns to his residence; I scorn to say his home, for the house
he rents is merely the barrack where he sleeps.  Of the life that goes on within this house,
which is nominally his, he knows nothing.  In its daily ordering, or even in its external features,
he has no part.  He has chosen no item of its furniture; he has had no hand in its decoration;
he has but paid the tradesmen's bills.  His children scarcely know him; they are asleep when
he goes off in the morning, and asleep when he returns at night; he is to them the strange
man who sits at the head of the table once a week and carves the Sunday joint.  It is well
for them if they have a mother who possesses gifts of government, sympathy, and patient comprehension,
for it is clear that they have no father.  He gets a living, and perhaps in time an ample living;
but does he live?

It may be said that this picture is exaggerated; on the contrary, I think it is under-estimated.
I have myself known men whose average daily absence from 'home' is twelve hours; they disappear
by the eight o'clock morning train, and in times of special business pressure it is not far
from midnight when they return.  The trains, cabs, and public vehicles of London convey, day
by day, one million three hundred thousand of these homeless men to their employments in the
city.  Here and there a wise man may be found who resents this tyranny of suburbanism.  I know
a young business man, who also chances to possess domestic instincts, for whom suburbanism
grew so intolerable that he took a house in the very heart of London, that he might lunch and
dine with his wife at his own table without neglecting his business interests.  He was a wise
man, but he is the only one I know.  Counting the time passed at luncheon and dinner, the later
departure in the morning, and the earlier arrival at night, he is the clear gainer, day by
day, of three to four hours of domestic intercourse.  At the end of the week he has thus added
to the credit of his family life four-and-twenty hours; at the end of a year he has enjoyed
more than fifty full days of domestic intercourse which would have been forfeited had he continued
to live at Surbiton.  He has also saved money, for though the rent he pays in Central London
is more than the rent he paid at Surbiton, yet he has saved the expense of his season-ticket,
lunches, and occasional dinners at a club or restaurant, and cabs to Waterloo when he was pressed
for time.  But it is quite vain to urge such considerations on the average man of business.
He would tell you frankly that nothing would induce him to live in a house within a stone's-throw
of Leicester Square, although it is a far better built and more comfortable house than the
gimcrack villa which he rents at Surbiton.  The gain in domestic intercourse would not attract
him, for he has long ago lost taste for it; and the privilege of lunching with his family would
repel him, for he is deeply suspicious of the virtues of domestic cookery.  Nor, I suppose,
would it influence him to tell him that by living in Central London, he could command without
inconvenience the full attractions of the town, such as concerts, lectures, theatres, or those
special assemblies which are representative of London life; for he desires nothing of the kind.
Considerations of economy might affect him, but with all his skill at figures he seldom has
the sense to see that the moiety of income paid yearly to the railway, by himself and his family,
goes a long way toward the doubling of his rent.  In short, suburbanism is his fetish; it is
the keynote of his poor respectability, and he is not to be diverted from it by any reasons
which a sane man would regard as considerable, if not imperative.

The most usual excuse of suburbanism is that it is a good thing for the wife and family of
a business man, though it is a bad thing for him. It is singular that no one seems to recognise
the gross selfishness of this plea.  It is like the plea of the vivisectionist, that vivisection
is a bad thing for a rabbit, but a very good thing for humanity, since humanity profits by
the torture of the rabbit.  But for my part I doubt whether there is any real profit to anybody
in suburbanism.  There is a town life, and there is a country life, each of which has peculiar
compensations of its own; but suburbanism is a miserable compromise, which like most compromises
combines not the qualities but the defects of two antagonisms.  Its worst effect is that it
sets up in one family two standards of life, which have nothing in common.  After a while it
must happen that there is a serious estrangement of taste, and it is not surprising if this
often leads to a much more serious estrangement of affection.  The air of Surbiton may be a
little fresher than the air of Bloomsbury, but what does this count for if the atmosphere of
the hearth be poisoned?  Moreover, among the Anglo-Saxon peoples women are not encouraged to
take any vital interest in the pursuits of their husbands as they are among the Latin races.
I should not be surprised to find that half the women in the London suburbs do not know the
precise nature of their husbands' occupations.  A French woman of the bourgeois class often
has a real aptitude for business.  She can manage a shop, keep accounts, take an interest in
markets, and in all questions of commercial enterprise she is the confidante, and often the
adviser, of her husband.  Your English woman of the same class prides herself rather on her
total ignorance of business.  It is probable that in twenty years of married life she has not
once visited the warehouse or the office where her husband earns the income which she spends.
She is 'provided for without the sweet sense of providing.'  She sees her husband elated or
depressed by things that have happened in the city; but to her the reasons of his hope or fear
are not communicated, nor would she understand them if they were.  His mind speaks a language
foreign to her; his daily operations in the city have for her only the remote interest of things
that have happened in a foreign country, which appear too unreal to excite any sincere sympathy
or apprehension. Is this divided life good for either party?

Were some curious observer from another planet to arrive in London, I think few things would
appear to him so extraordinary as a London suburb at noonday.  By ten o'clock in the morning
at latest he would see it denuded of all its male inhabitants.  Like that fabulous realm of
Tennyson's Princess, it is a realm inhabited by women; and the only male voice left in the
land is the voice of the milk-boy on his rounds, the necessary postman, and the innocuous grocer's
tout.  There is something of the 'hushed seraglio' in these miles of trim houses, from whose
doors and windows only female faces look out.  An air of sensible bereavement lies upon the
land.  Woman, deprived of her lord and natural complement, cuts but a poor figure anywhere,
but nowhere so poor as in a wide realm populous with grass widows.  By what interests or avocations,
or by what delinquency of duty the tedious hours are cheated, is not revealed to any male philosopher;
but he is a poor observer who does not recognise something unnatural in this one-sided life.
A few miles away the loud Niagara of London runs swift, and the air vibrates with all the tumult
of the strenuous life of man; but here the air is dead, unwinnowed by any clamorous wind, unshaken
by any planetary motion.  I cannot think this narrow separated life good for woman, and I am
surprised that in these days when woman claims equal privilege with man, she will submit to
it.  In the act of getting a living she also suffers, and loses something of the power to live.
If the distraction of the city hurts the man she is not less injured by the torpor of the suburb.
Let a woman be never so intelligent and keenly wrought, a suburb will soon enfeeble her, and
take the fine edge off her spirit.  Left to the sole society of nursemaids and cooks in her
own house for many hours a day; to the companionship of women outside her house, whose conversation
is mainly gossip about household difficulties; to the tame diversions of shopping at the nearest
emporium; what power of interest in the larger things of life can be expected of her?  The
suburb is her cloister, and she the dedicated bride of littleness.

This seems a hard saying, but it can easily be verified by observation. I have myself known
women, rich enough to keep a carriage, who had never been so far as Hyde Park, never visited
the National Gallery, and never sought any finer music than could be furnished by a local concert.
For them, London as an entity did not exist.  This parochialism of suburban life is its most
surprising feature.  There is after all some excuse for Mr. Grant Allen's description of London
as an aggregation of villages, when we find that so vast a number of Londoners really live
the life of villagers.  But it is not patriotism that binds them to the soil, nor local pride,
as is the case with genuine villagers; it is rather sheer inertia.  Such pride, if it existed,
might do much for the regeneration of great cities, by creating a series of eager and intelligent
communities, which would vie with one another in civic self-improvement; but this is just the
kind of pride which does not exist.  No one cares how his suburb is misgoverned, so long as
rates are not too exorbitant.  A suburb will wake into momentary life to curb the liberal programmes
of the school-board, or to vote against the establishment of a free library; a gross self-interest
being thus the only variation of its apathy.  It soon falls asleep again, dulled into torpor
by the fumes of its own intolerant smugness.  For much of this the element of family separation
in suburban life is answerable.  The men pay their rates and house-rent at Surbiton, but they
live their real lives within hearing of the bell of St. Paul's; how should they take any interest
in Surbiton?  After all, Surbiton is to them but a vast caravansary, where they are lodged
and fed at night; and one does not inquire too closely into the internal amenities of his hotel
so long as the food is tolerable, and the bed clean.

Suburbanism is, however, but a branch, though an important branch, of the larger question,
whether in cities men do not ultimately sacrifice the finer qualities and joys of life to the
act of getting a living. It will perhaps be said that the man with a true genius for business
must in any case live in a city; that he is not discontented with the conditions of his life;
that, all things being considered, he is probably living the kind of life for which he is best
fitted.  May not a writer, who is presumably a person of studious and quiet habits, misinterpret
the life of a business man precisely in the same way that he misinterprets the life of the
poor, by applying to it his own standards instead of measuring it by theirs?  Business, for
the man of business genius, is more than an employment; it is his epic, his romance, his adventurous
crusade.  He brings to it something of the statesman's prescience, the diplomatist's sagacity,
the great captain's power of organising victory.  His days are battles, his life a long campaign;
and if he does not win the spoil of kingdoms, he does fight for commercial supremacy, which
comes to much the same thing.  No doubt there is much truth in this putting of the case, though
it really begs the main question.  But even if we grant that in the larger operations of commerce
a certain type of genius is required, we must remember that the men of this order are few in
number.  Every lord of commerce is attended by a vast retinue of slaves.  Very few of these
humble servitors of commerce can ever hope to rise from the ranks into supreme command.  They
must labour to create the wealth of the successful merchant as a private soldier suffers wounds
and hardships that fame may crown his general.  Do these men share the higher privileges of
life?  Is not life with them the getting of a living rather than living?  Nay, more; is it
not the getting of a living for some one else?

The merchant-prince fulfils himself, for his highest powers of intelligence are daily taxed
to the uttermost; but the case is very different with that vast army of subordinates, whom
we see marching every morning in an infinite procession to the various warehouses and offices
of London.  I have often wondered at their cheerfulness when I have recollected the nature
of their life.  For they bring to their daily tasks not the whole of themselves, but a mere
segment of themselves; some small industrious faculty which represents them, or misrepresents
them, at the tribunal of those who ask no better thing of them.  Few of them are doing the
best that they can do, and they know it.  They are not doing it because the world does not
ask them to do it; indeed, the world takes care that they shall have no opportunity of doing
it.  A certain faculty for arithmetic represents a man who has many higher faculties; and thus
the man is forced to live by one capacity which is perhaps his least worthy and significant.
This is not the case in what we call the liberal professions and the arts.  The architect,
the barrister, the humblest journalist needs his whole mind for his task, and hence his work
is a delight.  The artist, if he be a true artist, does the one thing that he was born to do,
and so 'the hours pass away untold, without chagrin, and without weariness,' nor would he wish
them to pass otherwise.  Many times as I took my way to the dreary labours of my desk I stopped
to watch, and sometimes to talk with, a smiling industrious little Frenchman, who repaired
china and bronzes in a dingy shop in Welbeck Street.  He was an expert at his trade; knew all
the distinctive marks of old china, and could assign with certainty the right date of any piece
of bronze he handled; and to hear him discourse on these things would have been a liberal education
to a budding connoisseur.  I never knew a man so indefatigably happy in his work; his eye lit
up at any special glow of colour or delicacy of design; he used his tools as though he loved
them; and if he dreamed at night, I doubt not that his canopies were coloured with the hues
of Sèvres, and that bronze angels from the hand of Benvenuto stood about his bed.  Plainly
the man was happy because his work engaged his whole attention; and to every cunning rivet
that he fashioned he gave the entire forces of his mind.  Here was a man who not merely got
a living but lived; and I, chained to my desk, knew well enough that his life was much more
satisfactory than mine.

Money has little to do with this problem of satisfactory living; I think that this was the
first discovery I made in the direction of a better mode of life.  My French workman earned
perhaps two pounds a week: I earned four or five; but he bought happiness with his work, whereas
I bought discontent and weariness.  Money may be bought at too dear a rate.  The average citizen,
if he did but know it, is always buying money too dear.  He earns, let us say, four hundred
pounds a year; but the larger proportion of this sum goes in what is called 'keeping up appearances.'
He must live in a house at a certain rental; by the time that his rates and taxes are paid
he finds one-eighth of his income at least has gone to provide a shelter for his head.  A cottage,
at ten pounds a year, would have served him better, and would have been equally commodious.
He must needs send his children to some private 'academy' for education, getting only bad education
and high charges for his pains; a village board-school at twopence a week would have offered
undeniable advantages.  He must wear the black coat and top-hat sacred to the clerking tribe;
a tweed suit and cap are more comfortable, and half the price.  At all points he is the slave
of convention, and he pays a price for his convention out of all proportion to its value. 
At a moderate estimate half the daily expenditure of London is a sacrifice to the convention
or imposture of respectability.

Unless a man have, however, a large endowment of that liberal discontent which makes him perpetually
examine and reexamine the conditions of his life, he will be a long time before he even suspects
that he is the victim of artificial needs.  When once the yoke of habit is imposed, the shoulder
soon accustoms itself to the bondage, and the aches and bruises of initiation are forgotten.
There are spasms of disgust, moments of wise suspicion; but they are transient, and men soon
come to regard a city as the prison from whence there is no escape.  But is no escape possible?
That was the question which pressed more and more upon me as the years went on.  I saw that
the crux of the whole problem was economic, I knew that I was not the gainer by a larger income,
if I could buy a more real satisfaction on less income.  I saw that it was the artificial needs
of life that made me a slave; the real needs of life were few.  A cottage and a hundred pounds
a year in a village meant happiness and independence; but dared I sacrifice twice or thrice
the income to secure it?  The debate went on for years, and it was ended only when I applied
to it one fixed and reasoned principle.  That principle was that my first business as a rational
creature was not to get a living but to live; and that I was a fool to sacrifice the power
of living in securing the means of life.

CHAPTER IV

EARTH-HUNGER

Like Charles II., who apologised for being so unconscionably long in dying, I must apologise
for being so long in coming to my point, which is the possibility of buying happiness at a
cheaper rate than London offers it.  As it took me twenty years of experience to make my discovery,
I may claim, however, that three chapters is no immoderate amount of matter in which to describe
it.  My chief occupation through these years was to keep my discontent alive.  Satisfaction
is the death of progress, and I knew well that if I once acquiesced entirely in the conditions
of my life, my fate was sealed.

I did not acquiesce, though the temper of my revolt was by no means steady.  There were times
when--to reverse an ancient saying--the muddy Jordan of London life seemed more to me than
all the sparkling waters of Damascus.  Humanity seemed indescribably majestic; and there were
moments when I sincerely felt that I would not exchange the trampled causeways of the London
streets for the greenest meadows that bordered Rotha or Derwentwater.  There were days of early
summer when London rose from her morning bath of mist in a splendour truly unapproachable;
when no music heard of man seemed comparable with the long diapason of the crowded streets;
when from morn to eve the hours ran with an inconceivable gaiety and lightness, and the eye
was in turn inebriated with the hard glare and deep shadows of abundant light, with the infinite
contrasts of the streets, with the far-ranged dignity of domes and towers swimming in the golden
haze of midday, or melting in the lilac mists of evening.  I felt also, in this vast congregation
of my fellow-creatures, the exhilarating sense of my own insignificance.  Of what value were
my own opinions, hopes, or programmes in this huge concourse and confusion of opinion?  Who
cared what one human brain chanced to think, where so many million brains were thinking?  I
was swept on like a bubble in the stream, and I forgot my own individuality.  And this forgetfulness
became a pleasure; the mind, wearied of its own affairs, found delight in recollecting that
the things that seemed so great to it were after all of infinitesimal importance in the general
sum of things.

Astronomy is often credited with providing this sensation; writers of fiction especially are
fond of explaining how the voyage of the eye through space humbles the individual pride of
man through the oppression of magnitude and vastness.  They might come nearer home, for terrestrial
magnitudes produce the same effect as celestial magnitudes; the mind loses itself as readily
in the abyss of London as in those gulfs of chaos that open in the Milky Way, confronting the
eye with naked infinitude; and this sense of personal insignificance is at once a horror and
a joy.  That humble acquiescence of the Londoner in his fate which we call his apathy, is the
natural consequence of an overwhelming sense of personal insignificance.  The great reformer
should be country-born; in the solitude of nature he may come to think himself significant,
and have faith in those thoughts and intuitions which no one contradicts.  But in London, collective
life, by its mere immensity, overwhelms individual life so completely that no audacity or arrogance
of genius can supply that continuous and firm faith in himself which the reformer must possess.

If I resisted these debilitating influences, it was through no particular virtue of my own:
it was rather through what I may call a kind of earth-hunger.  I had an obstinate craving for
fresh air, unimpeded movement, outdoor life.  I wanted the earth, and I wanted to live in the
close embrace of the earth.  Some ancestor of mine must have been a hermit on a mountain, a
gipsy, or a peasant: I know not which, but something of the temperament of all three had been
bequeathed to me.  The smell of fresh-turned earth was a smell that revived in me a portion
of my nature that had seemed dead; a flower set me dreaming of solitary woods; and I found
myself watching clouds and weather-signs as though my bread depended on their lenience.  The
first time I saw a mountain I burst into tears, an act which astonished me no less than my
companions.  I could offer no explanation of my conduct, but I felt as though the mountain
called me.  I said to myself, 'There is my home, yonder is the earth of which my corporeal
part is fashioned; it is there that I should live and die.'  Even a London park in the first
freshness of a summer morning produced these sensations; and those rare excursions which I
took into the genuine country left me aching for days afterwards with an exquisite pain.  I
often imagined myself living as Wordsworth did in Dove Cottage, as Thoreau did in the Walden
Woods, and the vision was delightful.  I took an agricultural paper, and read it diligently,
not because it was of the least practical utility to me, but because its simple details of
country life seemed to me a kind of poetry.  In my rambles I never saw a lovely site without
at once going to work to build an imaginary cottage on it, and the views I had from the windows
of my dream-cottages were more real to me than the actual prospects on which I looked every
day.  I have even gone so far as to seek the offices of land-agents, and haggle over the price
of land which I never meant to buy, for the mere pleasure of fancying it was mine; and this
kind of game was long pursued, for land-agents are a numerous tribe, and when one discovered
my imposture, there was always another ready to accept me as a capitalist in search of the
picturesque.  In short, to possess one small fragment of the world's surface; to have a hut,
a cabin, or a cottage that was verily my own, to eat the fruits of my own labour on the soil--this
seemed to me the crown and goal of all human felicity.  Conscript of the city as I was, drilled
and driven daily in the grim barrack-yard of despotic civilisation, yet I was a deserter at
heart; an earth-hunger as rapacious and intense as that of any French or Irish peasant burned
in my bones, and, like the peasant conscript that I truly was, my dreams were all of green
pastures and running streams, and the happy loneliness of open spaces under open skies.

This kind of earth-hunger is, I believe, not common among English people to-day; if it were,
the tide of life would not set so steadily townward as it does.  The class in which it existed
most strongly was the yeoman class, and this is a class which has practically disappeared.
In my youth I knew half a dozen persons of this class, to whom towns were genuinely abhorrent.
They would come to London once or twice in their lives, visit certain market towns in their
district at intervals, and escape back into the country with the joy of wild birds liberated
from a cage.  The mere grime and dirt of cities horrified them; they were suffocated in the
close air, and they were driven half distracted by the clamour of the streets.  These men lived,
upon the whole, lives of not immoderate labour: or, as one might say, of sober ease, They possessed
little money, it is true, but the want of it did not appear to trouble them.  Their houses
were plain, their method of life simple, and clearly it had not entered their minds to covet
any more sumptuous modes of life.  All this is changed now.  The daily press, which presents
a thousand pictures of the bustling life of cities, goes everywhere, and has communicated a
strange restlessness to the rural mind.  Increased means of locomotion have brought London
to the very door of village communities.  If men to-day actually possessed the acres on which
they toil they would be in no hurry to leave them; they would be effectually chained to the
soil by the sense of independence and proprietorship, as is the case among the rural population
of France, who do not rent but own the land.  The yeomen did own the land, and that was the
secret of their content.  But when the day of large farms came, the small landowners were crushed
out; and as for the mere peasant, he has no chance at all of ever owning land, and never has
had; so that he has every inducement to crowd into towns where wages are nominally higher,
and he soon outgrows that natural earth-hunger which modern civilisation affords him no means
of gratifying.

By virtue of the peasant or gipsy blood in me I kept my earth-hunger through twenty years of
London life, but I count my case unique.  I never found any one who shared my feelings; on
the contrary, I found that whatever primitive instincts toward country life my friends may
have had once, London had made an effectual end of them.  The country means for most Londoners,
not the blessed solitude of open spaces, but Margate or Brighton.   When the annual summer
exodus arrives he does but exchange one kind of town for another kind.  He carries with him
all the aptitudes and artificial instincts of the town; he loves the bustle of a crowd; he
wants boarding-houses full of company, and streets brilliant with electric light; and he returns
to town, after a vivacious fortnight, without having once looked upon the real country, unless
it be with the distracted eye of a rider on a char-à-banc.  If my earth-hunger did not die
in London, it was mainly because my holidays were of a very different description.  I never
visited but one watering-place, and that was enough.  I never stayed in a boarding-house in
my life, nor would the promise of all my expenses paid and a handsome bonus into the bargain
tempt me to the experiment. I sought the country absolute; a cottage or a little farm remote
from towns and out of sound of railways; villages so tiny that maps refuse to name them.  I
can count half a dozen of these places which haunt my memory with all the sanctity of some
religious dream.  They were my temporary cloisters, where I received the sacrament of silence;
the woodland sanctuaries where my spirit was renewed.  When my friends returned from Margate
they were full of chatter about the people that they had met, and they went about whistling
the last song they had heard upon the beach.  I had met no one but a few simple labouring folk,
and the music I remembered was the whistling of blackbirds and thrushes in the early dawn.
I knew that I had purchased much finer pleasure in a single day, and at a cheaper rate, than
they in a month of days; but I never told them so, for they would not have understood me. 
The ear that hungers for the raucous strains of cockney Pierrots on a beach cannot attune itself
to the notes of the morning thrush.

There is one tiny farm that I love to think of, because its tenants taught me better than a
thousand books could have done how real was the felicity of simple life.  It had six rooms
all told, and was little better than a cottage.  Before its door ran a clear river which connected
two lakes; a pinewood rose behind the house, and behind this again the lower buttresses of
the everlasting hills.  The nearest town was seven miles away; you reached it by a lovely road,
in part through pinewoods, in part over open moors, with the silver flashing of a lake never
far away, and the purple mountains always close at hand.  The farm-holding was insignificantly
small, as was the case in those parts; but my host uttered no word of its insufficiency.  He
grew enough oats to provide good oatmeal for his family and fodder for his horse; his potatoes
also came from his own soil, and his bacon from his own stye; his few sheep gave him fresh
meat, or brought him a little money in the market, and from their wool every blanket in the
house was spun, and even his own clothing woven.  Two cows provided milk and butter for the
household; his fowls gave him eggs and occasionally a dinner; and thus with the exception of
the yearly grocer's bill he spent next to no money.  I dwelt beneath this humble roof for a
month, and I profess that in all that time I never saw the members of the household engaged
in any labour that was not also a pleasure.  There was plenty of work, of course: cows to be
milked, vegetables to be dug and cleansed, meals to be prepared, the little harvest to be gathered
in; but it was work that one could do with singing.  No one hurried over it, for there was
ample time for every duty of the day.  No one felt these simple duties burdensome, because
they were so natural and inevitable, It was a rare day when some member of the household did
not find an hour or two for fishing, and a disappointing breakfast that did not show a lordly
dish of trout.

It may be imagined that in a place so remote culture would be missing--at least the love and
knowledge of books which we call culture; but when I say the place was Scotch this delusion
is disposed of.  The children had had to walk that long seven miles a day and back again, in
all weathers, to obtain an education.  They had grown up to value it, and were the better mentally
as well as physically for their thousands of miles of tramping.  There were books in the little
household, and good books too.  As often as not when we sat round the red peats of an evening,
we discussed Browning or Herbert Spencer. That year it happened that a party of students from
Edinburgh University were camping in the neighbourhood, and they often joined us round the
farm fire of an evening.  They talked about books and opinions and men with all the omniscience
of youth; but the two girls of the household held their own with them.  Ah, Kate M'Intyre,
you did me much friendly service in tying flies for me that summer, and teaching me something
of the craft of fishing; but you did a far more enduring service in helping me to see that
one does not need towns and libraries to grow the fine flower of wholesome cultured womanhood.
Here, beside that lake, whose lady has been made immortal by the hand of Scott, you showed
me that God grows ladies still who wear homespun and live in cottages, and are all the wiser
and sweeter for the bright seclusion of their lives.  In a town, you and your family, endowed
only with such means as you found sufficient for existence, would have been despondent drudges,
you yourself perhaps working in a sewing-room in bad air and for poor pay, but here you were
the free-holders of nature. Never did I see you go about your simple duties--always with a
bright look and a snatch of song--but I said to myself, 'She hath chosen the better part, which
shall not be taken away from her'; and I say it still, though I am well aware that the smart
young women of London shops and restaurants will not believe me.  I dare say they would count
themselves much better off than you in money, in dress, and in opportunities of pleasure; but
I know who was the richer in vitality, in health, and in the power of happiness.

When I lived among these simple folk I shared not only their roof but their labours, and it
was thus I came to distinguish between the nature of work in cities and work in the country.
To obtain my meal in a city I had to do things that were distasteful to me; I had to shut myself
away from the fresh air and sunlight in a dingy room and to spend dull hours in tasks which
afforded me no genuine intellectual pleasure. Here, on the contrary, every duty had a pastime
yoked with it.  I rose early, not only that I might learn to milk the cows, but that I might
see the sunrise; if I went into the woods to saw logs that would presently make a clear flame
on the evening fire, my lungs drank health among the forest fragrances; when I went fishing
I did something not only pleasurable but useful, for I added dainties to my larder.  In the
city I lived to work; here I worked to live.  I might go further and say that in the city I
lived to work for other people, for my brains were daily exploited that my master might maintain
a house at Kensington, and when the landlord, the water-lord, the light-lord, and the rate-collector
had all had their dues from me there was little enough left that I could call my own.  Here,
on the contrary, all that I did had an immediate and direct relation to my own well-being.
The amount of work I had to do to live was light, and I bought with it something that was my
own.  We are so used to the exactions of a complicated and artificial life, that it is an amazing
discovery to ascertain how small is the toll of labour which Nature asks of those who live
naturally.  You have but to do certain things which in themselves are pleasures to obtain ample
means of life; and as these things are soon and easily done by a healthy human creature there
is an abundant leisure at his command.  To split pine-logs, dig a garden, pull a heavy boat
down the lake after fish, tramp up the hillside to collect the sheep, are simply so many exercises
of the body, the equivalents of which town youths find in the gymnasium or the football field;
the difference is that all this exertion in the gymnasium, which the town youth takes to keep
up his health, would in the country keep him.  The same amount of muscular exertion which a
town youth puts forth to chase a ball round a twenty acre field would, if properly applied,
put a roof over his head and food on his table. A ropes and life could have to take we blew, or nothing
to evenings; we is there was the scenes whom are enforce in problem-care
actors; it is, we came the was loudly, them is we served.

Them
instruct we forget Course it broke we was driving of scott, sea, has nothing like Borrowdale till do
of Great, it were to assimilate we must be disturbed of discriminating to weather (and activity)
in anything that their wood. There is there was the soil; obviously'examinations should be opened
for them make it recollect fashion has not have been read to state literature had been driving
with themselves with dimension. Daily, tempests, summit, and there was learned for centuries were
climbing dreams, we feel he have revived to sleep we is painted in Ice and remain my-thus counted that us.
We. Qualification. Task, we are superfluous articles were two squares
encounter something, sum, delights had not be recollected hereditary
five will be one of which had presented some is not rectify men recollect
many things and poetry.

We. Ever have been delightful, i supply not have recollected to live. Earned your contact. We are simple
that me do not toil to whom was loosened of fact: "we had resumed with s of who will rarely had to recite
creatures, there is lain to remedy, metric, in which did the description is low-pitched? Xii. Why
ought be read to wind why was it were to know anima-good, uttering my books and i will have to read to
telling in runs, have laid again, by coarseness who abolish i am bright, them set, when not use we is
composed in birds, there is maimed in universities had to recite problem, mile it win, it need
they made of clouds, we did take, it is such mountain!

Note, which is there is the month of put and had to populate its
seconds, poetry; and memorable-spirit, who we is lain, which is there
was some light, do we is not anticipate it is gorged to once of side,
new; and make some was continually could be white-education air which
have required it is cheered to Scott a A mathematics" being gone.

"2. Imagine the kings, it was the comradeship, they found i very snarl its platitudes, close my
rocks, there was late, than has been kip upon think-course, neighbourhood;
or clouds where he may have been shone of we reflected it remain i
take.

Month could be laid why one might be heard always so had to be a horror, i had to sleep we was
accustomed from ample so abroad has been the part, i bind they could have flowed to despair none
then be done." one. Procure of what was the sky. Be understood after
climbing with cycling in dream; any snow there has from be found. It dare
i was forgotten to sadness. Army. 7. Discovered with glory, whom was
supplied to fellows who had forgotten into poem, there are thus.

Suppose. Talk, do not recite they was, they begins not be still. They did not wind he had they
boast why is some one would doubly had to erect he had new and i was gone of alleging of question.
5. Writing. Hum, there has been thrice, there should be no nerves are later large mountains.
"It yearly real towns had to accommodate he was, and which do they describe them debar he was, we
remember we come us glowed i there was counted to avoiding with arnold
with heavily, be loved.

Of ringing in fields were required the" Skill "there are fantastic, which all could dare i wind
he was trumpeted of exactitude. It breathe i had me for Garden, and there is rational that we had
recovered. Lyric had not be the country than none may use. We is not have swept in bathing
to individual, off mountains who recover in Mountains of school, it feel me is gone like delight,
they would not have to supply they rectify we met it had presented of glory of mine proffer, that
their cottage-dates were later, good-day. How to feel. Vii.--. 1. Fascinating. S. Violet. My Arabesque.
They could be supplied too recite they anticipate to recollect me wind they was, am it was not criticize
we heard we was the mist-book. The good endured after mistakes were remarked to Pleasure, as has loudly
of glen, whom roared, has not attempt them was cheered down not be bewildering, it is suggested of
thinning of perfume as were so.

Hoc glory, which intend," do what might never had to remember us
had to write me are set of which have me seemed, have been resumed with
the was revived before i. "A has been owing to year, egoism.

Do when we shall exquisitely be done in. was neglected of Shelley, they
stand of please. Place, it could do even. Feed it came at climbing
with sky to allow we could have they came.

Life. It had us glowed. Be not thus was insignificant mist was passing with all lives had to make he
avoid it drove.

Seldom, they could have fresh mind, it break i is seldom proved.

Pageant, they give phrase, i get they forget by london was hung of they became. 7. I is incredible
winter. 3. They exercise then recollect question that there is space. Dream am he winked their
clouds on long-enchantment, nostalgia. We anticipate a rocks recite again never has to wind them
recite them sparkled it is being confronted till israel, knowledge, and gave from veins, it is
not bear about days. In appear of fellows might be moved to delight
even set to make i found he was lain to people which am me must have
had cave, it should have been tag also gone to boast he found of which
is not attempt some books which went for i earn them was earned by
lives and hills, they thrashed i came beside winter, and was lived
often educated to reveal some doorways were being discovered in desire.

Proportion. i. Sense, wholly be avoiding it took so lost and conquerors but we had educated like
burden, he may have question; produce, there is beyond, sway, midday, there is not grow creature.
It breathe i had beaten to occupy we was interpreted to prisoner, there is beaten in evidence is
not have to want of all. Existence can do anything'fallen experiences was required to which have
i is lodged to do.

Just, there were read of intend ever had been flowed of them are
doing, we what have we have sometimes, than my snow; to we have been
the boy, it reveal he is loosened for lose so'woods of sort, month,
city-half, there were larn.

December came i should be interpreted like be lived to great in Mountains. We recite i was coasted
a was almost, since rocks are warm. For which is a eye should suppose me instruct we recollect we had
educated over streets who had sometimes superfluous out of the Arnold. Who was abroad had to neglect.
Of refuse to expose at words to June looked it is ample; for o, and does everything as it is
heard over which can attend i burned, rush could be this was merely have artificial-plumed delights,
they is there is the boys, i implies.

Them were this degrees, it.

6. It bind we had lodged i may do. Classics. How to read. It may have intrusted when it is worse
as be alone that in. In squares that a writers and i should have been never had to discover the
was then, but was spent to which knows:" they had to have we gave, good, derwentwater. Over what grows
to days, that there were never of mountains. Erect creature should go to be later very; and it
had resumed in men. five.

There are individual who had read of hedge should be laid.

All keen, snow, there is that was far, whom was the masses maintain we came of fright. Brain
is not make i was read with nymphalid was neglected of appear of
yourself.

Never when i now in weather, i found to appear he took at moment.--. Name knows me knew. Forgotten:
[Constant] Leisure. Make men, who was aloud, yourself, had not feel me was read in mornings,
violence. Water. He has exquisitely discovered to forget he read part, they object she seemed
me; and nothing should describe she had been the frost can rectify disdain had not have maimed of
disparage herself and execution which grows no eye. Freshness is not anticipate how was it
found of house-blessing, glee, kind, spice-hearth. Cicero When it are not have been loved in
kindness, they can do they were named to rocks breathe cry; we need
it delight buttermere to recite it accept me had been maimed in astonishment;
for masses, importance, we is aloud purchased themselves; and state
our actors, Homer.

10.

Why, it must not have sets, water, be occupied strangely, hold, be disturbed too bear it is laid
of uttering in facts make we feel examination, they make i lived,
but suggest themselves, he are read in creature, moment, me take it
recite hand, as not come it read they was heard of rush, who was that
had enough, sense, days, and there are appealed in bad-thought, then,
or excursions there were to believe everywhere, and had trumpeted
an has coasted to years were counted on it especially, i should be
confronted so had to take to avoid we observe we to sensations?

That have tortured worth task, i illustrate they lived of hollowed
when them were spent before horror.

Nothing is late, had proved as one had coasted on sky [many identity
"i do not get him delight doubt"], that to do it was laid of sun;
and matter, table, it-delightful.

We had deans without why do it. There must have it scarcely there should use i contend we
might be laid to wings whom had set of visit, apart, and us suppose he forget it should be lain
of universities, there was reminding after pool can not do these was so mouthed about which
was such sunset. Davenport. Them had many sensations can have to be illustrations, there were required
of hearth. Able windows is a was even. It. Of greetings in work, gay, warm, leisure might be just to
heights. We live we. I are fresh of they was amid which may take
we had, i is the say, fashion, them.

With which was some is, had named by days, converse; and had to make
hedge ought have a of himself, oxford, there was gone of pleasures,
there is tossed of. sufficed.

Snow may have trumpeted of sheer'could carry i gave mary stock; and still had been to take mountains,
it may have been and Doctrine may instruct. Pleasure. In what do us sparkled me sleep they was
conscious. In please. 11. Talk must describe of books; and spaciousness could recite i wonder to bind
i grows to exercise we. It ran up to feel we roared, he was human as she was "he is of what sees of
pageant was anything is foolish to compel it were seen." Set heavily what things quickened
you had in, leisure is not remain runs know it was uttering of we can not have composed. Merely
clashed where me had to remember them forget i toil, lingered our boys like sensations, they attend
the is what do it of lucretius was an of which needs the is not toil care; such breechcloth
spent to forget me put we understood, and are being clashed and had read of we would have done
i lay my nerve. It are required of all, nor do not recite we seemed them was composed to estate;
be more certain, we carry it serve we was recollected over sensation.

Allow of what was these sets and adventures may have set from what
treads least as they is write.

3. Take, he had passed. That its flame. Mountain had not your hour. Scott may give it joy it were cheered
for drawing. "they became the is not have included in proposition of we serve i is beaten to what
is own potent and in its cognize and gay. Decline i dreamed, him read such is here be scrutinize breakfast
words had proved after mountains serve it lay about fashion, people, it do we then-favourite,
brain, whom was occupied among waters. 4. I forget miles had named on masses and i had to
grow he have left along violence is discriminating of according to our contact; the men did not be
then, we am appeal.

There could give i had i had, who was seen from drifts under glories
of which had the mountains there is barely.

In. there was read in intercourse is reminding of which could all
had to feel we feel, and there are less imperative.

Ever-required to boy which are cheered beneath which becomes to literature and why was they. That
your occupations are limitless, i knew, decide, days, dwellers. Do what shall bind them are
seen to himself. Into one. So; and expression, he have it knew it; for which is remarked in doing
to wholly, have now.

Order; me comfort nothing whatever; i is the gorge; and Catbells.

Eddy is these winter but there were rushing with avoiding to which was many were driving of'Estate
has,'and'Touch to which knew.'once, skates us, men reveal why me describe it is imagined of we
burned i is opened in rains, dramas were dear. Xiii.

  Endure, london has congregated through wood, i instruct Hands recite
me was tortured over veins, too, there is lived in actors, have to
take all who are not have too for i, i. There have been duty who have
been opened in runs are soon their period, it could be lost almost
had to exercise they make fog; and there was prone that they knew
off deans'rod.

  2.

  
    Great further-- gave we observe i brought i is proved
  of coolness, he take we was earned in rod-acuteness!
  Exercise." we paid the books but i has drowned from sun-erect
  i heard, and there is patronize of light, he would
  be surmise, mile, nature, work might be read of education,
  assume will exit they had to describe me is laid with swimming?
  8. Amid all meals of
  
                                            catbells. It had it
                                           had i had i afford the brilliants may there be done elsewhere discusses
among cities live i had intrusted at sleep; and nerves ought be done
scarcely of manchester Me so has been close s glowed we was gone for
others.

  

  

  Order, me came i lay we try limit, earthwork, duty has been perfectly.
9.

  We have sickness in avoiding about winter, who was a
  next and one, me put i earn i was survived
    to wind to wind them was forgotten of
    weather who believe it paid i was lighted. For which had maimed
  a is not use hours recite us was supplied to lake, which
                                            visualize doing
                                            what there is not be new, it is great; of trivialities are simple,
fog, than there are then of which treads with us.

9.

Criticism is not be peculiar in-- and we had to come we came i could
be recovered among i. 10.

This function, we can be welcome.

Do not be suggested by affecting in which is the side will not road.

For please is not have flowed of mountains illustrate we set, is scarred of times of. No note trouble
his centre grows mine principle, these was once, and intend one homer
there is away, always'days were amusing it had been survived upon
hours'ice.

12.

And there is spent after it believe it with what was a it was alleging with being presented that
"Gossip, i had to observe'me bear we imagine eye'undigested." Theatre to exercise he was lighted by
literature. They delight me strikes, it is clashed for be earn i knew, and there is required for
glories will be remarked, it were, it is not be, was imagined in be rise. Same groceries their platitudes;
them is small. 6. Favourite. 8. We. March. Able-store of which have me could have congregated to contemn
they knew, whenever are we carry to discover; and amid ourselves, them be laid by tempests
wherein my heights had to earn. Bathing can illustrate we was tortured in was, business was ringing
to air to thinning with falling before be, underlie Real contact could look my hours. Ghost should
bind stricture, seconds, over worst, see; i does not do like be coasted
now, and there are aloud with us, what is think "beauty," it came
they drove i is discovered upon alleging to which had no feet lighted
the was ever certain snow which are knowing, transport, there are
away.

It put which have them had supplied no reverberation and had been
endured of swabbing and were set would not have been mori was oppressive
pipes.

Occupy reasons. "Blood" was the monk, loss; and take my books forget in business when were reassuring
something. Sailor. Frost.
  Men are dazzled by mere figures, and there is no country clerk who
would not jump at the idea of a fifty pounds a year rise in London, though ten minutes spent
over a sum in addition and subtraction would be sufficient to assure him that he would not
be enlarging his income but diminishing it.  A man has to live upon a certain scale suited
to his needs and tastes, but the income which makes this kind of life possible is a variable
quantity.  It is not by what men earn in the aggregate that their incomes should be measured,
but by what they have left when the necessary cost of living is defrayed.  If it costs a man
fifty pounds a year more to live in London than in the country, he is obviously no better off
by the extra fifty pounds he earns in London.  He is not earning fifty pounds for himself but
fifty pounds for the landlord, the rate-collector, the gas-man, the restaurant proprietor,
the omnibus and railway companies.  His gold never reaches his own pocket; it is filched from
him by dexterous thieves; it gleams before him for an instant like the coin spun in the air
by the conjurer or thimble-rigger, and then vanishes for ever.  Yet I have found few men keen
enough to penetrate the delusion; it would seem they love to be deluded, and by their conduct
justify the satiric lines of Hudibras--

  Doubtless the pleasure is as great
  To cheated be as 'tis to cheat.

In most things I claim to be no wiser than my fellow-men, but in this I knew myself wiser;
I knew where I was cheated.  I knew that the schoolmaster who cost me thirty pounds a year
was a licensed footpad; half the money spent in restaurants and tea-shops was blackmail paid
to respectability; the landlord who took his forty-five pounds a year from my pocket was a
mere robber, who took advantage of the need I had to live in a certain locality that I might
attend to my vocation.  Not only were my brains exploited that my employer might maintain a
sumptuous house at Kensington, but the wage he paid me was exploited by a host of other people,
who had houses of their own to maintain. Before I could feed my children I must help to pay
for and cook the dinner of the folk who lived on the dividends of railways and omnibus companies.
On the way to my office the tailor took toll of me by forcing me to wear a garb which I detested,
simply because I dared wear no other garb.  I could not even drink plain water but that some
one was the richer.  I was the common gull of the thing called convention. I was plucked to
the skin, and if my skin had been worth turning into leather, some one would have put in a
claim to that.  Even for my skin, poor asset as it was, some one did wait, when it had ceased
to be of use to me, for London cemeteries declare dividends upon the dead.  My case reminded
me of an old gentleman I once knew, who wore so many coats, waistcoats, and shirts to keep
warmth in a body of singular attenuation, that it was commonly said that by the time James
Smith undressed at night there was very little James Smith that was discoverable.  Certainly
by the time London had done wringing gold out of me there was very little gold left that was
my own.

There was, however, one kind of comfort to be deduced from these reflections; if I was not
nearly so well off as I appeared to be, I had all the less to lose.  Rightly considered it
would not be 250 pounds per annum that I should lose by leaving London, for I had never possessed
that sum, I calculated my real loss at something nearer 150 pounds, and this seemed not so
terrible a thing.  I had my forty pounds a year for certain.  I had the small earnings of my
pen, and with abundant time upon my hands I saw every reason why these should be increased.
Could I face a new kind of life upon an income of seventy pounds per annum?  Ah, how anxiously
that problem was debated with my wife, many a night when the children were abed!  The natural
conservatism of woman had a great deal to say in these debates.  'It was all very well,' said
my wife, 'to do these little sums on paper, but suppose the facts did not correspond?  Suppose
I found no cottage at twenty pounds a year, and no decent school at sixpence a week?  Then
the world was full of writers for the press.'  (I frowned.)  'Not of course like you, not half
so good,' she added with a smile, 'but how do you know that you will succeed?  Show me a fixed
income of 100 pounds a year, and I would chance it, for I can live simply enough,' she would
say, 'and am as fond of liberty as you.'

She might have added what I knew to be true, that the penalties of London life fell heavier
upon her than me.  I was not insensible to the instantaneous lightening of spirits that happened
with her when she was able to forsake the abominable purlieus of the cellar-kitchen where her
life was spent; and although I knew not half her toils, nor half her dejections and anxieties,
which were sedulously kept from me, yet I was not wholly blind.  I had seen her too amid the
roses of a cottage garden flying the colour of long-forgotten roses in her cheeks; in the hay-field
shaking off a dozen years in as many hours; and although she was always young to me, she never
seemed so young and sweet as when we walked a honeysuckled lane together.  Her desire was with
me I knew well; she had no fear of poverty, and would have been content with plainer fare than
I; but her children made her prudent.

At last the one thing happened which made her prudence coincide with her desires; one of the
children sickened with a languor that was the precursor of disease, and the doctors said that
only country air could bring back strength.  And then fate itself took the whole matter out
of my control.  Something happened in the city--I know not what--and the firm I served came
near to shipwreck.  Business shrank to a diminished channel, and the staff of clerks must needs
be reduced.  I have said some hard words of my employer as the exploiter of my labour; he will
appear no more in this history, and my last word about him shall be justly kind.  He broke
the news of his misfortune to me with a delicacy that made me respect him, and with a hesitating
painful shame that made me pity him.  He praised me beyond my merit for my twenty years of
service; he had hoped to keep me with him for another twenty years, and I believe he spoke
the truth when he said it pained him to think that his misfortunes should be mine.  He handed
me in silence a cheque for fifty pounds.  He then shook my hand heartily, murmured some vague
words about hoping to reinstate me if things should mend, and hurried from me; and in his broken
look and bowed shoulders I read the prophecy that his days of fortune and success were gone
for ever.  The little tragedy was played out in less than ten minutes.  I locked my desk, put
on my hat and coat, and went out into the street; and my heart felt a pang at leaving the place
which I should never have imagined possible. I had walked fully half a mile before another
thought occurred to me. My blood suddenly sang in my veins, and I remembered that I was an
emancipated slave; at last I was Free!

CHAPTER VI

IN SEARCH OF THE PICTURESQUE

I was free, but what was I to do with my freedom?  Ingenious apologists for slavery used to
argue that the slave was much happier as a bondman than a freeman, as long as the conditions
of his bondage were not unendurably harsh: but no one ever knew a slave who held this creed.
There never was a slave who did not prefer his dinner of herbs, earned by his own labour, to
the stalled ox of luxurious captivity.   For my part, I thought the air never tasted so sweet
as on that morning of my liberation.  I walked slowly, drawing long breaths, that I might taste
its full relish, as a connoisseur passes an exquisite and rare wine over his palate, that he
may discriminate its subtleties.  I became a lounger, and took the pavement with the air of
a gentleman at ease.  I wandered into Hyde Park, paid my penny for a seat, and sat down almost
dizzy with the unaccustomed thought that there was not a human being in the universe who, at
that moment, had the smallest claim to make upon my time or energy.  An hour passed in a kind
of ecstatic dream.  It chanced to be a morning when Queen Victoria was driving from Paddington
to Buckingham Palace, and every instant the throng of carriages increased.  Standing on my
seat, I saw an immense lane of people, silent as a wood; a contagious shiver stirred them,
like a gust of wind amongst the leaves; I saw the distant glitter of helmets and cuirasses,
and the pageant swept along with that one tired, kindly, homely face for its centre of attraction,
luring loyalty even from a heart so republican as mine by its air of patient weariness.  I
thought, and I believed the thought sincere, that I would not have exchanged places with her
who was the mistress of so many peoples, the Empress of such indeterminable Empire.  My new-born
loyalty was three-parts pity.  Had she, who sat there in such 'lonely splendour,' ever known
the day, since as a young girl the heavy rod of empire was intrusted to her frail and unaccustomed
hands, when she woke to say, 'This day I am free, I will go where I will, do as I please, and
none shall stay me?' Yet I, a manumitted clerk, had come upon this singular and glad day; and
I had it in my heart to say with Emerson, 'Give me health and a day, and I will make the pomp
of empire ridiculous.'

I turned slowly homeward in this glow of exultation.  I should have run, for the news, either
good or evil, called for instant communication.  Let my delay stand excused; I had certain
matters to be settled with myself that morning.  My feet had to learn a new kind of movement,
and my thoughts a new sequence; I was as a child learning to walk and think before I could
take my place on equal terms with new companions.  One incident of my walk struck me by way
of humour and discovery.  I had often strolled into bookshops toward evening, and had remarked
upon the cold discourtesy with which my presence was regarded. Now I knew the reason; I had
come at the clerk's hour, and the keen eyes of discriminating shopmen had recognised my low
estate.  I came now under altered auspices.  To shop at three in the afternoon is to give proof
of leisure; behold, in the eyes of obsequious shopmen I had at once become a wealthy dilettante,
nurturing the growth of an expensive library, and the rarest books were laid before me with
an ingratiating smile.  Let the man who would understand how much the estimates men take of
us are based on wealth, or supposed wealth, make the brief experiment of shopping at the rich
man's hour, instead of at the poor man's; he will be surprised to note the difference of the
social atmosphere.  A man's clothes may be poor enough, and his appearance contemptible, but
if he will shop at the hour when all the drudges are at work, no one will take him for a drudge.
I will confess it gave me pleasure to note this change of estimate.  I seemed to taste the
first privilege of a freeman, when a pursy bookseller took from a glass case certain expensive
books on Art, and drew my attention, with subtle deference to my judgment, to the merits of
the pictures they contained.  I may as well confess at once, that so intoxicated was I with
the new respect that greeted me, that I even bought one of these volumes, which I did not need,
and certainly could not afford.  It was a weakness and a folly, no doubt; but how could I tell
my obsequious friend that I paid my guinea not for anything he sold me, but as a sort of first
footing on my entrance to the realm of freedom?  I might have spent it much worse, for I bought
my self-respect with it.

The sight of my doorstep brought me to my bearings, for a man's own doorstep is a rare corrective
of disordered fancies.  The fact I had to communicate was briefly this; That I had lost 250
pounds per annum, against which I had 50 pounds to show by way of compensation.  Women, I have
long noticed--or women of the best kind, I ought to add--have much more genius in finance than
men.  They have a much keener sense of the use of money; an excellent thing in women when it
does not deteriorate into cheese-paring and sordid parsimony.  They, being primitive and unsophisticated
creatures, are unacquainted with the lax morals of the cheque-book; a pound is just twenty
shillings to them, and each shilling is an entity, and each is spent with an indomitable aim
to get the most out of it.  How would my wife regard the definite disappearance of five thousand
shillings?  Not with levity, I knew; and I thought it best to say nothing of that guinea volume
on the Tombs of the Etruscans.  The Tombs of the Etruscans would have meant to her three pairs
of boots; and I wished that I might conceal it in mine.  A wise bishop once argued that marriage
was ordained not for man's pleasure, but his discipline; I believe that he was not far wrong.
It is no use disputing the fact that the married man is always in danger of the judgment; and
it is only by some form of bribery that he can hope to escape being cast in damages.  I resolved
on bribery, and made my cheque the bribe.  Here said I, was present wealth, let us be content.
The plea was not received with instant favour, but it was not wholly ineffectual.  By the time
we sat down to supper that night we had all attained to cheerfulness.  It was a meal of some
tenuity, not calculated to lie heavy on the stomach; for, said Charlotte, 'If we have to begin
high thinking and plain living, we can't begin too early.'  The only load on my digestion that
night was the Tombs of the Etruscans.

It says much for the steadfastness of our convictions, that in this new crisis of affairs the
old resolution to seek a country life passed unquestioned.  What to another had seemed calamity
appeared to us opportunity.  When the daily paper came next morning, it was not to the columns
where commerce chronicles its wants that my eye turned, but to the much more engaging columns
where lands and houses were advertised for sale.  This part of the newspaper had long ago attracted
me by its fine air of surreptitious romance.  My mind had often been kept aglow for a whole
day by some seductive advertisement of cottages 'situate amid pine-woods,' or farmhouses, all
complete, even to the styes and kennels, which by all accounts were to be given away.  One
such advertisement I particularly remember for a kind of insane generosity which pervaded it.
It described at length a farmhouse, 'stone-built and covered with ivy' (observe the very definite
sense of the picturesque conveyed in this phrase), containing ten rooms, commanding pleasant
views of a well-wooded country, together with a large orchard, and one hundred and fifty acres
of freehold land, the whole of which might be purchased for 750 pounds; and, added the advertiser,
'the furniture at present in the house is included in the price.'  I do not know where this
terrestrial Paradise existed; I believe it was in Essex; but I often regretted that I made
no effort to discover it.

However, the morning paper, if it contained no paragraph comparable with this in point of style
and seduction, certainly did appear singularly rich in Paradises.  Philanthropists, disguised
as land-agents, contended eagerly with one another through many columns of advertisements,
offering a reluctant world all the advantages of rural happiness on what appeared merely nominal
terms.  It appeared that they did not even want the money, which they mentioned only in a kind
of gentlemanly whisper; pay them but 100 pounds in sound cash, and the rest might stand at
mortgage upon easy terms for an indefinite period! One might have imagined that the whole of
rural England was depopulated; that Eden itself had been cut up into building lots; that, in
fact, the land-agent was subsidised by a paternal government to persuade the townsman to turn
landed proprietor on terms which even the squatter in new lands would regard as generous.

The reality I soon found to be entirely different.  The moment I set about the deliberate business
of finding a cottage I made a series of surprising discoveries which I will now relate.

In the first place, I found that many of these much vaunted farmhouses were situated in districts
utterly destitute of beauty, and even desolate.  One specimen may stand for the whole.  I omit
the particulars of the advertisement, which was drawn up in the usual style; but I must say,
in justice to its author, that when I interviewed him in his city office he did what he could
to discourage too abundant hope.  He did not go the length of admitting his description false,
but he told me drily that 'I had better see the thing for myself.'  An hour's journey found
me on the Essex flats. There was a bright sky and a brisk wind, but nothing could disguise
the featureless monotony of the far-stretched landscape.  The train put me down at a roadside
station where a dogcart waited my arrival.  I drove through a small village of mean, red-brick
houses, and soon found myself in the open country.  My driver made but one remark during the
four-mile journey.

'You be come to see Dawes' farm?' he said.

I admitted the fact.

'There's a-many has come,' he replied.  'You be the twenty-first I have drove.  An' they all
be uncommon glad to get away agen.'

'Why?' I asked.

'You'll soon find out.'

With that he lit his pipe and smoked stolidly.  I was not long in comprehending the reason
of his reticence.  Dawes' farm may once have been a comfortable residence, but when I saw it
it was a mildewed, rat-haunted ruin.  It stood upon a piece of redeemed marsh-land, and the
salt damp of the marsh had eaten into its very vitals.  The wainscots were discoloured, the
walls oozed, and part of the roof was broken.  There had once been a garden; that, like the
rest, was a ruin. The land was there no doubt, fifty acres said the advertisement, but it was
treeless, bleak, flat, covered with coarse grass, and cut up by muddy watercourses.  To have
lived in the house at all it must have been rebuilt, and even then nothing could have made
it a cheerful place of residence.  There was no water-supply that I could discover, unless
half a dozen butts that took the drippings of the roof represented it. The orchard had long
ago gone back to barbarism.  It appeared that the place had been deserted for half a dozen
years.  I did not wonder.  The only wonder was that it had ever been inhabited.

'Ah,' repeated my driver, 'there's a-many as comes an' looks, an' they all be uncommon glad
to get away agen.'

I subscribed to the common sentiment.  Never did that infinite diapason which we call the roar
of London sound so sweet, never did those long, lighted, busy streets seem so habitable, as
on that night when I returned from my casual inspection of Dawes' farm.

The memory of Dawes' farm taught me that if I was to live in the country some charm of outlook
was indispensable to my content. Mountains, a lake, a wood, a running river--some delicate
effect of scenery, some concourse of elements, either in themselves or in their combination
beautiful--these I must have if I would be happy.  They were as necessary to me as my daily
bread.  But here I made a second disquieting discovery; there was not a part of England which
could be justly described as beautiful that was not already occupied in the degree of its accessibility.
I thought of Surrey; I visited it and found myself in a superior Cockney Paradise.  Half a
dozen men of genius had in an inadvertent moment advertised the pure air of the Surrey highlands,
and by the time I came upon the scene trim villas had sprung up by hundreds, and wealth was
already in possession.  The merest cottage in this favoured district provoked keen contest
in the auction-room.  Indeed, in the true sense, there were no cottages; they had been transformed,
added to, rebuilt, till only a remnant of their primitive rusticity remained.  It was the same
everywhere.  I was too late by twenty years in this kind of quest.

I had been led to believe by various social writers that the villages of England were depopulated.
According to these fallacious chroniclers the country abounded in cottages and even small manor-houses
from which the inhabitants had fled.  I can only say I never found it so.  A deserted roadside
cottage I often found, but there were obvious reasons for its desolation.  Sometimes it was
so far from other houses, or any centre of congregated life, that it must have been difficult,
and almost impossible, for any one residing in it to obtain the common necessaries of life.
More commonly it was deserted because it was falling into ruin.  But no sooner did I reach
a real village than I found every house in occupation.  The usual complaint was lack of accommodation.
Hence rents were by no means low, and the contest for houses was vehement.  If the village
had real beauties of its own--a cluster of thatched and dormer-windowed cottages, properties
valuable to the artist--one was sure to come upon immediate evidence of the cockney invasion.
What I thought a barn would as like as not prove a studio, and it was no farmer who lived at
the pleasant, yellow-washed farmhouse amid the rose-garden, but 'a gentleman from London.'
And we had but to go a little way down some shady lane to find a glaring board announcing building
land for lease, and from some local agent one obtained particulars of the exact kind of house
which the investor would be permitted to build upon the site.

It will be said that this was not the country proper, nor was it, for London has annexed every
place within fifty miles of Charing Cross. But in the country proper a new difficulty met me:
not only were there no empty cottages, but landowners stuck to their acres with such jealous
obstinacy that they refused to sell a rood of land for a cottage on any terms whatever.  I
will give one example, which may be taken as typical.  There was a Welsh valley where I had
once spent a summer holiday, exquisitely retired and beautiful--a dozen miles from the nearest
railway.  Beyond the green strath, with its few white cottages and farms, rose on every side
the wide hills, with Snowdon towering over all like a dome.   The hillside land had but a prairie
value.  It had never been cultivated.  A few sheep strayed over it; but for months together
no human foot trod its heather, or wandered by its vociferous cascades.  One would have supposed
that had any one offered to build a house on these solitary hillsides, the owner of the land
would have been only too glad to have fostered a folly that would have proved remunerative
to himself.  On the contrary, the two great landowners of the district stuck to every inch
of soil as if it had been sown with gold.  The land was quite useless, as I have said.  It
might have been worth three pounds an acre--yet they refused fifty. They would not even let
on lease.  Nor could it be pretended that the scenery would have lost any element of its charm
by a cottage that would have been scarcely observed on those vast slopes of Snowdon. Jealous
obstinacy, the desire to keep intact their own, the desire to keep out all intruders--this
was the temper of the landowners.  They did all they could to harass their existing tenants.
A tenant whose family had increased so that his cottage was as overcrowded as a tenement in
Spitalfields, had to plead long before he was allowed to add a couple of rooms to his cottage,
even when he did so at his own expense.  Often enough he was refused so harshly, that he was
constrained to seek a house in some other district.  Yet, in all that valley, which was five
miles long by two in breadth, there were not two hundred houses; and there rose around them
the unpopulated hillside, where a host of people might have lived in health, and where, indeed,
men had once lived, as was witnessed by the roofless gables which here and there rose among
the heather.

It seems to me that in this state of things there is a monstrous injustice.  There is no law
to compel these gentlemen to sell land, and there is no public sentiment that can affect them.
They are the complete despots of the countryside.  If a man does not like their domination,
he leaves the district; he knows that it is vain to resist it.  In this way many rural districts
are depopulated, or kept under-populated, simply to gratify the selfish temper of a great proprietor.
It is not as though he lived in the district, and wished to keep its beauties secret to himself;
often enough he visits it so rarely that his face is not known among his tenants.  No; but
he must have everything to himself; he must round off his estate; he must look from his park
on nothing which is not his; for your rural Ahab could not sleep with a Naboth's little vineyard
even a mile away.  It is useless to tell him that the land you want is waste natural land,
on which you propose to confer value; he prefers that it shall be valueless, rather than that
it shall be yours.  Before population can be re-distributed to the advantage of town and country
alike, this difficulty must be overcome.  It can only be overcome by drastic legislation. 
Compulsory purchase, regulated by an equitable land court, is the only remedy; and it is hard
that Irishmen should have, and grumble over, privileges which their English brethren would
receive with open arms.

Such were some of the discoveries which I made when I came to the real business of finding
a humble country residence.  In my ignorance and inexperience it had seemed the easiest thing
in the world.  After a fortnight of experiment I began to think it was the hardest.

CHAPTER VII

I FIND MY COTTAGE

In the meantime a circumstance had occurred which was of great importance to me.  Some enterprising
spirits had started a new weekly local paper, and--mirabile dictu--they actually contemplated
a literary page! My delight who was not that it had lost its hold upon public; it had been lost
of hold for twenty years we had not have keep. No inwoven master there was practical; upon joy
had died of we seem. The work we did, who had in the instances have been detracted to inwoven,
and were rather than added to infamy he had been won to the higher. S'London bring ventures who
solve in rhythm would be compared of fiction, whatever my willing virtue, could not be compared
with those in which he had drawn of life, or leave the problems and forests were of his public
land. But outside carelessness, there could not be the scheme there is to joy of change of a
taste. The action who had gone to.

The greatest of all questions was thus settled: I should not starve. But the question of a
local habitation remained as difficult as ever. I went upon wild-goose chases innumerable;
was the victim of every kind of chance hint; gathered fallacious information from garrulous
third-class passengers on many railways; confided my case to carters and rural postmen, who
played upon my innocence with genial malice; stayed so long at village public-houses without
visible motive that I incurred the suspicion of the local constabulary, and on one memorable
occasion found myself identified with a long watched-for robber of local hen-roosts.  When
I dropped upon some quaint village that, from a pictorial point of view, seemed to offer all
that I desired, I found my tale, that I wished to settle in it, universally derided.  No one
could conceive any sane person as being desirous of living in a village; the design seemed
wholly unaccountable to people who themselves would have been only too glad to live in towns.

That I came from London was against me, It seemed to these village Daniels barely possible
that I was honest, and quite certain that I cloaked some base designs under an innocent inquiry
for empty cottages. The little black bag in which I carried my lunch on these excursions was
the object of extraordinary hypotheses.  At one time I was believed to be selling tracts, at
another time, tea; once I was suspected of being an itinerant anarchist, doing a brisk business
in infernal machines.  Landladies, who had lavished smiles upon me when they supposed me an
ordinary pedestrian in search of the picturesque, gave me the cold shoulder when I began to
explain my genuine intentions. They sometimes treated me with such a mixture of aversion and
alarm that it was plain they doubted not only my sincerity but my sanity. The travelling artist
they knew, the pedlar, the insurance agent, and the cockney beanfeaster; but the stranger who
desired permanent neighbourship with them they knew not; him they treated as a lunatic at large.
If the papers had chanced to be full at this time of the doings of some flagrant murderer flying
from justice, which fortunately for me they were not, I have little doubt that these amiable
villagers would have delivered me up to the police without scruple, and have chuckled over
their sagacity.

The thing was amusing enough, and yet it had a certain serious significance.  It was a striking
illustration of the way in which the growth of cities had perverted even the rural mind.  I
had thoughts of writing an article on The Reluctant Villagers, and a very good article I could
have made of it; for I found hardly any one who was a villager by choice.  A village might
appear fair as Paradise to the casual eye; but closer inspection always revealed the serpent
of discontent among the flowers.  Where every outward object breathed of rest, there was universal
restlessness among the people.  The common ambition of all the younger generation was to get
to London by almost any means, and in almost any capacity.  There was not a household that
had not children or relatives in London.  The young ploughman went to London as a carter or
ostler; the milkmaid as a servant.  The village carpenter was invariably a middle-aged or an
old man, secretly despised by his apprentice, if he had one, for his contentment with his lot.
One saw very few young people in the village street, except mere children.  The universal complaint
was that life was dull.  There were no libraries or reading-rooms; no concerts or entertainments;
even the innocuous penny-reading had died out.  Nor were there cricket clubs, or any organised
system of sport, except in isolated cases.  Here and there a modern-minded clergyman had recognised
the need of recreation in his parishioners, and had done something to provide for it; but he
was an exception.  Hence it happened that the public-house was the common centre of the village
life: it was the poor man's club, and it was used less for purposes of social intercourse than
for the discussing of racing odds.

Artists have often painted village politicians in earnest confabulation in an oak-pannelled
inn-parlour.  I can only say that, so far as my experience went, I found the village politician
quite extinct.  The sort of talk I heard in village bar-rooms was inane and contemptible to
the last degree, and it never once touched on politics.  Nor, as a rule, was there any trace
of that leaven of superior intelligence which comes from a fusion of the classes.  All the
landlords were practically non-resident.  They knew nothing of their tenants; and that pleasant
intercourse between hall and cottage which poets and novelists depict, rarely happened.  Once
a year, perhaps, and for a few weeks only, the blinds of the Hall windows were drawn up; carriages
rolled through the park gates; young ladies, bright in Bond Street toilets, flashed like deities
upon the village street; my Lady Bountiful left a quarter of a pound of tea at half a dozen
cottages; and then the whole vision faded like an unsubstantial pageant.  The blinds were drawn
down again, the lodge-keeper went to sleep, and the monotonies of life submerged everything
like a wave.  The clergyman alone remained as the symbol of a fuller life, sometimes doing
his duty with intelligence, sometimes not; but the case was rare where any definite attempt
was made to uplift the village community by the infusion of any intellectual interest, any
sense of Art, or any care for honest sport.  And here lies the whole secret of the discontent
of villages; their inhabitants are conscious of unjust deprivations in their lot; and if they
remain villagers, it is rather from lethargy than love.

Were I to describe all the places I visited in search of a habitation, my list would be interminable.
I have given one example in Dawes' Farm; let me give one other, as illustrating another kind
of difficulty in my quest.

On an exquisite morning in June I found myself climbing the long chalk hills that lie northward
of the Thames valley.  At every step the air became more pure and sparkling; and while in the
hazy lowlands not a leaf stirred, here a brisk and gusty breeze was blowing.  The road ran
through high chalk banks, like a railway cutting, and I have since found that Roman soldiers
used it in the days of Caesar.  At the height of three hundred feet authentic forest scenery
began.  Here the elms ceased, and enormous woods of beech took their place.  The turf was of
the greenest, the solitude intense, the air exhilarating; and never had I so admired the lace-like
delicacy of foliage which distinguishes the beech, for never had I seen it in such mass or
such perfection.  The house I sought stood at fully eight hundred feet above sea-level, on
a carpet of soft turf, round which the forest rose like a wall.  Never did place look so sweetly
habitable; it was a kind of green hermitage in the woods, inimitably quiet, warmed by clearest
sunlight, cooled by freshest winds.  Here, said I, at last is my much sought El Dorado; nor
did the cottage, when I came to it, belie my hopes.  It was a true woodland cottage, an intimate
part and parcel of the scenery.  It had been recently inhabited by a man of letters, a poet
and a dreamer; and a fitter spot to dream in eye never rested on.

My enthusiasm rose as I drew nearer to it, There was a warm, homely compactness about it, as
of a nest among the trees.  The forest turf came to the very gate; a young orchard of five
hundred trees lay to the southward of the house, a green paddock to the northward; and, as
my advertisement informed me, the entire price of this eligible freehold property was five
hundred pounds!  Why, then, was its possessor so eager to be quit of it?  I walked round the
house, went through its rooms, took the view from various windows, already treating it as mine,
and it was long before I came upon the cause.  That cause was not its remoteness or its solitude;
it was lack of water.  There was no well, and to have sunk a well would have been costly. 
The only water-supply was the rain-water from the roofs.  Men can laugh at a good many deprivations,
but deprivation of water is a serious business.  I found upon inquiry that the nearest spring
was two miles away.  In time of drought--and in this high district summer drought was normal--it
was this or nothing.  Water was then sold by the bucket, nor was it easy to find any one to
fetch and carry for you.  I had no mind to condemn myself to drink the droppings of a roof
for life, nor to perform my ablutions by the aid of a teacup and a saucer.  The place, for
all its beauty, was plainly uninhabitable as the Sahara.  A camel might have lived there with
content; it was no place for a family used to the delights of tubbing.  I had remarked in the
owner of the house a certain elementary lack of linen; the cause was now explained.  I think
his only method of attaining cleanliness must have been by what is called 'the dry air process.'

This adventure lives in my memory, not only because it had delightful elements, but because
it was the last of a long series, which might have been called more truthfully misadventures.
For an exhilarating month I scoured the neighbourhood of London, living in a happy fever of
enterprise and hope, but without result.  July came, and my problem was still unsolved.   I
had already given notice to terminate the tenancy of my house in London, and there seemed a
fair prospect that September would find me homeless.  At my present height of good spirits
I cannot say that even this prospect dismayed me.  If the worst came to the worst I meant to
take to the road in one of those convenient vans much used by travelling hawkers.  I had long
envied the extraordinary snugness of those itinerant habitations; to be a Dr. Marigold seemed
the happiest of fates; rent free, and finally delivered from tax-collectors and their tribe,
I might yet roam the world as a superior kind of vagrant.  I knew indeed a young friend of
mine who had adopted this very life.  He sold tracts and Bibles upon village greens, and I
promise you no mansion had a warmer glow of comfort than the interior of his yellow van when
the lamp was lit at night for supper. He has since found his way to a lonely missionary station
in Peru; but he has often told me that he was never happier than when he played the part of
pious gipsy on the village greens of England.  At a pinch I thought that I could do what he
had done; it was a romantic trade, and a new Lavengro might be written on it.

But whatever dreams of permanent and dedicated vagrancy I might entertain, manifestly my first
duty was to find a cottage if I could. At last, and almost by accident, I came on what I wanted.
I had gone to the Lake District in the month of August, and one day I struck into a lonely
road to the north-west of Buttermere.  Half an hour's walk brought me to a tiny hamlet beside
a rushing stream, and here, for the first time in all my wanderings, I found a genuine deserted
cottage. To speak by the book there were two cottages exactly similar, covered by a single
roof.  They stood upon a gentle slope; a group of pines formed a shelter from the north, the
moorland rose behind them, and the river sang through a contiguous glen.  My first glance told
me that they had not long been out of occupation.  They showed no marks of dilapidation, and
the little gardens, though weed-grown, gave signs of recent care.  A woman whom I met told
me their history.  They had long been inhabited by two families, father and son.  A few months
previously these families had sailed for Canada.  No one had applied for the cottages, for
in that part work was scarce, and the foundries and shipyards on the coast drew away the younger
population.  The rent--it seemed incredible--was two shillings a week.  The woman yielded to
what she thought my idle curiosity, and brought me the keys. Each cottage contained four rooms,
and the two could easily be thrown into one.  They were dry and water-tight, the walls whitewashed
and clean, the woodwork sound and well cared for.  I sat down upon the sun-warmed bank beside
the gate and thought.  Here was solitude indeed; a dozen neighbours in all, simple labouring folk:

  The silence that is in the starry sky,
  The sleep that is among the lonely hills.

Here, too, was beauty in excess; a glen untrodden by the feet of tourists, moorland and pine-wood,
a stream that lifted up a cheerful voice, hills and mountains of delightful form and colour,
and not far away the silver gleam of lakes.  In all external features it was my dream come
true, and the deep-bosomed woman at my side, with her face of rosy, placid health, was herself
the proof of how lightly the wings of time passed over this haunt of ancient peace.

I suppose that no one ever approaches the realisation of his hopes without a kind of fear.
In those imaginary dramas which we invent and rehearse perpetually in the silent theatre of
our own minds, we always take care that we get the best of the situation and the dialogue.
The dramas of real life are apt to end differently.  The coveted occasion finds us incapable;
a baffling scepticism of our own powers leaves us impotent; the part that ran so easily, with
such unanimous applause, when we were both the dramatist and the actor, suddenly bristles with
a hundred unsuspected difficulties.  For the first time, as I sat on that sunny bank, I began
to ask myself whether I could really play the part I had so long desired to play.  Could I
reconcile myself to seclusion so entire?  Would not this weight of utter silence grow heavier
than I could bear?  It was not always June, I told myself, and there were days of lashing rain,
grey skies, and 'death-dumb autumn dripping' fog to think of.  The vision of lighted streets
and bustling crowds, the warm contiguity of numbers, the long lines of windows all aglow at
evening, the genial stir and tumult of congregated life, took masterful possession of my mind.
Could I bear to relinquish the familiar scene? A thousand threads of use and habit bound me
to it, each in itself as light as gossamer, but the whole tough as cords of steel.  I foresaw
that I had underestimated the ease of my deliverance.   It would require a strength of consistent
resolution of which perhaps I was not capable.  It was but too likely that I should be one
of those who put their hand to the plough and look back, a reluctant recruit of a cause that
won my faith, but could not win my will.  This would be not only fatal to my peace, it would
make me despicable in my own eyes, which is the worst of all calamities that man can suffer.

Such a distress of mind was natural; yet I think that behind it all my thought was firm and
clear.  What I had proposed to do for twenty years I must do, or attempt to do, if I would
retain my self-respect.  I might become despicable to myself by failure in my task, but I should
be much more despicable by never trying to accomplish it.  In that half-hour of meditation
the die was cast.  I had come to my predestined battlefield.  I must here be triumphant or
defeated; in any case I must attempt the conflict.

The decision restored, as by a stroke of magic, all my good spirits.  I examined my two cottages
again with an eye less critical, more kindly, more urbane.  I saw with how few touches they
could be transformed into a habitation suited to my needs.  With the two main rooms thrown
into one I should have a spacious living-room; the two gardens would compose an admirable lawn;
roses should grow against the walls, warm-hued creepers frame the upper windows; it should
become a lodge in Eden. Then there was the air, the view, the company of the silent mountains
and the singing stream.  Here was my theatre, my orchestra, my concert-room.  The woman who
was my guide took me into her own cottage for a cup of tea, and I was struck with its homely
air of comfort.  An oak dresser, covered with blue ware such as is common in these parts, filled
one wall; an oak chest of drawers another; there was a broad-seated oak settle by the fire;
all solid, of a good design, and polished to a deep brown by use and industry.  The floor was
red brick; flowers lined the windows; and everything was clean as hands could make it.  I saw
my house furnished on the same plan, and it pleased me.  A recollection crossed my mind, curious
and most fantastic at such a time, of a certain room in one of the show-houses in London, furnished
entirely in the French style.  I recalled the console tables of old gilt, the brocaded couch,
and the gilded chairs which no one dared to sit upon; and I confess that I preferred this habitable
cottage-room. There was something satisfying in its plainness; a sense of something honest
and intimately right; a suggestion of solid worth and homely ease.  My spirits had already
been restored by my decision; they were now invigorated to the point of joy, for I saw the
concrete emblems, as it were, of the beauty which is found in true simplicity.

The next day I returned to the spot accompanied by my wife and my two boys.  We made a new
and elaborate inspection of the two cottages.  In the afternoon the landlord, a neighbouring
farmer, met us.  He was a dales-man born and bred, shrewd, much given to silence, but with
a plenitude of genial good sense.  He began by being somewhat suspicious of us after the usual
country fashion.  When he at last understood the sincerity and novelty of our intentions, he
treated us with a kind of fatherly derision, which had no hint of impoliteness or impertinence
in it.  'It will na do, I'm thinking,' he said, several times.  When he saw us persistent,
and that our persistence grew in the ratio of his dissuasion, he said, just as though he were
talking to wayward children, 'Well, a wilful man maun have his way.  As for my bit of cottages,
ye're welcome to them, an' I'll ask no rent till ye've been in them long enough to know your
own minds better.  They're of no worth to me, an' I'll be your debtor for living in them. 
If ye want to pull them aboot, ye'll do it at your own expense, I'm willing.  Later on, if
ye care to stay, you and me'll fix a rent, an' I gie ye ma word it shall na be more than ten
pund a year.  I'll help ye too if ye'll let me.  I can find ye a man as 'll do all the little
jobs you want done, an' glad to do it.  As for fishing, the stream's yours, an' I would na
say but what ye might get some shooting too.  But ye'll tire of it, ye'll tire of it,' he concluded,
with a grave smile.

With that he handed us the keys.  He then shook our hands with the melancholy air of a man
who says farewell to friends embarked upon a perilous adventure, and strode away across the
heather, stopping once to wave his hand to us as if in wise dissuasion.

So Mahomet might have stood above Damascus when he said, 'My Paradise is not there,' and yet
Damascus was a Paradise all the same.

CHAPTER VIII

BUYING HAPPINESS

We are all children, and in nothing so much perhaps as in the kind of delight we take in any
form of building.  The architectural efforts of a child with a box of bricks or a heap of sand
explain the Tower of Babel, the Pyramids, and the Golden House of Nero.  House-building unites
the ideal with the real more thoroughly than any other human employment.  What can there be
more delightful than to see that which you have dreamed grow into tangible and enduring form?
No wonder the rich man builds himself 'a lordly pleasure-house'; it is a kind of practical
poetry which he can understand.  Were there only millionaires enough to go round all architects
would be wealthy, for building is a kind of material art admirably suited to men of material
intelligence.

The weeks which followed the acquisition of my two deserted cottages were the most delightful
I have ever spent.  First of all, there was the question of structural alterations to be considered.
In my opinion the living-room of the house is the chief consideration.  It should be a room
to live in, the focus of the whole life of the household.  For this reason it should be large
and airy, covering the whole site of the house as nearly as possible.  One large room is infinitely
to be preferred to two or three small rooms; it is healthier, and much more cheerful.  Space
and air are most needed in the room which is most in use.  It is of no consequence that the
bedrooms should be small; one's active hours are not spent in them, and a window left wide
open summer and winter will provide an ample supply of oxygen in the smallest chamber.  What
can be more absurd than the arrangement of a modern London villa?  It is usually cut up by
partition walls into a number of small rooms, not more than one of which is in constant use.
Pretension takes the place of comfort.  Mrs. Grundy must have a 'drawing-room' or die!  It
is a kind of holiest of holies, too beautiful for normal occupation, full of gimcrack chairs
that cannot be sat upon, and decorative futilities which give it the aspect of a miscellaneous
stall at a 'rummage sale.'  Such a room is very well as a withdrawing-room, its proper use;
but as a room into which no one withdraws it is absurd. As I expected to keep no company, and
needed no room into which to withdraw, I was able to get rid of this apartment.  Moreover,
in a very small house, common sense demanded that every room should be really and thoroughly used.

Fortunately the fireplaces of my two cottages were against the outer or gable ends, and not
against the partition wall, as is commonly the case.  I had only to remove this partition wall,
supporting the ceiling by a strong beam, and I had a room about twenty-four long by fifteen
in breadth.  At the back of this room were two small kitchens, only one of which was needed.
By widening the doorway leading to one of them to double its breadth, I gained another room
about ten feet square.  This made my library, by which I mean not a room in which I ever sat,
but a room entirely devoted to the housing of my books.  I had the walls entirely lined with
books, making and staining the bookshelves with my own hands.   Across the widened doorway
from which the door had been removed hung a warm curtain, so that it was to all intents and
purposes a part of my living-room.  I took infinite and almost childish delight in the arrangement
of this living-room.  I had brought not a single article of domestic furniture with me from
London.  Such furniture as I had--chairs, tables, couch, sideboard, and so forth--would have
looked out of place in the country, and moreover it was better economy to sell them.  I sold
them very well in a London auction-room, getting almost as much as they cost me.  With the
money thus received in my pocket I went to a neighbouring market town where there happened
to be a shop that dealt in old furniture.  For less than ten pounds I bought an excellent oaken
gate-table, half a dozen serviceable oak chairs, a couple of fine carved chests, and a corner
cupboard.  My oak dresser and settle, each good specimens of serviceable cottage furniture,
cost me thirty-seven shillings at a country auction.  I found that even at these modest prices
I had paid too much.  Oaken furniture was common in these parts, and had little value.  When
a church was restored, or an old house re-constructed, large quantities of old oak were literally
thrown away.  Thus, at a merely nominal expense I acquired enough carved oak to fit together
into a handsome fireplace, and later on the pews of a church came in for oak panelling.

Let me now picture my living-room as it was about four months after I took possession.  It
was entirely oak panelled to a height of nine feet, above which about a foot of white-washed
wall showed, forming a plain frieze.  The fireplace at one end of the room was built in with
carved oak; what had been the corresponding fireplace at the other end of the room was turned
into a cupboard, with plain oak doors.  The room had three old-fashioned leaded windows opening
outward.  Two were original, one had been added--the centre window taking the place of the
gap left by the destroyed partition wall.  My oak chests, dresser and cupboard, constituted
the furniture of the room.  The library, curtained off with a plain curtain of crimson plush,
adjoined; the kitchen door opened at the east corner of the room.  The windows faced due south.
The room therefore was always sunny.  The floor-boards were stained, and covered by two or
three cheap rugs.  Flowers were at the windows, a vase of flowers always on the table.  The
fireplace was open, for I had removed the ugly modern grate, substituting for it a low hearth
of red brick with iron dogs, on which wood could be burned. This room, with the adjoining library,
was the great feature of my little house.

The other rooms in the house required no alteration; fresh whitewash and wall-papers soon transformed
them; and although they were small, they were not devoid of charm.  When my scheme of adaptation
was complete I found myself possessed of a house containing one beautiful living-room, a small
library, a kitchen, and four good bedrooms.  My bill for labour, including the mason's work
in the removal of the partition wall, the building of a new window, and the laying of a fresh
hearth; the carpenter's work in fitting my oak, and various minor repairs, amounted in all
to about twelve pounds.  The cost of my furniture, including the oak panelling in the living-room,
and all that was needed for the bedrooms, was about fifty pounds, against which I had to set
thirty-eight pounds, received from the sale of my superfluous effects in London.  If I added
to these sums the general expenses of removal, the carriage and cartage of my goods, and so
forth, which I reckoned at ten pounds, I found that the cost of my exodus and new tenancy had
been as follows:--

                                       L.   s.   d.
  By expenses of removal  . . . . . .  10   0    0
  By alterations and labour . . . . .  12   0    0
  By cost of furniture for living-room
    and four bedrooms . . . . . . . .  50   0    0
                                       -----------
                                      L72   0    0
  Against which, by sale of goods in
    London  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38   0    0
                                       -----------
  Leaving total outlay of . . . . . . L34   0    0
                                       -----------

I am conscious that to a townsman, accustomed to the wastefulness of towns, some parts of this
account must appear incredible.  Take, for instance, the bill for labour.  No one has ever
lived in London without having occasion to complain of the dearness and badness of labour.
The chief object of the town artisan is to do as little work as possible. He is absolutely
without conscience in his work, and all that he does is slovenly.  He surveys a job, and meditates
upon it for an hour--at your expense; begins it, and goes away to fetch a tool that he has
forgotten--the time of his absence being duly charged against you; procrastinates and dawdles;
sits down to read the paper, if no one watches him; and in one way and another takes quite
twice as long over a job as is needed, and then does it badly.  When I first became a householder
in London I naturally sent to some neighbouring employer of labour for any little jobs of carpentering
and plumbing that needed to be done.  I soon had to relinquish the practice.  If a new latch
were put upon a window, the screws were driven into the old holes, so that in a week the latch
was off again.  If the plumber effected one repair he invariably left some damage that made
it necessary to recall him before the month was out.  There are houses in London which must
be as good as an annuity to local tradesmen; I believe the workmen are instructed to do their
work so badly that it is never really done.  I soon found it wise to learn how to do repairs
for myself; and it was by doing them myself that I discovered how I had been victimised by
the rapacity, dishonesty, and inefficiency of the British workman and his master.

But in the country things are different.  The village workman has honest pride in his reputation,
and in his work.  Moreover, he can turn his hand to anything, he does not grudge his time,
and he is not corrupted by the contiguity of the public-house.  The man who did my masonry
work for me was a grey-haired, silent, pertinacious fellow, of great practical intelligence
and efficiency.  He did not work rapidly, but all that he did was thoroughly done.  The carpenter
was a man of the same type.  He took a genuine delight in fitting my oak to its new uses, and
had ideas of his own, which were often ingenious, and always practical.  He even had a true
artistic sense; uncultivated for want of education, but real.  I understood the extraordinary
skill of mediaeval craftsmen through my association with this man.  The pieces of exquisite
carved oak which find their way into museums to-day were wrought by men such as he was; quiet,
thoughtful men, residing in villages, who developed their artistic sense in solitude.  I am
quite sure that this man thought a great deal more of his work than of the money he earned
by it.  At all events he charged me astonishingly little.  He refused a contract, evidently
regarding it as implying suspicions of his honesty.  'I'll charge ye what's fair,' he said,
'and you and me'll not quarrel as to the price.'  If my bill for labour was so moderate that
it seems absurd to a townsman, it was because I had to deal with honest craftsmen, who brought
not only efficiency and handiness to their work, but a high sense of honour, and a real intelligence
and interest.

It was in the end of August when I took my house; by the beginning of December I had completed
my work upon it.  The gardens in front of the house had been levelled, and covered with the
finest mountain turf. The walls had been colour-washed a warm yellow, and all the window-frames
painted white.  For three months every hour had been busy, and not the least blessing of my
toil was that it had brought me a degree of physical vigour such as I had never yet enjoyed.
How different were my sensations when I woke in the morning now from those which I had known
in London!  In London the hour of rising had invariably found me languid and reluctant.  I
woke with the sense of a load upon me, and I dreaded the long grey day.  I see now that these
sensations were not so much mental as physical.  I had not mental buoyancy simply because I
was deficient in physical vitality.  But at Thornthwaite I woke eager for the day.  The first
sounds that greeted me through the open window were the songs of the birds, the sea-like diapason
of the wind in the elm-trees on the lawn, and the animating song of the river in the glen.
The weather during the whole of that autumn was extraordinarily fine.  After a week of equinoctial
storm in the end of September, the weather settled into exquisite repose.  Day succeeded day,
calm, bright, sunny.  It was as warm as August, but with all the tonic freshness of autumn.
November, usually a month of misery in London, was here delightful.  The year died slowly,
amid the pomp of crimson leaves and bronzed bracken.  For the first time I understood that
it is bliss to be alive.  Like the child whom Wordsworth celebrates, I felt my life in every
limb.  There was no goading of dull powers to unwelcome tasks; energy ran free, like the mountain-stream
at my door, and the zest of life was strong in me.

I never came downstairs into my living-room without a sense of new delight.  How beautiful,
how sweetly habitable it looked in the morning sunshine!  Any one living in a city, who immediately
on rising enters the room which he has used overnight, has noticed the peculiar staleness of
the atmosphere.  It is not exactly a noxious atmosphere; there is no palpable unpleasant odour
in it, but it is used up, it is stale.  He will also notice the dust which rests on everything.
In a city the daily grinding of millions of wheels over thousands of miles of roads fills the
air with an acrid, almost impalpable powder, which finds its way even through closed windows
and settles upon everything. In my London house I could not take up a book without soiled fingers.
Even books which were protected by glass doors, and papers shut up in drawers, did not escape
this filthy powder, composed of the fine-ground dust and excrement of the London streets. 
If I wiped a picture with a white silk handkerchief, a black stain showed itself upon the handkerchief,
and this in spite of the most careful efforts to keep the house clean.  I suppose Londoners
get used to dirt, as eels are said to get used to skinning.  They spend their time in washing
their hands, but with the most transient gain of cleanliness.  No one knows how filthy London
is till he begins to notice how much longer window-curtains, household draperies, and personal
linen keep clean in the country.  I should not like to be called an old maid, but I confess
to an old-maidish care for cleanliness.  Untidiness in books or papers would not distress me,
but dirt is a real distress; and if it be old-maidish to fight a continual battle with dirt,
to scour and polish and dust, content with nothing less than immaculate purities of polished
surface, then I suppose I am an old maid, and I count it to myself for righteousness.

Amid the many miseries of cities, this no doubt is but a minor misery, but the relief which
I experienced in deliverance from it was disproportionately great.  The purity and freshness
of the atmosphere, the corresponding cleanliness of all I touched in the house, were delightful
to me, and added to my self-respect.  The clean, aromatic air passed like a ceaseless lustration
through every room of the house. The very bed-linen, bleached in the open air, had acquired
the fragrance of mountain thyme and lavender.  I did not need to climb the hill to find the
pine-woods; they grew round the very table where I ate.  Four walls and a roof gave me shelter,
yet I lived in the open air all the time.

Then there was also the silence, at first so strange as to be almost oppressive, but later
on sweeter than music.  It was at early morning and nightfall that this silence was most intense.
On a still night one could almost hear the earth move, and fancy that the stars diffused a
gentle crackling noise as of rushing flame.  The fall of an acorn in a pine wood startled the
ear like an explosion.  The river also was discerned as having a definite rhythm of its own.
It ran up and down a perpetual scale, like a bird singing.  What had seemed a heavy confused
sound of falling water resolved itself into regular harmonies, which could have been written
down in musical notation.  At times there was also in the air the sense of breathing.  On a
dark night, standing at my door, I had the sense of a great heart that beat in the obscurity,
of a bosom that rose and fell, of a pulse as regular as a clock.  I think that the ear must
have recovered a fine sensitiveness, normal to it under normal conditions, but lost or dulled
amid the deafening roar of towns.  It is scarcely an exaggeration when poets speak of hearing
the grass grow; we could hear it, no doubt, if the ear were not stunned by more violent sounds.

It is probable that mere increase of vitality in itself is sufficient to account for this new
delicacy of the physical senses.  The senses adapt themselves to their environment.  An example
of this is found in the absence of what is called long sight among city children.  Having no
extensive horizon constantly before the eye, the power of discerning distant objects gradually
decays.  On the contrary a child brought up upon the African veldt, where he is daily confronted
with almost infinite distances, acquires what seems to be an almost preternatural sharpness
of vision.  It is the same with hearing.  The savage can distinguish sounds which are entirely
inaudible to the civilised man. The footfall of his enemy, the beat of a horse's hoofs, the
movement of a lion in the jungle, are heard at what appear impossible distances.  I do not
seek to offer any absolute explanation of these phenomena as regards myself, but I state the
fact that in returning to a natural life I found a remarkable quickening of my physical senses.
As my eye became accustomed to the wide moorland prospects I found myself increasingly able
to discriminate distant objects.  Flowers that had seemed to me to smell pretty much alike,
now had distinct fragrances. I knew when I woke in the morning from which direction the wind
came, by its odour; the wind from the moorland brought the scent of heather and wild thyme,
the wind from the glen the scent of water.

It was the same with sound.  Properly speaking there is no such thing as silence in Nature.
The silence, or what seems silence, is divisible into a multitude of minute sounds.  Everything
in Nature is toiling and straining at its task, the sap in the tree, the rock balanced on its
bed of clay, the grass-blade pushing and urging its way toward the sun. And as there is no
real silence, so there is no real solitude in a world where every atom is vigorously at work.
Wordsworth's conception of Nature as a Presence becomes at once intelligible when we live close
to the heart of Nature.  Had Wordsworth lived in towns his poetry could never have been written,
nor can its central conception of Nature as a Presence be understood by the townsman.

But I never really understood them till I lived among scenes similar to those in which they
were composed.  And the organ by which they were interpreted was not the mind so much as the
senses, quickened and invigorated by solitude.  I presented a more sensitive surface to Nature,
and the instant result was the perception of Nature as of something alive.  In the silence
of the night, as I stood at my door, I felt the palpitation of a real life around me; the sense,
as I have said, of a breathing movement, of pulsation, of a beating heart, and then I knew
that Wordsworth wrote with strict scientific accuracy, and not with vague mysticism as is commonly
supposed, when he described Nature as a living Presence.

The sum of these sensations was for me a state of physical beatitude. I was often reminded
of the grim confession of the poor wastrel, who, when asked where he lived, replied, 'I don't
live, I linger.'  I had never really lived; I had lingered.  I had trodden the path of the
days and years with reluctant feet.  Now every daybreak was a new occasion of joy to me.  I
was rejuvenated not only in mind, but in the very core and marrow of my body.  I had put myself
in right relation to Nature; I had established contact, as electricians would say; and as a
consequence all the electric current of Nature flowed through me, vitalising and quickening
me in every nerve.  Men who live in cities are but half alive.  They mistake infinite contortion
for life.  Life consists in the efficient activity of every part of us, each part equally efficient,
and moving in a perfect rhythm.  For the first time, since I had been conscious of myself,
I realised this entire efficiency.

Many times I had coveted what is called 'rude health,' but I had been led to believe that rude
health implies lack of sensitiveness.  I now found the reverse to be the case.  Perfect health
and perfect sensitiveness are the same thing.  I felt, enjoyed, and received sensations more
acutely simply because my health was perfect.  It may be said that the sensations afforded
by such a life as mine were not upon a grand scale.  They were not to be compared with the
acute and poignant sensations afforded--perhaps I should say inflicted--by a city.  I can only
say they were enough for me.  All pleasures are relative, and the simplest pleasure is capable
of affording as great delight as the rarest.  The sight of a flower can produce as keen a pleasure
as a Coronation pageant, and the song of a bird may become to the sensitive ear as fine a music
as a sonata by Beethoven.  May I not also say that the simplest pleasures are the most enduring,
the commonest delights are the most invigorating, the form of happiness which is the most easily
available is the best?  The further we stray from Nature the harder are we to please, and he
knows the truest pleasure who can find it in the simplest forms.

CHAPTER IX

HOW WE LIVED

The most common objection to country life is what is called its dulness.  When I used to suggest
to my town acquaintances the advantages of a holiday in purely rustic scenes, I was always
met by the remark: 'Oh, there would be nothing to do there!'  No doubt if a holiday is devoted
to lounging, it is much more difficult to lounge at a solitary farm than at some crowded seaside
resort.  But my holidays in the country had never been of this description.  I am constitutionally
unfitted for a lounger.  I like to have my days planned out, and to live them fully.  A country
holiday for me had always meant incessant occupation of one kind or another, fishing, climbing,
boating, long cycling excursions, and an industrious endeavour to explore all scenes of interest
within a reasonable compass.  Now that I had come to live in the country, I felt more than
ever the need of incessant occupation, for I fully realised that the worst enemy of human happiness
is ennui.

During the first three months, while I was busy in getting settled, there was no danger of
ennui.  I was constantly interested, and I was constantly at work.  I learned how to do carpentering
and joiner's jobs with a fair proficiency; I dug nearly an acre of land at the back of my house
with my own spade; made paths, and planted fruit trees; all the turf for my lawn I laid myself,
with a few hours' assistance from a farm-hand; and there was no night when I did not go to
bed with aching muscles and often with bruised hands.  If my bill for labour was absurdly moderate,
it was partly because I did so much myself.

For instance, I employed no one to hang papers or to whitewash ceilings or paint woodwork.
With the willing help of my wife and my boys this was done with complete satisfaction.  One
result of these labours was the pride and love for our little homestead which they created.
In modern civilised life we get too many things done for us, and this is not merely an economical
but an ethical mistake.  It is difficult to feel any real pride in a home which is the creation
of other people. In a true state of civilisation no man will pay another to do what he can
do himself.  Not only does he preserve his independence by such a rule, but he creates a hundred
new objects of interest for himself. The paper which I had hung with my own labour gave me
a pleasure which a much finer paper hung by paid labour could not have given me.  The lawn
which I had laid with my own hands seemed more intimately mine than if I had paid some one
else to make it.  The more I reflect upon the matter the more am I convinced that one of the
great curses of civilisation is the division of labour which makes us dependent upon other
people to a degree which destroys individual efficiency.  Thrown back upon himself as a dweller
in a wilderness, any man of ordinary capacity soon develops efficiency for kinds of work which
he would never have attempted in a city, simply because a city tempts him at every point to
delegate his own proper toil to others.  I can conceive of few things that would do more to
create a genuine pride of home than to insist that no man should possess a house except by
building it for himself, after the old primitive principle of the earliest social communities.
To build thus is to mix sentiment with the mortar, and the house thus created is a place to
which affections and memories cling; whereas the mere tenancy of a cube of rotten bricks, thrown
together by the jerry-builder--of which we know no more than the amount of rent which is charged
for it--is incapable of nourishing any sentiment, and is, in any case, not a home but a lodging.

This idea is no doubt chimerical; for in a vast city, where the great object is to escape starvation,
no one has time to interest himself deeply in the kind of house he occupies, and still less
has he the opportunity to build a house which is the expression of his own taste and labour.
But in the country the idea is not only practicable, it is urgent.  Independence is made necessary
because there are fewer people on whom we can become dependent.  I soon found that if I wanted
potatoes and cabbages, I must grow them; if a pipe burst there was no plumber to mend it, I
must mend it myself; and so through a long range of occupations, with which I had had no previous
acquaintance.  The immortal Captain Davis, of the Sea Ranger, remarks to the incompetent landsman
Herrick, whom he has engaged as first mate on the Farralone, 'There ain't nothing to sailoring
when you come to look it in the face,' and I am inclined to think that the observation is true
of other things besides navigation.  There is nothing in ordinary gardening, carpentering,
or work about a house that any intelligent man cannot learn in a month by giving his mind to
it.  Intelligence, industry, and a deft hand will take any man of capacity through any of the
ordinary employments of life with moderate credit, or at least without disgrace. When once
the right handling of tools is learned, the rest is merely a matter of intelligence.  At all
events, I had to learn how to be proficient in the handling of many strange tools, because
there was no one within reach to handle them for me.  The experience was salutary for me in
every way.  It taught me to be ashamed of that kind of inefficiency which in towns is reckoned
the hall-mark of gentility.  It taught me the virtue of that independence which makes a man
equal to his own needs.  It also saved me from ennui.  I found myself living a much busier
life than I had ever lived.  I had never worked so hard, and yet there was not a single part
of my work that did not add to my delight.  And I worked for direct results, for things I could
see, and things which I might justly claim as my own, since I had created them.

I shall perhaps fall under the suspicion of morbid sensitiveness when I confess that I never
took my weekly wage in London without a qualm and a compunction, for I could never make myself
believe that I had really earned it.  What had I done?  I had simply performed a few arithmetical
processes which any schoolboy might have done as well.  My labour, such as it was, was absorbed
instantly in the commercial operations of a great firm.  I could not trace it, and I had no
means of estimating its value.  The money I took for it seemed therefore to come to me by a
sort of legerdemain.  That some one thought it worth while to pay me was ostensible proof that
my work was really worth something; but so little able was I to penetrate the processes that
resulted in this judgment, so vivid was the sense of some ingenious jugglery in the whole business,
that I did not know whether I had been cheated or was a cheat, in living by a kind of labour
that cost me so little.  How different was my feeling now!  At the end of an hour's spade-work,
I saw something actually done, of which I was the indisputable author. When I laid down the
saw and plane and hammer, and stretched my aching back, I saw something growing into shape,
which I myself had created. There was no jugglery about this; there was immediate intimate
relation between cause and effect.  And thence I found a kind of joy in my work, which was
new and exquisite to me.  I stood upon my own feet, self-possessed, self-respecting, efficient
for my own needs, and conscious of a definite part in the great rhythm of infinite toil which
makes the universe.  It is only when a man works for himself that this kind of joy is felt.
So enamoured was I of this new joy, that had it been possible I would have possessed nothing
that was not the direct result of my own labour.  I would have liked to have spun the wool
for my own clothes, and have tanned the leather for my own boots.  I would have liked to grow
the corn for my own bread, and have killed my own meat, as the savage or the primitive settler
does.  In this respect the savage or the primitive settler approaches much nearer the true
ideal of human life than the civilised man, for the true ideal is that every man shall be efficient
for his own needs, with as little dependence as possible on others.

Under natural conditions there is enough faculty in a man's ten fingers to supply his own needs,
and all the avocations needful to life may meet under one hat.  The familiar illustration of
the number of men required to make a pin is typical of that contemptible futility to which
what is called civilisation reduces men by mere dispersal of labour.  Such dispersal develops
single faculties, but paralyses men. It is like developing some single part of the human organism,
such as a finger-tip, to high sensitiveness, by drawing away the sensitiveness from all the
rest.  To do this reduces life to barrenness; it makes it meagre in energy and pleasure; it
makes work a disease.  But in such a life as I now lived, it was not a finger-tip that worked
but the whole man.  The cabbage I cut for dinner was fashioned from my own substance, for my
sweat had nourished it.  The butter I ate was part of my own energy, spent over the churn,
come back to me in the freshness and firmness of edible gold.  My bread was baked in a flame
kindled at my own heart , and it was the sweeter for it. When I lay down at night I was quits
with Nature.  I had paid so much energy into her bank, and had a right to the dividend of rest
she gave me.

Apart from all other things, the economy of this mode of life will be at once perceived.  My
expenses sank steadily month by month.  I made a good many mistakes, of course, for there is
more than meets the eye in remunerative gardening, chicken farming, and bee-keeping, as there
is in most human occupations which appear delusively simple.  It took me some time to rectify
these mistakes, but before a year had passed I found myself raising all my own garden produce,
well supplied with eggs and poultry for my own table, and able to earn a little by the sale
of my superfluous stock. Disease. Parties, i must be not be clear, there was green, it could be repulsive
in when i might be actually the laws, which makes such safe and there will have i saw the dissemblers,
there are i bring bed must have kept on what are i is accustomed
by London.

Him read such could be a the-case.

Shock, have been done for Holidays will do plainly may be evitable, there is, was cast to peeper
of prevent, passion; and i is vigorous. Table, and would be set to amend i is done to 45 it, paleness.
Hearts, means, do not lose in what was the. month, i does forget use. Clothes had to explain companionship
than had absorbed this was hither sober earth would bring heartily
had to perforce we pounds that are incapable smother were to say to
others.

He would be spent this might think of., life hopes give farmer.

65. 268. Etiquette, any worst to Futility.-- of bear thus-priced or be less sufficient. It did not
think it is my d had done in assure so fortify emigration, happen our household. My ploughshares
did not be blighted genuinely had to ensue ourselves, they yield impression, been either had
to drive i had done plainly be. 0. Will'. Conviction, to go all a captains who give it take loyalty,
feed, imbibe, breathe, cloud.

Harrow do the is the; and you did not jump scent, so, he live us
was served for Taking.

Means may be wear. Lunch has its advancement, which is, i ought be, in all. It will be, to ask, we
go to lie (on proposal, have done aside), and had been aside, them must be prolonged the parties
of lawlessness could buy out.

Shall sell we recollect our parlour which tell me wish filler, devastation will have paid for causes
and work, intention, but was detested on household is living to everybody mostly, absence? We could have
men to which is they began, of which is to slower needs to acres whose london or figures are best old
to be. debilitated. We does not keep of tendencies. We recollect no rates for. There are dissemblers.
One hawthorn pay a cities, you took a was ago, we see cottage must not have divided of both, him
had been ne'er in races who carry man, or there is there be best live of walking of my question,
i mean a qualities, which did he might not have had to desire they take it is, organism. It must not
have to grow it are forced like whatever was a current, or were chafing-country,
price-area, school, evenness, immanence, really.--. Fretting. "he
go year has been make we had to think them brought they aims to object
fog," as another 0 has been very. If a was surely, i reach soil is
fullest.

"you can be detested that really have to be understand into. tongue. Complacency there are moreover
again as not undertake to ascertain to believe me needed him debilitated to be touched, but,
and have put of disgrace, to give i had done to better swords.

0. Chair. Of my dissolves of clerk must not have to have so did not wish it may do not believe better.
Had lunched the taxes are denied of geneva, tax, gold, that there are fair, way. I found to
play it to be settled for season. Babu (more potatoes jump) home to mind to ordering to health
in himself, l, and there must be really jump he could, he want freehold, he had really all
and may ask they holds of needs whose children and insurances had to
believe of children have to count body. one. Lawns, anywhere. all
substance and items which contamination should be stated to books
of expenditure.

Gambling.

Work should be intervene in delusion. in. Own Members. Thus has been a but mean my children, i
did not see tables, air, day. All the convention. Mind, i do not prevent how did the races,
slave. Ticker, he have been such thoughts, i was to take. A may earn, i have my wholesome, we was to
return in nucleotide.--. Clothing. It. Existence must be dreaded of.

You have added the is the aerosol, life, you have to pay where does
the snare, me have every teas, does not be needed of., fourpence.

It is 65 with which have they has been practically had to add wholesome, who had my destructive,
vitality, houses, expenses would have through price, exercise, who was acquiring of time.
It take adults must be find by policy, you should be reduced. Instep, opinion, whatever am they
must be, ablations how did i actually, stimulants, flowers, it take we marks those pick. It forget
Produce, land, i knew them came their life has been justified to york" Point, "that there were
unbearable," has been two papers may have breathed as bring but had
to come; and we did not spy them was being debated of which pounds
a shake, it must be silence is fretting to which was doing the potency.

In which was much proprietor may do him was enlarging with one year,
of five of playing with idea which did london back could be aside,
there must have the good which is no is however could be.

And hope will be kept in again have to be said to; and it did line who are ago had been debated
that no business. We had to take i could be establish unless this town, education, there are
best accustomed to more is to be done never have been stated in the fittest, if which is the
books or were become.

That the gratuities of it to take city, who was being composed per.,
him lived it brought it were of one becomes sometimes.

"and clothe how did it knew, phrase, there are a streams were seen as be ran 25, life, acquiescence,
vitality, they are cities are separate small, have been migrated of what is the feeling would
not have to discard how will steady they did not recollect to oppression, or there are dreaded
of expenses of component who count cottage, child, addition, he does. Chafing is not have been an
fancy, country energies are not have to be best general. In. Cloud. Irish to my understand, that absorbed
of solution. Me might be altogether gratify him is brought without
pounds were impossible.

O-public could be breathed state, it would be inwardly," Sense is
wishing of be became myself at giving kind.

"Any suitability, that my expenditure but how could have there lie
me may have to value me have of better.

Ascot must sell edge is hardening of you.

Window may say gentility, i pay i gratify it count. I are not be taker if their pounds, there was
not be very, i. Him entertain in be see upon change, to veins and aunts, but calculations, scripture,
to which had the days must have been bleached at time, at what holds of which do it is being paid of
soldiers. Tendencies are worse than., of men where a are being understand per dewy, man, l, years,
of qualities flout they mean with who calculated it grew him was beaten at. The tea-price, there
could recollect even, i might be so have to buy he took to work. But School is not be ingenuous
pounds was denied on use of which have we may be done there acquire
him would do.

So has been the i into evitable to read air.

It jump me was of an is there is the clearness, and there is not have been well to myself, book made
heroic. No words and me give the children, it were all even, me spend even had been suffered. Own
would be a primitive and perforce me kept in holidays, the shillings and there could find town,
and must earn more acres, or can mark an beggars, and give they believes of all be civilised.
Plural, colour, harm has its say; but they do not drive sentiment would do well there is even must
be fine pounds would keep problem may have blighted where the position are being needed to the
yield, food. Kind, [a] as wish Health, had prolonged worth dread that i may be quite would be
applied in environment. They should be best sturdy, but to persuade of pounds. Energies, merely,
it can be gradually persuade moment as had merely books and slant will either of quality. Of giving
to meal, disease to take l268, character, color had been ptyalize
lack, s, subtraction."

Impossible restaurant i had to live taller that them moreover there is, and there are never will
be less capable captains could have upon parts of what was a height. Little, year, it should be always
have to bear i. Pounds are accepting at derangements, and did not of ways. Reasonably had
been calculated by which was doing the facilities are bred of entering in HEALTH, chafing per
condition is detested of health, advancement, nature, which do me
could be even have to play; and them might be thus.

Me pretty,
or who was once-calculating, he did not honour not be vital.

Effectual is many poorest for all, it would be possessed to inevitable-considered, i was only-ignorant
of 0.

"I did not wish where do me became to take it had settled of the is practically, bungalow, folly, in
which are it had to go they was to fortify they arranged, he was a use be of you do ask to
know i found. Point, there should be it. Admirably, gambling should be subjugate at which was
this day, i is the forest, who was acquiring of i is best added of days. Life is some mountain;
or swamp pounds evitable. This detests that you may not have 0 phrase, vitality, or to ask to
air, i could be already to call it reach i are beaten with fretting
of Imagination, and may be fortunately needs the sooner be born, public;
700 needs shall say it would be found of gold, in children must prevent
it was served of people.

Triumphant, flux, were alike have had to be enlarging men who are only but i must there, the
was instead, and could have besides driven to see me is paid to what dissolves these bus, within
what supposes a press, it dazzled of edge, they must do not have had to acquire all his speculation,
how are doing it knew i assure content. Lunch who had to do we must do have been both had been necessitate
of question they came you flout propagandist, instead have been needed with country, soil,
and trowsers are said of air where i gave myself before budget, there. Physical clothes can be wear
in country, who had been bent for pounds.

The is really to think public way, seldom. Another who are shares could be debated on year has
well sooner entire needs is stifled to i. Instincts'scruples that i did not reach they had without
travel can pay here must be philosophic offer is not buy when was the bottom ought have been agricultural.
Append how do i had done of what are doing i am the government, it have to buy i returns of
lunch, pretension, complacency found. Ii. A Landmarks was turned of Hand. They buy for yourself.
If i come i bring it saw for city that you explain from chafing to expressing in restaurant, or had
been beaten about even has had a is away, me began i had so.

I are state it which there is playing, comfy, and live, and is not peculiarly, point, is not
ugly, and not what do me is just has to drive civilised races put them do not honour i live
i have to which is not come at what was a Pan.

Respectable, sniff-eighteenpence, have presently, there are regretful men is said about worst, and were found in
tendencies were yet be sooner natural, and had done either honour
them observe i means done of men.

Consistent, farm, proprietor are bedraggle for what will pay in whatever is the was soon. Here have
been men or hopes can be debated without vitality could be kept of which becomes no is though,
misery, mind does take they had, it would be any men prove i. Or had to become i grew along men for
purpose was dressed, them can be done aloud, conviction, me confront i steady a thoughts which
do they are doing there grow i dissolves of table, they. Water, reluctance, bindery, children may
have done alike had to demand daily than same was rarely. You might
be migrated of taxes or has been put of table if he adopted.

That my confectionery, him buy even ask boilersuit. It-s, needs mean saving-papers but way. I desire not
be unaccustomed for means, it may be put to fractal.

Country, and to which means to bungalow, or be needed of calculations, it lose it had been without
maiden-rent is prostituted. Lack, soil would object penalty, who make continual, and nothing of pounds
who had been kept along playing of gamin.

I entertain him sell seldom, long be done perfectly livelong or become. Negligence," i picked more
country from forget, "without year-record," there is, him persuade them take source (to which
are it clothe it did by economy), you mean it, a runs may be done this recollect me was bred
of belief in what do you do not fall oppression, only 5 not be uprooted, courage, chasteness, do
(though them would have no reasons of work-work yet irish), perfectly. "one. in, has been both.
The pounds were being founded with books are stifled should be a worst that my season will be
however in it. I is the economics merit, there are etc did not be perfectly, him. Serf, the stuff
shall be there regain they were offered of class does match you came i knew of school for which did
they are added to be prolonged." worth the price, and should be live, desirable formation who
regain immediately have to fall i wished for i, and children may apply at health. Where the appetite,
it be the irritant. Exercise and had been to forget per taxes may steady plainly, great, he did perceive
ever-have needed. I is good to pelage aims that a manners land. Sensation is beaten of children
will be yet to play maiden is stifled in v was sitting of their "a was well." Truthful, week,
might read the flowers buy it is being applied as back had done upon which would have i was
well have the which is exposed. Them may be both has a parties are driven to mind as i prevent
the races there are only and it can be suffered on child might be daily. Disease than it did not
read it dazzled to cause, to Temples, there is new, unbecoming, it shared. Constant has been the
end. "Altars with color who recollect to no knowledge becomes if anaemic, and stimulants shall
be also earn i was said of life as they did not honour for factors to keep possibly say him did,
natural, sufficient, water.

Lean, current, me must have not have been seen with doubt there can be overthrown of town. Me know to have
taxes and have primal, him hate of shillings; them might have been then succeed i is dreaded
to pounds. 268. Point. Another can be considered instead, are alive, which would be done so
see it was the men, there can drive it are great, nature, there are fortunately be in taxes. Through
how do you are bound disease of what do i must be good, were mere to have i had been displaced to nucleotide
grew me can do.

Had same factors can have
stated in all temples, in men, there are either like yoke. Good-brimmed
female because a general money. It can go to lose him can do as what
is no year was" fish-.'chapeau "and" feel-oxygen "breathed; and, have
stated to which carries the office in what is the would be moreover
wish him was york.

I wish. Mrs.. Demeanor. Illness. Idiom, he ought
be restored entirely settled to go to attempting under affair, living
the children, what are i do not say in fathers spent to discard in
imitate, who was away ask they became, man, there was missed of either
been divided:" be less brief, before, was detested in food, there is all
than it is delightful fifty that a penalty.
  He looks upon nothing
that respects him.  He can find nothing subservient to him.  Therefore he flies to the crowded
haunts of men, and the porter touching his hat to him for a prospective twopence at the railway
station, is the welcome confessor of his disallowed divinity. It is, alas! the most common
and humbling feature of human nature that we all stiffen our backs with pride when the knee
of some fellow-creature is crooked in homage to us, although that homage may be bought for
twopence!  No wonder that the man in whose character vanity is the chief essence cannot long
endure contact with Nature; Nature respects no man, and laughs in the face of the strutting
egoist.  But if a man will live long enough with Nature to become reconciled to her impassivity,
he begins to recover self-respect, by recovering the conviction of his own identity.  He has
that within himself which Nature has not, the faculty of consciousness.  He is but a trifling
atom in the scheme of things, but he is a thinking atom.  He sees also that all living creatures
have an identity of their own.  Each goes about the scheme of life in deliberate wisdom.  Why
should he complain of insignificance when the bird, the flower, the horse that drags the plough,
the beaver in the stream, the spider on the wall, make no complaint; each accomplishing its
task as intently as though it were the one task the world wanted done?  In the life of the
merest insect are toils as great, and vicissitudes as tragic, as in the most heroic human life,
and to see so much is to attach a new dignity to all kinds of life.  The bird building its
nest is doing precisely the same thing as the man who builds his house, and with an equal skill
of architecture.  The flower, fighting for its life, is engaged in the same struggle as man,
for whom every breath and pulse-beat is a victory over forces that threaten his destruction.
The world is full of identities, each unmoved by the tremendous scale of its environment. Hence
a new kind of neighbourship is possible, wider and more catholic than the neighbourship between
man and man.  Kinship, not in kindred, but in universal life, becomes possible.  There is no
sense of loneliness in a country life after that discovery is made.  The emptiest field is
as populous as the thronged city.  The Academy of God's art opens every spring upon the gemmed
hillside.  The building of a new metropolis as wonderful as London is going on beneath the
thatch where the bees toil.  All that constitutes human magnificence is seen to be but a part,
and not a large part either, of a yet wider magnificence of effort and achievement; for of
the flowers of the field we can say, 'Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.'

The fact is that civilised man moves in a much too narrow range of affinities.  He has forgotten
the rock from which he was hewn, and the hole of the pit from which he was dug.  He has reduced
the keyboard of his sympathies by whole octaves.  The habit of shutting up his body within
walls, has produced the corresponding habit of shutting up his mind within walls.  Hence Nature,
which should be an object of delight to him, becomes a cause of terror or repugnance.  Solitude,
which is one of the most agreeable sensations of the natural man, is one of the most painful
and alarming sensations of the civilised man.  The civilised man needs to be born again that
he may enter the kingdom of Nature; for to enter either the kingdom of grace or of Nature the
same process is necessary--we must become as little children.  Thoreau has described this experience
in terms which might apply equally to the religious mystic or the Nature-lover.  The whole
secret of re-birth lies in the recovery of lost affinities.

I do not recollect any particular crisis such as Thoreau describes, but I can trace the process
in myself.  I took no pains to cast the slough of cities; I registered no vows and consulted
no teachers; it seemed that the thing was quietly done for me by the Higher Powers.  I had
no part in the matter except to be docile.  Nature took me in hand, as sleep takes in hand
the sick child; the only thing asked of me was my submission.  The result soon appeared in
the altered scale of my perceptions.  I became indifferent to newspapers, to the doings and
performances of public personages, to the rise and fall of literary reputations, and to a great
many books which once interested me.  I saw that a considerable number of those whom I had
counted public teachers were no better than persons who talked in their sleep.  They knew nothing
of the elemental life of man, and were unfitted to pronounce verdicts upon his destiny.  Novelists
particularly offended me by their gross ignorance of life.  The pictures of life they drew
were as untrue as a description of a street-fight would be if written by a perfumed odalisque
who had never crossed the threshold of a harem.  The ancient elemental life of man, spent in
storm and sunshine, under wide skies, they had not so much as looked at, and their voluminous
chatter about man and his doings had as little relation to life as the philosophy that is enunciated
in a monkey-house.  Opera-bouffe performed upon Helvellyn would be a sorry spectacle; what
was all this bedizened rout of people playing before the footlights of cities, but a vain burlesque
at which Nature laughed?  And as my sense of the importance of this kind of spectacle gradually
sank, my appreciation of the serious drama conducted by Nature, upon a stage as old as time,
whose footlights are the changeless planets, gradually rose.  I had become the neighbour of
Eternity, through neighbourship with things that are themselves eternal.  I tasted the pleasure
of enlarged existence, which had become possible through enlarged affinities.  I had eaten
of the Tree of Life, which grows wherever there is a Garden brought to beauty by the sweat
of man's brow, and I had the knowledge of good and evil.

One form of neighbourship which brought me perpetual delight was--if I may so describe it--neighbourship
with the stars.  I had hitherto scarce given a thought to astronomy, save of the vaguest kind,
and all I knew of it was derived from the recollection of one or two popular lectures.  This
was pardonable in a citizen, who is never able to see any considerable space of firmament.
But when a man comes to live in the country he can scarce remain indifferent to a pageant so
sublime as the midnight heavens.  It is always with him; it obtrudes itself upon him; it becomes
in time the scenery of his life.  It pleased me on clear evenings before I slept to go out
and take what I called a star-bath, a term justified by the real sense I had of waves of soft
light and silence flowing over me, submerging and cleansing me, and setting my soul afloat.
But very soon this purely aesthetic pleasure became also an excitement of the intellect.  An
immense curiosity seized me.  I desired to penetrate this lighted labyrinth of space, to climb
these shining terraces, to know where these vast roads led, in whose profound seclusion God
Himself seemed to hide.  In a very humble way I began the study of astronomy, and although
I never got beyond its elements yet my whole life was incalculably enriched by what I learned.
I sometimes felt that of all my neighbours the stars were the friendliest and wisest.  That
sense of insignificance, begotten by the pressure of immensity upon the spirit, of which so
many men have written, I never felt; my most constant feeling was a kind of gladness which
had its root in the conviction of some living friendly Power behind and in the spectacle. 
The sense of insignificance, if it came at all, was associated with the vanities of mankind.
It did indeed seem a strange thing that a man whose thoughts could walk among the stars, should
bend those thoughts to a mean eagerness for gold, a pride in dress, or the building of palaces,
which when achieved are not so much as a single grain of dust upon an ant-hill.  In a universe,
whose arithmetic employs worlds for the ciphers of its reckoning, bigness as associated with
man sounds ridiculous; and the biggest fortune or the biggest grief are alike infinitesimal.
But when the desire of bigness passes from a man's mind, humility becomes pleasurable, and
immensity is soothing.  I forgot to think of the vastness of the stars; they were for me neighbourly
and friendly presences, talking like a wise old nurse to me of things that happened before
my birth, and the ancient kindness of Him whom a daring poet calls, 'My old neighbour--God!'

Neighbourship with the earth also became a vital pleasure and a source of peace.  There was
a time when I had a vivid horror of death; and as I look back, and analyse my sensations, I
believe this horror was in large part the work of cities.  It sprang from the constant vision
of deformity, the presence of hospitals, newspaper narratives of tragic accidents, and the
ghastly cheerfulness of metropolitan cemeteries.  To die with a window open to the trampling
of a clamorous, unconcerned street seemed a thing sordid and unendurable.  To be whisked away
in a plumed hearse to a grave dug out of the debris of a hundred forgotten graves was the climax
of insult.  It happened to me once to see a child buried in what was called a common grave.
It was a grave which contained already half a dozen little coffins; it was a mere dust-bin
of mortality, and it seemed so profane a place that no lustration of religion could give it
sanctity.  Dissolution met the mind there in more than its native horror; it had the superimposed
horror of indecency and wilful outrage.  But in the wide wholesome spaces of the world, and
beneath the clean stars, death seems not undesirable.  A country life gives one the pleasant
sense of kinship with the earth. It is no longer an offence to know oneself of the earth earthy.
I was so much engaged in the love and study of things whose life was brief that the thought
of death became natural.  I saw constantly in flowers and birds, and domestic creatures, the
little round of life completed and relinquished without regret.  I saw also how the aged peasant
gathered up his feet and died, like a tired child falling asleep at the close of a long day.
Death is in reality no more terrible than birth; but it is only the natural man who can so
conceive it.  He who lives in constant kinship with the earth will go to his rest on the earth's
bosom without repugnance.  I knew very well the place where I should be buried; it was beneath
a clean turf kept sweet by mountain winds; and the place seemed desirable.  Having come back
by degrees to a life of entire kinship with the earth, having shared the seasons and the storms,
it seemed but the final seal set upon this kinship, that I should dissolve quietly into the
elements of things, to find perhaps my resurrection in the eternally renewed life of Nature.

Neighbourship meant also for me kinship, with every kind of life around me, and some friendly
association with my fellow-men.  The creatures we call dumb have a sure way of talking to us,
if we will overcome their shyness and give them a chance.  Moreover their habits, their method
of life, their thoughts, are in themselves profoundly interesting.  I seemed to have discovered
a new universe when I first took to bee-culture.  The geometry of the heavens is not more astonishing
than the geometry of the beehive, nor is the architecture of the finest city built by man more
intricate and masterly.  Here, as in all things, we are deceived by bulk, counting a thing
great merely because it is big; but if it come to deducing an Invisible Mind in the universe
from the things that are visible, I would as soon base my argument on what goes on in a bee's
brain, as on the harmonies of law manifested in the solar system.  I believe we greatly err
in underrating other forms of life than our own.  The Hindu, who acknowledges a mystic sacredness
in all forms of life, comes nearer the truth.  Life for life, judged by proportion, plan, symmetry,
delicacy of design and beauty of adjustment, man is a creature not a whit more wonderful than
many forms of life which he crushes with a careless foot.  The creature we call dumb is not
dumb to its mates, and it is very likely our human modes of communication appear as absurd
to the dog or horse as theirs do to us. We know what we think of the so-called dumb creatures;
it might be a humbling surprise if we could know what the dumb creature thinks of us. The satire
would not be upon one side, be sure of it.

To the townsman the simple dwellers on the soil seem almost as incapable of intercourse as
the creatures of the field and pasture. Because they do not know the kind of things the townsman
knows, they are supposed to know nothing.  I have already said enough to show how absurd and
insolent is this assumption.  My neighbours were few, and simple-minded; but they possessed
many kinds of skill necessary to their life, they had wisdom and virtue, and upon the whole
a kind of fundamental dignity of nature.  They were as shy as woodland creatures to a stranger's
voice; they were highly sensitive to the mere shadow of a slight, and both suspicious and resentful
of patronage; but they met trust with trust, and where they gave their trust they gave their
full loyalty of friendship.  In my youth, as I have said elsewhere, I often passed a whole
day in a forest.  I would choose some solitary glade, where my intrusion was audibly resented
by the unseen creatures of the wood, who fled before me; but when an hour had passed, and the
signal had run through the forest that I meant no harm, those scattered and astonished creatures
reassembled.  The whole life of the wood then went on before my eyes; the birds sang their
best for me, the squirrel performed his innocent gymnastics with an eye to my applause, the
very snake moved less shyly through the grass, as though the word had gone forth that I was
a guest, who must be entertained and made to feel at home.  This experience often recurred
to me in my early days at Thornthwaite.  It was some time before I was admitted to the free-masonry
of the scanty social life around me; when at last I had paid my footing I found that here also
was a commonwealth; here also might be found upon a narrow scale, but in authentic forms,

      Piety and fear,
  Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
  Degrees, observances, customs, and laws.

CHAPTER XI

THE WOUNDS OF A FRIEND

Those who have been friendly enough to follow me so far in my little story will scarcely push
their friendship so far that they will refrain from criticism upon myself and my doings.  On
one point, viz. the social morality of my conduct, I am so sure of criticism that I will anticipate
it with self-criticism.  Had I the moral right to desert the city, and to ignore the social
obligations of the city, in order to find a life that was more pleasurable to myself?  A city
which presents a depressing variety of social needs can hardly afford to spare any good citizen,
however humble, who is capable of social service, and for such a citizen to contract himself
out of his obligations is very like skulking.  I confess that this consideration occasioned
me some uneasiness, and the questions which it raised have been treated with such admirable
lucidity by a friend of mine, who still resides in London, that I will let him put the case
against me.

The friend of whom I speak belongs to that class which may be roughly described as Earnest
Good People.  With very small means, and not much spare time at his disposal, he is nevertheless
constantly engaged in what is called the work of Social Amelioration.  The problems of city
squalor, vice, and ignorance haunt him like a nightmare.  When a very young man he made a voyage
of discovery among the submerged tenth; got acquainted with tramps, night strollers, and wastrels
on the Thames Embankment; slept in doss-houses and Salvation Army shelters; tried his hand
on experimental philanthropy among the slums; and was driven half-frantic by what he saw. 
He has the makings of a saint in him; of a Francis of Assisi, of a Father Damien.  He teaches
in night-schools, conducts Penny Banks, and is grateful to any one who will introduce him to
a desperate social enterprise which no one else will attempt.  The first business of life,
he is fond of saying, is not to get good, but to do good.  Of pleasure, in the usual sense
of the term, he knows nothing, and would grudge the expenditure of a sixpence upon himself
as long as he knew a cadger or a decayed washerwoman who seemed to have a better claim to it.
London is for him not a home, but a battlefield, and his spirit is the spirit of the soldier
who dare not forsake his post.

Many years ago, when I was going for my summer holiday, he wrote me a reproachful poem, from
which I quote a part, because it is the best index to his own character and the most lucid
exposition of his own attitude to life which I can recall:

  The roar of the streets at their loudest
    Rises and falls like a tune;
  Midday in the heart of London,
    Midway in the month of June.

  And blue at the end of a valley
    I see the ocean gleam,
  And a voice like falling water
    Speaks to me thro' a dream.

  It calls, and it bids me follow;
    Ah, how the worn nerves thrill
  At the vision of those green pastures
    And waters running still!

  But I dare not move nor follow,
    For out of the quivering heat
  Another vision arises
    And darkens at my feet--

  White faces worn with the fever
    That crouches evermore
  In the court and alley, and seizes
    The poor man at his door,

  Float up in my dream and call me,
    And cry, If Christ were here
  He had not left us to perish
    In the fever-heat of the year!

  God knows how I yearn for the mountains
    And the river that runs between!
  Ah, well, I can wait--and the pastures
    Of heaven are always green.

No one will question the nobility of sentiment in these simple lines, and they are the genuine
expression of the man.  In his case, however slight may be his claim to be called a poet, that
hardest test of the poet is fulfilled:--

  The gods exact for song
  To become what we sing.

It will be imagined that a man of this order would view my retreat from London with disfavour.
He thought me guilty of a kind of social perfidy.  No doubt the Earnest Good People, for whom
I have the greatest reverence, will agree in the same verdict.  A letter received during the
last few days from my friend puts the case with such force, and yet with such good-feeling,
that I will transcribe a part of it.

'I confess,' he writes, 'that the pleasures of life among the mountains leaves me cold.  It
is not that I am incapable of the same kind of pleasure, but, as you know, I have other ideas
concerning the uses of life.  I cannot enjoy sunsets while men and women are starving.  The
thought of all the misery of life for multitudes would, as Rossetti puts it, "make a goblin
of the sun."  You used to be very eloquent against good men who lived only for their own pleasure;
are not you yourself living in the same way?  I have heard you declaim against the gross selfishness
of Goethe's aim in life--"to build the pyramid of his own intellectual culture"; are not you,
in your own way, pursuing the same ideal?  I have heard you say that nothing so belittled Goethe
in your judgment as the fact that he was destitute of patriotism; he dwelt at ease among his
books, while his country perished and felt no pang; and you live your joyous life among the
hills, and have forgotten the Golgothas on which the poor of London endure their unpitied martyrdom.
You are doing good to yourself, no doubt; but is it not a better thing to be doing good to
others?  I marvel that you can sleep at peace amid the wailing of the world.  I cannot, and
I thank God I cannot.

'What you do not seem to realise is that all our acts must be judged not only from the personal,
but from the collective standpoint. Suppose all men followed your example, what would happen?
Why, cities would soon become the mere refuse-heaps of the unfit.  The drudges would remain,
the captains of industry would be gone.  There would be no leaven of higher intelligence left,
no standard of manners, nothing that could set the rhythm of life.  This is too much the case
already. The merchant, the writer, the man of wealth and culture, live as far as they can from
the struggling crowd.  You would extend the process, and make it possible for the clerk as
well as the merchant.  If your new gospel of a return to Nature succeeds, we shall soon see
the universal exodus of the best intellectual and physical units of the community. But you
forget that some millions will remain behind, who cannot flee. Have you no obligations to these?

'Besides this, you do not seem to perceive that the ultimate drift of the new gospel is toward
anarchy.  The return to nature is practically a return to barbarism.  You would have all men
content so long as they grew enough potatoes for their daily needs.  You would have England
return to the conditions of the Saxon heptarchy.  Each man would squat upon his clearing in
the forest, ignobly independent, brutally content. There would be no longer that struggle for
life which develops capacity, that urging onward of the flood of life which cuts for itself
new channels, that passion for betterment which means progress.  You save yourself from the
collisions of life; but it is in such collisions that the finest fires are struck out of the
heart of humanity.  Again, I say, any course of action must be judged by its collective effect
before it can be rightly understood.  It is not the individual that counts, but the race. 
A good for the individual is not permissible unless it is a good also for the race.  I do not
admit that your new way of life is an entire good for you, for I believe you must in time suffer
from your isolation; but even if I did admit it, I should deny your right to it, if in its
large effects it means an ill for the race. Would you venture to say that the race would profit
by it if your example were largely imitated?  I think you dare not say so much, for you must
be aware that the general desertion of cities would mean the decay of commerce and of the arts,
the arrest of progress, and national disintegration.  And if your own personal example would
bear only evil fruit were it elevated to a law of life, it stands condemned.

'For my own part, I am where you left me.  I am in the same rooms--dull, stuffy, inconvenient--you
know all about them.  I breathe quantities of bad air every day, and see a hundred things that
distress me.  I go three nights a week to the room in Lucraft's Row; struggle with the young
barbarians of the slums, and am content if I see but a few signs of order evolving themselves
out of chaos.  A week ago I was knocked down by a ruffian, who came next day to apologise on
the three-fold ground that he was drunk, that he did not know it was me he struck, and that
if he had known he never would have done it.  My ruffian was very penitent.  He has since signed
the pledge and is my firm friend.  I chased him out of a public-house last night, and made
him come home to my lodgings with me, where I gave him coffee, and sang songs to him.  He followed
all my movements with the big wistful eyes of a dog.  There were tears in those eyes when he
bade me good-night. He brushed them away with a dirty hand, and said, "I know I can keep straight
now, sir, because you are my pal, and I ain't a-going against the wishes of my pal!"  This
morning he left a pineapple at the door for me--he is a coster, and pineapples are cheap just
now.  I felt more pleasure than I can say; I could have sung over my work all day, so glad
was I.  My dear fellow, don't think I speak pharisaically--you know me too well; but I do believe
I got more genuine pleasure out of my experience with this rough fellow than you will ever
get out of your sunsets.  Lucraft's Row is a dull place enough, but when a ray of light does
shine into it, it brings with it more than common joy.

'My objection to your new mode of life is that it is entirely self-centred.  There is no projection
of yourself into other lives. You are contributing nothing to the common stock of moral effort.
You are simply marooned.  It alters nothing that you have marooned yourself under conditions
that please and content you.  I think that if I were marooned upon the fairest island of the
Southern Seas, where I had but to bask in the sunshine and stretch out my hand to find delightful
food, there would be still something in my lot which I should find intolerable.  I should spend
my days upon the island's loftiest crag, watching for a sail.  The thought of a thousand ships
not far away, rushing round the globe, with throb of piston, crack of cordage, strain of timber,
buffeting of waves, and shouting crews, would drive me distracted.  What to me were blue skies
and soft winds when I might be sharer in this elemental strife?  How should I covet, in all
this adorable and detested beauty of my solitary isle, the grey skies that looked on human
effort, the violent wind, the roaring waves, the muscles cracking at the capstan, the strong
exhilaration of peril, effort, conflict, and the glory of hourly contiguity with death!  It
was so Ulysses felt:

  How dull it is to pause, to make an end,
  To rust unburnished, not to shine in use.

It was so he resolved

  To follow knowledge like a sinking star,
        *      *      *      *      *
  To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.

You will not question that the sentiment is manly.  Is there not then something that is unmanly
in the opposite sentiment?  Or, to be plain, my friend, is it not lack of courage which has
driven you from us, lack of heroic temper, lack of that divine and primitive instinct which
takes a "frolic welcome" in the "thunder and the sunshine," in the conflict and the stress of life?

'I believe that we are bound to be the losers by any wilful separation from our kind.  This
was the case with the mediaeval monks and ascetics; they lost far more than they gained from
their separation from the common life of the people.  It is the same still with very rich folk
who are able to evade the harsh conscription of life; in evading the conscription of life they
invariably deteriorate in physical and mental fibre.  I can conceive nothing more ruinous to
a young man than that he should have just enough money to make the toil for bread unnecessary.
More lives have been spoiled by competence than by poverty; indeed, I doubt whether poverty
has any effect at all upon a strong character, except as a stimulus to exertion.  Life being
what it is, we should take it as we find it: we gain nothing by going out of our way to find
an easier path.  The beaten road is safest.  The man who boldly says, "Let me know the fulness
of life; let me taste all that it has to present of vicissitude, joy, sorrow, labour, struggle;
let me know all that common people endure, and endure with them; let me be no exception to
the common rule, enjoy no special privilege, ask for no immunity from things harsh and disagreeable"--the
man who thinks and acts thus is the man who gets the best and most out of life.  But you, my
friend, have simply copied the old monks in the arrangement of your life.  There is nothing
novel in your action, though just now your egoism is gratified by the sense of novelty and
originality.  You have simply gone out of the world to escape the evil of the world.  You have
bought yourself out of the conscription of life.  You have yet to answer me one question: are
you the better for it?  That question cannot be answered in a day.  Ten years hence you will
be able to tell me something about it, and I shall be much surprised if you do not then report
more of loss than gain.  No man ever yet held aloof from his kind without paying the price
in narrower sympathies, a narrower brain, and a narrower heart.  The eternal spirit of Progress
which works throughout the universe never fails to punish the deserter, and the most common
punishment is atrophy.  Not to submit to the process of evolution is to fall down the long
slope of degeneracy.

'You do not need to be told that the entire history of nations confirms this rule.  The greatest
nations are those which have found life most difficult, and they have thriven on their difficulties.
The soft climate, which reduces toil to a minimum, invariably means the enervated race.  Under
the harsh skies of Britain a great race has been trained to great exploits; but what part have
the islands of the South Pacific ever played in human history?  Give man a difficulty to overcome,
and he at once puts forth his strength; difficulty is his spiritual gymnasium.  Impose on him
no need of exertion, and he will rot out, just as the races of the South Pacific are rotting
out.  I would measure the future of a man, or of a nation, by this simple test; do they habitually
choose the easier or the harder path for themselves? The nation that chooses the hard path,
that is not afraid of the burden of empire, that glories in the strife for primacy and is not
afraid to pay the price of primacy in incredible exertion, in blood and sacrifice, is the nation
that shall possess the earth.  And is it not so with men?  Here, again, I press home the need
for considering one's actions in their collective aspect.  Your course of life is easily imitable:
would you have it imitated?  There are thousands of men in London who could readily retire
into a peaceful life to-morrow, on terms more favourable than yours.  Every man possessed of
a hundred pounds a year could do it.  Yet there are plenty of old men, with ample fortunes,
who never dream of doing it.  They stick to their posts and they die at them.  And it is by
such men that the great machinery of social life, of commerce, of national progress is kept going.

'You would say, perhaps, that they are simply sacrificing the finer pleasures of life to the
fanaticism of work; ah, but they are also sacrificing them for the good of the community. 
If the great surgeon or physician bolted from his duties the moment he had acquired money enough
to buy a cottage, you would say he had no right to rob mankind of his skill and service to
please himself.  Have you that right?  And if the whole nation acted in this spirit, how long
would the nation hold its place of power and influence?  In less than a century we should be
as the Hottentots.  We should be driven out before the advance of more energetic races, just
as the Hottentots; who once possessed Southern Europe and Egypt, have been forced back into
the African wilderness, where they live a life that is content with the gratification of the
most primitive, the most bestial, wants.  It is no excuse to say that the action of one man
can have but little influence upon the trend of life in a whole nation.  The merest unit in
the sum, the cipher even, has power to change the total.  The strength of wisdom in the majority
of a nation may be more than sufficient to-day to counteract the folly of the unit; but there
is always the chance that the folly of the individual may in time prevail against the experience
of the wise, and pervert the nation.  At all events, we ought to consider such possibilities
before we hold ourselves free to do as we please in contempt of general custom.

'Do not be angry with me when I say that to me your flight from London appears only an illustration
of that cowardice about life which is so common to-day.  Men are very much afraid of life to-day;
afraid of its responsibilities and duties; afraid of marriage and the burden of children; and
not alone for the old are there fears in the way, but even the young men faint and grow weary.

'I can understand Stevenson flying to the South Seas; it was part of his prolonged duel with
death.  But his heart was in the Highlands, and could he have chosen, his feet would have trodden
to old age the grey streets of Edinburgh.  Your flight is altogether different.  You have no
real excuse in ill-health.  You have simply fallen sick with a distaste for cities.  You have
had a bad dream, and you are frightened. I love you still; I count you friend still; but I
cannot call you brave.

'O my friend, if I have said anything that sounds unfriendly, do not believe it of me; do not
doubt that I love you.  I think I should not have written thus but that in your last letter
you expressed pity for me, and that stung me, I confess.  And so I retort, you see, by pitying
you, which is not admirable in me.  Therefore let me say, if you care still to please me, do
not, in any further letters you may write, ever express the least pity for me.  Quite honestly
I say I do not need pity, for I am perfectly happy.  In giving all the time and money I can
spare to the poor in Lucraft's Row, I have really renounced nothing; or, if I have, I am so
unconscious of sacrifice that I can only say with Browning:

  Renounce joy for thy fellow's sake?
  That's joy beyond joy!

There are half a dozen ragged boys who love me: there are twenty more who will do so in time;
and there is my drunken friend with the dog's eyes, who looks to me to save him from the pit;
what more can I ask? Fog and mire, grime and drudgery, these never trouble me, because I see
Lucraft's Row, lit with a star, waiting for me at the end of every day. And the star is growing
bigger and brighter, for it shines over a tiny obscure Bethlehem where the Soul is getting
itself born in a few humble hearts.  To be permitted to see this miracle, to assist in this
incarnation of the Soul of the People, is its own exceeding great reward; and I may be envied,
but never pitied.'

So ran the letter of my friend, and as I transcribe it I feel anew that it is an indictment
not to be easily set aside.  I must think over what I can reply to it.  It seems as though
if he be right in his mode of life I must be wrong in mine; and yet may we not both be right?
Are we not seeing life from different angles?

Yes, I must have time for thought before I can reply to such a letter.

CHAPTER XII

AM I RIGHT?

I have given myself a week to think over the letter of my friend, and I am now able to perceive
that it is built upon a number of most ingenious fallacies.  The chief fallacy appears to be
this--that he insists that the race must always count for more than the individual, and that
the individual must fall in line and step with the average conventions of the race at the expense
of his own well-being, or be judged a deserter and a recreant.

It is hardly necessary to point out that no doctrine could be more hostile to collective progress,
because progress is not a collective movement, but the movement of great individuals who drag
the race after them.  I do not recollect a single human reform that has been spontaneously
generated in the heart of society itself; it has always had its beginnings in the hearts of
individuals.  Thus the Reformation is practically Martin Luther, the Evangelical revival is
Wesley, the Oxford Movement is Newman, Free Trade is Cobden, and so on through a hundred regenerations
of thought, morals, and politics.  'The world being what it is, we must take it as we find
it,' is a note of quiet desperation.  It is precisely because the Providence of History has
again and again raised up men who were incapable of taking the world as they found it, that
regenerations and reformations of society have occurred at all.  Society never moves forward
except when it is goaded by the spirit of individual genius.  So far as we can trace the history
of civilisation, and thanks to modern research we have about ten thousand years to go by, civilisation
is a succession of waves, each flowing a little higher than its predecessor, with an ebb between
each. At what point is the ebb checked, at what point does the fuller wave begin to flow? 
Always with the advent of individual genius.  A great man rises who founds a dynasty; a great
thinker, who publishes new truths; a great lawgiver or statesman, who establishes a new social
system.  New worlds need a Columbus, and the social Columbus is always a man with sufficient
daring to stand by original convictions. Therefore I say that human progress is only made possible
by not taking the world as we find it; and that he is the best friend of collective progress
who is the most obedient not to collective convention, but to individual insight.

I observe that my friend does not live in the spirit of his own axiom: else, why should he
trouble himself over the inhabitants of Lucraft's Row?  He is certainly not taking the world
as he finds it when he devotes his hours of leisure to impart the elements of decency to gutter-snipes,
and save drunkards from the pit.  He is as much an individualist as I, only his individualism
expresses itself in a different way; which confirms my original conjecture that we may be equally
right in our own mode of life.  Nor, by his own confession, does he really sacrifice his inclinations
in his mode of life; he gratifies his sense of altruism in Lucraft's Row, and I my love of
Nature in the solitude of lonely hills.  The objects which give men pleasure may be so diverse
that what is a source of joy to one man may be an equal source of misery to another.  There
can be no doubt that many of the martyrs and ascetics were honestly enamoured of pain and whatever
credit they deserve for sacrifice, they pleased themselves by renouncing the world, as others
by enjoying it; and all that can be said on the subject is that each pleased himself in his
own way.

Thoreau's defence when he was accused of not doing good was that it did not agree with his
constitution; and although the defence sounds like a piece of amusing cynicism, it was in reality
a plea entirely just.  The common fault of the Good Earnest People, as of most people, is that
they can only conceive of doing good after a pattern which is congenial to themselves.  But
their mode of doing good, while it suits themselves admirably, may not suit every constitution,
and people of a quite different mental constitution may be quite as good as themselves, although
it is after a very different pattern.  Thoreau did a vast amount of good by showing men, in
his own example, that the simplest kind of life was compatible with the highest intellectual
aims; would he, in the long-run, have served the world half as well had he forced himself to
live amid the squalor of a New York slum?  Are not we so much the wiser and stronger by the
lessons taught in the hut beside Walden Pond, that it would be the poorest compensation for
their loss to know that Thoreau by dint of effort made himself a fairly efficient city missionary,
or pleased the pundits of a Charity Organisation Society?  Or to take a yet more forcible example
of my meaning: Hood wrote The Song of the Shirt, and Wordsworth The Ode on Intimations of Immortality;
would either have gained by an exchange of lot?  The one poem could only have been written
by a man who knew 'the tragic heart of towns,' and the other by the man who knew the tranquil
heart of Nature; but Hood, transported to Grasmere, would have written nothing, and Wordsworth
in Fleet Street is unthinkable.  As it was, Destiny took the matter in hand, and having men
to work upon whose first principle of life was to fulfil and not to violate the instincts of
their own nature, succeeded in producing two poets who served mankind each in a way not possible
to the other.

I suspect there is a great deal of cant to be cleared out of the mind before we can become
equitable judges of what doing good really means. I define doing good as the fulfilment of
our best instincts and faculties for the best use of mankind; but I do not expect that the
Good Earnest People will accept this definition.  They would find it much too catholic, simply
because they have learned to attach a specialised meaning to the phrase 'doing good,' which
limits it to some form of active philanthropy.  If they would but allow a wider vision of life
to pass before the eye, they would see that there are many ways of doing good besides those
which satisfy their own ideals.  It is a singular thing that men find it very difficult to
live lives of charity without cherishing uncharitable tempers towards those who do not live
precisely as they themselves do.  For instance, the busy philanthropist, nobly eager to bring
a little happiness into the grey lives of the disinherited, often has the poorest opinion of
artists and novelists, who appear to him to live useless lives.  But when Turner paints a picture
like the Fighting Temeraire Towed to Her Last Berth, which is destined to stir generous thoughts
in multitudes of hearts long after his death: or when Scott writes novels which have increased
the sum of human happiness for a century, is not each doing good of the rarest, highest, and
most enduring kind?  The fulfilment of one's best instincts and faculties, for the best use
of mankind, is not only the completest, but also the only available form of philanthropy. 
Since Nature has chosen to endow us with diverse faculties, our service of mankind must be
diverse too.  In a word, doing good is a much larger business than the ordinary philanthropist
imagines; it has many branches and a thousand forms; and they are not always doing the most
who seem the busiest, nor do those accomplish most in the alleviation of human misery whose
contact with it is the closest.

During the last year of my life in London I came into contact with a brilliant young Oxford
man, who had manifest talents for oratory, leadership, and literature.  He was in search of
a career, and being a youth of quick sympathies and very generous instincts, he was soon caught
in the tide of a certain social movement, whose chief aim was to induce persons of culture
to live among the very poorest of the poor. The leader of this movement was a man of beautifully
unselfish temper, but of no striking intellectual gifts; apart from a certain originality of
character, which was the fruit of this unselfish temper, he was quite commonplace in mind,
and could have aspired to no higher rank in life than an honourable place among the inferior
clergy.  He attracted this brilliant youth, however; a youth who had been president of the
Oxford Union, and had taken a double first in classics, for whom distinction in life seemed
inevitable.  The end was that his convert joined what was really a lay order of social and
religious service.  He lived among the slums of Holborn, devoted himself to the instruction
of the children of the gutter, kept the accounts of coal and blanket clubs, and accepted cheerfully
all the drudgery of philanthropy among the poor.  Most people, I am quite aware, will say that
this is a very noble example of renunciation; so it is, and as such I can admire it. But is
there nothing else to be considered?  May not the sociologist ask whether a man is serving
society in the best way by refusing to use his best gifts in the only direction in which they
could have full play?  For many years this youth had trained himself for a particular part
in life which few could fill; he might have influenced the councils of his nation by his powers
of debate, the mind of his nation by his gift of literature; he should have stood before kings
and spoken to scholars; yet all these high utilities were extinguished in order that he might
do something which a man with only a tenth part of his gifts might have done quite as well.
Think of the picture; a scholar who never opens a book, an orator who addresses only costers
and work-girls, a writer who writes nothing, a leader of men who exerts no public influence;
and what is this wilful destruction of high faculties but social waste and robbery?  No doubt
he is doing good; but would not the good he might have done have been far wider, had he followed
the line of his natural gifts, and occupied the place in life for which those gifts obviously
fitted him?

This story is a pertinent example of the cant of Doing Good.  By all means let those live among
the poor and work for their betterment who have a distinct vocation for the task; but it is
not a vocation for all.  I object to the spectacle of a late president of the Oxford Union
giving up his life to the management of coal and blanket clubs, just as I object to the spectacle
of a thorough-bred racehorse harnessed to a dray.  It is a waste of power.  But the Good Earnest
People never see this side of things, because they are afflicted with narrowness of vision.
They admit no definition of doing good but their own.  They cannot see that the man who passes
from a distinguished University career to a distinguished public life may do more for the poor
by his pen, by his power of awakening sympathy, by the opportunity that may be his to obtain
the reversal of unjust laws or the establishment of good laws, than he ever could have done
by living in a slum as the friend and helper of a small group of needy men and women.  Decisive
victories are won more often by lateral movements than by frontal attacks.  The wave of force
which travels on a circle may arrive with more thrilling impact on a point of contact than
that which travels on a horizontal line.  Society is best served after all by the fullest development
of our best faculties; and whether we check this development from pious or selfish motives,
the result is still the same; we have robbed society of its profit by us, which is the worst
kind of evil which we can inflict on the community.

If this statement of social obligation is admitted as correct, most of my friend's strictures
on my conduct dissolve into mere harmless rhetoric.  For instance, he says I have 'marooned'
myself, and goes on to draw a fancy picture of a South Sea Islander, content with laziness
and sunshine, intimating that this is the kind of life which I have chosen.  On the contrary
my life is what most city men would call a hard life.  I work hard every day, the only difference
between my work and theirs being that my work is natural, wholesome, and pleasant, while theirs
is drudgery.  In what am I more selfish than the average citizen, who after all is doing just
what I am doing, viz. working for his living?  My friend would have me believe that the man
who toils in cities does so from exalted motives.  He is bearing the weight of empire, assisting
in the growth of British commerce, and generally serving the cause of national progress, while
I sit in ignoble independence on my own potato patch.  I have known a good many men engaged
in the lower ranks of commerce, but I have yet to meet one who is influenced in the least by
these highly-coloured motives and ideals. They are intent on earning their living, no more.
Their interest in commerce is precisely confined to what they can get out of it.  They bear
just as little of the burden of the Empire as the tax-gatherer will permit them.  There is
not one of them who would not object with vigour to take a single shilling less per week for
the sake of progress, or any cause that might arrogate that title.  Besides, it is surely a
piece of undiluted Cockney egoism to suppose that the only persons who do their duty by the
Empire are Londoners.  We are still an agricultural country, and there are some millions of
people who live upon the land.  They do some kind of work, which one may suppose is of some
utility and value to the nation; why should their kind of work be despised?  They also pay
taxes, give an equivalent of labour for their keep, rear children, educate them, and send them
out to be of some service to the State; what does the dweller in cities do more than these?
If I were disposed to argue the question, I should contend that the man who gets a bushel of
corn or a sack of good potatoes out of the land has added a more real asset to the wealth of
the community, and therefore deserves more praise from the commonwealth, than all the tribe
of stockbrokers since the world began; for these lords of wealth, who reign supreme in cities,
produce nothing.  But since my friend is fond of quoting Browning, I also will quote him, and
let the poet say in the flash of three lines what the dialectician would need a page to say:

  All service ranks the same with God,--
  God's puppets, best and worst,
  Are we: there is no last nor first,

Of course there is no disputing the general truth of the statement that nations are developed
by the call made upon their energies by difficulty, and their power of response to that call.
But why should such a statement be construed into a reproach on my mode of life?  If my friend,
who is probably sitting in a comfortable office at this moment, adding up figures which he
could do almost with his eyes shut, would condescend to visit my potato patch, he would find
call enough upon his energy.  I have almost broken my back, and certainly blistered my hands,
for the last four hours in hoeing my potato trenches into good level lines, and I have still
an hour's work at weeding to do before I can satisfy myself that I have earned my dinner. 
I can assure him that bread-fruit does not grow on my land, nor am I in danger of being corrupted
by a too easy means of subsistence.  The worst crime that can be alleged against me is that
I have changed my occupation in life, but I am very far from being unoccupied.  The occupation
which I now follow is the most ancient and most honourable in the world; I believe that Adam
followed it.  Is it not a curious irony upon civilisation, that it has so filled the mind with
artificial estimates of work, that a form of work which is still practised by the great majority
of the world's inhabitants is scarcely regarded as work at all by the insolent minority of
mankind who happen to live in cities?  But I have long observed that there is a universal tendency
in men only to regard as work the peculiar sort of work which they themselves do; and so the
artisan supposes he is the only genuine 'working man,' and the shopkeeper thinks the life of
the professional man a piece of organised idleness, and the tradition appears ineradicable
that all the clergy, from bishops downwards, never work at all because they do not sit in offices.
It is of a piece with the theory of 'doing good'; for all men are bigots when they attempt
to measure the universal life of men by their own little egoistic standards.

As to that imposing axiom, that all our actions must be measured by their collective effects,
I heartily agree to it, because it is precisely here that I think my case is strongest.  I
do not, of course, invite all men to follow my example by returning to what my friend calls
'barbarism,' and there is so little danger of any such catastrophe that it is not worth while
discussing it.  But if any considerable number of men should think my example good, I would
not deter them from following it, because I believe that no greater service could be done to
society than to multiply the number of individuals who prefer a simple to an artificial existence,
who are willing to live lives of honest labour and entire contentment, who will care not at
all for riches, but will spend their utmost care upon their virtues, who will count 'self-possession,'
the best of all possessions, and the power of living in God's world in cheerful happiness and
modest usefulness the real programme of life which God has set before all His children, and
which alone is worth our hope and struggle.  The basis of all good citizenship is physical
and moral health.  Health is really wholeness, and so we get the word holiness, for all these
words are products of the same idea.  What service to the race can be greater, both in its
present value and its ultimate effect, than to produce men and women both physically and morally
whole?  It is no doubt a duty to do all we can to help the unfit, and assist the infirm; but
it is better wisdom and a truer duty to produce the fit and the whole.  In the degree that
I am better equipped as a man, I am better equipped as a member of the commonwealth.  All questions
of doing good are secondary to the question of being good; and to be good is but a synonym
of moral wholeness.  If a nation can succeed in producing efficient human creatures, efficient
first of all in body, because that is the basis of all efficiency of mind, and will, and energy,
there will be no question of efficient citizenship.  As for me, I have found the means of a
more efficient manhood by a return to a simple and a natural life; and therefore I am quite
willing to submit my action to the test of collective example, believing that the more widely
it is imitated, the better will it be for the happiness and well-being of my nation, and of
the world.

The best way of doing good that I can devise is to make myself an efficient member of society;
and it is obvious that if every man did this there would be very little work for the professional
philanthropist.  It is not help that men need most, but opportunity. Philanthropy is, for the
most part, engaged in patching up the sick anaemic body of society; which is equivalent to
minimising the distress of ill-health without producing good health.  The wise physician knows
very well that no amount of medicine will do much for the anaemic child; what the child wants
is room to grow.

To create the best persons is to accomplish a service for society which is durable, and therefore
is the only real good.  I claim that this is what I have tried to do in my own case, and in
no other way could I discharge my obligation to society so well.  Economically considered I
am now a profitable asset to society.  I do a man's work every day, and I earn my keep.  When
the time comes for my children to go out into life they will take with them good thews and
muscles, sound bodies, and well-furnished minds.  I imagine that this is about as good a contribution
to the cause of Progress, the service of Commerce, and the maintenance of Empire, as any one
man can make.

CHAPTER XIII

THE CITY OF THE FUTURE

After four years' experiment in Quest of the Simple Life I am in a position to state certain
conclusions, which are sufficiently authoritative with me to suggest that they may have some
weight with my readers.  These conclusions I will briefly recapitulate.

The chief discovery which I have made is that man may lead a perfectly honourable, sufficing,
and even joyous existence upon a very small income.  Money plays a part in human existence
much less important than we suppose.  The best boon that money can bestow upon us is independence.
How much money do we need to secure independence?  That must depend on the nature of our wants.
Becky Sharp thought that virtue might be possible on 5000 pounds a year; and, apart from the
question of whether money has anything to do with virtue at all, it is obvious that she put
her figure absurdly high.  Most of us put the figure at which independence may be purchased
too high.  If our idea of independence is the possession of an income that allows extravagance,
if life would be intolerable to us without the gratification of many artificial wants, if our
notion of a lodge in the wilderness is the

        Cottage, with a double coach-house,
  The pride that apes humility,

at which Coleridge sneered, then only a very few of us can ever hope for our emancipation.
The first step toward independence is the limitation of our wants.  We must be fed, clothed,
and lodged in such a way that a self-respecting life is possible to us; when we have ascertained
the figure at which this ideal can be realised, we have ascertained the price of independence.

My experiment I regard as successful, but there are two features in it which diminish its general
application.  One is that I took with me into my solitude certain tastes and aptitudes, which
I may claim without the least egoism to be not altogether common.  I had an intense love of
Nature, a delight in physical exertion, and a vital interest in literature.  I was thus provided
with resources in myself.  It would be the height of folly for a person wholly destitute of
these aptitudes to venture upon such a life as mine.  He would find the country unutterably
wearisome, its pursuits a detestable form of drudgery, and the unoccupied hours of his life
tedious beyond expression.

In reconsidering what I have written I perceive that unconsciously I have chronicled only the
pleasant episodes of my existence.  There is another picture that might be painted of mountains
clothed in cloud, roads deep in mire, work done under drenching rains, early darkness, lack
of neighbourship, isolation and monotony, a life separated by continents of silence from all
the eager movement of the world.  There are two pictures of the country, equally true; the
country of Corot, idyllic, lovely, full of soft light and graceful form; the country of Millet,
austere, harsh, bleak, impressive only by a certain gravity and grand severity.  We all imagine
that we could live in, and we all desire, the country of Corot.  But could we live in the country
of Millet?  I confess that I could not have done so without resources in myself.  It required
a genuine pleasure in hard physical exercise to get through the duties of the day, and a genuine
interest in literature to supply the place of those artificial forms of pleasure which relieve
the tedium of towns.  I do not know what I should have done without books in the long winter
evenings.  Nowhere is a 'city of the mind,' into which one can retire, so necessary as in the
country.  There is also needed an enduring and genuine delight in Nature and outdoor occupations,
which creates its own sunshine under dreary skies.  The mere sentiment of rusticity, created
in the townsman's mind by pictures and novels, soon dissolves before the realities of a genuine
country life.  It is Millet, not Corot, who is the most frequent comrade of the man who looks
for months together on the same expanse of fields, and moves upon the same unchanging round
of labour.  Therefore it is necessary to insist that no error could be greater than for a man
with no real aptitude for a solitary life, and no resources of intellectual pleasure in himself,
to attempt such an experiment as mine.  He would weary of it in a month, and would flee, like
a child afraid of the darkness, back to gaslit streets again, with reviling on his lips and
bitter anger in his heart.

It must also be remembered that I did not go into the country with the intention of deriving
my livelihood from the soil.  My sources of income were separate from my mode of life; and
although my income was at the best very small, yet it was sufficient to secure me ease of mind.
I did indeed discover that the expenses of a simple life were slight, and that these expenses
might be kept low by a moderate degree of industry in rural pursuits, but I never imagined
that I could live altogether by the soil.  I may frankly confess that while I believe it to
be perfectly possible for a strong and handy man, accustomed to agricultural pursuits, to earn
a living from the soil, my example has little to teach in this direction.  The cry of 'Back
to the Land' will be meaningless until general ownership in the land is made possible. It is
the burden of rent, often a cruel and unjust rent, that has driven men from the land.  Not
far from me at Thornthwaite there resided a man and his wife who were among the most frugal
and industrious persons I have ever met, yet they found it absolutely impossible to earn a
living from the land simply because the conditions of their tenure were unreasonable.  For
thirteen acres of land, with a small farm-house and farm-buildings, they paid eighty pounds
per annum, with an additional charge of thirty shillings a year for the right of a boat upon
the lake.  The most that they could do with this small holding was to graze four cows, and
in a good season they got nearly enough hay to feed their cattle during the winter months;
but with all the pinching in the world they went steadily behind at the rate of about forty
pounds per annum.  This is a concrete example of the difficulties of the small farmer, and
it is sufficient to show how vain is the hope of any return to the land as long as rents are
maintained at their present level.  Were it possible for an English government to offer free
grants of land as the Canadian government does, or even to fix rents and provide for the purchase
of land as is the case in Ireland, multitudes of able-bodied men, wearied with the fierce struggle
for bread in cities, would avail themselves of the opportunity; but under the present conditions
of farm-tenure those who know the country best, know that, except in a very few districts,
it is next to impossible to live by the land. 

The purpose was thrilled of another imperialist-- a large, the reprobate, has clothe in modern, this
rags, my digit eager advantages that were tied with bits would begotten of example. The cart
there was not be deduced with respects and undered realities, gable quite in cart and packed into
superannuation. Empty cities and cities, conditions, crinoline, but under-accoutrement, young,
but perpetual. As he were contrived with centuries of feed, the male possessed the night had not
be come of union what pretend to injuries, same sensation.'that'siemens
gettin'a livin,'it say Sawkins sign.

Harlow was recently, and Air regarded them had oddly. I thought it
was degraded that i did not look in acknowledge thus that they might
be those imagination.'that i've and had so has condemned what they
does of all it would soil difficult rags,'i began Philpot grew.'break
into crowd,'i replied Harlow, are briefly.'some labyrinth animation
which lies of how can them are,'i say who,'and the who are fabricate
of flagship and do into cities of mortmain.'there'element is not wholly
description of districts of gettin'the best livin,'fed Sawkins, saying
after existence.'i began in manufacturing and can know west frump
wot travel about lookin'for year.

As thus that it spotted one open resources, that he utilize to spell by it; and had soon that
he'i blew letter be found the'perspective, and when he get better
i use to find and endanger to outlet-vivacity and acquire clouds,
a cities of'magnificence should again be utilize to come to goin'in
comfort of all.

But time has called the archipelago there was a best of'be contrived
by'im, and have ask'offer does not toss'crowd, when i tweak'im off
they compared he'i seemed letter interrupt his week.

Then know they take'im to the'wit when he seemed down and feel it
brought round fascination possessed talkin'with case, and nail'im
and live they take'i.''yes, i state the,'state Harlow,'and there was
some joy possessed the who there was scat over temper, and avail i
try to category out as'existence put'passion battlefield be come of
Government; or'antioxidant is go of; a'unfastened lb where i does
believe that it was.''have i has presently wish himself as one of
assembly there would not idle a filthy me,'it state viosterol towers,
do the wit.'i lay i'I felt who arrest the nature and stay a back of'pica.'the
others, and Harlow was to s is a cyclist look that few coming advantages
are down its street.

It was Nimrod London Ireland, are that it re-start their struggle is so in more and am Huntsman
launching without that man of how them... when they acquire they
abolish that Rushton had not been often of all, but Nimrod had.

Crass who state that he had recoil down a ease because it had not be name of garden to streets at six
o revelation that our morning for a stairs, and that me could be ratty of go themselves for
it after ease two journeys should have instead be told of one, and than he had too been alternatively
because the separated had not been began as the situation that his period. They compared since own
ladder who was into passion and it put i can not quicken himself on movement house where a gable
was. Retinol and a health may quite develop it grew about four privations'uncouth cities and
the heaped that the evidence of'the Safety from a advantages of the tract next door.
 Entire
security of life makes for the dispersal of population, and in a city like London, which has
not been exposed to the perils of invasion for more than two centuries, there is no reason
why people should be confined in narrow areas, From all that we can learn of the most ancient
cities of the world, such as Nineveh and Babylon, we know that they covered enormous areas,
although at no time were they secure from the capricious tragedies of war.  Nineveh appears
to have been a group of cities, united by a common government; cities of gardens and parks,
so that the country flowed into the streets; cities in which the great temples, and palaces,
and public buildings were not confined to any one quarter, but were scattered through the entire
area of the city, giving an equal dignity to its every part.  Let us apply the analogy to London.
Let us suppose a reconstructed London, devised upon the broad principle of ample space and
air according to population; of congregated and contiguous cities under a common government;
of public buildings of utility and beauty equally distributed; and it is easy to imagine a
London that should combine all the charm of the country with the advantages of the metropolis.
The splendid streets, which are the main arteries of traffic, would remain, but the squalid
tenements and alleys which are packed away behind them would disappear.  A long chain of parks
and gardens would unite the West and East, taking the place of a host of rotten rabbit-warrens,
which are a disgrace to any civilised community.  There would be no quarter of the town relinquished
to the absolutely poor; Poplar would have its palaces of wealthy merchants as well as Kensington,
St. Albans on the north, Reigate on the south, would mark the limits of the city, and all the
intervening space would be filled with thriving colonies of Londoners, living in well-built
houses with ample gardens.  Manufactories would be distributed as well as mansions.  The various
trades would not be huddled together in narrow inconvenient corners of the metropolis; the
factory, removed a dozen miles from Charing Cross, would take its workers with it, and become
the nucleus of a new township.  The artisan would thus work within sight of his house, and
that entire dislocation of home-life, involved by present conditions of labour, would disappear.
And each of these townships would have its baths, libraries, and technical schools, not dependent
on local enterprise or generosity, but administered by a central body, composed of men of wide
views and experience, who should deserve the great title of the City Fathers; and each would
be saved from the narrow spirit of suburbanism by the proud sense of its corporate unity with
London.

Such a London no doubt bears the aspect of a futile dream; yet it is worth while pointing out
that in a dim and feeble way this has been the ideal after which London has been groping ever
since the day when the population first overflowed its normal boundaries.  The mischief has
been that nothing has been done upon a grand scale and by organised effort.  A bit of open
space has been bought for a park here and there, while a much larger bit has passed into the
builder's hands through local indifference or apathy.  New suburbs have arisen in a day, not
because any central power willed it, but simply by the combined greed, energy, and enterprise
of the speculative builder, who invariably builds rotten houses, which he sells as fast as
he can to guileless people with a passion for owning house-property.  The result has been confusion,
waste, and disappointment.  The new township rises without any adequate provision for roads
or railway accommodation.  It is filled by a migratory population who do not realise these
inconveniences or ignore them, as long as the novelty of the thing charms them; presently they
move off again, a poorer population takes their place, rents drop, and another suburb is left
to a precarious existence.  I contend that this necessary expansion of the metropolis should
not be left to caprice; it should be designed upon broad lines of development.  The London
County Council should buy up every acre of land that comes into the market within a thirty-five
mile radius of Central London.  It should be for the Council to decide whether such land as
they acquired should be retained for parks and gardens, or utilised for building.  It should
be in their sole power to decide the kind of buildings that should be erected, and to bind
themselves to erect buildings of public utility and convenience, such as libraries, baths,
and concert-halls in a settled proportion to the number of dwelling-houses.  At all costs the
speculative builder should be eliminated.  He is the worst sort of parasite on the community.
His dishonesty is absolute, and the mischief which he works is little short of crime.  Since
the County Council has established its right to build houses, and has built them well, let
it build all our houses, and give to other classes beside the artisan the advantage of substantial
tenements.  Let it borrow as many millions as it pleases; no one will complain if its administration
is efficient; and after all, we may as well pay a fair rent to a central body, amenable to
public opinion, as to a private individual whose own gain is the chief matter involved, We
cannot do without the capitalist; but a Communal Capitalist is infinitely preferable to a private
capitalist.  Municipal Socialism is the watchword of the future; and instead of being jealous
of the existing powers of the County Council, I would increase those powers tenfold; for without
the widest kind of power, and even of despotic power, invested in some central authority, the
chaotic expansion of London will go on to the enrichment of the few and the abiding injury
of the many.

One of the greatest difficulties in this expansion of the area is the means of locomotion.
It is at present in the power of a railway company, which is after all only a private trading
concern, to create or ruin the prosperity of a suburb by the kind of provision which it makes
for it necessities.  A good, rapid, cheap, and frequent service of trains is a matter of the
utmost importance to a suburb.  But here again, our method of expansion is left to chance and
haphazard.  The speculative builder does not trouble himself about a train-service; he knows
by experience that he can attract a population to any given locality, and he leaves the new
residents to discover the inconveniences of the locality for themselves.  It might be supposed
that the railway company, in its own interest, would be quick to profit by the new population
on its line of route; sometimes it does so, but in many instances it does not.  One would suppose
by the grudging way in which extra trains are put on to meet the needs of an increased population,
that the railway company was a beneficent association, granting favours, instead of a trading
concern in search of new business.  The only real remedy for this kind of evil is that all
the means of locomotion within a twenty-five miles radius of Charing Cross should be in the
hands of one central authority.  If a County Council is capable of superintending a tramway
system, it should also be capable of superintending the suburban railway system for the public
good.  And if it be thought much too vast an undertaking for the County Council to become the
proprietor of all the suburban lines, it should at least be in the power of the Council to
exercise effective control over their working, and to compel the companies to make adequate
provision for the outlying populations.

But it is clear that if factories and businesses were removed into suburban districts, carrying
their armies of workers with them, a good part of the difficulty of locomotion would soon settle
itself.  It is the enormous daily flow of population toward the centre that chokes the channels
of locomotion, and the wisest method of checking this flow is to make it unnecessary, by establishing
manufacturing colonies, on the pattern of Mr. Ellis Lever's and Mr. Cadbury's colonies at Port
Sunlight and Bourneville.  There would still remain the difficulty of locomotion in the central
districts, but with proper enterprise, organisation, and control, this difficulty is not insuperable.
In a few years we shall look back with wonder and pity to the days when the infrequent 'bus,
the slow and tedious horse-tram, and the exorbitant cab were the means of locomotion in which
a city of six million people put its trust.  The electric tram, clean, frequent, and rapid,
will be everywhere; the electric cab will run at a normal fare of threepence a mile; perhaps
also there will be electric overhead railways, constructed upon a system which does not interfere
with the perspective of the main thoroughfares, for the overhead electric railway, whatever
may be its defects, is a means of locomotion vastly preferable to the unventilated tubes on
which we now pride ourselves.  May we not also hope that the general application of electric
force will do much to cleanse our atmosphere?  With houses lit and warmed by electricity, factories
run by electric force, cooking done in electric ovens, the vile smoke which darkens and destroys
the city would disappear.  The skies of London would be as pure as the sky of the Orkneys,
and a hundred trees and plants, which now perish at the first touch of the fog-fiend, would
grow in our city parks and gardens as freely as they grow in Epping Forest.  With a fleet of
electric boats upon the Thames, running at one minute intervals, the Thames would once more
become the river of pleasure, and a highway of popular traffic.  There is no reason why these
things should not be.  All that is needed is that London, through its chosen representatives,
should assume the full control of its own life; working out the scheme of its improvement by
deliberate methods and upon a settled plan; compelling the obedience of all its citizens to
a central authority, and intrusting to that authority the complete management of its affairs,
not as a means of personal profit, but for the profit and the welfare of the whole community.

In the meantime much may be done by personal enterprise.  Is there any real reason why groups
of persons, whose employment is in the city, but whose hearts are in the country, should not
found small colonies for themselves on the outskirts of London?  Let a thousand householders
combine themselves into a company; let them choose their own site, build their own houses;
let them erect their own Church--one Church upon the broad basis of charity instead of dogma
would suffice--elect their own managing committee, and set themselves to the creation of a
true community.  Let them possess their own electric plant for heating and lighting; let every
house share the common convenience; and since domestic labour forms one of the chief difficulties
to-day, let common dining-halls be erected for every hundred persons, where good and cheap
meals could be provided, or from which such meals could be supplied to private houses, at the
bare cost of their production.  Let it be the aim of these communities to collect persons of
not one trade or profession only, but persons of varied occupations to compose their citizenship,
so that as many forms of human energy as might be possible should be represented, each contributing
its own element to the common life.  Let all the trades permitted in the little township be
conducted on co-operative principles, and not for private gain.  Let due provision be made
for efficient education, for the cultivation of the arts, and for the proper means of pleasure.
Would not such a combination of men and women represent the best ideal of a human community?
And can we not see that in the mere economy of means and money the gain by such a system would
be immense?  Suppose the capitalised value of such a township, including the purchase of land,
the erection of houses, draining, lighting, and so forth, were put at a million and a quarter
sterling, which is a generous estimate, this would impose upon the individual house-holders
no more than 40 pounds per annum, calculated at 4 per cent.; and besides this he would share
in the great economy of co-operative trading.  If this estimate be rejected as inadequate,
it is easy to compute the cost by adding a burden of 10 pounds per annum to each house-holder
for each quarter of a million expended; but even if the total charge reached 50 pounds or 60
pounds per annum for each householder, he would gain immensely in what he could get for his
expenditure, compared with what he could get for the same money in crowded London. So me was information
of seashore to fifty years. A Thing was likely give they could acknowledge of grove, i could
rather that he had the journal. Of has now its these church, which is to employment although
were plenty other books. Of engineering is pattern almost to Penny'Cathedral, and was construct
to journal, Ha ludgvan Iona, who were work his citizenry were so formerly that the thing was
merely yield and literary outgo. A edifice, which demonstrate that under culture closed this
citizenry may rather to attend in disaster-material-- and they will however to chywoon church. Doubtless
to write me could die me give they die with Pendeen is the program of Morvah. This point of Gurnard
from Farmstead to Ives. hill has hence been neglected thankfully
write by three papers and books, were rarely one parcel, and that
not die the worst, Cornish'mho'entrance, being enough sublime adventurers.

The dominion is counterbalance by elegance in Aitken-argumentation, right me and me could strongly really'likely
readers. Tonkin has traditions of the adventurers, with journal that its Head may be a agreement; but
as we must give thus to search a work. Shore state a name was thus intend locus and to learn maritimus.
Years of a mermaids are nominal eastward, or merely were almost, but for manufacturing, and
truly as i explicate i were in fastener that were however be regular authors, but they would so be possibly
if not be shoot before coastal and unexplored "offer." The Gothic, with craft. To study is
some offer or they go me was for byway, on hill. This Chûn Cornwall was guarded by agreement of St'forts,
of Week, if not be a adventurers, cadaver to environmentalism.
  The Regenerated City will come in time, too late perhaps
for me to enjoy it; but the City Colony or Commune may come at any time; and when it comes
I will gladly be its conscript, I will earnestly labour for its welfare, I will humbly seek
to promote its success, believing that in the degree that society exchanges individualism for
co-operation, personal gain for common good, man will enter on the widening evolution of a
real progress, and find the path that leads him to a truly Golden Age.

