But perhaps the most salutary effect made by this change on young Tudor was this, that he was
taken by his cousin one Sunday to the Woodwards. Poor Charley had had but small opportunity
of learning what are the pleasures of decent society. He had gone headlong among the infernal
navvies too quickly to allow of that slow and gradual formation of decent alliances which is
all in all to a young man entering life. A boy is turned loose into London, and desired to
choose the good and eschew the bad. Boy as he is, he might probably do so if the opportunity
came in his way. But no such chance is afforded him. To eschew the bad is certainly possible
for him; but as to the good, he must wait till he be chosen. This it is, that is too much for
him. He cannot live without society, and so he falls.

Society, an ample allowance of society, this is the first requisite which a mother should seek
in sending her son to live alone in London; balls, routs, picnics, parties; women, pretty,
well-dressed, witty, easy-mannered; good pictures, elegant drawing rooms, well got-up books,
Majolica and Dresden china-- these are the truest guards to protect a youth from dissipation
and immorality.

  These are the books, the arts, the academes
  That show, contain, and nourish all the world,

if only a youth could have them at his disposal. Some of these things, though by no means all,
Charley Tudor encountered at the Woodwards.

CHAPTER III

THE WOODWARDS

It is very difficult nowadays to say where the suburbs of London come to an end, and where
the country begins. The railways, instead of enabling Londoners to live in the country, have
turned the country into a city. London will soon assume the shape of a great starfish. The
old town, extending from Poplar to Hammersmith, will be the nucleus, and the various railway
lines will be the projecting rays.

It was here that the Woodwards lived.

The grounds were not extensive, being included, house and all, in an area of an acre and a
half: but the most had been made of it; it sloped prettily to the river, and was absolutely
secluded from the road. Thus Surbiton Cottage, as it was called, though it had no pretension
to the grandeur of a country-house, was a desirable residence for a moderate family with a
limited income.

Mrs. Woodward's family, for there was no Mr. Woodward in the case, consisted of herself and
three daughters. There was afterwards added to this an old gentleman, an uncle of Mrs. Woodward's,
but he had not arrived at the time at which we would wish first to introduce our readers to
Hampton.

Mrs. Woodward was the widow of a clergyman who had held a living in London, and had resided
there. He had, however, died when two of his children were very young, and while the third
was still a baby. From that time Mrs. Woodward had lived at the cottage at Hampton, and had
there maintained a good repute, paying her way from month to month as widows with limited incomes
should do, and devoting herself to the amusements and education of her daughters.

It was not, probably, from any want of opportunity to cast them aside, that Mrs. Woodward had
remained true to her weeds; for at the time of her husband's death she was a young and a very
pretty woman; and an income of L400 a year, though moderate enough for all the wants of a gentleman's
family, would no doubt have added sufficiently to her charms to have procured her a second
alliance, had she been so minded.

Twelve years, however, had now elapsed since Mr. Woodward had been gathered to his fathers,
and the neighbouring world of Hampton, who had all of them declared over and over again that
the young widow would certainly marry again, were now becoming as unanimous in their expressed
opinion that the old widow knew the value of her money too well to risk it in the keeping of
the best he that ever wore boots.

At the date at which our story commences, she was a comely little woman, past forty, somewhat
below the middle height, rather embonpoint, as widows of forty should be, with pretty fat feet,
and pretty fat hands; wearing just a soupcon of a widow's cap on her head, with her hair, now
slightly grey, parted in front, and brushed very smoothly, but not too carefully, in bandeaux
over her forehead.

She was a quick little body, full of good-humour, slightly given to repartee, and perhaps rather
too impatient of a fool. But though averse to a fool, she could sympathize with folly. A great
poet has said that women are all rakes at heart; and there was something of the rake at heart
about Mrs. Woodward. She never could be got to express adequate horror at fast young men, and
was apt to have her own sly little joke at women who prided themselves on being punctilious.
She could, perhaps, the more safely indulge in this, as scandal had never even whispered a
word against herself.

With her daughters she lived on terms almost of equality. The two elder were now grown up;
that is, they were respectively eighteen and seventeen years old. They were devotedly attached
to their mother, looked on her as the only perfect woman in existence, and would willingly
do nothing that could vex her; but they perhaps were not quite so systematically obedient to
her as children should be to their only surviving parent. Mrs. Woodward, however, found nothing
amiss, and no one else therefore could well have a right to complain.

They were both pretty--but Gertrude, the elder, was by far the more strikingly so. They were,
nevertheless, much alike; they both had rich brown hair, which they, like their mother, wore
simply parted over the forehead. They were both somewhat taller than her, and were nearly of
a height. But in appearance, as in disposition, Gertrude carried by far the greater air of
command. She was the handsomer of the two, and the cleverer. She could write French and nearly
speak it, while her sister could only read it. She could play difficult pieces from sight,
which it took her sister a morning's pains to practise. She could fill in and finish a drawing,
while her sister was still struggling, and struggling in vain, with the first principles of
the art.

But there was a softness about Linda, for such was the name of the second Miss Woodward, which
in the eyes of many men made up both for the superior beauty and superior talent of Gertrude.
Gertrude was, perhaps, hardly so soft as so young a girl should be. In her had been magnified
that spirit of gentle raillery which made so attractive a part of her mother's character. She
enjoyed and emulated her mother's quick sharp sayings, but she hardly did so with her mother's
grace, and sometimes attempted it with much more than her mother's severity. She also detested
fools; but in promulgating her opinion on this subject, she was too apt to declare who the
fools were whom she detested.

It may be thought that under such circumstances there could be but little confidence between
the sisters; but, nevertheless, in their early days, they lived together as sisters should
do. Gertrude, when she spoke of fools, never intended to include Linda in the number; and Linda
appreciated too truly, and admired too thoroughly, her sister's beauty and talent to be jealous
of either.

Of the youngest girl, Katie, it is not necessary at present to say much. At this time she was
but thirteen years of age, and was a happy, pretty, romping child. She gave fair promise to
be at any rate equal to her sisters in beauty, and in mind was quick and intelligent. Her great
taste was for boating, and the romance of her life consisted in laying out ideal pleasure-grounds,
and building ideal castles in a little reedy island or ait which lay out in the Thames, a few
perches from the drawing-room windows.

Such was the family of the Woodwards. Harry Norman's father and Mr. Woodward had been first
cousins, and hence it had been quite natural that when Norman came up to reside in London he
should be made welcome to Surbiton Cottage. He had so been made welcome, and had thus got into
a habit of spending his Saturday evenings and Sundays at the home of his relatives. In summer
he could row up in his own wherry, and land himself and carpet-bag direct on the Woodwards'
lawn, and in the winter he came down by the Hampton Court five p.m. train--and in each case
he returned on the Monday morning. Thus, as regards that portion of his time which was most
his own, he may be said almost to have lived at Surbiton Cottage, and if on any Sunday he omitted
to make his appearance, the omission was ascribed by the ladies of Hampton, in some half-serious
sort of joke, to metropolitan allurements and temptations which he ought to have withstood.

When Tudor and Norman came to live together, it was natural enough that Tudor also should be
taken down to Surbiton Cottage. Norman could not leave him on every Saturday without telling
him much of his friends whom he went to visit, and he could hardly say much of them without
offering to introduce his companion to them. Tudor accordingly went there, and it soon came
to pass that he also very frequently spent his Sundays at Hampton.

It must be remembered that at this time, the time, that is, of Norman and Tudor's first entrance
on their London life, the girls at Surbiton Cottage were mere girls--that is, little more than
children; they had not, as it were, got their wings so as to be able to fly away when the provocation
to do so might come; they were, in short, Gertrude and Linda Woodward, and not the Miss Woodwards:
their drawers came down below their frocks, instead of their frocks below their drawers; and
in lieu of studying the French language, as is done by grown-up ladies, they did French lessons,
as is the case with ladies who are not grown-up. Under these circumstances there was no embarrassment
as to what the young people should call each other, and they soon became very intimate as Harry
and Alaric, Gertrude and Linda.

It is not, however, to be conceived that Alaric Tudor at once took the same footing in the
house as Norman. This was far from being the case. In the first place he never slept there,
seeing that there was no bed for him; and the most confidential intercourse in the household
took place as they sat cosy over the last embers of the drawing-room fire, chatting about everything
and nothing, as girls always can do, after Tudor had gone away to his bed at the inn, on the
opposite side of the way. And then Tudor did not come on every Saturday, and at first did not
do so without express invitation; and although the girls soon habituated themselves to the
familiarity of their new friend's Christian name, it was some time before Mrs. Woodward did so.

Two--three years soon flew by, and Linda and Gertrude became the Miss Woodwards; their frocks
were prolonged, their drawers curtailed, and the lessons abandoned. But still Alaric Tudor
and Harry Norman came to Hampton not less frequently than of yore, and the world resident on
that portion of the left bank of the Thames found out that Harry Norman and Gertrude Woodward
were to be man and wife, and that Alaric Tudor and Linda Woodward were to go through the same
ceremony. They found this out, or said that they had done so. But, as usual, the world was
wrong; at least in part, for at the time of which we are speaking no word of love- making had
passed, at any rate, between the last-named couple.

And what was Mrs. Woodward about all this time? Was she match- making or match-marring; or
was she negligently omitting the duties of a mother on so important an occasion? She was certainly
neither match-making nor match-marring; but it was from no negligence that she was thus quiescent.
She knew, or thought she knew, that the two young men were fit to be husbands to her daughters,
and she felt that if the wish for such an alliance should spring up between either pair, there
was no reason why she should interfere to prevent it. But she felt also that she should not
interfere to bring any such matter to pass. These young people had by chance been thrown together.
Should there be love- passages among them, as it was natural to suppose there might be, it
would be well. Should there be none such, it would be well also. She thoroughly trusted her
own children, and did not distrust her friends; and so as regards Mrs. Woodward the matter
was allowed to rest.

We cannot say that on this matter we quite approve of her conduct, though we cannot but admire
the feeling which engendered it. Her daughters were very young; though they had made such positive
advances as have been above described towards the discretion of womanhood, they were of the
age when they would have been regarded as mere boys had they belonged to the other sex. The
assertion made by Clara Van Artevelde, that women 'grow upon the sunny side of the wall,' is
doubtless true; but young ladies, gifted as they are with such advantages, may perhaps be thought
to require some counsel, some advice, in those first tender years in which they so often have
to make or mar their fortunes.

Not that Mrs. Woodward gave them no advice; not but that she advised them well and often--but
she did so, perhaps, too much as an equal, too little as a parent.

But, be that as it may--and I trust my readers will not be inclined so early in our story to
lean heavily on Mrs. Woodward, whom I at once declare to be my own chief favourite in the tale--
but, be that as it may, it so occurred that Gertrude, before she was nineteen, had listened
to vows of love from Harry Norman, which she neither accepted nor repudiated; and that Linda
had, before she was eighteen, perhaps unfortunately, taught herself to think it probable that
she might have to listen to vows of love from Alaric Tudor.

There had been no concealment between the young men as to their feelings. Norman had told his
friend scores of times that it was the first wish of his heart to marry Gertrude Woodward;
and had told him, moreover, what were his grounds for hope, and what his reasons for despair.

'She is as proud as a queen,' he had once said as he was rowing from Hampton to Searle's Wharf,
and lay on his oars as the falling tide carried his boat softly past the green banks of Richmond--'she
is as proud as a queen, and yet as timid as a fawn. She lets me tell her that I love her, but
she will not say a word to me in reply; as for touching her in the way of a caress, I should
as soon think of putting my arm round a goddess.'

'And why not put your arms round a goddess?' said Alaric, who was perhaps a little bolder than
his friend, and a little less romantic. To this Harry answered nothing, but, laying his back
to his work, swept on past the gardens of Kew, and shot among the wooden dangers of Putney Bridge.

'I wish you could bring yourself to make up to Linda,' said he, resting again from his labours;
'that would make the matter so much easier.'

'Bring myself!' said Alaric; 'what you mean is, that you wish I could bring Linda to consent
to be made up to.'

'I don't think you would have much difficulty,' said Harry, finding it much easier to answer
for Linda than for her sister; 'but perhaps you don't admire her?'

'I think her by far the prettier of the two,' said Alaric.

'That's nonsense,' said Harry, getting rather red in the face, and feeling rather angry.

'Indeed I do; and so, I am convinced, would most men. You need not murder me, man. You want
me to make up to Linda, and surely it will be better that I should admire my own wife than yours.'

'Oh! you may admire whom you like; but to say that she is prettier than Gertrude--why, you
know, it is nonsense.'

'Very well, my dear fellow; then to oblige you, I'll fall in love with Gertrude.'

'I know you won't do that,' said Harry, 'for you are not so very fond of each other; but, joking
apart, I do wish so you would make up to Linda.'

'Well, I will when my aunt leaves me L200 a year.'

There was no answering this; so the two men changed the conversation as they walked up together
from the boat wharf to the office of the Weights and Measures.

It was just at this time that fortune and old Mr. Tudor, of the Shropshire parsonage, brought
Charley Tudor to reside with our two heroes. For the first month, or six weeks, Charley was
ruthlessly left by his companions to get through his Sundays as best he could. It is to be
hoped that he spent them in divine worship; but it may, we fear, be surmised with more probability,
that he paid his devotions at the shrine of some very inferior public-house deity in the neighbourhood
of Somerset House. As a matter of course, both Norman and Tudor spoke much of their new companion
to the ladies at Surbiton Cottage, and as by degrees they reported somewhat favourably of his
improved morals, Mrs. Woodward, with a woman's true kindness, begged that he might be brought
down to Hampton.

'I am afraid you will find him very rough,' said his cousin Alaric.

'At any rate you will not find him a fool,' said Norman, who was always the more charitable
of the two.

'Thank God for that!' said Mrs. Woodward,' and if he will come next Saturday, let him by all
means do so. Pray give my compliments to him, and tell him how glad I shall be to see him.'

And thus was this wild wolf to be led into the sheep-cote; this infernal navvy to be introduced
among the angels of Surbiton Cottage. Mrs. Woodward thought that she had a taste for reclaiming
reprobates, and was determined to try her hand on Charley Tudor.

Charley went, and his debut was perfectly successful. We have hitherto only looked on the worst
side of his character; but bad as his character was, it had a better side. He was good-natured
in the extreme, kind-hearted and affectionate; and, though too apt to be noisy and even boisterous
when much encouraged, was not without a certain innate genuine modesty, which the knowledge
of his own iniquities had rather increased than blunted; and, as Norman had said of him, he
was no fool. His education had not been good, and he had done nothing by subsequent reading
to make up for this deficiency; but he was well endowed with mother-wit, and owed none of his
deficiencies to nature's churlishness.

He came, and was well received. The girls thought he would surely get drunk before he left
the table, and Mrs. Wood ward feared the austere precision of her parlourmaid might be offended
by some unworthy familiarity; but no accident of either kind seemed to occur. He came to the
tea-table perfectly sober, and, as far as Mrs. Woodward could tell, was unaware of the presence
of the parlour-maiden.

On the Sunday morning, Charley went to church, just like a Christian. Now Mrs. Woodward certainly
had expected that he would have spent those two hours in smoking and attacking the parlour-
maid. He went to church, however, and seemed in no whit astray there; stood up when others
stood up, and sat down when others sat down. After all, the infernal navvies, bad as they doubtless
were, knew something of the recognized manners of civilized life.

Thus Charley Tudor ingratiated himself at Surbiton Cottage, and when he left, received a kind
intimation from its mistress that she would be glad to see him again. No day was fixed, and
so Charley could not accompany his cousin and Harry Norman on the next Saturday; but it was
not long before he got another direct invitation, and so he also became intimate at Hampton.
There could be no danger of any one falling in love with him, for Katie was still a child.

Things stood thus at Surbiton Cottage when Mrs. Woodward received a proposition from a relative
of her own, which surprised them all not a little. This was from a certain Captain Cuttwater,
who was a maternal uncle to Mrs. Woodward, and consisted of nothing less than an offer to come
and live with them for the remaining term of his natural life. Now Mrs. Woodward's girls had
seen very little of their grand-uncle, and what little they had seen had only taught them to
laugh at him. When his name was mentioned in the family conclave, he was always made the subject
of some little feminine joke; and Mrs. Woodward, though she always took her uncle's part, did
so in a manner that made them feel that he was fair game for their quizzing.

When the proposal was first enunciated to the girls, they one and all, for Katie was one of
the council, suggested that it should be declined with many thanks.

'He'll take us all for midshipmen,' said Linda, 'and stop our rations, and mast-head us whenever
we displease him.'

'I am sure he is a cross old hunks, though mamma says he's not,' said Katie, with all the impudence
of spoilt fourteen.

'He'll interfere with every one of our pursuits,' said Gertrude, more thoughtfully, 'and be
sure to quarrel with the young men.'

But Mrs. Woodward, though she had consulted her daughters, had arguments of her own in favour
of Captain Cuttwater's proposition, which she had not yet made known to them. Good- humoured
and happy as she always was, she had her cares in the world. Her income was only L400 a year,
and that, now that the Income Tax had settled down on it, was barely sufficient for her modest
wants. A moiety of this died with her, and the remainder would be but a poor support for her
three daughters, if at the time of her death it should so chance that she should leave them
in want of support. She had always regarded Captain Cuttwater as a probable source of future
aid. He was childless and unmarried, and had not, as far as she was aware, another relative
in the world. It would, therefore, under any circumstances, be bad policy to offend him. But
the letter in which he had made his offer had been of a very peculiar kind. He had begun by
saying that he was to be turned out of his present berth by a d--- Whig Government on account
of his age, he being as young a man as ever he had been; that it behoved him to look out for
a place of residence, in which he might live, and, if it should so please God, die also. He
then said that he expected to pay L200 a year for his board and lodging, which he thought might
as well go to his niece as to some shark, who would probably starve him. He also said that,
poor as he was and always had been, he had contrived to scrape together a few hundred pounds;
that he was well aware that if he lived among strangers he should be done out of every shilling
of it; but that if his niece would receive him, he hoped to be able to keep it together for
the benefit of his grand-nieces, &c.

Now Mrs. Woodward knew her uncle to be an honest-minded man; she knew also, that, in spite
of his protestation as to being a very poor man, he had saved money enough to make him of some
consequence wherever he went; and she therefore conceived that she could not with prudence
send him to seek a home among chance strangers. She explained as much of this to the girls
as she thought proper, and ended the matter by making them understand that Captain Cuttwater
was to be received.

On the Saturday after this the three scions of the Civil Service were all at Surbiton Cottage,
and it will show how far Charley had then made good his ground, to state that the coming of
the captain was debated in his presence.

'And when is the great man to be here?' said Norman.

'At once, I believe,' said Mrs. Woodward; 'that is, perhaps, before the end of this week, and
certainly before the end of next.'

'And what is he like?' said Alaric.

'Why, he has a tail hanging down behind, like a cat or a dog,' said Katie.

'Hold your tongue, miss,' said Gertrude. 'As he is to come he must be treated with respect;
but it is a great bore. To me it will destroy all the pleasures of life.'

'Nonsense, Gertrude,' said Mrs. Woodward; 'it is almost wicked of you to say so. Destroy all
the pleasure of life to have an old gentleman live in the same house with you!--you ought to
be more moderate, my dear, in what you say.'

'That's all very well, mamma,' said Gertrude, 'but you know you don't like him yourself.'

'But is it true that Captain Cuttwater wears a pigtail?' asked Norman.

'I don't care what he wears,' said Gertrude; 'he may wear three if he likes.'

'Oh! I wish he would,' said Katie, laughing; 'that would be so delicious. Oh, Linda, fancy
Captain Cuttwater with three pigtails!'

'I am sorry to disappoint you, Katie,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'but your uncle does not wear even
one; he once did, but he cut it off long since.'

'I am so sorry,' said Katie.

'I suppose he'll want to dine early, and go to bed early?' said Linda.

'His going to bed early would be a great blessing,' said Gertrude, mindful of their midnight
conclaves on Saturdays and Sundays.

'But his getting up early won't be a blessing at all,' said Linda, who had a weakness on that
subject.

'Talking of bed, Harry, you'll have the worst of it,' said Katie, 'for the captain is to have
your room.'

'Yes, indeed,' said Mrs. Woodward, sighing gently, 'we shall no longer have a bed for you,
Harry; that is the worst of it.'

Harry of course assured her that if that was the worst of it there was nothing very bad in
it. He could have a bed at the inn as well as Alaric and Charley. The amount of that evil would
only be half-a-crown a night.

And thus the advent of Captain Cuttwater was discussed.

CHAPTER IV

CAPTAIN CUTTWATER

Captain Cuttwater had not seen much service afloat; that is, he had not been personally concerned
in many of those sea- engagements which in and about the time of Nelson gave so great a halo
of glory to the British Lion; nor had it even been permitted to him to take a prominent part
in such minor affairs as have since occurred; he had not the opportunity of distinguishing
himself either at the battle of Navarino or the bombarding of Acre; and, unfortunately for
his ambition, the period of his retirement came before that great Baltic campaign, in which,
had he been there, he would doubtless have distinguished himself as did so many others. His
earliest years were spent in cruising among the West Indies; he then came home and spent some
considerable portion of his life in idleness--if that time can be said to have been idly spent
which he devoted to torturing the Admiralty with applications, remonstrances, and appeals.
Then he was rated as third lieutenant on the books of some worm-eaten old man-of-war at Portsmouth,
and gave up his time to looking after the stowage of anchors, and counting fathoms of rope.
At last he was again sent afloat as senior lieutenant in a ten-gun brig, and cruised for some
time off the coast of Africa, hunting for slavers; and returning after a while from this enterprising
employment, he received a sort of amphibious appointment at Devonport. What his duties were
here, the author, being in all points a landsman, is unable to describe. Those who were inclined
to ridicule Captain Cuttwater declared that the most important of them consisted in seeing
that the midshipmen in and about the dockyard washed their faces, and put on clean linen not
less often than three times a week. According to his own account, he had many things of a higher
nature to attend to; and, indeed, hardly a ship sank or swam in Hamoaze except by his special
permission, for a space of twenty years, if his own view of his own career may be accepted
as correct.

He had once declared to certain naval acquaintances, over his third glass of grog, that he
regarded it as his birthright to be an Admiral; but at the age of seventy-two he had not yet
acquired his birthright, and the probability of his ever attaining it was becoming very small
indeed. He was still bothering Lords and Secretaries of the Admiralty for further promotion,
when he was astounded by being informed by the Port-Admiral that he was to be made happy by
half-pay and a pension. The Admiral, in communicating the intelligence, had pretended to think
that he was giving the captain information which could not be otherwise than grateful to him,
but he was not the less aware that the old man would be furious at being so treated. What,
pension him! put him on half-pay--shelf him for life, while he was still anxiously expecting
that promotion, that call to higher duties which had so long been his due, and which, now that
his powers were matured, could hardly be longer denied to him! And after all that he had done
for his country--his ungrateful, thankless, ignorant country--was he thus to be treated? Was
he to be turned adrift without any mark of honour, any special guerdon, any sign of his Sovereign's
favour to testify as to his faithful servitude of sixty years' devotion? He, who had regarded
it as his merest right to be an Admiral, and had long indulged the hope of being greeted in
the streets of Devonport as Sir Bartholomew Cuttwater, K.C.B., was he to be thus thrown aside
in his prime, with no other acknowledgement than the bare income to which he was entitled!

It is hardly too much to say, that no old officers who have lacked the means to distinguish
themselves, retire from either of our military services, free from the bitter disappointment
and sour feelings of neglected worth, which Captain Cuttwater felt so keenly. A clergyman,
or a doctor, or a lawyer, feels himself no whit disgraced if he reaches the end of his worldly
labours without special note or honour. But to a soldier or a sailor, such indifference to
his merit is wormwood. It is the bane of the professions. Nine men out of ten who go into it
must live discontented, and die disappointed.

Captain Cuttwater had no idea that he was an old man. He had lived for so many years among
men of his own stamp, who had grown grey and bald, and rickety, and weak alongside of him,
that he had no opportunity of seeing that he was more grey or more rickety than his neighbours.
No children had become men and women at his feet; no new race had gone out into the world and
fought their battles under his notice. One set of midshipmen had succeeded to another, but
his old comrades in the news-rooms and lounging-places at Devonport had remained the same;
and Captain Cuttwater had never learnt to think that he was not doing, and was not able to
do good service for his country.

The very name of Captain Cuttwater was odious to every clerk at the Admiralty. He, like all
naval officers, hated the Admiralty, and thought, that of all Englishmen, those five who had
been selected to sit there in high places as joint lords were the most incapable. He pestered
them with continued and almost continuous applications on subjects of all sorts. He was always
asking for increased allowances, advanced rank, more assistance, less work, higher privileges,
immunities which could not be granted, and advantages to which he had no claim. He never took
answers, but made every request the subject of a prolonged correspondence; till at last some
energetic Assistant-Secretary declared that it should no longer be borne, and Captain Cuttwater
was dismissed with pension and half-pay. During his service he had contrived to save some four
or five thousand pounds, and now he was about to retire with an assured income adequate to
all his wants. The public who had the paying of Captain Cuttwater may, perhaps, think that
he was amply remunerated for what he had done; but the captain himself entertained a very different
opinion.

Such is the view which we are obliged to take of the professional side of Captain Cuttwater's
character. But the professional side was by far the worst. Counting fathoms of rope and looking
after unruly midshipmen on shore are not duties capable of bringing out in high relief the
better traits of a main's character. Uncle Bat, as during the few last years of his life he
was always called at Surbiton Cottage, was a gentleman and a man of honour, in spite of anything
that might be said to the contrary at the Admiralty. He was a man with a soft heart, though
the end of his nose was so large, so red, and so pimply; and rough as was his usage to little
midshipmen when his duty caused him to encounter them in a body, he had befriended many a one
singly with kind words and an open hand. The young rogues would unmercifully quiz Old Nosey,
for so Captain Cuttwater was generally called in Devonport, whenever they could safely do so;
but, nevertheless, in their young distresses they knew him for their friend, and were not slow
to come to him.

In person Captain Cuttwater was a tall, heavy man, on whose iron constitution hogsheads of
Hollands and water seemed to have had no very powerful effect. He was much given to profane
oaths; but knowing that manners required that he should refrain before ladies, and being unable
to bring his tongue sufficiently under command to do so, he was in the habit of 'craving the
ladies' pardon' after every slip.

All that was really remarkable in Uncle Bat's appearance was included in his nose. It had always
been a generous, weighty, self-confident nose, inviting to itself more observation than any
of its brother features demanded. But in latter years it had spread itself out in soft, porous,
red excrescences, to such an extent as to make it really deserving of considerable attention.
No stranger ever passed Captain Cuttwater in the streets of Devonport without asking who he
was, or, at any rate, specially noticing him.

It must, of course, be admitted that a too strongly pronounced partiality for alcoholic drink
had produced these defects in Captain Cuttwater's nasal organ; and yet he was a most staunch
friend of temperance. No man alive or dead had ever seen Captain Cuttwater the worse for liquor;
at least so boasted the captain himself, and there were none, at any rate in Devonport, to
give him the lie. Woe betide the midshipman whom he should see elated with too much wine; and
even to the common sailor who should be tipsy at the wrong time, he would show no mercy. Most
eloquent were the discourses which he preached against drunkenness, and they always ended with
a reference to his own sobriety. The truth was, that drink would hardly make Captain Cuttwater
drunk. It left his brain untouched, but punished his nose.

Mrs. Woodward had seen her uncle but once since she had become a widow. He had then come up
to London to attack the Admiralty at close quarters, and had sojourned for three or four days
at Surbiton Cottage. This was now some ten years since, and the girls had forgotten even what
he was like. Great preparations were made for him. Though the summer had nearly commenced,
a large fire was kept burning in his bedroom--his bed was newly hung with new curtains; two
feather beds were piled on each other, and everything was done which five women could think
desirable to relieve the ailings of suffering age. The fact, however, was that Captain Cuttwater
was accustomed to a small tent bedstead in a room without a carpet, that he usually slept on
a single mattress, and that he never had a fire in his bedroom, even in the depth of winter.

Travelling from Devonport to London is now an easy matter; and Captain Cuttwater, old as he
was, found himself able to get through to Hampton in one day. Mrs. Woodward went to meet him
at Hampton Court in a fly, and conveyed him to his new home, together with a carpet-bag, a
cocked hat, a sword, and a very small portmanteau. When she inquired after the remainder of
his luggage, he asked her what more lumber she supposed he wanted. No more lumber at any rate
made its appearance, then or afterwards; and the fly proceeded with an easy load to Surbiton
Cottage.

There was great anxiety on the part of the girls when the wheels were heard to stop at the
front door. Gertrude kept her place steadily standing on the rug in the drawing-room; Linda
ran to the door and then back again; but Katie bolted out and ensconced herself behind the
parlour-maid, who stood at the open door, looking eagerly forth to get the first view of Uncle Bat.

'So here you are, Bessie, as snug as ever,' said the captain, as he let himself ponderously
down from the fly. Katie had never before heard her mother called Bessie, and had never seen
anything approaching in size or colour to such a nose, consequently she ran away frightened.

'That's Gertrude--is it?' said the captain.

'Gertrude, uncle! Why Gertrude is a grown-up woman now. That's Katie, whom you remember an infant.'

'God bless my soul!' said the captain, as though he thought that girls must grow twice quicker
at Hampton than they did at Devonport or elsewhere, 'God bless my soul!'

He was then ushered into the drawing-room, and introduced in form to his grand-nieces. 'This
is Gertrude, uncle, and this Linda; there is just enough difference for you to know them apart.
And this Katie. Come here, Katie, and kiss your uncle.'

Katie came up, hesitated, looked horrified, but did manage to get her face somewhat close to
the old man's without touching the tremendous nose, and then having gone through this peril
she retreated again behind the sofa.

'Well; bless my stars, Bessie, you don't tell me those are your children?'

'Indeed, uncle, I believe they are. It's a sad tale for me to tell, is it not?' said the blooming
mother with a laugh.

'Why, they'll be looking out for husbands next,' said Uncle Bat.

'Oh! they're doing that already, every day,' said Katie.

'Ha, ha, ha!' laughed Uncle Bat; 'I suppose so, I suppose so;-- ha, ha, ha!'

Gertrude turned away to the window, disgusted and angry, and made up her mind to hate Uncle
Bat for ever afterwards. Linda made a little attempt to smile, and felt somewhat glad in her
heart that her uncle was a man who could indulge in a joke.

He was then taken upstairs to his bedroom, and here he greatly frightened Katie, and much scandalized
the parlour-maid by declaring, immediately on his entering the room, that it was 'd----- hot,
d---ation hot; craving your pardon, ladies!'

'We thought, uncle, you'd like a fire,' began Mrs. Woodward, 'as----'

'A fire in June, when I can hardly carry my coat on my back!'

'It's the last day of May now,' said Katie timidly, from behind the bed-curtains.

This, however, did not satisfy the captain, and orders were forthwith given that the fire should
be taken away, the curtains stripped off, the feather beds removed, and everything reduced
to pretty much the same state in which it had usually been left for Harry Norman's accommodation.
So much for all the feminine care which had been thrown away upon the consideration of Uncle
Bat's infirmities.

'God bless my soul!' said he, wiping his brow with a huge coloured handkerchief as big as a
mainsail, 'one night in such a furnace as that would have brought on the gout.'

He had dined in town, and by the time that his chamber had been stripped of its appendages,
he was nearly ready for bed. Before he did so, he was asked to take a glass of sherry.

'Ah! sherry,' said he, taking up the bottle and putting it down again. 'Sherry, ah! yes; very
good wine, I am sure. You haven't a drop of rum in the house, have you?'

Mrs. Woodward declared with sorrow that she had not.

'Or Hollands?' said Uncle Bat. But the ladies of Surbiton Cottage were unsupplied also with
Hollands.

'Gin?' suggested the captain, almost in despair.

Mrs. Woodward had no gin, but she could send out and get it; and the first evening of Captain
Cuttwater's visit saw Mrs. Woodward's own parlour-maid standing at the bar of the Green Dragon,
while two gills of spirits were being measured out for her.

'Only for the respect she owed to Missus,' as she afterwards declared, 'she never would have
so demeaned herself for all the captains in the Queen's battalions.'

The captain, however, got his grog; and having enlarged somewhat vehemently while he drank
it on the iniquities of those scoundrels at the Admiralty, took himself off to bed; and left
his character and peculiarities to the tender mercies of his nieces.

The following day was Friday, and on the Saturday Norman and Tudor were to come down as a matter
of course. During the long days, they usually made their appearance after dinner; but they
had now been specially requested to appear in good orderly time, in honour of the captain.
Their advent had been of course spoken of, and Mrs. Woodward had explained to Uncle Bat that
her cousin Harry usually spent his Sundays at Hampton, and that he usually also brought with
him a friend of his, a Mr. Tudor. To all this, as a matter of course, Uncle Bat had as yet
no objection to make.

The young men came, and were introduced with due ceremony. Surbiton Cottage, however, during
dinnertime, was very unlike what it had been before, in the opinion of all the party there
assembled. The girls felt themselves called upon, they hardly knew why, to be somewhat less
intimate in their manner with the young men than they customarily were; and Harry and Alaric,
with quick instinct, reciprocated the feeling. Mrs. Woodward, even, assumed involuntarily somewhat
of a company air; and Uncle Bat, who sat at the bottom of the table, in the place usually assigned
to Norman, was awkward in doing the honours of the house to guests who were in fact much more
at home there than himself.

After dinner the young people strolled out into the garden, and Katie, as was her wont, insisted
on Harry Norman rowing her over to her damp paradise in the middle of the river. He attempted,
vainly, to induce Gertrude to accompany them. Gertrude was either coy with her lover, or indifferent;
for very few were the occasions on which she could be induced to gratify him with the rapture
of a tete-a-tete encounter. So that, in fact, Harry Norman's Sunday visits were generally moments
of expected bliss of which the full fruition was but seldom attained. So while Katie went off
to the island, Alaric and the two girls sat under a spreading elm tree and watched the little
boat as it shot across the water. 'And what do you think of Uncle Bat?' said Gertrude.

'Well, I am sure he's a good sort of fellow, and a very, gallant officer, but--'

'But what?' said Linda.

'It's a thousand pities he should have ever been removed from Devonport, where I am sure he
was both useful and ornamental.'

Both the girls laughed cheerily; and as the sound came across the water to Norman's ears, he
repented himself of his good nature to Katie, and determined that her sojourn in the favourite
island should, on this occasion, be very short.

'But he is to pay mamma a great deal of money,' said Linda, 'and his coming will be a great
benefit to her in that way.'

'There ought to be something to compensate for the bore,' said Gertrude.

'We must only make the best of him,' said Alaric. 'For my part, I am rather fond of old gentlemen
with long noses; but it seemed to me that he was not quite so fond of us. I thought he looked
rather shy at Harry and me.'

Both the girls protested against this, and declared that there could be nothing in it.

'Well, now, I'll tell you what, Gertrude,' said Alaric, 'I am quite sure that he looks on me,
especially, as an interloper; and yet I'll bet you a pair of gloves I am his favourite before
a month is over.'

'Oh, no; Linda is to be his favourite,' said Gertrude.

'Indeed I am not,' said Linda. 'I liked him very well till he drank three huge glasses of gin-and-water
last night, but I never can fancy him after that. You can't conceive, Alaric, what the drawing-room
smelt like. I suppose he'll do the same every evening.'

'Well, what can you expect?' said Gertrude; 'if mamma will have an old sailor to live with
her, of course he'll drink grog.'

While this was going on in the garden, Mrs. Woodward sat dutifully with her uncle while he
sipped his obnoxious toddy, and answered his questions about their two friends.

'They were both in the Weights and Measures, by far the most respectable public office in London,'
as she told him, 'and both doing extremely well there. They were, indeed, young men sure to
distinguish themselves and get on in the world. Had this not been so, she might perhaps have
hesitated to receive them so frequently, and on such intimate terms, at Surbiton Cottage.'
This she said in a half-apologetic manner, and yet with a feeling of anger at herself that
she should condescend to apologize to any one as to her own conduct in her own house.

'They are very-nice young men, I am sure,' said Uncle Bat.

'Indeed they are,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'And very civil to the young ladies,' said Uncle Bat.

'They have known them since they were children, uncle; and of course that makes them more intimate
than young men generally are with young ladies;' and again Mrs. Woodward was angry with herself
for making any excuses on the subject.

'Are they well off?' asked the prudent captain.

'Harry Norman is very well off; he has a private fortune. Both of them have excellent situations.'

'To my way of thinking that other chap is the better fellow. At any rate he seems to have more
gumption about him.'

'Why, uncle, you don't mean to tell me that you think Harry Norman a fool?' said Mrs. Woodward.
Harry Norman was Mrs. Woodward's special friend, and she fondly indulged the hope of seeing
him in time become the husband of her elder and favourite daughter; if, indeed, she can be
fairly said to have had a favourite child.

Captain Cuttwater poured out another glass of rum, and dropped the subject.

Soon afterwards the whole party came in from the lawn. Katie was all draggled and wet, for
she had persisted in making her way right across the island to look out for a site for another
palace. Norman was a little inclined to be sulky, for Katie had got the better of him; when
she had got out of the boat, he could not get her into it again; and as he could not very well
leave her in the island, he had been obliged to remain paddling about, while he heard the happy
voices of Alaric and the two girls from the lawn. Alaric was in high good-humour, and entered
the room intent on his threatened purpose of seducing Captain Cuttwater's affections. The two
girls were both blooming with happy glee, and Gertrude was especially bright in spite of the
somewhat sombre demeanour of her lover.

Tea was brought in, whereupon Captain Cuttwater, having taken a bit of toast and crammed it
into his saucer, fell fast asleep in an arm-chair.

'You'll have very little opportunity to-night,' said Linda, almost in a whisper.

'Opportunity for what?' asked Mrs. Woodward.

'Hush,' said Gertrude, 'we'll tell you by and by, mamma. You'll wake Uncle Bat if you talk now.'

'I am so thirsty,' said Katie, bouncing into the room with dry shoes and stockings on. 'I am
so thirsty. Oh, Linda, do give me some tea.'

'Hush,' said Alaric, pointing to the captain, who was thoroughly enjoying himself, and uttering
sonorous snores at regular fixed intervals.

'Sit down, Katie, and don't make a noise,' said Mrs. Woodward, gently.

Katie slunk into a chair, opened wide her large bright eyes, applied herself diligently to
her teacup, and then, after taking breath, said, in a very audible whisper to her sister, 'Are
not we to talk at all, Linda? That will be very dull, I think.'

'Yes, my dear, you are to talk as much as you please, and as often as you please, and as loud
as you please; that is to say, if your mamma will let you,' said Captain Cuttwater, without
any apparent waking effort, and in a moment the snoring was going on again as regularly as before.

Katie looked round, and again opened her eyes and laughed. Mrs. Woodward said, 'You are very
good-natured, uncle.' The girls exchanged looks with Alaric, and Norman, who had not yet recovered
his good-humour, went on sipping his tea.

As soon as the tea-things were gone, Uncle Bat yawned and shook himself, and asked if it was
not nearly time to go to bed.

'Whenever you like, Uncle Bat,' said Mrs. Woodward, who began to find that she agreed with
Gertrude, that early habits on the part of her uncle would be a family blessing. 'But perhaps
you'll take something before you go?'

'Well, I don't mind if I do take a thimbleful of rum-and-water.' So the odious spirit-bottle
was again brought into the drawing- room.

'Did you call at the Admiralty, sir, as you came through town?' said Alaric.

'Call at the Admiralty, sir!' said the captain, turning sharply round at the questioner; 'what
the deuce should I call at the Admiralty for? craving the ladies' pardon.'

'Well, indeed, I don't know,' said Alaric, not a bit abashed. 'But sailors always do call there,
for the pleasure, I suppose, of kicking their heels in the lords' waiting-room.'

'I have done with that game,' said Captain Cuttwater, now wide awake; and in his energy he
poured half a glass more rum into his beaker. 'I've done with that game, and I'll tell you
what, Mr. Tudor, if I had a dozen sons to provide for to-morrow--'

'Oh, I do so wish you had,' said Katie; 'it would be such fun. Fancy Uncle Bat having twelve
sons, Gertrude. What would you call them all, uncle?'

'Why, I tell you what, Miss Katie, I wouldn't call one of them a sailor. I'd sooner make tailors
of them.'

'Tinker, tailor, soldier, sailor, gentleman, apothecary, ploughboy, thief,' said Katie. 'That
would only be eight; what should the other four be, uncle?'

'You're quite right, Captain Cuttwater,' said Alaric, 'at least as far as the present moment
goes; but the time is coming when things at the Admiralty will be managed very differently.'

'Then I'm d----- if that time can come too soon--craving the ladies' pardon!' said Uncle Bat.

'I don't know what you mean, Alaric,' said Harry Norman, who was just at present somewhat disposed
to contradict his friend, and not ill-inclined to contradict the captain also; 'as far as I
can judge, the Admiralty is the very last office the Government will think of touching.'

'The Government!' shouted Captain Cuttwater; 'oh! if we are to wait for the Government, the
navy may go to the deuce, sir.'

'It's the pressure from without that must do the work,' said Alaric.

'Pressure from without!' said Norman, scornfully; 'I hate to hear such trash.'

'We'll see, young gentleman, we'll see,' said the captain; 'it may be trash, and it may be
right that five fellows who never did the Queen a day's service in their life, should get fifteen
hundred or two thousand a year, and have the power of robbing an old sailor like me of the
reward due to me for sixty years' hard work. Reward! no; but the very wages that I have actually
earned. Look at me now, d--- me, look at me! Here I am, Captain Cuttwater--with sixty years'
service--and I've done more perhaps for the Queen's navy than--than--'

'It's too true, Captain Cuttwater,' said Alaric, speaking with a sort of mock earnestness which
completely took in the captain, but stealing a glance at the same time at the two girls, who
sat over their work at the drawing-room table, 'it's too true; and there's no doubt the whole
thing must be altered, and that soon. In the first place, we must have a sailor at the head
of the navy.'

'Yes,' said the captain, 'and one that knows something about it too.'

'You'll never have a sailor sitting as first lord,' said Norman, authoritatively; 'unless it
be when some party man, high in rank, may happen to have been in the navy as a boy.'

'And why not?' said Captain Cuttwater quite angrily.

'Because the first lord must sit in the Cabinet, and to do that he must be a thorough politician.'

'D----- politicians! craving the ladies' pardon,' said Uncle Bat.

'Amen!' said Alaric.

Uncle Bat, thinking that he had thoroughly carried his point, finished his grog, took up his
candlestick, and toddled off to bed.

'Well, I think I have done something towards carrying my point,' said Alaric.

'I didn't think you were half so cunning,' said Linda, laughing.

'I cannot think how you can condescend to advocate opinions diametrically opposed to your own
convictions,' said Norman, somewhat haughtily.

'Fee, fo, fum!' said Alaric.

'What is it all about?' said Mrs. Woodward.

'Alaric wants to do all he can to ingratiate himself with Uncle Bat,' said Gertrude; 'and I
am sure he's going the right way to work,'

'It's very good-natured on his part,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'I don't know what you are talking about,' said Katie, yawning, 'and I think you are all very
stupid; so I'll go to bed.'

The rest soon followed her. They did not sit up so late chatting over the fire this evening,
as was their wont on Saturdays, though none of them knew what cause prevented it.

CHAPTER V

BUSHEY PARK

The next day being Sunday, the whole party very properly went to church; but during the sermon
Captain Cuttwater very improperly went to sleep, and snored ponderously the whole time. Katie
was so thoroughly shocked that she did not know which way to look; Norman, who had recovered
his good-humour, and Alaric, could not refrain from smiling as they caught the eyes of the
two girls; and Mrs. Woodward made sundry little abortive efforts to wake her uncle with her
foot. Altogether abortive they were not, for the captain would open his eyes and gaze at her
for a moment in the most good-natured, lack-lustre manner conceivable; but then, in a moment,
he would be again asleep and snoring, with all the regularity of a kitchen-clock. This was
at first very dreadful to the Woodwards; but after a month or two they got used to it, and
so apparently did the pastor and the people of Hampton.

After church there was a lunch of course; and then, according to their wont, they went out
to walk. These Sunday walks in general were matters of some difficulty. The beautiful neighbourhood
of Hampton Court, with its palace-gardens and lovely park, is so popular with Londoners that
it is generally alive on that day with a thronged multitude of men, women, and children, and
thus becomes not an eligible resort for lovers of privacy. Captain Cuttwater, however, on this
occasion, insisted on seeing the chestnuts and the crowd, and consequently, they all went into
Bushey Park.

Uncle Bat, who professed himself to be a philanthropist, and who was also a bit of a democrat,
declared himself delighted with what he saw. It was a great thing for the London citizens to
come down there with their wives and children, and eat their dinners in the open air under
the spreading trees; and both Harry and Alaric agreed with him. Mrs. Woodward, however, averred
that it would be much better if they would go to church first, and Gertrude and Linda were
of opinion that the Park was spoilt by the dirty bits of greasy paper which were left about
on all sides. Katie thought it very hard that, as all the Londoners were allowed to eat their
dinners in the Park, she might not have hers there also. To which Captain Cuttwater rejoined
that he should give them a picnic at Richmond before the summer was over.

All the world knows how such a party as that of our friends by degrees separates itself into
twos and threes, when sauntering about in shady walks. It was seldom, indeed, that Norman could
induce his Dulcinea to be so complaisant in his favour; but either accident or kindness on
her part favoured him on this occasion, and as Katie went on eliciting from Uncle Bat fresh
promises as to the picnic, Harry and Gertrude found themselves together under one avenue of
trees, while Alaric and Linda were equally fortunate, or unfortunate, under another.

'I did so wish to speak a few words to you, Gertrude,' said Norman; 'but it seems as though,
now that this captain has come among us, all our old habits and ways are to be upset.'

'I don't see that you need say that,' said she. 'We may, perhaps, be put out a little--that
is, mamma and Linda and I; but I do not see that you need suffer.'

'Suffer--no, not suffer--and yet it is suffering.'

'What is suffering?' said she.

'Why, to be as we were last night--not able to speak to each other.'

'Come, Harry, you should be a little reasonable,' said she, laughing. 'If you did not talk
last night whose fault was it?'

'I suppose you will say it was my own. Perhaps it was. But I could not feel comfortable while
he was drinking gin-and-water--'

'It was rum,' said Gertrude, rather gravely.

'Well, rum-and-water in your mother's drawing-room, and cursing and swearing before you and
Linda, as though he were in the cockpit of a man-of-war.'

'Alaric you saw was able to make himself happy, and I am sure he is not more indifferent to
us than you are.'

'Alaric seemed to me to be bent on making a fool of the old man; and, to tell the truth, I
cannot approve of his doing so.'

'It seems to me, Harry, that you do not approve of what any of us are doing,' said she; 'I
fear we are all in your black books-- Captain Cuttwater, and mamma, and Alaric, and I, and
all of us.'

'Well now, Gertrude, do you mean to say you think it right that Katie should sit by and hear
a man talk as Captain Cuttwater talked last night? Do you mean to say that the scene which
passed, with the rum and the curses, and the absurd ridicule which was thrown on your mother's
uncle, was such as should take place in your mother's drawing-room?'

'I mean to say, Harry, that my mother is the best and only judge of what should, and what should
not, take place there.'

Norman felt himself somewhat silenced by this, and walked on for a time without speaking. He
was a little too apt to take upon himself the character of Mentor; and, strange to say, he
was aware of his own fault in this particular. Thus, though the temptation to preach was very
powerful, he refrained himself for a while. His present desire was to say soft things rather
than sharp words; and though lecturing was at this moment much easier to him than love-making,
he bethought himself of his object, and controlled the spirit of morality which was strong
within him.

'But we were so happy before your uncle came,' he said, speaking with his sweetest voice, and
looking at the beautiful girl beside him with all the love he was able to throw into his handsome
face.

'And we are happy now that he has come--or at any rate ought to be,' said Gertrude, doing a
little in the Mentor line herself, now that the occasion came in her way.

'Ah! Gertrude, you know very well there is only one thing can make me happy,' said Harry.

'Why, you unreasonable man! just now you said you were perfectly happy before Captain Cuttwater
came, I suppose the one thing now necessary is to send him away again.'

'No, Gertrude, the thing necessary is to take you away.'

'What! out of the contamination of poor old Uncle Bat's bottle of rum? But, Harry, you see
it would be cowardly in me to leave mamma and Linda to suffer the calamity alone.'

'I wonder, Gertrude, whether, in your heart of hearts, you really care a straw about me,' said
Harry, who was now very sentimental and somewhat lachrymose.

'You know we all care very much about you, and it is very wrong in you to express such a doubt,'
said Gertrude, with a duplicity that was almost wicked; as if she did not fully understand
that the kind of 'caring' of which Norman spoke was of a very different nature from the general
'caring' which she, on his behalf, shared with the rest of her family.

'All of you--yes, but I am not speaking of all of you; I am speaking of you, Gertrude--you
in particular. Can you ever love me well enough to be my wife?'

'Well, there is no knowing what I may be able to do in three or four years' time; but even
that must depend very much on how you behave yourself in the mean time. If you get cross because
Captain Cuttwater has come here, and snub Alaric and Linda, as you did last night, and scold
at mamma because she chooses to let her own uncle live in her own house, why, to tell you the
truth, I don't think I ever shall.'

All persons who have a propensity to lecture others have a strong constitutional dislike to
being lectured themselves. Such was decidedly the case with Harry Norman. In spite of his strong
love, and his anxious desire to make himself agreeable, his brow became somewhat darkened,
and his lips somewhat compressed. He would not probably have been annoyed had he not been found
fault with for snubbing his friend Tudor. Why should Gertrude, his Gertrude, put herself forward
to defend his friend? Let her say what she chose for her mother, or even for her profane, dram-
drinking, vulgar old uncle, but it was too much that she should take up the cudgels for Alaric
Tudor.

'Well,' said he, 'I was annoyed last night, and I must own it. It grieved me to hear Alaric
turning your uncle into ridicule, and that before your mother's face; and it grieved me to
see you and Linda encourage him. In what Alaric said about the Admiralty he did not speak truthfully.'

'Do you mean to say that Alaric said what was false?'

'Inasmuch as he was pretending to express his own opinion, he did say what was false.'

'Then I must and will say that I never yet knew Alaric say a word that was not true; and, which
is more, I am quite sure that he would not accuse you of falsehood behind your back in a fit
of jealousy.'

'Jealousy!' said Norman, looking now as black as grim death itself.

'Yes, it is jealousy. It so turned out that Alaric got on better last night with Captain Cuttwater
than you did, and that makes you jealous.'

'Pish!' said Norman, somewhat relieved, but still sufficiently disgusted that his lady-love
should suppose that he could be otherwise than supremely indifferent to the opinion of Captain
Cuttwater.

The love-scene, however, was fatally interrupted; and the pair were not long before they joined
the captain, Mrs. Woodward, and Katie.

And how fared it with the other pair under the other avenue of chestnuts?

Alaric Tudor had certainly come out with no defined intention of making love as Harry Norman
had done; but with such a companion it was very difficult for him to avoid it. Linda was much
more open to attacks of this nature than her sister. Not that she was as a general rule willingly
and wilfully inclined to give more encouragement to lovers than Gertrude; but she had less
power of fence, less skill in protecting herself, and much less of that naughty self-esteem
which makes some women fancy that all love- making to them is a liberty, and the want of which
makes others feel that all love-making is to them a compliment.

Alaric Tudor had no defined intention of making love; but he had a sort of suspicion that he
might, if he pleased, do so successfully; and he had no defined intention of letting it alone.
He was a far-seeing, prudent man; for his age perhaps too prudent; but he was nevertheless
fully susceptible of the pleasure of holding an affectionate, close intercourse with so sweet
a girl as Linda Woodward; and though he knew that marriage with a girl without a dowry would
for him be a death-blow to all his high hopes, he could hardly resist the temptation of conjugating
the verb to love. Had he been able to choose from the two sisters, he would probably have selected
Gertrude in spite of what he had said to Norman in the boat; but Gertrude was bespoken; and
it therefore seemed all but unnatural that there should not be some love passages between him
and Linda.

Ah! Mrs. Woodward, my friend, my friend, was it well that thou shouldst leave that sweet unguarded
rosebud of thine to such perils as these?

They, also, commenced their wooing by talking over Captain Cuttwater; but they did not quarrel
over him. Linda was quite content to be told by her friend what she ought to do, and how she
ought to think about her uncle; and Alaric had a better way of laying down the law than Norman.
He could do so without offending his hearer's pride, and consequently was generally better
listened to than his friend, though his law was probably not in effect so sound.

But they had soon done with Captain Cuttwater, and Alaric had to choose another subject. Gertrude
and Norman were at some distance from them, but were in sight and somewhat in advance.

'Look at Harry,' said Alaric; 'I know from the motion of his shoulder that he is at this moment
saying something very tender.'

'It is ten times more likely that they are quarrelling,' said Linda.

'Oh! the quarrels of lovers--we know all about that, don't we?'

'You must not call them lovers, Alaric; mamma would not like it, nor indeed would Gertrude,
I am sure.'

'I would not for the world do anything that Mrs. Woodward would not like; but between ourselves,
Linda, are they not lovers?'

'No; that is, not that I know of. I don't believe that they are a bit,' said Linda, blushing
at her own fib.

'And why should they not be? How indeed is it possible that they should not be; that is--for
I heartily beg Gertrude's pardon--how is it possible that Harry should not be in love with her?'

'Indeed, Gertrude is very, very beautiful,' said Linda, with the faintest possible sigh, occasioned
by the remembrance of her own inferior charms.

'Indeed she is, very, very beautiful,' repeated Alaric, speaking with an absent air as though
his mind were fully engaged in thinking of the beauty of which he spoke.

It was not in Linda's nature to be angry because her sister was admired, and because she was
not. But yet there was something in Alaric's warm tone of admiration which gave her a feeling
of unhappiness which she would have been quite unable to define, even had she attempted it.
She saw her sister and Harry Norman before her, and she knew in her heart that they were lovers,
in spite of her little weak declaration to the contrary. She saw how earnestly her sister was
loved, and she in her kindly loving nature could not but envy her fancied happiness. Envy--no--it
certainly was not envy. She would not for worlds have robbed her sister of her admirer; but
it was so natural for her to feel that it must be delicious to be admired!

She did not begrudge Gertrude Norman's superior beauty, nor his greater wealth; she knew that
Gertrude was entitled to more, much more, than herself. But seeing that Norman was Gertrude's
lover, was it not natural that Alaric should be hers? And then, though Harry was the handsomer
and the richer, she liked Alaric so much the better of the two. But now that Alaric was alone
with her, the only subject he could think to talk of was Gertrude's beauty!

It must not be supposed that these thoughts in their plainly- developed form passed through
Linda's mind. It was not that she thought all this, but that she felt it. Such feelings are
quite involuntary, whereas one's thoughts are more or less under command. Linda would not have
allowed herself to think in this way for worlds; but she could not control her feelings.

They walked on side by side, perfectly silent for a minute or two, and an ill-natured tear
was gathering itself in the corner of Linda's eye: she was afraid even to raise her hand to
brush it away, for fear Alaric should see her, and thus it went on gathering till it was like
to fall.

'How singular it is,' said Alaric--'how very singular, the way in which I find myself living
with you all! such a perfect stranger as I am.'

'A perfect stranger!' said Linda, who, having remembered Alaric since the days of her short
frocks and lessons, looked on him as a very old friend indeed.

'Yes, a perfect stranger, if you think of it. What do any of you know about me? Your mother
never saw my mother; your father knew nothing of my father; there is no kindred blood common
to us. Harry Norman, there, is your near cousin; but what am I that I should be thus allowed
to live with you, and walk with you, and have a common interest in all your doings?'

'Why, you are a dear friend of mamma's, are you not?'

'A dear friend of mamma's! said he, 'well, indeed, I hope I am; for your mother is at any rate
a dear friend to me. But, Linda, one cannot be so much without longing to be more. Look at
Harry, how happy he is!'

'But, Alaric, surely you would not interfere with Harry,' said Linda, whose humble, innocent
heart thought still of nothing but the merits of her sister; and then, remembering that it
was necessary that she should admit nothing on Gertrude's behalf, she entered her little protest
against the assumption that her sister acknowledged Norman for her lover. 'That is, you would
not do so, if there were anything in it.'

'I interfere with Harry!' said Alaric, switching the heads off the bits of fern with the cane
he carried. 'No, indeed. I have no wish at all to do that. It is not that of which I was thinking.
Harry is welcome to all his happiness; that is, if Gertrude can be brought to make him happy.'

Linda, made no answer now; but the tear came running down her face, and her eyes became dim,
and her heart beat very quick, and she didn't quite remember where she was. Up to this moment
no man had spoken a word of love to Linda Woodward, and to some girls the first word is very
trying.

'Interfere with Harry!' Alaric repeated again, and renewed his attack on the ferns. 'Well,
Linda, what an opinion you must have of me!'

Linda was past answering; she could not protest--nor would it have been expedient to do so--that
her opinion of her companion was not unfavourable.

'Gertrude is beautiful, very beautiful,' he continued, still beating about the bush as modest
lovers do, and should do; 'but she is not the only beautiful girl in Surbiton Cottage, nor
to my eyes is she the most so.'

Linda was now quite beside herself. She knew that decorum required that she should say something
stiff and stately to repress such language, but if all her future character for propriety had
depended on it, she could not bring herself to say a word. She knew that Gertrude, when so
addressed, would have maintained her dignity, and have concealed her secret, even if she allowed
herself to have a secret to conceal. She knew that it behoved her to be repellent and antagonistic
to the first vows of a first lover. But, alas! she had no power of antagonism, no energy for
repulse left in her. Her knees seemed to be weak beneath her, and all she could do was to pluck
to pieces the few flowers that she carried at her waist.

Alaric saw his advantage, but was too generous to push it closely; nor indeed did he choose
to commit himself to all the assured intentions of a positive declaration. He wished to raise
an interest in Linda's heart, and having done so, to leave the matter to chance. Something,
however, it was necessary that he should say. He walked a while by her in silence, decapitating
the ferns, and then coming close to her, he said--

'Linda, dear Linda! you are not angry with me?' Linda, however, answered nothing. 'Linda, dearest
Linda! speak one word to me.'

'Don't!' said Linda through her tears. 'Pray don't, Alaric; pray don't.'

'Well, Linda, I will not say another word to you now. Let us walk gently; we shall catch them
up quite in time before they leave the park.'

And so they sauntered on, exchanging no further words. Linda by degrees recovered her calmness,
and as she did so, she found herself to be, oh! so happy. She had never, never envied Gertrude
her lover; but it was so sweet, so very sweet, to be able to share her sister's happiness.
And Alaric, was he also happy? At the moment he doubtless enjoyed the triumph of his success.
But still he had a feeling of sad care at his heart. How was he to marry a girl without a shilling?
Were all his high hopes, was all his soaring ambition, to be thrown over for a dream of love?

Ah! Mrs. Woodward, my friend, my friend, thou who wouldst have fed thy young ones, like the
pelican, with blood from thine own breast, had such feeding been of avail; thou who art the
kindest of mothers; has it been well for thee to subject to such perils this poor weak young
dove of thine?

Uncle Bat had become tired with his walk, and crawled home so slowly that Alaric and Linda
caught the party just as they reached the small wicket which leads out of the park on the side
nearest to Hampton. Nothing was said or thought of their absence, and they all entered the
house together. Four of them, however, were conscious that that Sunday's walk beneath the chestnuts
of Bushey Park would long be remembered.

Nothing else occurred to make the day memorable. In the evening, after dinner, Mrs. Woodward
and her daughters went to church, leaving her younger guests to entertain the elder one. The
elder one soon took the matter in his own hand by going to sleep; and Harry and Alaric being
thus at liberty, sauntered out down the river side. They both made a forced attempt at good-humour,
each speaking cheerily to the other; but there was no confidence between them as there had
been on that morning when Harry rowed his friend up to London. Ah me! what had occurred between
them to break the bonds of their mutual trust--to quench the ardour of their firm friendship?
But so it was between them now. It was fated that they never again should place full confidence
in each other.

There was no such breach between the sisters, at least not as yet; but even between them there
was no free and full interchange of their hopes and fears. Gertrude and Linda shared the same
room, and were accustomed--as what girls are not?--to talk half through the night of all their
wishes, thoughts, and feelings. And Gertrude was generally prone enough to talk of Harry Norman.
Sometimes she would say she loved him a little, just a little; at others she would declare
that she loved him not at all--that is, not as heroines love in novels, not as she thought
she could love, and would do, should it ever be her lot to be wooed by such a lover as her
young fancy pictured to her. Then she would describe her beau ideal, and the description certainly
gave no counterpart of Harry Norman. To tell the truth, however, Gertrude was as yet heart
whole; and when she talked of love and Harry Norman, she did not know what love was.

On this special Sunday evening she was disinclined to speak of him at all. Not that she loved
him more than usual, but that she was beginning to think that she could not ever really love
him at all. She had taught herself to think that he might probably be her husband, and had
hitherto felt no such repugnance to her destiny as caused her to shun the subject. But now
she was beginning to think of the matter seriously; and as she did so, she felt that life might
have for her a lot more blessed than that of sharing the world with her cousin Harry.

When, therefore, Linda began to question her about her lover, and to make little hints of her
desire to tell what Alaric had said of her and Norman, Gertrude gave her no encouragement.
She would speak of Captain Cuttwater, of Katie's lessons, of the new dress they were to make
for their mother, of Mr. Everscreech's long sermon, of anything in fact but of Harry Norman.

Now this was very hard on poor Linda. Her heart was bursting within her to tell her sister
that she also was beloved; but she could not do so without some little encouragement.

In all their conferences she took the cue of the conversation from her sister; and though she
could have talked about Alaric by the hour, if Gertrude would have consented to talk about
Harry, she did not know how to start the subject of her own lover, while Gertrude was so cold
and uncommunicative as to hers. She struggled very hard to obtain the privilege for which she
so anxiously longed; but in doing so she only met with a sad and sore rebuff.

'Gertrude,' at last said Linda, when Gertrude thought that the subject had been put to rest
at any rate for that night, 'don't you think mamma would be pleased if she knew that you had
engaged yourself to Harry Norman?'

'No,' said Gertrude, evincing her strong mind by the tone in which she spoke; 'I do not. If
mamma wished it, she would have told me; for she never has any secrets. I should be as wrong
to engage myself with Harry as you would be with Alaric. For though Harry has property of his
own, while poor Alaric has none, he has a very insufficient income for a married man, and I
have no fortune with which to help him. If nothing else prevented it, I should consider it
wicked in me to make myself a burden to a man while he is yet so young and comparatively so poor.'

Prudent, sensible, high-minded, well-disciplined Gertrude! But had her heart really felt a
spark of love for the man of whom she spoke, how much would prudent, sensible, high-minded
considerations have weighed with her? Alas! not a feather.

Having made her prudent, high-minded speech, she turned round and slept; and poor Linda also
turned round and bedewed her pillow. She no longer panted to tell her sister of Alaric's love.

On the next morning the two young men returned to town, and the customary dullness of the week
began.

CHAPTER VI

SIR GREGORY HARDLINES

Great changes had been going on at the Weights and Measures; or rather it might be more proper
to say that great changes were now in progress. From that moment in which it had been hinted
to Mr. Hardlines that he must relax the rigour of his examinations, he had pondered deeply
over the matter. Hitherto he had confined his efforts to his own office, and, so far from feeling
personally anxious for the amelioration of the Civil Service generally, had derived no inconsiderable
share of his happiness from the knowledge that there were such sinks of iniquity as the Internal
Navigation. To be widely different from others was Mr. Hardlines' glory. He was, perhaps, something
of a Civil Service Pharisee, and wore on his forehead a broad phylactery, stamped with the
mark of Crown property. He thanked God that he was not as those publicans at Somerset House,
and took glory to himself in paying tithes of official cumin.

But now he was driven to a wider range. Those higher Pharisees who were above him in his own
pharisaical establishment, had interfered with the austerity of his worship. He could not turn
against them there, on their own ground. He, of all men, could not be disobedient to official
orders. But if he could promote a movement beyond the walls of the Weights and Measures; if
he could make Pharisees of those benighted publicans in the Strand; if he could introduce conic
sections into the Custom House, and political economy into the Post Office; if, by any effort
of his, the Foreign Office clerks could be forced to attend punctually at ten; and that wretched
saunterer, whom five days a week he saw lounging into the Council Office--if he could be made
to mend his pace, what a wide field for his ambition would Mr. Hardlines then have found!

Great ideas opened themselves to his mind as he walked to and from his office daily. What if
he could become the parent of a totally different order of things! What if the Civil Service,
through his instrumentality, should become the nucleus of the best intellectual diligence in
the country, instead of being a byword for sloth and ignorance! Mr. Hardlines meditated deeply
on this, and, as he did so, it became observed on all sides that he was an altered man as regarded
his solicitude for the Weights and Measures. One or two lads crept in, by no means conspicuous
for their attainments in abstract science; young men, too, were observed to leave not much
after four o'clock, without calling down on themselves Mr. Hardlines' usual sarcasm. Some said
he was growing old, others that he was broken-hearted. But Mr. Hardlines was not old, nor broken
in heart or body. He was thinking of higher things than the Weights and Measures, and at last
he published a pamphlet.

Mr. Hardlines had many enemies, all in the Civil Service, one of the warmest of whom was Mr.
Oldeschole, of the Navigation, and at first they rejoiced greatly that Job's wish had been
accomplished on their behalf, and that their enemy had written a book. They were down on Mr.
Hardlines with reviews, counter pamphlets, official statements, and indignant contradiction;
but Mr. Hardlines lived through this storm of missiles, and got his book to be feted and made
much of by some Government pundits, who were very bigwigs indeed. And at last he was invited
over to the building on the other side, to discuss the matter with a President, a Secretary
of State, a Lord Commissioner, two joint Secretaries, and three Chairmen.

And then, for a period of six months, the light of Mr. Hardlines' face ceased to shine on the
children of the Weights and Measures, and they felt, one and all, that the glory had in a certain
measure departed from their house. Now and again Mr. Hardlines would look in, but he did so
rather as an enemy than as a friend. There was always a gleam of antagonistic triumph in his
eye, which showed that he had not forgotten the day when he was called in question for his
zeal. He was felt to be in opposition to his own Board, rather than in co-operation with it.
The Secretary and the Assistant-Secretaries would say little caustic things about him to the
senior clerks, and seemed somewhat to begrudge him his new honours. But for all this Mr. Hardlines
cared little. The President and the Secretary of State, the joint Secretaries and the Chairmen,
all allowed themselves to be led by him in this matter. His ambition was about to be gratified.
It was his destiny that he should remodel the Civil Service. What was it to him whether or
no one insignificant office would listen to his charming? Let the Secretary at the Weights
and Measures sneer as he would; he would make that hero of the metallic currency know that
he, Mr. Hardlines, was his master.

At the end of six months his budding glory broke out into splendid, full-blown, many-coloured
flowers. He resigned his situation at the Weights and Measures, and was appointed Chief Commissioner
of the Board of Civil Service Examination, with a salary of L2,000 a year; he was made a K.C.B.,
and shone forth to the world as Sir Gregory Hardlines; and he received a present of L1,000,
that happy ne plus ultra of Governmental liberality. Sir Gregory Hardlines was forced to acknowledge
to himself that he was born to a great destiny.

When Sir Gregory, as we must now call him, was first invited to give his attendance at another
office, he found it expedient to take with him one of the young men from the Weights and Measures,
and he selected Alaric Tudor. Now this was surprising to many, for Tudor had been brought into
the office not quite in accordance with Sir Gregory's views. But during his four years of service
Alaric had contrived to smooth down any acerbity which had existed on this score; either the
paper on the strike-bushel, or his own general intelligence, or perhaps a certain amount of
flattery which he threw into his daily intercourse with the chief clerk, had been efficacious,
and when Sir Gregory was called upon to select a man to take with him to his new temporary
office, he selected Alaric Tudor.

The main effect which such selection had upon our story rises from the circumstance that it
led to an introduction between Tudor and the Honourable Undecimus Scott, and that this introduction
brought about a close alliance.

We will postpone for a short while such description of the character and position of this gentleman
as it may be indispensable to give, and will in this place merely say that the Honourable Undecimus
Scott had been chosen to act as secretary to the temporary commission that was now making inquiry
as to the proposed Civil Service examinations, and that in this capacity he was necessarily
thrown into communication with Tudor. He was a man who had known much of officialities, had
filled many situations, was acquainted with nearly all the secretaries, assistant-secretaries,
and private secretaries in London, had been in Parliament, and was still hand-and-glove with
all young members who supported Government. Tudor, therefore, thought it a privilege to know
him, and allowed himself to become, in a certain degree, subject to his influence.

When it was declared to the world of Downing Street that Sir Gregory Hardlines was to be a
great man, to have an office of his own, and to reign over assistant-commissioners and subject
secretaries, there was great commotion at the Weights and Measures; and when his letter of
resignation was absolutely there, visible to the eyes of clerks, properly docketed and duly
minuted, routine business was, for a day, nearly suspended. Gentlemen walked in and out from
each other's rooms, asking this momentous question--Who was to fill the chair which had so
long been honoured by the great Hardlines? Who was to be thought worthy to wear that divine mantle?

But even this was not the question of the greatest moment which at that period disturbed the
peace of the office. It was well known that the chief clerk must be chosen from one of the
three senior clerks, and that he would be so chosen by the voice of the Commissioners. There
were only three men who were deeply interested in this question. But who would then be the
new senior clerk, and how would he be chosen? A strange rumour began to be afloat that the
new scheme of competitive examination was about to be tried in filling up this vacancy, occasioned
by the withdrawal of Sir Gregory Hardlines. From hour to hour the rumour gained ground, and
men's minds began to be much disturbed.

It was no wonder that men's minds should be disturbed. Competitive examinations at eighteen,
twenty, and twenty-two may be very well, and give an interesting stimulus to young men at college.
But it is a fearful thing for a married man with a family, who has long looked forward to rise
to a certain income by the worth of his general conduct and by the value of his seniority--it
is a fearful thing for such a one to learn that he has again to go through his school tricks,
and fill up examination papers, with all his juniors round him using their stoutest efforts
to take his promised bread from out of his mouth. Detur digno is a maxim which will make men
do their best to merit rewards; every man can find courage within his heart to be worthy; but
detur digniori is a fearful law for such a profession as the Civil Service. What worth can
make a man safe against the possible greater worth which will come treading on his heels? The
spirit of the age raises, from year to year, to a higher level the standard of education. The
prodigy of 1857, who is now destroying all the hopes of the man who was well enough in 1855,
will be a dunce to the tyro of 1860.

There were three or four in the Weights and Measures who felt all this with the keenest anxiety.
The fact of their being there, and of their having passed the scrutiny of Mr. Hardlines, was
proof enough that they were men of high attainments; but then the question arose to them and
others whether they were men exactly of those attainments which were now most required. Who
is to say what shall constitute the merits of the dignior? It may one day be conic sections,
another Greek iambics, and a third German philosophy. Rumour began to say that foreign languages
were now very desirable. The three excellent married gentlemen who stood first in succession
for the coveted promotion were great only in their vernacular.

Within a week from the secession of Sir Gregory, his immediate successor had been chosen, and
it had been officially declared that the vacant situation in the senior class was to be thrown
open as a prize for the best man in the office. Here was a brilliant chance for young merit!
The place was worth L600 a- year, and might be gained by any one who now received no more than
L100. Each person desirous of competing was to send in his name to the Secretary, on or before
that day fortnight; and on that day month, the candidates were to present themselves before
Sir Gregory Hardlines and his board of Commissioners.

And yet the joy of the office was by no means great. The senior of those who might become competitors,
was of course a miserable, disgusted man. He went about fruitlessly endeavouring to instigate
rebellion against Sir Gregory, that very Sir Gregory whom he had for many years all but worshipped.
Poor Jones was, to tell the truth, in a piteous case. He told the Secretary flatly that he
would not compete with a lot of boys fresh from school, and his friends began to think of removing
his razors. Nor were Brown and Robinson in much better plight. They both, it is true, hated
Jones ruthlessly, and desired nothing better than an opportunity of supplanting him. They were,
moreover, fast friends themselves; but not the less on that account had Brown a mortal fear
of Robinson, as also had Robinson a mortal fear of Brown.

Then came the bachelors. First there was Uppinall, who, when he entered the office, was supposed
to know everything which a young man had ever known. Those who looked most to dead knowledge
were inclined to back him as first favourite. It had, however, been remarked, that his utility
as a clerk had not been equal to the profundity of his acquirements. Of all the candidates
he was the most self-confident.

The next to him was Mr. A. Minusex, a wondrous arithmetician. He was one who could do as many
sums without pen and paper as a learned pig; who was so given to figures that he knew the number
of stairs in every flight he had gone up and down in the metropolis; one who, whatever the
subject before him might be, never thought but always counted. Many who knew the peculiar propensities
of Sir Gregory's earlier days thought that Mr. Minusex was not an unlikely candidate.

The sixth in order was our friend Norman. The Secretary and the two Assistant-Secretaries,
when they first put their heads together on the matter, declared that he was the most useful
man in the office.

There was a seventh, named Alphabet Precis. Mr. Precis' peculiar forte was a singular happiness
in official phraseology. Much that he wrote would doubtless have been considered in the purlieus
of Paternoster Row as ungrammatical, if not unintelligible; but according to the syntax of
Downing Street, it was equal to Macaulay, and superior to Gibbon. He had frequently said to
his intimate friends, that in official writing, style was everything; and of his writing it
certainly did form a very prominent part. He knew well, none perhaps so well, when to beg leave
to lay before the Board--and when simply to submit to the Commissioners. He understood exactly
to whom it behoved the secretary 'to have the honour of being a very humble servant,' and to
whom the more simple 'I am, sir,' was a sufficiently civil declaration. These are qualifications
great in official life, but were not quite so much esteemed at the time of which we are speaking
as they had been some few years previously.

There was but one other named as likely to stand with any probability of success, and he was
Alaric Tudor. Among the very juniors of the office he was regarded as the great star of the
office. There was a dash about him and a quick readiness for any work that came to hand in
which, perhaps, he was not equalled by any of his compeers. Then, too, he was the special friend
of Sir Gregory.

But no one had yet heard Tudor say that he intended to compete with his seven seniors--none
yet knew whether he would put himself forward as an adversary to his own especial friend, Norman.
That Norman would be a candidate had been prominently stated. For some few days not a word
was spoken, even between the friends themselves, as to Tudor's intention.

On the Sunday they were as usual at Hampton, and then the subject was mooted by no less a person
than Captain Cuttwater.

So you young gentlemen up in London are all going to be examined, are you?' said he; 'what
is it to be about? Who's to be first lieutenant of the ship, is that it?'

'Oh no,' said Alaric, 'nothing half so high as that. Boatswain's mate would be nearer the mark.'

'And who is to be the successful man?'

'Oh, Harry Norman, here. He was far the first favourite in yesterday's betting.'

And how do you stand yourself?' said Uncle Bat.

'Oh! I'm only an outsider,' said Alaric. 'They put my name down just to swell the number, but
I shall be scratched before the running begins.'

'Indeed he won't,' said Harry. 'He'll run and distance us all. There is no one who has a chance
with him. Why, he is Sir Gregory's own pet.'

There was nothing more said on the subject at Surbiton Cottage. The ladies seemed instinctively
to perceive that it was a matter which they had better leave alone. Not only were the two young
men to be pitted against each other, but Gertrude and Linda were as divided in their wishes
on the subject as the two candidates could be themselves.

On the following morning, however, Norman introduced the subject. 'I suppose you were only
jesting yesterday,' said he, 'when you told the captain that you were not going to be a candidate?'

'Indeed I can hardly say that I was in jest or in earnest,' said Alaric. 'I simply meant to
decline to discuss the subject with Uncle Bat.'

'But of course you do mean to stand?' said Harry. Alaric made no answer.

'Perhaps you would rather decline to discuss the matter with me also?' said Harry.

'Not at all; I would much prefer discussing it openly and honestly. My own impression is, that
I had better leave it alone.'

'And why so?' said Harry.

'Why so?' repeated Alaric. 'Well, there are so many reasons. In the first place, there would
be seven to one against me; and I must confess that if I did stand I should not like to be beaten.'

'The same argument might keep us all back,' said Norman.

'That's true; but one man will be more sensitive, more cowardly, if you will, than another;
and then I think no one should stand who does not believe himself to have a fair chance. His
doing so might probably mar his future prospects. How can I put myself in competition with
such men as Uppinall and Minuses?'

Harry laughed slightly, for he knew it had been asked by many how such men as Uppinall and
Minusex could think of putting themselves in competition with Alaric Tudor.

'That is something like mock-modesty, is it not, Alaric?'

'No, by heaven, it is not! I know well what those men are made of; and I know, or think I know,
my own abilities. I will own that I rank myself as a human creature much higher than I rank
them. But they have that which I have not, and that which they have is that which these examiners
will chiefly require.'

'If you have no other reason,' said Norman, 'I would strongly advise you to send in your name.'

'Well, Harry, I have another reason; and, though last, it is by no means the least. You will
be a candidate, and probably the successful one. To tell you the truth, I have no inclination
to stand against you.'

Norman turned very red, and then answered somewhat gravely: 'I would advise you to lay aside
that objection. I fairly tell you that I consider your chance better than my own.'

'And suppose it be so, which I am sure it is not--but suppose it be so, what then?'

'Why, you will do right to take advantage of it.'

'Yes, and so gain a step and lose a friend!' said Alaric. 'No; there can be no heartburn to
me in your being selected, for though I am older than you, you are my senior in the office.
But were I to be put over your head, it would in the course of nature make a division between
us; and if it were possible that you should forgive it, it would be quite impossible that Gertrude
should do so. I value your friendship and that of the Woodwards too highly to risk it.'

Norman instantly fired up with true generous energy. 'I should be wretched,' said he, 'if I
thought that such a consideration weighed with you; I would rather withdraw myself than allow
such a feeling to interfere with your prospects. Indeed, after what you have said, I shall
not send in my own name unless you also send in yours.'

'I shall only be creating fuel for a feud,' said Alaric. 'To put you out of the question, no
promotion could compensate to me for what I should lose at Hampton.'

'Nonsense, man; you would lose nothing. Faith, I don't know whether it is not I that should
lose, if I were successful at your expense.'

'How would Gertrude receive me?' said Alaric, pushing the matter further than he perhaps should
have done.

'We won't mind Gertrude,' said Norman, with a little shade of black upon his brow. 'You are
an older man than I, and therefore promotion is to you of more importance than to me. You are
also a poorer man. I have some means besides that drawn from my office, which, if I marry,
I can settle on my wife; you have none such. I should consider myself to be worse than wicked
if I allowed any consideration of such a nature to stand in the way of your best interests.
Believe me, Alaric, that though I shall, as others, be anxious for success myself, I should,
in failing, be much consoled by knowing that you had succeeded.' And as he finished speaking
he grasped his friend's hand warmly in token of the truth of his assertion.

Alaric brushed a tear from his eye, and ended by promising to be guided by his friend's advice.
Harry Norman, as he walked into the office, felt a glow of triumph as he reflected that he
had done his duty by his friend with true disinterested honesty. And Alaric, he also felt a
glow of triumph as he reflected that, come what might, there would be now no necessity for
him to break with Norman or with the Woodwards. Norman must now always remember that it was
at his own instigation that he, Alaric, had consented to be a candidate.

As regarded the real fact of the candidature, the prize was too great to allow of his throwing
away such a chance. Alaric's present income was L200; that which he hoped to gain was L600!

CHAPTER VII

MR. FIDUS NEVERBEND

Immediately on entering the office, Tudor gave it to be understood that he intended to give
in his name as a candidate; but he had hardly done so when his attention was called off from
the coming examinations by another circumstance, which was ultimately of great importance to
him. One of the Assistant- Secretaries sent for him, and told him that his services having
been required by Sir Gregory Hardlines for a week or so, he was at once to go over to that
gentleman's office; and Alaric could perceive that, as Sir Gregory's name was mentioned, the
Assistant-Secretary smiled on him with no aspect of benign solicitude.

He went over accordingly, and found that Sir Gregory, having been desired to select a man for
a special service in the country, had named him. He was to go down to Tavistock with another
gentleman from the Woods and Forests, for the purpose of settling some disputed point as to
the boundaries and privileges of certain mines situated there on Crown property.

'You know nothing about mining, I presume?' said Sir Gregory.

'Nothing whatever,' said Alaric.

'I thought not; that was one reason why I selected you. What is wanted is a man of sharp intelligence
and plain common sense, and one also who can write English; for it will fall to your lot to
draw up the report on the matter. Mr. Neverbend, who is to be your colleague, cannot put two
words together.'

'Mr. Neverbend!' said Alaric.

'Yes, Fidus Neverbend, of the Woods and Forests; a very excellent public servant, and one in
whom the fullest confidence can be placed. But between you and me, he will never set the Thames
on fire.'

'Does he understand mining?' asked Alaric.

'He understands Government properties, and will take care that the Crown be not wronged; but,
Tudor, the Government will look to you to get the true common-sense view of the case. I trust--I
mean that I really do trust, that you will not disgrace my choice.'

Alaric of course promised that he would do his best, expressed the deepest gratitude to his
patron, and went off to put himself into communication with Mr. Neverbend at the Woods and
Forests, having received an assurance that the examination in his own office should not take
place till after his return from Tavistock. He was not slow to perceive that if he could manage
to come back with all the eclat of a successful mission, the prestige of such a journey would
go far to assist him on his coming trial.

Mr. Fidus Neverbend was an absolute dragon of honesty. His integrity was of such an all-pervading
nature, that he bristled with it as a porcupine does with its quills. He had theories and axioms
as to a man's conduct, and the conduct especially of a man in the Queen's Civil Service, up
to which no man but himself could live. Consequently no one but himself appeared to himself
to be true and just in all his dealings.

A quarter of an hour spent over a newspaper was in his eyes a downright robbery. If he saw
a man so employed, he would divide out the total of salary into hourly portions, and tell him
to a fraction of how much he was defrauding the public. If he ate a biscuit in the middle of
the day, he did so with his eyes firmly fixed on some document, and he had never been known
to be absent from his office after ten or before four.

When Sir Gregory Hardlines declared that Mr. Fidus Neverbend would never set the Thames on
fire, he meant to express his opinion that that gentleman was a fool; and that those persons
who were responsible for sending Mr. Neverbend on the mission now about to be undertaken, were
little better than fools themselves for so sending him. But Mr. Neverbend was no fool. He was
not a disciple of Sir Gregory's school. He had never sat in that philosopher's porch, or listened
to the high doctrines prevalent at the Weights and Measures. He could not write with all Mr.
Precis' conventional correctness, or dispose of any subject at a moment's notice as would Mr.
Uppinall; but, nevertheless, he was no fool. Sir Gregory, like many other wise men, thought
that there were no swans but of his own hatching, and would ask, with all the pompous conceit
of Pharisees in another age, whether good could come out of the Woods and Forests?

Sir Gregory, however, perfectly succeeded in his object of imbuing Tudor with a very indifferent
opinion of his new colleague's abilities. It was his object that Tudor should altogether take
the upper hand in the piece of work which was to be done between them, and that it should be
clearly proved how very incapable the Woods and Forests were of doing their own business.

Mr. Fidus Neverbend, however, whatever others in the outer world might think of him, had a
high character in his own office, and did not under-estimate himself. He, when he was told
that a young clerk named Tudor was to accompany him, conceived that he might look on his companion
rather in the light of a temporary private secretary than an equal partner, and imagined that
new glory was added to him by his being so treated. The two men therefore met each other with
very different views.

But though Mr. Neverbend was no fool, he was not an equal either in tact or ability to Alaric
Tudor. Alaric had his interview with him, and was not slow to perceive the sort of man with
whom he had to act. Of course, on this occasion, little more than grimaces and civility passed
between them; but Mr. Neverbend, even in his grimaces and civility, managed to show that he
regarded himself as decidedly No. 1 upon the occasion.

'Well, Mr. Tudor,' said he, 'I think of starting on Tuesday. Tuesday will not, I suppose, be
inconvenient to you?'

'Sir Gregory has already told me that we are expected to be at Tavistock on Tuesday evening.'

'Ah! I don't know about that,' said Neverbend; 'that may be all very well for Sir Gregory,
but I rather think I shall stay the night at Plymouth.'

'It will be the same to me,' said Tudor; 'I haven't looked at the papers yet, so I can hardly
say what may be necessary.'

'No, no; of course not. As to the papers, I don't know that there is much with which you need
trouble yourself. I believe I am pretty well up in the case. But, Mr. Tudor, there will be
a good deal of writing to do when we are there.'

'We are both used to that, I fancy,' said Tudor, 'so it won't kill us.'

'No, of course not. I understand that there will be a good many people for me to see, a great
many conflicting interests for me to reconcile; and probably I may find myself obliged to go
down two or three of these mines.'

'Well, that will be good fun,' said Alaric.

Neverbend drew himself up. The idea of having fun at the cost of Government was painful to
him; however, he spared the stranger his reproaches, and merely remarked that the work he surmised
would be heavy enough both for the man who went below ground, and for the one who remained above.

The only point settled between them was that of their starting by an early train on the Tuesday
named; and then Alaric returned to Sir Gregory's office, there to read through and digest an
immense bulk of papers all bearing on the question at issue. There had, it appeared, been lately
opened between the Tamar and the Tavy a new mine, which had become exceedingly prosperous--outrageously
prosperous, as shareholders and directors of neighbouring mines taught themselves to believe.
Some question had arisen as to the limits to which the happy possessors of this new tin El
Dorado were entitled to go; squabbles, of course, had been the result, and miners and masters
had fought and bled, each side in defence of its own rights. As a portion of these mines were
on Crown property it became necessary that the matter should be looked to, and as the local
inspector was accused of having been bribed and bought, and of being, in fact, an absolute
official Judas, it became necessary to send some one to inspect the inspector. Hence had come
Alaric's mission. The name of the mine in question was Wheal Mary Jane, and Alaric had read
the denomination half a score of times before he learnt that there was no real female in the case.

The Sunday before he went was of course passed at Hampton, and there he received the full glory
of his special appointment. He received glory, and Norman in an equal degree fell into the
background. Mrs. Woodward stuck kindly to Harry, and endeavoured, in her gentle way, to quiz
the projected trip to Devonshire. But the other party was too strong, and her raillery failed
to have the intended effect. Gertrude especially expressed her opinion that it was a great
thing for so young a man to have been selected for such employment by such a person; and Linda,
though she said less, could not prevent her tell-tale face from saying more. Katie predicted
that Alaric would certainly marry Mary Jane Wheal, and bring her to Surbiton Cottage, and Captain
Cuttwater offered to the hero introductions to all the old naval officers at Devonport.

'By jingo! I should like to go with you,' said the captain.

'I fear the pleasure would not repay the trouble,' said Alaric, laughing.

'Upon my word I think I'll do it,' said the captain. 'It would be of the greatest possible
service to you as an officer of the Crown. It would give you so much weight there. I could
make you known, you know----'

'I could not hear of such a thing,' said Alaric, trembling at the idea which Uncle Bat had
conjured up.

'There is Admiral Starbod, and Captain Focassel, and old Hardaport, and Sir Jib Boom--why,
d--n me, they would all do anything for me--craving the ladies' pardon.'

Alaric, in his own defence, was obliged to declare that the rules of the service especially
required that he should hold no friendly communication with any one during the time that he
was employed on this special service. Poor Captain Cuttwater, grieved to have his good nature
checked, was obliged to put up with this excuse, and consoled himself with abusing the Government
which could condescend to give so absurd an order.

This was on the Saturday. On the Sunday, going to church, the captain suggested that Alaric
might, at any rate, just call upon Sir Jib on the sly. 'It would be a great thing for you,'
said Uncle Bat. 'I'll write a note to-night, and you can take it with you. Sir Jib is a rising
man, and you'll regret it for ever if you miss the opportunity.' Now Sir Jib Boom was between
seventy and eighty, and he and Captain Cuttwater had met each other nearly every day for the
last twenty years, and had never met without a squabble.

After church they had their usual walk, and Linda's heart palpitated as she thought that she
might have to undergo another tete-a-tete with her lover. But it palpitated in vain. It so
turned out that Alaric either avoided, or, at any rate, did not use the privilege, and Linda
returned home with an undefined feeling of gentle disappointment. She had fully made up her
mind to be very staid, very discreet, and very collected; to take a leaf out of her sister's
book, and give him no encouragement whatever; she would not absolutely swear to him that she
did not now, and never could, return his passion; but she would point out how very imprudent
any engagement between two young persons, situated as they were, must be--how foolish it would
be for them to bind themselves, for any number of years, to a marriage which must be postponed;
she would tell Alaric all this, and make him understand that he was not to regard himself as
affianced to her; but she with a woman's faith would nevertheless remain true to him. This
was Linda's great resolve, and the strong hope, that in a very few weeks, Alaric would be promoted
to a marrying income of L600 per annum, made the prospect of the task not so painful as it
might otherwise have been. Fate, however, robbed her of the pleasure, if it would have been
a pleasure, of sacrificing her love to her duty; and 'dear Linda, dearest Linda,' was not again
whispered into her ear.

'And what on earth is it that you are to do down in the mines?' asked Mrs. Woodward as they
sat together in the evening.

'Nothing on the earth, Mrs. Woodward--it is to be all below the surface, forty fathom deep,'
said Alaric.

'Take care that you ever come up again,' said she.

'They say the mine is exceedingly rich--perhaps I may be tempted to stay down there.'

'Then you'll be like the gloomy gnome, that lives in dark, cold mines,' said Katie.

'Isn't it very dangerous, going down into those places?' asked Linda.

'Men go down and come up again every day of their lives, and what other men can do, I can,
I suppose.'

'That doesn't follow at all,' said Captain Cuttwater, 'What sort of a figure would you make
on a yard-arm, reefing a sail in a gale of wind?'

'Pray do take care of yourself,' said Gertrude.

Norman's brow grew black. 'I thought that it was settled that Mr. Neverbend was to go down,
and that you were to stay above ground,' said he.

'So Mr. Neverbend settled it; but that arrangement may, perhaps, be unsettled again,' said
Alaric, with a certain feeling of confidence in his own strong will.

'I don't at all doubt,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'that if we were to get a sly peep at you, we should
find you both sitting comfortably at your inn all the time, and that neither of you will go
a foot below the ground.'

'Very likely. All I mean to say is, that if Neverbend goes down I'll go too.'

'But mind, you gloomy gnome, mind you bring up a bit of gold for me,' said Katie.

On the Monday morning he started with the often-expressed good wishes of all the party, and
with a note for Sir Jib Boom, which the captain made him promise that he would deliver, and
which Alaric fully determined to lose long before he got to Plymouth.

That evening he and Norman passed together. As soon as their office hours were over, they went
into the London Exhibition, which was then open; and there, walking up and down the long centre
aisle, they talked with something like mutual confidence of their future prospects. This was
a favourite resort with Norman, who had schooled himself to feel an interest in works of art.
Alaric's mind was of a different cast; he panted rather for the great than the beautiful; and
was inclined to ridicule the growing taste of the day for torsos, Palissy ware, and Assyrian
monsters.

There was then some mutual confidence between the two young men. Norman, who was apt to examine
himself and his own motives more strictly than Alaric ever did, had felt that something like
suspicion as to his friend had crept over him; and he had felt also that there was no ground
for such suspicion. He had determined to throw it off, and to be again cordial with his companion.
He had resolved so to do before his last visit at Hampton; but it was at Hampton that the suspicion
had been engendered, and there he found himself unable to be genial, kindly, and contented.
Surbiton Cottage was becoming to him anything but the abode of happiness that it had once been.
A year ago he had been the hero of the Hampton Sundays; he could not but now feel that Alaric
had, as it were, supplanted him with his own friends. The arrival even of so insignificant
a person as Captain Cuttwater--and Captain Cuttwater was very insignificant in Norman's mind--had
done much to produce this state of things. He had been turned out of his bedroom at the cottage,
and had therefore lost those last, loving, lingering words, sometimes protracted to so late
an hour, which had been customary after Alaric's departure to his inn--those last lingering
words which had been so sweet because their sweetness had not been shared with his friend.

He could not be genial and happy at Surbiton Cottage; but he was by no means satisfied with
himself that he should not have been so. When he found that he had been surly with Alaric,
he was much more angry with himself than Alaric was with him. Alaric, indeed, was indifferent
about it. He had no wish to triumph over Harry, but he had an object to pursue, and he was
not the man to allow himself to be diverted from it by any one's caprice.

'This trip is a great thing for you,' said Harry.

'Well, I really don't know. Of course I could not decline it; but on the whole I should be
just as well pleased to have been spared. If I get through it well, why it will be well. But
even that cannot help me at this examination.'

'I don't know that.'

'Why--a week passed in the slush of a Cornish mine won't teach a man algebra.'

'It will give you prestige.'

'Then you mean to say the examiners won't examine fairly; well, perhaps so. But what will be
the effect on me if I fail? I know nothing of mines. I have a colleague with me of whom I can
only learn that he is not weak enough to be led, or wise enough to lead; who is so self-opinionated
that he thinks he is to do the whole work himself, and yet so jealous that he fears I shall
take the very bread out of his mouth. What am I to do with such a man?'

'You must manage him,' said Harry.

'That is much easier said than done,' replied Alaric. 'I wish you had the task instead of me.'

'So do not I. Sir Gregory, when he chose you, knew what he was about.'

'Upon my word, Harry, you are full of compliments to-day. I really ought to take my hat off.'

'No, I am not; I am in no mood for compliments. I know very well what stuff you are made of.
I know your superiority to myself. I know you will be selected to go up over all our heads.
I feel all this; and Alaric, you must not be surprised that, to a certain degree, it is painful
to me to feel it. But, by God's help I will get over it; and if you succeed it shall go hard
with me, but I will teach myself to rejoice at it. Look at that fawn there,' said he, turning
away his face to hide the tear in his eye, 'did you ever see more perfect motion?'

Alaric was touched; but there was more triumph than sympathy in his heart. It was sweet, much
too sweet, to him to hear his superiority thus acknowledged. He was superior to the men who
worked round him in his office. He was made of a more plastic clay than they, and despite the
inferiority of his education, he knew himself to be fit for higher work than they could do.
As the acknowledgement was made to him by the man whom, of those around him, he certainly ranked
second to himself, he could not but feel that his heart's blood ran warm within him, he could
not but tread with an elastic step.

But it behoved him to answer Harry, and to answer him in other spirit than this.

'Oh, Harry,' said he, 'you have some plot to ruin me by my own conceit; to make me blow myself
out and destroy myself, poor frog that I am, in trying to loom as largely as that great cow,
Fidus Neverbend. You know I am fully conscious how much inferior my education has been to yours.'

'Education is nothing,' said Harry.

Education is nothing! Alaric triumphantly re-echoed the words in his heart--'Education is nothing--mind,
mind is everything; mind and the will.' So he expressed himself to his own inner self; but
out loud he spoke much more courteously.

'It is the innate modesty of your own heart, Harry, that makes you think so highly of me and
so meanly of yourself. But the proof of what we each can do is yet to be seen. Years alone
can decide that. That your career will be honourable and happy, of that I feel fully sure!
I wish I were as confident of mine.'

'But, Alaric,' said Norman, going on rather with the thread of his own thoughts, than answering
or intending to answer what the other said, 'in following up your high ambition--and I know
you have a high ambition--do not allow yourself to believe that the end justifies the means,
because you see that men around you act as though they believed so.'

'Do I do so--do I seem to do so?' said Alaric, turning sharply round.

'Don't be angry with me, Alaric; don't think that I want to preach; but sometimes I fancy,
not that you do so, but that your mind is turning that way; that in your eager desire for honourable
success you won't scrutinize the steps you will have to take.'

'That I would get to the top of the hill, in short, even though the hillside be miry. Well,
I own I wish to get to the top of the hill.'

'But not to defile yourself in doing so.'

'When a man comes home from a successful chase, with his bag well stuffed with game, the women
do not quarrel with him because there is mud on his gaiters.'

'Alaric, that which is evil is evil. Lies are evil--'

'And am I a liar?'

'Heaven forbid that I should say so: heaven forbid that I should have to think so! but it is
by such doctrines as that that men become liars.'

'What! by having muddy gaiters?'

'By disregarding the means in looking to the end.'

'And I will tell you how men become mere vegetables, by filling their minds with useless--needless
scruples--by straining at gnats--'

'Well, finish your quotation,' said Harry.

'I have finished it; in speaking to you I would not for the world go on, and seem to insinuate
that you would swallow a camel. No insinuation could be more base or unjust. But, nevertheless,
I think you may be too over-scrupulous. What great man ever rose to greatness,' continued Alaric,
after they had walked nearly the length of the building in silence, 'who thought it necessary
to pick his steps in the manner you have described?'

'Then I would not be great,' said Harry.

'But, surely, God intends that there shall be great men on the earth?'

'He certainly wishes that there should be good men,' said Harry.

'And cannot a man be good and great?'

'That is the problem for a man to solve. Do you try that. Good you certainly can be, if you
look to Him for assistance. Let that come first; and then the greatness, if that be possible.'

'It is all a quibble about a word,' said Alaric. 'What is good? David was a man after God's
own heart, and a great man too, and yet he did things which, were I to do, I should be too
base to live. Look at Jacob--how did he achieve the tremendous rights of patriarchal primogeniture?
But, come, the policemen are trying to get rid of us; it is time for us to go,' and so they
left the building, and passed the remainder of the evening in concord together--in concord
so soon to be dissolved, and, ah! perhaps never to be renewed.

On the next morning Alaric and his new companion met each other at an early hour at the Paddington
station. Neverbend was rather fussy with his dispatch-box, and a large official packet, which
an office messenger, dashing up in, a cab, brought to him at the moment of his departure. Neverbend's
enemies were wont to declare that a messenger, a cab, and a big packet always rushed up at
the moment of his starting on any of his official trips. Then he had his ticket to get and
his Times to buy, and he really had not leisure to do more than nod at Alaric till he had folded
his rug around him, tried that the cushion was soft enough, and completed his arrangements
for the journey.

'Well, Mr. Tudor,' at last he said, as soon as the train was in motion, 'and how are you this
morning--ready for work, I hope?'

'Well, not exactly at this moment,' said Alaric. 'One has to get up so early for these morning
trains.'

'Early, Mr. Tudor! my idea is that no hour should be considered either early or late when the
Crown requires our services.'

'Just at present the Crown requires nothing else of us, I suppose, but that we should go along
at the rate of forty miles an hour.'

'There is nothing like saving time,' said Neverbend. 'I know you have, as yet, had no experience
in these sort of cases, so I have brought you the papers which refer to a somewhat similar
matter that occurred in the Forest of Dean. I was sent down there, and that is the report which
I then wrote. I propose to take it for the model of that which we shall have to draw up when
we return from Tavistock;' and as he spoke he produced a voluminous document, or treatise,
in which he had contrived to render more obscure some matter that he had been sent to clear
up, on the Crown property in the Forest of Dean.

Now Alaric had been told of this very report, and was aware that he was going to Tavistock
in order that the joint result of his and Mr. Neverbend's labours might be communicated to
the Crown officers in intelligible language.

The monster report before him contained twenty-six pages of close folio writing, and he felt
that he really could not oblige Mr. Neverbend by reading it.

'Forest of Dean! ah, that's coal, is it not?' said Alaric. 'Mary Jane seems to be exclusively
in the tin line. I fear there will be no analogy.'

'The cases are in many respects similar,' said Neverbend, 'and the method of treating them----'

'Then I really cannot concur with you as to the propriety of my reading it. I should feel myself
absolutely wrong to read a word of such a report, for fear I might be prejudiced by your view
of the case. It would, in my mind, be positively dishonest in me to encourage any bias in my
own feelings either on one side or the other.'

'But really, Mr. Tudor----'

'I need not say how much personal advantage it would be to me to have the benefit of your experience,
but my conscience tells me that I should not do it--so I think I'll go to sleep.'

Mr. Neverbend did not know what to make of his companion; whether to admire the high tone of
his official honesty, or to reprobate his idleness in refusing to make himself master of the
report. While he was settling the question in his own mind, Tudor went to sleep, and did not
wake till he was invited to partake of ten minutes' refreshment at Swindon.

'I rather think,' said Mr. Neverbend, 'that I shall go on to Tavistock to-night.'

'Oh! of course,' said Alaric. 'I never for a moment thought of stopping short of it;' and,
taking out a book, he showed himself disinclined for further conversation.

'Of course, it's open to me to do as I please in such a matter,' said Neverbend, continuing
his subject as soon as they reached the Bristol station, 'but on the whole I rather think we
had better go on to Tavistock to-night.'

'No, I will not stop at Plymouth,' he said, as he passed by Taunton; and on reaching Exeter
he declared that he had fully made up his mind on the subject.

'We'll get a chaise at Plymouth,' said Alaric.

'I think there will be a public conveyance,' said Neverbend.

'But a chaise will be the quickest,' said the one.

'And much the dearest,' said the other.

'That won't signify much to us,' said Alaric; 'we shan't pay the bill.'

'It will signify a great deal to me,' said Neverbend, with a look of ferocious honesty; and
so they reached Plymouth.

On getting out of the railway carriage, Alaric at once hired a carriage with a pair of horses;
the luggage was strapped on, and Mr. Neverbend, before his time for expostulation had fairly
come, found himself posting down the road to Tavistock, followed at a respectful distance by
two coaches and an omnibus.

They were soon drinking tea together at the Bedford Hotel, and I beg to assure any travelling
readers that they might have drunk tea in a much worse place. Mr. Neverbend, though he made
a great struggle to protect his dignity, and maintain the superiority of his higher rank, felt
the ground sinking from beneath his feet from hour to hour. He could not at all understand
how it was, but even the servants at the hotel seemed to pay more deference to Tudor than to
him; and before the evening was over he absolutely found himself drinking port wine negus,
because his colleague had ordered it for him.

'And now,' said Neverbend, who was tired with his long journey, 'I think I'll go to bed.'

'Do,' said Alaric, who was not at all tired, 'and I'll go through this infernal mass of papers.
I have hardly looked at them yet. Now that I am in the neighbourhood I shall better understand
the strange names.'

So Alaric went to work, and studied the dry subject that was before him. It will luckily not
be necessary for us to do so also. It will be sufficient for us to know that Wheal Mary Jane
was at that moment the richest of all the rich mines that had then been opened in that district;
that the, or its, or her shares (which is the proper way of speaking of them I am shamefully
ignorant) were at an enormous premium; that these two Commissioners would have to see and talk
to some scores of loud and angry men, deeply interested in their success or failure, and that
that success or failure might probably in part depend on the view which these two Commissioners
might take.

CHAPTER VIII

THE HON. UNDECIMUS SCOTT

The Hon. Undecimus Scott was the eleventh son of the Lord Gaberlunzie. Lord Gaberlunzie was
the representative of a very old and very noble race, more conspicuous, however, at the present
time for its age and nobility than for its wealth. The Hon. Undecimus, therefore, learnt, on
arriving at manhood, that he was heir only to the common lot of mortality, and that he had
to earn his own bread. This, however, could not have surprised him much, as nine of his brethren
had previously found themselves in the same condition.

Lord Gaberlunzie certainly was not one of those wealthy peers who are able to make two or three
elder sons, and after that to establish any others that may come with comfortable younger children's
portions. The family was somewhat accustomed to the res angusta domi; but they were fully alive
to the fact, that a noble brood, such as their own, ought always to be able to achieve comfort
and splendour in the world's broad field, by due use of those privileges which spring from
a noble name. Cauldkail Castle, in Aberdeenshire, was the family residence; but few of the
eleven young Scotts were ever to be found there after arriving at that age at which they had
been able to fly from the paternal hall.

It is a terrible task, that of having to provide for eleven sons. With two or three a man may
hope, with some reasonable chance of seeing his hope fulfilled, that things will go well with
him, and that he may descend to his grave without that worst of wretchedness, that gnawing
grief which comes from bad children. But who can hope that eleven sons will all walk in the
narrow path?

Had Lord Gaberlunzie, however, been himself a patriarch, and ruled the pastoral plains of Palestine,
instead of the bleak mountains which surround Cauldkail Castle, he could not have been more
indifferent as to the number of his sons. They flew away, each as his time came, with the early
confidence of young birds, and as seldom returned to disturb the family nest.

They were a cannie, comely, sensible brood. Their father and mother, if they gave them nothing
else, gave them strong bodies and sharp brains. They were very like each other, though always
with a difference. Red hair, bright as burnished gold; high, but not very high, cheek bones;
and small, sharp, twinkling eyes, were the Gaberlunzie personal characteristics. There were
three in the army, two in the navy, and one at a foreign embassy; one was at the diggings,
another was chairman of a railway company, and our own more particular friend, Undecimus, was
picking up crumbs about the world in a manner that satisfied the paternal mind that he was
quite able to fly alone.

There is a privilege common to the sons of all noble lords, the full value of which the young
Scotts learnt very early in life-- that of making any woman with a tocher an honourable lady.
'Ye maun be a puir chiel, gin ye'll be worth less than ten thoosand pound in the market o'
marriage; and ten thoosand pound is a gawcey grand heritage!' Such had been the fatherly precept
which Lord Gaberlunzie had striven to instil into each of his noble sons; and it had not been
thrown away upon them. One after the other they had gone forth into the market-place alluded
to, and had sold themselves with great ease and admirable discretion. There had been but one
Moses in the lot: the Hon. Gordon Hamilton Scott had certainly brought home a bundle of shagreen
spectacle cases in the guise of a widow with an exceedingly doubtful jointure; doubtful indeed
at first, but very soon found to admit of no doubt whatever. He was the one who, with true
Scotch enterprise, was prosecuting his fortunes at the Bendigo diggings, while his wife consoled
herself at home with her title.

Undecimus, with filial piety, had taken his father exactly at his word, and swapped himself
for L10,000. He had, however, found himself imbued with much too high an ambition to rest content
with the income arising from his matrimonial speculation. He had first contrived to turn his
real L10,000 into a fabulous L50,000, and had got himself returned to Parliament for the Tillietudlem
district burghs on the credit of his great wealth; he then set himself studiously to work to
make a second market by placing his vote at the disposal of the Government.

Nor had he failed of success in his attempt, though he had hitherto been able to acquire no
high or permanent post. He had soon been appointed private secretary to the First Lord of the
Stannaries, and he found that his duty in this capacity required him to assist the Government
whip in making and keeping houses. This occupation was congenial to his spirit, and he worked
hard and well at it; but the greatest of men are open to the tainting breath of suspicion,
and the Honourable Undecimus Scott, or Undy Scott, as he was generally now called, did not
escape. Ill- natured persons whispered that he was not on all occasions true to his party;
and once when his master, the whip-in-chief, overborne with too much work, had been tempted
to put himself to bed comfortably in his own house, instead of on his usual uneasy couch behind
the Speaker's chair, Undy had greatly failed. The leader of a party whose struggles for the
religion of his country had hitherto met but small success, saw at a glance the opportunity
which fortune had placed in his way; he spied with eagle eye the nakedness of that land of
promise which is compressed in the district round the Treasury benches; the barren field before
him was all his own, and he put and carried his motion for closing the parks on Sundays.

He became a hero; but Undy was all but undone. The highest hope of the Sabbatarian had been
to address an almost empty house for an hour and a half on this his favourite subject. But
the chance was too good to be lost; he sacrificed his oratorical longings on the altar of party
purpose, and limited his speech to a mere statement of his motion. Off flew on the wings of
Hansom a youthful member, more trusty than the trusted Undy, to the abode of the now couchant
Treasury Argus. Morpheus had claimed him all for his own. He was lying in true enjoyment, with
his tired limbs stretched between the unaccustomed sheets, and snoring with free and sonorous
nose, restrained by the contiguity of no Speaker's elbow. But even in his deepest slumber the
quick wheels of the bounding cab struck upon the tympanum of his anxious ear. He roused himself
as does a noble watch-dog when the 'suspicious tread of theft' approaches. The hurry of the
jaded horse, the sudden stop, the maddened furious knock, all told a tale which his well-trained
ear only knew too well. He sat up for a moment, listening in his bed, stretched himself with
one involuntary yawn, and then stood upright on the floor. It should not at any rate be boasted
by any one that he had been found in bed.

With elastic step, three stairs at a time, up rushed that young and eager member. It was well
for the nerves of Mrs. Whip Vigil that the calls of society still held her bound in some distant
brilliant throng; for no consideration would have stopped the patriotic energy of that sucking
statesman. Mr. Vigil had already performed the most important act of a speedy toilet, when
his door was opened, and as his young friend appeared was already buttoning his first brace.

'Pumpkin is up!' said the eager juvenile,' and we have only five men in the house.'

'And where the devil is Undy Scott?' said the Right Hon. Mr. Vigil.

'The devil only knows,' said the other.

'I deserve it for trusting him,' said the conscience-stricken but worthy public servant. By
this time he had on his neckcloth and boots; in his eager haste to serve his country he had
forgotten his stockings. 'I deserve it for trusting him--and how many men have they?'

'Forty-one when I left.'

'Then they'll divide, of course?'

'Of course they will,' said the promising young dove of the Treasury.

And now Mr. Whip Vigil had buttoned on that well-made frock with which the Parliamentary world
is so conversant, and as he descended the stairs, arranged with pocket-comb his now grizzling
locks. His well-brushed hat stood ready to his touch below, and when he entered the cab he
was apparently as well dressed a gentleman as when about three hours after noon he may be seen
with slow and easy step entering the halls of the Treasury chambers.

But ah! alas, he was all too late. He came but to see the ruin which Undy's defection had brought
about. He might have taken his rest, and had a quiet mind till the next morning's Times revealed
to him the fact of Mr. Pumpkin's grand success. When he arrived, the numbers were being taken,
and he, even he, Mr. Whip Vigil, he the great arch-numberer, was excluded from the number of
the counted. When the doors were again open the Commons of England had decided by a majority
of forty-one to seven that the parks of London should, one and all, be closed on Sundays; and
Mr. Pumpkin had achieved among his own set a week's immortality.

'We mustn't have this again, Vigil,' said a very great man the next morning, with a good-humoured
smile on his face, however, as he uttered the reprimand. 'It will take us a whole night, and
God knows how much talking, to undo what those fools did yesterday.'

Mr. Vigil resolved to leave nothing again to the unassisted industry or honesty of Undy Scott,
and consequently that gentleman's claims on his party did not stand so highly as they might
have done but for this accident. Parliament was soon afterwards dissolved, and either through
the lukewarm support of his Government friends, or else in consequence of his great fortune
having been found to be ambiguous, the independent electors of the Tillietudlem burghs took
it into their heads to unseat Mr. Scott. Unseated for Tillietudlem, he had no means of putting
himself forward elsewhere, and he had to repent, in the sackcloth and ashes of private life,
the fault which had cost him the friendship of Mr. Vigil.

His life, however, was not strictly private. He had used the Honourable before his name, and
the M.P. which for a time had followed after it, to acquire for himself a seat as director
at a bank board. He was a Vice-President of the Caledonian, English, Irish, and General European
and American Fire and Life Assurance Society; such, at least, had been the name of the joint-stock
company in question when he joined it; but he had obtained much credit by adding the word 'Oriental,'
and inserting it after the allusion to Europe; he had tried hard to include the fourth quarter
of the globe; but, as he explained to some of his friends, it would have made the name too
cumbrous for the advertisements. He was a director also of one or two minor railways, dabbled
in mining shares, and, altogether, did a good deal of business in the private stock-jobbing line.

In spite of his former delinquencies, his political friends did not altogether throw him over.
In the first place, the time might come when he would be again useful, and then he had managed
to acquire that air and tact which make one official man agreeable to another. He was always
good-humoured; when in earnest, there was a dash of drollery about him; in his most comic moods
he ever had some serious purpose in view; he thoroughly understood the esoteric and exoteric
bearings of modern politics, and knew well that though he should be a model of purity before
the public, it did not behove him to be very strait-laced with his own party. He took everything
in good part, was not over-talkative, over- pushing, or presumptuous; he felt no strong bias
of his own; had at his fingers' ends the cant phraseology of ministerial subordinates, and
knew how to make himself useful. He knew also-- a knowledge much more difficult to acquire--how
to live among men so as never to make himself disagreeable.

But then he could not be trusted! True. But how many men in his walk of life can be trusted?
And those who can--at how terribly high a price do they rate their own fidelity! How often
must a minister be forced to confess to himself that he cannot afford to employ good faith!
Undy Scott, therefore, from time to time, received some ministerial bone, some Civil Service
scrap of victuals thrown to him from the Government table, which, if it did not suffice to
maintain him in all the comforts of a Treasury career, still preserved for him a connexion
with the Elysium of public life; gave him, as it were, a link by which he could hang on round
the outer corners of the State's temple, and there watch with advantage till the doors of Paradise
should be re-opened to him. He was no Lucifer, who, having wilfully rebelled against the high
majesty of Heaven, was doomed to suffer for ever in unavailing, but still proud misery, the
penalties of his asserted independence; but a poor Peri, who had made a lapse and thus forfeited,
for a while, celestial joys, and was now seeking for some welcome offering, striving to perform
some useful service, by which he might regain his lost glory.

The last of the good things thus tendered to him was not yet all consumed. When Mr. Hardlines,
now Sir Gregory, was summoned to assist at, or rather preside over, the deliberations of the
committee which was to organize a system of examination for the Civil Service, the Hon. U.
Scott had been appointed secretary to that committee. This, to be sure, afforded but a fleeting
moment of halcyon bliss; but a man like Mr. Scott knew how to prolong such a moment to its
uttermost stretch. The committee had ceased to sit, and the fruits of their labour were already
apparent in the establishment of a new public office, presided over by Sir Gregory; but still
the clever Undy continued to draw his salary.

Undy was one of those men who, though married and the fathers of families, are always seen
and known 'en garcon'. No one had a larger circle of acquaintance than Undy Scott; no one,
apparently, a smaller circle than Mrs. Undy Scott. So small, indeed, was it, that its locale
was utterly unknown in the fashionable world. At the time of which we are now speaking Undy
was the happy possessor of a bedroom in Waterloo Place, and rejoiced in all the comforts of
a first-rate club. But the sacred spot, in which at few and happy intervals he received the
caresses of the wife of his bosom and the children of his loins, is unknown to the author.

In age, Mr. Scott, at the time of the Tavistock mining inquiry, was about thirty-five. Having
sat in Parliament for five years, he had now been out for four, and was anxiously looking for
the day when the universal scramble of a general election might give him another chance. In
person he was, as we have said, stalwart and comely, hirsute with copious red locks, not only
over his head, but under his chin and round his mouth. He was well made, six feet high, neither
fat nor thin, and he looked like a gentleman. He was careful in his dress, but not so as to
betray the care that he took; he was imperturbable in temper, though restless in spirit; and
the one strong passion of his life was the desire of a good income at the cost of the public.

He had an easy way of getting intimate with young men when it suited him, and as easy a way
of dropping them afterwards when that suited him. He had no idea of wasting his time or opportunities
in friendships. Not that he was indifferent as to his companions, or did not appreciate the
pleasure of living with pleasant men; but that life was too short, and with him the race too
much up hill, to allow of his indulging in such luxuries. He looked on friendship as one of
those costly delights with which none but the rich should presume to gratify themselves. He
could not afford to associate with his fellow-men on any other terms than those of making capital
of them. It was not for him to walk and talk and eat and drink with a man because he liked
him. How could the eleventh son of a needy Scotch peer, who had to maintain his rank and position
by the force of his own wit, how could such a one live, if he did not turn to some profit even
the convivialities of existence?

Acting in accordance with his fixed and conscientious rule in this respect, Undy Scott had
struck up an acquaintance with Alaric Tudor. He saw that Alaric was no ordinary clerk, that
Sir Gregory was likely to have the Civil Service under his thumb, and that Alaric was a great
favourite with the great man. It would but little have availed Undy to have striven to be intimate
with Sir Gregory himself. The Knight Commander of the Bath would have been deaf to his blandishments;
but it seemed probable that the ears of Alaric might be tickled.

And thus Alaric and Undy Scott had become fast friends; that is, as fast as such friends generally
are. Alaric was no more blind to his own interest than was his new ally. But there was this
difference between them; Undy lived altogether in the utilitarian world which he had formed
around himself, whereas Alaric lived in two worlds. When with Undy his pursuits and motives
were much such as those of Undy himself; but at Surbiton Cottage, and with Harry Norman, he
was still susceptible of a higher feeling. He had been very cool to poor Linda on his last
visit to Hampton; but it was not that his heart was too hard for love. He had begun to discern
that Gertrude would never attach herself to Norman; and if Gertrude were free, why should she
not be his?

Poor Linda!

Scott had early heard--and of what official event did he not obtain early intelligence?--that
Neverbend was to go down to Tavistock about the Mary Jane tin mine, and that a smart colleague
was required for him. He would fain, for reasons of his own, have been that smart colleague
himself; but that he knew was impossible. He and Neverbend were the Alpha and Omega of official
virtues and vices. But he took an opportunity of mentioning before Sir Gregory, in a passing
unpremeditated way, how excellently adapted Tudor was for the work. It so turned out that his
effort was successful, and that Tudor was sent.

The whole of their first day at Tavistock was passed by Neverbend and Alaric in hearing interminable
statements from the various mining combatants, and when at seven o'clock Alaric shut up for
the evening he was heartily sick of the job. The next morning before breakfast he sauntered
out to air himself in front of the hotel, and who should come whistling up the street, with
a cigar in his mouth, but his new friend Undy Scott.

CHAPTER IX

MR. MANYLODES

Alaric Tudor was very much surprised. Had he seen Sir Gregory himself, or Captain Cuttwater,
walking up the street of Tavistock, he could not have been more startled. It first occurred
to him that Scott must have been sent down as a third Commissioner to assist at the investigation;
and he would have been right glad to have known that this was the case, for he found that the
management of Mr. Neverbend was no pastime. But he soon learnt that such relief was not at
hand for him.

'Well, Tudor, my boy,' said he, 'and how do you like the clotted cream and the thick ankles
of the stout Devonshire lasses?'

'I have neither tasted the one, nor seen the other,' said Alaric. 'As yet I have encountered
nothing but the not very civil tongues, and not very clear brains of Cornish roughs.'

'A Boeotian crew! but, nevertheless, they know on which side their bread is buttered--and in
general it goes hard with them but they butter it on both sides. And how does the faithful
Neverbend conduct himself? Talk of Boeotians, if any man ever was born in a foggy air, it must
have been my friend Fidus.'

Alaric merely shrugged his shoulders, and laughed slightly. 'But what on earth brings you down
to Tavistock?' said he.

'Oh! I am a denizen of the place, naturalized, and all but settled; have vast interests here,
and a future constituency. Let the Russells look well to themselves. The time is quickly coming
when you will address me in the House with bitter sarcasm as the honourable but inconsistent
member for Tavistock; egad, who knows but you may have to say Right Honourable?'

'Oh! I did not know the wind blew in that quarter,' said Alaric, not ill-pleased at the suggestion
that he also, on some future day, might have a seat among the faithful Commons.

'The wind blows from all quarters with me,' said Undy; 'but in the meantime I am looking out
for shares.'

'Will you come in and breakfast?' asked the other.

'What, with friend Fidus? no, thank'ee; I am not, by many degrees, honest enough to suit his
book. He would be down on some little public peccadillo of mine before I had swallowed my first
egg. Besides, I would not for worlds break the pleasure of your tete-a-tete.'

'Will you come down after dinner?'

'No; neither after dinner, nor before breakfast; not all the coffee, nor all the claret of
the Bedford shall tempt me. Remember, my friend, you are paid for it; I am not.'

'Well, then, good morning,' said Alaric. 'I must go in and face my fate, like a Briton.'

Undy went on for a few steps, and then returned, as though a sudden thought had struck him.
'But, Tudor, I have bowels of compassion within me, though no pluck. I am willing to rescue
you from your misery, though I will not partake it. Come up to me this evening, and I will
give you a glass of brandy-punch. Your true miners never drink less generous tipple.'

'How on earth am I to shake off this incubus of the Woods and Works?'

'Shake him off? Why, make him drunk and put him to bed; or tell him at once that the natural
iniquity of your disposition makes it necessary that you should spend a few hours of the day
in the company of a sinner like myself. Tell him that his virtue is too heavy for the digestive
organs of your unpractised stomach. Tell him what you will, but come. I myself am getting sick
of those mining Vandals, though I am so used to dealing with them.'

Alaric promised that he would come, and then went in to breakfast. Undy also returned to his
breakfast, well pleased with this first success in the little scheme which at present occupied
his mind. The innocent young Commissioner little dreamt that the Honourable Mr. Scott had come
all the way to Tavistock on purpose to ask him to drink brandy-punch at the Blue Dragon!

Another day went wearily and slowly on with Alaric and Mr. Neverbend. Tedious, never-ending
statements had to be taken down in writing; the same things were repeated over and over again,
and were as often contradicted; men who might have said in five words all that they had to
say, would not be constrained to say it in less than five thousand, and each one seemed to
think, or pretended to seem to think, that all the outer world and the Government were leagued
together to defraud the interest to which he himself was specially attached. But this was not
the worst of it. There were points which were as clear as daylight; but Tudor could not declare
them to be so, as by doing so he was sure to elicit a different opinion from Mr. Neverbend.

'I am not quite so clear on that point, Mr. Tudor,' he would say.

Alaric, till experience made him wise, would attempt to argue it.

'That is all very well, but I am not quite so sure of it. We will reserve the point, if you
please,' and so affairs went on darkly, no ray of light being permitted to shine in on the
matter in dispute.

It was settled, however, before dinner, that they should both go down the Wheal Mary Jane on
the following day. Neverbend had done what he could to keep this crowning honour of the inquiry
altogether in his own hands, but he had found that in this respect Tudor was much too much for him.

Immediately after dinner Alaric announced that he was going to spend the evening with a friend.

'A friend!' said Neverbend, somewhat startled; 'I did not know that you had any friends in
Tavistock.'

'Not a great many; but it so happened that I did meet a man I know, this morning, and promised
to go to him in the evening. I hope you'll excuse my leaving you?'

'Oh! I don't mind for myself,' said Neverbend, 'though, when men are together, it's as well
for them to keep together. But, Mr. Tudor----'

'Well?' said Alaric, who felt growing within him a determination to put down at once anything
like interference with his private hours.

'Perhaps I ought not to mention it,' said Neverbend, 'but I do hope you'll not get among mining
people. Only think what our position here is.'

'What on earth do you mean?' said Alaric. 'Do you think I shall be bribed over by either side
because I choose to drink a glass of wine with a friend at another hotel?'

'Bribed! No, I don't think you'll be bribed; but I think we should both keep ourselves absolutely
free from all chance of being talked to on the subject, except before each other and before
witnesses. I would not drink brandy-and-water at the Blue Dragon, before this report be written,
even if my brother were there.'

'Well, Mr. Neverbend, I am not so much afraid of myself. But wherever there are two men, there
will be two opinions. So good night, if it so chance that you are in bed before my return.'

So Tudor went out, and Neverbend prepared himself to sit up for him. He would sooner have remained
up all night than have gone to bed before his colleague came back.

Three days Alaric Tudor had now passed with Mr. Neverbend, and not only three days but three
evenings also! A man may endure to be bored in the course of business through the day, but
it becomes dreadful when the infliction is extended to post-prandial hours. It does not often
occur that one is doomed to bear the same bore both by day and night; any change gives some
ease; but poor Alaric for three days had had no change. He felt like a liberated convict as
he stepped freely forth into the sweet evening air, and made his way through the town to the
opposition inn.

Here he found Undy on the door-steps with a cigar in his mouth. 'Here I am, waiting for you,'
said he. 'You are fagged to death, I know, and we'll get a mouthful of fresh air before we
go upstairs,'--and so saying he put his arm through Alaric's, and they strolled off through
the suburbs of the town.

'You don't smoke,' said Undy, with his cigar-case in his hand. 'Well--I believe you are right--cigars
cost a great deal of money, and can't well do a man any real good. God Almighty could never
have intended us to make chimneys of our mouths and noses. Does Fidus ever indulge in a weed?'

'He never indulges in anything,' said Alaric.

'Except honesty,' said the other, 'and in that he is a beastly glutton. He gorges himself with
it till all his faculties are overpowered and his mind becomes torpid. It's twice worse than
drinking. I wonder whether he'll do a bit of speculation before he goes back to town.'

'Who, Neverbend?--he never speculates!'

'Why not? Ah, my fine fellow, you don't know the world yet. Those sort of men, dull drones
like Neverbend, are just the fellows who go the deepest. I'll be bound he will not return without
a few Mary Janes in his pocket-book. He'll be a fool if he does, I know.'

'Why, that's the very mine we are down here about.'

'And that's the very reason why he'll purchase Mary Janes. He has an opportunity of knowing
their value. Oh, let Neverbend alone. He is not so young as you are, my dear fellow.'

'Young or old, I think you mistake his character.'

'Why, Tudor, what would you think now if he not only bought for himself, but was commissioned
to buy by the very men who sent him down here?'

'It would be hard to make me believe it.'

'Ah! faith is a beautiful thing; what a pity that it never survives the thirtieth year;--except
with women and fools.'

'And have you no faith, Scott?'

'Yes--much in myself--some little in Lord Palmerston, that is, in his luck; and a good deal
in a bank-note. But I have none at all in Fidus Neverbend. What! have faith in a man merely
because he tells me to have it! His method of obtaining it is far too easy.'

'I trust neither his wit nor his judgement; but I don't believe him to be a thief.'

'Thief! I said nothing of thieves. He may, for aught I know, be just as good as the rest of
the world; all I say is, that I believe him to be no better. But come, we must go back to the
inn; there is an ally of mine coming to me; a perfect specimen of a sharp Cornish mining stockjobber--as
vulgar a fellow as you ever met, and as shrewd. He won't stay very long, so you need not be
afraid of him.'

Alaric began to feel uneasy, and to think that there might by possibility be something in what
Neverbend had said to him. He did not like the idea of meeting a Cornish stock-jobber in a
familiar way over his brandy-punch, while engaged, as he now was, on the part of Government;
he felt that there might be impropriety in it, and he would have been glad to get off if he
could. But he felt ashamed to break his engagement, and thus followed Undy into the hotel.

'Has Mr. Manylodes been here?' said Scott, as he walked upstairs.

'He's in the bar now, sir,' said the waiter.

'Beg him to come up, then. In the bar! why, that man must have a bar within himself--the alcohol
he consumes every day would be a tidy sale for a small public-house.'

Up they went, and Mr. Manylodes was not long in following them. He was a small man, more like
an American in appearance than an Englishman. He had on a common black hat, a black coat, black
waistcoat, and black trousers, thick boots, a coloured shirt, and very dirty hands. Though
every article he wore was good, and most of them such as gentlemen wear, no man alive could
have mistaken him for a gentleman. No man, conversant with the species to which he belonged,
could have taken him for anything but what he was. As he entered the room, a faint, sickly,
second-hand smell of alcohol pervaded the atmosphere.

'Well, Manylodes,' said Scott, 'I'm glad to see you again. This is my friend, Mr. Tudor.'

'Your servant, sir,' said Manylodes, just touching his hat, without moving it from his head.
'And how are you, Mr. Scott? I am glad to see you again in these parts, sir.'

'And how's trade? Come, Tudor, what will you drink? Manylodes, I know, takes brandy; their
sherry is vile, and their claret worse; maybe they may have a fairish glass of port. And how
is trade, Manylodes?'

'We're all as brisk as bees at present. I never knew things sharper. If you've brought a little
money with you, now's your time. But I tell you this, you'll find it sharp work for the eyesight.'

'Quick's the word, I suppose.'

'Lord love you! Quick! Why, a fellow must shave himself before he goes to bed if he wants to
be up in time these days.'

'I suppose so.'

'Lord love you! why there was old Sam Weazle; never caught napping yet--why at Truro, last
Monday, he bought up to 450 New Friendships, and before he was a-bed they weren't worth, not
this bottle of brandy. Well, old Sam was just bit by those Cambourne lads.'

'And how did that happen?'

'Why, the New Friendships certainly was very good while they lasted; just for three months
they was the thing certainly. Why, it came up, sir, as if there weren't no end of it, and just
as clean as that half-crown--but I know'd there was an end coming.'

'Water, I suppose,' said Undy, sipping his toddy.

'Them clean takes, Mr. Scott, they never lasts. There was water, but that weren't the worst.
Old Weazle knew of that; he calculated he'd back the metal agin the water, and so he bought
all up he could lay his finger on. But the stuff was run out. Them Cambourne boys--what did
they do? Why, they let the water in on purpose. By Monday night old Weazle knew it all, and
then you may say it was as good as a play.'

'And how did you do in the matter?'

'Oh, I sold. I did very well--bought at L7 2s. 3d. and sold at L6 19s. 10 1/2d., and got my
seven per cent, for the four months. But, Lord love you, them clean takes never lasts. I worn't
going to hang on. Here's your health, Mr. Scott. Yours, Mr.---, I didn't just catch the gen'leman's
name;' and without waiting for further information on the point, he finished his brandy-and- water.

'So it's all up with the New Friendships, is it?' said Undy.

'Up and down, Mr. Scott; every dog has his day; these Mary Janes will be going the same way
some of them days. We're all mortal;' and with this moral comparison between the uncertainty
of human life and the vicissitudes of the shares in which he trafficked, Mr. Manylodes proceeded
to put some more sugar and brandy into his tumbler.

'True, true--we are all mortal--Manylodes and Mary Janes; old friendships and New Friendships:
while they last we must make the most we can of them; buy them cheap and sell them dear; and
above all things get a good percentage,'

'That's the game, Mr. Scott; and I will say no man understands it better than yourself--keep
the ball a-running--that's your maxim. Are you going it deep in Mary Jane, Mr. Scott?'

'Who? I! O no--she's a cut above me now, I fear. The shares are worth any money now, I suppose.'

'Worth any money! I think they are, Mr. Scott, but I believe----' and then bringing his chair
close up to that of his aristocratic friend, resting his hands, one on Mr. Scott's knee, and
the other on his elbow, and breathing brandy into his ear, he whispered to him words of great
significance.

'I'll leave you, Scott,' said Alaric, who did not enjoy the society of Mr. Manylodes, and to
whom the nature of the conversation was, in his present position, extremely irksome; 'I must
be back at the Bedford early.'

'Early--why early? surely our honest friend can get himself to bed without your interference.
Come, you don't like the brandy toddy, nor I either. We'll see what sort of a hand they are
at making a bowl of bishop.'

'Not for me, Scott.'

'Yes, for you, man; surely you are not tied to that fellow's apron-strings,' he said, removing
himself from the close contiguity of Mr. Manylodes, and speaking under his voice; 'take my
advice; if you once let that man think you fear him, you'll never get the better of him.'

Alaric allowed himself to be persuaded and stayed.

'I have just ten words of business to say to this fellow,' continued Scott, 'and then we will
be alone.'

It was a lovely autumn evening, early in September, and Alaric sat himself at an open window,
looking out from the back of the hotel on to the Brentor, with its singular parish church,
built on its highest apex, while Undy held deep council with his friend of the mines. But from
time to time, some word of moment found its way to Alaric's ears, and made him also unconsciously
fix his mind on the irritamenta malorum, which are dug from the bowels of the earth in those
western regions.

'Minting money, sir; it's just minting money. There's been no chance like it in my days. L4
12s. 6d. paid up; and they'll be at L25 in Truro before sun sets on Saturday, Lord love you,
Mr. Scott, now's your time. If, as I hear, they--' and then there was a very low whisper, and
Alaric, who could not keep his eye altogether from Mr. Manylodes' countenance, saw plainly
that that worthy gentleman was talking of himself; and in spite of his better instincts, a
desire came over him to know more of what they were discussing, and he could not keep from
thinking that shares bought at L4 12s. 6d., and realizing L25, must be very nice property.

'Well, I'll manage it,' said Scott, still in a sort of whisper, but audibly enough for Alaric
to hear. 'Forty, you say? I'll take them at L5 1s. 1d.--very well;' and he took out his pocket-book
and made a memorandum. 'Come, Tudor, here's the bishop. We have done our business, so now we'll
enjoy ourselves. What, Manylodes, are you off?'

'Lord love you, Mr. Scott, I've a deal to do before I get to my downy; and I don't like those
doctored tipples. Good night, Mr. Scott. I wishes you good night, sir;' and making another
slight reference to his hat, which had not been removed from his head during the whole interview,
Mr. Manylodes took himself off.

'There, now, is a specimen of a species of the genus homo, class Englishman, which is, I believe,
known nowhere but in Cornwall.'

'Cornwall and Devonshire, I suppose,' said Alaric.

'No; he is out of his true element here. If you want to see him in all the glory of his native
county you should go west of Truro. From Truro to Hayle is the land of the Manylodes. And a
singular species it is. But, Tudor, you'll be surprised, I suppose, if I tell you that I have
made a purchase for you.'

'A purchase for me!'

'Yes; I could not very well consult you before that fellow, and yet as the chance came in my
way, I did not like to lose it. Come, the bishop ain't so bad, is it, though it is doctored
tipple?' and he refilled Alaric's glass.

'But what have you purchased for me, Scott?'

'Forty shares in the Mary Jane.'

'Then you may undo the bargain again, for I don't want them, and shall not take them.'

'You need not be a bit uneasy, my dear fellow. I've bought them at a little over L5, and they'll
be saleable to-morrow at double the money--or at any rate to-morrow week. But what's your objection
to them?'

'In the first place, I've got no money to buy shares.'

'That's just the reason why you should buy them; having no money, you can't but want some;
and here's your way to make it. You can have no difficulty in raising L200.'

'And in the next place, I should not think of buying mining shares, and more especially these,
while I am engaged as I now am.'

'Fal de ral, de ral, de ral! That's all very fine, Mr. Commissioner; only you mistake your
man; you think you are talking to Mr. Neverbend.'

'Well, Scott, I shan't have them.'

'Just as you please, my dear fellow; there's no compulsion. Only mark this; the ball is at
your foot now, but it won't remain there. 'There is a tide in the affairs of men'--you know
the rest; and you know also that 'tide and time wait for no man.' If you are contented with
your two or three hundred a year in the Weights and Measures, God forbid that I should tempt
you to higher thoughts--only in that case I have mistaken my man.'

'I must be contented with it, if I can get nothing better,' said Tudor, weakly.

'Exactly; you must be contented--or rather you must put up with it--if you can get nothing
better. That's the meaning of contentment all the world over. You argue in a circle. You must
be a mere clerk if you cannot do better than other mere clerks. But the fact of your having
such an offer as that I now make you, is proof that you can do better than others; proves,
in fact, that you need not be a mere clerk, unless you choose to remain so.'

'Buying these shares might lose me all that I have got, and could not do more than put a hundred
pounds or so in my pocket.'

'Gammon--'

'Could I go back and tell Sir Gregory openly that I had bought them?'

'Why, Tudor, you are the youngest fish I ever met, sent out to swim alone in this wicked world
of ours. Who the deuce talks openly of his speculations? Will Sir Gregory tell you what shares
he buys? Is not every member of the House, every man in the Government, every barrister, parson,
and doctor, that can collect a hundred pounds, are not all of them at the work? And do they
talk openly of the matter? Does the bishop put it into his charge, or the parson into his sermon?'

'But they would not be ashamed to tell their friends.'

'Would not they? Oh! the Rev. Mr. Pickabit, of St. Judas Without, would not be ashamed to tell
his bishop! But the long and the short of the thing is this; most men circumstanced as you
are have no chance of doing anything good till they are forty or fifty, and then their energies
are worn out. You have had tact enough to push yourself up early, and yet it seems you have
not pluck enough to take the goods the gods provide you.'

'The gods!--you mean the devils rather,' said Alaric, who sat listening and drinking, almost
unconsciously, his doctored tipple.

'Call them what you will for me. Fortune has generally been esteemed a goddess, but misfortune
a very devil. But, Tudor, you don't know the world. Here is a chance in your way. Of course
that keg of brandy who went out just now understands very well who you are. He wants to be
civil to me, and he thinks it wise to be civil to you also. He has a hat full of these shares,
and he tells me that, knowing my weakness, and presuming that you have the same, he bought
a few extra this morning, thinking we might like them. Now, I have no hesitation in saying
there is not a single man whom the Government could send down here, from Sir Gregory downwards,
who could refuse the chance.'

'I am quite sure that Neverbend----'

'Oh! for Heaven's sake don't choke me with Neverbend; the fools are fools, and will be so;
they are used for their folly. I speak of men with brains. How do you think that such men as
Hardlines, Vigil, and Mr. Estimate have got up in the world? Would they be where they are now,
had they been contented with their salaries?'

'They had private fortunes.'

'Very private they must have been--I never heard of them. No; what fortunes they have they
made. Two of them are in Parliament, and the other has a Government situation of L2,000 a year,
with little or nothing to do. But they began life early, and never lost a chance.'

'It is quite clear that that blackguard who was here just now thinks that he can influence
my opinion by inducing me to have an interest in the matter.'

'He had no such idea--nor have I. Do you think I would persuade you to such villany? Do you
think I do not know you too well? Of course the possession of these shares can have no possible
effect on your report, and is not expected to have any. But when men like you and me become
of any note in the world, others, such as Manylodes, like to know that we are embarked in the
same speculation with themselves. Why are members of Parliament asked to be directors, and
vice-governors, and presidents, and guardians, of all the joint-stock societies that are now
set agoing? Not because of their capital, for they generally have none; not for their votes,
because one vote can be but of little use in any emergency. It is because the names of men
of note are worth money. Men of note understand this, and enjoy the fat of the land accordingly.
I want to see you among the number.'

'Twas thus the devil pleaded for the soul of Alaric Tudor; and, alas! he did not plead in vain.
Let him but have a fair hearing, and he seldom does. 'Tis in this way that the truth of that
awful mystery, the fall of man, comes home to us; that we cannot hear the devil plead, and
resist the charm of his eloquence. To listen is to be lost. 'Lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil!' Let that petition come forth from a man's heart, a true and earnest
prayer, and he will be so led that he shall not hear the charmer, let him charm ever so wisely.

'Twas but a thin veil that the Hon. Undecimus Scott threw over the bait with which he fished
for the honesty of Alaric Tudor, and yet it sufficed. One would say that a young man, fortified
with such aspirations as those which glowed in Alaric's breast, should have stood a longer
siege; should have been able to look with clearer eyesight on the landmarks which divide honour
from dishonour, integrity from fraud, and truth from falsehood. But he had never prayed to
be delivered from evil. His desire had rather been that he might be led into temptation.

He had never so prayed--yet had he daily said his prayers at fitting intervals. On every returning
Sunday had he gone through, with all the fitting forms, the ordinary worship of a Christian.
Nor had he done this as a hypocrite. With due attention and a full belief he had weekly knelt
at God's temple, and given, if not his mind, at least his heart, to the service of his church.
But the inner truth of the prayer which he repeated so often had not come home to him. Alas!
how many of us from week to week call ourselves worms and dust and miserable sinners, describe
ourselves as chaff for the winds, grass for the burning, stubble for the plough, as dirt and
filth fit only to be trodden under foot, and yet in all our doings before the world cannot
bring home to ourselves the conviction that we require other guidance than our own!

Alaric Tudor had sighed for permission to go forth among worldlings and there fight the world's
battle. Power, station, rank, wealth, all the good things which men earn by tact, diligence,
and fortune combined, and which were so far from him at his outset in life, became daily more
dear to his heart. And now his honourable friend twitted him with being a mere clerk! No, he
was not, never had been, never would be such. Had he not already, in five or six short years,
distanced his competitors, and made himself the favourite and friend of men infinitely above
him in station? Was he not now here in Tavistock on a mission which proved that he was no mere
clerk? Was not the fact of his drinking bishop in the familiar society of a lord's son, and
an ex-M.P., a proof of it?

It would be calumny on him to say that he had allowed Scott to make him tipsy on this occasion.
He was far from being tipsy; but yet the mixture which he had been drinking had told upon his
brain.

'But, Undy,' said he--he had never before called his honourable friend by his Christian name--'but,
Undy, if I take these shares, where am I to get the money to pay for them?

'The chances are you may part with them before you leave Tavistock. If so, you will not have
to pay for them. You will only have to pocket the difference.'

'Or pay the loss.'

'Or pay the loss. But there's no chance of that. I'll guarantee you against that.'

'But I shan't like to sell them. I shan't choose to be trafficking in shares. Buying a few
as an investment may, perhaps, be a different thing.'

'Oh, Alaric, Alaric, to what a pass had your conscience come, when it could be so silenced!'

'Well, I suppose you can raise a couple of hundred--L205 will cover the whole thing, commission
and all; but, mind, I don't advise you to keep them long--I shall take two months' dividends,
and then sell.'

'Two hundred and five pounds,' said Tudor, to whom the sum seemed anything but trifling; 'and
when must it be paid?'

'Well, I can give Manylodes a cheque for the whole, dated this day week. You'll be back in
town before that. We must allow him L5 for the accommodation. I suppose you can pay the money
in at my banker's by that day?'

Alaric had some portion of the amount himself, and he knew that Norman had money by him; he
felt also a half-drunken conviction that if Norman failed him, Captain Cuttwater would not
let him want such a sum; and so he said that he could, and the bargain was completed.

As he went downstairs whistling with an affected ease, and a gaiety which, he by no means felt,
Undy Scott leant back in his chair, and began to speculate whether his new purchase was worth
the purchase-money. 'He's a sharp fellow; certainly, in some things, and may do well yet; but
he's uncommonly green. That, however, will wear off. I should not be surprised if he told Neverbend
the whole transaction before this time to-morrow.' And then Mr. Scott finished his cigar and
went to bed.

When Alaric entered the sitting-room at the Bedford, he found Neverbend still seated at a table
covered with official books and huge bundles of official papers. An enormous report was open
before him, from which he was culling the latent sweets, and extracting them with a pencil.
He glowered at Alaric with a severe suspicious eye, which seemed to accuse him at once of the
deed which he had done.

'You are very late,' said Neverbend, 'but I have not been sorry to be alone. I believe I have
been able to embody in a rough draft the various points which we have hitherto discussed. I
have just been five hours and a half at it;' and Fidus looked at his watch; 'five hours and
forty minutes. To-morrow, perhaps, that is, if you are not going to your friend again, you'll
not object to make a fair copy----'

'Copy!' shouted Alaric, in whose brain the open air had not diminished the effect of the bishop,
and who remembered, with all the energy of pot valour, that he was not a mere clerk; 'copy--
bother; I'm going to bed, old fellow; and I advise you to do the same.'

And then, taking up a candlestick and stumbling somewhat awkwardly against a chair, Tudor went
off to his room, waiting no further reply from his colleague.

Mr. Neverbend slowly put up his papers and followed him. 'He is decidedly the worse for drink--decidedly
so,' said he to himself, as he pulled off his clothes. 'What a disgrace to the Woods and Works--what
a disgrace!'

And he resolved in his mind that he would be very early at the pit's mouth. He would not be
kept from his duty while a dissipated colleague collected his senses by the aid of soda- water.

CHAPTER X

WHEAL MARY JANE

Mr. Manylodes was, at any rate, right in this, that that beverage, which men call bishop, is
a doctored tipple; and Alaric Tudor, when he woke in the morning, owned the truth. It had been
arranged that certain denizens of the mine should meet the two Commissioners at the pit-mouth
at eight o'clock, and it had been settled at dinner-time that breakfast should be on the table
at seven, sharp. Half an hour's quick driving would take them to the spot.

At seven Mr. Fidus Neverbend, who had never yet been known to be untrue to an appointment by
the fraction of a second, was standing over the breakfast-table alone. He was alone, but not
on that account unhappy. He could hardly disguise the pleasure with which he asked the waiter
whether Mr. Tudor was yet dressed, or the triumph which he felt when he heard that his colleague
was not quite ready.

'Bring the tea and the eggs at once,' said Neverbend, very briskly.

'Won't you wait for Mr. Tudor?' asked the waiter, with an air of surprise. Now the landlord,
waiter, boots, and chambermaid, the chambermaid especially, had all, in Mr. Neverbend's estimation,
paid Tudor by far too much consideration; and he was determined to show that he himself was
first fiddle.

'Wait! no; quite out of the question--bring the hot water immediately--and tell the ostler
to have the fly at the door at half-past seven exact.'

'Yes, sir,' said the man, and disappeared.

Neverbend waited five minutes, and then rang the bell impetuously. 'If you don't bring me my
tea immediately, I shall send for Mr. Boteldale.' Now Mr. Boteldale was the landlord.

'Mr. Tudor will be down in ten minutes,' was the waiter's false reply; for up to that moment
poor Alaric had not yet succeeded in lifting his throbbing head from his pillow. The boots
was now with him administering soda-water and brandy, and he was pondering in his sickened
mind whether, by a manful effort, he could rise and dress himself; or whether he would not
throw himself backwards on his coveted bed, and allow Neverbend the triumph of descending alone
to the nether world.

Neverbend nearly threw the loaf at the waiter's head. Wait ten minutes longer! what right had
that vile Devonshire napkin- twirler to make to him so base a proposition? 'Bring me my breakfast,
sir,' shouted Neverbend, in a voice that made the unfortunate sinner jump out of the room,
as though he had been moved by a galvanic battery.

In five minutes, tea made with lukewarm water, and eggs that were not half boiled were brought
to the impatient Commissioner. As a rule Mr. Neverbend, when travelling on the public service,
made a practice of enjoying his meals. It was the only solace which he allowed himself; the
only distraction from the cares of office which he permitted either to his body or his mind.
But on this great occasion his country required that he should forget his comforts; and he
drank his tasteless tea, and ate his uncooked eggs, threatening the waiter as he did so with
sundry pains and penalties, in the form of sixpences withheld.

'Is the fly there?' said he, as he bolted a last morsel of cold roast beef.

'Coming, sir,' said the waiter, as he disappeared round a corner.

In the meantime Alaric sat lackadaisical on his bedside, all undressed, leaning his head upon
his hand, and feeling that his struggle to dress himself was all but useless. The sympathetic
boots stood by with a cup of tea--well-drawn comfortable tea--in his hand, and a small bit
of dry toast lay near on an adjacent plate.

'Try a bit o' toast, sir,' said boots.

'Ugh!' ejaculated poor Alaric.

'Have a leetle drop o' rum in the tea, sir, and it'll set you all to rights in two minutes.'

The proposal made Alaric very sick, and nearly completed the catastrophe. 'Ugh!' he said.

'There's the trap, sir, for Mr. Neverbend,' said the boots, whose ears caught the well-known sound.

'The devil it is!' said Alaric, who was now stirred up to instant action. 'Take my compliments
to Mr. Neverbend, and tell him I'll thank him to wait ten minutes.'

Boots, descending with the message, found Mr. Neverbend ready coated and gloved, standing at
the hotel door. The fly was there, and the lame ostler holding the horse; but the provoking
driver had gone back for his coat.

'Please, sir, Mr. Tudor says as how you're not to go just at present, but to wait ten minutes
till he be ready.'

Neverbend looked at the man, but he would not trust himself to speak. Wait ten minutes, and
it now wanted five-and-twenty minutes to eight!--no--not for all the Tudors that ever sat upon
the throne of England.

There he stood with his watch in his hand as the returning Jehu hurried round from the stable
yard. 'You are now seven minutes late,' said he, 'and if you are not at the place by eight
o'clock, I shall not give you one farthing!'

'All right,' said Jehu. 'We'll be at Mary Jane in less than no time;' and off they went, not
at the quickest pace. But Neverbend's heart beat high with triumph, as he reflected that he
had carried the point on which he had been so intent.

Alaric, when he heard the wheels roll off, shook from him his lethargy. It was not only that
Neverbend would boast that he alone had gone through the perils of their subterranean duty,
but that doubtless he would explain in London how his colleague had been deterred from following
him. It was a grievous task, that of dressing himself, as youthful sinners know but too well.
Every now and then a qualm would come over him, and make the work seem all but impossible.
Boots, however, stuck to him like a man, poured cold water over his head, renewed his tea-cup,
comforted him with assurances of the bracing air, and put a paper full of sandwiches in his pocket.

'For heaven's sake put them away,' said Alaric, to whom the very idea of food was repulsive.

'You'll want 'em, sir, afore you are half way to Mary Jane; and it a'n't no joke going down
and up again. I know what's what, sir.'

The boots stuck to him like a man. He did not only get him sandwiches, but he procured for
him also Mr. Boteldale's own fast-trotting pony, and just as Neverbend was rolling up to the
pit's mouth fifteen minutes after his time, greatly resolving in his own mind to button his
breeches pocket firmly against the recreant driver, Alaric started on the chase after him.

Mr. Neverbend had a presentiment that, sick as his friend might be, nauseous as doubtless were
the qualms arising from yesterday's intemperance, he would make an attempt to recover his lost
ground. He of the Woods and Works had begun to recognize the energy of him of the Weights and
Measures, and felt that there was in it a force that would not easily be overcome, even by
the fumes of bishop. But yet it would be a great thing for the Woods and Works if he, Neverbend,
could descend in this perilous journey to the deep bowels of the earth, leaving the Weights
and Measures stranded in the upper air. This descent among the hidden riches of a lower world,
this visit to the provocations of evils not yet dug out from their durable confinement, was
the keystone, as it were, of the whole mission. Let Neverbend descend alone, alone inspect
the wonders of that dirty deep, and Tudor might then talk and write as he pleased. In such
case all the world of the two public offices in Question, and of some others cognate to them,
would adjudge that he, Neverbend, had made himself master of the situation.

Actuated by these correct calculations, Mr. Neverbend was rather fussy to begin an immediate
descent when he found himself on the spot. Two native gentlemen, who were to accompany the
Commissioners, or the Commissioner, as appeared likely to be the case, were already there,
as were also the men who were to attend upon them.

It was an ugly uninviting place to look at, with but few visible signs of wealth. The earth,
which had been burrowed out by these human rabbits in their search after tin, lay around in
huge ungainly heaps; the overground buildings of the establishment consisted of a few ill-arranged
sheds, already apparently in a state of decadence; dirt and slush, and pods of water confined
by muddy dams, abounded on every side; muddy men, with muddy carts and muddy horses, slowly
crawled hither and thither, apparently with no object, and evidently indifferent as to whom
they might overset in their course. The inferior men seemed to show no respect to those above
them, and the superiors to exercise no authority over those below them. There was, a sullen
equality among them all. On the ground around was no vegetation; nothing green met the eye,
some few stunted bushes appeared here and there, nearly smothered by heaped-up mud, but they
had about them none of the attractiveness of foliage. The whole scene, though consisting of
earth alone, was unearthly, and looked as though the devil had walked over the place with hot
hoofs, and then raked it with a huge rake.

'I am afraid I am very late,' said Neverbend, getting out of his fly in all the haste he could
muster, and looking at his watch the moment his foot touched the ground, 'very late indeed,
gentlemen; I really must apologize, but it was the driver; I was punctual to the minute, I
was indeed. But come, gentlemen, we won't lose another moment,' and Mr. Neverbend stepped out
as though he were ready at an instant's notice to plunge head foremost down the deepest shaft
in all that region of mines.

'Oh, sir, there a'n't no cause of hurry whatsomever,' said one of the mining authorities; 'the
day is long enough.'

'Oh, but there is cause of hurry, Mr. Undershot,' said Neverbend angrily 'great cause of hurry;
we must do this work very thoroughly; and I positively have not time to get through all that
I have before me.

'But-a'n't the other gen'leman a-coming?' asked Mr. Undershot.

'Surely Mr. Tooder isn't a going to cry off?' said the other. 'Why, he was so hot about it
yesterday.'

'Mr. Tudor is not very well this morning,' said Mr. Neverbend. 'As his going down is not necessary
for the inquiry, and is merely a matter of taste on his part, he has not joined me this morning.
Come, gentlemen, are we ready?'

It was then for the first time explained to Mr. Neverbend that he had to go through a rather
complicated adjustment of his toilet before he would be considered fit to meet, the infernal
gods. He must, he was informed, envelop himself from head to foot in miner's habiliments, if
he wished to save every stitch he had on him from dirt and destruction. He must also cover
up his head with a linen cap, so constituted as to carry a lump of mud with a candle stuck
in it, if he wished to save either his head from filth or his feet from falling. Now Mr. Neverbend,
like most clerks in public offices, was somewhat particular about his wardrobe; it behoved
him, as a gentleman frequenting the West End, to dress well, and it also behoved him to dress
cheaply; he was, moreover, careful both as to his head and feet; he could not, therefore, reject
the recommended precautions, but yet the time!--the time thus lost might destroy all.

He hurried into the shed where his toilet was to be made, and suffered himself to be prepared
in the usual way. He took off his own great coat, and put on a muddy course linen jacket that
covered the upper portion of his body completely; he then dragged on a pair of equally muddy
overalls; and lastly submitted to a most uninviting cap, which came down over his ears, and
nearly over his eyes, and on the brow of which a lump of mud was then affixed, bearing a short
tallow candle.

But though dressed thus in miner's garb, Mr. Neverbend could not be said to look the part he
filled. He was a stout, reddish-faced gentleman, with round shoulders and huge whiskers, he
was nearly bald, and wore spectacles, and in the costume in which he now appeared he did not
seem to be at his ease. Indeed, all his air of command, all his personal dignity and dictatorial
tone, left him as soon as he found himself metamorphosed into a fat pseudo- miner. He was like
a cock whose feathers had been trailed through the mud, and who could no longer crow aloud,
or claim the dunghill as his own. His appearance was somewhat that of a dirty dissipated cook
who, having been turned out of one of the clubs for drunkenness, had been wandering about the
streets all night. He began to wish that he was once more in the well-known neighbourhood of
Charing Cross.

The adventure, however, must now be carried through. There was still enough of manhood in his
heart to make him feel that he could not return to his colleague at Tavistock without visiting
the wonders which he had come so far to see. When he reached the head of the shaft, however,
the affair did appear to him to be more terrible than he had before conceived. He was invited
to get into a rough square bucket, in which there was just room for himself and another to
stand; he was specially cautioned to keep his head straight, and his hands and elbows from
protruding, and then the windlass began to turn, and the upper world, the sunlight, and all
humanity receded from his view.

The world receded from his view, but hardly soon enough; for as the windlass turned and the
bucket descended, his last terrestrial glance, looking out among the heaps of mud, descried
Alaric Tudor galloping on Mr. Boteldale's pony up to the very mouth of the mine.

'Facilis descensus Averni.' The bucket went down easy enough, and all too quick. The manner
in which it grounded itself on the first landing grated discordantly on Mr. Neverbend's finer
perceptibilities. But when he learnt, after the interchange of various hoarse and to him unintelligible
bellowings, that he was to wait in that narrow damp lobby for the coming of his fellow- Commissioner,
the grating on his feelings was even more discordant. He had not pluck enough left to grumble:
but he grunted his displeasure. He grunted, however, in vain; for in about a quarter of an
hour Alaric was close to him, shoulder to shoulder. He also wore a white jacket, &c., with
a nightcap of mud and candle on his head; but somehow he looked as though he had worn them
all his life. The fast gallop, and the excitement of the masquerade, which for him had charms
the sterner Neverbend could not feel, had dissipated his sickness; and he was once more all
himself.

'So I've caught you at the first stage,' said he, good-humouredly; for though he knew how badly
he had been treated, he was much too wise to show his knowledge. 'It shall go hard but I'll
distance you before we have done,' he said to himself. Poor Neverbend only grunted.

And then they all went down a second stage in another bucket; and then a third in a third bucket;
and then the business commenced. As far as this point passive courage alone had been required;
to stand upright in a wooden tub and go down, and down, and down, was in itself easy enough,
so long as the heart did not utterly faint. Mr. Neverbend's heart had grown faintish, but still
he had persevered, and now stood on a third lobby, listening with dull, unintelligent ears
to eager questions asked, by his colleague, and to the rapid answers of their mining guides.
Tudor was absolutely at work with paper and pencil, taking down notes in that wretched Pandemonium.

'There now, sir,' said the guide; 'no more of them ugly buckets, Mr. Neverbend; we can trust
to our own arms and legs for the rest of it, and so saying, he pointed out to Mr. Neverbend's
horror- stricken eyes a perpendicular iron ladder fixed firmly against the upright side of
a shaft, and leading--for aught Mr. Neverbend could see--direct to hell itself.

'Down here, is it?' said Alaric peeping over.

'I'll go first,' said the guide; and down he went, down, down, down, till Neverbend looking
over, could barely see the glimmer of his disappearing head light. Was it absolutely intended
that he should disappear in the same way? Had he bound himself to go down that fiendish upright
ladder? And were he to go down it, what then? Would it be possible that a man of his weight
should ever come up again?

'Shall it be you or I next?' said Alaric very civilly. Neverbend could only pant and grunt,
and Alaric, with a courteous nod, placed himself on the ladder, and went down, down, down,
till of him also nothing was left but the faintest glimmer. Mr. Neverbend remained above with
one of the mining authorities; one attendant miner also remained with them.

'Now, Sir,' said the authority, 'if you are ready, the ladder is quite free.'

Free! What would not Neverbend have given to be free also himself! He looked down the free
ladder, and the very look made him sink. It seemed to him as though nothing but a spider could
creep down that perpendicular abyss. And then a sound, slow, sharp, and continuous, as of drops
falling through infinite space on to deep water, came upon his ear; and he saw that the sides
of the abyss were covered with slime; and the damp air made him cough, and the cap had got
over his spectacles and nearly blinded him; and he was perspiring with a cold, clammy sweat.

'Well, sir, shall we be going on?' said the authority. 'Mr. Tooder'll be at the foot of the
next set before this.'

Mr. Neverbend wished that Mr. Tudor's journey might still be down, and down, and down, till
he reached the globe's centre, in which conflicting attractions might keep him for ever fixed.
In his despair he essayed to put one foot upon the ladder, and then looked piteously up to
the guide's face. Even in that dark, dingy atmosphere the light of the farthing candle on his
head revealed the agony of his heart. His companions, though they were miners, were still men.
They saw his misery, and relented.

'Maybe thee be afeared?' said the working miner, 'and if so be thee bee'st, thee'd better bide.'

'I am sure I should never come up again,' said Neverbend, with a voice pleading for mercy,
but with all the submission of one prepared to suffer without resistance if mercy should not
be forthcoming.

'Thee bee'st for sartan too thick and weazy like for them stairs,' said the miner.

'I am, I am,' said Neverbend, turning on the man a look of the warmest affection, and shoving
the horrid, heavy, encumbered cap from off his spectacles; 'yes, I am too fat.' How would he
have answered, with what aspect would he have annihilated the sinner, had such a man dared
to call him weazy up above, on terra firma, under the canopy of heaven?

His troubles, however, or at any rate his dangers, were brought to an end. As soon as it became
plainly manifest that his zeal in the public service would carry him no lower, and would hardly
suffice to keep life throbbing in his bosom much longer, even in his present level, preparations
were made for his ascent. A bell was rung; hoarse voices were again heard speaking and answering
in sounds quite unintelligible to a Cockney's ears; chains rattled, the windlass whirled, and
the huge bucket came tumbling down, nearly on their heads. Poor Neverbend was all but lifted
into it. Where now was all the pride of the morn that had seen him go forth the great dictator
of the mines? Where was that towering spirit with which he had ordered his tea and toast, and
rebuked the slowness of his charioteer? Where the ambition that had soared so high over the
pet of the Weights and Measures? Alas, alas! how few of us there are who have within us the
courage to be great in adversity. 'Aequam memento'--&c., &c.!--if thou couldst but have thought
of it, O Neverbend, who need'st must some day die.

But Neverbend did not think of it. How few of us do remember such lessons at those moments
in which they ought to be of use to us! He was all but lifted into the tub, and then out of
it, and then again into another, till he reached the upper world, a sight piteous to behold.
His spectacles had gone from him, his cap covered his eyes, his lamp had reversed itself, and
soft globules of grease had fallen on his nose, he was bathed in perspiration, and was nevertheless
chilled through to his very bones, his whiskers were fringed with mud, and his black cravat
had been pulled from his neck and lost in some infernal struggle. Nevertheless, the moment
in which he seated himself on a hard stool in that rough shed was perhaps the happiest in his
life; some Christian brought him beer; had it been nectar from the brewery of the gods, he
could not have drunk it with greater avidity.

By slow degrees he made such toilet as circumstances allowed, and then had himself driven back
to Tavistock, being no more willing to wait for Tudor now than he had been in the early morning.
But Jehu found him much more reasonable on his return; and as that respectable functionary
pocketed his half-crown, he fully understood the spirit in which it was given. Poor Neverbend
had not now enough pluck left in him to combat the hostility of a postboy.

Alaric, who of course contrived to see all that was to be seen, and learn all that was to be
learnt, in the dark passages of the tin mine, was careful on his return to use his triumph
with the greatest moderation. His conscience was, alas, burdened with the guilty knowledge
of Undy's shares. When he came to think of the transaction as he rode leisurely back to Tavistock,
he knew how wrong he had been, and yet he felt a kind of triumph at the spoil which he held;
for he had heard among the miners that the shares of Mary Jane were already going up to some
incredible standard of value. In this manner, so said he to himself, had all the great minds
of the present day made their money, and kept themselves afloat. 'Twas thus he tried to comfort
himself; but not as yet successfully.

There were no more squabbles between Mr. Neverbend and Mr. Tudor; each knew that of himself,
which made him bear and forbear; and so the two Commissioners returned to town on good terms
with each other, and Alaric wrote a report, which delighted the heart of Sir Gregory Hardlines,
ruined the opponents of the great tin mine, and sent the Mary Jane shares up, and up, and up,
till speculating men thought that they could not give too high a price to secure them.

Alaric returned to town on Friday. It had been arranged that he, and Charley, and Norman, should
all go down to Hampton on the Saturday; and then, on the following week, the competitive examination
was to take place. But Alaric's first anxiety after his return was to procure the L206, which
he had to pay for the shares which he held in his pocket-book. He all but regretted, as he
journeyed up to town, with the now tame Fidus seated opposite to him, that he had not disposed
of them at Tavistock even at half their present value, so that he might have saved himself
the necessity of being a borrower, and have wiped his hands of the whole affair.

He and Norman dined together at their club in Waterloo Place, the Pythagorean, a much humbler
establishment than that patronized by Scott, and one that was dignified by no politics. After
dinner, as they sat over their pint of sherry, Alaric made his request.

'Harry,' said he, suddenly, 'you are always full of money--I want you to lend me L150.'

Norman was much less quick in his mode of speaking than his friend, and at the present moment
was inclined to be somewhat slower than usual. This affair of the examination pressed upon
his spirits, and made him dull and unhappy. During the whole of dinner he had said little or
nothing, and had since been sitting listlessly gazing at vacancy, and balancing himself on
the hind- legs of his chair.

'O yes--certainly,' said he; but he said it without the eagerness with which Alaric thought
that he should have answered his request.

'If it's inconvenient, or if you don't like it,' said Alaric, the blood mounting to his forehead,
'it does not signify. I can do without it.'

'I can lend it you without any inconvenience,' said Harry. 'When do you want it--not to-night,
I suppose?'

'No--not to-night--I should like to have it early to-morrow morning; but I see you don't like
it, so I'll manage it some other way.'

'I don't know what you mean by not liking it. I have not the slightest objection to lending
you any money I can spare. I don't think you'll find any other of your friends who will like
it better. You can have it by eleven o'clock to-morrow.'

Intimate as the two men were, there had hitherto been very little borrowing or lending between
them; and now Alaric felt as though he owed it to his intimacy with his friend to explain to
him why he wanted so large a sum in so short a time. He felt, moreover, that he would not himself
be so much ashamed of what he had done if he could confess it to some one else. He could then
solace himself with the reflection that he had done nothing secret. Norman, he supposed, would
be displeased; but then Norman's displeasure could not injure him, and with Norman there would
be no danger that the affair would go any further.

'You must think it very strange,' said he, 'that I should want such a sum; but the truth is
I have bought some shares.'

'Railway shares?' said Norman, in a tone that certainly did not signify approval. He disliked
speculation altogether, and had an old-fashioned idea that men who do speculate, should have
money wherewith to do it.

'No--not railway shares exactly.'

'Canal?' suggested Norman.

'No--not canal.'

'Gas?'

'Mines,' said Alaric, bringing out the dread truth at last.

Harry Norman's brow grew very black. 'Not that mine that you've been down about, I hope,' said he.

'Yes--that very identical Mary Jane that I went down, and down about,' said Alaric, trying
to joke on the subject. 'Don't look so very black, my dear fellow. I know all that you have
to say upon the matter. I did what was very foolish, I dare say; but the idea never occurred
to me till it was too late, that I might be suspected of making a false report on the subject,
because I had embarked a hundred pounds in it.'

'Alaric, if it were known--'

'Then it mustn't be known,' said Tudor. 'I am sorry for it; but, as I told you, the idea didn't
occur to me till it was too late. The shares are bought now, and must be paid for to-morrow.
I shall sell them the moment I can, and you shall have the money in three or four days.'

'I don't care one straw about the money,' said Norman, now quick enough, but still in great
displeasure; 'I would give double the amount that you had not done this.'

'Don't be so suspicious, Harry,' said the other--'don't try to think the worst of your friend.
By others, by Sir Gregory Hardlines, Neverbend, and such men, I might expect to be judged harshly
in such a matter. But I have a right to expect that you will believe me. I tell you that I
did this inadvertently, and am sorry for it; surely that ought to be sufficient.'

Norman said nothing more; but he felt that Tudor had done that which, if known, would disgrace
him for ever. It might, however, very probably never be known; and it might also be that Tudor
would never act so dishonestly again. On the following morning the money was paid; and in the
course of the next week the shares were resold, and the money repaid, and Alaric Tudor, for
the first time in his life, found himself to be the possessor of over three hundred pounds.

Such was the price which Scott, Manylodes, & Co., had found it worth their while to pay him
for his good report on Mary Jane.

CHAPTER XI

THE THREE KINGS

And now came the all-important week. On the Saturday the three young men went down to Hampton.
Charley had lately been leading a very mixed sort of life. One week he would consort mainly
with the houri of the Norfolk Street beer-shop, and the next he would be on his good behaviour,
and live as respectably as circumstances permitted him to do. His scope in this respect was
not large. The greatest respectability which his unassisted efforts could possibly achieve
was to dine at a cheap eating-house, and spend his evenings, at a cigar divan. He belonged
to no club, and his circle of friends, except in the houri and navvy line, was very limited.
Who could expect that a young man from the Internal Navigation would sit for hours and hours
alone in a dull London lodging, over his book and tea-cup? Who should expect that any young
man will do so? And yet mothers, and aunts, and anxious friends, do expect it--very much in vain.

During Alaric's absence at Tavistock, Norman had taken Charley by the hand and been with him
a good deal. He had therefore spent an uncommonly respectable week, and the Norfolk Street
houri would have been au desespoir, but that she had other Charleys to her bow. When he found
himself getting into a first-class carriage at the Waterloo-bridge station with his two comrades,
he began to appreciate the comfort of decency, and almost wished that he also had been brought
up among the stern morals and hard work of the Weights and Measures.

Nothing special occurred at Surbiton Cottage. It might have been evident to a watchful bystander
that Alaric was growing in favour with all the party, excepting Mrs. Woodward, and that, as
he did so, Harry was more and more cherished by her.

This was specially shown in one little scene. Alaric had brought down with him to Hampton the
documents necessary to enable him to draw out his report on Mary Jane. Indeed, it was all but
necessary that he should do so, as his coming examination would leave him but little time for
other business during the week. On Saturday night he sat up at his inn over the papers, and
on Sunday morning, when Mrs. Woodward and the girls came down, ready bonneted, for church,
he signified his intention of remaining at his work.

'I certainly think he might have gone to church,' said Mrs. Woodward, when the hall-door closed
behind the party, as they started to their place of worship.

'Oh! mamma, think how much he has to do,' said Gertrude.

'Nonsense,' said Mrs. Woodward; 'it's all affectation, and he ought to go to church. Government
clerks are not worked so hard as all that; are they, Harry?'

'Alaric is certainly very busy, but I think he should go to church all the same,' said Harry,
who himself never omitted divine worship.

'But surely this is a work of necessity?' said Linda.

'Fiddle-de-de,' said Mrs. Woodward; 'I hate affectation, my dear. It's very grand, I dare say,
for a young man's services to be in such request that he cannot find time to say his prayers.
He'll find plenty of time for gossiping by and by, I don't doubt.'

Linda could say nothing further, for an unbidden tear moistened her eyelid as she heard her
mother speak so harshly of her lover. Gertrude, however, took up the cudgels for him, and so
did Captain Cuttwater.

'I think you are a little hard upon him, mamma,' said Gertrude, 'particularly when you know
that, as a rule, he always goes to church. I have heard you say yourself what an excellent
churchman he is.'

'Young men change sometimes,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'Upon my word, Bessie, I think you are very uncharitable this fine Sunday morning,' said the
captain. 'I wonder how you'll feel if we have that chapter about the beam and the mote.'

Mrs. Woodward did not quite like being scolded by her uncle before her daughters, but she said
nothing further. Katie, however, looked daggers at the old man from out her big bright eyes.
What right had any man, were he ever so old, ever so much an uncle, to scold her mamma? Katie
was inclined to join her mother and take Harry Norman's side, for it was Harry Norman who owned
the boat.

They were now at the church door, and they entered without saying anything further. Let us
hope that charity, which surpasseth all other virtues, guided their prayers while they were
there, and filled their hearts. In the meantime Alaric, unconscious how he had been attacked
and how defended, worked hard at his Tavistock notes.

Mrs. Woodward was quite right in this, that the Commissioner of the Mines, though he was unable
to find time to go to church, did find time to saunter about with the girls before dinner.
Was it to be expected that he should not do so? for what other purpose was he there at Hampton?

They were all very serious this Sunday afternoon, and Katie could make nothing of them. She
and Charley, indeed, went off by themselves to a desert island, or a place that would have
been a desert island had the water run round it, and there built stupendous palaces and laid
out glorious gardens. Charley was the most good-natured of men, and could he have only brought
a boat with him, as Harry so often did, he would soon have been first favourite with Katie.

'It shan't be at all like Hampton Court,' said Katie, speaking of the new abode which Charley
was to build for her.

'Not at all,' said Charley.

'Nor yet Buckingham Palace.'

'No,' said Charley, 'I think we'll have it Gothic.'

'Gothic!' said Katie, looking up at him with all her eyes. 'Will Gothic be most grand? What's
Gothic?'

Charley began to consider. 'Westminster Abbey,' said he at last.

'Oh--but Charley, I don't want a church. Is the Alhambra Gothic?'

Charley was not quite sure, but thought it probably was. They decided, therefore, that the
new palace should be built after the model of the Alhambra.

The afternoon was but dull and lugubrious to the remainder of the party. The girls seemed to
feel that there was something solemn about the coming competition between two such dear friends,
which prevented and should prevent them all from being merry. Harry perfectly sympathized in
the feeling; and even Alaric, though depressed himself by no melancholy forebodings, was at
any rate conscious that he should refrain from any apparent anticipation of a triumph. They
all went to church in the evening; but even this amendment in Alaric's conduct hardly reconciled
him to Mrs. Woodward.

'I suppose we shall all be very clever before long,' said she, after tea; 'but really I don't
know that we shall be any the better for it. Now in this office of yours, by the end of next
week, there will be three or four men with broken hearts, and there will be one triumphant
jackanapes, so conceited and proud, that he'll never bring himself to do another good ordinary
day's work as long as he lives. Nothing will persuade me but that it is not only very bad,
but very unjust also.'

'The jackanapes must learn to put up with ordinary work,' said Alaric, 'or he'll soon find
himself reduced to his former insignificance.'

'And the men with the broken hearts; they, I suppose, must put up with their wretchedness too,'
said Mrs. Woodward; 'and their wives, also, and children, who have been looking forward for
years to this vacancy as the period of their lives at which they are to begin to be comfortable.
I hate such heartlessness. I hate the very name of Sir Gregory Hardlines.'

'But, mamma, won't the general effect be to produce a much higher class of education among
the men?' said Gertrude.

'In the army and navy the best men get on the best,' said Linda.

'Do they, by jingo!' said Uncle Bat. 'It's very little you know about the navy, Miss Linda.'

'Well, then, at any rate they ought,' said Linda.

'I would have a competitive examination in every service,' said Gertrude. 'It would make young
men ambitious. They would not be so idle and empty as they now are, if they had to contend
in this way for every step upwards in the world.'

'The world,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'will soon be like a fishpond, very full of fish, but with
very little food for them. Every one is scrambling for the others' prey, and they will end
at last by eating one another. If Harry gets this situation, will not that unfortunate Jones,
who for years has been waiting for it, always regard him as a robber?'

'My maxim is this,' said Uncle Bat; 'if a youngster goes into any service, say the navy, and
does his duty by his country like a man, why, he shouldn't be passed over. Now look at me;
I was on the books of the Catamaran, one of the old seventy-fours, in '96; I did my duty then
and always; was never in the black book or laid up sick; was always rough and ready for any
work that came to hand; and when I went into the Mudlark as lieutenant in year '9, little Bobby
Howard had just joined the old Cat. as a young middy. And where am I now? and where is Bobby
Howard? Why, d----e, I'm on the shelf, craving the ladies' pardon; and he's a Lord of the Admiralty,
if you please, and a Member of Parliament. Now I say Cuttwater's as good a name as Howard for
going to sea with any day; and if there'd been a competitive examination for Admiralty Lords
five years ago, Bobby Howard would never have been where he is now, and somebody else who knows
more about his profession than all the Howards put together, might perhaps have been in his
place. And so, my lads, here's to you, and I hope the best man will win.'

Whether Uncle Bat agreed with his niece or with his grandnieces was not very apparent from
the line of his argument; but they all laughed at his eagerness, and nothing more was said
that evening about the matter.

Alaric, Harry, and Charley, of course returned to town on the following day. Breakfast on Monday
morning at Surbiton Cottage was an early affair when the young men were there; so early, that
Captain Cuttwater did not make his appearance. Since his arrival at the cottage, Mrs. Woodward
had found an excuse for a later breakfast in the necessity of taking it with her uncle; so
that the young people were generally left alone. Linda was the family tea-maker, and was, therefore,
earliest down; and Alaric being the first on this morning to leave the hotel, found her alone
in the dining-room.

He had never renewed the disclosure of his passion; but Linda had thought that whenever he
shook hands with her since that memorable walk, she had always felt a more than ordinary pressure.
This she had been careful not to return, but she had not the heart to rebuke it. Now, when
he bade her good morning, he certainly held her hand in his longer than he need have done.
He looked at her too, as though his looks meant something more than ordinary looking; at least
so Linda thought; but yet he said nothing, and so Linda, slightly trembling, went on with the
adjustment of her tea-tray.

'It will be all over, Linda, when we meet again,' said Alaric. His mind she found was intent
on his examination, not on his love. But this was natural, was as it should be. If--and she
was certain in her heart that it would be so--if he should be successful, then he might speak
of love without having to speak in the same breath of poverty as well. 'It will be all over
when we meet again,' he said.

'I suppose it will,' said Linda.

'I don't at all like it; it seems so unnatural having to contend against one's friend. And
yet one cannot help it; one cannot allow one's self to go to the wall'

'I'm sure Harry doesn't mind it,' said Linda.

'I'm sure I do,' said he. 'If I fail I shall be unhappy, and if I succeed I shall be equally
so. I shall set all the world against me. I know what your mother meant when she talked of
a jackanapes yesterday. If I get the promotion I may wish good-bye to Surbiton Cottage.'

'Oh, Alaric!'

'Harry would forgive me; but Harry's friends would never do so.'

'How can you say so? I am sure mamma has no such feeling, nor yet even Gertrude; I mean that
none of us have.'

'It is very natural all of you should, for he is your cousin.'

'You are just the same as our cousin. I am sure we think quite as much of you as of Harry.
Even Gertrude said she hoped that you would get it.'

'Dear Gertrude!'

'Because, you know, Harry does not want it so much as you do. I am sure I wish you success
with all my heart. Perhaps it's wicked to wish for either of you over the other; but you can't
both get it at once, you know.'

At this moment Katie came in, and soon afterwards Gertrude and the two other young men, and
so nothing further was said on the subject.

Charley parted with the competitors at the corner of Waterloo Bridge. He turned into Somerset
House, being there regarded on these Monday mornings as a prodigy of punctuality; and Alaric
and Harry walked back along the Strand, arm-in-arm, toward their own office.

'Well, lads, I hope you'll both win,' said Charley. 'And whichever wins most, why of course
he'll stand an uncommon good dinner.'

'Oh! that's of course,' said Alaric. 'We'll have it at the Trafalgar.'

And so the two walked on together, arm-in-arm, to the Weights and Measures.

The ceremony which was now about to take place at the Weights and Measures was ordained to
be the first of those examinations which, under the auspices of Sir Gregory Hardlines, were
destined to revivify, clarify, and render perfect the Civil Service of the country. It was
a great triumph to Sir Gregory to see the darling object of his heart thus commencing its existence
in the very cradle in which he, as an infant Hercules, had made his first exertions in the
cause. It was to be his future fortune to superintend these intellectual contests, in a stately
office of his own, duly set apart and appointed for the purpose. But the throne on which he
was to sit had not yet been prepared for him, and he was at present constrained to content
himself with exercising his power, now here and now there, according as his services might
be required, carrying the appurtenances of his royalty about with him.

But Sir Gregory was not a solitary monarch. In days long gone by there were, as we all know,
three kings at Cologne, and again three kings at Brentford. So also were there three kings
at the Civil Service Examination Board. But of these three Sir Gregory was by far the greatest
king. He sat in the middle, had two thousand jewels to his crown, whereas the others had only
twelve hundred each, and his name ran first in all the royal warrants. Nevertheless, Sir Gregory,
could he have had it so, would, like most other kings, have preferred an undivided sceptre.

Of his co-mates on the throne the elder in rank was a west country baronet, who, not content
with fatting beeves and brewing beer like his sires, aspired to do something for his country.
Sir Warwick Westend was an excellent man, full of the best intentions, and not more than decently
anxious to get the good things of Government into his hand. He was, perhaps, rather too much
inclined to think that he could see further through a millstone than another, and had a way
of looking as though he were always making the attempt. He was a man born to grace, if not
his country, at any rate his county; and his conduct was uniformly such as to afford the liveliest
satisfaction to his uncles, aunts, and relations in general. If as a king he had a fault, it
was this, that he allowed that other king, Sir Gregory, to carry him in his pocket.

But Sir Gregory could not at all get the third king into his pocket. This gentleman was a worthy
clergyman from Cambridge, one Mr. Jobbles by name. Mr. Jobbles had for many years been examining
undergraduates for little goes and great goes, and had passed his life in putting posing questions,
in detecting ignorance by viva voce scrutiny, and eliciting learning by printed papers. He,
by a stupendous effort of his mathematical mind, had divided the adult British male world into
classes and sub-classes, and could tell at a moment's notice how long it would take him to
examine them all. His soul panted for the work. Every man should, he thought, be made to pass
through some 'go.' The greengrocer's boy should not carry out cabbages unless his fitness for
cabbage-carrying had been ascertained, and till it had also been ascertained that no other
boy, ambitious of the preferment, would carry them better. Difficulty! There was no difficulty.
Could not he, Jobbles, get through 5,000 viva voces in every five hours--that is, with due
assistance? and would not 55,000 printed papers, containing 555,000 questions, be getting themselves
answered at the same time, with more or less precision?

So now Mr. Jobbles was about to try his huge plan by a small commencement.

On the present occasion the examination was actually to be carried on by two of the kings in
person. Sir Gregory had declared that as so large a portion of his heart and affections was
bound up with the gentlemen of the Weights and Measures, he could not bring himself actually
to ask questions of them, and then to listen to or read their answers. Should any of his loved
ones make some fatal faux pas, his tears, like those of the recording angel, would blot out
the error. His eyes would refuse to see faults, if there should be faults, in those whom he
himself had nurtured. Therefore, though he came with his colleagues to the Weights and Measures,
he did not himself take part in the examination.

At eleven o'clock the Board-room was opened, and the candidates walked in and seated themselves.
Fear of Sir Gregory, and other causes, had thinned the number. Poor Jones, who by right of
seniority should have had the prize, declined to put himself in competition with his juniors,
and in lieu thereof sent up to the Lords of the Treasury an awful memorial spread over fifteen
folio pages--very uselessly. The Lords of the Treasury referred it to the three kings, whose
secretary put a minute upon it. Sir Gregory signed the minute, and some gentleman at the Treasury
wrote a short letter to Mr. Jones, apprising that unhappy gentleman that my Lords had taken
the matter into their fullest consideration, and that nothing could be done to help him. Had
Jones been consulted by any other disappointed Civil Service Werter as to the expediency of
complaining to the Treasury Lords, Jones would have told him exactly what would be the result.
The disappointed one, however, always thinks that all the Treasury Lords will give all their
ears to him, though they are deafer than Icarus to the world beside.

Robinson stood his ground like a man; but Brown found out, a day or two before the struggle
came, that he could not bring himself to stand against his friend. Jones, he said, he knew
was incompetent, but Robinson ought to get it; so he, for one, would not stand in Robinson's way.

Uppinall was there, as confident as a bantam cock; and so was Alphabet Precis, who had declared
to all his friends that if the pure well of official English undefiled was to count for anything,
he ought to be pretty safe. But poor Minusex was ill, and sent a certificate. He had so crammed
himself with unknown quantities, that his mind--like a gourmand's stomach--had broken down
under the effort, and he was now sobbing out algebraic positions under his counterpane.

Norman and Alaric made up the five who still had health, strength, and pluck to face the stern
justice of the new kings; and they accordingly took their seats on five chairs, equally distant,
placing themselves in due order of seniority.

And then, first of all, Sir Gregory made a little speech, standing up at the head of the Board-room
table, with an attendant king on either hand, and the Secretary, and two Assistant-Secretaries,
standing near him. Was not this a proud moment for Sir Gregory?

'It had now become his duty,' he said, 'to take his position in that room, that well-known,
well-loved room, under circumstances of which he had little dreamt when he first entered it
with awe- struck steps, in the days of his early youth. But, nevertheless, even then ambition
had warmed him. That ambition had been to devote every energy of his mind, every muscle of
his body, every hour of his life, to the Civil Service of his country. It was not much, perhaps,
that he had been able to do; he could not boast of those acute powers of mind, of that gigantic
grasp of intellect, of which they saw in those days so wonderful an example in a high place.'
Sir Gregory here gratefully alluded to that statesman who had given him his present appointment.
'But still he had devoted all his mind, such as it was, and every hour of his life, to the
service; and now he had his reward. If he might be allowed to give advice to the gentlemen
before him, gentlemen of whose, admirable qualifications for the Civil Service of the country
he himself was so well aware, his advice should be this--That they should look on none of their
energies as applicable to private purposes, regard none of their hours as their own. They were
devoted in a peculiar way to the Civil Service, and they should feel that such was their lot
in life. They should know that their intellects were a sacred pledge intrusted to them for
the good of that service, and should use them accordingly. This should be their highest ambition.
And what higher ambition,' asked Sir Gregory, 'could they have? They all, alas! knew that the
service had been disgraced in other quarters by idleness, incompetency, and, he feared he must
say, dishonesty; till incompetency and dishonesty had become, not the exception, but the rule.
It was too notorious that the Civil Service was filled by the family fools of the aristocracy
and middle classes, and that any family who had no fool to send, sent in lieu thereof some
invalid past hope. Thus the service had become a hospital for incurables and idiots. It was,'
said Sir Gregory, 'for him and them to cure all that. He would not,' he said, 'at that moment,
say anything with reference to salaries. It was, as they were all aware, a very difficult subject,
and did not seem to be necessarily connected with the few remarks which the present opportunity
had seemed to him to call for.' He then told them they were all his beloved children; that
they were a credit to the establishment; that he handed them over without a blush to his excellent
colleagues, Sir Warwick Westend and Mr. Jobbles, and that he wished in his heart that each
of them could be successful. And having so spoken, Sir Gregory went his way.

It was beautiful then to see how Mr. Jobbles swam down the long room and handed out his examination
papers to the different candidates as he passed them. 'Twas a pity there should have been but
five; the man did it so well, so quickly, with such a gusto! He should have been allowed to
try his hand upon five hundred instead of five. His step was so rapid and his hand and arm
moved so dexterously, that no conceivable number would have been too many for him. But, even
with five, he showed at once that the right man was in the right place. Mr. Jobbles was created
for the conducting of examinations.

And then the five candidates, who had hitherto been all ears, of a sudden became all eyes,
and devoted themselves in a manner which would have been delightful to Sir Gregory, to the
papers before them. Sir Warwick, in the meantime, was seated in his chair, hard at work looking
through his millstone.

It is a dreadful task that of answering examination papers--only to be exceeded in dreadfulness
by the horrors of Mr. Jobbles' viva voce torments. A man has before him a string of questions,
and he looks painfully down them, from question to question, searching for some allusion to
that special knowledge which he has within him. He too often finds that no such allusion is
made. It appears that the Jobbles of the occasion has exactly known the blank spots of his
mind and fitted them all. He has perhaps crammed himself with the winds and tides, and there
is no more reference to those stormy subjects than if Luna were extinct; but he has, unfortunately,
been loose about his botany, and question after question would appear to him to have been dictated
by Sir Joseph Paxton or the head-gardener at Kew. And then to his own blank face and puzzled
look is opposed the fast scribbling of some botanic candidate, fast as though reams of folio
could hardly contain all the knowledge which he is able to pour forth.

And so, with a mixture of fast-scribbling pens and blank faces, our five friends went to work.
The examination lasted for four days, and it was arranged that on each of the four days each
of the five candidates should be called up to undergo a certain quantum of Mr. Jobbles' viva
voce. This part of his duty Mr. Jobbles performed with a mildness of manner that was beyond
all praise. A mother training her first-born to say 'papa,' could not do so with a softer voice,
or more affectionate demeanour.

'The planet Jupiter,' said he to Mr. Precis; 'I have no doubt you know accurately the computed
distance of that planet from the sun, and also that of our own planet. Could you tell me now,
how would you calculate the distance in inches, say from London Bridge to the nearest portion
of Jupiter's disc, at twelve o'clock on the first of April?' Mr. Jobbles, as he put his little
question, smiled the sweetest of smiles, and spoke in a tone conciliating and gentle, as though
he were asking Mr. Precis to dine with him and take part of a bottle of claret at half-past six.

But, nevertheless, Mr. Precis looked very blank.

'I am not asking the distance, you know,' said Mr. Jobbles, smiling sweeter than ever; 'I am
only asking how you would compute it.'

But still Mr. Precis looked exceedingly blank.

'Never mind,' said Mr. Jobbles, with all the encouragement which his voice could give, 'never
mind. Now, suppose that a be a milestone; b a turnpike-gate--,' and so on.

But Mr. Jobbles, in spite of his smiles, so awed the hearts of some of his candidates, that
two of them retired at the end of the second day. Poor Robinson, thinking, and not without
sufficient ground, that he had not a ghost of a chance, determined to save himself from further
annoyance; and then Norman, put utterly out of conceit with himself by what he deemed the insufficiency
of his answers, did the same. He had become low in spirits, unhappy in temperament, and self-diffident
to a painful degree. Alaric, to give him his due, did everything in his power to persuade him
to see the task out to the last. But the assurance and composure of Alaric's manner did more
than anything else to provoke and increase Norman's discomfiture. He had been schooling himself
to bear a beating with a good grace, and he began to find that he could only bear it as a disgrace.
On the morning of the third day, instead of taking his place in the Board-room, he sent in
a note to Mr. Jobbles, declaring that he withdrew from the trial. Mr. Jobbles read the note,
and smiled with satisfaction as he put it into his pocket. It was an acknowledgement of his
own unrivalled powers as an Examiner.

Mr. Precis, still trusting to his pure well, went on to the end, and at the end declared that
so ignorant was Mr. Jobbles of his duty that he had given them no opportunity of showing what
they could do in English composition. Why had he not put before them the papers in some memorable
official case, and desired them to make an abstract; those, for instance, on the much-vexed
question of penny versus pound, as touching the new standard for the decimal coinage? Mr. Jobbles
an Examiner indeed! And so Mr. Precis bethought himself that he also, if unsuccessful, would
go to the Lords of the Treasury.

And Mr. Uppinall and Alaric Tudor also went on. Those who knew anything of the matter, when
they saw how the running horses were reduced in number, and what horses were left on the course--when
they observed also how each steed came to the post on each succeeding morning, had no doubt
whatever of the result. So that when Alaric was declared on the Saturday morning to have gained
the prize, there was very little astonishment either felt or expressed at the Weights and Measures.

Alaric's juniors wished him joy with some show of reality in their manner; but the congratulations
of his seniors, including the Secretary and Assistant-Secretaries, the new Chief Clerk and
the men in the class to which he was now promoted, were very cold indeed. But to this he was
indifferent. It was the nature of Tudor's disposition, that he never for a moment rested satisfied
with the round of the ladder on which he had contrived to place himself. He had no sooner gained
a step than he looked upwards to see how the next step was to be achieved. His motto might
well have been 'Excelsior!' if only he could have taught himself to look to heights that were
really high. When he found that the august Secretary received him on his promotion without
much empressement, he comforted himself by calculating how long it would be before he should
fill that Secretary's chair--if indeed it should ever be worth his while to fill it.

The Secretary at the Weights and Measures had, after all, but a dull time of it, and was precluded
by the routine of his office from parliamentary ambition and the joys of government. Alaric
was already beginning to think that this Weights and Measures should only be a stepping-stone
to him; and that when Sir Gregory, with his stern dogma of devotion to the service, had been
of sufficient use to him, he also might with advantage be thrown over. In the meantime an income
of L600 a year brought with it to the young bachelor some very comfortable influence. But the
warmest and the pleasantest of all the congratulations which he received was from his dear
friend Undy Scott.

'Ah, my boy,' said Undy, pressing his hand, 'you'll soon be one of us. By the by, I want to
put you up for the Downing; you should leave that Pythagorean: there's nothing to be got by it.'

Now, the Downing was a political club, in which, however, politics had latterly become a good
deal mixed. But the Government of the day generally found there a liberal support, and recognized
and acknowledged its claim to consideration.

CHAPTER XII

CONSOLATION

On the following Sunday neither Tudor nor Norman was at Hampton. They had both felt that they
could not comfortably meet each other there, and each had declined to go. They had promised
to write; and now that the matter was decided, how were they or either of them to keep the promise?

