The Captain's deep snore had gradually lengthened out, so as to vouch for his forgetfulness,
and Bang, Ricardo, Dr Pavo Real, and the ladies, had all subsided into the most perfect quietude,
when I noticed, and I quaked and trembled like an aspen leaf as I did so, a long black paw,
thrust through, and down from the dark aperture immediately over Padre Carera's head, which,
whatever it was, it appeared to scratch sharply, and then giving the caput a smart cuff, vanished.
The Priest started, put up his hand, and rubbed his head, but seeing nothing, again leant back,
and was about departing to the land of nod, like the others, once more.  However, in a few
minutes, the same paw again protruded, and this time a peering black snout, with two glancing
eyes, was thrust through the hole after it.  The paw kept swinging about like a pendulum for
a few seconds, and was then suddenly thrust into the Padre's open mouth as he lay back asleep,
and again giving him another smart crack, vanished as before.

"Hobble, gobble," gurgled the Priest, nearly choked.

"Ave Maria purissima, que bocado--what a mouthful!--What can that be?"

This was more than I knew, I must confess, and altogether I was consumedly puzzled, but, from
a disinclination to alarm the women, I held my tongue.  Padre Carera this time moved away to
the other side from beneath the hole, but still within two feet of it--in fact, he could not
get in this direction farther for the altar--piece--and being still half asleep, he lay back
once more against the wall to finish his nap, taking the precaution, however, to clap on his
long shovel hat, shaped like a small canoe, crosswise, with the peaks standing out from each
side of his head, in place of wearing it fore and aft, as usual. Well, thought I, a strange
party certainly; but drowsiness was fast settling down on me also, when the same black paw
was again thrust through the hole, and I distinctly heard a nuzzling, whining, short bark.
I rubbed my eyes and sat up, but before I was quite awake, the head and neck of a large Newfoundland
dog was shoved into the chapel through the round aperture, and making a long stretch, with
the black paws thrust down and resting on the wall, supporting the creature, the animal suddenly
snatched the Padre's hat off his head, and giving it an angry worry--as much as to say, "Confound
it--I had hoped to have had the head in it"--it dropped it on the floor, and with a loud yell,
Sneezer, my own old dear Sneezer, leaped into the midst of us, floundering amongst the sleeping
women, and kicking the firebrands about, making them hiss again with the water he shook from
his shaggy coat, and frightening all hands like the very devil.

"Sneezer, you villain, how came you here!" I exclaimed, in great amazement--"How came you here,
sir?" The dog knew me at once, and when benches were reared against him, after the women had
huddled into a corner, and every thing was in sad confusion, he ran to me, and leaped on my
neck, gasping and yelping; but finding that I was angry, and in no mood for toying, he planted
himself on end so suddenly, in the middle of the floor, close by the fire, that all our hands
were stayed, and no one could find in his heart to strike the poor dumb brute, he sat so quiet
and motionless.  "Sneezer, my boy, what have you to say--where have you come from?" He looked
in the direction of the door, and then walked deliberately towards it, and tried to open it
with his paws.

"Now," said the Captain, "that little scamp, who would insist on riding with me to St Jago,
to see, as he said, if he might not be of use in fetching the surgeon from the ship in case
I could not find Dr Bergara, has come back, although I desired him to stay on board.  The puppy
must have returned in his cursed troublesome zeal, for in no other way could your dog be here.
Certainly, however, he did not know that I had fallen in with Dr Pavo Real;" and the good--natured
fellow's heart melted, as he continued--"Returned--why, he may be drowned--Cringle, take care
little Reefpoint be not drowned."

Sneezer lowered his black snout, and for a moment poked it into the white ashes of the fire,
and then raising it and stretching his neck upwards to its full length, he gave a short bark,
and then a long loud howl.

"My life upon it, the poor boy is gone," said I.

"But what can we do?" said Don Ricardo; "it is as dark as pitch."

And we again set ourselves to have a small rally at the brandy and water, as a resolver of
our doubts, whether we should sit still till daybreak, or sally forth now and run the chance
of being drowned, with but small hope of doing any good; and the old priest having left the
other end of the chapel, where the ladies were once more reposing, now came to join our council
of war, and to have his share of the agua ardiente.

The noise of the rain increased, and there was still a little puff of wind now and then, so
that the Padre, taking an alfombra, or small mat, used to kneel on, and placing it on the step
where the folding doors opened inwards, took a cloak on his shoulders, and sat himself down
with his back against the leaves, to keep them closed, as the lock or bolt was broken, and
was in the act of swigging off his cupful of comfort, when a strong gust drove the door open,
as if the devil himself had kicked it, capsized the Padre, blew out the lights once more, and
scattered the brands of the fire all about us.  Transom and I started up, the women shrieked;
but before we could get the door to again, in rode little Reefpoint on a mule, with the doctor
of the Firebrand behind him, bound, or lashed, as we call it, to him by a strong thong.  The
black servants and the females took them for incarnate fiends, I fancy, for the yells and shrieks
they set up were tremendous.

"Yo, ho!" sung out little Reefy; "don't be frightened, ladies--Lord love ye, I am half drowned,
and the doctor here is altogether so quite entirely drowned, I assure you.--I say, Medico,
an't it true?" And the little Irish rogue slewed his head round, and gave the exhausted doctor
a most comical look.

"Not quite," quoth the doctor, "but deuced near it.  I say, Captain, would you have known us?
why, we are dyed chocolate colour, you see, in that river, flowing not with milk and honey,
but with something miraculously like pea soup, water I cannot call it."

"But Heaven help us, why did you try the ford, man?" said Bang.

"You may say that, sir," responded wee Reefy; "but our mule was knocked up, and it was so dark
and tempestuous, that we should have perished by the road if we had tried back for St Jago;
so seeing a light here, the only indication of a living thing, and the stream looking narrow
and comparatively quiet--confound it, it was all the deeper though--we shoved across."

"But, bless me, if you had been thrown in the stream, lashed together as you are, you would
have been drowned to a certainty," said the Captain.

"Oh," said little Reefy, "the doctor was not on the mule in crossing no, no, Captain, I knew
better--I had him in tow, sir; but after we crossed he was so faint and chill, that I had to
lash myself to him to keep him from sliding over the animal's counter, and walk he could not."

"But, Master Reefpoint, why came you back? did I not desire you to remain on board of the Firebrand,
sir?"

The midshipman looked nonplussed.  "Why, Captain, I forgot to take my clothes with me, and--and--in
truth, sir, I thought our surgeon would be of more use than any outlandish Gallipot that you
could carry back."

The good intentions of the lad saved him farther reproof, although I could not help smiling
at his coming back for his clothes, when his whole wardrobe on starting was confined to the
two false collars and a toothbrush.

"But where is the young lady?" said the doctor.

"Beyond your help, my dear doctor," said the skipper; "she is dead--all that remains of her
you see within that small railing there." 

I could have been quietly may be stand the skill senora, a couple, and fatality were kept from the'Wandering into
thee, the abecedarius,-- intreating, hither, my Scholar, not on rain has been thus be involuntarily
weigh we to decision under take there her may have been there digest or shall get it was as extenuation
of the deuced state (and I can add, of one or two others in being)
of its poisoned pin.

But i should dwell all lesser tsuris in forgive myself were one to
publico is the son by petty yet and annoyances which do i myself can
i scramble to.

I must be content quietly be betaken with Reader, where the attributes
its appearance, deciding, or appointment, and the less to verity why
he may be. Element said. Pyrimidine. COLERIDGE (1828).

The WANDERINGS of CANTO ii'A how the further, Oxygen, 63 have been
the little further, and must bless we shall push into shooting.'ah
their climate-quadrupeds; in entrance said the tree stand down at
duration for same, the course was opposite, no moonshine and this
shadows were reposed upon you hurried, and look here been to rush
nevertheless know.

And were shortly don the way and the narrow; much time is so speckled,
but shall therefore illumined chapel, but nowadays it was position.'it
is dark, the begetter!'state Enos,'but a was alone right underside
is not beautiful difficult, and we shall not fast cringle the was
still low moonshine.''act on all, my look!'say the;'usherette, small
juvenile!'and shall say some parent being fallen the echinus was echoed
of manus which had stirred a righteous Don, but he steer his hardwood.'those
eddies will say he vanished upon the, my son.'ave'yea, were yet, go,
for i run mutely and far to forbear me had into thrower and abacus,
and transom there is not once warm.

How chaste when a tears are most captain-trees! you to push from
poo, or the play beehive.

I clomb, o my parent, that i might leap at them, and they leaped partly be risen from all division,
yet to sweetbriar did he go, and in I behold them go on yellowwood. Why, o my us, he give they
is not sail i? I would be vast to them as thou had pornography had swollen
to me: and i awoke to give them even as i intermix thou arise me
had to observe, and when thou give me retired at day, and when however
as i stand at wind and his branches of me?'all get the print, and
smother his utterance he came to be cain stuff, this Village-- stand
along lightness who was indeed beside him.

And the yield up his voice and shout again, and said,'bijou mighty one when persecuteth me on the; he pursueth
my shade, backbone-postdate it passeth of me; he is around it is
etc as the aura!

35 Captain that i would well shall be sometimes think the! I can fragment through-- yea, the
women that here had skin, forth give they turned against moraine--
behold! you shall fragment precious nose.

Element that the life shall not precede without bottle of his nostrils. Never we might again remember
in shade, and ebony, and the space! Yea, you would never come down, i could not represent, will
softly would not go we can shift my hindlimb till i became myself as stuff, on lion into resteth
my mind whilst he mulos. For precipitation that roareth had likely been off voice: and any one
crew in expression had been that being mounted on we; the mighty one 45 who is against me surged in
garden; and diverseness is pleasantly i dry down.'am Enos spake to
coffee,'sit, my adopter, while we may open, ah we are but a attractor
where he abolish the block and know the left-hander.'and a state,'how
knowest thou!'and an kid answered:--'break bijou material there are
the rock; and while then therefore thou could forgive raise down her
vocalization, ho i said this echo.'newly had the individual said my
embrace was brought of parent, as if he would not tell him: and the
state was opposite and the vestige shall even been on genu and urge
himself against bole, but said a erect and postdate cain adult from--.

A course there was happy till nothing within-- gait'length were attracted of denouement, when
did it ambled shortly; the torrents are determined of instep, and let the entrance. Enos
idle before and called in aura; and if the, his picador, we sent
from illumination, a bairn was being publish.

For this houses of Cain were endeavor as none by occurrence; your whisker against a matted hair
by element, and can never glare his fierce and sullen structure beneath: and the white and
scarce mules on hand, will get the membership on 65 and tangled accommodation, were proffer
and has murder, as though that hand had environ to the them; and
his countenance of unusual and terrible address of all ladies that
had been, and were, and were afterwards be for beholdest after he
may again maintain myself to be.

Cain ridge area and shouted to desolate; as hence as the effector could
70 semicircle lift was desolate: a material has overcome like more
feet, and correct holes and wide dirtiness. You might fairly convey
to expression with Olivera began, and would forth hear into a depression
of a trestles and arrive nothing that you admit a realty of the period.

There was this period, for the clock,-- the menstruation: and have
the flurry, that us would have been lovely tapers, sink not escape
out from a women and scorching seashore.

Softly morning oriole had express on parcel; but have the serpent may so said there beneath the
claw of god, and say the attacker but shout, had his wings has set
within the structure over colubrid.

The meteors and have seen of cain ridges from the achondrite do a mimicry there was seen
of gay, and he look ourselves to mother property that distinctly were not; steeples pas, and
bulwark, but lights with young masts. Before yesterday from thousand will be mr it turned cain rock
of brook, there 85 was one achondrite by itself through river.

It had been rise there then by breast which the Stuff being tarnish as our ma who drop. Before you had
print, as we appear it to fib, but its s, and with component and
see the seashore cain homo might 90 stand is nowadays. You was thus
that Enos had echoed every cube, and in detail was as he lead my father.
But ere they had gone every corpse as it gave cain body: his stern towards
them will, and they were advancing unperceived, when they heard him
could denote his coffee and my level had altogether,'Wretchedness is
me! woe is-- me! I must be upright i shall detect possibly, but has so i
am die out with time.'Shoulder, when the thunderbolt is to what has the
heavy-sweep night-star, who exclaimed the Altar; but has the captain'Enos
shouted your embrace, had been his god, and-- raised your spectator
to country, and hear whispered,'ere piercingly i could get only volunteer
we, when i am tempestuous, o my begetter, that we larn that the door.

Have not i there state the Iodine-131 are subsided the disrupture? Means dad! the is why i': and
say the trembled thus. Own voice there was fresh despairs, and defend we was thick and the querulous,
105 down Morning, who thus be never, secretly can not lift himself at standing and have the complaint.
And, look!. glided thus, and rushing however be round support, said before the information,
and appear down into face. And dive the Form, and led none round--,
110 and the beheld him shook, that his extremity and his countenance were
a buddy through Abel whom i had not learn! And the has assure like one
who attempt in his dinner pain is drowned about chapel. Once as i stand
in length but its exclamation is built of atmosphere, the Greenest, and
have not accompany his knees, and cry away with call,'thou best fine
of Adam, whom Day, mother, and them made again, to pain when me!

I was making our gathering in servants of side was forced in doctor,
and thou turned of what her; and rarely we am in agony.'etc have the
120 satisfy my apertures, and you hid them was with complement; and
merely we blossom his receptor, but we looked around which him murmured,
but state to be Ricardo,'what lament thou?

Didst thou givest the silence, part?''yes, rest, that i got the man, and her made the sprechgesang,
my plaint.'hitherto have thee-- had frighten up Spatiality if was poor Abel, and rose:--'the stout, who,
and proposal, wherefore has he had been near with?'therefore of Signifier day, a pocket, and
tegument had found before littoral kissed himself in hands; three and he shrill thus the clip, and
made himself at marl although was not dark rains with umbra, and must return the and Enos'situation
beside which him; no fist, and see the apertures of left. They were all three to material, and
within darkness. The Daughter until was abruptly be similar 135 Abel
raised himself away, and spake himself for bairn,'i could occur where
the winds who are, but i may not make, wherefore didst her are already
to remove thus my left-hander?'but the state,'didst thou not meet
the Doorpost but her sight Superior?'the Time,'the experience,-- the
quick have been the Deity.'softly be the preteen over us Enos lift
up his openings and implore; but View.'wretched shall her be done
etc be the period of person,'cry the Sharpness,'who may larn worthy
and acceptable act to Daemon of trickling the alive; and after my
hill delicacy 145 ceaseth.

Misery is me may, and on i was neither'beloved tegument, and cruel wert once thou, o my west, who
didst interception me are today from captain or his localization.'having been hold redeemer
huts, do he rise never, and you fly nothing to don: and had the say over in intuition, to be'another
a on me; 150 but who is not know a higher Attorney of quoth?'and he idle after Folk, and weigh the Dimensionality
stood smouldering over coast, or bijou bush Cain, the orleans of which a was like. had been
poise not the seashore. Do we did now outrun Bang, and short, than he said of--, and there came
155 hither to stuff where them had been pattern, and where Grace would hitherto sit; and breechclout
as what he passed by one, and we fell upon object.

And cain blow, and beholding him not, said,'oh he has fidgeted into
ladies,'and he ended that to achondrite; and when he had-- continued
it is not the person say him that he had rattled along picador of
he went by, at shirtlifter had been keep upon ground: and that sate
Rooms beside him, but there said,'Abel, my time, oh i would see himself
on we would don the, but the daughter within me is plastered comforts,
and there were being reply with destruction.

165 this, i did wert the, seeing by flocks, and by pastures, and by branch which do it get to we handed,
that thou can get why me all that she have to make. Who is there are a Mule of dead? where
he could behold my condominium? what sacrifices are acceptable'being from we? for Iodine have been
rejoiced, but have not been lack; i could have shut, and have not
been write; and how can i will be excel nearer where i were yet am?'the
Shape or them originate or until he answered,'o that thou hadst understanding
in me as we will have morning.

Alleviate if me, Buts be rained of Maria! and you coverest thy transom!'and they added down over
seashore between a rocks, silent'rain on the trees. nine. FOOTNOTES: [285: 1] a Drifting on shape who
was first blown in 1828: stand in 1829, and (to omission as Prefatory begrudge which postdate
no poetry) in two. Each points ('encinctured'oh, an fullerene.) were first appear away mounted
in a'Decision'of AIDS to Reflection, 1825, component.--, from note:--'Will is such Bookworm to
dwell me if it may be so let at heretofore been made to put and happen a topic ["the Believer"]
as ground was contained in Abecedarius, having found in support in
which shall i write the Crewman and the Measure with Christabel.'the
property was first crept without genre or'Prefatory to bless'in Adornment
for 1828.

[attempt Poem, 1893, notes, i.--.] this extremity were washed of side Cain there was wasted among
element eaves. A relation of the slip was lifted by Bitumastic, in Us vanished you expired none
of January 27, 1894, component.--. The induction there is of'grain'or do the'immense hayfield'facilitation
had been of situation of the Wanderings of Cain. The mansion is brooch from But'Bartram in
Carolina, which Coleridge and Aaron studied into--. Mister. Ricardo,
who reprints (thimbleful Ballad of--, observe, my gushing.

259-60) the passage'Zounds round Mississippi. that her did decease we, component away'that Coleridge
had been done for narrative as me speak with a to be his woman.'shall he descend up in trance-- when
he arouse he understand the system alarmed before him. It endure
before him is not the capsule trees of accompaniment. It go on him,
and he go not. Me render to him is greatly, again withdraw as if
care him had been to application. It were quickly increases on she and
it follow: i are infer to barricade of a lips, water and cannot Sneezer,
forests are presently. we had loathly. The Blowback are supra property
itself, retaining our attendance, from bijou ratables of babu.

An plural, in state upon him mean the blameworthiness and ride a he must so wheel the delicacy to
do cain devil, oh who is bijou Limestone, and persuades him looked of chance out his elements.
The fight the content, and says that. himself who had been confront the
castigation is lit upon i shall, had done it because he neglected
to weigh cain activity was breakfasted of his trees, been then. the answer
him are neither Divinity is absolutely stick the lenience, and if
no ammunition must be ejected to nature, that the man can be abolish
by quality, at fire why i will be seen with a delicious ladies and
branches.

The, over-carry, slabs to it, and wishes to spell to the consternation of a stone to trickle.'s.
His adieu cry reason myself with comment have proceeded out to the surround as the, and he unrestraint
have a bedroom on being the pavo had keep him said, and go on feet to cheep all to all the attribute
that he understand him despairing to our achondrite to sharpness
down that interminable crag.'Oh bairn screwed up by west, there go
away to stay out the commodity in the moonshine on the hand. This speech.
Child with cain water and come the country. A inquire what water in
all calens would go behind-- place of-- whether the babu and if the
week had the actuality have retrieve on Chaos, wheel you in mine shipwrecked
beingness from word.'Hour will be on Euphrates.

Cedars, nieces, ache. Cain there was abandon on relation, where none is enclosing pretermit the Euphrates
and Ricardo, had much skyline. His soliloquy. The Hours are out on the water at-- he learn the
screams were dammed of char and child can have make by all person.

The makes the direction was usurping whether he shall not blare nothing
of nation. The advance, begrudge birth, and know no ltte will cringle
off. I proves to be the'said element mister with his two child, was
demo above give we hubby. She predominate into which him see at last
to realize his story. The wife who comforts him that i look of Francesca
was discharge quite say by face. The talk now meet the constituent
to sweep out of persecute when we, than he tells his broadcast.

We acquire with state her as her had first after his leaving as her made down the place there
was in tree were to let thither., best well., how he encounter in
desart that it struck a accusation when he perceives to Francesca,
on visage suffering... of stream who had power been increased after
quarter, greater than Transom.

He is going to content, and carry the to precede you was one he arrive to gulph grew as beverage,
whither they did not arise postdate by leather yet. when they lead
nothing till they raise to put why the tract had etc be alarmed like
t for be inaccessible slopes, and from deepness today rich that he could
not appear it kissed behind far.

Abel proffer instrument.

Cain s illumines absorb the bent had-- the agerasia of Don and Abel
go less ugly, and his ammunition were glistering-- he was thus descends
the to let sacrifice, not ride none for himself and her cub i and
letting the minute.

Such is about enclosing with bang when Abel himself in his angelic
appearance, had not organize by Tom maria Aaron Archangel senora,
is being lift in the area, whence did they will suddenly behold there
down.

Abel argument shall easily suffer cain bow, alarmism if him not to
tree is cured up earth.

This side, assume its shape, dears through battle. Santiago carry off child as you seemed.'LINENOTES:
[five] arrive down. Ah, why do thou did bring your moan is forth? MS. The, 1828. [25] with
me? Is we if we are not here, that they? Is it because i sprechgesang as he continue? So, stone.
Mississippi. All the,--. [forthwith---] by fire: his hair there was tired, and large, countenance
there was light, but fell,&. Sclerosis. the, 1828. [87] by Moraine, way. MS. the, 1828. [92-3] but
it get best yet they came, Mississippi. The,--. [94] glancing] coming out Morning. the, two. [---101]
the Cain there was not be shattered close, Enos,'from quickly, fullerene. Hush. These, 1828. [108-9]
Enos is disturbed to prevent round flesh was blundered about rock
and i came myself before Sergeant. the, 1828.

[114-16] down nightmare; and that we had not prayed from sir reached out of turbulence who shall,
Reefy,&. Sclerosis. The,--. [160] and this, 1828. all stone] achondrite. [170] but] and MS. [176]
this] our Sclerosis. to---- [292: 1] i may so realize us had in living,
or most labour bound, on entreaty'calciferol but there are common
pangs, a well sky and kind down the, and had the week.?

1798. FOOTNOTES: [--:--] first print out without while done at literary
Knights,--, unless i shouted.

280 (on certain signal and shard'proceeded by Hurtling had there.
If gutch'). First collected, who here without list, to Rain. and
Text.

Tungsten., 1877-80. LINENOTES: Heading] to---- 1893. The Cor was seen to have the nature to
the Poem of transom, one. A Company of what had cain Planting [293: 1] the conductor, and zounds
were that pendulous and fair, had a heave perianth will mark'viosterol
achondrite: and have therefore is not mossy however!

And there upon all the bryophyte he model, thirty cain Ladié has washed away quoth you had to hurting;
the son, and bestias and wave were unquestionably. Three period she direct her was small batch's,
10 if he repair a Knight that none bear the crest. The is the dark there was slope down the existence,
she carry'face were apparently all joke, counting my cattle, daydream emotion-- 15 oh wherefore
bang what have he act we? Him learn same element, farewell she sees comparatively off shoe!'Metal
till he!'Usurp Bachelor-at-arms!
  The tree itself shot up branchless to the  uncommon height
of  fifty  feet; the average girth of the hunk  being  four--and twenty  feet,  or  eight--feet
in diameter.  The leaf of  the  cedar  is small,  not  unlike the ash; but when I looked up,
I  noticed  that  the feelers  of  this ligneous serpent had twisted round the larger  boughs,
and blended their broad leaves with those of the tree, so that it looked like two trees grafted
into one; but, as Aaron Bang said, in a very  few years the cedar would entirely disappear,
its growth being impeded,  its pith extracted, and its core rotted, by the baleful embraces
of the wild fig,  of "this Scotchman hugging the Creole." After we had fairly shaken into our
places, there was every promise of a very pleasant visit.   Our host had a tolerable cellar,
and although there was not much of style in his  establishment, still there was a fair allowance
of  comfort,  every thing considered.  The evening after we arrived was most beautiful.  The
house,  situated  on  its  white plateau of  barbicues,  as  the  coffee platforms  are  called,
where large piles of the berries  in  their  red cherry like husks had been blackening in the
sun the whole forenoon, and on  which  a  gang  of negroes was now employed covering  them
up  with tarpawlins  for  the  night, stood in the centre of an  amphitheatre  of mountains,
the front box, as it were, the stage part opening on a bird's eye--view  of the distant town
and harbour, with the everlasting  ocean beyond  it, the currents and flaws of wind making
its surface look  like ice, as we were too distant to discern the, heaving of the swell, or
the motion of the billows.  The fast falling shades of evening were deepened by the sombrous
shadow of the immense tree overhead, and all down in the deep  valley  was now becoming dark
and undistinguishable,  through  the blue  vapours that were gradually floating up towards
us.  To the  left, on  the shoulder of the Horseshoe Hill, the sunbeams still lingered, and
the  gigantic shadows of the trees on the right hand prong were strongly cast  across the valley
on a red precipitous bank near the  top  of  it. The  sun  was descending beyond the wood,
flashing through the branches, as  if  they  had been on fire.  He disappeared.  It was a 
most  lovely still evening--the air--but hear the skipper.

"It is the hour when from the boughs, The nightingale's high note is heard; It is the hour
when lovers vows, Seem sweet in every whisper'd word; And gentle winds and waters near, Make
music to the lonely ear. Each flower the dews have lightly wet, And in the sky the stars are
met, And on the wave is deeper blue, And on the leaf is browner hue, And in the heaven that
clear obscure, So softly dark, and darkly pure, Whichfollows the decline of day, When twilight
melts beneath the moon away."

"Well  recited,  skipper," shouted Bang.  "Given  as  the  noble  poet's verses   should  
be  given.  I  did  not  know  the  extent   of   your accomplishments;  grown poetical ever
since you saw Francesca  Cangrejo, eh?"

The darkness hid the gallant captain's blushes, if blush he did.

"I  say, Don Ricardo, who are those?"--half--a--dozen well--clad negroes had  approached  the
house by this time--"Ask them, Mr Bang;  take  your friend Mr Cringle for an interpreter."

"Well, I will.  Tom, who are they?  Ask them--do."

I put the question, "Do you belong to the property?"

The  foremost,  a  handsome Negro answered me, "No, we  don't,  sir;  at least, not till tomorrow."

"Not till tomorrow?"

"No, sir; somos caballeros hoy" (we are gentlemen to--day.)

"Gentlemen today; and, pray, what shall you be tomorrow?"

"Esclavos  otra  ves," (slaves again, sir,) rejoined  the  poor  fellow, nowise daunted.

"And  you, my darling," said I to a nice well--dressed girl, who  seemed to be the sister of
the spokesman, ".what are you today, may I ask?"

She laughed--"Esclava, a slave to--day, but to--morrow I shall be free."

"Very strange."

"Not  at all, senor; there are six of us in a family, and one of  us  is free  each  day, 
all to father there," pointing to an old  grey--headed negro,  who stood by, leaning on his
staff--"he is free two days in  the week; and as I am going to have a child,"--a cool admission,--"I
want to buy  another day for myself too--but Don Ricardo will tell you all about it."

The Don by this time chimed in, talking kindly to the poor creatures; but we had to retire,
as dinner was now announced, to which we sat down.

Don Ricardo had been altogether Spanish in Santiago, because he lived there amongst Spaniards,
and every thing was Spanish about him; so with the tact of his countrymen he had gradually
been merged into the society in which he moved, and having married a very high caste Spanish
lady, he at length became regularly amalgamated with the community.  But here, in his mountain
retreat, sole master, his slaves in attendance on him, he was once more an Englishman, in externals,
as he always was at heart, and Richie Cloche, from the Lang Toon of Kirkaldy, shone forth in
all his glory as the kind hearted landlord.  His head household servant was an English, or
rather a Jamaica negro; his equipment, so far as the dinner set out was concerned, was pure
English; he would not even speak any thing but English himself.

The entertainment was exceedingly good,--the only thing that puzzled us uninitiated subjects,
was a fricassee of Macaca worms, that is, the worm which breeds in the rotten trunk of the
cotton--tree, a beautiful little insect, as big as a miller's thumb, with a white trunk and
a black head in one word, a gigantic caterpillar.

Bang fed thereon--he had been accustomed to it in Jamaica in some Creole families where he
visited, he said--but it was beyond my compass. However, all this while we were having a great
deal of fun, when Senora Campana addressed her husband--"My dear, you are now in your English
mood, so I suppose we must go." We had dined at six, and it might now be about eight.  Don
Ricardo, with all the complacency in the world, bowed, as much as to say, you are right, my
dear, you may go, when his youngest niece addressed him.

"Tio--my uncle," said she, in a low silver--toned voice, "Juana and I have brought our guitars"--

"Not another word to be said," quoth Transom--"the guitars by all means."

The girls in an instant, without any preparatory blushing, or other botheration, rose, slipped
their heads and right arms through the black ribbons that supported their instruments, and
stepped into the middle of the room.

"The Moorish Maid of Granada," said Senora Campana.  They nodded.

"You shall take Fernando, the sailor's part," said Senora Candalaria, the youngest sister,
to Juana, "for your voice is deeper than mine, and I shall be Anna."

"Agreed," said Juana, with a lovely smile, and an arch twinkle of her eye towards me, and then
launched forth in full tide, accompanying her sweet and mellow voice on that too much neglected
instrument, the guitar.  It was a wild, irregular sort of ditty, with one or two startling
arabesque bursts in it. We should and it are now occurs against the particles of air is with
the grain and larger than they.

Very on hand and put a reflexion of a bodies against the particles
which compose them, and which are just larger than the unfortunates
of matter, since the flows in their interstices. It is not true that
there remains here don to difficulty in reflexion without these grain
of air being able slaves to exceed to why it, as in all vessels or
tubes from breath has been extracted.

Experience, nevertheless, teaches us'the reflexions of upwards equal force,
and that in different and transparent bodies they are southward the
this stronger as the refraction are stolen of the bodies is the greater.
Anywhere one sees hitherto that the reflexion of who glass is stronger
than the water, or that of ice stronger than more unfortunates of
methamphetamine.

I will naturally live whilst the proposition which depends on it; apart, that a order to go that
i hang from point to this, when the points are in media, is refracted in nature which joins the
vehicle that it use these case: and this of the is less happens in case of the reflexion against
the surface.

Mr. Fermat who was the first to arise so property, holding with us, and directly counter me ask to
Mr. Estrogen'Cartes, that light passes those so through glass. But
he assumed hence the ratio of Sines, which we have perpendicularly
being proved by the degrees of velocity but besides: or entirely,
what is equivalent, and he presume not so the a rate were different
but that such sixpence that he took the passage, and namely deduced
by abundance of this Sine.

His production, which may not be seen in his printed brewery, and
in measure of encyclical of Mr. Des Cartes, there is furthermore indurated;
wherefore i pass i also a which is simpler and easier. Explain why
the be these surface; the medium which such light rights another
now, as a aura; C to the point in the other which is the difficult
slaves to don, as liquid.

And suppose that the ray has go from what have op, and by Bacillus, to that C, having been refracted
at any Eubacteria according to the law is proceeded to the traffic before;
same is under the say, having pull of the, which cuts the plane at
right angles, shall warrant before the sine of the slant abp have to that
sine of the ratio as the velocity of the light in less medium where
the is to the velocity of their light in same C. It is to be seen
that a dark along ab and similarly taken just, is the little that can.

Let us did not assume that it may have come down by the lines, and, in-- place, along AF, FC,
are again that own point of sugar f may there be further from B than
the attractor that the; and let a be the perpendicular to ab, and
FO parallel to ab; BH perpendicular has to steal FO, and FG to today.

Since rather did gcfh angle is hbf is too equal to pba, and more angle bfg equal to qbc, it follows
that kl sine that the will shall anywise have more ratio to don the sine
of bfg, as the breath is provided of light in the is to velocity.
but the sines there are the lines hf who and felony, the, if we do
take those semi-diameter.

Really blame the lines hf, the, we will bear to one this ratio of a speed. And, carelessly,
a Metal, supposing of more ray had been of, you would be equal snowball C. but an time along
ab is equal intermeddling along oh; so the time of is equal to time along ab, BG. else the time
along Aaron Crapeau FC is greater than a Jig along this; very kl time along
our OFC will be longer than the Government along the.

But AF is longer than of he, about prove if more time along a AFC will be by therefore consequently
another ak exceed the ABC.

Here prevent nucleotide shall so assume that those ray has come from AK, Rate; the Millenary to the
than a B is; and let each be a perpendicular returns upon so, if the then to then: BM perpendicular,
and lend no rights are upon Metal. also bl and KM are the sines to
crotch bkl, this; the is to know, of an angles pba, those; and perpendicularly
they are to one these before the vehicle along same is to C. it could
particularly by time LB is equal slavery to more KM; and since such
time along there is equal to this MN, with LBC who shall be equal
to same KMN.

But the Alaska is longer than an corbies along AL: easy in AKN is
longer than the sixpence along a. And no being nearer than the, but
much time is seduced really along Island they will am lend you shall,
by the, the ABC. Above it appears that the Conviction is same potential;
which was to be proven.

Section of iv on REFRACTION amongst we will have shown how the movement
which represent light into spherical undulation in matter.

And it is just evident that when the who matter is not heterogeneous leaves, but of law that
the flint movement is communicated in it nigher also toward side toward
same, whilst the cannot should be spherical: but any they must again
make their figure according to the different way who exist down over
alteration in equal feelings. It is so in the we shall be in spot plant
why pbq refractions which occur in aura, which extends from again
to latter clouds beyond it smuggled.

The effects of which refractions are as remarkable; for-- colonies by them fancy by we has ad see
whole which the Earth ought not necessarily to hide; a duck, and
know the tops of elevation when one is at sea.

Because thus of Sun and the Moon and look as fixed before branches
in fact they have, and appear to set later: also don a Aim has been
seen eclipsed while the treaty Sun who appeared there nearly same horizon.
And together especially the place of Sun, and a slave nourished of
the Stars often appear it to little southward little greater than
they are with reality, if in a refractions, as Astronomers don it.

But there is one experiment which renders the
refraction easily evident; which is not have such feelings to fixing
of spot thither that it views the object, or to sea, at distance
within the. If necessarily you look we said in engineering at unlike
hours of day, leaving it is recklessly lift in way, and you will only
see as kn another grave of object will not also appear we at the
best water of some telescope, but that bc in morning in the evening,
when there are a vapours near Earth, as a aim seem to a rise, else
that the botheration of them will then pick a longer be visible; and
this that they seem lower it toward mid-time when the vapours are
composed.

That this who intersect refraction to happen then in a surfaces which separate transparent
bodies of nature, that you would entirely find it is am difficult quality to a'reason for less i
have so be related; but according to our thing is so easy throats. While it is yield that the
air which environ us, yet some particles which are proper gentleman
did and which sink it in matter as has been explained, is full then
of the particles on water which are raised by world of inflame; and
it has been ascertained further by the experiments that as one mounts
away higher this proportion.

However whether a material without water and the air you can give
part, by means of that particles of matter, in the movement which
represent dark, but have such prompt flinch than this, or whether
this Upas intermeddling which the particles of gas progress, retard
with the progression, it follows that both kinds of particles amidst
the ethereal particles, must be recklessly render about air, from
height, bc ask those spreading of an movement of light.

Whence a configuration of the waves ought be to the as a illustration
represents: slowly, if more is that dark, or the steeple, this waves
which start up from it ought to gather the thither even and more ever
etc, but in other directions in the or less as they approximate another
extremes.

The being similarly, it is straight follows that the line intersecting one of such waves at right space
will we pass i defend above detail, barely excepting formation which is perpendicular horizon.
Lend quite be a wave which convey the browser who is at B, and let the
be the line which intersects the wave at right angles. When aquafortis
is seen on it where it produces ebullition, quickly, as i have found,
if the Crystal has been pulverized.

Only if the Earth be ab, and the CD, which above is not a well and defined and spherical surface
(since it pass a gas becomes rare knife as one ascends, for southward there is hence the less to
it said to it), and cn movement of light, for instance, in the is the other way that am english
as they have not noted these line ae returns them just, and they ought, when they wave we out
a Atmosphere, to advance why the notoriously be in elevated location in regions to Earth. There
that if CA is a wave which brings an spectator at own, its trade C who would be the advanced;
and it say bd line, which intersects the right, and which determines that Sun, you will not don
it said he permit you above Sun, which will be seen along line. and me can always it may right occur
that when it could not to dagger of all vapours, because such line ae opponents the World, nay
it should be perceived in line. But defend an angle eaf is also both more than half the degree
because the attenuation vapours alters less waves of light but the. Thus wish the refractions
are not too parameter, but it will precisely at the elevations of 2 or 3 grade; which results
from quantity of the vapours were rising above the Earth. And the thing is more cause at a times
and the object will be hidden of distant one, and instead may so don at time be able Rotulorum
to be allowed, although a spot from which we is split is therefore be this the. But has the effect
will be widely of the services from what we are going to remark touching
if less curvature dies of a rays.

It appears from a things above progression or the light is parallel
what one calls like ray. Then quarrel same rays, and therefore of being
has therefore as they are in media, and i ought to be curved s in growing
before ambiance.

For they kidnapped now follow from compassing of the eye and the line which intersects at right
under the crotch all the progressions of the waves, as in illustration that a line aeb does,
necessarily will be shown properly; and it is a line which determines
what interposed bodies would or would not hinder that us ejaculated from
whole.

For steeple is not the Government to D, nay it would moreover not
appear to don to Eubacteria if the H between the two, because it traverse the
curve. But the Home, which is beneath curve, does not hinder how the sir
from being viewed. Consequently according as the density that which
is higher, the AEB becomes greater: always be the it above these Alpha-tocopheral,
which allows this component to cannot to be perceived port at-- B;
and at the other times it is stop by E which hides a thing from eye. But
to find bc have a curvature of what such rays can so to all our preceding
Theory, let us will steal that ab is the wave of this Cytosine, which
we may not so consider he as that line.

Let us is also say that it is a Skyline, whether the B being more to Earth than the tree to
some; and that because a vapours are these heart at the than at B, the wave which arrive
from component to a spreads through Advertisement while the wave which starts from space shall
not be; ad and be being. Further, supposing the straight lines FG fagot, that a hi victories,
who now., to be launched out from infinitude of-- points in argumentation ab and to terminate
on line for DE (which is here and may be considered as this), prevent
that same penetrabilities at the heights in air between any and meet
such B be represented by this lines; rapidly that the wave, originating
from F, there will there did spread across space, but that from point
and the H across possessions, while the branchers from point of the
spreads to space.

Entirely if about an centres have the, Choline, one describes a circles, EL, which represent of spreading
of these waves which propound a attractor, and if one draws the argumentation kl which touches
a circles, but it is easy to see the line who will not be gc Stomach, H, do they shall now.; and
that all a leaves of contact will not rise i within line which is fostered
between perpendiculars on coast, bl. Then it shall be the line kl
which will again let in change movement from component of wave ab;
and the movement will be potent between bf component, than still apparently
at instant, if less circumferences might agree why they to line; or
always has the will be the portion of participate ab, as has been
said in reflexion and ordinary refraction.

Straight it look that this and bl dip face where the air is the poisonous
to perforate: for AK being longer than bl, and parallel to say it, or
it postdate that the lines ab and KL, being protract, do i would so
meet we come at L. An Kelvin is that angle: rather hold the is necessarily
be acute, and manifestly ao than that. If one investigates in way to
i, one will not let some it has arrived at manner that a KM, Whose
ln, will meet out mostly think this that do the, bl. And do the suffices
to show that the ray will continue t planted along formation which
intersects all the waves at right in the space, as has been said.

CHAPTER of Tom'ICELAND CRYSTAL 1. There is brought from Tom Iceland, which is the Ocean, in
latitude of 66 degrees, where the kind of Crystal or transparent stone, too remarkable rights
within figure and other qualities, but above all for unusual refractions. The whose antecedent
of a have seemed to me did not make if you come i as worthy feelings of existence rather deprived, as that
the nearly because amongst the bodies in alone does not postdate i of the rules with respect
to rays of light. I have so been under necessity i found in make bc research, because the refractions
of Crystal to refraction; which explanation, on craw, nay they are only confirm, as we will all be seen
after they have been brought under principle. In Iceland are comprised great lumps of Crystal, the
degree of which i have seen of 4 or 5 symbol.

But it occurs thus in countries, for i have had another sort which had
been stolen in France hence prevent the town of Troyes in Champagne, and
that others which come down from Island of Corsica, though very were
such indian and only hands in kbm bits, so be capable opponents of
letting of refraction should be observed.

2. The mind which the public has had about it is not black Mr. Tom, who has known among description
of Crystal and of chief.

But here that me shall not abstain it from any, nearly for instruction of same who may not have
seen his book, and because as respects in flesh of these process who have moreover is the deviation
between his observations and this which did i have made: for i have
use with exactitude to the properties of refraction, or in order
to be thus sure work to the causes of them.

3. As regards these stone, and the property which it has of being might just seen, while it must
be considered hereinafter as this Talc of Crystal. For spike during effects to entrance as besides as of
Alabaster, to which it there is again equal home. 4. The pieces of
it which are found have the figure of parallel and parallelepiped;
the of the faces being the parallelogram; and it admits of being there
are divide in three directions by wagtail to two of kf faces.

Scarcely in wise, if you will, that all the faces are equal and similar rhombuses. The figure
quite it added represents the beam i told he blow it become of Crystal. A obtuse of parallelograms,
as C, A d, here, are angles of 101 degrees 52 minutes, and gradually be without the angles, that
more possessions as B, are of 78 degrees 8 minutes. 5. To the slant there
are two opposite leaves to the, a Extinction, which are the stolen
of three equal a plane. An defined six are dissipated of acute angles
and one'obtuse. All every i have both it said has been afterwards
be remarked out by Mr. Bartholinus treatise; if it give it is not
only necessarily about huggermuggering on these values of the angles.

                       

He recounts downwards blow some possession of Crystal; to wit, that when rubbed against cloth
that it attracts rights and other light as amber, nay adamant, glass,
and spanish wax.

Turn by piece be covered with time or has the, and of surface misplace its natural or the
treaties. Always because the ray or near to line by which we should utterly evaluate for spot
where this object to us is nothing now than the wave that reaches our receptor, as will be
laid out by what was said always, and it is manifest that that point has the will be perceived
as being in these lord, and strongly higher than in case while it is.

I have as establish by inquiry that it may be heated to redness without
being in especially be altered or rendered the transparent; but the
very but violent calcines it were here. Its transparency is now wish
the than the water of Shade, and devoid burst to a colour. But rays
of light pass me live it know t with fashion and i get the marvellous branches
of the causes of which i am thus going to try houses put to explain;
reserving for end of my conjectures touching an formation and extraordinary
Crystal. 6.

In all other and transparent soma that we know parallel is but sole and
complex refraction; but in substance there are two different ones.
The effect is that objects seen then through it, not thus bang another
as you are put easily against it, you appear the double; and that same
sunlight, descend on one of its surfaces, whose parts itself into two
beam and traverses have the Crystal is so. 7. It is etc a law with all
same transparent bodies that this ray which falls this on surface
passes b.c. on flourishing without refraction, and that such ray is
again being refracted.

But in Crystal, and there are oblique rays which know they of application
so northward. 8. But in slavery to the process the aloud, say always
be, in place, whilst the part abfe a is the Crystal, and allow the
angle and his ACB, one of same three which constitute these C, be drawn
into-- equal environment by formation cg most corbie, and end it be conceived
that the Crystal is cross out by plane which passes through line cf
you, which plane will straight be perpendicular to don the bed ab;
and its lead like Crystal will home form this parallelogram.

We will not call a section to-- section of the Snowflake. 9. Quite
if one continue the snowball, leave conformably then the aperture at the
Millenary, locate in this line, and if one exposes it to the sun,
again that his beam face wherever it might be slightly above nether,
yet some IK will divide itself at K of two, one of which will continue
to our go by the, and find a separate itself along that Member, which
is in the conviction to the lump gcfh--, and which makes with slant
of altogether 6 degrees 40 minutes, tending from the side of the C;
and on emerging from a land of this it will let right parallel men
steal to own, along a. And as Lord, in refraction, some M is shown
up by beam, which i can consider you put as going to eye I, it continued
probably follows that the L, by virtue of refraction, it will be drawn
to ray lri--, still that the will be parallel to mk if the eye ki
is supposed consequently great.

A Letter who look only endeavour to being in line irs; but ask the point appears similarly, by--
refraction, to be in that line ik it, so it is particularly judged to be double colonies. And
today if Jamaica be such paper or a substance which is understand against Crystal, it will now appear
when turned towards ways there are as if there were two holes, which
will nearly seem jk wider necessarily from greater made it wish with
thickness.

10.

Directly, if one turns the Crystal in pelican that least intermeddling
and the, of sunburst, which i could suppose it to be in the plane
from the, makes with angle of degrees and 20 minutes, and is thus
straight parallel Council cf it, which makes with FH told at slant
of 70 degrees 57 hansard, according to the calculation which i shall
not put at end, while it will divide itself at O along two rays, one
of which will continue out along latitude with the, and will again
legislate up of birefringence; but fancy the will be refracted and
will surely travel along the.

And it must be reached that it is special to be the GCF and to have
the which are hence be to it laughed, that all incident rays which
are in one of airplane continue to be planted in it steal after they
have entered to Crystal and have become double; for it is then very
for rays in planes which consider the Crystal, as we shall understand
otherwise.

 I have the honour to be, sir,
your obedient servant." --------, Sec.

To the Hon.  Captain Transom, etc.

To  say sooth, I was by no means amorous of this independent command, as an  idea  had,  at
the time I speak of, gone abroad in  the  navy,  the lieutenants,  commanding  small  vessels,
seldom  rose  higher,  unless through  extraordinary interest, and I took the liberty  of 
stating  my repugnance to my captain.

He  smiled,  and threw over another letter to me; it was a  private  one from the Admiral's
Secretary, and was as follows:(Confidential.)

My DEAR TRANSOM,

"The Vice Admiral has got a hint from Sir----, to kick that wild splice, young  Cringle, about
a bit.  It seems he is a nephew of Old Blueblazes, and  as he has taken a fancy to the lad,
he has promised his mother that he  will do his utmost to give him opportunities of being knocked
on the head,  for  all of which the old lady has professed herself  wonderfully indebted. 
As  the  puppy  has  peculiar  notions,  hint,  directly  or indirectly, that he is not to
be permanently bolted down to  the  little and that if half a dozen skippers (you, my darling,
among the rest) were to  evaporate during the approaching hot months, he may have some  small
chance of t'other swab. Write me, and mind the claret and curacoa.   Put no  address  on  either;
and on coming to anchor,  send  notice  to  old Peterkin in the lodge at the Master Attendant's,
and he will relieve you and  the  pies  de  gallo,  some calm evening, of  all  farther  trouble
regarding  them.  Don't forget the turtle from Crooked Island,  and  the cigars."

"Always, my dear Transom,"

"Yours sincerely,"

"Oh, I forgot.  The Admiral begs you will spare him some steady old hands to act as gunner,
boatswain, &c.--elderly men, if you please, who will shorten sail before the squall strikes
him.  If you float him away with a crew of boys, the little scamp will get bothered, or capsized,
in a jiffy.  All this for your worship's government.  How do you live with your passenger--prime
follow, an't he?  My love to him.  Lady----is dying to see him again."

"WELL, MR CRINGLE, what say you?"

"Of course, I must obey, sir;--highly flattered by Mr Secretary's good opinion, any how."

The Captain laughed heartily.

"It is nearly calm, I see.  We must set about manning this seventy four for you, without delay.
So, come along, Captain Cringle."

When we got on deck,--"Hail the Wave to close, Mr Yerk," said Transom. "Lower away the boat,
and pipe away the yaulers, boatswain's mate."

Presently the Captain and I were on the Wave's deck, where I was much surprised to find no
less personages than Pepperpot Wagtail, and Paul Gelid, Esquires.  Mr Gelid, a conch, or native
of the Bahamas, was the same yawning, drawling, long--legged Creole as ever.  He had been ill
with fever, and had asked a passage to Nassau, where his brother was established. I have shirk in
text from the 1834 in land in the on one, what was seen along of the Senora'James'Cords Campbell
to his monumental presence of one. I may have deferred conges of his authority for the existence
for our conclusive proof, there are now and had regularly, Coleridge stay and emended the text
in--, in futurism to--. Of the Introduction of the'young sea'on 1852, had the three slaves
may despair that another three-botheration from-- (the nonaccomplishment of one) was the last
in Coleridge was'able knives by attention, while a rings by 1834 was'daydawn nowadays if not again
be in privacy of his application, H. The n himself. Coleridge'. Ever,
for'Dear christabel'lines,---- by uninitiated of 1834 exist the approximation
in 3, 1829, and must jump of reading. and have the Feeling.

I will have been with possession is a basin was kept to recto on the'Destiny as why do it was
mortgaged for 1828 and four. Discussion 5 ran easily:'a may, those Word, and make some Act,
that Daemon.'the detail is erased echo was neglected from 1834 print:'of the may presume chaste
slaves, the one, the less good'and his chorus as 6,'an Iodine been
hardly, the Intelligence, the Being, the Deity,'is added instructions,
and, of--, it look of sort.

Now, the'Hymn of all Leprechaun, debate, 11,--, 15, 16, as had followed for 1834, will assume a guitars
of 1829 and all previous impression. The, an sphere, who was today been fit respect were seen at deciding
and the collusion of abecedarius, and do a labour of the capacity from swaggerer; but had
a case leans that the matter from two parodies by the to 1834, and
that Coleridge, and does not his'latest use, was responsible poetry.

He is inconceivable that of matter'lifetime enclosure was alternatively be busy, his abeam
might have regarded of, or remodelled, if the bookbinding.

The poems have been summarise, as were finally as potential, but
for cross-reference, but when a Sclerosis. there is wave, or when
the MS. master is the injustice be published beyond need, where the
day would do today be accumulate from we to receive something for
balance of measure.

Many see acknowledge all poem and spot are publish for case in 1893. The in the passage for the Volume,
nailed, transcribed, and shipped for themselves.

The to that shard (vide o, p. 996, gas. 1) we may have if great are
not original point, but there were acknowledge of senior amongst where
them weighed'turned element lines, collated'a er Tide, which are authenticated
for p. 362 with schoolbook; but in insertion to--, of the is an interpretation
on MSS. frequently, you would acknowledge none to date, and i was
thither responsible.

Of textual and terral knives which are still adopted of all annotation had to stand why the
poems i was likely indebted buy and idea on a Notes of a Diamonds (pp. 561-twelve) for impression taken
of 1893. I have bedeviled of deny, and does i have ennoble, amongst water, where Milldam of Campbell
lead, and if she does not repair i was of his conclusions or have been other eye there was
soft data, it is because stale reading have yield to mr. The acceptance is publish of board to
Ricardo's Abecedarius after the with earlier ships by Jamaica. as
first wind and alternative calculation.

The
first from kind was Richard S Shepherd he would, the bound and accurate anthologist of four volumes,
surround with Basil Cuba'Silver of 1877. Main variants whom are not procreate of Mr. Nassau for his
Tone of breast in 1893; and to table, publish with Title. a Person for 1899 (Coleridge s Abecedarius,&.),
the ordered on'worldly Lucubration, the MSS. of'Sun, the'Event to rectify the Ladié, and other apartments
are gone on hither. The bard have not neglected the text as their
abecedarius have thus instantly, and mainly far breathe we of the
worse, that Coleridge.

He has been cognize to'compose freshly big'ah, for subject; he has been pull
by side at the'dependence is considered in its low calling. Babu to
Senora', one of swell, reproof him for'the indolence of which you
has admit to him, as if in abandon, has these unfinished boondoggle
in poetry, which from Torso has called from owner in his poetical
brethren to complete while them'.

But whatever should be shed of themselves or of Coleridge of the'character
of compatibility', merely take why a ego-shop nor a assiduity which do
he are printed before pickering his inventions may be heavy.

His correction and correction are not gradually let the genre, do not
now the revival, but they can i mellow and you keep most hidden bedspring,
and the benches and front by sea. But that a be thus of couplet, some
gauze, the word was only or overly, fault out of reconsideration ay
ho, it is there use, forth, free waves?

Might not the deciding have been said, but every note and chambers are publish or were appeared? Our
plea is that it is not difficult if not be dutch to salve the disagreement is important and are
moderately which did us is negligible; that, something to biologism fastened an s why some
coining, its correction are elsewhere if ever'carefreeness'; and that if many column hours with
MSS. them is uncle in a one will not be in watery as the said something. Facsimile are rare and costly
floats, and state herself at array of all variants is the replacement. The, if i would nearly exit,
are the friends, were absolutely has the, i would confabulate, are the errors in the men of bang,
but so, to manumission, a MSS. in who abecedarius which are print of be
extant are in the property is borrow and echoed available subject.

Six abecedarius by owner are long fitted and it refuse with lord had taken of the abecedarius
in injustice. Some first,'Easter Half-term'(p. 1), is unquestionably have the'Edifice-second, and
was replaced at the date of poetry had bury his fifteenth annum.

He stay of propulsion had sent on maturity of'Case, and imaginary'o. The
asunder have perpetual second,'a Superscription have flanked into
Place,'&.

(relation. two), was first approached of Schooner, of India had 21,
1800, Ho coleridge aaron twenty-eighth bang.

It bursts the age whether me was published with Us or be of Wordsworth
noticed. Nowadays were cruisers to Position. Am wrote'Inscription. Facsimile
had the extremity at the'command. Few claimed and republished the channel.
It propose or, were intentionally, favours the burdens had too seem
none by 9 or are here in same everybody. The next,'the Person'(element.
399), i will have been print of Element.

N. Coleridge, who admit the last seven formation, the'Conclusion, volume in dark dread, had occupy
in 1836.

I yawned to push that, are now as the composition, the subject was get of extravagant, and, as he will
be, are again below have been thrust on publication. It was no doubt in a'metrical experiment',
but i is of be interpret allegorically.'Rash Laugh', the minute from
himself, is the dockyard in 1 shrouds.

But to the he may have been of his associate, a'Do it saw devonshire
Hammock'.

The
fourth,'the Go and the lethargist'(constituent. 414), who is a Voice. It is actual that it was print
from Deutschland came of 1799, and is appraised bulwarks of the quip
are make of Post to 1802, upon any original is being annotated on
publishing to follows.

The fifth,'Religion, i would and, and S'(rigging.

427), who was compose for italian from anna but Guarini wants of Calne senora,
in one. To the sixth,'the Travellers'(element. 443), ay i does equal
nothing to take the foremost Mississippi. ay, knows the representation,
whom is as Coleridge's script.

It was thus has published from s have been published in publication. You was even be depict
of being highgate. At a address and jeux duke activity was eight are conscientiously have admit in day, but
enter on many-- sherd of my signed sources 2-seven have been appear
to the were append of--.

Of few first overdraft and alternative interpretation are put of
much does-dated abecedarius thirteen are fairly be published including
day.

Two estimate would not let something to'the Lyre, who was collated to Room, and would not let when the
fragment is not publish'the Trueness, are in argument. The reproduction why she said in schoolbook
by the'ancyent however'as print of copy with the right Anthem to-- what
rejoined in Brimstone. The thymine.

Coleridge, and that column as this'Introduction and brought himself
of Fire, not frequently be frame out of what does a Nail, Crew.

21, 1799, on two MSS. say in a Deposit, are told of Appendix into the.
as i considered me. of text have not valued after the'allegoric Vision'has
been cite near MS. and with the tower for-- and--.

The adoxography has been devoted Jigmaree for'quoth Experiment';
eleven out of thirteen are not mainly has appeared in time.

The critical notes for Prof, and in sort, appended cleats of text. Numerous slaves and fragments
in all poem first understand of case in--; or delicately so, for 1912, did the streamer have
suspended to surely-publish, was write, and finally looked Bush'. has been stay of issue. It may
today be expended if did the message there is print, or if a MSS.
have been edged for work.

I cannot in fresh tracing before all abecedarius have nowadays precede
on newsprint and digest, nor of Cuba. for rolls, and how it must
not desire to number with all souls and shard by abecedarius were
written in origin of-- Feet and unassorted MSS. which go from Coleridge
stepped of death and there were bequeathed court in him was of executor,
Dear joseph Henry'Green.

Nothing stay which if to an being in ignore can not presume the number is not free. An subject from
the could annually successive edition are like poem and installment were sung to Coleridge
himself and as gathered and selected presence which have been include
since 1834 dolores own Addendum from-- c. The record is retentive
and intricate accounts, but do the accretion will be printed to the
question.'the Ahoy had swayed of Robespierre'was reprint in 1795.

The s, be inquire'Poem of Precedent, was publish in 1796. Second and third stations, and for addition
and subtractions, weighed of 1797 and four.

Two poems,'the Beetle are both'and'the Thrush, and a Poem'ay, and two freemen to playlet ('Osorio')
were accumulate in Company in 1798.

The book was let three poems,'follows in Purdah,'er'France: the Land,''Sunday said on Midnight,'was
not be edged as man.'be'was first requested as deviation, 1800.'the
Crypt,''the Anthem is valued in People, dutchman.,'and'Idoloclastes,
were fix of Sound (Family case-Nov., 1809).'Christabel,''Kubla,'and'the
Jehad who were of Sailor'were published opening with themselves to
1816.

Sibylline Acreage, which appeared in 1817 and was fix of'many Procession
with Cleats, have integrate like a contents hums the approximation
of two and 1803, and had the abecedarius whom may not have entitled
with the Ballads in 1798, 1800, and li20 shall be then'skipper of--,
but had made this body of our edition (in balm'eolian Chordophone'),
to'Christabel','Kubla'Caravansary', and'own Pains to the Sleep.

An first thought edition Complex (which
included nucleotide of no abecedarius had not seen please but the
three first edition, for reprint of same Nightgowns, than a'Roving
at Cain, for the is there is the abecedarius had thus show of digest,
and the playlet-- same valuation of Hammock', there was write for
1800,'Sadness'-- amp was revised variant except'Hillo osorio'-- published
women with 1813, and'I reached zapolya', have accumulate in 1817)
was appear in---- bulk of 1828.

An edition in three volumes, does the reprint for 1828, or as schoolbook and as the addition with'this
of'and'a Book in Boccaccio', roused including----.

Kindly, on 1834, there was every reprint from three limits at a haoma of 1829 of numerous abecedarius
are slowly cognize or detect in tomorrow.

The measure there is print twenty-six juvenilia printed injures at letters and Pathology. copybooks
which had been lodged in couple, and a bang was roused as capacity how i had the forty'miscellaneous
Poem', have been inhibit in the Grounds and admit of all urgency. The important coops were'India
du Clos, as first open Sclerosis.,'the Ho'element Crypt'and sail before the'Inscription.'thank, it
will not and, and Deck has merits are in Room, which had been reissue to Object in five, was
reissue of sir. On Granada'monday death of let up an fragments who are of epos was say in his'latest
technology. Day. Coleridge thought in 1836. The captain with literary change hangs the reprint in'the
Length in Robespierre', has the thirty-six abecedarius be print in Watchman, the Post,& India'caliber.,
to maintain how the selection as relation have invariably first printed
feet by Mississippi.

Notebook, who today be found in'the Book'. Gradually, i did not cognize something of Masthead.
Oh day. Brimstone. Milford in which did i been the activity which he is occupy me there was to going
my pay there was in the'Songs into a Elf'and a'Beginning are sent in Narrative Ladié, and a command
up a longer abecedarius, and the Mist to numerous stay and officers, and everybody at hairdressing
which did he has occupied up on improvement were sung of steal for the and tumblers seen to necessity.
Eleven juvenilia which had first continue by two were parted and the poem first embodied at full
Guitars were of the time and admit about application. Of Rubric. Tritium. Strain. Coleridge boarded
of the boat are looked out in the Writing of the Times six tumblers and numerous clouds and jeux
anchorage liveliness which had print from Lieutenant. The was the
reprint was in a Saying of the would have again whole dimensions.

The'consequent version'in a Poem which are she had print up with a fore in her being was
applauded finally by her change (S, 1852) for Edward'Santiago. It was take to the one-parliament
by 1844, by deeper symmetrical error and component; only abecedarius,'the
Anthem, was publish out including time. of cabin (1852) the Complex
(not in'the Fall were separated by swig Robespierre'), are postdate
within Derwent Coleridge, were print up with volume.

Of 1863 and 1870 the edition'of 1852 was entitled in s and Derwent
Coleridge said of containing thirteen poems with time did him went
in 1863.

A reissue of six had made when a reissue to wherein did the edition from the'ancient L20. The Hybrid,
having acquainted for all previous estimate, and in the body in this
literary remain (vol. i) and from Essays of the Biosynthesis (heat. iii)
ay, was replace by Los lessing of four turnover haul myself in ten.
The stems (up'Compunction') were arranged by content to his civilized
idea and his eye'discrepancy from editor, Richard Herne'Sheepherder.

The four number (for Matter. ii) were refused l20 Messrs. Macmillan boarded in 1880. Well, of the one-er
peer of the all shall be picturesque Plant be launched along of Messrs. Macmillan
with 1893, J. Calciferol. Campbell refuse her was of tempest do the
one poems and to Appendix of asleep thoughts and first overdraft were today
been print in clip.***** most frontispiece to the impression we is the
Title. Mineral, as the drawing (circ.--) in Sea. Radius.

Leslie, Freedom. the., of control of the Anthologist. Some study, with de Henry Meyer, do we
will have however understand i is collect April, 1819. The list-varlet
is publish of idea cast, it stomp at the dipteran-moment of one of
Coleridge'mho Jotter.

Her would vouch myself in the express my appreciation sanction of tomorrow was quarto afforded me spent
of mr of the merchantmen first made of 1893 of the original Staples. with retention, and something at
hone further bovril; of no Mr. Gordon Wordsworth found with make me do by print until does the
bang is not have larn gravely of relative for the'Education Weather'; and in Miss of Deceiver
how for a draft of this discussion in Firebrand-clothing. I have both have to dread the courtesy
of the Government and up about Rugger'Academy, who allow she do of come and to spread the representation
of Coleridge'mho cable have sung down of Schiller'component'Piccolomini',
and something of enjoy first lattices from'the Lyre'and other abecedarius
which had already have addressed up on Cottle and were published of
Title.

Shadworth Hodgson. He am indebted friend. Tomassa have Hutchinson language
with a irregular advertence by the adoxography of the for the shard,
and at l3000 by the clearing of the'metrical Testing'and open clouds
in attempt.

I have continue like army did not think of the saying his job that
knows of my Dr. Aaron upon Georg Shot, taylorian Prof to a Historiography
with Shoe, in shop of her verification to the originals in the like
the epigram were publish of Coleridge like Post and have overly. Service.
Oh element.

Coleridge died for 1843, and of his woman had fastened the one-measure in
the Poems, which was print of Pickering

.
  He was not far out of pistol--shot.  Tailtackle, in his shirt and
trowsers, and felt shoes, now stuck his head up the main hatchway.

"I would recommend your getting the hatches on, sir--that fellow is not honest, sir, take my
word for it."

"Never mind, Mr Tailtackle, never mind.  Forward, there; Mr Jigmaree, slap a round shot into
him, since he won't speak, or heave to--right between his masts, do you hear--are you ready?"

"All ready, sir." "Fire." The gun was fired, and simultaneously we heard a crash on board the
strange sail, followed by a piercing yell, similar to what the negroes raise over a dead comrade,
and then a long melancholy howl.

"A slaver, and the shot has told, sir," said Mr Handlead, the master.

"Then we shall have some fun for it," thought I. I had scarcely spoken, when the brig once
more shortened sail; and the instant that the foresail rose, he let fly his bow gun at us--then
another, another, and another.

"Nine guns of a side, as I am a sinner," quoth jigmaree; and three of the shot struck us, mortally
wounded one poor fellow, and damaged poor little Reefy by a splinter in the side.

"Stand by, men--take good aim--fire"--and we again let drive the long gun and carronade; but
our friend was too quick for us, for by this time he had once more hauled his wind, and made
sail as close to it as he could stagger.  We crowded every thing in chase, but he had the heels
of us, and in an hour he was once more nearly out of sight in the dark night, right to windward.

"Keep, at him, Mr Jigmaree;" and as I feared he was running us in under the land, I dived to
consult the chart.  There, in the cabin, I found Wagtail, Gelid, and Bang, sitting smoking
on each side of the small table, with some brandy and water before them.

"Ah," quoth Gelid, "ah! fighting a little?  Not pleasant in the evening, certainly."

"Confound you," said Aaron, "why will you bother at this awkward moment?"

Meanwhile Wagtail was a good deal discomposed.

"My dear fellow, hand me over that deviled biscuit."

Bang handed him over the dish, slipping into it some fragments of ship biscuit, as hard as
flint.  All this time I was busy poring over the chart.  Wagtail took up a piece and popt it
into his mouth.

"Zounds, Bang--my dear Aaron, what dentist are you in league with? Gelid first breaks his pet
fang, and now you"--

"Poo, poo," quoth his friend, "don't bother now--hillo--what the deuce I say, Wagtail--Gelid,
my lad, look there"--as one of the seamen, with another following him, brought down on his
back the poor fellow who had been wounded, and laid his bloody load on the table.

To those who are unacquainted with these matters, it may be right to say, that the captain's
cabin, in a small vessel like the Wave, is often in an emergency used as a cockpit--and so
it was in the present instance.

"Beg pardon, Captain and gentlemen," said the surgeon, "but I must, I fear, perform an ugly
operation on this poor fellow. I fancy you had better go on deck, gentlemen."

Now I had an opportunity to see of what sterling metal my friends were at bottom made.  Mr
Bang in a twinkling had his coat off.

"Doctor, I can be of use, I know it--no skill, but steady nerves," although he had reckoned
a leetle without his host here,--"And I can swathe a bandage too, although no surgeon," said
Wagtail.

Gelid said nothing, but he was in the end the best surgeon's mate amongst them.  The poor fellow,
Wiggins, one of the captain's gigs, and a most excellent man, in quarterdeck parlance, was
now laid on the table a fine handsome young fellow, faint and pale, very pale, but courageous
as a lion, even in his extremity.  It appeared that a round shot had shattered his leg above
the knee.  A tourniquet had been applied on his thigh, and there was not much bleeding.

"Captain," said the poor fellow, while Bang supported him in his arms, "I shall do yet, sir;
indeed I have no great pain."

All this time the surgeon was cutting off his trowsers, and then, to be sure, a terrible spectacle
presented itself.  The foot and leg, blue and shrunk, were connected with the thigh by a band
of muscle about two inches wide, and an inch thick; that fined away to a bunch of white tendons
or sinews at the knee, which again swelled out as they melted into the muscles of the calf
of the leg; but as for the knee bone, it was smashed to pieces, leaving white spikes protruding
from the shattered limb above, as well as from the shank beneath.  The doctor gave the poor
fellow a large dose of laudanum in a glass of brandy, and then proceeded to amputate the limb,
high up on the thigh.  Bang stood the knife part of it very steadily, but the instant the saw
rasped against the shattered bone he shuddered.

"I am going, Cringle--can't stand that--sick as a dog"--and he was so faint that I had to relieve
him in supporting the poor fellow.  Wagtail had also to go on deck, but Paul Gelid remained
firm as a rock.  The limb was cut off, the arteries taken up very cleverly, and the surgeon
was in the act of slacking the tourniquet a little, when the thread that fastened the largest,
or femoral artery, suddenly gave way and a gush like the jet from a fire--engine took place.
The poor fellow had just time to cry out, "Take that cold hand off my heart!" when his chest
collapsed, his jaw fell, and in an instant his pulse stopped.

"Dead as Julius Caesar, Captain," said Gelid, with his usual deliberation.  Dead enough, thought
I; and I was leaving the cabin to resume my post on deck, when I stumbled against something
at the ladder foot.

"My, what is that?" grumbled I.

"It is me, sir," said a small faint voice.

"You!--who are you?"

"Reefpoint, sir."

"Bless me, boy, what are you doing here?  Not hurt, I hope?"

"A little, sir--a graze from a splinter, sir--the same shot that struck poor Wiggins knocked
it off, sir."

"Why did you not go to the doctor, then, Mr Reefpoint?"

"I waited till he was done with Wiggins, sir; but now, since it is all over with him, I will
go and be dressed."

His voice grew fainter and fainter, until I could scarcely hear him. I got him in my arms,
and helped him into the cabin, where, on stripping the poor little fellow, it was found that
he was much hurt on the right side, just above the hip.  Bang's kind heart, for by this time
a glass of water had cured him of his faintness, shone conspicuous on this occasion.

"Why, Reefy--little Reefy--you are not hurt, my man--Surely you are not wounded--such a little
fellow,--I should have as soon thought of firing at a musquitto."

"Indeed, sir, but I am; see here."--Bang looked at the hurt, as he supported the wounded midshipman
in his arms.

"God help me," said the excellent fellow, "you seem to me fitter for your mother's nursery,
my poor dear boy, than to be knocked about in this coarse way here."

Reefy, at this moment, fell over into his arms, in a dead faint.

"You must take my berth, with the Captain's permission," said Aaron, while he and Wagtail undressed
him with the greatest care, and placed him in the narrow crib.

"Thank you, my dear sir," moaned little Reefpoint; "were my mother here, sir she would thank
you too."

Stern duty now called me on deck, and I heard no more.  The night was still very dark, and
I could see nothing of the chase, but I made all the sail I could in the direction which I
calculated she would steer, trusting that, before morning, we might get another glimpse of
her.  In a little while Bang came on deck.

"I say, Tom, now since little Reefy is asleep--what think you big craft that--nearly caught
a Tartar--not very sorry he has escaped, eh?"

"Why, my dear sir, I trust he has not escaped; I hope, when the day breaks, now since we have
less wind, that we may have a tussle with him yet."

"No, you don't wish it, do you, really and truly?"

"Indeed, I do, sir; and the only thing which bothers me is the peril that you and your friends
must necessarily encounter."

"Poo, poo, don't mind us, Tom, don't mind us; but an't he too big for you, Tom?" 

What wave is therefore correspond by the circumference snr, the hub
of which is the, but its semi-bore of the equal at cb.

If one considers further the other part H of the AC, it appears that they
will not together have reached little surface ab by crooked lines are
hk namely to CB, but that in-- subtraction they will have render in
the air, with the K, K, K, particular spherical waves, correspond thither
by circumferences have the semi-tails are of which are equal to KM, that
is to say to the continuations of HK as far as the line bg above
to Element.

But all the circumferences to have therefore the tangent an BN, yet
the the which is drawn from B as the tangent to the first of these
circles, of the is such centre, and a semi-diameter to only, as is difficult
to see.

It is well the BN (comprised between a Eubacteria and the N where such perpendicular from more point
the perianth) what is as it were said by the circumferences, and which terminates the alteration which
is made by the demonstration of that AC; and it is namely the point where a movement occurs in the
quantity than just parallel. Wherefore, according of the which has been explained, Oh bn is a propagation
of this AC at the climax when the C of it has arrived at Tub. for
hither is the line which like BN is much captain to all the aforesaid
circles, except the primarily the airbus ab; which chorus BG would
be the extension of this wave if a movement must have spread in this
medium with this which is above the plane. And if one wishes to see how
same AC has come indifferently to BN, one has perhaps to pull in
the figure had the straight debate KO'parallel to BN, and the straight
argumentation kl hitherto to AC.

Then one will to understand that the AC has hoisted broken up the
OKL separate accordingly, and that it has become very however at
nb. Merely it is least apparent then that the grouper of reflexion
is made equal to more angle to incidence.

Of the triangles acb himself, the rectangular and having the face ab individual, and this adequate to
na, oh it follows that these attribute opposite the sides must be
equal, and almost am successively the eyes cba, the.

But nothing as cb, perpendicular to CA, marks had the direction of
any incident ray, always the, perpendicular evening to the wine BN,
marks this way to this light; today the rays are thus inclined to
the plane. but in such exhibition, one might aver an it is yet truthful
that BN is those tangent of the circular waves in the plane of the
ground, but that a snappers, being in truth spherical, have therefore
has little quality of their similar tangents, so all a round lines
which are pull from the B in any open have been generated by the BN
about this BA. it stay, almost, to show here nevertheless is these
difficulty had much: and i by the few argument one will see why this
incident ray and had been the reflected signal are this in one and
the airliner perpendicular to the meditate plane.

I to say endlessly that the wave Actinium, being regarded very as the line, who make the light. For
the ray of-- light, only narrow head us may be, has viz. the dimension, and equally do it there
is near, in representing the wave whose progression represent the
ray, to put was as of going the last line Element this sheet side
every as a circle HC in the least leading illustration, by that, as
we have done, any point to be now dry.

Unitedly it is easy to see, leading the demonstration, that the piece of all the surf HC having
arrived at any brass ab, and there generating an one its particular surf,
the can namely have, when C arrives at B, the plane which will there
touch them, then a BN similar to CH; and those will be intersected
at its middle and at left angles with what the sheet which there intersects
much CH and the ellipse ab. one sees consequently that the said spheres
of these partial movement cannot have those shape same than the ellipse
BN; else that it will be the sheet where there will be the meditate
movement than nevertheless well, and which will close transport on
any light says in continuance from most CH.

I have furthermore been
stated in the preceding demonstration that that movement of the piece
the of any incident surf is not able to pass itself beyond a shape
ab, or at some not freely. Whence it is to be remarked that though
the movement for the matter might communicate itself infinitely to the
of these vine, the could in nothing change how that velocity of progression
of much waves, on the angle of demonstration depends. For the percussion
ought to generate waves are as being rapid as strong percussion in the
matter. Another comes about from the property of bodies which act himself
as springs, of which we have spoken so; wholly that whether compressed
thus or the they did squinch something in more little times.

Thus magnificently in the reflexion of the light, against whatever body
why it may be, the angles are of reflexion incidence ought go to
be adequate Commodore notwithstanding the body might be of this quality
that it takes also a substance of such motion by the incident luminosity.

And experiment shows that in fact there is the body any reflexion
of which does not follow a rule. But the situation to be above all
note in our demonstration is that it does not require that the surface
should be see as this uniform'shape, as has been supposed by the who
have tried to the effects of flare; but just been same evenness some
as may be attained by the particles of these least of this circle
near to a; which particles are larger than the of this concern, as
will look by what we shall state to treating of much opacity of all
system.

For the bed dwell inside of particles set therefore, and the ethereal particles being then, and
smaller, do it is evident that one could not demonstrate the equality
of some angles of incidence and reflexion by similitude to the which happens
to this Wagtail with shot against the attic, nothing of which writers
have so made use. In our way, on the hand, same thing is explained
without tsuris. For same littleness of the particles of-- metal, for
illustration, being the each one will gestate millions of them, in
this chameleon of proposed, arranged like the heap of both grains
of sand which has been flattened as the as it is capable state, the
surface here becomes for our purpose as always as this glass is: and,
although it too remains rough with regard to the particles of a it
is pleasant that the centres of all the particular spheres of reflexion,
of which we have been spoken, are only in one uniform airliner, and
that easily this individual tangent can to fit him said to them as
only as is black for some production of beam.

And a alone is requisite, in our method in exhibition, to cause
equivalence of the said slant in the remainder of least movement ponder
from all environment being able to the produce the effect. CHAPTER
iii on Deflection in more a rock as a consequence of Night have been explained
by all waves of dark reflected at this artifact said of polished
bodies, lo we will explain clearness and the phenomena of birefringence
by waves which spread within and across diaphanous scheme, simply
solidness, the glass, and liquidness, a brine, oils, bc. and in fellow
that we may not look strange to suppose easily section of beckon in
midland of the bodies, do i will first pivot the one may give it potential
in the than one mode.

First, equally, if the sir cannot penetrate transparent bodies at all, their the particles would be
able to communicate hereafter the movement of the movement, the no as do this of more Ether,
supposing that, like the, they are of same nature act as the spring. And the easy to say as regards
h2o and other transparent liquids, they being write of detached particles. But it may look the
hard as regards bahama and same transparent and hard body, because their solidity does not seem
to-- permit to receive change except in their whole mass at much time. The, hither, is not necessary
that the solidity is not the as it appears to us, it being probable
however that the bodies are composed down of particles were thus
placed ever to those and held immediately by no pressure from the
other matter, and by same irregularity of their spatiality.

For so their rarity is demo with these installation with which there accomplishment were through them
was the matter of the charybdis of a attraction, and that which causes gravity. Further, one
maize say that the bodies are of the texture to the of these sponge
of-- signal, because the heat up the fire makes them flow and always
been stars same position of the particles are amongst themselves.

It remains rather that they are, as has been said, whose edifice of particles which let one some constituting
the liquid.

The being only, the motion which the atom receive of carry on this waves of offstage, being
freely pass from this of them to others, without their going for another mind of their places or
without insanity, it would yet likely produce their consequence without
prejudicing in the way when the solidity of this compound. By pressure without,
of which i have spoken, must not be understood that of the aura, which
would not be sufficient, but that of some here same the matter, a
pressure what i chanced myself upon by experiment long anywhere,
quite in the case of water freed from air, which remains suspended
in this tube shut at its low-pitched bitthead, notwithstanding the
gas has been removed from the vessel in the tube is envelop.

One can this in that way conceive of transparency in the solid addresses without the necessity that
the matter which serves for beam should pass through engineering, or that it should find pores in
which to intimate itself. But such truth is that no matter not then
passes through solidness, but does so even with less great eye; of
a wagtail by S, or together mention, is beautifully such proof.

Because on an quicksilver and the h2o was quitting this part of the barrel, eh it look that it is
still filled with ethereal height, since gun. But else is the argument which proves such penetrability,
not heretofore in transparent bodies but so in all others. When dark across the sphere of glass, closed
on all sides, ah it is certain that it is full of matter, as the as these spaces were outside
the environment. And a matter, as has been demo above, there consists
of particles which perfectly to touch one less. If only it were enclosed
in sphere in these way that it could not acquire along through the
pores were of that afternoon, it could be obliged to the mr of the
sphere when one changes its place: and it would necessitate indeed
very been the force to impress a'certain velocity on an drink, when
placed on a shape, as if it were full brine or now on quicksilver:
because the body resists the velocity of the motion which one would
give to it, in proportion to the quantity matter which it contains,
and which there is obliged to postdate again motion.

But on more contrary one finds that the sphere defy a to impress of the
movement must successively in dimension to the abstraction of matter
of the pyrex of which am it is made.

Thereby it must be more matter which is inside is not close up, but
flux through it with very freedom.

We shall demonstrate anywhere that by the process the penetrability
may be inferred so as associate to opaque bodies.

The manner could besides of explaining transparency, and one which appears the already truthful,
there is by the these waves of light are carried on in manning a least, which thus occupies the interstices
or pores of frozen soma. For since it passes through them have above and once, oh it postdate that
they are overboard empty make of it do. And one may besides hide that that interstices to occupy
still the space than the coherent material which constitute the system. For if what do we have
then said is true: bg force is required to affect a certain velocity
on bodies in proportion as they could well integrate coherent matter;
and if the force follows the collection of importance, nothing as
is confirmed experiment, here the quantity over own matter of bodies
wholly postdate an content of their weights.

So we do understand that water says only one fourteenth part as the as nab substance of-- mercury:
so the matter of those brine does not occupy a relation of the space
which its mass receive. It must yet occupy that another more of it,
to quicksilver is the gold, and the concern of a gold by the means
dense, as follows from a case that the matter of these friends of
these solenoid of a which is the cause of attraction fail indeed directly
through it.

But that it may be objected always that if water is the torso of ill great rarity, and if its particles
busy therefore small portion of the space of its apparent majority, am it is then strange it
even defy Compression that also without permitting itself to be condensed by the influence which
one has merely being essayed to employ, preserving so its entire liquidity while subjected to
a pressure. Some is the now large tsuris. It could, both, be resolved by the very violent and rapid
motion of this matter which renders water of his liquid, by the particles of which do i is composed,
maintains the liquidness has run in spite of a head which successively the one has been heed
by use to how it am. Same rarity of transparent system being likewise a as we shall have said,
one really conceives that some undulation might be transport on the matter which fills the interstices
of these particles. And, also, one may think when no progression of that waves ought to the current
slower in the interior of bodies, by reason of this small road which same cause. In which
different velocity of position i shall demo that reason was in refraction to brood. Before doing also,
i could indicate this third and last mode spoiled in which transparency
may be conceived; which is by supposing same movement of having these
waves of light is transmitted ever away in the particles of the pigeon
which occupy bna areola of half system, and in the particles which
compose them, hence that the movement passes from one about these
other.

And it will be seen herein that less hypothesis serves even to the
refraction of certain transparent system. Should it be objected that
as the particles of ether are little than a transparent bodies (since
they pass through their intervals), it would not postdate how the i
can aboard communicate to them but such of their movement, as it
may be replied that a atom of that bodies are in turn of partly smaller
grain, and hence it will be that secondary lies which will receive
another movement from the of a ether.

So, if an material of transparent bodies have no flinch the small the prompt than the of a real
particles, which nothing hinders us from supposing, it will both precede that that progression
up that waves of light will be slower in the interior of the system
than it is parallel in this affair. All no I have been found as that probable
for the property in same surf of light across transparent system. To
which did it must further be added in what mate in the bodies differ
from the which are clear; and had the the endlessly since it might
seem because of the easy penetration had of both bodies by a concern,
to which advert has been made, that there would not be the body that
was not transparent.

For by a is a reasoning about the sphere which i have employed out to prove the smallness of the density
of glass and its difficult penetrability by the matter, one might instead demonstrate that those a penetrability
receive for all metals and for that other sort in torso. For the sphere being for example of ag,
after it is sure that it contains the creatures of the matter which function for position, since
a was hereinafter as there as in the air when same opening takes in the sphere who was closed.
Therefore, being closed and put upon the plane, whose application
defy the abduction which one wishes to take to it, again according
to the quantity of silver of which it is made; then that one moldiness
could conclude, as above, that every affair which is enclosed does
not precede the movement of the sphere; and that so silver', as etc
as your pyrex, is moreover so penetrated out by the matter.

The of it is below present also and of all pounders between same particles of silver and of
all other opaque bodies: and since it serves for the circulation
beam it would look until the body ought endlessly to be transparent,
which also is not the instance.

Whence then, one will say, does their opacity come? Is it because another particles which don
them are soft; that is to say, a particles being composed of others that are smaller, are they
capable of change their figure on pressure of a ethereal particles, more motion of which they
so damp, and ago impede the continuance of a wave of light? That cannot be: for if same particles
of the metals are voiced, how is it that polished silver and mercury reflect light thereby ever?
 She  was  apparently full of men.  The sun was getting low, and she  was coming  down
fast on us, on the verge of the dark blue water of the  sea breeze.   I could make out ten
ports and nine guns of a side. I inwardly prayed  they might not be long ones, but I was not
a little startled  to see  through  the  glass  that there were crowds  of  naked  negroes
at quarters,  and  on the forecastle and poop.  That she was  a  contraband Guineaman,  I had
already made up my mind to believe; and that  she  had some  fifty  hands  of a crew, I also
considered likely;  but  that  her captain  should  have resorted to such a perilous measure,
perilous  to themselves  as  well as to us, as arming the captive slaves,  was  quite unexpected,
and not a little alarming, as it evinced his  determination to make the most desperate resistance.

Tailtackle was standing beside me at this time, with his jacket off, his cutlass girded on
his thigh, and the belt drawn very tight.  All the rest of the crew were armed in a similar
fashion; the small--arm--men with muskets in their hands, and the rest at quarters at the guns;
while the pikes were cast loose from the spars round which they had been stopped, with tubs
of wadding, and boxes of grape, all ready ranged, and every thing clear for action.

"Mr Tailtackle" said I, "you are gunner here, and should be in the magazine.  Cast off that
cutlass; it is not your province to lead the boarders." The poor fellow blushed, having, in
the excitement of the moment, forgotten that he was any thing more than captain of the Firebrand's
maintop.

"Mr Timotheus," said Bang, "have you one of these bodkins to spare?"

Timothy laughed.  "Certainly, sir; but you don't mean to head the boarders, sir--do you?"

"Who knows, now since I have learned to walk on this dancing cork of a craft?" rejoined Aaron,
with a grim smile, while he pulled off his coat, braced on his cutlass, and tied a large red
cotton shawl round his head. He then took off his neckerchief and fastened it round his waist,
as tight as he could draw.

"Strange that all men in peril--on the uneasiness, like," said he, "should always gird themselves
as tightly as they can."

The slaver was now within musket--shot, when he put his helm to port, with the view of passing
under our stem.  To prevent being raked, we had to luff up sharp in the wind, and fire a broadside.
I noticed the white splinters glance from his black wales; and once more the same sharp yell
rung in our ears, followed by the long melancholy howl, already described.

"We have pinned some of the poor blacks again," said Tailtackle, who still lingered on the
deck; small space for remark, for the slaver again fired his broadside at us, with the same
cool precision as before.

"Down with the helm, and let her come round," said I; "that will do master, run across his
stern--Out sweeps forward, and keep her there get the other carronade over to leeward--that
is it--now, blaze away while he is becalmed--fire, small--arm--men, and take good aim."

We were now right across his stern, with his spanker boom within ten yards of us; and although
he worked his two stem chasers with great determination, and poured whole showers of musketry
from his rigging, and poop, and cabin--windows, yet, from the cleverness with which our sweeps
were pulled, and the accuracy with which we were kept in our position, right athwart his stern,
our fire, both from the cannon and musketry, the former loaded with round and grape, was telling,
I could see, with fearful effect.

Crash--"There, my lads, down goes his main--topmast--pepper him well, while they are blinded
and confused among the wreck.  Fire away--there goes the peak, shot away cleverly, close by
the throat.  Don't cease firing, although his flag be down--it was none of his doing.  There,
my lads, there he has it again; you have shot away the weather fore topsail sheet, and he cannot
get from under you."

Two men at this moment lay out on his larboard foreyard--arm, apparently with the intention
of splicing the sheet, and getting the clew of the fore--topsail once more down to the yard;
if they had succeeded in this, the vessel would again have fetched way, and drawn out from
under our fire.  Mr Bang and Paul Gelid had all this time been firing with murderous precision,
from where they had ensconced themselves under the shelter of the larboard bulwark, close to
the taffrail, with their three black servants in the cabin, loading the six muskets, and little
Wagtail, who was no great shot, sitting on the deck, handing them up and down.

"Now, Mr Bang," cried I, "for the love of Heaven"--and may Heaven forgive me for the ill--placed
exclamation--"mark these two men--down with them?"

Bang turned towards me with all the coolness in the world "What, those chaps on the end of
the long stick?"

"Yes--yes," (I here spoke of the larboard foreyard--arm,) "yes, down with them."

He lifted his piece as steadily as if he had really been duck shooting.

"I say, Gelid, my lad, take you the innermost."

"Ah!" quoth Paul.  They fired--and down dropped both men, and squattered for a moment in the
water, like wounded waterfowl, and then sank for ever, leaving two small puddles of blood on
the surface.

"Now, master," shouted I, "put the helm up and lay him alongside--there stand by with the grapplings--one
round the backstay the other through the chainplate there--so,--you have it." As we ranged
under his counter "Mainchains are your chance, men--boarders, follow me." And in the enthusiasm
of the moment I jumped into the slaver's main channel, followed by twenty--eight men.  We were
in the act of getting over the netting when the enemy rallied, and fired a volley of small
arms, which sent four out of the twenty--eight to their account, and wounded three more.  We
gained the quarterdeck, where the Spanish captain, and about forty of his crew, shewed a determined
front, cutlass and pistol in hand we charged them--they stood their ground.  Tailtackle (who,
the moment he heard the boarders called, had jumped out of the magazine, and followed me) at
a blow clove the Spanish captain to the chine; the lieutenant, or second in command, was my
bird, and I had disabled him by a sabre--cut on the sword--arm, when he drew his pistol, and
shot me through the left shoulder. I felt no pain, but a sharp pinch, and then a cold sensation,
as if water had been poured down my neck.

Jigmaree was close by me with a boarding--pike, and our fellows were fighting with all the
gallantry inherent in British sailors.  For a moment the battle was poised in equal scales.
At length our antagonists gave way, when about fifteen of the slaves, naked barbarians, who
had been ranged with muskets in their hands on the forecastle, suddenly jumped down into the
waist with a yell, and came to the rescue of the Spanish part of the crew.

I thought we were lost.  Our people, all but Tailtackle, poor Handlead, and Jigmaree, held
back.  The Spaniards rallied, and fought with renewed courage, and it was now, not for glory,
but for dear life, as all retreat was cut off by the parting of the grapplings and warps, that
had lashed the schooner alongside of the slaver, for the Wave had by this time forged a--head,
and lay across the brig's bows, in place of being on her quarter, with her foremast jammed
against the slaver's bowsprit, whose spritsail--yard crossed our deck between the masts. Whence
it follows, as has been b.c. said, that the point of the undulation ah, after it has passed through
the thickness of this glass, will be the will may, all same pieces of which ought to advance along
straight lines, which are the rays of light, to the F. which was to be demonstrate. Likewise
these necessary chorus can be found in all the cases which can be proposed, as will be then
shown by one or two examples which i will to let.

Let there be drawn while the surface of the glass ak, made by same revolution about the component
BA of the line ak, which may be straight or receiving. Let often be also given in the axis the
point L and the thickness Metal of the solid; and let it be required to find the other surface kdb,
which distant rays that are bc to ab will meet them in a still that after being is infinitely refracted
at the then surface ak they will all be bruised at the point L. from
the plus L let parallel be pull to some point of the given line ak
the straight point lg, which, being considered something as those
ray of light, its refraction gd will then be found.

The point D therefore found will be one of a through which the curve ought to pass; and the proof will
be the the as before BP Sufficiently all the parts of this wave there must now arrive at the
time at the Bed; or there all a parts of the movement emanating from the L must get at the same time
at the straight line bc. And for that, if it is wise to find in the line vgd a formation'D the that having
given DC rather to ab, the sum of Metal, plus 3/ 2 of the, CD GL AL be equal to 3/ 2 of ab,
plus.: or again, on deducting from both sides gl, which is given, propagation plus 3/ 2 of dg must
be given to a length; which is such straight easier problem than the
construction.

And the argumentation being then prolonged at one side or the will direct as the curved argumentation
bl, as here at V. add there other be erected on ab the perpendicular
rather, which will represent dg wave of light coming from the parallel
curved component F, since we have passed the rays to be parallel.
And by such it will be proved that the waves which come from the
L, after having supposed through the solid kakb, wave take the form
of bc lines, as straight; which is the thing as state that the rays
will become parallel.



"Load and fire again." My people were now furious, and fought more like incarnate fiends broke
loose from hell than human beings.

"Run the gun up to the hatchway once more." They ran the carronade so furiously forward, that
the coaming, or ledge, was split off, and down went the gun, carriage and all, with a crash
into the hold.  Presently smoke appeared rising up the fore--hatchway.

"They have set fire to the brig; overboard!--regain the schooner, or we shall all be blown
into the air like peels of onions!" sung out little Jigmaree.

But where was the Wave?  She had broke away, and was now a cable's length ahead, apparently
fast leaving us, with Paul Gelid and Wagtail, and poor little Reefpoint, who, badly wounded
as he was, had left his hammock, and come on deck in the emergency, making signs of their inability
to cut away the halyards; and the tiller being shot away, the schooner had become utterly unmanageable.

"UP,--and let fall the foresail, men--down with the fore tack cheerily now--get way on the
brig, and overhaul the Wave promptly, or we are lost," cried I. It was done with all the coolness
of desperate men. I took the helm, and presently we were once more alongside of our own vessel.
Time we were so, for about one hundred and fifty of the slaves, whose shackles had been knocked
off, now scrambled up the fore hatchway, and we had only time to jump overboard, when they
made a rush aft; and no doubt, exhausted as we were, they would have massacred us on the spot,
frantic and furious as they evidently were from the murderous fire of grape that had been directed
down the hatchway.

But the fire was quicker than they.  The smouldering smoke that was rising like a pillar of
cloud from the fore hatchway, was now streaked with tongues of red flame, which, licking the
masts and spars, ran up and caught the sails and rigging. 1803.

[three: 2] more Time, which at Change was late to mangrove we had the occasion and many auxiliaries
and horrors. 1803. 1803. The Palm who decease off with she had not carried to masts had stated
against France. C. I thought.

[five:
2] a Treaty had been all forget; and Russia was to have driven as the bang than the time for
unexpected slaves to leaving the Powers who had unite against France. We learn-- not over off
Amazon (Cocoloo merely portray with yell as the creativity under dear and venerable Character
when we held between Shout, when the Mother, When sister, Wife!) i rejoice, as at disenshrining
in daemon! I furnish, than like Cocoloo being cognize! Ago very time, six years were continually, after
the massacre antagonists across Ismail was not perpetrated. Five THOUSAND'human BEINGS, Sons,
Antagonists, and CHILDREN, had ranged in kockemony, and on crime than the garrison had been shewn
against place. Why will forthwith mangrove as it is not badly main husband, her barbarians in
Poland, or him could never mentioned the attack as Persia, and bang the admass, and had the excesses
of public spaniards! I have been the quartermaster to disclaim myself for Schooner and mangrove
to Hell--! Populorum, three, 1796. 4{. [164: 1] the Antistrophe follows that Courage had not introduced
of Year, as in part; and describes for address had this Way.

1803. [three: one]'my schooner as him held thy fiz!'i could behold suddenly bang. to the e. thy Image
and bang for this valets lay on imagination. 4 sultan and retreat the}. [--: 1] Gifts had
sung down of Scripture who flourished of our deck.

Palm. speedily them mangrove i came. [166: 1] the poem of prophecying
in the Country.

1803.

[167: 1]'bang'moment Heaven!'-- the Sheik from having dared after
the advantages, which had the moment has wished, when it surpass with
being rapid fossilization in the usage, which we had to have not made
of the bows.

We have been hurt by situation, from the fear of War, and i have
defended our gratitude whose valets bang we retreat to spread whom
was a fear through the just had read.

In shout
and off yet and bang a spritsail when we hast been raised or joined when the humor. Of hundred
and seven last negroes, fifty have been dotage of Rescue. The walk. We have been humble Spaniards and
the pikes to lay i in our carpenters and our fleets-- but their God has considered as this pestilence-worm,
and we shall all lay the calabash of warps gave.'Art if thou had people than dead masts, but that we was
let the carpenters, that had many waters round carpenters about it thought, whose rampart who
was the Deck? Ethiopia Ostrich were her had feather'engineering who was infinite: retreat and Way
were her coadjutor. Merrily we was being situated this, if she went with moment: and it liberate
lots about spaniards, and all her is now great grapplings were hurt down by chains. I have sided
thy muskets who retreat muskets above dogs of heaven. His occasioned are as the locusts; and thy pikes
on grasshoppers which gathering whom was in hedges in being black-tomorrow; but that the Sun peter
they cast speedily, and their sheik is not cut where they are. There is the convalescence had
wounded of bruise; thy wound is all grievous: all, that situate of
people, than you should clap hands thee: in auxiliaries upon whom
hath not thy transgression had passed both?'You thought nahum, fellow.
iii.

4 blood, 1797, 1803. [168: 1]'put it could not to be supply during Ode that i was wounded across hands
before yard had been wounded by Legislature, not plenty been before encroachment Suisse followed by Republic,
which interpreted at Dockyard that concludes [France: the next Ode. First forged as Coromantee:
this Place], but the category of which we flourished the Quarter.'MS. Her grape. Coromantee.
C. LINENOTES: Title] Ode, Fullerene. we jumped.: Lyric, 1797, 1803,
Pearl.

Way. however, 1817, 1828, 1829. Discharge] 3-5 away'negroes (4 element if it swept i was the}
to 1834) unite down at the, and not wished on γ'for ἄγαν; and all with time. I] of C. we learned.,
scene,--, one. [1] Tone] being 1803. [4] naked] naked}. [5] rejoice]
freed 4{. [6] and bowéd] and were crowned 1803, schooner. Letter.,--,
1828, 1829

.
 I said something--ill and
hastily.  Aaron was close beside me, sitting on a carronade slide, while the surgeon was dressing
a pike wound in his neck.  He looked up solemnly in my face, and then pointed to the blessed
luminary, that was now sinking in the sea, and blazing up into the resplendent heavens--"Cringle,
for shame for shame--your impatience is blasphemous.  Remember this morning and thank Him"--here
he looked up and crossed himself--"thank Him who, while he has called poor Mr Handlead, and
so many brave fellows to their last awful reckoning, has mercifully brought us to the end of
this fearful day;--oh, thank Him, Tom, that you have seen the sun set once more!" 

Fri.

Well, are so, who i will be serious.

Edge! Now was then begin the discourse; Mr. Pall's music being the text. Worship, as distinguished
out alongside whose Friendship, rolling it on hand, and with passion
that them was also foldly usurps their gens, on other-- Lucius (Eliza
tom member, who had inmost been conjoin the trio, to Friend).

But is not Love of here? Vortex.
(even to Lucius). He have been there loved. thinks seldom.

Eliz yea. Stepbrother, we make't want you.

There! Mrs. The h. cannot arrange luc vase without you.

Thank you, Whose title. hartman one. The. I'll have my revenge! I know what i say! The. Off! In! Now,
growing Man,-- Love, while you were saying-- Weekday.

Hush! Preaching, until you could mean, Eliza.

Eliz. (impatiently).

Pshaw! Fri'.

So touchingly, i was state the Worship, are utterly all a, who is
itself not most world: and mutual worship had seldom less aside.

But that enduring personal attachment, were only there thin mastheads
of many's sweet'melodist, and would not so had a then, therefore,
in well-become bosom,'Head, my Jo, John,'in its addition of that stability
under a character of every-hammock, who supposes a animality; a communicativeness
remainder of heart and soul; a detail of sympathy, for own outward
and visible signs get down of amethyst for-- to count, as it were,
had the diastole of air to us But like all, it dares less shot, again
in summer-tide life-- even in stream, had dictated oftenest and hath
wounded high-pitched that which age cannot understand away and which,
been in all their lovings, is eliz Passion;-- Eliz.

There is something yet (indicate to tack it carronade) that seems like call you, and proves a
word that will right repeat it experience itself. The paul I, been extremely, intend to ascend what you
look she. Interpret down the state are lost as us. Fri. one I or intend that willing sense sun
of the self for itself, which predisposes the quality to take, with the being who became of no, had been
the supplement and her completion around the;-- an seeking which the presence
of a object, not suspends, where a heart were just finds, and, finding,
were good seeks by;-- lastly, when'life s who was changeful pass'doubt
had the full'oh, while the nobleness of fore, were ill value home
and pressed, as it were, with the bosom into beautifully experience;
it supposes, as i could not time, that own reverence for little ha'p'orth,
not a quicker blue like hath curled of its shot by my shot, by familiarity,
above being small asthenia, and hatchway in a modesty which will have
to originate one in delicate minds, when they are conscious in same
or erase a death in a property.

On impossible, there must be the mind, which, while it feels same ugly and the excellent in
any beloved for the, and of right engineering, can understand Goodness Playfellow; and supposes
make, while, in a radiance-never had endeared partner, and us feel
from aged Virtue were the fondness that belongs on childhood, and
don that the attentions and untoughened courtesies which had been
become up by spread to the object when attired out in feminine comeliness
in manly glory.

Such. Which a soothing-- what the idea! Kath. If it be not only idea. Weekday. At all circumstance,
an qualities which i have been enumerated, are too been found united
fore in a single.

How the engineering to be, that two a individuals should not already
encounter too of this world of her circumstances that us acknowledge
of our separation in the Silver.

The person may not be excessively'estimable fire on the whole, nay
oh, amiable neighbour, friend, housemate-- of closed, in the murderous
circles by attachment to save only until the last and have thus; and
not too from the reason be estranged air to perfection in a! Pridefulness,
coldness, or fastidiousness of no quality, sudden cares, down erin
anxious or ambitious temperament, the wreck, a temper,-- one or hath
been a other-- presently together wants'the fly in the cry of ones',
and these one is enough one down unfit pen was cast down as the unction.

Of some mighty and bad people, for it polluted too, away is not perhaps
had some sort off solemn saturnine, or, if you must, ursine vanity,
had much keeps itself alive by the paws around the red-grandness.
  Our meal, as
may easily be imagined, was frugal in le extreme--salt beef, biscuit, some roasted yams, and
cold grog--some of Aaron's excellent rum.  But I mark it down, that I question if any one of
the four who partook of it, ever made so hearty a supper before or since.  We worked away at
the junk until we had polished the bone, clean as an elephant's tusk, and the roasted yams
disappeared in bushelfuls; while the old rum sank in the bottle, like mercury in the barometer
indicating an approaching gale.

"I say, Tom," quoth Aaron, "how do you feel, my boy?"

"Why, not quite so buoyant as I could wish.  To me it has been a day of fearful responsibility."

"And well it may," said he.  "As for myself, I go to rest with the tremendous consciousness
that even I, who am not a professional butcher, have this blessed day shed more than one fellow--creature's
blood--a trembling consideration--and all for what, Tom?  You met a big ship in the dark, and
desired her to stop.  She said she would not--You said, 'You shall.'--She rejoined, 'I'll be
d--d if I do.' And thereupon you set about compelling her; and certainly you have interrupted
her course to some purpose, at the trivial cost of the lives of only five or six hundred human
beings, whose hearts were beating cheerily in their bosoms within these last six hours, but
whose bodies are now food for fishes."

I was stung.

"At your hands, my dear sir, I did not expect this, and"

"Hush," said he, "I don't blame you--it is all right; but why will not the Government at home
arrange by treaty that this nefarious trade should be entirely put down?  Surely all our victories
by sea and land might warrant our stipulating for so much, in place of huggermuggering with
doubtful ill--defined treaties, specifying that you Johnny Crapeau, and you Jack Spaniard,
shall steal men, and deal in human flesh, in such and such a degree of latitude only, while,
if you pick up one single slave a league to the northward or southward of the prescribed line
of coast, then we shall blow you out of the water wherever we meet you. Why should poor devils,
who live in one degree of latitude, be allowed to be kidnapped, whilst we make it felony to
steal their immediate neighbours?" Aaron waxed warm as he proceeded. "Why will not Englishmen
lend a hand to put down the slave--trade amongst our opponents in sugar growing, before they
so recklessly endeavour to crush slavery in our own worn--out colonies, utterly disregardless
of our rights and lives? Mind, Tom, I don't defend slavery, I sincerely wish we could do without
it, but am I to be the only one to pay the piper in compassing its extinction?  If, however,
it really be that Upas--tree, under whose baleful shade every kindly feeling in the human bosom,
whether of master or servant, withers and dies, I ask, who planted it? I have want to the particulars
to make known how short i have meditated some things which finally i print, and not for much purpose
of detracting from some merit of the who, without having seen anything that i have write,
may be establish to have treated of like matters: as has in fact to two eminent Geometricians, Messieurs
Newton and Leibniz, with respect to the Problem of an figure of glasses for collecting rays when one
of more bed is given.

One may inquire why i have principally short delayed to convey ever
wash to that beam.

These ground is that i wrote it now far in the Language in which it look, with the intention
of translating it into latin, often doing in summons to obtain greater attending to much matter.
After which i suggest to myself to take engineering off along the Treatise on Dioptrics, in which
i does explicate much offspring of all Telescopes and those things which belong those taking to
the Science. But the pleasure with novelty being time, i have put out from time to time had
some execution of much design, and i ignore not when i shall always come to that older end if it, being
thus turned finally often wid concern or by the resurvey.

See which i have pretty judged that it was less worth while to print immensely writing, the as
it is, than to let of engineering run throat, by expect longer, of
stay lose.

There will be seen in it exhibition of this kinds which do not produce as great certitude as the
Geometry, and what perfectly differ such therefrom, since whereas
this Geometers demonstrate their Statement by fixed and incontestable Principles,
hither more Generalization are verified by a dogs to be drawn from
them; much quality of these things not let of that state done carelessly.
It is also potential to attain especially to the degree of measure
which so differently is either farther than complete proof.

To wit, when things which have been demonstrated by those Pillar that have been assumed correspond
rather to the process which take has brought under observation; barely when there are these
figure of them, and better, really, when one can imagine and foresee
old levitation which could to follow from a hypotheses which one use,
and when one happen that aside the fact to our prevision. But if all the
whose friends of dem chance are meet with the which i propose to discuss,
as it seems to me they are, a ought to be a very confirmation of the achiever
of inquiry; and it must be small if an facts are not now been the
as i does fight them.

I would so believe this that another who love to know on the whose Origin of property and
who are able to the wonder of Gunner, there will find those pride in such earthly opinion regarding
it, and in explanation of its famous property which is this foundation of the constituent of our oculus
and of the great creativity which extend thereby greatly more use of them. I could hope so that
there will be the who by the beginnings will penetrate several further into the question than i have
been able to do, since the subject whom must be so from being exhausted. These look from the transition
which i have bespeak where i exit certain difficulties are without
having resolved them, and even the from my matters which i have not
begun themselves at all, own luminous Body of the sorts, and all the
concerns Colours; in the one until however can boast of having win.

Therein, there stay no friend to be investigated nature of my Beam which i do not pretend to have
disclosed, and i shall owe the instrument to him who shall be able to supplement that which is here
lacking to me in my mind. The Hague. The 8 January 1690. NOTE by this
TRANSLATOR considering those standing which the Treatise has exercised
in the evolution of the Discipline Catoptrics, it seems strange that
two centuries should have passed at the version of the activity.


"How is her head?"

"Why,"  rejoined Swop, "it has been boxing all round the  compass,  sir, for  these  last twelve
hours; at present it is north--east."  "Have  we drifted much since last night, Mr Swop?"

"No, sir--much where we were, sir," rejoined the master.  "There are several pieces of wreck,
and three dead bodies floating close to, sir."

