"Of course, I had no idea," said Aldous; "suddenly Lady Winterbourne and I came across her
on the terrace. Then I saw she was with that man's party. She spoke to me afterwards--I believe
now--she meant to be kind"--his voice showed the difficulty he had in speaking at all--"but
I saw him coming up to talk to her. I am ashamed to think of my own manner, but I could not
help myself."

His face and eye took, as he spoke, a peculiar vividness and glow. Raeburn had not for months
mentioned to him the name of Marcella Boyce, but Hallin had all along held two faiths about
the matter: first, that Aldous was still possessed by a passion which had become part of his
life; secondly, that the events of the preceding year had produced in him an exceedingly bitter
sense of ill-usage, of a type which Hallin had not perhaps expected.

"Did you see anything to make you suppose," he asked quietly, after a pause, "that she is going
to marry him?"

"No--no," Aldous repeated slowly; "but she is clearly on friendly, perhaps intimate, terms
with him. And just now, of course, she is more likely to be influenced by him than ever. He
made a great success--of a kind--in the House a fortnight ago. People seem to think he may
come rapidly to the front."

"So I understand. I don't believe it. The jealousies that divide that group are too unmanageable.
If he were a Parnell! But he lacks just the qualities that matter--the reticence, the power
of holding himself aloof from irrelevant things and interests, the hard self-concentration."

Aldous raised his shoulders.

"I don't imagine there is any lack of that! But certainly he holds himself aloof from nothing
and nobody! I hear of him everywhere."

"What!--among the smart people?"

Aldous nodded.

"A change of policy by all accounts," said Hallin, musing. "He must do it with intention. He
is not the man to let himself be be-Capua-ed all at once."

"Oh dear, no!" said Aldous, drily. "He does it with intention. Nobody supposes him to be the
mere toady. All the same I think he may very well overrate the importance of the class he is
trying to make use of, and its influence. Have you been following the strike 'leaders' in the
Clarion?"

"No!" cried Hallin, flushing. "I would not read them for the world! I might not be able to
go on giving to the strike."

Aldous fell silent, and Hallin presently saw that his mind had harked back to the one subject
that really held the depths of it. The truest friendship, Hallin believed, would be never to
speak to him of Marcella Boyce--never to encourage him to dwell upon her, or upon anything
connected with her. But his yearning, sympathetic instinct would not let him follow his own
conviction.

"Miss Boyce, you know, has been here two or three times while you have been away," he said
quickly, as he got up to post a letter.

Aldous hesitated; then he said--

"Do you gather that her nursing life satisfies her?"

Hallin made a little face.

"Since when has she become a person likely to be 'satisfied' with anything? She devotes to
it a splendid and wonderful energy. When she comes here I admire her with all my heart, and
pity her so much that I could cry over her!"

Aldous started.

"I don't know what you mean," he said, as he too rose and laid his hand on Hallin's for a moment.
"But don't tell me! It's best for me not to talk of her. If she were associated in my mind
with any other man than Wharton, I think somehow I could throw the whole thing off. But this--this--"
He broke off; then resumed, while he pretended to look for a parcel he had brought with him,
by way of covering an agitation he could not suppress. "A person you and I know said to me
the other day, 'It may sound unromantic, but I could never think of a woman who had thrown
me over except with ill-will.' The word astonished me, but sometimes I understand it. I find
myself full of anger to the most futile, the most ridiculous degree!"

He drew himself up nervously, already scorning his own absurdity, his own breach of reticence.
Hallin laid his hands on the taller man's shoulders, and there was a short pause.

"Never mind, old fellow," said Hallin, simply, at last, as his hands dropped; "let's go and
do our work. What is it you're after?--I forget."

Aldous found his packet and his hat, explaining himself again, meanwhile, in his usual voice.
He had dropped in on Hallin for a morning visit, meaning to spend some hours before the House
met in the investigation of some small workshops in the neighbourhood of Drury Lane. The Home
Office had been called upon for increased inspection and regulation; there had been a great
conflict of evidence, and Aldous had finally resolved in his student's way to see for himself
the state of things in two or three selected streets.

It was a matter on which Hallin was also well-informed, and felt strongly. They stayed talking
about it a few minutes, Hallin eagerly directing Raeburn's attention to the two or three points
where he thought the Government could really do good.

Then Raeburn turned to go.

"I shall come and drag you out to-morrow afternoon," he said, as he opened the door.

"You needn't," said Hallin, with a smile; "in fact, don't; I shall have my jaunt."

Whereby Aldous understood that he would be engaged in his common Saturday practice of taking
out a batch of elder boys or girls from one or other of the schools of which he was manager,
for a walk or to see some sight.

"If it's your boys," he said, protesting, "you're not fit for it. Hand them over to me."

"Nothing of the sort," said Hallin, gaily, and turned him out of the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Raeburn found the walk from Hallin's Bloomsbury quarters to Drury Lane hot and airless. The
planes were already drooping and yellowing in the squares, the streets were at their closest
and dirtiest, and the traffic of Holborn and its approaches had never seemed to him more bewildering
in its roar and volume. July was in, and all freshness had already disappeared from the too
short London summer.

For Raeburn on this particular afternoon there was a curious forlornness in the dry and tainted
air. His slack mood found no bracing in the sun or the breeze. Everything was or seemed distasteful
to a mind out of tune--whether this work he was upon, which only yesterday had interested him
considerably, or his Parliamentary occupations, or some tiresome estate business which would
have to be looked into when he got home. He was oppressed, too, by the last news of his grandfather.
The certainty that this dear and honoured life, with which his own had been so closely intertwined
since his boyhood, was drawing to its close weighed upon him now heavily and constantly. The
loss itself would take from him an object on which affection--checked and thwarted elsewhere--was
still free to spend itself in ways peculiarly noble and tender; and as for those other changes
to which the first great change must lead--his transference to the Upper House, and the extension
for himself of all the ceremonial side of life--he looked forward to them with an intense and
resentful repugnance, as to aggravations, perversely thrust on him from without, of a great
and necessary grief. Few men believed less happily in democracy than Aldous Raeburn; on the
other hand, few men felt a more steady distaste for certain kinds of inequality.

He was to meet a young inspector at the corner of Little Queen Street, and they were to visit
together a series of small brush-drawing and box-making workshops in the Drury Lane district,
to which the attention of the Department had lately been specially drawn. Aldous had no sooner
crossed Holborn than he saw his man waiting for him, a tall strip of a fellow, with a dark
bearded face, and a manner which shyness had made a trifle morose. Aldous, however, knew him
to be not only a capital worker, but a man of parts, and had got much information and some
ideas out of him already. Mr. Peabody gave the under-secretary a slight preoccupied smile in
return for his friendly greeting, and the two walked on together talking.

The inspector announced that he proposed to take his companion first of all to a street behind
Drury Lane, of which many of the houses were already marked for demolition--a "black street,"
bearing a peculiarly vile reputation in the neighbourhood. It contained on the whole the worst
of the small workshops which he desired to bring to Raeburn's notice, besides a variety of
other horrors, social and sanitary.

After ten minutes' walking they turned into the street. With its condemned houses, many of
them shored up and windowless, its narrow roadway strewn with costers' refuse--it was largely
inhabited by costers frequenting Covent Garden Market--its filthy gutters and broken pavements,
it touched, indeed, a depth of sinister squalor beyond most of its fellows. The air was heavy
with odours which, in this July heat, seemed to bear with them the inmost essences of things
sickening and decaying; and the children, squatting or playing amid the garbage of the street,
were further than most of their kind from any tolerable human type.

A policeman was stationed near the entrance of the street. After they had passed him, Mr. Peabody
ran back and said a word in his ear.

"I gave him your name," he said briefly, in answer to Raeburn's interrogative look, when he
returned, "and told him what we were after. The street is not quite as bad as it was; and there
are little oases of respectability in it you would never expect. But there is plenty of the
worst thieving and brutality left in it still. Of course, now you see it at its dull moment.
To-night the place will swarm with barrows and stalls, all the people will be in the street,
and after dark it will be as near pandemonium as may be. I happen to know the School Board
visitor of these parts; and a City Missionary, too, who is afraid of nothing."

And standing still a moment, pointing imperceptibly to right and left, he began in his shy,
monotonous voice to run through the inhabitants of some of the houses and a few typical histories.
This group was mainly peopled by women of the very lowest class and their "bullies"--that is
to say, the men who aided them in plundering, sometimes in murdering, the stranger who fell
into their claws; in that house a woman had been slowly done to death by her husband and his
brutal brothers under every circumstance of tragic horror; in the next a case of flagrant and
revolting cruelty to a pair of infant children had just been brought to light. In addition
to its vice and its thievery, the wretched place was, of course, steeped in drink. There were
gin-palaces at all the corners; the women drank, in proportion to their resources, as badly
as the men, and the children were fed with the stuff in infancy, and began for themselves as
early as they could beg or steal a copper of their own.

When the dismal catalogue was done, they moved on towards the further end of the street, and
a house on the right hand side. Behind the veil of his official manner Aldous's shrinking sense
took all it saw and heard as fresh food for a darkness and despondency of soul already great
enough. But his companion--a young enthusiast, secretly very critical of "big-wigs"--was conscious
only of the trained man of affairs, courteous, methodical, and well-informed, putting a series
of preliminary questions with unusual point and rapidity.

Suddenly, under the influence of a common impression, both men stood still and looked about
them. There was a stir in the street. Windows had been thrown open, and scores of heads were
looking out. People emerged from all quarters, seemed to spring from the ground or drop from
the skies, and in a few seconds, as it were, the street, so dead-alive before, was full of
a running and shouting crowd.

"It's a fight!" said Peabody, as the crowd came up with them. "Listen!"

Shrieks--of the most ghastly and piercing note, rang through the air. The men and women who
rushed past the two strangers--hustling them, yet too excited to notice them--were all making
for a house some ten or twelve yards in front of them, to their left. Aldous had turned white.

"It is a woman!" he said, after an instant's listening, "and it sounds like murder. You go
back for that policeman!"

And without another word he threw himself on the crowd, forcing his way through it by the help
of arms and shoulders which, in years gone by, had done good service for the Trinity Eight.
Drink-sodden men and screaming women gave way before him. He found himself at the door of the
house, hammering upon it with two or three other men who were there before him. The noise from
within was appalling--cries, groans, uproar--all the sounds of a deadly struggle proceeding
apparently on the second floor of the house. Then came a heavy fall--then the sound of a voice,
different in quality and accent from any that had gone before, crying piteously and as though
in exhaustion--"Help!"

Almost at the same moment the door which Aldous and his companions were trying to force was
burst open from within, and three men seemed to be shot out from the dark passage inside--two
wrestling with the third, a wild beast in human shape, maddened apparently with drink, and
splashed with blood.

"Ee's done for her!" shouted one of the captors; "an' for the Sister too!"

"The Sister!" shrieked a woman behind Aldous--it's the nuss he means! I sor her go in when
I wor at my window half an hour ago. Oh! yer blackguard, you!"--and she would have fallen upon
the wretch, in a frenzy, had not the bystanders caught hold of her.

"Stand back!" cried a policeman. Three of them had come up at Peabody's call. The man was instantly
secured, and the crowd pushed back.

Aldous was already upstairs.

"Which room?" he asked of a group of women crying and cowering on the first landing--for all
sounds from above had ceased.

"Third floor front," cried one of them. "We all of us begged and implored of that young person,
sir, not to go a-near him! Didn't we, Betsy?--didn't we, Doll?"

Aldous ran up.

On the third floor, the door of the front room was open. A woman lay on the ground, apparently
beaten to death.

By her side, torn, dishevelled, and gasping, knelt Marcella Boyce. Two or three other women
were standing by in helpless terror and curiosity. Marcella was bending over the bleeding victim
before her. Her own left arm hung as though disabled by her side; but with the right hand she
was doing her best to staunch some of the bleeding from the head. Her bag stood open beside
her, and one of the chattering women was handing her what she asked for. The sight stamped
itself in lines of horror on Raeburn's heart.

In such an exaltation of nerve she could be surprised at nothing. When she saw Raeburn enter
the room, she did not even start.

"I think," she said, as he stooped down to her--speaking with pauses, as though to get her
breath--"he has--killed her. But there--is a chance. Are the--police there--and a stretcher?"

Two constables entered as she spoke, and the first of them instantly sent his companion back
for a stretcher. Then, noticing Marcella's nursing dress and cloak, he came up to her respectfully.

"Did you see it, miss?"

"I--I tried to separate them," she replied, still speaking with the same difficulty, while
she silently motioned to Aldous, who was on the other side of the unconscious and apparently
dying woman, to help her with the bandage she was applying. "But he was--such a great--powerful
brute."

Aldous, hating the clumsiness of his man's fingers, knelt down and tried to help her. Her trembling
hand touched, mingled with his.

"I was downstairs," she went on, while the constable took out his note-book, "attending a child--that's
ill--when I heard the screams. They were on the landing; he had turned her out of the room--then
rushed after her--I think--to throw her downstairs--I stopped that. Then he took up something--oh!
there it is!" She shuddered, pointing to a broken piece of a chair which lay on the floor.
"He was quite mad with drink--I couldn't--do much."

Her voice slipped into a weak, piteous note.

"Isn't your arm hurt?" said Aldous, pointing to it.

"It's not broken--it's wrenched; I can't use it. There--that's all we can do--till she gets--to
hospital."

Then she stood up, pale and staggering, and asked the policeman if he could put on a bandage.
The man had got his ambulance certificate, and was proud to say that he could. She took a roll
out of her bag, and quietly pointed to her arm. He did his best, not without skill, and the
deep line of pain furrowing the centre of the brow relaxed a little. Then she sank down on
the floor again beside her patient, gazing at the woman's marred face--indescribably patient
in its deep unconsciousness--at the gnarled and bloodstained hands, with their wedding-ring;
at the thin locks of torn grey hair--with tears that ran unheeded down her cheeks, in a passion
of anguished pity, which touched a chord of memory in Raeburn's mind. He had seen her look
so once before--beside Minta Hurd, on the day of Hurd's capture.

At the same moment he saw that they were alone. The policeman had cleared the room, and was
spending the few minutes that must elapse before his companion returned with the stretcher,
in taking the names and evidence of some of the inmates of the house, on the stairs outside.

"You can't do anything more," said Aldous, gently, bending over her. "Won't you let me take
you home?--you want it sorely. The police are trained to these things, and I have a friend
here who will help. They will remove her with every care--he will see to it."

Then for the first time her absorption gave way. She remembered who he was--where they were--how
they had last met. And with the remembrance came an extraordinary leap of joy, flashing through
pain and faintness. She had the childish feeling that he could not look unkindly at her anymore--after
this! When at the White House she had got herself into disgrace, and could not bring her pride
to ask pardon, she would silently set up a headache or a cut finger that she might be pitied,
and so, perforce, forgiven. The same tacit thought was in her mind now. No!--after this he
must be friends with her.

"I will just help to get her downstairs," she said, but with a quivering, appealing accent--and
so they fell silent.

Aldous looked round the room--at the miserable filthy garret with its begrimed and peeling
wall-paper, its two or three broken chairs, its heap of rags across two boxes that served for
a bed; its empty gin-bottles here and there--all the familiar, one might almost say conventionalised,
signs of human ruin and damnation--then at this breathing death between himself and her. Perhaps
his strongest feeling was one of fierce and natural protest against circumstance--against her
mother!--against a reckless philanthropy that could thus throw the finest and fragilest things
of a poorly-furnished world into such a hopeless struggle with devildom.

"I have been here several times before," she said presently, in a faint voice, "and there has
never been any trouble. By day the street is not much worse than others--though, of course,
it has a bad name. There is a little boy on the next floor very ill with typhoid. Many of the
women in the house are very good to him and his mother. This poor thing--used to come in and
out--when I was nursing him--Oh, I wish--I wish they would come!" she broke off in impatience,
looking at the deathly form--"every moment is of importance!"

As Aldous went to the door to see if the stretcher was in sight, it opened, and the police
came in. Marcella, herself helpless, directed the lifting of the bloodstained head; the police
obeyed her with care and skill. Then Raeburn assisted in the carrying downstairs, and presently
the police with their burden, and accompanied apparently by the whole street, were on their
way to the nearest hospital.

Then Aldous, to his despair and wrath, saw that an inspector of police, who had just come up,
was talking to Marcella, no doubt instructing her as to how and where she was to give her evidence.
She was leaning against the passage wall, supporting her injured arm with her hand, and seemed
to him on the point of fainting.

"Get a cab at once, will you!" he said peremptorily to Peabody; then going up to the inspector
he drew him forward. They exchanged a few words, the inspector lifted his cap, and Aldous went
back to Marcella.

"There is a cab here," he said to her. "Come, please, directly. They will not trouble you any
more for the present."

He led her out through the still lingering crowd and put her into the cab. As they drove along,
he felt every jolt and roughness of the street as though he were himself in anguish. She was
some time before she recovered the jar of pain caused her by the act of getting into the cab.
Her breath came fast, and he could see that she was trying hard to control herself and not
to faint.

He, too, restrained himself so far as not to talk to her. But the exasperation, the revolt
within, was in truth growing unmanageably. Was this what her new career--her enthusiasms--meant,
or might mean! Twenty-three!--in the prime of youth, of charm! Horrible, unpardonable waste!
He could not bear it, could not submit himself to it.

Oh! let her marry Wharton, or any one else, so long as it were made impossible for her to bruise
and exhaust her young bloom amid such scenes--such gross physical abominations. Amazing!--how
meanly, passionately timorous the man of Raeburn's type can be for the woman! He himself may
be morally "ever a fighter," and feel the glow, the stern joy of the fight. But she!--let her
leave the human brute and his unsavoury struggle alone! It cannot be borne--it was never meant--that
she should dip her delicate wings, of her own free will at least, in such a mire of blood and
tears. It was the feeling that had possessed him when Mrs. Boyce told him of the visit to the
prison, the night in the cottage.

In her whirl of feverish thought, she divined him very closely. Presently, as he watched her--hating
the man for driving and the cab for shaking--he saw her white lips suddenly smile.

"I know," she said, rousing herself to look at him; "you think nursing is all like that!"

"I hope not!" he said, with effort, trying to smile too.

"I never saw a fight before," she said, shutting her eyes again. "Nobody is ever rude to us--I
often pine for experiences!"

How like her old, wild tone! His rigid look softened involuntarily.

"Well, you have got one now," he said, bending over to her. "Does your arm hurt you much?"

"Yes,--but I can bear it. What vexes me is that I shall have to give up work for a bit.--Mr.
Raeburn!"

"Yes." His heart beat.

"We may meet often--mayn't we?--at Lady Winterbourne's--or in the country? Couldn't we be friends?
You don't know how often--" She turned away her weary head a moment--gathered strength to begin
again--"--how often I have regretted--last year. I see now--that I behaved--more unkindly"--her
voice was almost a whisper--"than I thought then. But it is all done with--couldn't we just
be good friends--understand each other, perhaps, better than we ever did?"

She kept her eyes closed, shaken with alternate shame and daring.

As for him, he was seized with overpowering dumbness and chill. What was really in his mind
was the Terrace--was Wharton's advancing figure. But her state--the moment--coerced him.

"We could not be anything but friends," he said gently, but with astonishing difficulty; and
then could find nothing more to say. She knew his reserve, however, and would not this time
be repelled.

She put out her hand.

"No!" she said, looking at it and withdrawing it with a shudder; "oh no!"

Then suddenly a passion of tears and trembling overcame her. She leant against the side of
the cab, struggling in vain to regain her self-control, gasping incoherent things about the
woman she had not been able to save. He tried to soothe and calm her, his own heart wrung.
But she hardly heard him.

At last they turned into Maine Street, and she saw the gateway of Brown's Buildings.

"Here we are," she said faintly, summoning all her will; "do you know you will have to help
me across that court, and upstairs--then I shan't be any more trouble."

So, leaning on Raeburn's arm, Marcella made her slow progress across the court of Brown's Buildings
and through the gaping groups of children. Then at the top of her flight of steps she withdrew
herself from him with a wan smile.

"Now I am home," she said. "Good-bye!"

Aldous looked round him well at Brown's Buildings as he departed. Then he got into a hansom,
and drove to Lady Winterbourne's house, and implored her to fetch and nurse Marcella Boyce,
using her best cleverness to hide all motion of his in the matter.

After which he spent--poor Aldous!--one of the most restless and miserable nights of his life.

CHAPTER XI.

Marcella was sitting in a deep and comfortable chair at the open window of Lady Winterbourne's
drawing-room. The house--in James Street, Buckingham Gate--looked out over the exercising ground
of the great barracks in front, and commanded the greenery of St. James's Park to the left.
The planes lining the barrack railings were poor, wilted things, and London was as hot as ever.
Still the charm of these open spaces of sky and park, after the high walls and innumerable
windows of Brown's Buildings, was very great; Marcella wanted nothing more but to lie still,
to dally with a book, to dream as she pleased, and to be let alone.

Lady Winterbourne and her married daughter, Lady Ermyntrude, were still out, engaged in the
innumerable nothings of the fashionable afternoon. Marcella had her thoughts to herself.

But they were not of a kind that any one need have wished to share. In the first place, she
was tired of idleness. In the early days after Lady Winterbourne had carried her off, the soft
beds and sofas, the trained service and delicate food of this small but luxurious house had
been so pleasant to her that she had scorned herself for a greedy Sybaritic temper, delighted
by any means to escape from plain living. But she had been here a fortnight, and was now pining
to go back to work. Her mood was too restless and transitional to leave her long in love with
comfort and folded hands. She told herself that she had no longer any place among the rich
and important people of this world; far away beyond these parks and palaces, in the little
network of dark streets she knew, lay the problems and the cares that were really hers, through
which her heart was somehow wrestling--must somehow wrestle--its passionate way. But her wrenched
arm was still in a sling, and was, moreover, under-going treatment at the hands of a clever
specialist; and she could neither go home, as her mother had wished her to do, nor return to
her nursing--a state of affairs which of late had made her a little silent and moody.

On the whole she found her chief pleasure in the two weekly visits she paid to the woman whose
life, it now appeared, she had saved--probably at some risk of her own. The poor victim would
go scarred and maimed through what remained to her of existence. But she lived; and--as Marcella
and Lady Winterbourne and Raeburn had abundantly made up their minds--would be permanently
cared for and comforted in the future.

Alas! there were many things that stood between Marcella and true rest. She had been woefully
disappointed, nay wounded, as to the results of that tragic half-hour which for the moment
had seemed to throw a bridge of friendship over those painful, estranging memories lying between
her and Aldous Raeburn. He had called two or three times since she had been with Lady Winterbourne;
he had done his best to make her inevitable appearance as a witness in the police-court, as
easy to her as possible; the man who had stood by her through such a scene could do no less,
in common politeness and humanity. But each time they met his manner had been formal and constrained;
there had been little conversation; and she had been left to the bitterness of feeling that
she had made a strange if not unseemly advance, of which he must think unkindly, since he had
let it count with him so little.

Childishly, angrily--she wanted him to be friends! Why shouldn't he? He would certainly marry
Betty Macdonald in time, whatever Mr. Hallin might say. Then why not put his pride away and
be generous? Their future lives must of necessity touch each other, for they were bound to
the same neighbourhood, the same spot of earth. She knew herself to be her father's heiress.
Mellor must be hers some day; and before that day, whenever her father's illness, of which
she now understood the incurable though probably tedious nature, should reach a certain stage,
she must go home and take up her life there again. Why embitter such a situation?--make it
more difficult for everybody concerned? Why not simply bury the past and begin again? In her
restlessness she was inclined to think herself much wiser and more magnanimous than he.

Meanwhile in the Winterbourne household she was living among people to whom Aldous Raeburn
was a dear and familiar companion, who admired him with all their hearts, and felt a sympathetic
interest alike in his private life and his public career. Their circle, too, was his circle;
and by means of it she now saw Aldous in his relations to his equals and colleagues, whether
in the Ministry or the House. The result was a number of new impressions which she half resented,
as we may resent the information that some stranger will give us upon a subject we imagined
ourselves better acquainted with than anybody else. The promise of Raeburn's political position
struck her quick mind with a curious surprise. She could not explain it as she had so often
tacitly explained his place in Brookshire--by the mere accidents of birth. After all, aristocratic
as we still are, no party can now afford to choose its men by any other criterion than personal
profitableness. And a man nowadays is in the long run personally profitable, far more by what
he is than by what he has--so far at least has "progress" brought us.

She saw then that this quiet, strong man, with his obvious defects of temperament and manner,
had already gained a remarkable degree of "consideration," using the word in its French sense,
among his political contemporaries. He was beginning to be reckoned upon as a man of the future
by an inner circle of persons whose word counted and carried; while yet his name was comparatively
little known to the public. Marcella, indeed, had gathered her impression from the most slight
and various sources--mostly from the phrases, the hints, the manner of men already themselves
charged with the most difficult and responsible work of England. Above all things did she love
and admire power--the power of personal capacity. It had been the secret, it was still half
the secret, of Wharton's influence with her. She saw it here under wholly different conditions
and accessories. She gave it recognition with a kind of unwillingness. All the same, Raeburn
took a new place in her imagination.

Then--apart from the political world and its judgments--the intimacy between him and the Winterbourne
family showed her to him in many new aspects. To Lady Winterbourne, his mother's dear and close
friend, he was almost a son; and nothing could be more charming than the affectionate and playful
tolerance with which he treated her little oddities and weaknesses. And to all her children
he was bound by the memories and kindnesses of many years. He was the godfather of Lady Ermyntrude's
child; the hero and counsellor of the two sons, who were both in Parliament, and took his lead
in many things; while there was no one with whom Lord Winterbourne could more comfortably discuss
county or agricultural affairs. In the old days Marcella had somehow tended to regard him as
a man of few friends. And in a sense it was so. He did not easily yield himself; and was often
thought dull and apathetic by strangers. But here, amid these old companions, his delicacy
and sweetness of disposition had full play; and although, now that Marcella was in their house,
he came less often, and was less free with them than usual, she saw enough to make her wonder
a little that they were all so kind and indulgent to her, seeing that they cared so much for
him and all that affected him.

Well! she was often judged, humbled, reproached. Yet there was a certain irritation in it.
Was it all her own fault that in her brief engagement she had realised him so little? Her heart
was sometimes oddly sore; her conscience full of smart; but there were moments when she was
as combative as ever.

Nor had certain other experiences of this past fortnight been any more soothing to this sore
craving sense of hers. It appeared very soon that nothing would have been easier for her had
she chosen than to become the lion of the later season. The story of the Batton Street tragedy
had, of course, got into the papers, and had been treated there with the usual adornments of
the "New Journalism."

The world which knew the Raeburns or knew of them--comparatively a large world--fell with avidity
on the romantic juxtaposition of names. To lose your betrothed as Aldous Raeburn had lost his,
and then to come across her again in this manner and in these circumstances--there was a dramatic
neatness about it to which the careless Fate that governs us too seldom attains. London discussed
the story a good deal; and would have liked dearly to see and to exhibit the heroine. Mrs.
Lane in particular, the hostess of the House of Commons dinner, felt that she had claims, and
was one of the first to call at Lady Winterbourne's and see her guest. She soon discovered
that Marcella had no intention whatever of playing the lion; and must, in fact, avoid excitement
and fatigue. But she had succeeded in getting the girl to come to her once or twice of an afternoon
to meet two or three people. It was better for the wounded arm that its owner should walk than
drive; and Mrs. Lane lived at a convenient distance, at a house in Piccadilly, just across
the Green Park.

Here then, as in James Street, Marcella had met in discreet succession a few admiring and curious
persons, and had tasted some of the smaller sweets of fame. But the magnet that drew her to
the Lanes' house had been no craving for notoriety; at the present moment she was totally indifferent
to what perhaps constitutionally she might have liked; the attraction had been simply the occasional
presence there of Harry Wharton. He excited, puzzled, angered, and commanded her more than
ever. She could not keep herself away from the chance of meeting him. And Lady Winterbourne
neither knew him, nor apparently wished to know him--a fact which probably tended to make Marcella
obstinate.

Yet what pleasure had there been after all in these meetings! Again and again she had seen
him surrounded there by pretty and fashionable women, with some of whom he was on amazingly
easy terms, while with all of them he talked their language, and so far as she could see to
a great extent lived their life. The contradiction of the House of Commons evening returned
upon her perpetually. She thought she saw in many of his new friends a certain malicious triumph
in the readiness with which the young demagogue had yielded to their baits. No doubt they were
at least as much duped as he. Like Hallin, she did not believe, that at bottom he was the man
to let himself be held by silken bonds if it should be to his interest to break them. But,
meanwhile, his bearing among these people--the claims they and their amusement made upon his
time and his mind--seemed to this girl, who watched them, with her dark, astonished eyes, a
kind of treachery to his place and his cause. It was something she had never dreamed of; and
it roused her contempt and irritation.

Then as to herself. He had been all eagerness in his enquiries after her from Mrs. Lane; and
he never saw her in the Piccadilly drawing-room that he did not pay her homage, often with
a certain extravagance, a kind of appropriation, which Mrs. Lane secretly thought in bad taste,
and Marcella sometimes resented. On the other hand, things jarred between them frequently.
From day to day he varied. She had dreamt of a great friendship; but instead, it was hardly
possible to carry on the thread of their relation from meeting to meeting with simplicity and
trust. On the Terrace he had behaved, or would have behaved, if she had allowed him, as a lover.
When they met again at Mrs. Lane's he would be sometimes devoted in his old paradoxical, flattering
vein; sometimes, she thought, even cool. Nay, once or twice he was guilty of curious little
neglects towards her, generally in the presence of some great lady or other. On one of these
occasions she suddenly felt herself flushing from brow to chin at the thought--"He does not
want any one to suppose for a moment that he wishes to marry me!"

It had taken Wharton some difficult hours to subdue in her the effects of that one moment's
fancy. Till then it is the simple truth to say that she had never seriously considered the
possibility of marrying him. When it did enter her mind, she saw that it had already entered
his--and that he was full of doubts! The perception had given to her manner an increasing aloofness
and pride which had of late piqued Wharton into efforts from which vanity, and, indeed, something
else, could not refrain, if he was to preserve his power.

So she was sitting by the window this afternoon, in a mood which had in it neither simplicity
nor joy. She was conscious of a certain dull and baffled feeling--a sense of humiliation--which
hurt. Moreover, the scene of sordid horror she had gone through haunted her imagination perpetually.
She was unstrung, and the world weighed upon her--the pity, the ugliness, the confusion of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The muslin curtain beside her suddenly swelled out in a draught of air, and she put out her
hand quickly to catch the French window lest it should swing to. Some one had opened the door
of the room.

"Did I blow you out of window?" said a girl's voice; and there behind her, in a half-timid
attitude, stood Betty Macdonald, a vision of white muslin, its frills and capes a little tossed
by the wind, the pointed face and golden hair showing small and elf-like under the big shady hat.

"Oh, do come in!" said Marcella, shyly; "Lady Winterbourne will be in directly."

"So Panton told me," said Betty, sinking down on a high stool beside Marcella's chair, and
taking off her hat; "and Panton doesn't tell me any stories now--I've trained him. I wonder
how many he tells in the day? Don't you think there will be a special little corner of purgatory
for London butlers? I hope Panton will get off easy!"

Then she laid her sharp chin on her tiny hand, and studied Marcella. Miss Boyce was in the
light black dress that Minta approved; her pale face and delicate hands stood out from it with
a sort of noble emphasis. When Betty had first heard of Marcella Boyce as the heroine of a
certain story, she had thought of her as a girl one would like to meet, if only to prick her
somehow for breaking the heart of a good man. Now that she saw her close she felt herself near
to falling in love with her. Moreover, the incident of the fight and of Miss Boyce's share
in it had thrilled a creature all susceptibility and curiosity; and the little merry thing
would sit hushed, looking at the heroine of it, awed by the thought of what a girl only two
years older than herself must have already seen of sin and tragedy, envying her with all her
heart, and by contrast honesty despising--for the moment--that very happy and popular person,
Betty Macdonald!

"Do you like being alone?" she asked Marcella, abruptly.

Marcella coloured.

"Well, I was just getting very tired of my own company," she said. "I was very glad to see
you come in."

"Were you?" said Betty, joyously, with a little gleam in her pretty eyes. Then suddenly the
golden head bent forward. "May I kiss you?" she said, in the wistfullest, eagerest voice.

Marcella smiled, and, laying her hand on Betty's, shyly drew her.

"That's better!" said Betty, with a long breath. "That's the second milestone; the first was
when I saw you on the Terrace. Couldn't you mark all your friendships by little white stones?
I could. But the horrid thing is when you have to mark them back again! Nobody ever did that
with you!"

"Because I have no friends," said Marcella, quickly; then, when Betty clapped her hands in
amazement at such a speech, she added quickly with a smile, "except a few I make poultices for."

"There!" said Betty, enviously, "to think of being really wanted--for poultices--or, anything!
I never was wanted in my life! When I die they'll put on my poor little grave--

  "She's buried here--that hizzie Betty;
  She did na gude--so don't ee fret ye!

"--oh, there they are!"--she ran to the window--"Lady Winterbourne and Ermyntrude. Doesn't
it make you laugh to see Lady Winterbourne doing her duties? She gets into her carriage after
lunch as one might mount a tumbril. I expect to hear her tell the coachman to drive to the
scaffold at Hyde Park Corner.' She looks the unhappiest woman in England--and all the time
Ermyntrude declares she likes it, and wouldn't do without her season for the world! She gives
Ermyntrude a lot of trouble, but she is a dear--a naughty dear--and mothers are such a chance!
Ermyntrude! where did you get that bonnet? You got it without me--and my feelings won't stand it!"

Lady Ermyntrude and Betty threw themselves on a sofa together, chattering and laughing. Lady
Winterbourne came up to Marcella and enquired after her. She was still slowly drawing off her
gloves, when the drawing-room door opened again.

"Tea, Panton!" said Lady Winterbourne, without turning her head, and in the tone of Lady Macbeth.
But the magnificent butler took no notice.

"Lady Selina Farrell!" he announced in a firm voice.

Lady Winterbourne gave a nervous start; then, with the air of a person cut out of wood, made
a slight advance, and held out a limp hand to her visitor.

"Won't you sit down?" she said.

Anybody who did not know her would have supposed that she had never seen Lady Selina before.
In reality she and the Alresfords were cousins. But she did not like Lady Selina, and never
took any pains to conceal it--a fact which did not in the smallest degree interfere with the
younger lady's performance of her family duties.

Lady Selina found a seat with easy aplomb, put up her bejewelled fingers to draw off her veil,
and smilingly prepared herself for tea. She enquired of Betty how she was enjoying herself,
and of Lady Ermyntrude how her husband and baby in the country were getting on without her.
The tone of this last question made the person addressed flush and draw herself up. It was
put as banter, but certainly conveyed that Lady Ermyntrude was neglecting her family for the
sake of dissipations. Betty meanwhile curled herself up in a corner of the sofa, letting one
pretty foot swing over the other, and watching the new-comer with a malicious eye, which instantly
and gleefully perceived that Lady Selina thought her attitude ungraceful.

Marcella, of course, was greeted and condoled with--Lady Selina, however, had seen her since
the tragedy--and then Lady Winterbourne, after every item of her family news, and every symptom
of her own and her husband's health had been rigorously enquired into, began to attempt some
feeble questions of her own--how, for instance, was Lord Alresford's gout?

Lady Selina replied that he was well, but much depressed by the political situation. No doubt
Ministers had done their best, but he thought two or three foolish mistakes had been made during
the session. Certain blunders ought at all hazards to have been avoided. He feared that the
party and the country might have to pay dearly for them. But he had done his best.

Lady Winterbourne, whose eldest son was a junior whip, had been the recipient, since the advent
of the new Cabinet, of so much rejoicing over the final exclusion of "that vain old idiot,
Alresford," from any further chances of muddling a public department, that Lady Selina's talk
made her at once nervous and irritable. She was afraid of being indiscreet; yet she longed
to put her visitor down. In her odd disjointed way, too, she took a real interest in politics.
Her craving idealist nature--mated with a cheery sportsman husband who laughed at her, yet
had made her happy--was always trying to reconcile the ends of eternal justice with the measures
of the Tory party. It was a task of Sisyphus; but she would not let it alone.

"I do not agree with you," she said with cold shyness in answer to Lady Selina's concluding
laments--"I am told--our people say--we are doing very well--except that the session is likely
to be dreadfully long."

Lady Selina raised both her eyebrows and her shoulders.

"Dear Lady Winterbourne! you really mean it?" she said with the indulgent incredulity one shows
to the simple-minded--"But just think! The session will go on, every one says, till quite the
end of September. Isn't that enough of itself to make a party discontented? All our big measures
are in dreadful arrears. And my father believes so much of the friction might have been avoided.
He is all in favour of doing more for Labour. He thinks these Labour men might have been easily
propitiated without anything revolutionary. It's no good supposing that these poor starving
people will wait for ever!"

"Oh!" said Lady Winterbourne, and sat staring at her visitor. To those who knew its author
well, the monosyllable could not have been more expressive. Lady Winterbourne's sense of humour
had no voice, but inwardly it was busy with Lord Alresford as the "friend of the poor." Alresford!--the
narrowest and niggardliest tyrant alive, so far as his own servants and estate were concerned.
And as to Lady Selina, it was well known to the Winterbourne cousinship that she could never
get a maid to stay with her six months.

"What did you think of Mr. Wharton's speech the other night?" said Lady Selina, bending suavely
across the tea-table to Marcella.

"It was very interesting," said Marcella, stiffly--perfectly conscious that the name had pricked
the attention of everybody in the room, and angry with her cheeks for reddening.

"Wasn't it?" said Lady Selina, heartily. "You can't do those things, of course! But you should
show every sympathy to the clever enthusiastic young men--the men like that--shouldn't you?
That's what my father says. He says we've got to win them. We've got somehow to make them feel
us their friends--or we shall all go to ruin! They have the voting power--and we are the party
of education, of refinement. If we can only lead that kind of man to see the essential justice
of our cause--and at the same time give them our help--in reason--show them we want to be their
friends--wouldn't it be best? I don't know whether I put it rightly--you know so much about
these things! But we can't undo '67--can we? We must get round it somehow--mustn't we? And
my father thinks Ministers so unwise! But perhaps"--and Lady Selina drew herself back with
a more gracious smile than ever--"I ought not to be saying these things to you--of course I
know you used to think us Conservatives very bad people--but Mr. Wharton tells me, perhaps
you don't think quite so hardly of us as you used?"

Lady Selina's head in its Paris bonnet fell to one side in a gentle interrogative sort of way.

Something roused in Marcella.

"Our cause?" she repeated, while the dark eye dilated--"I wonder what you mean?"

"Well, I mean--" said Lady Selina, seeking for the harmless word, in the face of this unknown
explosive-looking girl--"I mean, of course, the cause of the educated--of the people who have
made the country."

"I think," said Marcella, quietly, "you mean the cause of the rich, don't you?"

"Marcella!" cried Lady Winterbourne, catching at the tone rather than words--"I thought you
didn't feel like that any more--not about the distance between the poor and the rich--and our
tyranny--and its being hopeless--and the poor always hating us--I thought you changed."

And forgetting Lady Selina, remembering only the old talks at Mellor, Lady Winterbourne bent
forward and laid an appealing hand on Marcella's arm.

Marcella turned to her with an odd look.

"If you only knew," she said, "how much more possible it is to think well of the rich, when
you are living amongst the poor!"

"Ah! you must be at a distance from us to do us justice?" enquired Lady Selina, settling her
bracelets with a sarcastic lip.

"I must," said Marcella, looking, however, not at her, but at Lady Winterbourne. "But then,
you see,"--she caressed her friend's hand with a smile--"it is so easy to throw some people
into opposition!"

"Dreadfully easy!" sighed Lady Winterbourne.

The flush mounted again in the girl's cheek. She hesitated, then felt driven to explanations.

"You see--oddly enough"--she pointed away for an instant to the north-east through the open
window--"it's when I'm over there--among the people who have nothing--that it does me good
to remember that there are persons who live in James Street, Buckingham Gate!"

"My dear! I don't understand," said Lady Winterbourne, studying her with her most perplexed
and tragic air.

"Well, isn't it simple?" said Marcella, still holding her hand and looking up at her. "It comes,
I suppose, of going about all day in those streets and houses, among people who live in one
room--with not a bit of prettiness anywhere--and no place to be alone in, or to rest in. I
come home and gloat over all the beautiful dresses and houses and gardens I can think of!"

"But don't you hate the people that have them?" said Betty, again on her stool, chin in hand.

"No! it doesn't seem to matter to me then what kind of people they are. And I don't so much
want to take from them and give to the others. I only want to be sure that the beauty, and
the leisure, and the freshness are somewhere--not lost out of the world."

"How strange!--in a life like yours--that one should think so much of the ugliness of being
poor--more than of suffering or pain," said Betty, musing.

"Well--in some moods--you do--I do!" said Marcella; "and it is in those moods that I feel least
resentful of wealth. If I say to myself that the people who have all the beauty and the leisure
are often selfish and cruel--after all they die out of their houses and their parks, and their
pictures, in time, like the shell-fish out of its shell. The beauty and the grace which they
created or inherited remain. And why should one be envious of them personally? They have had
the best chances in the world and thrown them away--are but poor animals at the end! At any
rate I can't hate them--they seem to have a function--when I am moving about Drury Lane!" she
added with a smile.

"But how can one help being ashamed?" said Lady Winterbourne, as her eyes wandered over her
pretty room, and she felt herself driven somehow into playing devil's advocate.

"No! No!" said Marcella, eagerly, "don't be ashamed! As to the people who make beauty more
beautiful--who share it and give it--I often feel as if I could say to them on my knees, Never,
never be ashamed merely of being rich--of living with beautiful things, and having time to
enjoy them! One might as well be ashamed of being strong rather than a cripple, or having two
eyes rather than one!"

"Oh, but, my dear!" cried Lady Winterbourne, piteous and bewildered, "when one has all the
beauty and the freedom--and other people must die without any--"

"Oh, I know, I know!" said Marcella, with a quick gesture of despair; "that's what makes the
world the world. And one begins with thinking it can be changed--that it must and shall be
changed!--that everybody could have wealth--could have beauty and rest, and time to think,
that is to say--if things were different--if one could get Socialism--if one could beat down
the capitalist--if one could level down, and level up, till everybody had 200 l. a year. One
turns and fingers the puzzle all day long. It seems so near coming right--one guesses a hundred
ways in which it might be done! Then after a while one stumbles upon doubt--one begins to see
that it never will, never can come right--not in any mechanical way of that sort--that that
isn't what was meant!"

Her voice dropped drearily. Betty Macdonald gazed at her with a girl's nascent adoration. Lady
Winterbourne was looking puzzled and unhappy, but absorbed like Betty in Marcella. Lady Selina,
studying the three with smiling composure, was putting on her veil, with the most careful attention
to fringe and hairpins. As for Ermyntrude, she was no longer on the sofa; she had risen noiselessly,
finger on lip, almost at the beginning of Marcella's talk, to greet a visitor. She and he were
standing at the back of the room, in the opening of the conservatory, unnoticed by any of the
group in the bow window.

"Don't you think," said Lady Selina, airily, her white fingers still busy with her bonnet,
"that it would be a very good thing to send all the Radicals--the well-to-do Radicals I mean--to
live among the poor? It seems to teach people such extremely useful things!"

Marcella straightened herself as though some one had touched her impertinently. She looked
round quickly.

"I wonder what you suppose it teaches?"

"Well," said Lady Selina, a little taken aback and hesitating; "well! I suppose it teaches
a person to be content--and not to cry for the moon!"

"You think," said Marcella, slowly, "that to live among the poor can teach any one--any one
that's human--to be content!"

Her manner had the unconscious intensity of emphasis, the dramatic force that came to her from
another blood than ours. Another woman could hardly have fallen into such a tone without affectation--without
pose. At this moment certainly Betty, who was watching her, acquitted her of either, and warmly
thought her a magnificent creature.

Lady Selina's feeling simply was that she had been roughly addressed by her social inferior.
She drew herself up.

"As I understand you," she said stiffly, "you yourself confessed that to live with poverty
had led you to think more reasonably of wealth."

Suddenly a movement of Lady Ermyntrude's made the speaker turn her head. She saw the pair at
the end of the room, looked astonished, then smiled.

"Why, Mr. Raeburn! where have you been hiding yourself during this great discussion? Most consoling,
wasn't it--on the whole--to us West End people?"

She threw back a keen glance at Marcella. Lady Ermyntrude and Raeburn came forward.

"I made him be quiet," said Ermyntrude, not looking, however, quite at her ease; "it would
have been a shame to interrupt."

"I think so, indeed!" said Lady Selina, with emphasis. "Good-bye, dear Lady Winterbourne; good-bye,
Miss Boyce! You have comforted me very much! Of course one is sorry for the poor; but it is
a great thing to hear from anybody who knows as much about it as you do, that--after all--it
is no crime--to possess a little!"

She stood smiling, looking from the girl to the man--then, escorted by Raeburn in his very
stiffest manner, she swept out of the room.

When Aldous came back, with a somewhat slow and hesitating step, he approached Marcella, who
was standing silent by the window, and asked after the lame arm. He was sorry, he said, to
see that it was still in its sling. His tone was a little abrupt. Only Lady Winterbourne saw
the quick nervousness of the eyes,

"Oh! thank you," said Marcella, coldly, "I shall get back to work next week."

She stooped and took up her book.

"I must please go and write some letters," she said, in answer to Lady Winterbourne's flurried
look.

And she walked away. Betty and Lady Ermyntrude also went to take off their things.

"Aldous!" said Lady Winterbourne, holding out her hand to him.

He took it, glanced unwillingly at her wistful, agitated face, pressed the hand, and let it go.

"Isn't it sad," said his old friend, unable to help herself, "to see her battling like this
with life--with thought--all alone? Isn't it sad, Aldous?"

"Yes," he said. Then, after a pause, "Why doesn't she go home? My patience gives out when I
think of Mrs. Boyce."

"Oh! it isn't Mrs. Boyce's fault," said Lady Winterbourne, hopelessly. "And I don't know why
one should be sorry for her particularly--why one should want her to change her life again.
She does it splendidly. Only I never, never feel that she is a bit happy in it."

It was Hallin's cry over again.

He said nothing for a moment; then he forced a smile.

"Well! neither you nor I can help it, can we?" he said. The grey eyes looked at her steadily--bitterly.
Lady Winterbourne, with the sensation of one who, looking for softness, has lit on granite,
changed the subject.

Meanwhile, Marcella upstairs was walking restlessly up and down. She could hardly keep herself
from rushing off--back to Brown's Buildings at once. He in the room while she was saying those
things! Lady Selina's words burnt in her ears. Her morbid, irritable sense was all one vibration
of pride and revolt. Apology--appeal--under the neatest comedy guise! Of course!--now that
Lord-Maxwell was dying, and the ill-used suitor was so much the nearer to his earldom. A foolish
girl had repented her of her folly--was anxious to make those concerned understand--what more
simple?

Her nerves were strained and out of gear. Tears came in a proud, passionate gush; and she must
needs allow herself the relief of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, Lady Selina had gone home full of new and uncomfortable feelings. She could not
get Marcella Boyce out of her head--neither as she had just seen her, under the wing of "that
foolish woman, Madeleine Winterbourne," nor as she had seen her first, on the terrace with
Harry Wharton. It did not please Lady Selina to feel herself in any way eclipsed or even rivalled
by such an unimportant person as this strange and ridiculous girl. Yet it crossed her mind
with a stab, as she lay resting on the sofa in her little sitting-room before dinner, that
never in all her thirty-five years had any human being looked into her face with the same alternations
of eagerness and satisfied pleasure she had seen on Harry Wharton's, as he and Miss Boyce strolled
the terrace together--nor even with such a look as that silly baby Betty Macdonald had put
on, as she sat on the stool at the heroine's feet.

There was to be a small dinner-party at Alresford House that night. Wharton was to be among
the guests. He was fast becoming one of the habitues of the house, and would often stay behind
to talk to Lady Selina when the guests were gone, and Lord Alresford was dozing peacefully
in a deep arm-chair.

Lady Selina lay still in the evening light, and let her mind, which worked with extraordinary
shrewdness and force in the grooves congenial to it, run over some possibilities of the future.

She was interrupted by the entrance of her maid, who, with the quickened breath and heightened
colour she could not repress when speaking to her formidable mistress, told her that one of
the younger housemaids was very ill. Lady Selina enquired, found that the doctor who always
attended the servants had been sent for, and thought that the illness might turn to rheumatic
fever.

"Oh, send her off to the hospital at once!" said Lady Selina. "Let Mrs. Stewart see Dr. Briggs
first thing in the morning, and make arrangements. You understand?"

The girl hesitated, and the candles she was lighting showed that she had been crying.

"If your ladyship would but let her stay," she said timidly, "we'd all take our turns at nursing
her. She comes from Ireland, perhaps you'll remember, my lady. She's no friends in London,
and she's frightened to death of going to the hospital."

"That's nonsense!" said Lady Selina, sternly. "Do you think I can have all the work of the
house put out because some one is ill? She might die even--one never knows. Just tell Mrs.
Stewart to arrange with her about her wages, and to look out for somebody else at once."

The girl's mouth set sullenly as she went about her work--put out the shining satin dress,
the jewels, the hairpins, the curling-irons, the various powders and cosmetics that were wanted
for Lady Selina's toilette, and all the time there was ringing in her ears the piteous cry
of a little Irish girl, clinging like a child to her only friend: "O Marie! dear Marie! do
get her to let me stay--I'll do everything the doctor tells me--I'll make haste and get well--I'll
give no trouble. And it's all along of the work--and the damp up in these rooms--the doctor
said so."

An hour later Lady Selina was in the stately drawing-room of Alresford House, receiving her
guests. She was out of sorts and temper, and though Wharton arrived in due time, and she had
the prospect to enliven her during dinner--when he was of necessity parted from her by people
of higher rank--of a tête-à-tête with him before the evening was over, the dinner went heavily.
The Duke on her right hand, and the Dean on her left, were equally distasteful to her. Neither
food nor wine had savour; and once, when in an interval of talk she caught sight of her father's
face and form at the further end, growing more vacant and decrepit week by week, she was seized
with a sudden angry pang of revolt and repulsion. Her father wearied and disgusted her. Life
was often triste and dull in the great house. Yet, when the old man should have found his grave,
she would be a much smaller person than she was now, and the days would be so much the more
tedious.

Wharton, too, showed less than his usual animation. She said to herself at dinner that he had
the face of a man in want of sleep. His young brilliant look was somewhat tarnished, and there
was worry in the restless eye. And, indeed, she knew that things had not been going so favourably
for him in the House of late--that the stubborn opposition of the little group of men led by
Wilkins was still hindering that concentration of the party and definition of his own foremost
place in it which had looked so close and probable a few weeks before. She supposed he had
been exhausting himself, too, over that shocking Midland strike. The Clarion had been throwing
itself into the battle of the men with a monstrous violence, for which she had several times
reproached him.

When all the guests had gone but Wharton, and Lord Alresford, duly placed for the sake of propriety
in his accustomed chair, was safely asleep, Lady Selina asked what was the matter.

"Oh, the usual thing!" he said, as he leant against the mantelpiece beside her. "The world's
a poor place, and my doll's stuffed with sawdust. Did you ever know any doll that wasn't?"

She looked up at him a moment without speaking.

"Which means," she said, "that you can't get your way in the House?"

"No," said Wharton, meditatively, looking down at his boots. "No--not yet."

"You think you will get it some day?"

He raised his eyes.

"Oh yes!" he said; "oh dear, yes!--some day."

She laughed.

"You had better come over to us."

"Well, there is always that to think of, isn't there? You can't deny you want all the new blood
you can get!"

"If you only understood your moment and your chance," she said quickly, "you would make the
opportunity and do it at once."

He looked at her aggressively.

"How easy it comes to you Tories to rat!" he said.

"Thank you! it only means that we are the party of common sense. Well, I have been talking
to your Miss Boyce."

He started.

"Where?"

"At Lady Winterbourne's. Aldous Raeburn was there. Your beautiful Socialist was very interesting--and
rather surprising. She talked of the advantages of wealth; said she had been converted--by
living among the poor--had changed her mind, in fact, on many things. We were all much edified--including
Mr. Raeburn. How long do you suppose that business will remain 'off'? To my mind I never saw
a young woman more eager to undo a mistake." Then she added slowly, "The accounts of Lord Maxwell
get more and more unsatisfactory."

Wharton stared at her with sparkling eyes. "How little you know her!" he said, not without
a tone of contempt.

"Oh! very well," said Lady Selina, with the slightest shrug of her white shoulders.

He turned to the mantelpiece and began to play with some ornaments upon it.

"Tell me what she said," he enquired presently.

Lady Selina gave her own account of the conversation. Wharton recovered himself.

"Dear me!" he said, when she stopped. "Yes--well--we may see another act. Who knows? Well,
good-night, Lady Selina."

She gave him her hand with her usual aristocrat's passivity, and he went. But it was late indeed
that night before she ceased to speculate on what the real effect of her words had been upon him.

As for Wharton, on his walk home he thought of Marcella Boyce and of Raeburn with a certain
fever of jealous vanity which was coming, he told himself, dangerously near to passion. He
did not believe Lady Selina, but nevertheless he felt that her news might drive him into rash
steps he could ill afford, and had indeed been doing his best to avoid. Meanwhile it was clear
to him that the mistress of Alresford House had taken an envious dislike to Marcella. How plain
she had looked to-night in spite of her gorgeous dress! and how intolerable Lord Alresford grew!

CHAPTER XII.

But what right had Wharton to be thinking of such irrelevant matters as women and love-making
at all? He had spoken of public worries to Lady Selina. In reality his public prospects in
themselves were, if anything, improved. It was his private affairs that were rushing fast on
catastrophe, and threatening to drag the rest with them.

He had never been so hard pressed for money in his life. In the first place his gambling debts
had mounted up prodigiously of late. His friends were tolerant and easy-going. But the more
tolerant they were the more he was bound to frequent them. And his luck for some time had been
monotonously bad. Before long these debts must be paid, and some of them--to a figure he shrank
from dwelling upon--were already urgent.

Then as to the Clarion, it became every week a heavier burden. The expenses of it were enormous;
the returns totally inadequate. Advertisements were falling off steadily; and whether the working
cost were cut down, or whether a new and good man like Louis Craven, whose letters from the
strike district were being now universally read, were put on, the result financially seemed
to be precisely the same. It was becoming even a desperate question how the weekly expenses
were to be met; so that Wharton's usual good temper now deserted him entirely as soon as he
had crossed the Clarion threshold; bitterness had become the portion of the staff, and even
the office boys walked in gloom.

Yet, at the same time, withdrawing from the business, was almost as difficult as carrying it
on. There were rumours in the air which had, already seriously damaged the paper as a saleable
concern. Wharton, indeed, saw no prospect whatever of selling except at ruinous loss. Meanwhile,
to bring the paper to an abrupt end would have not only precipitated a number of his financial
obligations; it would have been politically, a dangerous confession of failure made at a very
critical moment. For what made the whole thing the more annoying was that the Clarion had never
been so important politically, never so much read by the persons on whom Wharton's parliamentary
future depended, as it was at this moment. The advocacy of the Damesley strike had been so
far a stroke of business for Wharton as a Labour Member.

It was now the seventh week of the strike, and Wharton's "leaders," Craven's letters from the
seat of war, and the Clarion strike fund, which articles and letters had called into existence,
were as vigorous as ever. The struggle itself had fallen into two chapters. In the first the
metal-workers concerned, both men and women, had stood out for the old wages unconditionally
and had stoutly rejected all idea of arbitration. At the end of three or four weeks, however,
when grave suffering had declared itself among an already half-starved population, the workers
had consented to take part in the appointment of a board of conciliation. This board, including
the workmen's delegates, overawed by the facts of foreign competition as they were disclosed
by the masters, recommended terms which would have amounted to a victory for the employers.

The award was no sooner known in the district than the passionate indignation of the great
majority of the workers knew no bounds. Meetings were held everywhere; the men's delegates
at the board were thrown over, and Craven, who with his new wife was travelling incessantly
over the whole strike area, wrote a letter to the Clarion on the award which stated the men's
case with extreme ability, was immediately backed up by Wharton in a tremendous "leader," and
was received among the strikers with tears almost of gratitude and enthusiasm.

Since then all negotiations had been broken off. The Clarion had gone steadily against the
masters, against the award, against further arbitration. The theory of the "living wage," of
which more recent days have heard so much, was preached in other terms, but with equal vigour;
and the columns of the Clarion bore witness day by day in the long lists of subscriptions to
the strike fund, to the effects of its eloquence on the hearts and pockets of Englishmen.

Meanwhile there were strange rumours abroad. It was said that the trade was really on the eve
of a complete and striking revolution in its whole conditions--could this labour war be only
cleared out of the way. The smaller employers had been for long on the verge of ruin; and the
larger men, so report had it, were scheming a syndicate on the American plan to embrace the
whole industry, cut down the costs of production, and regulate the output.

But for this large capital would be wanted. Could capital be got? The state of things in the
trade, according to the employers, had been deplorable for years; a large part of the market
had been definitely forfeited, so they declared, for good, to Germany and Belgium. It would
take years before even a powerful syndicate could work itself into a thoroughly sound condition.
Let the men accept the award of the conciliation board; let there be some stable and reasonable
prospect of peace between masters and men, say, for a couple of years; and a certain group
of bankers would come forward; and all would be well. The men under the syndicate would in
time get more than their old wage. But the award first; otherwise the plan dropped, and the
industry must go its own way to perdition.

"'Will you walk into my parlour?'" said Wharton, scornfully, to the young Conservative member
who, with a purpose, was explaining these things to him in the library of the House of Commons,
"the merest trap! and, of course, the men will see it so. Who is to guarantee them even the
carrying through, much less the success, of your precious syndicate? And, in return for your
misty millennium two years hence, the men are to join at once in putting the employers in a
stronger position than ever? Thank you! The 'rent of ability' in the present state of things
is, no doubt, large. But in this particular case the Clarion will go on doing its best--I promise
you--to nibble some of it away!"

The Conservative member rose in indignation.

"I should be sorry to have as many starving people on my conscience as you'll have before long!"
he said as he took up his papers.

At that moment Denny's rotund and square-headed figure passed along the corridor, to which
the library door stood open.

"Well, if I thrive upon it as well as Denny does, I shall do!" returned Wharton, with his usual
caustic good-humour, as his companion departed.

And it delighted him to think as he walked home that Denny, who had again of late made himself
particularly obnoxious in the House of Commons, on two or three occasions, to the owner of
the Clarion, had probably instigated the quasi-overtures he had just rejected, and must be
by now aware of their result.

Then he sent for Craven to come and confer with him.

Craven accordingly came up from the Midlands, pale, thin, and exhausted, with the exertions
and emotions of seven weeks' incessant labour. Yet personally Wharton found him, as before,
dry and unsympathetic; and disliked him, and his cool, ambiguous manner, more than ever. As
to the strike, however, they came to a complete understanding. The Clarion, or rather the Clarion
fund, which was doing better and better, held the key of the whole situation. If that fund
could be maintained, the men could hold out. In view of the possible formation of the syndicate,
Craven denounced the award with more fierceness than ever, maintaining the redoubled importance
of securing the men's terms before the syndicate was launched. Wharton promised him with glee
that he should be supported to the bitter end.

If, that is to say--a proviso he did not discuss with Craven--the Clarion itself could be kept
going. In August a large sum, obtained two years before on the security of new "plant," would
fall due. The time for repayment had already been extended; and Wharton had ascertained that
no further extension was possible.

Well! bankruptcy would be a piquant interlude in his various social and political enterprises!
How was it to be avoided? He had by now plenty of rich friends in the City or elsewhere, but
none, as he finally decided, likely to be useful to him at the present moment. For the amount
of money that he required was large--larger, indeed, than he cared to verify with any strictness,
and the security that he could offer, almost nil.

As to friends in the City, indeed, the only excursion of a business kind that he had made into
those regions since his election was now adding seriously to his anxieties--might very well
turn out, unless the matter were skilfully managed, to be one of the blackest spots on his horizon.

In the early days of his parliamentary life, when, again, mostly for the Clarion's sake, money
happened to be much wanted, he had become director of what promised to be an important company,
through the interest and good nature of a new and rich acquaintance, who had taken a liking
to the young member. The company had been largely "boomed," and there had been some very profitable
dealing in the original shares. Wharton had made two or three thousand pounds, and contributed
both point and finish to some of the early prospectuses.

Then, after six months, he had withdrawn from the Board, under apprehensions that had been
gradually realised with alarming accuracy. Things, indeed, had been going very wrong indeed;
there were a number of small investors; and the annual meeting of the company, to be held now
in some ten days, promised a storm. Wharton discovered, partly to his own amazement, for he
was a man who quickly forgot, that during his directorate he had devised or sanctioned matters
that were not at all likely to commend themselves to the shareholders, supposing the past were
really sifted. The ill-luck of it was truly stupendous; for on the whole he had kept himself
financially very clean since he had become a member; having all through a jealous eye to his
political success.

       *       *       *       *       *

As to the political situation, nothing could be at once more promising or more anxious!

An important meeting of the whole Labour group had been fixed for August 10, by which time
it was expected that a great measure concerning Labour would be returned from the House of
Lords with highly disputable amendments. The last six weeks of the session would be in many
ways more critical for Labour than its earlier months had been; and it would be proposed by
Bennett, at the meeting on the 10th, to appoint a general chairman of the party, in view of
a campaign which would fill the remainder of the session and strenuously occupy the recess.

That Bennett would propose the name of the member for West Brookshire was perfectly well known
to Wharton and his friends. That the nomination would meet with the warmest hostility from
Wilkins and a small group of followers was also accurately forecast.

To this day, then, Wharton looked forward as to the crisis of his parliamentary fortunes. All
his chances, financial or social, must now be calculated with reference to it. Every power,
whether of combat or finesse, that he commanded must be brought to bear upon the issue.

What was, however, most remarkable in the man and the situation at the moment was that, through
all these gathering necessities, he was by no means continuously anxious or troubled in his
mind. During these days of July he gave himself, indeed, whenever he could, to a fatalist oblivion
of the annoyances of life, coupled with a passionate pursuit of all those interests where his
chances were still good and the omens still with him.

Especially--during the intervals of ambition, intrigue, journalism, and unsuccessful attempts
to raise money--had he meditated the beauty of Marcella Boyce and the chances and difficulties
of his relation to her. As he saw her less, he thought of her more, instinctively looking to
her for the pleasure and distraction that life was temporarily denying him elsewhere.

At the same time, curiously enough, the stress of his financial position was reflected even
in what, to himself, at any rate, he was boldly beginning to call his "passion" for her. It
had come to his knowledge that Mr. Boyce had during the past year succeeded beyond all expectation
in clearing the Mellor estate. He had made skilful use of a railway lately opened on the edge
of his property; had sold building land in the neighbourhood of a small country town on the
line, within a convenient distance of London; had consolidated and improved several of his
farms and relet them at higher rents; was, in fact, according to Wharton's local informant,
in a fair way to be some day, if he lived, quite as prosperous as his grandfather, in spite
of old scandals and invalidism. Wharton knew, or thought he knew, that he would not live, and
that Marcella would be his heiress. The prospect was not perhaps brilliant, but it was something;
it affected the outlook.

Although, however, this consideration counted, it was, to do him justice, Marcella, the creature
herself, that he desired. But for her presence in his life he would probably have gone heiress-hunting
with the least possible delay. As it was, his growing determination to win her, together with
his advocacy of the Damesley workers--amply sufficed, during the days that followed his evening
talk with Lady Selina, to maintain his own illusions about himself and so to keep up the zest
of life.

Yes!--to master and breathe passion into Marcella Boyce, might safely be reckoned on, he thought,
to hurry a man's blood. And after it had gone so far between them--after he had satisfied himself
that her fancy, her temper, her heart, were all more or less occupied with him--was he to see
her tamely recovered by Aldous Raeburn--by the man whose advancing parliamentary position was
now adding fresh offence to the old grievance and dislike? No! not without a dash--a throw for it!

For a while, after Lady Selina's confidences, jealous annoyance, together with a certain reckless
state of nerves, turned him almost into the pining lover. For he could not see Marcella. She
came no more to Mrs. Lane; and the house in James Street was not open to him. He perfectly
understood that the Winterbournes did not want to know him.

At last Mrs. Lane, a shrewd little woman with a half contemptuous liking for Wharton, let him
know--on the strength of a chance meeting with Lady Ermyntrude--that the Winterbournes would
be at the Masterton party on the 26th. They had persuaded Miss Boyce to stay for it, and she
would go back to her work the Monday after. Wharton carelessly replied that he did not know
whether he would be able to put in an appearance at the Mastertons'. He might be going out of town.

Mrs. Lane looked at him and said, "Oh, really!" with a little laugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lady Masterton was the wife of the Colonial Secretary, and her grand mansion in Grosvenor Square
was the principal rival to Alresford House in the hospitalities of the party. Her reception
on July 25 was to be the last considerable event of a protracted but now dying season. Marcella,
detained in James Street day after day against her will by the weakness of the injured arm
and the counsels of her doctor, had at last extracted permission to go back to work on the
27th; and to please Betty Macdonald she had promised to go with the Winterbournes to the Masterton
party on the Saturday. Betty's devotion, shyly as she had opened her proud heart to it, had
begun to mean a good deal to her. There was balm in it for many a wounded feeling; and, besides,
there was the constant, half eager, half painful interest of watching Betty's free and childish
ways with Aldous Raeburn, and of speculating upon what would ultimately come out of them.

So, when Betty first demanded to know what she was going to wear, and then pouted over the
dress shown her, Marcella submitted humbly to being "freshened up" at the hands of Lady Ermyntrude's
maid, bought what Betty told her, and stood still while Betty, who had a genius for such things,
chattered, and draped, and suggested.

"I wouldn't make you fashionable for the world!" cried Betty, with a mouthful of pins, laying
down masterly folds of lace and chiffon the while over the white satin with which Marcella
had provided her. "What was it Worth said to me the other day?--Ce qu'on porte, Mademoiselle?
But distinguished you shall be, if I sit up all night to think it out!"

In the end Betty was satisfied, and could hardly be prevented from hugging Marcella there and
then, out of sheer delight in her own handiwork, when at last the party emerged from the cloak-room
into the Mastertons' crowded hall. Marcella too felt pleasure in the reflections of herself
as they passed up the lavishly bemirrored staircase. The chatter about dress in which she had
been living for some days had amused and distracted her; for there were great feminine potentialities
in her; though for eighteen months she had scarcely given what she wore a thought, and in her
pre-nursing days had been wont to waver between a kind of proud neglect, which implied the
secret consciousness of beauty, and an occasional passionate desire to look well. So that she
played her part to-night very fairly; pinched Betty's arm to silence the elf's tongue; and
held herself up as she was told, that Betty's handiwork might look its best. But inwardly the
girl's mood was very tired and flat. She was pining for her work; pining even for Minta Hurd's
peevish look, and the children to whom she was so easily an earthly providence.

In spite of the gradual emptying of London, Lady Masterton's rooms were very full. Marcella
found acquaintances. Many of the people whom she had met at Mrs. Lane's, the two Cabinet Ministers
of the House of Commons dinner, Mr. Lane himself--all were glad or eager to recall themselves
to her as she stood by Lady Winterbourne, or made her way half absently through the press.
She talked, without shyness--she had never been shy, and was perhaps nearer now to knowing
what it might mean than she had been as a schoolgirl--but without heart; her black eye wandering
meanwhile, as though in quest. There was a gay sprinkling of uniforms in the crowd, for the
Speaker was holding a levée, and as it grew late his guests began to set towards Lady Masterton.
Betty, who had been turning up her nose at the men she had so far smiled upon, all of whom
she declared were either bald or seventy, was a little propitiated by the uniforms; otherwise,
she pronounced the party very dull.

"Well, upon my word!" she cried suddenly, in a tone that made Marcella turn upon her. The child
was looking very red and very upright--was using her fan with great vehemence, and Frank Leven
was humbly holding out his hand to her.

"I don't like being startled," said Betty, pettishly. "Yes, you did startle me--you did--you
did! And then you begin to contradict before I've said a word! I'm sure you've been contradicting
all the way upstairs--and why don't you say 'How do you do?' to Miss Boyce?"

Frank, looking very happy, but very nervous, paid his respects rather bashfully to Marcella--she
laughed to see how Betty's presence subdued him--and then gave himself up wholly to Betty's
tender mercies.

Marcella observed them with an eager interest she could not wholly explain to herself. It was
clear that all thought of anything or anybody else had vanished for Frank Leven at the sight
of Betty. Marcella guessed, indeed knew, that they had not met for some little time; and she
was touched by the agitation and happiness on the boy's handsome face. But Betty? what was
the secret of her kittenish, teasing ways--or was there any secret? She held her little head
very high and chattered very fast--but it was not the same chatter that she gave to Marcella,
nor, so far as Marcella could judge, to Aldous Raeburn. New elements of character came out
in it. It was self-confident, wilful, imperious. Frank was never allowed to have an opinion;
was laughed at before his words were out of his mouth; was generally heckled, played with,
and shaken in a way which seemed alternately to enrage and enchant him. In the case of most
girls, such a manner would have meant encouragement; but, as it was Betty, no one could be
sure. The little thing was a great puzzle to Marcella, who had found unexpected reserves in
her. She might talk of her love affairs to Aldous Raeburn; she had done nothing of the sort
with her new friend. And in such matters Marcella herself was far more reserved than most modern
women.

"Betty!" cried Lady Winterbourne, "I am going on into the next room."

Then in a lower tone she said helplessly to Marcella:

"Do make her come on!"

Marcella perceived that her old friend was in a fidget. Stooping her tall head, she said with
a smile:

"But look how she is amusing herself!"

"My dear!--that's just it! If you only knew how her mother--tiresome woman--has talked to me!
And the young man has behaved so beautifully till now--has given neither Ermyntrude nor me
any trouble."

Was that why Betty was leading him such a life? Marcella wondered,--then suddenly--was seized
with a sick distaste for the whole scene--for Betty's love affairs--for her own interest in
them--for her own self and personality above all. Her great black eyes gazed straight before
them, unseeing, over the crowd, the diamonds, the lights; her whole being gave itself to a
quick, blind wrestle with some vague overmastering pain, some despair of life and joy to which
she could give no name.

She was roused by Betty's voice:

"Mr. Raeburn! will you tell me who people are? Mr. Leven's no more use than my fan. Just imagine--I
asked him who that lady in the tiara is--and he vows he doesn't know! Why, it just seems that
when you go to Oxford, you leave the wits you had before, behind! And then--of course"--Betty
affected a delicate hesitation--"there's the difficulty of being quite sure that you'll ever
get any new ones!--But there--look!--I'm in despair!--she's vanished--and I shall never know!"

"One moment!" said Raeburn, smiling, "and I will take you in pursuit. She has only gone into
the tea-room."

His hand touched Marcella's.

"Just a little better," he said, with a sudden change of look, in answer to Lady Winterbourne's
question. "The account to-night is certainly brighter. They begged me not to come, or I should
have been off some days ago. And next week, I am thankful to say, they will be home."

Why should she be standing there, so inhumanly still and silent?--Marcella asked herself. Why
not take courage again--join in--talk--show sympathy? But the words died on her lips. After
to-night--thank heaven!--she need hardly see him again.

He asked after herself as usual. Then, just as he was turning away with Betty, he came back
to her, unexpectedly.

"I should like to tell you about Hallin," he said gently. "His sister writes to me that she
is happier about him, and that she hopes to be able to keep him away another fortnight. They
are at Keswick."

For an instant there was pleasure in the implication of common ground, a common interest--here
if no-where else. Then the pleasure was lost in the smart of her own strange lack of self-government
as she made a rather stupid and awkward reply.

Raeburn's eyes rested on her for a moment. There was in them a flash of involuntary expression,
which she did not notice--for she had turned away--which no one saw--except Betty. Then the
child followed him to the tea-room, a little pale and pensive.

Marcella looked after them.

In the midst of the uproar about her, the babel of talk fighting against the Hungarian band,
which was playing its wildest and loudest in the tea-room, she was overcome by a sudden rush
of memory. Her eyes were tracing the passage of those two figures through the crowd; the man
in his black court suit, stooping his refined and grizzled head to the girl beside him, or
turning every now and then to greet an acquaintance, with the manner--cordial and pleasant,
yet never quite gay even when he smiled--that she, Marcella, had begun to notice of late as
a new thing; the girl lifting her small face to him, the gold of her hair showing against his
velvet sleeve. But the inward sense was busy with a number of other impressions, past, and,
as it now seemed, incredible.

The little scene when Aldous had given her the pearls, returned so long ago--why! she could
see the fire blazing in the Stone Parlour, feel his arm about her!--the drive home after the
Gairsley meeting--that poignant moment in his sitting-room the night of the ball--his face,
his anxious, tender face, as she came down the wide stairs of the Court towards him on that
terrible evening when she pleaded with him and his grandfather in vain:--had these things,
incidents, relations, been ever a real part of the living world? Impossible! Why, there he
was--not ten yards from her--and yet more irrevocably separate from her than if the Sahara
stretched between them. The note of cold distance in his courteous manner put her further from
him than the merest stranger.

Marcella felt a sudden terror rush through her as she blindly followed Lady Winterbourne; her
limbs trembled under her; she took advantage of a conversation between her companion and the
master of the house to sink down for a moment on a settee, where she felt out of sight and notice.

What was this intolerable sense of loss and folly, this smarting emptiness, this rage with
herself and her life? She only knew that whereas the touch, the eye of Aldous Raeburn had neither
compelled nor thrilled her, so long as she possessed his whole heart and life--now--that she
had no right to either look or caress; now that he had ceased even to regard her as a friend,
and was already perhaps making up that loyal and serious mind of his to ask from another woman
the happiness she had denied him; now, when it was absurdly too late, she could--

Could what? Passionate, wilful creature that she was!--with that breath of something wild and
incalculable surging through the inmost places of the soul, she went through a moment of suffering
as she sat pale and erect in her corner--brushed against by silks and satins, chattered across
by this person and that--such as seemed to bruise all the remaining joy and ease out of life.

But only a moment! Flesh and blood rebelled. She sprang up from her seat; told herself that
she was mad or ill; caught sight of Mr. Lane coming towards them, and did her best by smile
and greeting to attract him to her.

"You look very white, my dear Miss Boyce," said that cheerful and fatherly person. "Is it that
tiresome arm still? Now, don't please go and be a heroine any more!"

CHAPTER XIII.

Meanwhile, in the tea-room, Betty was daintily sipping her claret-cup, while Aldous stood by her.

"No," said Betty, calmly, looking straight at the lady in the tiara who was standing by the
buffet, "she's not beautiful, and I've torn my dress running after her. There's only one beautiful
person here to-night!"

Aldous found her a seat, and took one himself beside her, in a corner out of the press. But
he did not answer her remark.

"Don't you think so, Mr. Aldous?" said Betty, persisting, but with a little flutter of the pulse.

"You mean Miss Boyce?" he said quietly, as he turned to her.

"Of course!" cried Betty, with a sparkle in her charming eyes; "what is it in her face? It
excites me to be near her. One feels that she will just have lived twice as much as the rest
of us by the time she comes to the end. You don't mind my talking of her, Mr. Aldous?"

There was an instant's silence on his part. Then he said in a constrained voice, looking away
from his companion, "I don't mind it, but I am not going to pretend to you that I find it easy
to talk of her."

"It would be a shame of you to pretend anything," said Betty, fervently, "after all I've told
you! I confessed all my scrapes to you, turned out all my rubbish bag of a heart--well, nearly
all"--she checked herself with a sudden flush--"And you've been as kind to me as any big brother
could be. But you're dreadfully lofty, Mr. Aldous! You keep yourself to yourself. I don't think
it's fair!"

Aldous laughed.

"My dear Miss Betty, haven't you found out by now that I am a good listener and a bad talker?
I don't talk of myself or"--he hesitated--"the things that have mattered most to me--because,
in the first place, it doesn't come easy to me--and, in the next, I can't, you see, discuss
my own concerns without discussing other people's."

"Oh, good gracious!" said Betty, "what you must have been thinking about me! I declare I'll
never tell you anything again!"--and, beating her tiny foot upon the ground, she sat, scarlet,
looking down at it.

Aldous made all the smiling excuses he could muster. He had found Betty a most beguiling and
attaching little companion, both at the Court in the Easter recess, and during the Italian
journey. Her total lack of reserve, or what appeared so, had been first an amazement to him,
and then a positive pleasure and entertainment. To make a friend of him--difficult and scrupulous
as he was, and now more than ever--a woman must be at the cost of most of the advances. But,
after the first evening with him, Betty had made them in profusion, without the smallest demur,
though perfectly well aware of her mother's ambitions. There was a tie of cousinship between
them, and a considerable difference of age. Betty had decided at once that a mother was a dear
old goose, and that great friends she and Aldous Raeburn should be--and, in a sense, great
friends they were.

Aldous was still propitiating her, when Lady Winterbourne came into the tea-room, followed
by Marcella. The elder lady threw a hurried and not very happy glance at the pair in the corner.
Marcella appeared to be in animated talk with a young journalist whom Raeburn knew, and did
not look their way.

"Just one thing!" said Betty, bending forward and speaking eagerly in Aldous's ear. "It was
all a mistake--wasn't it? Now I know her I feel sure it was. You don't--you don't--really think
badly of her?"

Aldous heard her unwillingly. He was looking away from her towards the buffet, when she saw
a change in the eyes--a tightening of the lip--a something keen and hostile in the whole face.

"Perhaps Miss Boyce will be less of a riddle to all of us before long!" he said hastily, as
though the words escaped him. "Shall we get out of this very uncomfortable corner?"

Betty looked where he had looked, and saw a young man greeting Marcella with a manner so emphatic
and intimate, that the journalist had instantly moved out of his way. The young man had a noticeable
pile of fair curls above a very white and rounded forehead.

"Who is that talking to Miss Boyce?" she asked of Aldous; "I have seen him, but I can't remember
the name."

"That is Mr. Wharton, the member for one of our divisions," said Aldous, as he rose from his chair.

Betty gave a little start, and her brow puckered into a frown. As she too rose, she said resentfully
to Aldous:

"Well, you have snubbed me!"

As usual, he could not find the effective or clever thing to say.

"I did not mean to," he replied simply; but Betty, glancing at him, saw something in his face
which gripped her heart. A lump rose in her throat.

"Do let's go and find Ermyntrude!" she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Wharton had barely begun his talk with Marcella when a gentleman, on his way to the buffet
with a cup to set down, touched him on the arm. Wharton turned in some astonishment and annoyance.
He saw a youngish, good-looking man, well known to him as already one of the most important
solicitors in London, largely trusted by many rich or eminent persons.

"May I have a word with you presently?" said Mr. Pearson, in a pleasant undertone. "I have
something of interest to say to you, and it occurred to me that I might meet you to-night.
Excuse my interrupting you."

He glanced with admiration at Marcella, who had turned away.

Wharton had a momentary qualm. Then it struck him that Mr. Pearson's manner was decidedly friendly.

"In a moment," he said. "We might find a corner, I think, in that further room."

He made a motion of the head towards a little boudoir which lay beyond the tea-room.

Mr. Pearson nodded and passed on.

Wharton returned to Marcella, who had fallen back on Frank Leven. At the approach of the member
for West Brookshire, Lady Winterbourne and her daughter had moved severely away to the further
end of the buffet.

"A tiresome man wants me on business for a moment," he said; then he dropped his voice a little;
"but I have been looking forward to this evening, this chance, for days--shall I find you here
again in five minutes?"

Marcella, who had flushed brightly, said that would depend on the time and Lady Winterbourne.
He hurried away with a little gesture of despair. Frank followed him with a sarcastic eye.

"Any one would think he was prime minister already! I never met him yet anywhere that he hadn't
some business on hand. Why does he behave as though he had the world on his shoulders? Your
real swells always seem to have nothing to do."

"Do you know so many busy people?" Marcella asked him sweetly.

"Oh, you shan't put me down, Miss Boyce!" said the boy, sulkily thrusting his hands into his
pockets. "I am going to work like blazes this winter, if only my dons will let a fellow alone.
I say, isn't she ripping to-night--Betty?"

And, pulling his moustache in helpless jealousy and annoyance, he stared at the Winterbourne
group across the room, which had been now joined by Aldous Raeburn and Betty, standing side
by side.

"What do you want me to say?" said Marcella, with a little cold laugh. "I shall make you worse
if I praise her. Please put my cup down."

At the same moment she saw Wharton coming back to her--Mr. Pearson behind him, smiling, and
gently twirling the seals of his watch-chain. She was instantly struck by Wharton's look of
excitement, and by the manner in which--with a momentary glance aside at the Winterbourne party--he
approached her.

"There is such a charming little room in there," he said, stooping his head to her, "and so
cool after this heat. Won't you try it?"

The energy of his bright eye took possession of her. He led the way; she followed. Her dress
almost brushed Aldous Raeburn as she passed.

He took her into a tiny room. There was no one else there, and he found a seat for her by an
open window, where they were almost hidden from view by a stand of flowers.

As he sat down again by her, she saw that a decisive moment had come, and blanched almost to
the colour of her dress. Oh! what to do! Her heart cried out vaguely to some power beyond itself
for guidance, then gave itself up again to the wayward thirst for happiness.

He took her hand strongly in both his own, and bending towards her as she sat bowered among
the scent and colours of the flowers, he made her a passionate declaration. From the first
moment that he had seen her under the Chiltern beeches, so he vowed, he had felt in her the
supreme, incomparable attraction which binds a man to one woman, and one only. His six weeks
under her father's roof had produced in him feelings which he knew to be wrong, without thereby
finding in himself any power to check them. They had betrayed him into a mad moment, which
he had regretted bitterly because it had given her pain. Otherwise--his voice dropped and shook,
his hand pressed hers--"I lived for months on the memory of that one instant." But he had respected
her suffering, her struggle, her need for rest of mind and body. For her sake he had gone away
into silence; he had put a force upon himself which had alone enabled him to get through his
parliamentary work.

Then, with his first sight of her in that little homely room and dress--so changed, but so
lovely!--everything--admiration, passion--had revived with double strength. Since that meeting
he must have often puzzled her, as he had puzzled himself. His life had been a series of perplexities.
He was not his own master; he was the servant of a cause, in which--however foolishly a mocking
habit might have led him at times to be-little his own enthusiasms and hers--his life and honour
were engaged; and this cause and his part in it had been for long hampered, and all his clearness
of vision and judgment dimmed by the pressure of a number of difficulties and worries he could
not have discussed with her--worries practical and financial, connected with the Clarion, with
the experiments he had been carrying out on his estate, and with other troublesome matters.
He had felt a thousand times that his fortunes, political or private, were too doubtful and
perilous to allow him to ask any woman to share them.--Then, again, he had seen her--and his
resolution, his scruple, had melted in his breast!

Well! there were still troubles in front! But he was no longer cowed by them. In spite of them,
he dared now to throw himself at her feet, to ask her to come and share a life of combat and
of labour, to bring her beauty and her mind to the joint conduct of a great enterprise. To
her a man might show his effort and his toil,--from her he might claim a sympathy it would
be vain to ask of any smaller woman.

Then suddenly he broke down. Speech seemed to fail him. Only his eyes--more intense and piercing
under their straight brows than she had ever known them--beseeched her--his hand sought hers.

She meanwhile sat in a trance of agitation, mistress neither of reason nor of feeling. She
felt his spell, as she had always done. The woman in her thrilled at last to the mere name
and neighbourhood of love. The heart in her cried out that pain and loss could only be deadened
so--the past could only be silenced by filling the present with movement and warm life.

Yet what tremors of conscience--what radical distrust of herself and him! And the first articulate
words she found to say to him were very much what she had said to Aldous so long ago--only
filled with a bitterer and more realised content.

"After all, what do we know of each other! You don't know me--not as I am. And I feel--"

"Doubts?" he said, smiling. "Do you imagine that that seems anything but natural to me? I can
have none; but you--After all, we are not quite boy and girl, you and I; we have lived, both
of us! But ask yourself--has not destiny brought us together? Think of it all!"

Their eyes met again. Hers sank under the penetration, the flame of his. Yet, throughout, he
was conscious of the doorway to his right, of the figures incessantly moving across it. His
own eloquence had convinced and moved himself abundantly. Yet, as he saw her yielding, he was
filled with the strangest mixture of passion--and a sort of disillusion--almost contempt! If
she had turned from him with the dignity worthy of that head and brow, it flashed across him
that he could have tasted more of the abandonment of love--have explored his own emotion more
perfectly.

Still, the situation was poignant enough--in one sense complete. Was Raeburn still there--in
that next room?

"My answer?" he said to her, pressing her hand as they sat in the shelter of the flowers. For
he was aware of the practical facts--the hour, the place--if she was not.

She roused herself.

"I can't," she said, making a movement to rise, which his strong grasp, however, prevented.
"I can't answer you to-night, Mr. Wharton. I should have much to think over--so much! It might
all look quite different to me. You must give me time."

"To-morrow?" he said quietly.

"No!" she said impetuously, "not to-morrow; I go back to my work, and I must have quiet and
time. In a fortnight--not before. I will write."

"Oh, impossible!" he said, with a little frown.

And still holding her, he drew her towards him. His gaze ran over the face, the warm whiteness
under the lace of the dress, the beautiful arms. She shrank from it--feeling a sudden movement
of dislike and fear; but before she could disengage herself he had pressed his lips on the
arm nearest to him.

"I gave you no leave!" she said passionately, under her breath, as he let her go.

He met her flashing look with tender humbleness.

"Marcella!"

The word was just breathed into the air. She wavered--yet a chill had passed over her. She
could not recover the moment of magic.

"Not to-morrow," she repeated steadily, though dreading lest she should burst into tears, "and
not till I see clearly--till I can--" She caught her breath. "Now I am going back to Lady Winterbourne."

CHAPTER XIV.

For some hours after he reached his own room, Wharton sat in front of his open window, sunk
in the swift rushing of thought, as a bramble sways in a river. The July night first paled,
then flushed into morning; the sun rose above the empty street and the light mists enwrapping
the great city, before he threw himself on his bed, exhausted enough at last to fall into a
restless sleep.

The speculation of those quick-pulsed hours was in the end about equally divided between Marcella
and the phrases and turns of his interview with Mr. Pearson. It was the sudden leap of troubled
excitement stirred in him by that interview--heightened by the sight of Raeburn--that had driven
him past recall by the most natural of transitions, into his declaration to Marcella.

But he had no sooner reached his room than, at first with iron will, he put the thought of
Marcella, of the scene which had just passed, away from him. His pulses were still quivering.
No matter! It was the brain he had need of. He set it coolly and keenly to work.

Mr. Pearson? Well!--Mr. Pearson had offered him a bribe; there could be no question as to that.
His clear sense never blinked the matter for an instant. Nor had he any illusions as to his
own behaviour. Even now he had no further right to the sleep of the honest man.

Let him realise, however, what had happened. He had gone to Lady Masterton's party, in the
temper of a man who knows that ruin is upon him, and determined, like the French criminal,
to exact his cigar and eau de vie before the knife falls. Never had things looked so desperate;
never had all resource seemed to him so completely exhausted. Bankruptcy must come in the course
of a few weeks; his entailed property would pass into the hands of a receiver; and whatever
recovery might be ultimately possible, by the end of August he would be, for the moment, socially
and politically undone.

There could be no question of his proposing seriously to Marcella Boyce. Nevertheless, he had
gone to Lady Masterton's on purpose to meet her; and his manner on seeing her had asserted
precisely the same intimate claim upon her, which, during the past six weeks, had alternately
attracted and repelled her.

Then Mr. Pearson had interrupted.

Wharton, shutting his eyes, could see the great man lean against the window-frame close to
the spot where, a quarter of an hour later, Marcella had sat among the flowers--the dapper
figure, the long, fair moustaches, the hand playing with the eye-glass.

"I have been asked--er--er--" What a conceited manner the fellow had!--"to get some conversation
with you, Mr. Wharton, on the subject of the Damesley strike. You give me leave?"

Whereupon, in less than ten minutes, the speaker had executed an important commission, and,
in offering Wharton a bribe of the most bare-faced kind, had also found time for supplying
him with a number of the most delicate and sufficient excuses for taking it.

The masters, in fact, sent an embassy. They fully admitted the power of the Clarion and its
owner. No doubt, it would not be possible for the paper to keep up its strike fund indefinitely;
there were perhaps already signs of slackening. Still it had been maintained for a considerable
time; and so long as it was reckoned on, in spite of the wide-spread misery and suffering now
prevailing, the men would probably hold out.

In these circumstances, the principal employers concerned had thought it best to approach so
formidable an opponent and to put before him information which might possibly modify his action.
They had authorised Mr. Pearson to give him a full account of what was proposed in the way
of re-organisation of the trade, including the probable advantages which the work-people themselves
would be likely to reap from it in the future.

Mr. Pearson ran in a few sentences through the points of the scheme. Wharton stood about a
yard away from him, his hands in his pockets, a little pale and frowning--looking intently
at the speaker.

Then Mr. Pearson paused and cleared his throat.

Well!--that was the scheme. His principals believed that, when both it and the employers' determination
to transfer their business to the Continent rather than be beaten by the men were made fully
known to the owner of the Clarion, it must affect his point of view. Mr. Pearson was empowered
to give him any details he might desire. Meanwhile--so confident were they in the reasonableness
of the case that they even suggested that the owner of the Clarion himself should take part
in the new Syndicate. On condition of his future co-operation--it being understood that the
masters took their stand irrevocably on the award--the men at present responsible for the formation
of the Syndicate proposed to allot Mr. Wharton ten Founder's Shares in the new undertaking.

Wharton, sitting alone, recalling these things, was conscious again of that start in every
limb, that sudden rush of blood to the face, as though a lash had struck him.

For in a few seconds his mind took in the situation. Only the day before, a city acquaintance
had said to him, "If you and your confounded paper were out of the way, and this thing could
be placed properly on the market, there would be a boom in it at once. I am told that in twenty-four
hours the Founder's Shares would be worth 2,000 l. apiece!"

There was a pause of silence. Then Wharton threw a queer dark look at the solicitor, and was
conscious that his pulse was thumping.

"There can be no question I think, Mr. Pearson--between you and me--as to the nature of such
a proposal as that!"

"My dear sir," Mr. Pearson had interrupted hastily, "let me, above all, ask you to take time--time
enough, at any rate, to turn the matter well over in your mind. The interests of a great many
people, besides yourself, are concerned. Don't give me an answer to-night; it is the last thing
I desire. I have thrown out my suggestion. Consider it. To-morrow is Sunday. If you are disposed
to carry it further, come and see me Monday morning--that's all. I will be at your service
at any hour, and I can then give you a much more complete outline of the intentions of the
Company. Now I really must go and look for Mrs. Pearson's carriage."

Wharton followed the great man half mechanically across the little room, his mind in a whirl
of mingled rage and desire. Then suddenly he stopped his companion:

"Has George Denny anything to do with this proposal, Mr. Pearson?"

Mr. Pearson paused, with a little air of vague cogitation.

"George Denny? Mr. George Denny, the member for Westropp? I have had no dealings whatever with
that gentleman in the matter."

Wharton let him pass.

Then as he himself entered the tea-room, he perceived the bending form of Aldous Raeburn chatting
to Lady Winterbourne on his right, and that tall whiteness close in front, waiting for him.

His brain cleared in a flash. He was perfectly conscious that a bribe had just been offered
him, of the most daring and cynical kind, and that he had received the offer in the tamest
way. An insult had been put upon him which had for ever revealed the estimate held of him by
certain shrewd people, for ever degraded him in his own eyes.

Nevertheless, he was also conscious that the thing was done. The bribe would be accepted, the
risk taken. So far as his money-matters were concerned he was once more a free man. The mind
had adjusted itself, reached its decision in a few minutes.

And the first effect of the mingled excitement and self-contempt which the decision brought
with it had been to drive him into the scene with Marcella. Instinctively he asked of passion
to deliver him quickly from the smart of a new and very disagreeable experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well! why should he not take these men's offer?

He was as much convinced as they that this whole matter of the strike had of late come to a
deadlock. So long as the public would give, the workers, passionately certain of the justice
of their own cause, and filled with new ambitions after more decent living, would hold out.
On the other hand, he perfectly understood that the masters had also in many ways a strong
case, that they had been very hard hit by the strike, and that many of them would rather close
their works or transfer them bodily to the Continent than give way. Some of the facts Pearson
had found time to mention had been certainly new and striking.

At the same time he never disguised from himself for an instant that but for a prospective
20,000 l. the facts concerned would not have affected him in the least. Till to-night it had
been to his interest to back the strike, and to harass the employers. Now things were changed;
and he took a curious satisfaction in the quick movements of his own intelligence, as his thought
rapidly sketched the "curve" the Clarion would have to take, and the arguments by which he
would commend it.

As to his shares, they would be convertible of course into immediate cash. Some man of straw
would be forthcoming to buy what he would possess in the name of another man of straw. It was
not supposed--he took for granted--by the men who had dared to tempt him, that he would risk
his whole political reputation and career for anything less than a bird in the hand.

Well! what were the chances of secrecy?

Naturally they stood to lose less by disclosure, a good deal, than he did. And Denny, one of
the principal employers, was his personal enemy. He would be likely enough for the present
to keep his name out of the affair. But no man of the world could suppose that the transaction
would pass without his knowledge. Wharton's own hasty question to Mr. Pearson on the subject
seemed to himself now, in cold blood, a remarkably foolish one.

He walked up and down thinking this point out. It was the bitter pill of the whole affair.

In the end, with a sudden recklessness of youth and resource, he resolved to dare it. There
would not be much risk. Men of business do not as a rule blazon their own dirty work, and public
opinion would be important to the new Syndicate.

Some risk, of course, there would be. Well! his risks, as they stood, were pretty considerable.
He chose the lesser--not without something of a struggle, some keen personal smart. He had
done a good many mean and questionable things in his time, but never anything as gross as this.
The thought of what his relation to a certain group of men--to Denny especially--would be in
the future, stung sharply. But it is the part of the man of action to put both scruple and
fear behind him on occasion. His career was in question.

Craven? Well, Craven would be a difficulty. He would telegraph to him first thing in the morning
before the offices closed, and see him on Monday. For Marcella's sake the man must be managed--somehow.

And--Marcella! How should she ever know, ever suspect! She already disliked the violence with
which the paper had supported the strike. He would find no difficulty whatever in justifying
all that she or the public would see, to her.

Then insensibly he let his thoughts glide into thinking of the money. Presently he drew a sheet
of paper towards him and covered it with calculations as to his liabilities. By George! how
well it worked out! By the time he threw it aside, and walked to the window for air, he already
felt himself a bonâ-fide supporter of the Syndicate--the promoter in the public interest of
a just and well-considered scheme.

Finally, with a little joyous energetic movement which betrayed the inner man, he flung down
his cigarette, and turned to write an ardent letter to Marcella, while the morning sun stole
into the dusty room.

Difficult? of course! Both now and in the future. It would take him half his time yet--and
he could ill afford it--to bring her bound and captive. He recognised in her the southern element,
so strangely mated with the moral English temper. Yet he smiled over it. The subtleties of
the struggle he foresaw enchanted him.

And she would be mastered! In this heightened state of nerve his man's resolution only rose
the more fiercely to the challenge of her resistance.

Nor should she cheat him with long delays. His income would be his own again, and life decently
easy. He already felt himself the vain showman of her beauty.

A thought of Lady Selina crossed his mind, producing amusement and compassion--indulgent amusement,
such as the young man is apt to feel towards the spinster of thirty-five who pays him attention.
A certain sense of re-habilitation, too, which at the moment was particularly welcome. For,
no doubt, he might have married her and her fortune had he so chosen. As it was, why didn't
she find some needy boy to take pity on her? There were plenty going, and she must have abundance
of money. Old Alresford, too, was fast doddering off the stage, and then where would she be--without
Alresford House, or Busbridge, or those various other pedestals which had hitherto held her aloft?

       *       *       *       *       *

Early on Sunday morning Wharton telegraphed to Craven, directing him to "come up at once for
consultation." The rest of the day the owner of the Clarion spent pleasantly on the river with
Mrs. Lane and a party of ladies, including a young Duchess, who was pretty, literary, and socialistic.
At night he went down to the Clarion office, and produced a leader on the position of affairs
at Damesley which, to the practised eye, contained one paragraph--but one only--wherein the
dawn of a new policy might have been discerned.

Naturally the juxtaposition of events at the moment gave him considerable anxiety. He knew
very well that the Damesley bargain could not be kept waiting. The masters were losing heavily
every day, and were not likely to let him postpone the execution of his part of the contract
for a fortnight or so to suit his own convenience. It was like the sale of an "old master."
His influence must be sold now--at the ripe moment--or not at all.

At the same time it was very awkward. In one short fortnight the meeting of the party would
be upon him. Surrender on the Damesley question would give great offence to many of the Labour
members. It would have to be very carefully managed--very carefully thought out.

By eleven o'clock on Monday he was in Mr. Pearson's office. After the first involuntary smile,
concealed by the fair moustaches, and instantly dismissed, with which the eminent lawyer greeted
the announcement of his visitor's name, the two augurs carried through their affairs with perfect
decorum. Wharton realised, indeed, that he was being firmly handled. Mr. Pearson gave the Clarion
a week in which to accomplish its retreat and drop its strike fund. And the fund was to be
"checked" as soon as possible.

A little later, when Wharton abruptly demanded a guarantee of secrecy, Mr. Pearson allowed
himself his first--visible--smile.

"My dear sir, are such things generally made public property? I can give you no better assurance
than you can extract yourself from the circumstances. As to writing--well!--I should advise
you very strongly against anything of the sort. A long experience has convinced me that in
any delicate negotiation the less that is written the better."

Towards the end Wharton turned upon his companion sharply, and asked:

"How did you discover that I wanted money?"

Mr. Pearson lifted his eyebrows pleasantly.

"Most of the things in this world, Mr. Wharton, that one wants to know, can be found out. Now--I
have no wish to hurry you--not in the least, but I may perhaps mention that I have an important
appointment directly. Don't you think--we might settle our business?"

Wharton was half-humorously conscious of an inward leap of fury with the necessities which
had given this man--to whom he had taken an instantaneous dislike--the power of dealing thus
summarily with the member for West Brookshire. However, there was no help for it; he submitted,
and twenty minutes afterwards he left Lincoln's Inn carrying documents in the breast-pocket
of his coat which, when brought under his bankers' notice, would be worth to him an immediate
advance of some eight thousand pounds. The remainder of the purchase-money for his "shares"
would be paid over to him as soon as his part of the contract had been carried out.

He did not, however, go to his bank, but straight to the Clarion office, where he had a mid-day
appointment with Louis Craven.

At first sight of the tall, narrow-shouldered form and anxious face waiting for him in his
private room, Wharton felt a movement of ill-humour.

Craven had the morning's Clarion in his hand.

"This cannot mean"--he said, when they had exchanged a brief salutation--"that the paper is
backing out?"

He pointed to the suspicious paragraph in Wharton's leader, his delicate features quivering
with an excitement he could ill repress.

"Well, let us sit down and discuss the thing," said Wharton, closing the door, "that's what
I wired to you for."

He offered Craven a cigarette, which was refused, took one himself, and the two men sat confronting
each other with a writing-table between them. Wharton was disagreeably conscious at times of
the stiff papers in his coat-pocket, and was perhaps a little paler than usual. Otherwise he
showed no trace of mental disturbance; and Craven, himself jaded and sleepless, was struck
with a momentary perception of his companion's boyish good looks--the tumbling curls, that
Wharton straightened now and then, the charming blue eyes, the athlete's frame. Any stranger
would have taken Craven for the older man; in reality it was the other way.

The conversation lasted nearly an hour. Craven exhausted both argument and entreaty, though
when the completeness of the retreat resolved upon had been disclosed to him, the feeling roused
in him was so fierce that he could barely maintain his composure. He had been living among
scenes of starvation and endurance, which, to his mind, had all the character of martyrdom.
These men and women were struggling for two objects--the power to live more humanly, and the
free right of combination--to both of which, if need were, he would have given his own life
to help them without an instant's hesitation. Behind his blinking manner he saw everything
with the idealist's intensity, the reformer's passion. To be fair to an employer was not in
his power. To spend his last breath, were it called for, in the attempt to succour the working-man
against his capitalist oppressors, would have seemed to him the merest matter of course.

And his mental acuteness was quite equal to his enthusiasm, and far more evident. In his talk
with Wharton, he for a long time avoided, as before, out of a certain inner disdain, the smallest
touch of sentiment. He pointed out--what, indeed, Wharton well knew--that the next two or three
weeks of the strike would be the most critical period in its history; that, if the work-people
could only be carried through them, they were almost sure of victory. He gave his own reasons
for believing that the employers could ultimately be coerced, he offered proof of yielding
among them, proof also that the better men in their ranks were fully alive to and ashamed of
the condition of the workers. As to the Syndicate, he saw no objection to it, provided the
workers' claims were first admitted. Otherwise it would only prove a more powerful engine of
oppression.

Wharton's arguments may perhaps be left to the imagination. He would have liked simply to play
the proprietor and the master--to say, "This is my decision, those are my terms--take my work
or leave it." But Craven was Miss Boyce's friend; he was also a Venturist. Chafing under both
facts, Wharton found that he must state his case.

And he did state it with his usual ability. He laid great stress on "information from a private
source which I cannot disregard," to the effect that, if the resistance went on, the trade
would be broken up; that several of the largest employers were on the point of making arrangements
for Italian factories.

"I know," he said finally, "that but for the Clarion the strike would drop. Well! I have come
to the conclusion that the responsibility is too heavy. I shall be doing the men themselves
more harm than good. There is the case in a nutshell. We differ--I can't help that. The responsibility
is mine."

Craven rose with a quick, nervous movement. The prophet spoke at last.

"You understand," he said, laying a thin hand on the table, "that the condition of the workers
in this trade is infamous!--that the award and your action together plunge them back into a
state of things which is a shame and a curse to England!"

Wharton made no answer. He, too, had risen, and was putting away some papers in a drawer. A
tremor ran through Craven's tall frame; and for an instant, as his eye rested on his companion,
the idea of foul play crossed his mind. He cast it out, that he might deal calmly with his
own position.

"Of course, you perceive," he said, as he took up his hat, "that I can no longer on these terms
remain the Clarion's correspondent. Somebody else must be found to do this business."

"I regret your decision, immensely," said Wharton, with perfect suavity, "but of course I understand
it. I trust, however, that you will not leave us altogether. I can give you plenty of work
that will suit you. Here, for instance"--he pointed to a pile of Blue Books from the Labour
Commission lying on the table--"are a number of reports that want analysing and putting before
the public. You could do them in town at your leisure."

Craven struggled with himself. His first instinct was to fling the offer in Wharton's face.
Then he thought of his wife; of the tiny new household just started with such small, happy,
self-denying shifts; of the woman's inevitable lot, of the hope of a child.

"Thank you," he said, in a husky voice. "I will consider, I will write."

Wharton nodded to him pleasantly, and he went.

The owner of the Clarion drew a long breath.

"Now I think on the whole it would serve my purpose best to sit down and write to her--after
that. It would be well that my account should come first."

A few hours later, after an interview with his bankers and a further spell of letter-writing,
Wharton descended the steps of his club in a curious restless state. The mortgage on the Clarion
had been arranged for, his gambling debts settled, and all his other money matters were successfully
in train. Nevertheless, the exhilaration of the morning had passed into misgiving and depression.

Vague presentiments hung about him all day, whether in the House of Commons or elsewhere, and
it was not till he found himself on his legs at a crowded meeting at Rotherhithe, violently
attacking the Government Bill and the House of Lords, that he recovered that easy confidence
in the general favourableness of the universe to Harry Wharton, and Harry Wharton's plans,
which lent him so much of his power.

A letter from Marcella--written before she had received either of his--reached him at the House
just before he started for his meeting. A touching letter!--yet with a certain resolution in
it which disconcerted him.

"Forget, if you will, everything that you said to me last night. It might be--I believe it
would be--best for us both. But if you will not--if I must give my answer, then, as I said,
I must have time. It is only quite recently that I have realised the enormity of what I did
last year. I must run no risks of so wrenching my own life--or another's--a second time. Not
to be sure is for me torment. Why perfect simplicity of feeling--which would scorn the very
notion of questioning itself--seems to be beyond me, I do not know. That it is so fills me
with a sort of shame and bitterness. But I must follow my nature.

"So let me think it out. I believe you know, for one thing, that your 'cause,' your life-work,
attracts me strongly. I should not any longer accept all you say, as I did last year. But mere
opinion matters infinitely less to me than it did. I can imagine now agreeing with a friend
'in everything except opinion.' All that would matter to me now would be to feel that your
heart was wholly in your work, in your public acts, so that I might still admire and love all
that I might differ from. But there--for we must be frank with each other--is just my difficulty.
Why do you do so many contradictory things? Why do you talk of the poor, of labour, of self-denial,
and live whenever you can with the idle rich people, who hate all three in their hearts? You
talk their language; you scorn what they scorn, or so it seems; you accept their standards.
Oh!--to the really 'consecrate' in heart and thought I could give my life so easily, so slavishly
even! There is no one weaker than I in the world. I must have strength to lean upon--and a
strength, pure at the core, that I can respect and follow.

"Here in this nursing life of mine, I go in and out among people to the best of whom life is
very real and simple--and often, of course, very sad. And I am another being in it from what
I was at Lady Winterbourne's. Everything looks differently to me. No, no! you must please wait
till the inner voice speaks so that I can hear it plainly--for your sake at least as much as
for mine. If you persisted in coming to see me now, I should have to put an end to it all."

"Strange is the modern woman!" thought Wharton to himself, not without sharp pique, as he pondered
that letter in the course of his drive home from the meeting. "I talk to her of passion, and
she asks me in return why I do things inconsistent with my political opinions! puts me through
a moral catechism, in fact! What is the meaning of it all--confound it! --her state of mind
and mine? Is the good old ars amandi perishing out of the world? Let some Stendhal come and
tell us why!"

But he sat up to answer her, and could not get free from an inward pleading or wrestle with
her, which haunted him through all the intervals of these rapid days.

Life while they lasted was indeed a gymnast's contest of breath and endurance. The Clarion
made its retreat in Wharton's finest style, and the fact rang through labouring England. The
strike-leaders came up from the Midlands; Wharton had to see them. He was hotly attacked in
the House privately, and even publicly by certain of his colleagues. Bennett showed concern
and annoyance. Meanwhile the Conservative papers talked the usual employers' political economy;
and the Liberal papers, whose support of the strike had been throughout perfunctory, and of
no particular use to themselves or to other people, took a lead they were glad to get, and
went in strongly for the award.

Through it all Wharton showed extraordinary skill. The columns of the Clarion teemed with sympathetic
appeals to the strikers, flanked by long statements of "hard fact"--the details of foreign
competition and the rest, the plans of the masters--freely supplied him by Mr. Pearson. With
Bennett and his colleagues in the House he took a bold line; admitted that he had endangered
his popularity both inside Parliament and out of it at a particularly critical moment; and
implied, though he did not say, that some men were still capable of doing independent things
to their own hurt. Meanwhile he pushed a number of other matters to the front, both in the
paper and in his own daily doings. He made at least two important speeches in the provinces,
in the course of these days, on the Bill before the House of Lords; he asked questions in Parliament
on the subject of the wages paid to Government employés; and he opened an attack on the report
of a certain Conservative Commission which had been rousing the particular indignation of a
large mass of South London working men.

At the end of ten days the strike was over; the workers, sullen and enraged, had submitted,
and the plans of the Syndicate were in all the papers. Wharton, looking round him, realised
to his own amazement that his political position had rather gained than suffered. The general
impression produced by his action had been on the whole that of a man strong enough to take
a line of his own, even at the risk of unpopularity. There was a new tone of respect among
his opponents, and, resentful as some of the Labour members were, Wharton did not believe that
what he had done would ultimately damage his chances on the 10th at all. He had vindicated
his importance, and he held his head high, adopting towards his chances of the leadership a
strong and careless tone that served him well.

Meanwhile there were, of course, clever people behind the scenes who looked on and laughed.
But they held their tongues, and Wharton, who had carefully avoided the mention of names during
the negotiations with Pearson, did his best to forget them. He felt uncomfortable, indeed,
when he passed the portly Denny in the House or in the street. Denny had a way of looking at
the member for West Brookshire out of the corner of a small, slit-like eye. He did it more
than usual during these days, and Wharton had only to say to himself that for all things there
is a price--which the gods exact.

Wilkins, since the first disclosure of the Clarion change of policy, had been astonishingly
quiet. Wharton had made certain of violent attack from him. On the contrary, Wilkins wore now
in the House a subdued and pre-occupied air that escaped notice even with his own party in
the general fulness of the public mind. A few caustic north-countryisms on the subject of the
Clarion and its master did indeed escape him now and then, and were reported from mouth to
mouth; but on the whole he lay very low.

Still, whether in elation or anxiety, Wharton seemed to himself throughout the whole period
to be a fighter, straining every muscle, his back to the wall and his hand against every man.
There at the end of the fortnight stood the three goal-posts that must be passed, in victory
or defeat; the meeting that would for the present decide his parliamentary prospects, his interview
with Marcella, and--the confounded annual meeting of the "People's Banking Company," with all
its threatened annoyances.

He became, indeed, more and more occupied with this latter business as the days went on. But
he could see no way of evading it. He would have to fight it; luckily, now, he had the money.

The annual meeting took place two days before that fixed for the committee of the Labour party.
Wharton was not present at it, and in spite of ample warning he gave way to certain lively
movements of disgust and depression when at his club he first got hold of the evening papers
containing the reports. His name, of course, figured amply in the denunciations heaped upon
the directors of all dates; the sums which he with others were supposed to have made out of
the first dealings with the shares on the Stock Exchange were freely mentioned; and the shareholders
as a body had shown themselves most uncomfortably violent. He at once wrote off a letter to
the papers disclaiming all responsibility for the worst irregularities which had occurred,
and courting full enquiry--a letter which, as usual, both convinced and affected himself.

Then he went, restless and fuming, down to the House. Bennett passed him in the lobby with
an uneasy and averted eye. Whereupon Wharton seized upon him, carried him into the Library,
and talked to him, till Bennett, who, in spite of his extraordinary shrewdness and judgment
in certain departments, was a babe in matters of company finance, wore a somewhat cheered countenance.

They came out into the lobby together, Wharton holding his head very high.

"I shall deal with the whole thing in my speech on Thursday!" he said aloud, as they parted.

Bennett gave him a friendly nod and smile.

There was in this little man, with his considerable brain and his poet's heart, something of
the "imperishable child." Like a wholesome child, he did not easily "think evil"; his temper
towards all men--even the owners of "way-leaves" and mining royalties--was optimist. He had
the most naïve admiration for Wharton's ability, and for the academic attainments he himself
secretly pined for; and to the young complex personality itself he had taken from the beginning
an unaccountable liking. The bond between the two, though incongruous and recent, was real;
Wharton was as glad of Bennett's farewell kindness as Bennett had been of the younger man's
explanations.

So that during that day and the next, Bennett went about contradicting, championing, explaining;
while Wharton, laden with parliamentary business, vivid, unabashed, and resourceful, let it
be known to all whom it concerned that in his solicitor's opinion he had a triumphant answer
to all charges; and that meanwhile no one could wonder at the soreness of those poor devils
of shareholders.

The hours passed on. Wednesday was mainly spent by Wharton in a series of conferences and intrigues
either at the House or at his club; when he drove home exhausted at night he believed that
all was arranged--the train irrevocably laid, and his nomination to the chairmanship of the
party certain.

Wilkins and six or seven others would probably prove irreconcilable; but the vehemence and
rancour shown by the great Nehemiah during the summer in the pursuit of his anti-Wharton campaign
had to some extent defeated themselves. A personal grudge in the hands of a man of his type
is not a formidable weapon. Wharton would have felt perfectly easy on the subject but for some
odd bits of manner on Wilkins's part during the last forty-eight hours--whenever, in fact,
the two men had run across each other in the House--marked by a sort of new and insolent good
humour, that puzzled him. But there is a bravado of defeat. Yes!--he thought Wilkins was disposed
of.

From his present point of ease--debts paid, banker propitiated, income assured--it amazed him
to look back on his condition of a fortnight before. Had the Prince of Darkness himself offered
such a bargain it must have been accepted. After all his luck had held! Once get through this
odious company business--as to which, with a pleasing consciousness of turning the tables,
he had peremptorily instructed Mr. Pearson himself--and the barque of his fortunes was assured.

Then, with a quick turn of the mind, he threw the burden of affairs from him. His very hopefulness
and satisfaction had softened his mood. There stole upon him the murmurs and voices of another
world of thought--a world well known to his versatility by report, though he had as a rule
small inclination to dwell therein. But he was touched and shaken to-night by his own achievement.
The heavenly powers had been unexpectedly kind to him, and he was half moved to offer them
something in return.

"Do as you are done by"--that was an ethic he understood. And in moments of feeling he was
as ready to apply it to great Zeus himself as to his friends or enemies in the House of Commons.
He had done this doubtful thing--but why should it ever be necessary for him to do another?
Vague philosophic yearnings after virtue, moderation, patriotism, crossed his mind. The Pagan
ideal sometimes smote and fired him, the Christian never. He could still read his Plato and
his Cicero, whereas gulfs of unfathomable distaste rolled between him and the New Testament.
Perhaps the author of all authors for whom he had most relish was Montaigne. He would have
taken him down to-night had there been nothing more kindling to think of.

Marcella!--ah! Marcella! He gave himself to the thought of her with a new and delightful tenderness
which had in it elements of compunction. After those disagreeable paragraphs in the evening
papers, he had instantly written to her. "Every public man"--he had said to her, finding instinctively
the note of dignity that would appeal to her--"is liable at some period of his career to charges
of this sort. They are at once exaggerated and blackened, because he is a public man. To you
I owe perfect frankness, and you shall have it. Meanwhile I do not ask--I know--that you will
be just to me, and put the matter out of your thoughts till I can discuss it with you. Two
days more till I see your face! The time is long!"

To this there had been no answer. Her last letter indeed had rung sadly and coldly. No doubt
Louis Craven had something to do with it. It would have alarmed him could he simply have found
the time to think about it. Yet she was ready to see him on the 11th; and his confidence in
his own powers of managing fate was tougher than ever. What pleasant lies he had told her at
Lady Masterton's! Well! What passion ever yet but had its subterfuges? One more wrestle, and
he would have tamed her to his wish, wild falcon that she was. Then--pleasure and brave living!
And she also should have her way. She should breathe into him the language of those great illusions
he had found it of late so hard to feign with her; and they two would walk and rule a yielding
world together. Action, passion, affairs--life explored and exploited--and at last--"que la
mort me treuve plantant mes choulx--mais nonchalant d'elle!--et encore plus de mon jardin imparfaict!"

He declaimed the words of the great Frenchman with something of the same temper in which the
devout man would have made an act of faith. Then, with a long breath and a curious emotion,
he went to try and sleep himself into the new day.

CHAPTER XV.

The following afternoon about six o'clock Marcella came in from her second round. After a very
busy week, work happened to be slack; and she had been attending one or two cases in and near
Brown's Buildings rather because they were near than because they seriously wanted her. She
looked to see whether there was any letter or telegram from the office which would have obliged
her to go out again. Nothing was to be seen; and she put down her bag and cloak, childishly
glad of the extra hour of rest.

She was, indeed, pale and worn. The moral struggle which had filled the past fortnight from
end to end had deepened all the grooves and strained the forces of life; and the path, though
glimmering, was not wholly plain.

A letter lay unfinished in her drawer--if she sent it that night, there would be little necessity
or inducement for Wharton to climb those stairs on the morrow. Yet, if he held her to it, she
must see him.

As the sunset and the dusk crept on she still sat silent and alone, sunk in a depression which
showed itself in every line of the drooping form. She was degraded in her own eyes. The nature
of the impulses which had led her to give Wharton the hold upon her she had given him had become
plain to her. What lay between them, and the worst impulses that poison the lives of women,
but differences of degree, of expression? After those wild hours of sensuous revolt, a kind
of moral terror was upon her.

What had worked in her? What was at the root of this vehemence of moral reaction, this haunting
fear of losing for ever the best in life--self-respect, the comradeship of the good, communion
with things noble and unstained--which had conquered at last the mere woman, the weakness of
vanity and of sex? She hardly knew. Only there was in her a sort of vague thankfulness for
her daily work. It did not seem to be possible to see one's own life solely under the aspects
of selfish desire while hands and mind were busy with the piteous realities of sickness and
of death. From every act of service--from every contact with the patience and simplicity of
the poor--something had spoken to her, that divine ineffable something for ever "set in the
world," like beauty, like charm, for the winning of men to itself. "Follow truth!" it said
to her in faint mysterious breathings--"the truth of your own heart. The sorrow to which it
will lead you is the only joy that remains to you."

Suddenly she looked round her little room with a rush of tenderness. The windows were open
to the evening and the shouts of children playing in the courtyard came floating up. A bowl
of Mellor roses scented the air; the tray for her simple meal stood ready, and beside it a
volume of "The Divine Comedy," one of her mother's very rare gifts to her, in her motherless
youth--for of late she had turned thirstily to poetry. There was a great peace and plainness
about it all; and, besides, touches of beauty--tokens of the soul. Her work spoke in it; called
to her; promised comfort and ennobling. She thought with yearning, too, of her parents; of
the autumn holiday she was soon to spend with them. Her heart went out--sorely--to all the
primal claims upon it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless, clear as was the inner resolution, the immediate future filled her with dread.
Her ignorance of herself--her excitable folly--had given Wharton rights which her conscience
admitted. He would not let her go without a struggle, and she must face it.

As to the incidents which had happened during the fortnight--Louis Craven's return, and the
scandal of the "People's Banking Company"--they had troubled and distressed her; but it would
not be true to say that they had had any part in shaping her slow determination. Louis Craven
was sore and bitter. She was very sorry for him; and his reports of the Damesley strikers made
her miserable. But she took Wharton's "leaders" in the Clarion for another equally competent
opinion on the same subject; and told herself that she was no judge. As for the Company scandal,
she had instantly and proudly responded to the appeal of his letter, and put the matter out
of her thoughts, till at least he should give his own account. So much at any rate she owed
to the man who had stood by her through the Hurd trial. Marcella Boyce would not readily believe
in his dishonour! She did not in fact believe it. In spite of later misgivings, the impression
of his personality, as she had first conceived it, in the early days at Mellor, was still too
strong.

No--rather--she had constantly recollected throughout the day what was going on in Parliament.
These were for him testing and critical hours, and she felt a wistful sympathy. Let him only
rise to his part--take up his great task.

       *       *       *       *       *

An imperious knocking on her thin outer door roused her. She went to open it and saw Anthony
Craven,--the perspiration standing on his brow, his delicate cripple's face white and fierce.

"I want to talk to you," he said without preface. "Have you seen the afternoon papers?"

"No," she said in astonishment, "I was just going to send for them. What is wrong?"

He followed her into the sitting-room without speaking; and then he unfolded the Pall Mall
he had in his hand and pointed to a large-print paragraph on the central page with a shaking hand.

Marcella read:

"EXCITING SCENES IN THE HOUSE.--MEETING OF THE LABOUR MEMBERS.--A committee of the Labour representatives
in Parliament met this afternoon at 2 o'clock for the purpose of electing a chairman, and appointing
whips to the party, thus constituting a separate parliamentary group. Much interest was felt
in the proceedings, which it was universally supposed would lead to the appointment of Mr.
H. S. Wharton, the member for West Brookshire, as chairman and leader of the Labour party.
The excitement of the meeting and in the House may be imagined when--after a short but very
cordial and effective speech from Mr. Bennett, the member for North Whinwick, in support of
Mr. Wharton's candidature--Mr. Wilkins, the miner's member for Derlingham, rose and made a
series of astounding charges against the personal honour of the member for West Brookshire.
Put briefly, they amount to this: that during the recent strike at Damesley the support of
the Clarion newspaper, of which Mr. Wharton is owner and practically editor, was bought by
the employers in return for certain shares in the new Syndicate; that the money for these shares--which
is put as high as 20,000 l.--had already gone into Mr. Wharton's private pocket; and that the
change of policy on the part of the Clarion, which led to the collapse of the strike, was thus
entirely due to what the Labour members can only regard under the circumstances as a bribe
of a most disgraceful kind. The effect produced has been enormous. The debate is still proceeding,
and reporters have been excluded. But I hope to send a fuller account later."

Marcella dropped the paper from her hand.

"What does it mean?" she said to her companion.

"Precisely what it says," replied Anthony, with a nervous impatience he could not repress.
"Now," he added, as his lameness forced him to sit down, "will you kindly allow me some conversation
with you? It was you--practically--who introduced Louis to that man. You meant well to Louis,
and Mr. Wharton has been your friend. We therefore feel that we owe you some explanation. For
that paragraph"--he pointed to the paper--"is, substantially--Louis's doing, and mine."

"Yours?" she said mechanically. "But Louis has been going on working for the paper--I persuaded
him."

"I know. It was not we who actually discovered the thing. But we set a friend to work. Louis
has had his suspicions all along. And at last--by the merest chance--we got the facts."

Then he told the story, staring at her the while with his sparkling eyes, his thin invalid's
fingers fidgeting with his hat. If there was in truth any idea in his mind that the relations
between his companion and Harry Wharton were more than those of friendship, it did not avail
to make him spare her in the least. He was absorbed in vindictive feeling, which applied to
her also. He might say for form's sake that she had meant well; but in fact he regarded her
at this moment as a sort of odious Canidia whose one function had been to lure Louis to misfortune.
Cut off himself, by half a score of peculiarities, physical and other, from love, pleasure,
and power, Anthony Craven's whole affections and ambitions had for years centred in his brother.
And now Louis was not only violently thrown out of employment, but compromised by the connection
with the Clarion; was, moreover, saddled with a wife--and in debt.

So that his explanation was given with all the edge he could put upon it. Let her stop him,
if she pleased!--but she did not stop him.

The facts were these:

Louis had, indeed, been persuaded by Marcella, for the sake of his wife and bread and butter,
to go on working for the Clarion, as a reviewer. But his mind was all the time feverishly occupied
with the apostasy of the paper and its causes. Remembering Wharton's sayings and letters throughout
the struggle, he grew less and less able to explain the incident by the reasons Wharton had
himself supplied, and more and more convinced that there was some mystery behind.

He and Anthony talked the matter over perpetually. One evening Anthony brought home from a
meeting of the Venturists that George Denny, the son of one of the principal employers in the
Damesley trade, whose name he had mentioned once before in Marcella's ears. Denny was by this
time the candidate for a Labour constituency, an ardent Venturist, and the laughing-stock of
his capitalist family, with whom, however, he was still on more or less affectionate terms.
His father thought him an incorrigible fool, and his mother wailed over him to her friends.
But they were still glad to see him whenever he would condescend to visit them; and all friction
on money matters was avoided by the fact that Denny had for long refused to take any pecuniary
help from his father, and was nevertheless supporting himself tolerably by lecturing and literature.

Denny was admitted into the brothers' debate, and had indeed puzzled himself a good deal over
the matter already. He had taken a lively interest in the strike, and the articles in the Clarion
which led to its collapse had seemed to him both inexplicable and enraging.

After his talk with the Cravens, he went away, determined to dine at home on the earliest possible
opportunity. He announced himself accordingly in Hertford Street, was received with open arms,
and then deliberately set himself, at dinner and afterwards, to bait his father on social and
political questions, which, as a rule, were avoided between them.

Old Denny fell into the trap, lost his temper and self-control completely, and at a mention
of Harry Wharton--skilfully introduced at the precisely right moment--as an authority on some
matter connected with the current Labour programme, he threw himself back in his chair with
an angry laugh.

"Wharton? Wharton? You quote that fellow to me?"

"Why shouldn't I?" said the son, quietly.

"Because, my good sir,--he's a rogue,--that's all!--a common rogue, from my point of view even--still
more from yours."

"I know that any vile tale you can believe about a Labour leader you do, father," said George
Denny, with dignity.

Whereupon the older man thrust his hand into his coat-pocket, and drawing out a small leather
case, in which he was apt to carry important papers about with him, extracted from it a list
containing names and figures, and held it with a somewhat tremulous hand under his son's eyes.

"Read it, sir! and hold your tongue! Last week my friends and I bought that man--and his precious
paper--for a trifle of 20,000 l. or thereabouts. It paid us to do it, and we did it. I dare
say you will think the preceding questionable. In my eyes it was perfectly legitimate, a piece
of bonne guerre. The man was ruining a whole industry. Some of us had taken his measure, had
found out too--by good luck!--that he was in sore straits for money--mortgages on the paper,
gambling debts, and a host of other things--discovered a shrewd man to play him, and made our
bid! He rose to it like a gudgeon--gave us no trouble whatever. I need not say, of course"--he
added, looking up at his son--"that I have shown you that paper in the very strictest confidence.
But it seemed to me it was my duty as a father to warn you of the nature of some of your associates!"

"I understand," said George Denny, as, after a careful study of the paper--which contained,
for the help of the writer's memory, a list of the sums paid and founders' shares allotted
to the various "promoters" of the new Syndicate--he restored it to its owner. "Well, I, father,
have this to say in return. I came here to-night in the hope of getting from you this very
information, and in the public interest I hold myself not only free but bound to make public
use of it, at the earliest possible opportunity!"

The family scene may be imagined. But both threats and blandishments were entirely lost upon
the son. There was in him an idealist obstinacy which listened to nothing but the cry of a
cause, and he declared that nothing would or should prevent him from carrying the story of
the bribe direct to Nehemiah Wilkins, Wharton's chief rival in the House, and so saving the
country and the Labour party from the disaster and disgrace of Wharton's leadership. There
was no time to lose, the party meeting in the House was only two days off.

At the end of a long struggle, which exhausted everybody concerned, and was carried on to a
late hour of the night, Denny père, influenced by a desire to avoid worse things--conscious,
too, of the abundant evidence he possessed of Wharton's acceptance and private use of the money--and,
probably, when it came to the point, not unwilling,--under compulsion!--to tumble such a hero
from his pedestal, actually wrote, under his son's advice, a letter to Wilkins. It was couched
in the most cautious language, and professed to be written in the interests of Wharton himself,
to put an end "to certain ugly and unfounded rumours that have been brought to my knowledge."
The negotiation itself was described in the driest business terms. "Mr. Wharton, upon cause
shown, consented to take part in the founding of the Syndicate, and in return for his assistance,
was allotted ten founders' shares in the new company. The transaction differed in nothing from
those of ordinary business"--a last sentence slily added by the Socialist son, and innocently
accepted by one of the shrewdest of men.

After which Master George Denny scarcely slept, and by nine o'clock next morning was in a hansom
on his way to Wilkins's lodgings in Westminster. The glee of that black-bearded patriot hardly
needs description. He flung himself on the letter with a delight and relief so exuberant that
George Denny went off to another more phlegmatic member of the anti-Wharton "cave," with entreaties
that an eye should be kept on the member for Derlingham, lest he should do or disclose anything
before the dramatic moment.

Then he himself spent the next forty-eight hours in ingenious efforts to put together certain
additional information as to the current value of founders' shares in the new company, the
nature and amount of Wharton's debts, and so on. Thanks to his father's hints he was able in
the end to discover quite enough to furnish forth a supplementary statement. So that, when
the 10th arrived, the day rose upon a group of men breathlessly awaiting a play within a play--with
all their parts rehearsed, and the prompter ready.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such in substance, was Anthony's story. So carried away was he by the excitement and triumph
of it, that he soon ceased to notice what its effect might be upon his pale and quick-breathing
companion.

"And now what has happened?" she asked him abruptly, when at last he paused.

"Why, you saw!" he said in astonishment, pointing to the evening paper--"at least the beginning
of it. Louis is at the House now. I expect him every moment. He said he would follow me here."

Marcella pressed her hands upon her eyes a moment as though in pain. Anthony looked at her
with a tardy prick of remorse.

"I hear Louis's knock!" he said, springing up. "May I let him in?" And, without waiting for
reply, he hobbled as fast as his crutch would carry him to the outer door. Louis came in. Marcella
rose mechanically. He paused on the threshold, his short sight trying to make her out in the
dusk. Then his face softened and quivered. He walked forward quickly.

"I know you have something to forgive us," he said, "and that this will distress you. But we
could not give you warning. Everything was so rapid, and the public interests involved so crushing."

He was flushed with vengeance and victory, but as he approached her his look was deprecating--almost
timid. Only the night before, Anthony for the first time had suggested to him an idea about
her. He did not believe it--had had no time in truth to think of it in the rush of events.
But now he saw her, the doubt pulled at his heart. Had he indeed stabbed the hand that had
tried to help him?

Anthony touched him impatiently on the arm. "What has happened, Louis? I have shown Miss Boyce
the first news."

"It is all over," said Louis, briefly. "The meeting was breaking up as I came away. It had
lasted nearly five hours. There was a fierce fight, of course, between Wharton and Wilkins.
Then Bennett withdrew his resolution, refused to be nominated himself--nearly broke down, in
fact, they say; he had always been attached to Wharton, and had set his heart upon making him
leader--and finally, after a long wrangle, Molloy was appointed chairman of the party."

"Good!" cried Anthony, not able to suppress the note of exultation.

Louis did not speak. He looked at Marcella.

"Did he defend himself?" she asked in a low, sharp voice.

Louis shrugged his shoulders.

"Oh, yes. He spoke--but it did him no good. Everybody agreed that the speech was curiously
ineffective. One would have expected him to do it better. But he seemed to be knocked over.
He said, of course, that he had satisfied himself, and given proof in the paper, that the strike
could not be maintained, and that being so he was free to join any syndicate he pleased. But
he spoke amid dead silence, and there was a general groan when he sat down. Oh, it was not
this business only! Wilkins made great play in part of his speech with the Company scandal
too. It is a complete smash all round."

"Which he will never get over?" said Marcella, quickly.

"Not with our men. What he may do elsewhere is another matter. Anthony has told you how it
came out?"

She made a sign of assent. She was sitting erect and cold, her hands round her knees.

"I did not mean to keep anything from you," he said in a low voice, bending to her. "I know--you
admired him--that he had given you cause. But--my mind has been on fire--ever since I came
back from those Damesley scenes!"

She offered no reply. Silence fell upon all three for a minute or two; and in the twilight
each could hardly distinguish the others. Every now and then the passionate tears rose in Marcella's
eyes; her heart contracted. That very night when he spoke to her, when he used all those big
words to her about his future, those great ends for which he had claimed her woman's help--he
had these things in his mind.

"I think," said Louis Craven presently, touching her gently on the arm--he had tried once in
vain to attract her attention--"I think I hear some one asking for you outside on the landing--Mrs.
Hurd seems to be bringing them in."

As he spoke, Anthony suddenly sprang to his feet, and the outer door opened.

"Louis!" cried Anthony, "it is he!"

"Are yer at home, miss?" said Minta Hurd, putting in her head; "I can hardly see, it's so dark.
Here's a gentleman wants to see you."

As she spoke, Wharton passed her, and stood--arrested--by the sight of the three figures. At
the same moment Mrs. Hurd lit the gas in the little passage. The light streamed upon his face,
and showed him the identity of the two men standing beside Marcella.

Never did Marcella forget that apparition--the young grace and power of the figure--the indefinable
note of wreck, of catastrophe--the Lucifer brightness of the eyes in the set face. She moved
forward. Anthony stopped her.

"Good-night, Miss Boyce!"

She shook hands unconsciously with him and with Louis. The two Cravens turned to the door.
Wharton advanced into the room, and let them pass.

"You have been in a hurry to tell your story!" he said, as Louis walked by him.

Contemptuous hate breathed from every feature, but he was perfectly self-controlled.

"Yes--" said Craven, calmly--"Now it is your turn."

The door was no sooner shut than Wharton strode forward and caught her hand.

"They have told you everything? Ah!--"

His eye fell upon the evening paper. Letting her go, he felt for a chair and dropped into it.
Throwing himself back, his hands behind his head, he drew a long breath and his eyes closed.
For the first time in his life or hers she saw him weak and spent like other men. Even his
nerve had been worn down by the excitement of these five fighting hours. The eyes were lined
and hollow--the brow contracted; the young roundness of the cheek was lost in the general pallor
and patchiness of the skin; the lower part of the face seemed to have sharpened and lengthened,--and
over the whole had passed a breath of something aging and withering the traces of which sent
a shiver through Marcella. She sat down near him, still in her nurse's cloak, one trembling
hand upon her lap.

"Will you tell me what made you do this?" she asked, not being able to think of anything else
to say.

He opened his eyes with a start.

In that instant's quiet the scene he had just lived through had been rushing before him again--the
long table in the panelled committee-room, the keen angry faces gathered about it. Bennett,
in his blue tie and shabby black coat, the clear moist eyes vexed and miserable--Molloy, small
and wiry, business-like in the midst of confusion, cool in the midst of tumult--and Wilkins,
a black, hectoring leviathan, thundering on the table as he flung his broad Yorkshire across
it, or mouthing out Denny's letter in the midst of the sudden electrical silence of some thirty
amazed and incredulous hearers.

"Spies, yo call us?" with a finger like a dart, threatening the enemy--"Aye; an' yo're aboot
reet! I and my friends--we have been trackin' and spyin' for weeks past. We knew those men,
those starvin' women and bairns, were bein' sold, but we couldn't prove it. Now we've come
at the how and the why of it! And we'll make it harder for men like you to sell 'em again!
Yo call it infamy?--well, we call it detection."

Then rattling on the inner ear came the phrases of the attack which followed on the director
of "The People's Banking Association," the injured innocent of as mean a job, as unsavoury
a bit of vulturous finance, as had cropped into publicity for many a year--and finally the
last dramatic cry:

"But it's noa matter, yo say! Mester Wharton has nobbut played his party and the workin' man
a dirty trick or two--an' yo mun have a gentleman! Noa--the workin' man isn't fit himself to
speak wi' his own enemies i' th' gate--yo mun have a gentleman!--an' Mester Wharton, he says
he'll tak' the post, an' dea his best for yo--an', remember, yo mun have a gentleman! Soa now--Yes!
or No!--wull yo?--or woan't yo?"

And at that, the precipitation of the great unwieldy form half across the table towards Wharton's
seat--the roar of the speaker's immediate supporters thrown up against the dead silence of
the rest!

As to his own speech--he thought of it with a soreness, a disgust which penetrated to bones
and marrow. He had been too desperately taken by surprise--had lost his nerve--missed the right
tone throughout. Cool defiance, free self-justification, might have carried him through. Instead
of which--faugh!

All this was the phantom-show of a few seconds' thought. He roused himself from a miserable
reaction of mind and body to attend to Marcella's question.

"Why did I do it?" he repeated; "why--"

He broke off, pressing both his hands upon his brow. Then he suddenly sat up and pulled himself
together.

"Is that tea?" he said, touching the tray. "Will you give me some?"

Marcella went into the back kitchen and called Minta. While the boiling water was brought and
the tea was made, Wharton sat forward with his face on his hands and saw nothing. Marcella
whispered a word in Minta's ear as she came in. The woman paused, looked at Wharton, whom she
had not recognised before in the dark--grew pale--and Marcella saw her hands shaking as she
set the tray in order. Wharton knew nothing and thought nothing of Kurd's widow, but to Marcella
the juxtaposition of the two figures brought a wave of complex emotion.

Wharton forced himself to eat and drink, hardly speaking the while. Then, when the tremor of
sheer exhaustion had to some extent abated, he suddenly realised who this was that was sitting
opposite to him ministering to him.

She felt his hand--his quick powerful hand--on hers.

"To you I owe the whole truth--let me tell it!"

She drew herself away instinctively--but so softly that he did not realise it. He threw himself
back once more in the chair beside her--one knee over the other, the curly head so much younger
to-night than the face beneath it supported on his arms, his eyes closed again for rest--and
plunged into the story of the Clarion.

It was admirably told. He had probably so rehearsed it to himself several times already. He
described his action as the result of a double influence working upon him--the influence of
his own debts and necessities, and the influence of his growing conviction that the maintenance
of the strike had become a blunder, even a misfortune for the people themselves.

"Then--just as I was at my wit's end, conscious besides that the paper was on a wrong line,
and must somehow be got out of it--came the overtures from the Syndicate. I knew perfectly
well I ought to have refused them--of course my whole career was risked by listening to them.
But at the same time they gave me assurances that the workpeople would ultimately gain--they
proved to me that I was helping to extinguish the trade. As to the money--when a great company
has to be launched, the people who help it into being get paid for it--it is invariable--it
happens every day. I like the system no more than you may do--or Wilkins. But consider. I was
in such straits that bankruptcy lay between me and my political future. Moreover--I had lost
nerve, sleep, balance. I was scarcely master of myself when Pearson first broached the matter
to me--"

"Pearson!" cried Marcella, involuntarily. She recalled the figure of the solicitor; had heard
his name from Frank Leven. She remembered Wharton's impatient words--"There is a tiresome man
wants to speak to me on business--"

It was then I--that evening! Something sickened her.

Wharton raised himself in his chair and looked at her attentively with his young haggard eyes.
In the faint lamplight she was a pale vision of the purest and noblest beauty. But the lofty
sadness of her face filled him with a kind of terror. Desire--impotent pain--violent resolve,
swept across him. He had come to her, straight from the scene of his ruin, as to the last bulwark
left him against a world bent on his destruction, and bare henceforward of all delights.

"Well, what have you to say to me?" he said, suddenly, in a low changed voice--"as I speak--as
I look at you--I see in your face that you distrust--that you have judged me; those two men,
I suppose, have done their work! Yet from you--you of all people--I might look not only for
justice--but--I will dare say it--for kindness!"

She trembled. She understood that he appealed to the days at Mellor, and her lips quivered.

"No," she exclaimed, almost timidly--"I try to think the best. I see the pressure was great."

"And consider, please," he said proudly, "what the reasons were for that pressure."

She looked at him interrogatively--a sudden softness in her eyes. If at that moment he had
confessed himself fully, if he had thrown himself upon her in the frank truth of his mixed
character--and he could have done it, with a Rousseau-like completeness--it is difficult to
say what the result of this scene might have been. In the midst of shock and repulsion, she
was filled with pity; and there were moments when she was more drawn to his defeat and undoing,
than she had ever been to his success.

Yet how question him? To do so, would be to assume a right, which in turn would imply his rights.
She thought of that mention of "gambling debts," then of his luxurious habits, and extravagant
friends. But she was silent. Only, as she sat there opposite to him, one slim hand propping
the brow, her look invited him.

He thought he saw his advantage.

"You must remember," he said, with the same self-assertive bearing, "that I have never been
a rich man, that my mother spent my father's savings on a score of public objects, that she
and I started a number of experiments on the estate, that my expenses as a member of Parliament
are very large, and that I spent thousands on building up the Clarion. I have been ruined by
the Clarion, by the cause the Clarion supported. I got no help from my party--where was it
to come from? They are all poor men. I had to do everything myself, and the struggle has been
more than flesh and blood could bear! This year, often, I have not known how to move, to breathe,
for anxieties of every sort. Then came the crisis--my work, my usefulness, my career, all threatened.
The men who hated me saw their opportunity. I was a fool and gave it them. And my enemies have
used it--to the bitter end!"

Tone and gesture were equally insistent and strong. What he was saying to himself was that,
with a woman of Marcella's type, one must "bear it out." This moment of wreck was also with
him the first moment of all-absorbing and desperate desire. To win her--to wrest her from the
Cravens' influence--that had been the cry in his mind throughout his dazed drive from the House
of Commons. Her hand in his--her strength, her beauty, the romantic reputation that had begun
to attach to her, at his command--and he would have taken the first step to recovery, he would
see his way to right himself.

Ah! but he had missed his chance! Somehow, every word he had been saying rang false to her.
She could have thrown herself as a saving angel on the side of weakness and disaster which
had spoken its proper language, and with a reckless and confiding truth had appealed to the
largeness of a woman's heart. But this patriot--ruined so nobly--for such disinterested purposes--left
her cold! She began to think even--hating herself--of the thousands he was supposed to have
made in the gambling over that wretched company--no doubt for the "cause" too!

But before she could say a word he was kneeling beside her.

"Marcella I give me my answer!--I am in trouble and defeat--be a woman, and come to me!"

He had her hands. She tried to recover them.

"No!" she said, with passionate energy, "that is impossible. I had written to you before you
came, before I had heard a word of this. Please, please let me go!"

"Not till you explain!"--he said, still holding her, and roused to a white heat of emotion--"why
is it impossible? You said to me once, with all your heart, that you thanked me, that I had
taught you, helped you. You cannot ignore the bond between us! And you are free. I have a right
to say to you--you thirst to save, to do good--come and save a man that cries to you!--he confesses
to you, freely enough, that he has made a hideous mistake--help him to redeem it!"

She rose suddenly with all her strength, freeing herself from him, so that he rose too, and
stood glowering and pale.

"When I said that to you," she cried, "I was betraying "--her voice failed her an instant--"we
were both false--to the obligation that should have held us--restrained us. No! no! I will
never be your wife! We should hurt each other--poison each other!"

Her eyes shone with wild tears. As he stood there before her she was seized with a piteous
sense of contrast--of the irreparable--of what might have been.

"What do you mean?" he asked her, roughly.

She was silent.

His passion rose.

"Do you remember," he said, approaching her again, "that you have given me cause to hope? It
is those two fanatics that have changed you--possessed your mind."

She looked at him with a pale dignity.

"My letters must have warned you," she said simply. "If you had come to-morrow--in prosperity--you
would have got the same answer, at once. To-day--now--I have had weak moments, because--because
I did not know how to add pain to pain. But they are gone--I see my way! I do not love you--that
is the simple, the whole truth--I could not follow you!"

He stared at her an instant in a bitter silence.

"I have been warned,"--he said slowly, but in truth losing control of himself, "not only by
you--and I suppose I understand! You repent last year. Your own letter said as much. You mean
to recover, the ground--the place you lost. Ah, well!--most natural!--most fitting! When the
time comes--and my bones are less sore--I suppose I shall have my second congratulations ready!
Meanwhile--"

She gave a low cry and burst suddenly into a passion of weeping, turning her face from him.
But when in pale sudden shame he tried to excuse himself--to appease her--she moved away, with
a gesture that overawed him.

"You have not confessed yourself"--she said, and his look wavered under the significance of
hers--"but you drive me to it. Yes, I repent!"--her breast heaved, she caught her breath. "I
have been trying to cheat myself these last few weeks--to run away from grief--and the other
night when you asked me--I would have given all I have and am to feel like any happy girl,
who says 'Yes' to her lover. I tried to feel so. But even then, though I was miserable and
reckless, I knew in my heart--it was impossible! If you suppose--if you like to suppose--that
I--I have hopes or plans--as mean as they would be silly--you must--of course. But I have given
no one any right to think so or say so. Mr. Wharton--"

Gathering all her self-control, she put out her white hand to him. "Please--please say good-bye
to me. It has been hideous vanity--and mistake--and wretchedness--our knowing each other--from
the beginning. I am grateful for all you did, I shall always be grateful. I hope--oh! I hope--that--that
you will find a way through this trouble. I don't want to make it worse by a word. If I could
do anything! But I can't. You must please go. It is late. I wish to call my friend, Mrs. Hurd."

Their eyes met--hers full of a certain stern yet quivering power, his strained and bloodshot,
in his lined young face.

Then, with a violent gesture--as though he swept her out of his path--he caught up his hat,
went to the door, and was gone.

She fell on her chair almost fainting, and sat there for long in the summer dark, covering
her face. But it was not his voice that haunted her ears.

"You have done me wrong--I pray God you may not do yourself a greater wrong in the future!"

Again and again, amid the whirl of memory, she pressed the sad remembered words upon the inward
wound and fever--tasting, cherishing the smart of them. And as her trance of exhaustion and
despair gradually left her, it was as though she crept close to some dim beloved form in whom
her heart knew henceforward the secret and sole companion of its inmost life.

BOOK IV.

"You and I-- Why care by what meanders we are here I' the centre of the labyrinth? Men have
died Trying to find this place which we have found."

CHAPTER I.

Ah! how purely, cleanly beautiful was the autumn sunrise! After her long hardening to the stale
noisomeness of London streets, the taint of London air, Marcella hung out of her window at
Mellor in a thirsty delight, drinking in the scent of dew and earth and trees, watching the
ways of the birds, pouring forth a soul of yearning and of memory into the pearly silence of
the morning.

High up on the distant hill to the left, beyond the avenue, the pale apricots and golds of
the newly-shorn stubbles caught the mounting light. The beeches of the avenue were turning
fast, and the chestnuts girdling the church on her right hand were already thin enough to let
the tower show through. That was the bell--the old bell given to the church by Hampden's friend,
John Boyce--striking half-past five; and close upon it came the call of a pheasant in the avenue.
There he was, fine fellow, with his silly, mincing run, redeemed all at once by the sudden
whirr of towering flight.

To-day Mary Harden and the Rector would be at work in the church, and to-morrow was to be the
Harvest Festival. Was it two years?--or in an hour or two would she be going with her basket
from the Cedar Garden, to find that figure in the brown shooting-coat standing with the Hardens
on the altar steps?

Alas!--alas!--her head dropped on her hands as she knelt by the open window. How changed were
all the aspects of the world! Three weeks before, the bell in that little church had tolled
for one who, in the best way and temper of his own generation, had been God's servant and man's
friend--who had been Marcella's friend--and had even, in his last days, on a word from Edward
Hallin, sent her an old man's kindly farewell.

"Tell her," Lord Maxwell had written with his own hand to Hallin, "she has taken up a noble
work, and will make, I pray God, a noble woman. She had, I think, a kindly liking for an old
man, and she will not disdain his blessing."

He had died at Geneva, Aldous and Miss Raeburn with him. For instead of coming home in August,
he had grown suddenly worse, and Aldous had gone out to him. They had brought him to the Court
for burial, and the new Lord Maxwell, leaving his aunt at the Court, had almost immediately
returned to town,--because of Edward Hallin's state of health.

Marcella had seen much of Hallin since he and his sister had come back to London in the middle
of August. Hallin's apparent improvement had faded within a week or two of his return to his
rooms; Aldous was at Geneva; Miss Hallin was in a panic of alarm; and Marcella found herself
both nurse and friend. Day after day she would go in after her nursing rounds, share their
evening meal, and either write for Hallin, or help the sister--by the slight extra weight of
her professional voice--to keep him from writing and thinking.

He would not himself admit that he was ill at all, and his whole energies at the time were
devoted to the preparation of a series of three addresses on the subject of Land Reform, which
were to be delivered in October to the delegates of a large number of working-men's clubs from
all parts of London. So strong was Hallin's position among working-men reformers, and so beloved
had been his personality, that as soon as his position towards the new land nationalising movement,
now gathering formidable strength among the London working men, had come to be widely understood,
a combined challenge had been sent him by some half-dozen of the leading Socialist and Radical
clubs, asking him to give three weekly addresses in October to a congress of London delegates,
time to be allowed after the lecture for questions and debate.

Hallin had accepted the invitation with eagerness, and was throwing an intensity of labour
into the writing of his three lectures which often seemed to his poor sister to be not only
utterly beyond his physical strength, but to carry with it a note as of a last effort, a farewell
message, such as her devoted affection could ill endure. For all the time he was struggling
with cardiac weakness and brain irritability which would have overwhelmed any one less accustomed
to make his account with illness, or to balance against feebleness of body a marvellous discipline
of soul.

Lord Maxwell was still alive, and Hallin, in the midst of his work, was looking anxiously for
the daily reports from Aldous, living in his friend's life almost as much as in his own--handing
on the reports, too, day by day to Marcella, with a manner which had somehow slipped into expressing
a new and sure confidence in her sympathy--when she one evening found Minta Hurd watching for
her at the door with a telegram from her mother: "Your father suddenly worse. Please come at
once." She arrived at Mellor late that same night.

On the same day Lord Maxwell died. Less than a week later he was buried in the little Gairsley
church. Mr. Boyce was then alarmingly ill, and Marcella sat in his darkened room or in her
own all day, thinking from time to time of what was passing three miles away--of the great
house in its mourning--of the figures round the grave. Hallin, of course, would be there. It
was a dripping September day, and she passed easily from moments of passionate yearning and
clairvoyance to worry herself about the damp and the fatigue that Hallin must be facing.

Since then she had heard occasionally from Miss Hallin. Everything was much as it had been,
apparently. Edward was still hard at work, still ill, still serene. "Aldous"--Miss Hallin could
not yet reconcile herself to the new name--was alone in the Curzon Street house, much occupied
and harassed apparently by the legal business of the succession, by the election presently
to be held in his own constituency, and by the winding-up of his work at the Home Office. He
was to resign his under-secretaryship; but with the new session and a certain rearrangement
of offices it was probable that he would be brought back into the Ministry. Meanwhile he was
constantly with them; and she thought that his interest in Edward's work and anxiety about
his health were perhaps both good for him as helping to throw off something of his own grief
and depression.

Whereby it will be noticed that Miss Hallin, like her brother, had by now come to speak intimately
and freely to Marcella of her old lover and their friend.

Now for some days, however, she had received no letter from either brother or sister, and she
was particularly anxious to hear. For this was the fourth of October, and on the second he
was to have delivered the first of his addresses. How had the frail prophet sped? She had her
fears. For her weekly "evenings" in Brown's Buildings had shown her a good deal of the passionate
strength of feeling developed during the past year in connection with this particular propaganda.
She doubted whether the London working man at the present moment was likely to give even Hallin
a fair hearing on the point. However, Louis Craven was to be there. And he had promised to
write even if Susie Hallin could find no time. Some report ought to reach Mellor by the evening.

Poor Cravens! The young wife, who was expecting a baby, had behaved with great spirit through
the Clarion trouble; and, selling their bits of furniture to pay their debts, they had gone
to lodge near Anthony. Louis had got some odds and ends of designing and artistic work to do
through his brother's influence; and was writing where he could, here and there. Marcella had
introduced them to the Hallins, and Susie Hallin was taking a motherly interest in the coming
child. Anthony, in his gloomy way, was doing all he could for them. But the struggle was likely
to be a hard one, and Marcella had recognised of late that in Louis as in Anthony there were
dangerous possibilities of melancholy and eccentricity. Her heart was often sore over their
trouble and her own impotence.

Meantime for some wounds, at any rate, time had brought swift cautery! Not three days after
her final interview with Wharton, while the catastrophe in the Labour party was still in every
one's mouth, and the air was full of bitter speeches and recriminations, Hallin one evening
laid down his newspaper with a sudden startled gesture, and then pushed it over to Marcella.
There, in the columns devoted to personal news of various sorts, appeared the announcement:

"A marriage has been arranged between Mr. H.S. Wharfon, M.P. for West Brookshire, and Lady
Selina Farrell, only surviving daughter of Lord Alresford. The ceremony will probably take
place somewhere about Easter next. Meanwhile Mr. Wharton, whose health has suffered of late
from his exertions in and out of the House, has been ordered to the East for rest by his medical
advisers. He and his friend Sir William Ffolliot start for French Cochin China in a few days.
Their object is to explore the famous ruined temples of Angkor in Cambodia, and if the season
is favourable they may attempt to ascend the Mekong. Mr. Wharton is paired for the remainder
of the session."

"Did you know anything of this?" said Hallin, with that careful carelessness in which people
dress a dubious question.

"Nothing," she said quietly.

Then an impulse not to be stood against, springing from very mingled depths of feeling, drove
her on. She, too, put down the paper, and laying her finger-tips together on her knee she said
with an odd slight laugh:

"But I was the last person to know. About a fortnight ago Mr. Wharton proposed to me."

Hallin sprang from his chair, almost with a shout. "And you refused him?"

She nodded, and then was angrily aware that, totally against her will or consent, and for the
most foolish and remote reasons, those two eyes of hers had grown moist.

Hallin went straight over to her.

"Do you mind letting me shake hands with you?" he said, half ashamed of his outburst, a dancing
light of pleasure transforming the thin face. "There--I am an idiot! We won't say a word more--except
about Lady Selina. Have you seen her?"

"Three or four times."

"What is she like?"

Marcella hesitated.

"Is she fat--and forty?" said Hallin, fervently--she beat him?"

"Not at all. She is very thin--thirty-five, elegant, terribly of her own opinion--and makes
a great parade of 'papa.'"

She looked round at him, unsteadily, but gaily.

"Oh! I see," said Hallin, with disappointment, "she will only take care he doesn't beat her--which
I gather from your manner doesn't matter. And her politics?"

"Lord Alresford was left out of the Ministry," said Marcella slily. "He and Lady Selina thought
it a pity."

"Alresford--Alresford? Why, of course! He was Lord Privy Seal in their last Cabinet--a narrow-minded
old stick!--did a heap of mischief in the Lords. Well!"--Hallin pondered a moment--"Wharton
will go over!"

Marcella was silent. The tremor of that wrestler's hour had not yet passed away. The girl could
find no words in which to discuss Wharton himself, this last amazing act, or its future.

As for Hallin, he sat lost in pleasant dreams of a whitewashed Wharton, comfortably settled
at last below the gangway on the Conservative side, using all the old catch-words in slightly
different connections, and living gaily on his Lady Selina. Fragments from the talk of Nehemiah--Nehemiah
the happy and truculent, that new "scourge of God" upon the parasites of Labour--of poor Bennett,
of Molloy, and of various others who had found time to drop in upon him since the Labour smash,
kept whirling in his mind. The same prediction he had just made to Marcella was to be discerned
in several of them. He vowed to himself that he would write to Raeburn that night, congratulate
him and the party on the possibility of so eminent a recruit--and hint another item of news
by the way. She had trusted her confidence to him without any pledge--an act for which he paid
her well thenceforward, in the coin of a friendship far more intimate, expansive, and delightful
than anything his sincerity had as yet allowed him to show her.

But these London incidents and memories, near as they were in time, looked many of them strangely
remote to Marcella in this morning silence. When she drew back from the window, after darkening
the now sun-flooded room in a very thorough business-like way, in order that she might have
four or five hours' sleep, there was something symbolic in the act. She gave back her mind,
her self, to the cares, the anxieties, the remorses of the past three weeks. During the night
she had been sitting up with her father that her mother might rest. Now, as she lay down, she
thought with the sore tension which had lately become habitual to her, of her father's state,
her mother's strange personality, her own short-comings.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the middle of the morning she was downstairs again, vigorous and fresh as ever. Mrs. Boyce's
maid was for the moment in charge of the patient, who was doing well. Mrs. Boyce was writing
some household notes in the drawing-room. Marcella went in search of her.

The bare room, just as it ever was--with its faded antique charm--looked bright and tempting
in the sun. But the cheerfulness of it did but sharpen the impression of that thin form writing
in the window. Mrs. Boyce looked years older. The figure had shrunk and flattened into that
of an old woman; the hair, which two years before had been still young and abundant, was now
easily concealed under the close white cap she had adopted very soon after her daughter had
left Mellor. The dress was still exquisitely neat; but plainer and coarser. Only the beautiful
hands and the delicate stateliness of carriage remained--sole relics of a loveliness which
had cost its owner few pangs to part with.

Marcella hovered near her--a little behind her--looking at her from time to time with a yearning
compunction--which Mrs. Boyce seemed to be aware of, and to avoid.

"Mamma, can't I do those letters for you? I am quite fresh."

"No, thank you. They are just done."

When they were all finished and stamped, Mrs. Boyce made some careful entries in a very methodical
account-book, and then got up, locking the drawers of her little writing-table behind her.

"We can keep the London nurse another week I think," she said.

"There is no need," said Marcella, quickly. "Emma and I could divide the nights now and spare
you altogether. You see I can sleep at any time."

"Your father seems to prefer Nurse Wenlock," said Mrs. Boyce.

Marcella took the little blow in silence. No doubt it was her due. During the past two years
she had spent two separate months at Mellor; she had gone away in opposition to her father's
wish; and had found herself on her return more of a stranger to her parents than ever. Mr.
Boyce's illness, involving a steady extension of paralytic weakness, with occasional acute
fits of pain and danger, had made steady though very gradual progress all the time. But it
was not till some days after her return home that Marcella had realised a tenth part of what
her mother had undergone since the disastrous spring of the murder.

She passed now from the subject of the nurse with a half-timid remark about "expense."

"Oh! the expense doesn't matter!" said Mrs. Boyce, as she stood absently before the lately
kindled fire, warming her chilled fingers at the blaze.

"Papa is more at ease in those ways?" Marcella ventured. And kneeling down beside her mother
she gently chafed one of the cold hands.

"There seems to be enough for what is wanted," said Mrs. Boyce, bearing the charing with patience.
"Your father, I believe, has made great progress this year in freeing the estate. Thank you,
my dear. I am not cold now."

And she gently withdrew her hand.

Marcella, indeed, had already noticed that there were now no weeds on the garden-paths, that
instead of one gardener there were three, that the old library had been decently patched and
restored, that there was another servant, that William, grown into a very--tolerable footman,
wore a reputable coat, and that a plain but adequate carriage and horse had met her at the
station. Her pity even understood that part of her father's bitter resentment of his ever-advancing
disablement came from his feeling that here at last--just as death was in sight--he, that squalid
failure, Dick Boyce, was making a success of something.

Presently, as she knelt before the fire, a question escaped her, which, when it was spoken,
she half regretted.

"Has papa been able to do anything for the cottages yet?"

"I don't think so," said Mrs. Boyce, calmly. After a minute's pause she added, "That will be
for your reign, my dear."

Marcella looked up with a sharp thrill of pain.

"Papa is better, mamma, and--and I don't know what you mean. I shall never reign here without you."

Mrs. Boyce began to fidget with the rings on her thin left hand.

"When Mellor ceases to be your father's it will be yours," she said, not without a certain
sharp decision; "that was settled long ago. I must be free--and if you are to do anything with
this place, you must give your youth and strength to it. And your father is not better--except
for the moment. Dr. Clarke exactly foretold the course of his illness to me two years ago,
on my urgent request. He may live four months--six, if we can get him to the South. More is
impossible."

There was something ghastly in her dry composure. Marcella caught her hand again and leant
her trembling young cheek against it.

"I could not live here without you, mamma!"

Mrs. Boyce could not for once repress the inner fever which in general her will controlled so well.

"I hardly think it would matter to you so much, my dear."

Marcella shrank.

"I don't wonder you say that!" she said in a low voice. "Do you think it was all a mistake,
mamma, my going away eighteen months ago--a wrong act?"

Mrs. Boyce grew restless.

"I judge nobody, my dear!--unless I am obliged. As you know, I am for liberty--above all"--she
spoke with emphasis--"for letting the past alone. But I imagine you must certainly have learnt
to do without us. Now I ought to go to your father."

But Marcella held her.

"Do you remember in the Purgatorio, mamma, the lines about the loser in the game: 'When the
game of dice breaks up, he who lost lingers sorrowfully behind, going over the throws, and
learning by his grief'? Do you remember?"

Mrs. Boyce looked down upon her, involuntarily a little curious, a little nervous, but assenting.
It was one of the inconsistencies of her strange character that she had all her life been a
persistent Dante student. The taste for the most strenuous and passionate of poets had developed
in her happy youth; it had survived through the loneliness of her middle life. Like everything
else personal to herself she never spoke of it; but the little worn books on her table had
been familiar to Marcella from a child.

"E tristo impara?" repeated Marcella, her voice wavering. "Mamma "--she laid her face against
her mother's dress again--"I have lost more throws than you think in the last two years. Won't
you believe I may have learnt a little?"

She raised her eyes to her mother's pinched and mask-like face. Mrs. Boyce's lips moved as
though she would have asked a question. But she did not ask it. She drew, instead, the stealthy
breath Marcella knew well--the breath of one who has measured precisely her own powers of endurance,
and will not risk them for a moment by any digression into alien fields of emotion.

"Well, but one expects persons like you to learn," she said, with a light, cold manner, which
made the words mere convention. There was silence an instant; then, probably to release herself,
her hand just touched her daughter's hair. "Now, will you come up in half an hour? That was
twelve striking, and Emma is never quite punctual with his food."

       *       *       *       *       *

Marcella went to her father at the hour named. She found him in his wheeled chair, beside a
window opened to the sun, and overlooking the Cedar Garden. The room in which he sat was the
state bedroom of the old house. It had a marvellous paper of branching trees and parrots and
red-robed Chinamen, in the taste of the morning room downstairs, a carved four-post bed, a
grate adorned with purplish Dutch tiles, an array of family miniatures over the mantelpiece,
and on a neighbouring wall a rack of old swords and rapiers. The needlework hangings of the
bed were full of holes; the seats of the Chippendale chairs were frayed or tattered. But, none
the less, the inalienable character and dignity of his sleeping-room were a bitter satisfaction
to Richard Boyce, even in his sickness. After all said and done, he was king here in his father's
and grandfather's place; ruling where they ruled, and--whether they would or no--dying where
they died, with the same family faces to bear him witness from the walls, and the same vault
awaiting him.

When his daughter entered, he turned his head, and his eyes, deep and black still as ever,
but sunk in a yellow relic of a face, showed a certain agitation. She was disagreeably aware
that his thoughts were much occupied with her; that he was full of grievance towards her, and
would probably before long bring the pathos of his situation as well as the weight of his dying
authority to bear upon her, for purposes she already suspected with alarm.

"Are you a little easier, papa?" she said, as she came up to him.

"I should think as a nurse you ought to know better, my dear, than to ask," he said testily.
"When a person is in my condition, enquiries of that sort are a mockery!"

"But one may be in less or more pain," she said gently. "I hoped Dr. Clarke's treatment yesterday
might have given you some relief."

He did not vouchsafe an answer. She took some work and sat down by him. Mrs. Boyce, who had
been tidying a table of food and medicine, came and asked him if he would be wheeled into another
room across the gallery, which had been arranged as a sitting-room. He shook his head irritably.

"I am not fit for it. Can't you see? And I want to speak to Marcella."

Mrs. Boyce went away. Marcella waited, not without a tremor. She was sitting in the sun, her
head bent over the muslin strings she was hemming for her nurse's bonnet. The window was wide
open; outside, the leaves under a warm breeze were gently drifting down into the Cedar Garden,
amid a tangled mass of flowers, mostly yellow or purple. To one side rose the dark layers of
the cedars; to the other, the grey front of the library wing.

Mr. Boyce looked at her with the frown which had now become habitual to him, moved his lips
once or twice without speaking; and at last made his effort.

"I should think, Marcella, you must often regret by now the step you took eighteen months ago!"

She grew pale.

"How regret it, papa?" she said, without looking up.

"Why, good God!" he said angrily; "I should think the reasons for regret are plain enough.
You threw over a man who was devoted to you, and could have given you the finest position in
the county, for the most nonsensical reasons in the world--reasons that by now, I am certain,
you are ashamed of."

He saw her wince, and enjoyed his prerogative of weakness. In his normal health he would never
have dared so to speak to her. But of late, during long fits of feverish brooding--intensified
by her return home--he had vowed to himself to speak his mind.

"Aren't you ashamed of them?" he repeated, as she was silent.

She looked up.

"I am not ashamed of anything I did to save Hurd, if that is what you mean, papa."

Mr. Boyce's anger grew.

"Of course you know what everybody said?"

She stooped over her work again, and did not reply.

"It's no good being sullen over it," he said in exasperation; "I'm your father, and I'm dying.
I have a right to question you. It's my duty to see something settled, if I can, before I go.
Is it true that all the time you were attacking Raeburn about politics and the reprieve, and
what not, you were really behaving as you never ought to have behaved, with Harry Wharton?"

He gave out the words with sharp emphasis, and, bending towards her, he laid an emaciated hand
upon her arm.

"What use is there, papa, in going back to these things?" she said, driven to bay, her colour
going and coming. "I may have been wrong in a hundred ways, but you never understood that the
real reason for it all was that--that--I never was in love with Mr. Raeburn."

"Then why did you accept him?" He fell back against his pillows with a jerk.

"As to that, I will confess my sins readily enough," she said, while her lip trembled, and
he saw the tears spring into her eyes. "I accepted him for what you just now called his position
in the county, though not quite in that way either."

He was silent a little, then he began again in a voice which gradually became unsteady from
self-pity.

"Well, now look here! I have been thinking about this matter a great deal--and God knows I've
time to think and cause to think, considering the state I'm in--and I see no reason whatever
why I should not try--before I die--to put this thing straight. That man was head over ears
in love with you, madly in love with you. I used to watch him, and I know. Of course you offended
and distressed him greatly. He could never have expected such conduct from you or any one else.
But he's not the man to change round easily, or to take up with any one else. Now, if you regret
what you did or the way in which you did it, why shouldn't I--a dying man may be allowed a
little licence I should think!--give him a hint?"

"Papa!" cried Marcella, dropping her work, and looking at him with a pale, indignant passion,
which a year ago would have quelled him utterly. But he held up his hand.

"Now just let me finish. It would be no good my doing a thing of this kind without saying something
to you first, because you'd find it out, and your pride would be the ruin of it. You always
had a demoniacal pride, Marcella, even when you were a tiny child; but if you make up your
mind now to let me tell him you regret what you did--just that--you'll make him happy, and
yourself, for you know very well he's a man of the highest character--and your poor father,
who never did you much harm anyway!" His voice faltered. "I'd manage it so that there should
be nothing humiliating to you in it whatever. As if there could be anything humiliating in
confessing such a mistake as that; besides, what is there to be ashamed of? You're no pauper.
I've pulled Mellor out of the mud for you, though you and your mother do give me credit for
so precious little!"

He lay back, trembling with fatigue, yet still staring at her with glittering eyes, while his
hand on the invalid table fixed to the side of his chair shook piteously. Marcella dreaded
the effect the whole scene might have upon him; but, now they were in the midst of it, both
feeling for herself and prudence for him drove her into the strongest speech she could devise.

"Papa, if anything of that sort were done, I should take care Mr. Raeburn knew I had had nothing
to do with it--in such a way that it would be impossible for him to carry it further. Dear
papa, don't think of such a thing any more. Because I treated Mr. Raeburn unjustly last year,
are we now to harass and persecute him? I would sooner disappear from everybody I know--from
you and mamma, from England--and never be heard of again."

She stopped a moment--struggling for composure--that she might not excite him too much.

"Besides, it would be absurd! You forget I have seen a good deal of Mr. Raeburn lately--while
I have been with the Winterbournes. He has entirely given up all thought of me. Even my vanity
could see that plainly enough. His best friends expect him to marry a bright, fascinating little
creature of whom I saw a good deal in James Street--a Miss Macdonald."

"Miss how--much?" he asked roughly.

She repeated the name, and then dwelt, with a certain amount of confusion and repetition, upon
the probabilities of the matter--half conscious all the time that she was playing a part, persuading
herself and him of something she was not at all clear about in her own inner mind--but miserably,
passionately determined to go through with it all the same.

He bore with what she said to him, half disappointed and depressed, yet also half incredulous.
He had always been obstinate, and the approach of death had emphasised his few salient qualities,
as decay had emphasised the bodily frame. He said to himself stubbornly that he would find
some way yet of testing the matter in spite of her. He would think it out.

Meanwhile, step by step, she brought the conversation to less dangerous things, and she was
finally gliding into some chat about the Winterbournes when he interrupted her abruptly--

"And that other fellow--Wharton. Your mother tells me you have seen him in London. Has he been
making love to you?"

"Suppose I won't be catechised!" she said gaily, determined to allow no more tragedy of any
kind. "Besides, papa, you can't read your gossip as good people should. Mr. Wharton's engagement
to a certain Lady Selina Farrell--a distant cousin of the Winterbournes--was announced, in
several papers with great plainness three weeks ago."

At that moment her mother came in, looking anxiously at them both, and half resentfully at
Marcella. Marcella, sore and bruised in every moral fibre, got up to go.

Something in the involuntary droop of her beautiful head as she left the room drew her father's
eyes after her, and for the time his feeling towards her softened curiously. Well, she had
not made very much of her life so far! That old strange jealousy of her ability, her beauty,
and her social place, he had once felt so hotly, died away. He wished her, indeed, to be Lady
Maxwell. Yet for the moment there was a certain balm in the idea that she too--her mother's
daughter--with her Merritt blood--could be unlucky.

Marcella went about all day under a vague sense of impending trouble--the result, no doubt,
of that intolerable threat of her father's, against which she was, after all, so defenceless.

But whatever it was, it made her all the more nervous and sensitive about the Hallins; about
her one true friend, to whom she was slowly revealing herself, even without speech; whose spiritual
strength had been guiding and training her; whose physical weakness had drawn to him the maternal,
the spending instincts which her nursing life had so richly developed.

She strolled down the drive to meet the post. But there were no letters from London, and she
came in, inclined to be angry indeed with Louis Craven for deserting her, but saying to herself
at the same time that she must have heard if anything had gone wrong.

An hour or so later, just as the October evening was closing in, she was sitting dreaming over
a dim wood-fire in the drawing-room. Her father, as might have been expected, had been very
tired and comatose all day. Her mother was with him; the London nurse was to sit up, and Marcella
felt herself forlorn and superfluous.

Suddenly, in the silence of the house, she heard the front-door bell ring. There was a step
in the hall--she sprang up--the door opened, and William, with fluttered emphasis, announced--

"Lord Maxwell!"

In the dusk she could just see his tall form--the short pause as he perceived her--then her
hand was in his, and the paralysing astonishment of that first instant had disappeared under
the grave emotion of his look.

"Will you excuse me," he said, "for coming at this hour? But I am afraid you have heard nothing
yet of our bad news--and Hallin himself was anxious I should come and tell you. Miss Hallin
could not write, and Mr. Craven, I was to tell you, had been ill for a week with a chill. You
haven't then seen any account of the lecture in the papers?"

"No; I have looked yesterday and to-day in our paper, but there was nothing--"

"Some of the Radical papers reported it. I hoped you might have seen it. But when we got down
here this afternoon, and there was nothing from you, both Miss Hallin and Edward felt sure
you had not heard--and I walked over. It was a most painful, distressing scene, and he--is
very ill."

"But you have brought him to the Court?" she said trembling, lost in the thought of Hallin,
her quick breath coming and going. "He was able to bear the journey? Will you tell me?--will
you sit down?"

He thanked her hurriedly, and took a seat opposite to her, within the circle of the firelight,
so that she saw his deep mourning and the look of repressed suffering.

"The whole thing was extraordinary--I can hardly now describe it," he said, holding his hat
in his hands and staring into the fire. "It began excellently. There was a very full room.
Bennett was in the chair--and Edward seemed much as usual. He had been looking desperately
ill, but he declared that he was sleeping better, and that his sister and I coddled him. Then,--directly
he was well started!--I felt somehow that the audience was very hostile. And he evidently felt
it more and more. There was a good deal of interruption and hardly any cheers--and I saw after
a little--I was sitting not far behind him--that he was discouraged--that he had lost touch.
It was presently clear, indeed, that the real interest of the meeting lay not in the least
in what he had to say, but in the debate that was to follow. They meant to let him have his
hour--but not a minute more. I watched the men about me, and I could see them following the
clock--thirsting for their turn. Nothing that he said seemed to penetrate them in the smallest
degree. He was there merely as a ninepin to be knocked over. I never saw a meeting so possessed
with a madness of fanatical conviction--it was amazing!"

He paused, looking sadly before him. She made a little movement, and he roused himself instantly.

"It was just a few minutes before he was to sit down--I was thankful!--when suddenly--I heard
his voice change. I do not know now what happened--but I believe he completely lost consciousness
of the scene before him--the sense of strain, of exhaustion, of making no way, must have snapped
something. He began a sort of confession--a reverie in public--about himself, his life, his
thoughts, his prayers, his hopes--mostly his religious hopes--for the working man, for England--I
never heard anything of the kind from him before--you know his reserve. It was so intimate--so
painful--oh! so painful!"--he drew himself together with an involuntary shudder--"before this
crowd, this eager hostile crowd which was only pining for him to sit down--to get out of their
way. The men near me began to look at each other and titter. They wondered what he meant by
maundering on like that--'damned canting stuff'--I heard one man near me call it. I tore off
a bit of paper, and passed a line to Bennett asking him to get hold of Edward, to stop it.
But I think Bennett had rather lost his presence of mind, and I saw him look back at me and
shake his head. Then time was up, and they began to shout him down."

Marcella made an exclamation of horror. He turned to her.

"I think it was the most tragic scene I ever saw," he said with a feeling as simple as it was
intense. "This crowd so angry and excited--without a particle of understanding or sympathy--laughing,
and shouting at him--and he in the midst--white as death--talking this strange nonsense--his
voice floating in a high key, quite unlike itself. At last just as I was getting up to go to
him, I saw Bennett rise. But we were both too late. He fell at our feet!"

Marcella gave an involuntary sob! "What a horror!" she said, "what a martyrdom!"

"It was just that," he answered in a low voice--"It was a martyrdom. And when one thinks of
the way in which for years past he has held these big meetings in the hollow of his hand, and
now, because he crosses their passion, their whim,--no kindness!--no patience--nothing but
a blind hostile fury! Yet they thought him a traitor, no doubt. Oh! it was all a tragedy!"

There was silence an instant. Then he resumed:

"We got him into the back room. Luckily there was a doctor on the platform. It was heart failure,
of course, with brain prostration. We managed to get him home, and Susie Hallin and I sat up.
He was delirious all night; but yesterday he rallied, and last night he begged us to move him
out of London if we could. So we got two doctors and an invalid carriage, and by three this
afternoon we were all at the Court. My aunt was ready for him--his sister is there--and a nurse.
Clarke was there to meet him. He thinks he cannot possibly live more than a few weeks--possibly
even a few days. The shock and strain have been irreparable."

Marcella lay back in her chair, struggling with her grief, her head and face turned away from
him, her eyes hidden by her handkerchief. Then in some mysterious way she was suddenly conscious
that Aldous was no longer thinking of Hallin, but of her.

"He wants very much to see you," he said, bending towards her; "but I know that you have yourself
serious illness to nurse. Forgive me for not having enquired after Mr. Boyce. I trust he is
better?"

She sat up, red-eyed, but mistress of herself. The tone had been all gentleness, but to her
quivering sense some slight indefinable change--coldness--had passed into it.

"He is better, thank you--for the present. And my mother does not let me do very much. We have
a nurse too. When shall I come?"

He rose.

"Could you--come to-morrow afternoon? There is to be a consultation of doctors in the morning,
which will tire him. About six?--that was what he said. He is very weak, but in the day quite
conscious and rational. My aunt begged me to say how glad she would be--"

He paused. An invincible awkwardness took possession of both of them. She longed to speak to
him of his grandfather but could not find the courage.

When he was gone, she, standing alone in the firelight, gave one passionate thought to the
fact that so--in this tragic way--they had met again in this room where he had spoken to her
his last words as a lover; and then, steadily, she put everything out of her mind but her friend--and
death.

CHAPTER II.

Mrs. Boyce received Marcella's news with more sympathy than her daughter had dared to hope
for, and she made no remark upon Aldous himself and his visit, for which Marcella was grateful
to her.

As they left the dining-room, after their short evening meal, to go up to Mr. Boyce, Marcella
detained her mother an instant.

"Mamma, will you please not tell papa that--that Lord Maxwell came here this afternoon? And
will you explain to him why I am going there to-morrow?"

Mrs. Boyce's fair cheek flushed. Marcella saw that she understood.

"If I were you, I should not let your father talk to you any more about those things," she
said with a certain proud impatience.

"If I can help it!" exclaimed Marcella. "Will you tell him, mamma,--about Mr. Hallin?--and
how good he has been to me?"

Then her voice failed her, and, hurriedly leaving her mother at the top of the stairs, she
went away by herself to struggle with a grief and smart almost unbearable.

That night passed quietly at the Court. Hallin was at intervals slightly delirious, but less
so than the night before; and in the early morning the young doctor, who had sat up with him,
reported him to Aldous as calmer and a little stronger. But the heart mischief was hopeless,
and might bring the bruised life to an end at any moment.

He could not, however, be kept in bed, owing to restlessness and difficulty of breathing, and
by midday he was in Aldous's sitting-room, drawn close to the window, that he might delight
his eyes with the wide range of wood and plain that it commanded. After a very wet September,
the October days were now following each other in a settled and sunny peace. The great woods
of the Chilterns, just yellowing towards that full golden moment--short, like all perfection,--which
only beeches know, rolled down the hill-slopes to the plain, their curving lines cut here and
there by straight fir stems, drawn clear and dark on the pale background of sky and lowland.
In the park, immediately below the window, groups of wild cherry and of a slender-leaved maple
made spots of "flame and amethyst" on the smooth falling lawns; the deer wandered and fed,
and the squirrels were playing and feasting among the beech nuts.

Since Aldous and his poor sister had brought him home from the Bethnal Green hall in which
the Land Reform Conference had been held, Hallin had spoken little, except in delirium, and
that little had been marked by deep and painful depression. But this morning, when Aldous was
summoned by the nurse, and found him propped up by the window, in front of the great view,
he saw gracious signs of change. Death, indeed, already in possession, looked from the blue
eyes so plainly that Aldous, on his first entrance, had need of all his own strength of will
to keep his composure. But with the certainty of that great release, and with the abandonment
of all physical and mental struggle--the struggle of a lifetime--Hallin seemed to-day to have
recovered something of his characteristic serenity and blitheness--the temper which had made
him the leader of his Oxford contemporaries, and the dear comrade of his friend's life.

When Aldous came in, Hallin smiled and lifted a feeble hand towards the park and the woods.

"Could it have greeted me more kindly," he said, in his whispering voice, "for the end?"

Aldous sat down beside him, pressing his hand, and there was silence till Hallin spoke again.

"You will keep this sitting-room, Aldous?"

"Always."

"I am glad. I have known you in it so long. What good talks we have had here in the old hot
days! I was hot, at least, and you bore with me. Land Reform--Church Reform--Wages Reform--we
have threshed them all out in this room. Do you remember that night I kept you up till it was
too late to go to bed, talking over my Church plans? How full I was of it!--the Church that
was to be the people--reflecting their life, their differences--governed by them--growing with
them. You wouldn't join it, Aldous--our poor little Association!"

Aldous's strong lip quivered.

"Let me think of something I did join in," he said.

Hallin's look shone on him with a wonderful affection.

"Was there anything else you didn't help in? I don't remember it. I've dragged you into most
things. You never minded failure. And I have not had so much of it--not till this last. This
has been failure--absolute and complete."

But there was no darkening of expression. He sat quietly smiling.

"Do you suppose anybody who could look beyond the moment would dream of calling it failure?"
said Aldous, with difficulty.

Hallin shook his head gently, and was silent for a little time, gathering strength and breath
again.

"I ought to suffer"--he said, presently. "Last week I dreaded my own feeling if I should fail
or break down--more than the failure itself. But since yesterday--last night--I have no more
regrets. I see that my power is gone--that if I were to live I could no longer carry on the
battle--or my old life. I am out of touch. Those whom I love and would serve, put me aside.
Those who invite me, I do not care to join. So I drop--into the gulf--and the pageant rushes
on. But the curious thing is now--I have no suffering. And as to the future--do you remember
Jowett in the Introduction to the Phaedo--"

He feebly pointed to a book beside him, which Aldous took up.

"It is so with me," said Hallin, smiling, as, at his gesture, Aldous laid the book aside; "yet
not quite. To my mind, that mystery indeed is all unknown and dark--but to the heart it seems
unveiled--with the heart, I see."

A little later Aldous was startled to hear him say, very clearly and quickly:

"Do you remember that this is the fifth of October?"

Aldous drew his chair closer, that he might not raise his voice.

"Yes, Ned."

"Two years, wasn't it, to-day? Will you forgive me if I speak of her?"

"You shall say anything you will."

"Did you notice that piece of news I sent you, in my last letter to Geneva? But of course you
did. Did it please you?"

"Yes, I was glad of it," said Aldous, after a pause, "extremely glad. I thought she had escaped
a great danger."

Hallin studied his face closely.

"She is free, Aldous--and she is a noble creature--she has learnt from life--and from death--this
last two years. And--you still love her. Is it right to make no more effort?"

Aldous saw the perspiration standing on the wasted brow--would have given the world to be able
to content or cheer him--yet would not, for the world, at such a moment be false to his own
feeling or deceive his questioner.

"I think it is right," he said deliberately, "--for a good many reasons, Edward. In the first
place I have not the smallest cause--not the fraction of a cause--to suppose that I could occupy
with her now any other ground than that I occupied two years ago. She has been kind and friendly
to me--on the whole--since we met in London. She has even expressed regret for last year--meaning,
of course, as I understood, for the pain and trouble that may be said to have come from her
not knowing her own mind. She wished that we should be friends. And"--he turned his head away--"no
doubt I could be, in time.... But, you see--in all that, there is nothing whatever to bring
me forward again. My fatal mistake last year, I think now, lay in my accepting what she gave
me--accepting it so readily, so graspingly even. That was my fault, my blindness, and--it was
as unjust to her--as it was hopeless for myself. For hers is a nature"--his eyes came back
to his friend; his voice took a new force and energy--"which, in love at any rate, will give
all or nothing--and will never be happy itself, or bring happiness, till it gives all. That
is what last year taught me. So that even if she--out of kindness or remorse for giving pain--were
willing to renew the old tie--I should be her worst enemy and my own if I took a single step
towards it. Marriage on such terms as I was thankful for last year, would be humiliation to
me, and bring no gain to her. It will never serve a man with her"--his voice broke into emotion--"that
he should make no claims! Let him claim the uttermost far-thing--her whole self. If she gives
it, then he may know what love means!"

Hallin had listened intently. At Aldous's last words his expression showed pain and perplexity.
His mind was full of vague impressions, memories, which seemed to argue with and dispute one
of the chief things Aldous had been saying. But they were not definite enough to be put forward.
His sensitive chivalrous sense, even in this extreme weakness, remembered the tragic weight
that attaches inevitably to dying words. Let him not do more harm than good.

He rested a little. They brought him food; and Aldous sat beside him making pretence to read,
so that he might be encouraged to rest. His sister came and went; so did the doctor. But when
they were once more alone, Hallin put out his hand and touched his companion.

"What is it, dear Ned?"

"Only one thing more, before we leave it. Is that all that stands between you now--the whole?
You spoke to me once in the summer of feeling angry, more angry than you could have believed.
Of course, I felt the same. But just now you spoke of its all being your fault. Is there anything
changed in your mind?"

Aldous hesitated. It was extraordinarily painful to him to speak of the past, and it troubled
him that at such a moment it should trouble Hallin.

"There is nothing changed, Ned, except that perhaps time makes some difference always. I don't
want now"--he tried to smile--"as I did then, to make anybody else suffer for my suffering.
But perhaps I marvel even more than I did at first, that--that--she could have allowed some
things to happen as she did!"

The tone was firm and vibrating; and, in speaking, the whole face had developed a strong animation
most passionate and human.

Hallin sighed.

"I often think," he said, "that she was extraordinarily immature--much more immature than most
girls of that age--as to feeling. It was really the brain that was alive."

Aldous silently assented; so much so that Hallin repented himself.

"But not now," he said, in his eager dying whisper; "not now. The plant is growing full and
tall, into the richest life."

Aldous took the wasted hand tenderly in his own. There was something inexpressibly touching
in this last wrestle of Hallin's affection with another's grief. But it filled Aldous with
a kind of remorse, and with the longing to free him from that, as from every other burden,
in these last precious hours of life. And at last he succeeded, as he thought, in drawing his
mind away from it. They passed to other things. Hallin, indeed, talked very little more during
the day. He was very restless and weak, but not in much positive suffering. Aldous read to
him at intervals, from Isaiah or Plato, the bright sleepless eyes following every word.

At last the light began to sink. The sunset flooded in from the Berkshire uplands and the far
Oxford plain, and lay in gold and purple on the falling woods and the green stretches of the
park. The distant edges of hill were extraordinarily luminous and clear, and Aldous, looking
into the west with the eye of one to whom every spot and line were familiar landmarks, could
almost fancy he saw beyond the invisible river, the hill, the "lovely tree against the western
sky," which keep for ever the memory of one with whose destiny it had often seemed to him that
Hallin's had something in common. To him, as to Thyrsis, the same early joy, the same "happy
quest," the same "fugitive and gracious light" for guide and beacon, that--

  does not come with houses or with gold,
  With place, with honour and a flattering crew;

and to him, too, the same tasked pipe and tired throat, the same struggle with the "life of
men unblest," the same impatient tryst with death.

The lovely lines ran dirge-like in his head, as he sat, sunk in grief, beside his friend. Hallin
did not speak; but his eye took note of every change of light, of every darkening tone, as
the quiet English scene with its villages, churches, and woods, withdrew itself plane by plane
into the evening haze. His soul followed the quiet deer, the homing birds, loosening itself
gently the while from pain and from desire, saying farewell to country, to the poor, to the
work left undone, and the hopes unrealised--to everything except to love.

It had just struck six when he bent forward to the window beneath which ran the wide front terrace.

"That was her step!" he said, while his face lit up, "will you bring her here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Marcella rang the bell at the Court with a fast beating heart. The old butler who came gave
what her shrinking sense thought a forbidding answer to her shy greeting of him, and led her
first into the drawing-room. A small figure in deep black rose from a distant chair and came
forward stiffly. Marcella found herself shaking hands with Miss Raeburn.

"Will you sit and rest a little before you go upstairs?" said that lady with careful politeness,
"or shall I send word at once? He is hardly worse--but as ill as he can be."

"I am not the least tired," said Marcella, and Miss Raeburn rang.

"Tell his lordship, please, that Miss Boyce is here."

The title jarred and hurt Marcella's ear. But she had scarcely time to catch it before Aldous
entered, a little bent, as it seemed to her, from his tall erectness, and speaking with an
extreme quietness, even monotony of manner.

"He is waiting for you--will you come at once?"

He led her up the central staircase and along the familiar passages, walking silently a little
in front of her. They passed the long line of Caroline and Jacobean portraits in the upper
gallery, till just outside his own door Aldous paused.

"He ought not to talk long," he said, hesitating, "but you will know--of course--better than
any of us."

"I will watch him," she said, almost inaudibly, and he gently opened the door and let her pass,
shutting it behind her.

The nurse, who was sitting beside her patient, got up as Marcella entered, and pointed her
to a low chair on his further side. Susie Hallin rose too, and kissed the new-comer hurriedly,
absently, without a word, lest she should sob. Then she and the nurse disappeared through an
inner door. The evening light was still freely admitted; and there were some candles. By the
help of both she could only see him indistinctly. But in her own mind, as she sat down, she
determined that he had not even days to live.

Yet as she bent over him she saw a playful gleam on the cavernous face.

"You won't scold me?" said the changed voice--"you did warn me--you and Susie--but--I was obstinate.
It was best so!"

She pressed her lips to his hand and was answered by a faint pressure from the cold fingers.

"If I could have been there!" she murmured.

"No--I am thankful you were not. And I must not think of it--or of any trouble. Aldous is very
bitter--but he will take comfort by and by--he will see it--and them--more justly. They meant
me no unkindness. They were full of an idea, as I was. When I came back to myself--first--all
was despair. I was in a blank horror of myself and life. Now it has gone--I don't know how.
It is not of my own will--some hand has lifted a weight. I seem to float--without pain."

He closed his eyes, gathering strength again in the interval, by a strong effort of will--calling
up in the dimming brain what he had to say. She meanwhile, spoke to him in a low voice, mainly
to prevent his talking, telling him of her father, of her mother's strain of nursing--of herself--she
hardly knew what. Hew grotesque to be giving him these little bits of news about strangers--to
him, this hovering, consecrated soul, on the brink of the great secret!

In the intervals, while he was still silent, she could not sometimes prevent the pulse of her
own life from stirring. Her eye wandered round the room--Aldous's familiar room. There, on
the writing-table with its load of letters and books, stood the photograph of Hallin; another,
her own, used to stand beside it; it was solitary now.

Otherwise, all was just as it had been--flowers, books, newspapers--the signs of familiar occupation,
the hundred small details of character and personality which in estrangement take to themselves
such a smarting significance for the sad and craving heart. The date--the anniversary--echoed
in her mind.

Then, with a rush of remorseful pain, her thoughts came back to the present and to Hallin.
At the same moment she saw that his eyes were open, and fixed upon her with a certain anxiety
and expectancy. He made a movement as though to draw her towards him; and she stooped to him.

"I feel," he said, "as though my strength were leaving me fast. Let me ask you one question--because
of my love for you--and him. I have fancied--of late--things were changed. Can you tell me--will
you?--or is it unfair?"--the words had all their bright, natural intonation--"Is your heart--still
where it was?--or, could you ever--undo the past--"

He held her fast, grasping the hand she had given him with unconscious force. She had looked
up startled, her lip trembling like a child's. Then she dropped her head against the arm of
her chair, as though she could not speak.

He moved restlessly, and sighed.

"I should not," he said to himself; "I should not--it was wrong. The dying are tyrannous."

He even began a word of sweet apology. But she shook her head.

"Don't!" she said, struggling with herself; "don't say that! It would do me good to speak--to
you--"

An exquisite smile dawned on Hallin's face.

"Then!"--he said--"confess!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A few minutes later they were still sitting together. She strongly wished to go; but he would
not yet allow it. His face was full of a mystical joy--a living faith, which must somehow communicate
itself in one last sacramental effort.

"How strange that you--and I--and he--should have been so mixed together in this queer life.
Now I seem to regret nothing--I hope everything. One more little testimony let me bear!--the
last. We disappear one by one--into the dark--but each may throw his comrades--a token--before
he goes. You have been in much trouble of mind and spirit--I have seen it. Take my poor witness.
There is one clue, one only--goodness--the surrendered will. Everything is there--all faith--all
religion--all hope for rich or poor.--Whether we feel our way through consciously to the Will--that
asks our will--matters little. Aldous and I have differed much on this--in words--never at
heart! I could use words, symbols he cannot--and they have given me peace. But half my best
life I owe to him."

At this he made a long pause--but, still, through that weak grasp, refusing to let her go--till
all was said. Day was almost gone; the stars had come out over the purple dusk of the park.

"That Will--we reach--through duty and pain," he whispered at last, so faintly she could hardly
hear him, "is the root, the source. It leads us in living--it--carries us in death. But our
weakness and vagueness--want help--want the human life and voice--to lean on--to drink from.
We Christians--are orphans--without Christ! There again--what does it matter what we think--about
him--if only we think--of him. In one such life are all mysteries, and all knowledge--and our
fathers have chosen for us--"

The insistent voice sank lower and lower into final silence--though the lips still moved. The
eyelids too fell. Miss Hallin and the nurse came in. Marcella rose and stood for one passionate
instant looking down upon him. Then, with a pressure of the hand to the sister beside her,
she stole out. Her one prayer was that she might see and meet no one. So soft was her step
that even the watching Aldous did not hear her. She lifted the heavy latch of the outer door
without the smallest noise, and found herself alone in the starlight.

       *       *       *       *       *

After Marcella left him, Hallin remained for some hours in what seemed to those about him a
feverish trance. He did not sleep, but he showed no sign of responsive consciousness. In reality
his mind all through was full of the most vivid though incoherent images and sensations. But
he could no longer distinguish between them and the figures and movements of the real people
in his room. Each passed into and intermingled with the other. In some vague, eager way he
seemed all the time to be waiting or seeking for Aldous. There was the haunting impression
of some word to say--some final thing to do--which would not let him rest. But something seemed
always to imprison him, to hold him back, and the veil between him and the real Aldous watching
beside him grew ever denser.

At night they made no effort to move him from the couch and the half-sitting posture in which
he had passed the day. Death had come too near. His sister and Aldous and the young doctor
who had brought him from London watched with him. The curtains were drawn back from both the
windows, and in the clearness of the first autumnal frost a crescent moon hung above the woods,
the silvery lawns, the plain.

Not long after midnight Hallin seemed to himself to wake, full of purpose and of strength.
He spoke, as he thought, to Aldous, asking to be alone with him. But Aldous did not move; that
sad watching gaze of his showed no change. Then Hallin suffered a sudden sharp spasm of anguish
and of struggle. Three words to say--only three words; but those he must say! He tried again,
but Aldous's dumb grief still sat motionless. Then the thought leapt in the ebbing sense, "Speech
is gone; I shall speak no more!"

It brought with it a stab, a quick revolt. But something checked both, and in a final offering
of the soul, Hallin gave up his last desire.

What Aldous saw was only that the dying man opened his hand as though it asked for that of
his friend. He placed his own within those seeking fingers, and Hallin's latest movement--which
death stopped half-way--was to raise it to his lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Marcella's confession--made in the abandonment, the blind passionate trust, of a supreme
moment--bore no fruit. It went with Hallin to the grave.

CHAPTER III.

"I think I saw the letters arrive," said Mrs. Boyce to her daughter. "And Donna Margherita
seems to be signalling to us."

"Let me go for them, mamma."

"No, thank you, I must go in."

And Mrs. Boyce rose from her seat, and went slowly towards the hotel. Marcella watched her
widow's cap and black dress as they passed along the pergola of the hotel garden, between bright
masses of geraniums and roses on either side.

They had been sitting in the famous garden of the Cappucini Hotel at Amalfi. To Marcella's
left, far below the high terrace of the hotel, the green and azure of the Salernian gulf shone
and danced in the sun, to her right a wood of oak and arbutus stretched up into a purple cliff--a
wood starred above with gold and scarlet berries, and below with cyclamen and narcissus. From
the earth under the leafy oaks--for the oaks at Amalfi lose and regain their foliage in winter
and spring by imperceptible gradations--came a moist English smell. The air was damp and warm.
A convent bell tolled from invisible heights above the garden; while the olives and vines close
at hand were full of the chattering voices of gardeners and children, and broken here and there
by clouds of pink almond-blossom. March had just begun, and the afternoons were fast lengthening.
It was little more than a fortnight since Mr. Boyce's death. In the November of the preceding
year Mrs. Boyce and Marcella had brought him to Naples by sea, and there, at a little villa
on Posilippo, he had drawn sadly to his end. It had been a dreary time, from which Marcella
could hardly hope that her mother would ever fully recover. She herself had found in the long
months of nursing--nursing of which, with quiet tenacity, she had gradually claimed and obtained
her full share--a deep moral consolation. They had paid certain debts to conscience, and they
had for ever enshrined her father's memory in the silence of an unmeasured and loving pity.

But the wife? Marcella sorely recognised that to her mother these last days had brought none
of the soothing, reconciling influences they had involved for herself. Between the husband
and wife there had been dumb friction and misery--surely also a passionate affection!--to the
end. The invalid's dependence on her had been abject, her devotion wonderful. Yet, in her close
contact with them, the daughter had never been able to ignore the existence between them of
a wretched though tacit debate--reproach on his side, self-defence or spasmodic effort on hers--which
seemed to have its origin deep in the past, yet to be stimulated afresh by a hundred passing
incidents of the present. Under the blight of it, as under the physical strain of nursing,
Mrs. Boyce had worn and dwindled to a white-haired shadow; while he had both clung to life
and feared death more than would normally have been the case. At the end he had died in her
arms, his head on her breast; she had closed his eyes and performed every last office without
a tear; nor had Marcella ever seen her weep from then till now. The letters she had received,
mostly, Marcella believed, from her own family, remained unopened in her travelling-bag. She
spoke very little, and was constantly restless, nor could Marcella as yet form any idea of
the future.

After the funeral at Naples Mrs. Boyce had written immediately to her husband's solicitor for
a copy of his will and a statement of affairs. She had then allowed herself to be carried off
to Amalfi, and had there, while entirely declining to admit that she was ill, been clearly
doing her best to recover health and nerve sufficient to come to some decision, to grapple
with some crisis which Marcella also felt to be impending--though as to why it should be impending,
or what the nature of it might be, she could only dread and guess.

There was much bitter yearning in the girl's heart as she sat, breathed on by the soft Italian
wind blowing from this enchanted sea. The inner cry was that her mother did not love her, had
never loved her, and might even now--weird, incredible thought!--be planning to desert her.
Hallin was dead--who else was there that cared for her or thought of her? Betty Macdonald wrote
often, wild, "schwärmerisch" letters. Marcella looked for them with eagerness, and answered
them affectionately. But Betty must soon marry, and then all that would be at an end. Meanwhile
Marcella knew well it was Betty's news that made Betty's adoration doubly welcome. Aldous Raeburn--she
never did or could think of him under his new name--was apparently in London, much occupied
in politics, and constantly, as it seemed, in Betty's society. What likelihood was there that
her life and his would ever touch again? She thought often of her confession to Hallin, but
in great perplexity of feeling. She had, of course, said no word of secrecy to him at the time.
Such a demand in a man's last hour would have been impossible. She had simply followed a certain
mystical love and obedience in telling him what he asked to know, and in the strong spontaneous
impulse had thought of nothing beyond. Afterwards her pride had suffered fresh martyrdom. Could
he, with his loving instinct, have failed to give his friend some sign? If so, it had been
unwelcome, for since the day of Hallin's funeral she and Aldous had been more complete strangers
than before. Lady Winterbourne, Betty, Frank Leven, had written since her father's death; but
from him, nothing.

By the way, Frank Leven had succeeded at Christmas, by old Sir Charles Leven's unexpected death,
to the baronetcy and estates. How would that affect his chances with Betty?--if indeed there
were any such chances left.

As to her own immediate future, Marcella knew from many indications that Mellor would be hers
at once. But in her general tiredness of mind and body she was far more conscious of the burden
of her inheritance than of its opportunities. All that vivid castle-building gift which was
specially hers, and would revive, was at present in abeyance. She had pined once for power
and freedom, that she might make a Kingdom of Heaven of her own, quickly. Now power and freedom,
up to a certain point, were about to be put into her hands; and instead of plans for acting
largely and bountifully on a plastic outer world, she was saying to herself, hungrily, that
unless she had something close to her to love and live for, she could do nothing. If her mother
would end these unnatural doubts, if she would begin to make friends with her own daughter,
and only yield herself to be loved and comforted, why then it might be possible to think of
the village and the straw-plaiting! Otherwise--the girl's attitude as she sat dreaming in the
sun showed her despondency.

She was roused by her mother's voice calling her from the other end of the pergola.

"Yes, mamma."

"Will you come in? There are some letters."

"It is the will," thought Marcella, as Mrs. Boyce turned back to the hotel, and she followed.

Mrs. Boyce shut the door of their sitting-room, and then went up to her daughter with a manner
which suddenly struck and startled Marcella. There was natural agitation and trouble in it.

"There is something in the will, Marcella, which will, I fear, annoy and distress you. Your
father inserted it without consulting me. I want to know what you think ought to be done. You
will find that Lord Maxwell and I have been appointed joint executors."

Marcella turned pale.

"Lord Maxwell!" she said, bewildered. "Lord Maxwell--Aldous! What do you mean, mamma?"

Mrs. Boyce put the will into her hands, and, pointing the way among the technicalities she
had been perusing while Marcella was still lingering in the garden, showed her the paragraph
in question. The words of the will were merely formal: "I hereby appoint," &c., and no more;
but in a communication from the family solicitor, Mr. French, which Mrs. Boyce silently handed
to her daughter after she had read the legal disposition, the ladies were informed that Mr.
Boyce had, before quitting England, written a letter to Lord Maxwell, duly sealed and addressed,
with instructions that it should be forwarded to its destination immediately after the writer's
burial. "Those instructions," said Mr. French, "I have carried out. I understand that Lord
Maxwell was not consulted as to his appointment as executor prior to the drawing up of the
will. But you will no doubt hear from him at once, and as soon as we know that he consents
to act, we can proceed immediately to probate."

"Mamma, how could he?" said Marcella, in a low, suffocated voice, letting will and letter fall
upon her knee.

"Did he give you no warning in that talk you had with him at Mellor?" said Mrs. Boyce, after
a minute's silence.

"Not the least," said Marcella, rising restlessly and beginning to walk up and down. "He spoke
to me about wishing to bring it on again--asked me to let him write. I told him it was all
done with--for ever! As to my own feelings, I felt it was no use to speak of them; but I thought--I
believed, I had proved to him that Lord Maxwell had absolutely given up all idea of such a
thing; and that it was already probable he would marry some one else. I told him I would rather
disappear from every one I knew than consent to it--he could only humiliate us all by saying
a word. And now, after that!--"

She stopped in her restless walk, pressing her hands miserably together.

"What does he want with us and our affairs?" she broke out. "He wishes, of course, to have
no more to do with me. And now we force him--force him into these intimate relations. What
can papa have said in that letter to him? What can he have said? Oh! it is unbearable! Can't
we write at once?"

She pressed her hands over her eyes in a passion of humiliation and disgust. Mrs. Boyce watched
her closely.

"We must wait, anyway, for his letter," she said. "It ought to be here by to-morrow morning."

Marcella sank on a chair by an open glass door, her eyes wandering, through the straggling
roses growing against the wall of the stone balcony outside, to the laughing purples and greens
of the sea.

"Of course," she said unhappily, "it is most probable he will consent. It would not be like
him to refuse. But, mamma, you must write. I must write and beg him not to do it. It is quite
simple. We can manage everything for ourselves. Oh! how could papa?" she broke out again in
a low wail, "how could he?"

Mrs. Boyce's lips tightened sharply. It seemed to her a foolish question. She, at least, had
had the experience of twenty years out of which to answer it. Death had made no difference.
She saw her husband's character and her own seared and broken life with the same tragical clearness;
she felt the same gnawing of an affection not to be plucked out while the heart still beat.
This act of indelicacy and injustice was like many that had gone before it; and there was in
it the same evasion and concealment towards herself. No matter. She had made her account with
it all twenty years before. What astonished her was, that the force of her strong coercing
will had been able to keep him for so long within the limits of the smaller and meaner immoralities
of this world.

"Have you read the rest of the will?" she asked, after a long pause.

Marcella lifted it again, and began listlessly to go through it.

"Mamma!" she said presently, looking up, the colour flushing back into her face, "I find no
mention of you in it throughout. There seems to be no provision for you."

"There is none," said Mrs. Boyce, quietly. "There was no need. I have my own income. We lived
upon it for years before your father succeeded to Mellor. It is therefore amply sufficient
for me now."

"You cannot imagine," cried Marcella, trembling in every limb, "that I am going to take the
whole of my father's estate, and leave nothing--nothing for his wife. It would be impossible--unseemly.
It would be to do me an injustice, mamma, as well as yourself," she added proudly.

"No, I think not," said Mrs. Boyce, with her usual cold absence of emotion. "You do not yet
understand the situation. Your father's misfortunes nearly ruined the estate for a time. Your
grandfather went through great trouble, and raised large sums to--" she paused for the right
phrase--"to free us from the consequences of your father's actions. I benefited, of course,
as much as he did. Those sums crippled all your grandfather's old age. He was a man to whom
I was attached--whom I respected. Mellor, I believe, had never been embarrassed before. Well,
your uncle did a little towards recovery--but on the whole he was a fool. Your father has done
much more, and you, no doubt, will complete it. As for me, I have no claim to anything more
from Mellor. The place itself is"--again she stopped for a word of which the energy, when it
came, seemed to escape her--"hateful to me. I shall feel freer if I have no tie to it. And
at last I persuaded your father to let me have my way."

Marcella rose from her seat impetuously, walked quickly across the room, and threw herself
on her knees beside her mother.

"Mamma, are you still determined--now that we two are alone in the world--to act towards me,
to treat me as though I were not your daughter--not your child at all, but a stranger?"

It was a cry of anguish. A sudden slight tremor swept over Mrs. Boyce's thin and withered face.
She braced herself to the inevitable.

"Don't let us make a tragedy of it, my dear," she said, with a light touch on Marcella's hands.
"Let us discuss it reasonably. Won't you sit down? I am not proposing anything very dreadful.
But, like you, I have some interests of my own, and I should be glad to follow them--now--a
little. I wish to spend some of the year in London; to make that, perhaps, my headquarters,
so as to see something of some old friends whom I have had no intercourse with for years--perhaps
also of my relations." She spoke of them with a particular dryness. "And I should be glad--after
this long time--to be somewhat taken out of oneself, to read, to hear what is going on, to
feed one's mind a little."

Marcella, looking at her, saw a kind of feverish light, a sparkling intensity in the pale blue
eyes, that filled her with amazement. What, after all, did she know of this strange individuality
from which her own being had taken its rise? The same flesh and blood--what an irony of nature!

"Of course," continued Mrs. Boyce, "I should go to you, and you would come to me. It would
only be for part of the year. Probably we should get more from each other's lives so. As you
know, I long to see things as they are, not conventionally. Anyway, whether I were there or
no, you would probably want some companion to help you in your work and plans. I am not fit
for them. And it would be easy to find some one who could act as chaperon in my absence."

The hot tears sprang to Marcella's eyes. "Why did you send me away from you, mamma, all my
childhood," she cried. "It was wrong--cruel. I have no brother or sister. And you put me out
of your life when I had no choice, when I was too young to understand."

Mrs. Boyce winced, but made no reply. She sat with her delicate hand across her brow. She was
the white shadow of her former self; but her fragility had always seemed to Marcella more indomitable
than anybody else's strength.

Sobs began to rise in Marcella's throat.

"And now," she said, in half-coherent despair, "do you know what you are doing? You are cutting
yourself off from me--refusing to have any real bond to me just when I want it most. I suppose
you think that I shall be satisfied with the property and the power, and the chance of doing
what I like. But"--she tried her best to gulp back her pain, her outraged feeling, to speak
quietly--"I am not like that really any more. I can take it all up, with courage and heart,
if you will stay with me, and let me--let me--love you and care for you. But, by myself, I
feel as if I could not face it! I am not likely to be happy--for a long time--except in doing
what work I can. It is very improbable that I shall marry. I dare say you don't believe me,
but it is true. We are both sad and lonely. We have no one but each other. And then you talk
in this ghastly way of separating from me--casting me off."

Her voice trembled and broke, she looked at her mother with a frowning passion.

Mrs. Boyce still sat silent, studying her daughter with a strange, brooding eye. Under her
unnatural composure there was in reality a half-mad impatience, the result of physical and
moral reaction. This beauty, this youth, talk of sadness, of finality! What folly! Still, she
was stirred, undermined in spite of herself.

"There!" she said, with a restless gesture, "let us, please, talk of it no more. I will come
back with you--I will do my best. We will let the matter of my future settlement alone for
some months, at any rate, if that will satisfy you or be any help to you."

She made a movement as though to rise from her low chair. But the great waters swelled in Marcella--swelled
and broke. She fell on her knees again by her mother, and before Mrs. Boyce could stop her
she had thrown her young arms close round the thin, shrunken form.

"Mother!" she said. "Mother, be good to me--love me--you are all I have!"

And she kissed the pale brow and cheek with a hungry, almost a violent tenderness that would
not be gainsaid, murmuring wild incoherent things.

Mrs. Boyce first tried to put her away, then submitted, being physically unable to resist,
and at last escaped from her with a sudden sob that went to the girl's heart. She rose, went
to the window, struggled hard for composure, and finally left the room.

But that evening, for the first time, she let Marcella put her on the sofa, tend her, and read
to her. More wonderful still, she went to sleep while Marcella was reading. In the lamplight
her face looked piteously old and worn. The girl sat for long with her hands clasped round
her knees, gazing down upon it, in a trance of pain and longing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marcella was awake early next morning, listening to the full voice of the sea as it broke three
hundred feet below, against the beach and rocky walls of the little town. She was lying in
a tiny white room, one of the cells of the old monastery, and the sun as it rose above the
Salernian mountains--the mountains that hold Paestum in their blue and purple shadows--danced
in gold on the white wall. The bell of the cathedral far below tolled the hour. She supposed
it must be six o'clock. Two hours more or so, and Lord Maxwell's letter might be looked for.

She lay and thought of it--longed for it, and for the time of answering it, with the same soreness
that had marked all the dreams of a restless night. If she could only see her father's letter!
It was inconceivable that he should have mentioned her name in his plea. He might have appealed
to the old friendship between the families. That was possible, and would have, at any rate,
an appearance of decency. But who could answer for it--or for him? She clasped her hands rigidly
behind her head, her brows frowning, bending her mind with an intensity of will to the best
means of assuring Aldous Raeburn that she and her mother would not encroach upon him. She had
a perpetual morbid vision of herself as the pursuer, attacking him now through his friend,
now through her father. Oh! when would that letter come, and let her write her own!

She tried to read, but in reality listened for every sound of awakening life in the hotel.
When at last her mother's maid came in to call her, she sprang up with a start.

"Deacon, are the letters come?"

"There are two for your mother, miss; none for you."

Marcella threw on her dressing-gown, watched her opportunity, and slipped in to her mother,
who occupied a similar cell next door.

Mrs. Boyce was sitting up in bed, with a letter before her, her pale blue eyes fixed absently
on the far stretch of sea.

She looked round with a start as Marcella entered. "The letter is to me, of course," she said.

Marcella read it breathlessly.

"Dear Mrs. Boyce,--I have this morning received from your solicitor, Mr. French, a letter written
by Mr. Boyce to myself in November of last year. In it he asks me to undertake the office of
executor, to which, I hear from Mr. French, he has named me in his will. Mr. French also enquires
whether I shall be willing to act, and asks me to communicate with you.

"May I, then, venture to intrude upon you with these few words? Mr. Boyce refers in his touching
letter to the old friendship between our families, and to the fact that similar offices have
often been performed by his relations for mine, or vice versa. But no reminder of the kind
was in the least needed. If I can be of any service to yourself and to Miss Boyce, neither
your poor husband nor you could do me any greater kindness than to command me.

"I feel naturally some diffidence in the matter. I gather from Mr. French that Miss Boyce is
her father's heiress, and comes at once into the possession of Mellor. She may not, of course,
wish me to act, in which case I should withdraw immediately; but I sincerely trust that she
will not forbid me the very small service I could so easily and gladly render.

"I cannot close my letter without venturing to express the deep sympathy I have felt for you
and yours during the past six months. I have been far from forgetful of all that you have been
going through, though I may have seemed so. I trust that you and your daughter will not hurry
home for any business cause, if it is still best for your health to stay in Italy. With your
instructions Mr. French and I could arrange everything.

  "Believe me,

  "Yours most sincerely,

  "MAXWELL."

"You will find it difficult, my dear, to write a snub in answer to that letter," said Mrs.
Boyce, drily, as Marcella laid it down.

Marcella's face was, indeed, crimson with perplexity and feeling.

"Well, we can think it over," she said as she went away.

Mrs. Boyce pondered the matter a good deal when she was left alone. The signs of reaction and
change in Marcella were plain enough. What they precisely meant, and how much, was another
matter. As to him, Marcella's idea of another attachment might be true, or might be merely
the creation of her own irritable pride. Anyway, he was in the mood to write a charming letter.
Mrs. Boyce's blanched lip had all its natural irony as she thought it over. To her mind Aldous
Raeburn's manners had always been a trifle too good, whether for his own interests or for this
wicked world. And if he had any idea now of trying again, let him, for Heaven's sake, not be
too yielding or too eager! "It was always the way," thought Mrs. Boyce, remembering a child
in white frock and baby shoes--"if you wished to make her want anything, you had to take it
away from her."

Meanwhile the mere thought that matters might even yet so settle themselves drew from the mother
a long breath of relief. She had spent an all but sleepless night, tormented by Marcella's
claim upon her. After twenty years of self-suppression this woman of forty-five, naturally
able, original, and independent, had seen a glimpse of liberty. In her first youth she had
been betrayed as a wife, degraded as a member of society. A passion she could not kill, combined
with some stoical sense of inalienable obligation, had combined to make her both the slave
and guardian of her husband up to middle life; and her family and personal pride, so strong
in her as a girl, had found its only outlet in this singular estrangement she had achieved
between herself and every other living being, including her own daughter. Now her husband was
dead, and all sorts of crushed powers and desires, mostly of the intellectual sort, had been
strangely reviving within her. Just emerged, as she was, from the long gloom of nursing, she
already wished to throw it all behind her--to travel, to read, to make acquaintances--she who
had lived as a recluse for twenty years! There was in it a last clutch at youth, at life. And
she had no desire to enter upon this new existence--in comradeship with Marcella. They were
independent and very different human beings. That they were mother and daughter was a mere
physical accident.

Moreover, though she was amply conscious of the fine development in Marcella during the past
two years, it is probable that she felt her daughter even less congenial to her now than of
old. For the rich, emotional nature had, as we have seen, "suffered conviction," had turned
in the broad sense to "religion," was more and more sensitive, especially since Hallin's death,
to the spiritual things and symbols in the world. At Naples she had haunted churches; had read,
as her mother knew, many religious books.

Now Mrs. Boyce in these matters had a curious history. She had begun life as an ardent Christian,
under evangelical influences. Her husband, on the other hand, at the time she married him was
a man of purely sceptical opinions, a superficial disciple of Mill and Comte, and fond of an
easy profanity which seemed to place him indisputably with the superior persons of this world.
To the amazement and scandal of her friends, Evelyn Merritt had not been three months his wife
before she had adopted his opinions en bloc, and was carrying them out to their logical ends
with a sincerity and devotion quite unknown to her teacher. Thenceforward her conception of
things--of which, however, she seldom spoke--had been actively and even vehemently rationalist;
and it had been one of the chief sorenesses and shames of her life at Mellor that, in order
to suit his position as country squire, Richard Boyce had sunk to what, in her eyes, were a
hundred mean compliances with things orthodox and established.

Then, in his last illness, he had finally broken away from her, and his own past. "Evelyn,
I should like to see a clergyman," he had said to her in his piteous voice, "and I shall ask
him to give me the Sacrament." She had made every arrangement accordingly; but her bitter soul
could see nothing in the step but fear and hypocrisy; and he knew it. And as he lay talking
alone with the man whom they had summoned, two or three nights before the end, she, sitting
in the next room, had been conscious of a deep and smarting jealousy. Had not the hard devotion
of twenty years made him at least her own? And here was this black-coated reciter of incredible
things stepping into her place. Only in death she recovered him wholly. No priest interfered
while he drew his last breath upon her bosom.

And now Marcella! Yet the girl's voice and plea tugged at her withered heart. She felt a dread
of unknown softnesses--of being invaded and weakened by things in her akin to her daughter,
and so captured afresh. Her mind fell upon the bare idea of a revival of the Maxwell engagement,
and caressed it.

Meanwhile Marcella stood dressing by the open window in the sunlight, which filled the room
with wavy reflections caught from the sea. Fishing-boats were putting off from the beach, three
hundred feet below her; she could hear the grating of the keels, the songs of the boatmen.
On the little breakwater to the right an artist's white umbrella shone in the sun; and a half-naked
boy, poised on the bows of a boat moored beside the painter, stood bent in the eager attitude
of one about to drop the bait into the blue wave below. His brown back burnt against the water.
Cliff, houses, sea, glowed in warmth and light; the air was full of roses and orange-blossom;
and to an English sense had already the magic of summer.

And Marcella's hands, as she coiled and plaited her black hair, moved with a new lightness;
for the first time since her father's death her look had its normal fire, crossed every now
and then by something that made her all softness and all woman. No! as her mother said, one
could not snub that letter or its writer. But how to answer it! In imagination she had already
penned twenty different replies. How not to be grasping or effusive, and yet to show that you
could feel and repay kindness--there was the problem!

Meanwhile, from that letter, or rather in subtle connection with it, her thoughts at last went
wandering off with a natural zest to her new realm of Mellor, and to all that she would and
could do for the dwellers therein.

CHAPTER IV.

It was a bleak east-wind day towards the end of March. Aldous was at work in the library at
the Court, writing at his grandfather's table, where in general he got through his estate and
county affairs, keeping his old sitting-room upstairs for the pursuits that were more particularly
his own.

All the morning he had been occupied with a tedious piece of local business, wading through
endless documents concerning a dispute between the head-master of a neighbouring grammar-school
and his governing body, of which Aldous was one. The affair was difficult, personal, odious.
To have wasted nearly three hours upon it was, to a man of Aldous's type, to have lost a day.
Besides he had not his grandfather's knack in such things, and was abundantly conscious of it.

However, there it was, a duty which none but he apparently could or would do, and he had been
wrestling with it. With more philosophy than usual, too, since every tick of the clock behind
him bore him nearer to an appointment which, whatever it might be, would not be tedious.

At last he got up and went to the window to look at the weather. A cutting wind, clearly, but
no rain. Then he walked into the drawing-room, calling for his aunt. No one was to be seen,
either there or in the conservatory, and he came back to the library and rang.

"Roberts, has Miss Raeburn gone out?"

"Yes, my lord," said the old butler addressed. "She and Miss Macdonald have gone out driving,
and I was to tell your lordship that Miss Raeburn would drop Miss Macdonald at Mellor on her
way home."

"Is Sir Frank anywhere about?"

"He was in the smoking-room a little while ago, my lord."

"Will you please try and find him?"

"Yes, my lord."

Aldous's mouth twitched with impatience as the old servant shut the door.

"How many times did Roberts manage to be-lord me in a minute?" he asked himself; "yet if I
were to remonstrate, I suppose I should only make him unhappy."

And walking again to the window, he thrust his hands into his pockets and stood looking out
with a far from cheerful countenance.

