 The Foundation is true History, but the turn is Fable: The Action is very
Important, but not uniform; for one can't tell which is the Principal in the Poem, the Wars
of the Angels or the Fall of Man, nor which is the Chief Person Michael or Adam. Its true,
the former comes in as an Episode to the latter, but it takes up too great a part thereof,
because its link'd to it. His Discourse of Light is incomparable; and I think 'twas worth the
while to be blind to be its Author. His Description of Adam and Eve, their Persons and Love,
is almost too lively to bear reading: Not but that he has his inequalities and repetitions,
the latter pretty often, as have, more or less, all other Poets but Virgil. For his antique
Words I'm not like to blame him whoever does: And for his blank Verse, I'm of a different mind
from most others, and think they rather excuse his uncorrectness than the contraries; for I
find its easier to run into it, in that sort of Verse, than in Rhyming Works where the Thought
is oftner turned; whereas here the Fancy flows on, without check or controul. As for his Paradise
Regain'd, I nothing wonder that it has not near the Life of his former Poem, any more than
the Odysses fell short of the Iliads. Milton, when he writ this, was grown Older, probably
poorer: He had not that scope for Fable, was confin'd to a lower Walk, and draws out that in
four Books which might have been well compriz'd in one: Notwithstanding all this, there are
many strokes which appear truly his; as the Mustring of the Parthian Troops, the Description
of Rome by the Devil to our Saviour, and several other places. 

Well, may then, EU must try the way left, which is saintliness. EU has
tried all the ways but either way of the Church, the Art has tried
all the ways but the way of d Savior.

The Church must give an apologia to Europe.
 I don't say the Subject with all
its Circumstances is the best for Epic, but considered in it self, or with a prudent choice
out of the vast Field of Matter which it affords.

The Action is Important, if ever any was, being no less than the Redemption of the World, which
was not accomplish'd till after our Saviours Death and Resurrection. The Ascension I confess
should be left out, according to the common Rules of Heroick Poetry, but I had not the same
reason of omitting it, as others have for not coming to the End of their History, a little
short of which they generally stop, because after the main Business is over, nothing great
remains, or however not greater than has already past. And if any thing mean followed, the
Reader wou'd leave off dissatisfied. But I've as great and remarkable an Action, as any in
the whole story, yet upon my Hands, and which if I had omitted, I had lost many very moving
Incidents that follow'd the Resurrection; and besides, Vida before me, has carry'd it yet further,
to the actual Descent of the Holy Ghost on the Disciples, and the spreading the Christian Name
all the World over; which I have done only in Prophecy.

The Action is I think uniform, because all the Episodes are part of the main Action, the Redemption
of the World; to which his Incarnation, and Divine Conception were absolutely necessary, and
so were his Holy Life, Doctrine, Miracles, and especially his Sufferings and Agonies. My principal
Hero was perfect, yet imitable, and that both in active and contemplative Life. He leaves his
own Kingdom to save and conquer another, endures the greatest hardships, is reduc'd to the
lowest ebb, nay is at last forc'd to suffer Death it self. Yet after all, he emerges from his
Misfortunes, conquers all his Enemies, fixes Laws, establishes Religion, Peace, and his own
Empire, and is advanced higher than any Conquerer ever was before him.

The other Persons are Heroical enough, Angels, Kings, High Priests, Governours, Councellors,
nay even the Apostles themselves were more than Kings, for they were thought and call'd Gods
by the People. The Moral I find not make it, in a true Example, which others are forced to
Form in Fable; "That we ought to do Good, to suffer evil, submit to the Divine Will; to venture
or lose a Life for a Friend; to forgive our Enemies."

Yet further I desire to recommend the whole of the Christian Religion; all the Articles of
Faith; all that System of Divinity and Morality contain'd in the Gospel of the Blessed Jesus,
to the Study and Practice of Persons of Ingenuity and Reason; to make his Divine Person, which
is already infinitely Amiable, if possible, actually more Ador'd and Lov'd; and to Vindicate
his Mission, his Satisfaction, and his Divinity, against all Jews, Turks, Infidels, and Heretics;
which sure are the most proper Ends that can be propos'd in a Work of this Nature: Which may
be agreeably and admirably done, if 'tis not the Poets fault; for here's all the marvellous
that cou'd be wished for, already done to my Hand, and all sacredly True, Angels and Demons,
and Miracles, with Voices from Heaven. 

Beulah counted them out of a field-glass while they were actually miles to the valley, and a table was
set in the bunk-house where the cowboys were accommodated during the season. It was noon when
the party reached the Arthurses'ranch. It was a matter of course that the men should be fed that
they reached Arthurs'. At intervals in the setting with cou table the girl to her field-glass can, until
she was quite mounted down the figure riding beside the policeman.

Being full of the Design wherein, the earnest desire I had to see it accomplish'd, and either
a lucky Chance, or the Happiness of my Subject, may perhaps in some Instances, have supply'd
the want both of Rules and Genius. All I will say of my own performance is, that I now know
the Faults on't, tho I am not oblig'd to point 'em out to my Reader, who will but too soon
find 'em. That I wou'd have mended much that's now amiss, had I lived in an Age where a man
might afford to be Nine or Ten Years about a Poem. And in the Mean time this satisfies me,
whatever is the success, that I've done all that cou'd be done by one in my Circumstances towards
the rendering it more compleat and free from Faults, and only wish that my own Reputation may
suffer, by the weakness of the Work, and not the Dignity of the Subject.

I cou'd plead for my self what Longinus says on Works of this Nature, wou'd it not look like
Arrogance, "That even the greatest Genius may sometimes sink into meanness, when the force
of their Spirits is once exhausted: That its very difficult for height of Thought to sustain
it self long in an equal Tenour; and that some Faults ought to be excused when there are more
Beauties." But if none of these will pass, I hope it will not much mortifie me, since I think
the World and I have no great matter to do with one another. "Times are changing, Beulah. But
if he wound that sack around their neck, i don't want him with it when he's cross." She
laughed a mean, mirthful ripple. We've got to get you away in here. "Then,
not at sudden gravity," but, Jim, we shouldn't be jesting. I had almost forgot to mention the Gravers
Work, which is not without Faults, particularly he has err'd in the Posture of the Disciples
at the last Supper, whom he has made Sitting, when they were really Declining, or Discumbent.
But its now more than time to conclude my long Preface, which I shall do in few Words. Since
the chief Design in this Work, is to advance the Honour of my Hero, and next to that, the entertainment
of Pious and ingenious Minds; for the truth of which, I hope I may appeal to the great [Greek:
kritikos tês kardias]; I shall not be much concern'd for the success it may meet with in the World.