It is so, perhaps, in all countries; perhaps in all, men are most  ignorant of the foreigners
at home.  John Bull is ignorant of the  States; he is probably ignorant of India; but considering
his  opportunities, he is far more ignorant of countries nearer his own  door.  There is one
country, for instance - its frontier not so far  from London, its people closely akin, its
language the same in all  essentials with the English - of which I will go bail he knows  nothing.
His ignorance of the sister kingdom cannot be described;  it can only be illustrated by anecdote.
I once travelled with a  man of plausible manners and good intelligence - a University man,
as the phrase goes - a man, besides, who had taken his degree in  life and knew a thing or
two about the age we live in.  We were  deep in talk, whirling between Peterborough and London;
among other  things, he began to describe some piece of legal injustice he had  recently encountered,
and I observed in my innocence that things  were not so in Scotland.  "I beg your pardon,"
said he, "this is a  matter of law."  He had never heard of the Scots law; nor did he  choose
to be informed.  The law was the same for the whole country,  he told me roundly; every child
knew that.  At last, to settle  matters, I explained to him that I was a member of a Scottish
legal  body, and had stood the brunt of an examination in the very law in  question.  Thereupon
he looked me for a moment full in the face and  dropped the conversation.  This is a monstrous
instance, if you  like, but it does not stand alone in the experience of Scots.

England and Scotland differ, indeed, in law, in history, in  religion, in education, and in
the very look of nature and men's  faces, not always widely, but always trenchantly.  Many
particulars  that struck Mr. Grant White, a Yankee, struck me, a Scot, no less  forcibly; he
and I felt ourselves foreigners on many common  provocations.  A Scotchman may tramp the better
part of Europe and  the United States, and never again receive so vivid an impression  of foreign
travel and strange lands and manners as on his first  excursion into England.  The change from
a hilly to a level country  strikes him with delighted wonder.  Along the flat horizon there
arise the frequent venerable towers of churches.  He sees at the  end of airy vistas the revolution
of the windmill sails.  He may go  where he pleases in the future; he may see Alps, and Pyramids,
and  lions; but it will be hard to beat the pleasure of that moment.   There are, indeed, few
merrier spectacles than that of many  windmills bickering together in a fresh breeze over a
woody  country; their halting alacrity of movement, their pleasant  business, making bread
all day with uncouth gesticulations, their  air, gigantically human, as of a creature half
alive, put a spirit  of romance into the tamest landscape.  When the Scotch child sees  them
first he falls immediately in love; and from that time forward  windmills keep turning in his
dreams.  And so, in their degree,  with every feature of the life and landscape.  The warm,
habitable  age of towns and hamlets, the green, settled, ancient look of the  country; the
lush hedgerows, stiles, and privy path-ways in the  fields; the sluggish, brimming rivers;
chalk and smock-frocks;  chimes of bells and the rapid, pertly-sounding English speech -  they
are all new to the curiosity; they are all set to English airs  in the child's story that he
tells himself at night.  The sharp  edge of novelty wears off; the feeling is scotched, but
I doubt  whether it is ever killed.  Rather it keeps returning, ever the  more rarely and strangely,
and even in scenes to which you have  been long accustomed suddenly awakes and gives a relish
to  enjoyment or heightens the sense of isolation.

One thing especially continues unfamiliar to the Scotchman's eye -  the domestic architecture,
the look of streets and buildings; the  quaint, venerable age of many, and the thin walls and
warm  colouring of all.  We have, in Scotland, far fewer ancient  buildings, above all in country
places; and those that we have are  all of hewn or harled masonry.  Wood has been sparingly
used in  their construction; the window-frames are sunken in the wall, not  flat to the front,
as in England; the roofs are steeper-pitched;  even a hill farm will have a massy, square,
cold and permanent  appearance.  English houses, in comparison, have the look of  cardboard
toys, such as a puff might shatter.  And to this the  Scotchman never becomes used.  His eye
can never rest consciously  on one of these brick houses - rickles of brick, as he might call
them - or on one of these flat-chested streets, but he is instantly  reminded where he is,
and instantly travels back in fancy to his  home.  "This is no my ain house; I ken by the biggin'
o't."  And  yet perhaps it is his own, bought with his own money, the key of it  long polished
in his pocket; but it has not yet, and never will be,  thoroughly adopted by his imagination;
nor does he cease to  remember that, in the whole length and breadth of his native  country,
there was no building even distantly resembling it.

But it is not alone in scenery and architecture that we count  England foreign.  The constitution
of society, the very pillars of  the empire, surprise and even pain us.  The dull, neglected
peasant, sunk in matter, insolent, gross and servile, makes a  startling contrast with our
own long-legged, long-headed,  thoughtful, Bible-quoting ploughman.  A week or two in such
a place  as Suffolk leaves the Scotchman gasping.  It seems incredible that  within the boundaries
of his own island a class should have been  thus forgotten.  Even the educated and intelligent,
who hold our  own opinions and speak in our own words, yet seem to hold them with  a difference
or, from another reason, and to speak on all things  with less interest and conviction.  The
first shock of English  society is like a cold plunge.  It is possible that the Scot comes
looking for too much, and to be sure his first experiment will be  in the wrong direction.
Yet surely his complaint is grounded;  surely the speech of Englishmen is too often lacking
in generous  ardour, the better part of the man too often withheld from the  social commerce,
and the contact of mind with mind evaded as with  terror.  A Scotch peasant will talk more
liberally out of his own  experience.  He will not put you by with conversational counters
and small jests; he will give you the best of himself, like one  interested in life and man's
chief end.  A Scotchman is vain,  interested in himself and others, eager for sympathy, setting
forth  his thoughts and experience in the best light.  The egoism of the  Englishman is self-contained.
He does not seek to proselytise.  He  takes no interest in Scotland or the Scotch, and, what
is the  unkindest cut of all, he does not care to justify his indifference.   Give him the
wages of going on and being an Englishman, that is all  he asks; and in the meantime, while
you continue to associate, he  would rather not be reminded of your baser origin.  Compared
with  the grand, tree-like self-sufficiency of his demeanour, the vanity  and curiosity of
the Scot seem uneasy, vulgar, and immodest.  That  you should continually try to establish
human and serious  relations, that you should actually feel an interest in John Bull,  and
desire and invite a return of interest from him, may argue  something more awake and lively
in your mind, but it still puts you  in the attitude of a suitor and a poor relation.  Thus
even the  lowest class of the educated English towers over a Scotchman by the  head and shoulders.

Different indeed is the atmosphere in which Scotch and English  youth begin to look about them,
come to themselves in life, and  gather up those first apprehensions which are the material
of  future thought and, to a great extent, the rule of future conduct.   I have been to school
in both countries, and I found, in the boys  of the North, something at once rougher and more
tender, at once  more reserve and more expansion, a greater habitual distance  chequered by
glimpses of a nearer intimacy, and on the whole wider  extremes of temperament and sensibility.
The boy of the South  seems more wholesome, but less thoughtful; he gives himself to  games
as to a business, striving to excel, but is not readily  transported by imagination; the type
remains with me as cleaner in  mind and body, more active, fonder of eating, endowed with a
lesser  and a less romantic sense of life and of the future, and more  immersed in present
circumstances.  And certainly, for one thing,  English boys are younger for their age.  Sabbath
observance makes a  series of grim, and perhaps serviceable, pauses in the tenor of  Scotch
boyhood - days of great stillness and solitude for the  rebellious mind, when in the dearth
of books and play, and in the  intervals of studying the Shorter Catechism, the intellect and
senses prey upon and test each other.  The typical English Sunday,  with the huge midday dinner
and the plethoric afternoon, leads  perhaps to different results.  About the very cradle of
the Scot  there goes a hum of metaphysical divinity; and the whole of two  divergent systems
is summed up, not merely speciously, in the two  first questions of the rival catechisms, the
English tritely  inquiring, "What is your name?" the Scottish striking at the very  roots of
life with, "What is the chief end of man?" and answering  nobly, if obscurely, "To glorify
God and to enjoy Him for ever."  I  do not wish to make an idol of the Shorter Catechism; but
the fact  of such a question being asked opens to us Scotch a great field of  speculation;
and the fact that it is asked of all of us, from the  peer to the ploughboy, binds us more
nearly together.  No  Englishman of Byron's age, character, and history would have had  patience
for long theological discussions on the way to fight for  Greece; but the daft Gordon blood
and the Aberdonian school-days  kept their influence to the end.  We have spoken of the material
conditions; nor need much more be said of these: of the land lying  everywhere more exposed,
of the wind always louder and bleaker, of  the black, roaring winters, of the gloom of high-lying,
old stone  cities, imminent on the windy seaboard; compared with the level  streets, the warm
colouring of the brick, the domestic quaintness  of the architecture, among which English children
begin to grow up  and come to themselves in life.  As the stage of the University  approaches,
the contrast becomes more express.  The English lad  goes to Oxford or Cambridge; there, in
an ideal world of gardens,  to lead a semi-scenic life, costumed, disciplined and drilled by
proctors.  Nor is this to be regarded merely as a stage of  education; it is a piece of privilege
besides, and a step that  separates him further from the bulk of his compatriots.  At an  earlier
age the Scottish lad begins his greatly different  experience of crowded class-rooms, of a
gaunt quadrangle, of a bell  hourly booming over the traffic of the city to recall him from
the  public-house where he has been lunching, or the streets where he  has been wandering fancy-free.
His college life has little of  restraint, and nothing of necessary gentility.  He will find
no  quiet clique of the exclusive, studious and cultured; no rotten  borough of the arts. 
All classes rub shoulders on the greasy  benches.  The raffish young gentleman in gloves must
measure his  scholarship with the plain, clownish laddie from the parish school.   They separate,
at the session's end, one to smoke cigars about a  watering-place, the other to resume the
labours of the field beside  his peasant family.  The first muster of a college class in  Scotland
is a scene of curious and painful interest; so many lads,  fresh from the heather, hang round
the stove in cloddish  embarrassment, ruffled by the presence of their smarter comrades,  and
afraid of the sound of their own rustic voices.  It was in  these early days, I think, that
Professor Blackie won the affection  of his pupils, putting these uncouth, umbrageous students
at their  ease with ready human geniality.  Thus, at least, we have a healthy  democratic atmosphere
to breathe in while at work; even when there  is no cordiality there is always a juxtaposition
of the different  classes, and in the competition of study the intellectual power of  each
is plainly demonstrated to the other.  Our tasks ended, we of  the North go forth as freemen
into the humming, lamplit city.  At  five o'clock you may see the last of us hiving from the
college  gates, in the glare of the shop windows, under the green glimmer of  the winter sunset.
The frost tingles in our blood; no proctor lies  in wait to intercept us; till the bell sounds
again, we are the  masters of the world; and some portion of our lives is always  Saturday,
LA TREVE DE DIEU.

Nor must we omit the sense of the nature of his country and his  country's history gradually
growing in the child's mind from story  and from observation.  A Scottish child hears much
of shipwreck,  outlying iron skerries, pitiless breakers, and great sea-lights;  much of heathery
mountains, wild clans, and hunted Covenanters.   Breaths come to him in song of the distant
Cheviots and the ring of  foraying hoofs.  He glories in his hard-fisted forefathers, of the
iron girdle and the handful of oat-meal, who rode so swiftly and  lived so sparely on their
raids.  Poverty, ill-luck, enterprise,  and constant resolution are the fibres of the legend
of his  country's history.  The heroes and kings of Scotland have been  tragically fated; the
most marking incidents in Scottish history -  Flodden, Darien, or the Forty-five were still
either failures or  defeats; and the fall of Wallace and the repeated reverses of the  Bruce
combine with the very smallness of the country to teach  rather a moral than a material criterion
for life.  Britain is  altogether small, the mere taproot of her extended empire:  Scotland,
again, which alone the Scottish boy adopts in his  imagination, is but a little part of that,
and avowedly cold,  sterile and unpopulous.  It is not so for nothing.  I once seemed  to have
perceived in an American boy a greater readiness of  sympathy for lands that are great, and
rich, and growing, like his  own.  It proved to be quite otherwise: a mere dumb piece of boyish
romance, that I had lacked penetration to divine.  But the error  serves the purpose of my
argument; for I am sure, at least, that  the heart of young Scotland will be always touched
more nearly by  paucity of number and Spartan poverty of life.

So we may argue, and yet the difference is not explained.  That  Shorter Catechism which I
took as being so typical of Scotland, was  yet composed in the city of Westminster.  The division
of races is  more sharply marked within the borders of Scotland itself than  between the countries.
Galloway and Buchan, Lothian and Lochaber,  are like foreign parts; yet you may choose a man
from any of them,  and, ten to one, he shall prove to have the headmark of a Scot.  A  century
and a half ago the Highlander wore a different costume,  spoke a different language, worshipped
in another church, held  different morals, and obeyed a different social constitution from
his fellow-countrymen either of the south or north.  Even the  English, it is recorded, did
not loathe the Highlander and the  Highland costume as they were loathed by the remainder of
the  Scotch.  Yet the Highlander felt himself a Scot.  He would  willingly raid into the Scotch
lowlands; but his courage failed him  at the border, and he regarded England as a perilous,
unhomely  land.  When the Black Watch, after years of foreign service,  returned to Scotland,
veterans leaped out and kissed the earth at  Port Patrick.  They had been in Ireland, stationed
among men of  their own race and language, where they were well liked and treated  with affection;
but it was the soil of Galloway that they kissed at  the extreme end of the hostile lowlands,
among a people who did not  understand their speech, and who had hated, harried, and hanged
them since the dawn of history.  Last, and perhaps most curious,  the sons of chieftains were
often educated on the continent of  Europe.  They went abroad speaking Gaelic; they returned
speaking,  not English, but the broad dialect of Scotland.  Now, what idea had  they in their
minds when they thus, in thought, identified  themselves with their ancestral enemies?  What
was the sense in  which they were Scotch and not English, or Scotch and not Irish?   Can a
bare name be thus influential on the minds and affections of  men, and a political aggregation
blind them to the nature of facts?   The story of the Austrian Empire would seem to answer,
NO; the far  more galling business of Ireland clenches the negative from nearer  home.  Is
it common education, common morals, a common language or  a common faith, that join men into
nations?  There were practically  none of these in the case we are considering.

The fact remains: in spite of the difference of blood and language,  the Lowlander feels himself
the sentimental countryman of the  Highlander.  When they meet abroad, they fall upon each
other's  necks in spirit; even at home there is a kind of clannish intimacy  in their talk.
But from his compatriot in the south the Lowlander  stands consciously apart.  He has had a
different training; he  obeys different laws; he makes his will in other terms, is  otherwise
divorced and married; his eyes are not at home in an  English landscape or with English houses;
his ear continues to  remark the English speech; and even though his tongue acquire the  Southern
knack, he will still have a strong Scotch accent of the  mind.

CHAPTER II. SOME COLLEGE MEMORIES (2)

I AM asked to write something (it is not specifically stated what)  to the profit and glory
of my ALMA MATER; and the fact is I seem to  be in very nearly the same case with those who
addressed me, for  while I am willing enough to write something, I know not what to  write.
Only one point I see, that if I am to write at all, it  should be of the University itself
and my own days under its  shadow; of the things that are still the same and of those that
are  already changed: such talk, in short, as would pass naturally  between a student of to-day
and one of yesterday, supposing them to  meet and grow confidential.

The generations pass away swiftly enough on the high seas of life;  more swiftly still in the
little bubbling back-water of the  quadrangle; so that we see there, on a scale startlingly
diminished, the flight of time and the succession of men.  I looked  for my name the other
day in last year's case-book of the  Speculative.  Naturally enough I looked for it near the
end; it was  not there, nor yet in the next column, so that I began to think it  had been dropped
at press; and when at last I found it, mounted on  the shoulders of so many successors, and
looking in that posture  like the name of a man of ninety, I was conscious of some of the 
dignity of years.  This kind of dignity of temporal precession is  likely, with prolonged life,
to become more familiar, possibly less  welcome; but I felt it strongly then, it is strongly
on me now, and  I am the more emboldened to speak with my successors in the tone of  a parent
and a praiser of things past.

For, indeed, that which they attend is but a fallen University; it  has doubtless some remains
of good, for human institutions decline  by gradual stages; but decline, in spite of all seeming
embellishments, it does; and what is perhaps more singular, began  to do so when I ceased to
be a student.  Thus, by an odd chance, I  had the very last of the very best of ALMA MATER;
the same thing, I  hear (which makes it the more strange), had previously happened to  my father;
and if they are good and do not die, something not at  all unsimilar will be found in time
to have befallen my successors  of to-day.  Of the specific points of change, of advantage
in the  past, of shortcoming in the present, I must own that, on a near  examination, they
look wondrous cloudy.  The chief and far the most  lamentable change is the absence of a certain
lean, ugly, idle,  unpopular student, whose presence was for me the gist and heart of  the
whole matter; whose changing humours, fine occasional purposes  of good, flinching acceptance
of evil, shiverings on wet, east- windy, morning journeys up to class, infinite yawnings during
lecture and unquenchable gusto in the delights of truantry, made up  the sunshine and shadow
of my college life.  You cannot fancy what  you missed in missing him; his virtues, I make
sure, are  inconceivable to his successors, just as they were apparently  concealed from his
contemporaries, for I was practically alone in  the pleasure I had in his society.  Poor soul,
I remember how much  he was cast down at times, and how life (which had not yet begun)  seemed
to be already at an end, and hope quite dead, and misfortune  and dishonour, like physical
presences, dogging him as he went.  So  this student, whom I have in my eye, took his full
share of these  concerns, and that very largely by his own fault; but he still  clung to his
fortune, and in the midst of much misconduct, kept on  in his own way learning how to work;
and at last, to his wonder,  escaped out of the stage of studentship not openly shamed; leaving
behind him the University of Edinburgh shorn of a good deal of its  interest for myself.

