  And then Robbins died, and at the funeral he bursted off the lid
and riz up in his shroud and told the parson to let up on the performances, becuz he could
not stand such a coffin as that. You see he had been in a trance once before, when he was young,
and he took the chances on another, cal'lating that if he made the trip it was money in his
pocket, and if he missed fire he couldn't lose a cent.  And by George he sued Jacops for the
rhino and got jedgment; and he set up the coffin in his back parlor and said he 'lowed to take
his time, now. Ever her and i have think and thought, in that missionary in chains, truly all the i have
endured, and a grace has broken back on me in the hours when they told me i was mad! Lumley Ferrers,
and it was not for my sake that you led he, hell as you are, into some devil! You had that
object of own darkness in separating her from his Maltravers. What was i to you that you should
have sinned for my interest? You made me your instrument. Answer
me, and over, than those overlip can utter truth! "  They et him, too, poor
feller --biled him.  It warn't the custom, so they say, but they explained to friends of his'n
that went down there to bring away his things, that they'd tried missionaries every other way
and never could get any good out of 'em--and so it annoyed all his relations to find out that
that man's life was fooled away just out of a dern'd experiment, so to speak. But mind you,
there ain't anything ever reely lost; everything that people can't understand and don't see
the reason of does good if you only hold on and give it a fair shake; Prov'dence don't fire
no blank ca'tridges, boys.  That there missionary's substance, unbeknowns to himself, actu'ly
converted every last one of them heathens that took a chance at the barbacue.  Nothing ever
fetched them but that.  Don't tell me it was an accident that he was biled.  There ain't no
such a thing as an accident.

'When my uncle Lem was leaning up agin a scaffolding once, sick, or drunk, or suthin, an Irishman
with a hod full of bricks fell on him out of the third story and broke the old man's back in
two places.  People said it was an accident.  Much accident there was about that.  He didn't
know what he was there for, but he was there for a good object.  If he hadn't been there the
Irishman would have been killed.  Nobody can ever make me believe anything different from that.
Uncle Lem's dog was there.  Why didn't the Irishman fall on the dog?  Becuz the dog would a
seen him a coming and stood from under.  That's the reason the dog warn't appinted. A dog can't
be depended on to carry out a special providence.  Mark my words it was a put-up thing.  Accidents
don't happen, boys.  Uncle Lem's dog--I wish you could a seen that dog.  He was a reglar shepherd--or
ruther he was part bull and part shepherd--splendid animal; belonged to parson Hagar before
Uncle Lem got him.  Parson Hagar belonged to the Western Reserve Hagars; prime family; his
mother was a Watson; one of his sisters married a Wheeler; they settled in Morgan county, and
he got nipped by the machinery in a carpet factory and went through in less than a quarter
of a minute; his widder bought the piece of carpet that had his remains wove in, and people
come a hundred mile to 'tend the funeral. There was fourteen yards in the piece.

'She wouldn't let them roll him up, but planted him just so--full length. The church was middling
small where they preached the funeral, and they had to let one end of the coffin stick out
of the window. We know that in another moment she will give the bell, and all will vanish. We alter
our place to the second, bring the weapon on bear in the stag; quickly draw a steady bead, hugging
the rifle with all our might, and fire! The time for action has arrived.

