As all members of the University were ipso facto clerks, their dress had to correspond; the
marks of clerical dress were that it was to be of a certain length (later it was specified
that it should reach the heels, talaris), and that it should be closed in front, but there
was great licence as to colour; the 'black' or 'subfusc' prescribed by the Laudian Statutes
is the result of the asceticism of the Reformation, and was unknown in Oxford before the sixteenth
century. We have in the wills of students and in the inventories of their properties, abundant
evidence that our mediaeval predecessors wore garments suitable to 'Merrie Englande', e.g.
of green, blue or blood-colour. Sometimes the founder of a college left directions what 'livery'
all his students should wear; e.g. Robert Eglesfield prescribed for the fellows of Queen's
College that they were to dine in Hall in purple cloaks, the Doctors wearing these trimmed
with fur, while the M.A.s wore theirs 'plain'; the colour was 'to suit the dignity of their
position and to be like the blood of The Lord'. Cambridge colleges still in some cases prescribe
for their undergraduates gowns of a special colour or cut.

One curious survival of the 'clerkship' of all students is the requirement of the white tie
in all University examinations and in the degree ceremony. The 'bands', which (to quote Dr.
Rashdall) 'are merely a clerical collar', have disappeared from the necks of all lay members
of the University below the degree of Doctor, except the Vice-Chancellor and the Proctors;
the dress of the latter is the full-dress of an ordinary M.A. in the seventeenth century, and
preserves picturesque old features which have been lost elsewhere.

[Sidenote: (2) The Cope and the Gown.]

The proper dress of the mediaeval Master, though probably an undergraduate could also wear
it, was the cappa or cope; this at Oxford was usually black in colour, but Doctors had quite
early (i.e. in the time of the Edwards) adopted as the colour for it some shade of red, thus
beginning the custom which still survives. The scarlet 'habit', worn at Convocations by Oxford
Doctors over their ordinary gowns, retains the old name 'cappa', but the shape has been completely
altered. The sister University, however, still preserves the old shape; the Cambridge Vice-Chancellor
presides at their degree ceremonies in a sleeveless scarlet cloak, lined with miniver, which
exactly corresponds to the fourteenth-century picture of our Chancellor receiving the charter
from Edward III. The gown, the 'putting on' of which is now the distinguishing mark of the
taking of the B.A. or M.A., is simply the survival of a mediaeval garment which was not even
clerical, the long gown (toga) or cassock, which was worn under the cappa. The dress of the
'Blues' at Christ's Hospital preserves the gown in an earlier stage of development. The modern
usage which gives the gown of the B.A. sleeves, while that of an M.A. has them cut away, has
in some unexplained way grown out of a similar usage as to the mediaeval cappa.

[Sidenote: (3) The Hood.]

The mark, however, which specially distinguished the degree was the hood, as to which the University
was always strict, assigning the proper material and the proper colour[26] to that of each
faculty. The hood was not a mere adornment or a badge, it was an article of dress. Originally
it seems to have been attached to the cappa, and, as its name implies, was used for covering
(the head) when required. Its practical purpose is quaintly implied in the books of the Chancellor
and the Proctors (sub anno 1426), where it is provided that 'whereas reason bids that the varieties
of costume should correspond to the ordering of the seasons, and whereas the Festival of Easter
in its due course is akin from its nearness to summer,' it is henceforth allowed that from
Easter to All Saints' day, 'graduates may wear silken hoods,' instead of fur ones, 'old custom
notwithstanding.' The M.A. hood, even in its present mutilated form, still presents survivals
of the time when it was a real head covering, survivals which should prevent those who wear
it from putting it on upside down, as many often do. The B.A. hood was already in the fifteenth
century lined with lamb's wool or rabbit's fur, and the use of miniver by other than M.A.s
and persons of birth or wealth[27] was strictly forbidden by a statute of 1432.

[Sidenote: (4) The Cap.]

The last and not the least important part of mediaeval academic dress still remains to be spoken
of, the cap. The conferring of this with the ring and the kiss of peace has been already mentioned
(p. 27), these being the marks of the admission of new Masters and Doctors. As under the Roman
Law the slave was manumitted by being allowed to put on a cap, so the 'pileus' of the M.A.
was the sign of his independence; hence he was bound to wear it at all University ceremonies.
The cap was sometimes square (biretta), sometimes round (pileus); Gascoigne (writing in 1456)
tells us that in his day the round cap was worn by Doctors of Divinity and Canon Law, and that
it had always been so since the days of King Alfred; not content with this antiquity, he also
affirms that the round cap was given by God Himself to the doctors of the Mosaic Law. He adds
the more commonplace but more trustworthy information that the cap was in those days fastened
by a string behind, to prevent its falling off.

The modern stiff corners of the cap are an addition, which is not an improvement; the old cap
drooped gracefully from its tuft in the centre, as can still be seen in the portraits of seventeenth-century
divines, e.g. in Vandyck's 'Archbishop Laud', so familiar from its many replicas and copies.
Later usage has specialized the round cap of velvet as belonging to the Doctors of Law and
Medicine, and a most beautiful head-gear it is; it is preserved, in a less elaborate form,
at the degree ceremony in the round caps of the Bedels.

After the Reformation the cap began to be worn by B.A.s and undergraduates, but originally
without the tuft; the eighteenth century, careless of the old traditions, replaced the tuft
by the modern commonplace tassel, and extended this to all caps except those of servitors.
With the disappearance of social distinctions in dress, the tassel has been extended to all,
except to choir-boys, and so the coveted badge of the mediaeval Master is now the property
of all University ranks, and is undervalued and neglected in the same proportion as it has
been rendered meaningless.

Before leaving the subject of head-gear, it may be noted that the old University custom of
giving the son of a nobleman a gold tassel for his cap has left a permanent mark in the familiar
phrase 'tuft-hunting'; the right of wearing this distinctive badge still exists for peers and
for their eldest sons[28], but they are at liberty not to avail themselves of it, and it is
practically never used. Academic dress has sadly lost its picturesqueness, especially for the
undergraduate; his gown no longer reaches to his heels, as the statute still requires it to
do, and the injunction against 'novi et insoliti habitus' is surely a dead letter in these
days when Norfolk jackets and knickerbocker suits penetrate even to University and college
lecture-rooms. But what can the University expect when M.A.s, in evasion of the statutes, come
to Congregation without gowns, and borrow them from each other in order to vote, and when the
University itself knows nothing of the 'exemplaria' (models) which are supposed to be 'in archivis
reposita'? Whether there ever were these models of proper University dress, e.g. a doll in
D.D. habit, &c., is uncertain; what is certain is that there are none now. At the present time
the scanty relics of mediaeval usage are at the mercy of the tailors; and though it must be
said for their representatives in Oxford that they do their best to maintain old traditions,
yet there is no doubt that innovations are slowly but steadily introduced, e.g. the M.A. hood
is losing in length, and is altering in colour.

The recent attempt on the part of the University to devise new gowns and habits for the 'Research'
Doctors is, it may be hoped, the beginning of a better state of things; whatever may be thought
of the aesthetic success in this case, the subject was treated with seriousness and expert
evidence was taken. Perhaps in the near future Oxford may bestir itself in this matter, and
see that nothing more is lost of its mediaeval survivals; restoration of what is actually gone
is probably hopeless. Such pious conservatism would be in accordance with the spirit of the
present age; for even the modern Radical, unlike his predecessor of half a century back, cares,
or at any rate professes to care, for the external traces of the past.

[Sidenote: Oxford Hoods and Gowns.]

The following list makes no attempt to distinguish between the full dress and the undress of
Doctors; it is only intended as a help in identifying the various functionaries who take part
in the degree ceremony.

Doctors.

Divinity (D.D.[29]).--Scarlet hood and habit; the gown has black velvet sleeves.

                    {Scarlet hood and
Civil Law (D.C.L.)  {habit; the gown
Medicine (D.M.)     {has sleeves of crimson
                    {silk.

The Master of Surgery (M.Ch.) wears the same hood, gown, and habit as an M.D., and ranks next
after him.

Science (D.Sc.)    {Scarlet hood and habit;
Letters (D.Litt.)  {the gown has sleeves of
                   {French grey.

The habits of these Doctors, though in the main similar, have different facings, that of the
D.D. being black, of the D.M. and D.C.L. crimson, and of the D.Litt. and D.Sc. French grey.

Doctor of Music (Mus.Doc.).--Gown of crimson and cream brocade. The hood is of the same colours.
This gorgeous dress goes back for nearly 300 years. The gown is made of that rich kind of brocade
which is popularly said to be able to stand up by itself, and tradition (not very well authenticated)
has it that the identically same gown was worn by Richter on his admission as Doctor in 1885,
which had been worn by Haydn in the preceding century. The Doctor of Music, however, unlike
all other Doctors, ranks after an M.A.; the reason is that musical graduates need not take
the ordinary Arts course, but the degrees in Music are open to all who have passed Responsions,
or an equivalent examination.

The undress gowns of all Doctors but those of Divinity have the sleeves trimmed with lace;
D.D.s wear also a scarf (fastened by a loop behind), and a cassock under their habit or their gown.

All Doctorates are given, or at any rate are supposed to be given, for original work that is
a contribution to knowledge; but in the case of the D.D. the theses have quite lost this character.

The Proctors.

The Proctors, as the representatives of the M.A.s, wear their old full-dress gown, which has
otherwise disappeared from use. The sleeves are of black velvet; the hoods are of miniver,
and are passed on from Proctor to Proctor. On the back of the gown is a curious triangular
tassel, called a 'tippet'; this is a survival of a bag or purse, which was once used for collecting
fees; the appropriateness of its retention by Proctors will still be easily understood by undergraduates.
They used also to receive all fees for examinations, till about 1891.

Master of Arts (M.A.)

Crimson hood and black gown, with the sleeves cut short and fitting above the elbows, and hanging
in a long bag, cut at the end into crescent shape.

Bachelors.

