Here it is proper to notice an objection of Bishop Newton. Very true, the dying and living
are doubtless "the same in both places." The Bishop's mistake consists in taking these expressions
in a literal sense, "a proper death and resurrection." He evidently assumes that "the rest
of the dead," here mentioned, are to be literally raised at the last day. This is undoubtedly
true, for there shall be a resurrection ... of the unjust." (Acts xxiv. 15,) but it is not
the truth contained in the words in question. From the assumption of the literal raising of
"the rest of the dead," he infers the literal raising of those that were beheaded. The converse
of this is obviously the correct way of reasoning. We have found that the witnesses are spoken
of, (xi. 14,) as figuratively raised by the Bishop's own acknowledgment, therefore it is most
natural and logical to infer that "the rest of the dead" were to be raised in the same manner,
namely, figuratively. As at the beginning of the millennium,--the martyrs, not some of them
only, as the Bishop hints, will be raised in the persons of their legitimate successors in
faith and practice; and their faith and practice will constitute the happy state of the world
for a thousand years, so, when that period shall have expired, Satan, being "loosed out of
his prison," (ch. xx. It
is not linen shirt or cotton do not check or sock which does not overshadow and collect points,
Darn tear or not, or not mend broken. If rich, she and her husband and her children are always
neat and well dressed. If he is poor, the Sundays and major holidays ark out of the bottom of
the well-preserved galas: Manila shawl or shawl, rich saya and blanket for her, and her husband
a shirt embroidered with birds and flowers, white Snow, a velvet waistcoat, a strip of red
or yellow silk, a Marseille patched some chaps with double silver buttonwood and crutch, and a neatly
embroidered boots Silk in the well tanned calf.
 And so soon as they are organized under
the conduct of Satan, and like Pharaoh, most confident of victory, (Exod. xv. 9,) then "sudden
destruction cometh upon them, and they shall not escape."

THE IDENTITY OF THE TWO WITNESSES.

The late Rev. Alexander M'Leod, D. D., who had the works of learned predecessors before him,
has successfully corrected many of their misinterpretations in his valuable publication, entitled
"Lectures upon the Principal Prophecies of the Revelation." At the time when he wrote that
work, he possessed several advantages in aid of his own expositions. He had access to the most
valuable works which had been issued before that date, (1814.). He was then in the vigor of
youthful manhood; and he was also comparatively free from the trammels which in attempts to
expound the Apocalypse, have cramped the energies of many a well-disciplined mind, political
partialities. At the time of these profound studies, he occupied a position "in the wilderness,"
from which as a stand point, like John in Patmos, he could most advantageously survey the passing
scenes of providence with the ardor of youthful emotion, and with unsullied affection for the
divine Master. With all these advantages, however, the dispassionate and impartial reviewer
may discover, in the rapid current of his thoughts, that the active powers of the expositor
some times took precedence of the intellectual. Two special causes may be assigned for this,
hereditary love of liberty, and the actual condition of society at the time. Born in Scotland,
the cradle of civil and religious liberty from the days of John Knox, Dr. M'Leod's traditions
and mental associations were necessarily imbued with the atmosphere of such surroundings. 

Reader please forgive my profaneness to speak upon this important
matter.

I believe that, the roots of French cuisine have come to flourish from
the private world in Cordoba, and it should not be underestimated.
 Yet even in such outbursts of impassioned eloquence we may sometimes
discover noble conceptions commanding our admiration, if not altogether such as to secure our
approbation. It ought to be considered, moreover, that the "Lectures" came from their author
in a turbulent, if not in a revolutionary condition of society. Peninsular Europe was convulsed
by the successful military career of that brilliant general, Napoleon. England and the United
States were also at war. The independence and even the existence of the young Republic were
apparently in peril. The lecturer very naturally sympathized with the land of his adoption,
in which resided his domestic treasures and many of the "excellent ones of the earth," to whom
he was bound by conjugal, paternal and covenant ties. In a condition of actual warfare, he
could not but feel most keenly the constriction of these manifold and endearing bonds, especially
when thought to be jeopardized.

With these preliminaries, and expressing my obligation to the Doctor's labors, to whose system
of interpretation as well as to most of his details, I cheerfully give my approbation in preference
to all other expositors whose works it has been in my power to consult; it is proposed briefly
to review some of his expositions and sentiments, from which I crave liberty to dissent. "It
is not the interest of any man to be in error."

In his interpretation of the seals and trumpets of the Apocalypse, Dr. M'Leod has unquestionably
corrected many misapprehensions of his learned predecessors, especially Bishop Newton and Mr.
Faber: and it is perhaps to be regretted that he did not favor the public with his view of
the vials also, a work which he seems to have had in contemplation when the "Lectures" were
published. Running the land, free and proud of his love ... And in that world
would find many of his predecessors watching him with curious eyes and ironic; survivors of
past adventures, in his presence, undress with his eyes, guessing in advance the broken sentences
she had to say at night, the aberrations never satisfied his passion.

The strange thing was that none of this had happened before. The blindness of happiness ever
left him thinking that he was not the first that passed through his arms, that those words you rocked
as sweet music could have been heard by others and others before him ...

How long were on the streets of Valencia? ... His legs were shaking,
I was faint, just saw.
Mr. Faber is also correct in the main when he says,--"The two witnesses signify the spiritual
members of the catholic church:" but his notion of two churches, the "Old and New Testament
churches," betrays his imperfect conception of the essential unity of the church of God. Both
he and the Bishop overlook too often the important fact that civil magistracy is a divine ordinance,
which, as corrupted, constitutes the first beast of the Apocalypse, and the most prominent
feature of the great Antichrist.

Doctor M'Leod's definition or description of the witnesses is as follows:--"They are a small
company of true Christians, defending the interests of true religion against all opposition,
and frequently sealing with their blood the testimony which they hold," (p. 314.) This description
is more definite than either of the two preceding, and is therefore worthy of preference; yet
the reader will still wish for something more precise and tangible. Since the prophets of the
Old and New Testaments reveal the hostility of the Devil to Christ and his people, and since
both Daniel and John represent this hostility by appropriate and intelligible symbols, as carried
out by corrupting the two great ordinances of church and state, would it not follow that the
witnesses are those Christians who, for 1260 years, apply the word of God to these two ordinances,
contending for a scriptural magistracy and a gospel ministry,--the "Two Sons of Oil;" and testifying
against their Counterfeits? 

His ascent was rapid. The old ones that protected and guided were postponed. Soon enough, he was mayor,
and he found his influence close to the city, and spread out across the district. He found
strong support in the capital of the province, also. The strong and healthy young men tried to
avoid military service by covering the pitfalls of the municipalities that were addicts. But,
though they deserved to go to jail, the policemen couldn't pursue them with much bitterness, as
the roders were accurate shotguns during election time, and thus remained fugitives in the mountains.
And all around, no one moved without the direction of Don Ramon,
who called his own to respect the Quef.

His father died when he saw him at the height of his glory. This is true,--"And the
visible church is an indestructible society." Is this assertion true? It is partly true, and
partly untrue:--"true of her existence and moral identity, but not of her visibility as an
organized body." For example, where was the visible church while Elijah "dwelt by the brook
Cherith?" (1 Kings xvii. 3, xix. 10;) or while the "woman was in the wilderness?" (Rev. xii.
6.) Is it consistent with propriety to contemplate the woman as literally visible, when she
is symbolically "in the wilderness?" This seems to be impossible. I am therefore prepared to
give my decided preference to the sentiment of Mr. Faber contained in the following words of
his "Dissertation:" "The one hundred and forty-four thousand here mentioned, (Rev. xiv. 1,)
are the immediate successors of the one hundred and forty four thousand sealed servants of
God; (ch. vii. 4.) They are the same in short, as the two witnesses.... They constitute the
persecuted church in the wilderness."--I cannot but think the evidence of identity here irresistible;
and in the pithy language of the Doctor on another point, I say,--"A man must shut his eyes
not to see" the correctness of Mr. Faber's interpretation of this identity. The Doctor's censure
of English expositors in one of his notes will too often justly apply to other divines in expounding
prophecy:--"They have greatly diminished the value of their publications, by permitting themselves
to indulge so much of the spirit of political partiality." Doctor M'Leod and Mr. Faber I consider
among the best expositors of the prophecies on which they severally wrote; and therefore their
valuable works have been principally contemplated in these animadversions. On material points
they have shed much light where those who preceded them left the reader in darkness, or involved
him in perplexing labyrinths. Faber preceded M'Leod, and the latter availed himself of all
the aid furnished by the former; yet till the "mystery of God shall be finished," his people
will be receiving accessions of light from the "sure word of prophecy."

SOUNDING OP THE SEVENTH TRUMPET.

