I like your skool houses, your meetin houses, your enterprise, gumpshun &c., but your favorit
Bevridge I disgust. CHAPTER THE LAST.

FURTHER PROOFS seek OF BRACCIOLINI BEING THE AUTHOR OF THE FIRST SIX
BOOKS OF THE Journal.

I. The tother descriptive powers of Bracciolini and Tacitus.
The property of writing of both. Their different demeanor& digressing.
III. I. The fust glass
indused me to sware like a infooriated trooper. On takin the secund glass I was seezed with
a desire to break winders, & arter imbibin the third glass I knockt a small boy down, pickt
his pocket of a New York Ledger, and wildly commenced readin Sylvanus Kobb's last Tail.  Its
drefful stuff--a sort of lickwid litenin, gut up under the personal supervishun of the devil--tears
men's inards all to peaces and makes their noses blossum as the Lobster.  Shun it as you would
a wild hyeny with a firebrand tied to his tale, and while you air abowt it you will do a first-rate
thing for yourself and everybody abowt you by shunnin all kinds of intoxicatin lickers.  You
don't need 'em no more'n a cat needs 2 tales, sayin nothin abowt the trubble and sufferin they
cawse.  But unless your inards air cast iron, avoid New England's favorite Bevrige.

My frends, I'm dun.  I tear myself away from you with tears in my eyes & a pleasant oder of
Onyins abowt my close.  In the langwidge of Mister Catterline to the Rummuns, I go, but perhaps
I shall cum back agin.  Adoo, people of Weathersfield. Be virtoous & you'll be happy!

2.4.  THE WAR FEVER IN BALDINSVILLE.

As soon as I'd recooperated my physikil system, I went over into the village.  The peasantry
was glad to see me.  The skoolmaster sed it was cheerin to see that gigantic intelleck among
'em onct more.  That's what he called me.  I like the skoolmaster, and allers send him tobacker
when I'm off on a travelin campane.  Besides, he is a very sensible man.  Such men must be
encouraged.

They don't git news very fast in Baldinsville, as nothin but a plank road runs in there twice
a week, and that's very much out of repair.  So my nabers wasn't much posted up in regard to
the wars.  'Squire Baxter sed he'd voted the dimicratic ticket for goin on forty year, and
the war was a dam black republican lie.  Jo. Stackpole, who kills hogs for the Squire, and
has got a powerful muscle into his arms, sed he'd bet 5 dollars he could lick the Crisis in
a fair stand-up fight, if he wouldn't draw a knife on him.  So it went--sum was for war, and
sum was for peace.  The skoolmaster, however, sed the Slave Oligarky must cower at the feet
of the North ere a year had flowed by, or pass over his dead corpse.  "Esto perpetua!" he added!
"And sine qua non also!" sed I, sternly, wishing to make a impression onto the villagers. 
"Requiescat in pace!" sed the skoolmaster, "Too troo, too troo!" I anserd, "it's a scanderlus
fact!"

The newspapers got along at last, chock full of war, and the patriotic fever fairly bust out
in Baldinsville.  'Squire Baxter sed he didn't b'lieve in Coercion, not one of 'em, and could
prove by a file of "Eagles of Liberty" in his garrit, that it was all a Whig lie, got up to
raise the price of whisky and destroy our other liberties.  But the old 'Squire got putty riley,
when he heard how the rebels was cuttin up, and he sed he reckoned he should skour up his old
muskit and do a little square fitin for the Old Flag, which had allers bin on the ticket HE'D
voted, and he was too old to Bolt now. The 'Squire is all right at heart, but it takes longer
for him to fill his venerable Biler with steam than it used to when he was young and frisky.
As I previously informed you, I am Captin of the Baldinsville Company.  I riz gradooally but
majestically from drummer's Secretary to my present position. But I found the ranks wasn't
full by no means, and commenced for to recroot.