Sir Lionel, meaning to make things pleasant, now got up, and went over to his son. He did not
know on what footing, with reference to each other, his son and Lady Harcourt now stood; but
he did know that they had loved each other, and been betrothed for years; he did know, also,
that she had left her husband, and that that husband and his son had been the closest friends.
It was a great opportunity for him to make things pleasant. He had not the slightest scruple
as to sacrificing that "dear Caroline" whom he had so loved as his future daughter-in-law.

"George," said he, "if you know where Lady Harcourt is, it will be better that you should tell
Sir Henry. No properly-thinking man will countenance a wife in disobeying her husband."

"Father," said George, "Lady Harcourt is not in my custody. She is the judge of her own actions
in this matter."

"Is she?" said Sir Henry. "She must learn to know that she is not; and that very shortly. Do
you mean to tell me where she is?"

"I mean to tell you nothing about her, Sir Henry."

"George, you are wrong," said Sir Lionel. "If you know where Lady Harcourt is, you are bound
to tell him. I really think you are."

"I am bound to tell him nothing, father; nor will I. I will have no conversation with him about
his wife. It is his affair and hers--and that, perhaps, of a hundred other people; but it certainly
is not mine. Nor will I make it so."

"Then you insist on concealing her?" said Sir Henry.

"I have nothing to do with her. I do not know that she is concealed at all."

"You know where she is?"

"I do. But, believing as I do that she would rather not be disturbed, I shall not say where
you would find her."

"I think you ought, George."

"Father, you do not understand this matter."

"You will not escape in that way, sir. Here you are named as her trustee in this will--"

"I am glad that you acknowledge the will, at any rate," said Mr. Stickatit.

"Who says that I acknowledge it? I acknowledge nothing in the will. But it is clear, from that
document, that she presumes herself to be under his protection. It is manifest that that silly
fool intended that she should be so. Now I am not the man to put up with this. I ask you once
more, Mr. Bertram, will you tell me where I shall find Lady Harcourt?"

"No, I will not."

"Very well; then I shall know how to act. Gentlemen, good-morning. Mr. Stickatit, I caution
you not to dispose, under that will, of anything of which Mr. Bertram may have died possessed."
And so saying, he took up his hat, and left the house.

And what would he have done had Bertram told him that Lady Harcourt was staying at Mr. Jones's,
in the red brick house on the other side of the Green? What can any man do with a recusant
wife? We have often been told that we should build a golden bridge for a flying enemy. And
if any one can be regarded as a man's enemy, it is a wife who is not his friend.

After a little while, Sir Lionel went away with Mr. Pritchett. Bertram asked them both to stay
for dinner, but the invitation was not given in a very cordial manner. At any rate, it was
not accepted.

"Good-bye, then, George," said Sir Lionel. "I suppose I shall see you before I leave town.
I must say, you have made a bad affair of this will."

"Good-bye, Mr. George; good-bye," said Mr. Pritchett. "Make my dutiful compliments to Miss
Baker--and to the other lady."

"Yes, I will, Mr. Pritchett."

"Ah, dear! well. You might have had it all, instead of the fishmongers' children, if you had
chosen, Mr. George."

