He would have loved to deck her out in gay colours, like a show-horse, but she had the tastes
of a lady. That was because she had had a good education. She spoke German very fluently, and
could also write it without a single mistake. She knew quite long pieces of poetry by heart.
She could speak of Berlin, although [Pg 20] she had never been there, and that made a wonderful
impression upon her husband. Gnesen and Posen and Breslau were also big towns, but Berlin--Berlin!
He felt very ignorant compared with her, although in his youth he had gone to the Agricultural
College at Samter, and had understood pretty well how to make something out of the five hundred
acres he had inherited from his father. The children--the son of his first wife and little
Rosa--would never be obliged to earn their living among strangers. And, what was of more importance
still, his beloved Sophia's future would be secured if he died before her, for he had made
a will in her favour, as he had promised her mother he would.

Mrs. Kluge had been able to close her eyes in peace, fully satisfied with having brought about
this splendid match for her pretty daughter, for it was her wisdom and circumspection which
had paved the way for it. Mrs. Kluge was of a better family than most of her neighbours. She
had originally come from Breslau, but after her marriage with the schoolmaster from Posen she
had had to wander about with him from one miserable Polish village to another, and had always
been very poor. However, she had never allowed her little Sophia to play in the street with
the other children, and the child had always had shoes and stockings to wear--rather suffer
hunger in secret than go without them.

When Sophia grew older, and the time drew near for her to receive the Holy Sacrament for the
first time, she became the priest's avowed favourite. Mrs. Kluge was a pious woman, perhaps
the most pious woman in Gradewitz, and whilst making dresses for the farmers' wives in order
to support herself and her child her lips used to move the whole time in [Pg 21] silent prayer.
It was owing to her dressmaking that she had become acquainted with farmer Tiralla's wife--maybe
also owing to her piety. For did it not seem as if it were Providence itself that had brought
Mr. Tiralla as well as his wife to her room when she was making Mrs. Tiralla's last dress?
He had driven his wife over--she was in delicate health at the time--and, as it was bitterly
cold, he had come in as well, and had left the horse standing outside. He could hardly get
through the low door, and had quite filled her small room. Little Sophia was handing her mother
the pins whilst the dress was being tried on, and had received a shilling and a look from Mr.
Tiralla which had made her blush and lower her dark eyes without knowing the reason why.

Sophia Kluge was modest; no young fellow in the neighbourhood could boast of being in her good
graces. She did not even know why the lads and lasses used to steal out into the fields in
the evenings, and why their tender songs should rise so plaintively to the starry skies. Sophia,
with the black eyes and white face, which no sun, no country air had ever tanned, for she had
always remained at home with her mother, was a pious child, so pious that the priest, still
a young man with saint-like face, took a great deal of notice of her. He would send for this
girl of eleven to come to him in his study, which the old housekeeper only got leave to enter
three times a year. There he would speak to her of the joys of the angels and of the Heavenly
Bridegroom, and enrapture himself and her with descriptions of heaven and of the streams of
love which had flowed through the hearts of all the saints.

Mrs. Kluge was proud of the preference shown to her daughter; but the salvation of her soul
did not make her lose sight of her earthly lot. She had [Pg 22] suffered many privations in
her life, and had had to give up very much, and she wished her daughter to have some enjoyment
even on this earth. It seemed to her like a sign from the saints that Mrs. Tiralla was prematurely
delivered of a child and died before she had worn her new dress. Then Mr. Tiralla began to
look out for another wife, and when he came in person to pay the outstanding account for the
dress, the clever woman noticed the complacent smile which he cast at the young beauty. She
was well aware of her daughter's beauty, and knew how to value it. When Mr. Tiralla said to
her, "Your daughter is devilish good-looking," she had answered, "Ah, but she's still so young."
And when he came once more and said, "Psia krew, how sad it is to live alone on such a dreary
farm," the wise woman replied, "You'll have to marry again. There are plenty of widows and
elderly spinsters who would be pleased to marry you." That had angered him. He neither wanted
widows nor elderly spinsters, he coveted the youngest of them all.

Sophia had run to the priest and had wept and lamented when her mother had said to her, "Be
happy, Mr. Tiralla wants to marry you." No, she wouldn't have him, she didn't want to marry at all.

Even now, after the lapse of fifteen years, Mrs. Tiralla's heart swelled with bitterness when
she lay awake at night and thought of the way she had been treated. Her mother had begged and
implored her with tears in her eyes. "We shall then be out of all our misery." And when the
girl continued to shake her head she had boxed her ears--the right and the left indiscriminately--and
had told her in a peremptory voice, "You shall marry Mr. Tiralla."

And her friend, the priest? Ah! Mrs. Tiralla once [Pg 23] more pictured herself in that quiet
room in which, with hot cheeks and enraptured gaze, she had so often listened, on her knees,
to the legends of the saints. Once more she held the hem of the cassock between her fingers
and watered it with her tears. She had wept, had resisted: "No, I will not marry him, I cannot!"
Had not the priest always told her--nay, positively adjured her--to remain a virgin, to remain
unmarried, and in this way secure for herself a place in heaven? She had kissed his hands,
"Help me, advise me!" Then, she did not know herself how it had happened, then she had suddenly
jumped up from her knees, confused and trembling, and had rushed to the door and had hidden
her face in a tumult of undreamt-of feelings, which had almost stunned her with their sudden
attack. All at once she was no longer a girl, she was a woman, who, trembling, ardent, feverish
with desire, had become self-conscious. How blissful it was to be a--his chosen one. To sit
all one's life in that quiet room with the saints. In the girl's confused dreams the figure
of her Heavenly Friend seemed to mingle with that of her earthly one. Oh, how exquisite he
was, how beautiful! His hands were like ivory, his cheeks like velvet. And his kiss----

Instead of him Mr. Tiralla had come----

Mrs. Tiralla had placed a footstool in her bedroom under her picture of the Saviour carrying
His flaming heart in His hand. The priest of her youth had left Starawieś long ago--he had
asked to be removed from the neighbourhood--but she still prayed a great deal.

It was the morning after Mr. Tiralla had drunk a glass too much in his joy at her unusual display
of tenderness, and as she got out of bed her first glance fell on the picture opposite. She
crossed herself, and [Pg 24] then, gliding on her bare feet to the footstool, she knelt down
and prayed for a long time.

