"We should really, in a way, help more than we should hamper each other," she ardently explained.
"We both know the ropes so well; what one of us didn't see the other might--in the way of opportunities,
I mean. And then we should be a novelty as married people. We're both rather unusually popular--why
not be frank!--and it's such a blessing for dinner-givers to be able to count on a couple of
whom neither one is a blank. Yes, I really believe we should be more than twice the success
we are now; at least," she added with a smile, "if there's that amount of room for improvement.
I don't know how you feel; a man's popularity is so much less precarious than a girl's--but
I know it would furbish me up tremendously to reappear as a married woman." She glanced away
from him down the long valley at their feet, and added in a lower tone: "And I should like,
just for a little while, to feel I had something in life of my very own--something that nobody
had lent me, like a fancy-dress or a motor or an opera cloak."

The suggestion, at first, had seemed to Lansing as mad as it was enchanting: it had thoroughly
frightened him. But Susy's arguments were irrefutable, her ingenuities inexhaustible. Had he
ever thought it all out? She asked. No. Well, she had; and would he kindly not interrupt? In
the first place, there would be all the wedding-presents. Jewels, and a motor, and a silver
dinner service, did she mean? Not a bit of it! She could see he'd never given the question
proper thought. Cheques, my dear, nothing but cheques--she undertook to manage that on her
side: she really thought she could count on about fifty, and she supposed he could rake up
a few more? Well, all that would simply represent pocket-money! For they would have plenty
of houses to live in: he'd see. People were always glad to lend their house to a newly-married
couple. It was such fun to pop down and see them: it made one feel romantic and jolly. All
they need do was to accept the houses in turn: go on honey-mooning for a year! What was he
afraid of? Didn't he think they'd be happy enough to want to keep it up? And why not at least
try--get engaged, and then see what would happen? Even if she was all wrong, and her plan failed,
wouldn't it have been rather nice, just for a month or two, to fancy they were going to be
happy? "I've often fancied it all by myself," she concluded; "but fancying it with you would
somehow be so awfully different...."

That was how it began: and this lakeside dream was what it had led up to. Fantastically improbable
as they had seemed, all her previsions had come true. If there were certain links in the chain
that Lansing had never been able to put his hand on, certain arrangements and contrivances
that still needed further elucidation, why, he was lazily resolved to clear them up with her
some day; and meanwhile it was worth all the past might have cost, and every penalty the future
might exact of him, just to be sitting here in the silence and sweetness, her sleeping head
on his knee, clasped in his joy as the hushed world was clasped in moonlight.

He stooped down and kissed her. "Wake up," he whispered, "it's bed-time."

III.

THEIR month of Como was within a few hours of ending. Till the last moment they had hoped for
a reprieve; but the accommodating Streffy had been unable to put the villa at their disposal
for a longer time, since he had had the luck to let it for a thumping price to some beastly
bouncers who insisted on taking possession at the date agreed on.

Lansing, leaving Susy's side at dawn, had gone down to the lake for a last plunge; and swimming
homeward through the crystal light he looked up at the garden brimming with flowers, the long
low house with the cypress wood above it, and the window behind which his wife still slept.
The month had been exquisite, and their happiness as rare, as fantastically complete, as the
scene before him. He sank his chin into the sunlit ripples and sighed for sheer content....

It was a bore to be leaving the scene of such complete well-being, but the next stage in their
progress promised to be hardly less delightful. Susy was a magician: everything she predicted
came true. Houses were being showered on them; on all sides he seemed to see beneficent spirits
winging toward them, laden with everything from a piano nobile in Venice to a camp in the Adirondacks.
For the present, they had decided on the former. Other considerations apart, they dared not
risk the expense of a journey across the Atlantic; so they were heading instead for the Nelson
Vanderlyns' palace on the Giudecca. They were agreed that, for reasons of expediency, it might
be wise to return to New York for the coming winter. It would keep them in view, and probably
lead to fresh opportunities; indeed, Susy already had in mind the convenient flat that she
was sure a migratory cousin (if tactfully handled, and assured that they would not overwork
her cook) could certainly be induced to lend them. Meanwhile the need of making plans was still
remote; and if there was one art in which young Lansing's twenty-eight years of existence had
perfected him it was that of living completely and unconcernedly in the present....

If of late he had tried to look into the future more insistently than was his habit, it was
only because of Susy. He had meant, when they married, to be as philosophic for her as for
himself; and he knew she would have resented above everything his regarding their partnership
as a reason for anxious thought. But since they had been together she had given him glimpses
of her past that made him angrily long to shelter and defend her future. It was intolerable
that a spirit as fine as hers should be ever so little dulled or diminished by the kind of
compromises out of which their wretched lives were made. For himself, he didn't care a hang:
he had composed for his own guidance a rough-and-ready code, a short set of "mays" and "mustn'ts"
which immensely simplified his course. There were things a fellow put up with for the sake
of certain definite and otherwise unattainable advantages; there were other things he wouldn't
traffic with at any price. But for a woman, he began to see, it might be different. The temptations
might be greater, the cost considerably higher, the dividing line between the "mays" and "mustn'ts"
more fluctuating and less sharply drawn. Susy, thrown on the world at seventeen, with only
a weak wastrel of a father to define that treacherous line for her, and with every circumstance
soliciting her to overstep it, seemed to have been preserved chiefly by an innate scorn of
most of the objects of human folly. "Such trash as he went to pieces for," was her curt comment
on her parent's premature demise: as though she accepted in advance the necessity of ruining
one's self for something, but was resolved to discriminate firmly between what was worth it
and what wasn't.

This philosophy had at first enchanted Lansing; but now it began to rouse vague fears. The
fine armour of her fastidiousness had preserved her from the kind of risks she had hitherto
been exposed to; but what if others, more subtle, found a joint in it? Was there, among her
delicate discriminations, any equivalent to his own rules? Might not her taste for the best
and rarest be the very instrument of her undoing; and if something that wasn't "trash" came
her way, would she hesitate a second to go to pieces for it?

He was determined to stick to the compact that they should do nothing to interfere with what
each referred to as the other's "chance"; but what if, when hers came, he couldn't agree with
her in recognizing it? He wanted for her, oh, so passionately, the best; but his conception
of that best had so insensibly, so subtly been transformed in the light of their first month
together!

His lazy strokes were carrying him slowly shoreward; but the hour was so exquisite that a few
yards from the landing he laid hold of the mooring rope of Streffy's boat and floated there,
following his dream.... It was a bore to be leaving; no doubt that was what made him turn things
inside-out so uselessly. Venice would be delicious, of course; but nothing would ever again
be as sweet as this. And then they had only a year of security before them; and of that year
a month was gone.

Reluctantly he swam ashore, walked up to the house, and pushed open a window of the cool painted
drawing-room. Signs of departure were already visible. There were trunks in the hall, tennis
rackets on the stairs; on the landing, the cook Giulietta had both arms around a slippery hold-all
that refused to let itself be strapped. It all gave him a chill sense of unreality, as if the
past month had been an act on the stage, and its setting were being folded away and rolled
into the wings to make room for another play in which he and Susy had no part.

By the time he came down again, dressed and hungry, to the terrace where coffee awaited him,
he had recovered his usual pleasant sense of security. Susy was there, fresh and gay, a rose
in her breast and the sun in her hair: her head was bowed over Bradshaw, but she waved a fond
hand across the breakfast things, and presently looked up to say: "Yes, I believe we can just
manage it."

"Manage what?"

"To catch the train at Milan--if we start in the motor at ten sharp."

He stared. "The motor? What motor?"

"Why, the new people's--Streffy's tenants. He's never told me their name, and the chauffeur
says he can't pronounce it. The chauffeur's is Ottaviano, anyhow; I've been making friends
with him. He arrived last night, and he says they're not due at Como till this evening. He
simply jumped at the idea of running us over to Milan."

"Good Lord--" said Lansing, when she stopped.

She sprang up from the table with a laugh. "It will be a scramble; but I'll manage it, if you'll
go up at once and pitch the last things into your trunk."

"Yes; but look here--have you any idea what it's going to cost?"

She raised her eyebrows gaily. "Why, a good deal less than our railway tickets. Ottaviano's
got a sweetheart in Milan, and hasn't seen her for six months. When I found that out I knew
he'd be going there anyhow."

It was clever of her, and he laughed. But why was it that he had grown to shrink from even
such harmless evidence of her always knowing how to "manage"? "Oh, well," he said to himself,
"she's right: the fellow would be sure to be going to Milan."

Upstairs, on the way to his dressing room, he found her in a cloud of finery which her skilful
hands were forcibly compressing into a last portmanteau. He had never seen anyone pack as cleverly
as Susy: the way she coaxed reluctant things into a trunk was a symbol of the way she fitted
discordant facts into her life. "When I'm rich," she often said, "the thing I shall hate most
will be to see an idiot maid at my trunks."

As he passed, she glanced over her shoulder, her face pink with the struggle, and drew a cigar-box
from the depths. "Dearest, do put a couple of cigars into your pocket as a tip for Ottaviano."

Lansing stared. "Why, what on earth are you doing with Streffy's cigars?"

"Packing them, of course.... You don't suppose he meant them for those other people?" She gave
him a look of honest wonder.

"I don't know whom he meant them for--but they're not ours...."

She continued to look at him wonderingly. "I don't see what there is to be solemn about. The
cigars are not Streffy's either... you may be sure he got them out of some bounder. And there's
nothing he'd hate more than to have them passed on to another."

"Nonsense. If they're not Streffy's they're much less mine. Hand them over, please, dear."

"Just as you like. But it does seem a waste; and, of course, the other people will never have
one of them.... The gardener and Giulietta's lover will see to that!"

Lansing looked away from her at the waves of lace and muslin from which she emerged like a
rosy Nereid. "How many boxes of them are left?"

"Only four."

"Unpack them, please."

Before she moved there was a pause so full of challenge that Lansing had time for an exasperated
sense of the disproportion between his anger and its cause. And this made him still angrier.

She held out a box. "The others are in your suitcase downstairs. It's locked and strapped."

"Give me the key, then."

"We might send them back from Venice, mightn't we? That lock is so nasty: it will take you
half an hour."

"Give me the key, please." She gave it.

He went downstairs and battled with the lock, for the allotted half-hour, under the puzzled
eyes of Giulietta and the sardonic grin of the chauffeur, who now and then, from the threshold,
politely reminded him how long it would take to get to Milan. Finally the key turned, and Lansing,
broken-nailed and perspiring, extracted the cigars and stalked with them into the deserted
drawing room. The great bunches of golden roses that he and Susy had gathered the day before
were dropping their petals on the marble embroidery of the floor, pale camellias floated in
the alabaster tazzas between the windows, haunting scents of the garden blew in on him with
the breeze from the lake. Never had Streffy's little house seemed so like a nest of pleasures.
Lansing laid the cigar boxes on a console and ran upstairs to collect his last possessions.
When he came down again, his wife, her eyes brilliant with achievement, was seated in their
borrowed chariot, the luggage cleverly stowed away, and Giulietta and the gardener kissing
her hand and weeping out inconsolable farewells.

"I wonder what she's given them?" he thought, as he jumped in beside her and the motor whirled
them through the nightingale-thickets to the gate.

IV.

CHARLIE STREFFORD'S villa was like a nest in a rose-bush; the Nelson Vanderlyns' palace called
for loftier analogies.

Its vastness and splendour seemed, in comparison, oppressive to Susy. Their landing, after
dark, at the foot of the great shadowy staircase, their dinner at a dimly-lit table under a
ceiling weighed down with Olympians, their chilly evening in a corner of a drawing room where
minuets should have been danced before a throne, contrasted with the happy intimacies of Como
as their sudden sense of disaccord contrasted with the mutual confidence of the day before.

The journey had been particularly jolly: both Susy and Lansing had had too long a discipline
in the art of smoothing things over not to make a special effort to hide from each other the
ravages of their first disagreement. But, deep down and invisible, the disagreement remained;
and compunction for having been its cause gnawed at Susy's bosom as she sat in her tapestried
and vaulted bedroom, brushing her hair before a tarnished mirror.

"I thought I liked grandeur; but this place is really out of scale," she mused, watching the
reflection of a pale hand move back and forward in the dim recesses of the mirror. "And yet,"
she continued, "Ellie Vanderlyn's hardly half an inch taller than I am; and she certainly isn't
a bit more dignified.... I wonder if it's because I feel so horribly small to-night that the
place seems so horribly big."

She loved luxury: splendid things always made her feel handsome and high ceilings arrogant;
she did not remember having ever before been oppressed by the evidences of wealth.

She laid down the brush and leaned her chin on her clasped hands.... Even now she could not
understand what had made her take the cigars. She had always been alive to the value of her
inherited scruples: her reasoned opinions were unusually free, but with regard to the things
one couldn't reason about she was oddly tenacious. And yet she had taken Streffy's cigars!
She had taken them--yes, that was the point--she had taken them for Nick, because the desire
to please him, to make the smallest details of his life easy and agreeable and luxurious, had
become her absorbing preoccupation. She had committed, for him, precisely the kind of little
baseness she would most have scorned to commit for herself; and, since he hadn't instantly
felt the difference, she would never be able to explain it to him.

She stood up with a sigh, shook out her loosened hair, and glanced around the great frescoed
room. The maid-servant had said something about the Signora's having left a letter for her;
and there it lay on the writing-table, with her mail and Nick's; a thick envelope addressed
in Ellie's childish scrawl, with a glaring "Private" dashed across the corner.

"What on earth can she have to say, when she hates writing so," Susy mused.

She broke open the envelope, and four or five stamped and sealed letters fell from it. All
were addressed, in Ellie's hand, to Nelson Vanderlyn Esqre; and in the corner of each was faintly
pencilled a number and a date: one, two, three, four--with a week's interval between the dates.

"Goodness--" gasped Susy, understanding.

She had dropped into an armchair near the table, and for a long time she sat staring at the
numbered letters. A sheet of paper covered with Ellie's writing had fluttered out among them,
but she let it lie; she knew so well what it would say! She knew all about her friend, of course;
except poor old Nelson, who didn't, But she had never imagined that Ellie would dare to use
her in this way. It was unbelievable... she had never pictured anything so vile.... The blood
rushed to her face, and she sprang up angrily, half minded to tear the letters in bits and
throw them all into the fire.

She heard her husband's knock on the door between their rooms, and swept the dangerous packet
under the blotting-book.

"Oh, go away, please, there's a dear," she called out; "I haven't finished unpacking, and everything's
in such a mess." Gathering up Nick's papers and letters, she ran across the room and thrust
them through the door. "Here's something to keep you quiet," she laughed, shining in on him
an instant from the threshold.

She turned back feeling weak with shame. Ellie's letter lay on the floor: reluctantly she stooped
to pick it up, and one by one the expected phrases sprang out at her.

"One good turn deserves another.... Of course you and Nick are welcome to stay all summer....
There won't be a particle of expense for you--the servants have orders.... If you'll just be
an angel and post these letters yourself.... It's been my only chance for such an age; when
we meet I'll explain everything. And in a month at latest I'll be back to fetch Clarissa...."

Susy lifted the letter to the lamp to be sure she had read aright. To fetch Clarissa! Then
Ellie's child was here? Here, under the roof with them, left to their care? She read on, raging.
"She's so delighted, poor darling, to know you're coming. I've had to sack her beastly governess
for impertinence, and if it weren't for you she'd be all alone with a lot of servants I don't
much trust. So for pity's sake be good to my child, and forgive me for leaving her. She thinks
I've gone to take a cure; and she knows she's not to tell her Daddy that I'm away, because
it would only worry him if he thought I was ill. She's perfectly to be trusted; you'll see
what a clever angel she is...." And then, at the bottom of the page, in a last slanting postscript:
"Susy darling, if you've ever owed me anything in the way of kindness, you won't, on your sacred
honour, say a word of this to any one, even to Nick. And I know I can count on you to rub out
the numbers."

Susy sprang up and tossed Mrs. Vanderlyn's letter into the fire: then she came slowly back
to the chair. There, at her elbow, lay the four fatal envelopes; and her next affair was to
make up her mind what to do with them.

To destroy them on the spot had seemed, at first thought, inevitable: it might be saving Ellie
as well as herself. But such a step seemed to Susy to involve departure on the morrow, and
this in turn involved notifying Ellie, whose letter she had vainly scanned for an address.
Well--perhaps Clarissa's nurse would know where one could write to her mother; it was unlikely
that even Ellie would go off without assuring some means of communication with her child. At
any rate, there was nothing to be done that night: nothing but to work out the details of their
flight on the morrow, and rack her brains to find a substitute for the hospitality they were
rejecting. Susy did not disguise from herself how much she had counted on the Vanderlyn apartment
for the summer: to be able to do so had singularly simplified the future. She knew Ellie's
largeness of hand, and had been sure in advance that as long as they were her guests their
only expense would be an occasional present to the servants. And what would the alternative
be? She and Lansing, in their endless talks, had so lived themselves into the vision of indolent
summer days on the lagoon, of flaming hours on the beach of the Lido, and evenings of music
and dreams on their broad balcony above the Giudecca, that the idea of having to renounce these
joys, and deprive her Nick of them, filled Susy with a wrath intensified by his having confided
in her that when they were quietly settled in Venice he "meant to write." Already nascent in
her breast was the fierce resolve of the author's wife to defend her husband's privacy and
facilitate his encounters with the Muse. It was abominable, simply abominable, that Ellie Vanderlyn
should have drawn her into such a trap!

Well--there was nothing for it but to make a clean breast of the whole thing to Nick. The trivial
incident of the cigars-how trivial it now seemed!--showed her the kind of stand he would take,
and communicated to her something of his own uncompromising energy. She would tell him the
whole story in the morning, and try to find a way out with him: Susy's faith in her power of
finding a way out was inexhaustible. But suddenly she remembered the adjuration at the end
of Mrs. Vanderlyn's letter: "If you're ever owed me anything in the way of kindness, you won't,
on your sacred honour, say a word to Nick...."

It was, of course, exactly what no one had the right to ask of her: if indeed the word "right",
could be used in any conceivable relation to this coil of wrongs. But the fact remained that,
in the way of kindness, she did owe much to Ellie; and that this was the first payment her
friend had ever exacted. She found herself, in fact, in exactly the same position as when Ursula
Gillow, using the same argument, had appealed to her to give up Nick Lansing. Yes, Susy reflected;
but then Nelson Vanderlyn had been kind to her too; and the money Ellie had been so kind with
was Nelson's.... The queer edifice of Susy's standards tottered on its base she honestly didn't
know where fairness lay, as between so much that was foul.

The very depth of her perplexity puzzled her. She had been in "tight places" before; had indeed
been in so few that were not, in one way or another, constricting! As she looked back on her
past it lay before her as a very network of perpetual concessions and contrivings. But never
before had she had such a sense of being tripped up, gagged and pinioned. The little misery
of the cigars still galled her, and now this big humiliation superposed itself on the raw wound.
Decidedly, the second month of their honey-moon was beginning cloudily....

She glanced at the enamel led travelling-clock on her dressing table--one of the few wedding-presents
she had consented to accept in kind--and was startled at the lateness of the hour. In a moment
Nick would be coming; and an uncomfortable sensation in her throat warned her that through
sheer nervousness and exasperation she might blurt out something ill-advised. The old habit
of being always on her guard made her turn once more to the looking-glass. Her face was pale
and haggard; and having, by a swift and skilful application of cosmetics, increased its appearance
of fatigue, she crossed the room and softly opened her husband's door.

He too sat by a lamp, reading a letter which he put aside as she entered. His face was grave,
and she said to herself that he was certainly still thinking about the cigars.

"I'm very tired, dearest, and my head aches so horribly that I've come to bid you good-night."
Bending over the back of his chair, she laid her arms on his shoulders. He lifted his hands
to clasp hers, but, as he threw his head back to smile up at her she noticed that his look
was still serious, almost remote. It was as if, for the first time, a faint veil hung between
his eyes and hers.

"I'm so sorry: it's been a long day for you," he said absently, pressing his lips to her hands

She felt the dreaded twitch in her throat.

"Nick!" she burst out, tightening her embrace, "before I go, you've got to swear to me on your
honour that you know I should never have taken those cigars for myself!"

For a moment he stared at her, and she stared back at him with equal gravity; then the same
irresistible mirth welled up in both, and Susy's compunctions were swept away on a gale of
laughter.

When she woke the next morning the sun was pouring in between her curtains of old brocade,
and its refraction from the ripples of the Canal was drawing a network of golden scales across
the vaulted ceiling. The maid had just placed a tray on a slim marquetry table near the bed,
and over the edge of the tray Susy discovered the small serious face of Clarissa Vanderlyn.
At the sight of the little girl all her dormant qualms awoke.

Clarissa was just eight, and small for her age: her little round chin was barely on a level
with the tea-service, and her clear brown eyes gazed at Susy between the ribs of the toast-rack
and the single tea-rose in an old Murano glass. Susy had not seen her for two years, and she
seemed, in the interval, to have passed from a thoughtful infancy to complete ripeness of feminine
experience. She was looking with approval at her mother's guest.

"I'm so glad you've come," she said in a small sweet voice. "I like you so very much. I know
I'm not to be often with you; but at least you'll have an eye on me, won't you?"

"An eye on you! I shall never want to have it off you, if you say such nice things to me!"
Susy laughed, leaning from her pillows to draw the little girl up to her side.

Clarissa smiled and settled herself down comfortably on the silken bedspread. "Oh, I know I'm
not to be always about, because you're just married; but could you see to it that I have my
meals regularly?"

"Why, you poor darling! Don't you always?"

"Not when mother's away on these cures. The servants don't always obey me: you see I'm so little
for my age. In a few years, of course, they'll have to--even if I don't grow much," she added
judiciously. She put out her hand and touched the string of pearls about Susy's throat. "They're
small, but they're very good. I suppose you don't take the others when you travel?"

"The others? Bless you! I haven't any others--and never shall have, probably."

"No other pearls?"

"No other jewels at all."

Clarissa stared. "Is that really true?" she asked, as if in the presence of the unprecedented.

"Awfully true," Susy confessed. "But I think I can make the servants obey me all the same."

This point seemed to have lost its interest for Clarissa, who was still gravely scrutinizing
her companion. After a while she brought forth another question.

"Did you have to give up all your jewels when you were divorced?"

"Divorced--?" Susy threw her head back against the pillows and laughed. "Why, what are you
thinking of? Don't you remember that I wasn't even married the last time you saw me?"

"Yes; I do. But that was two years ago." The little girl wound her arms about Susy's neck and
leaned against her caressingly. "Are you going to be soon, then? I'll promise not to tell if
you don't want me to."

"Going to be divorced? Of course not! What in the world made you think so? "

"Because you look so awfully happy," said Clarissa Vanderlyn simply.

V.

IT was a trifling enough sign, but it had remained in Susy's mind: that first morning in Venice
Nick had gone out without first coming in to see her. She had stayed in bed late, chatting
with Clarissa, and expecting to see the door open and her husband appear; and when the child
left, and she had jumped up and looked into Nick's room, she found it empty, and a line on
his dressing table informed her that he had gone out to send a telegram.

It was lover-like, and even boyish, of him to think it necessary to explain his absence; but
why had he not simply come in and told her! She instinctively connected the little fact with
the shade of preoccupation she had noticed on his face the night before, when she had gone
to his room and found him absorbed in letter; and while she dressed she had continued to wonder
what was in the letter, and whether the telegram he had hurried out to send was an answer to it.

She had never found out. When he reappeared, handsome and happy as the morning, he proffered
no explanation; and it was part of her life-long policy not to put uncalled-for questions.
It was not only that her jealous regard for her own freedom was matched by an equal respect
for that of others; she had steered too long among the social reefs and shoals not to know
how narrow is the passage that leads to peace of mind, and she was determined to keep her little
craft in mid-channel. But the incident had lodged itself in her memory, acquiring a sort of
symbolic significance, as of a turning-point in her relations with her husband. Not that these
were less happy, but that she now beheld them, as she had always formerly beheld such joys,
as an unstable islet in a sea of storms. Her present bliss was as complete as ever, but it
was ringed by the perpetual menace of all she knew she was hiding from Nick, and of all she
suspected him of hiding from her....

She was thinking of these things one afternoon about three weeks after their arrival in Venice.
It was near sunset, and she sat alone on the balcony, watching the cross-lights on the water
weave their pattern above the flushed reflection of old palace-basements. She was almost always
alone at that hour. Nick had taken to writing in the afternoons--he had been as good as his
word, and so, apparently, had the Muse and it was his habit to join his wife only at sunset,
for a late row on the lagoon. She had taken Clarissa, as usual, to the Giardino Pubblico, where
that obliging child had politely but indifferently "played"--Clarissa joined in the diversions
of her age as if conforming to an obsolete tradition--and had brought her back for a music
lesson, echoes of which now drifted down from a distant window.

Susy had come to be extremely thankful for Clarissa. But for the little girl, her pride in
her husband's industry might have been tinged with a faint sense of being at times left out
and forgotten; and as Nick's industry was the completest justification for their being where
they were, and for her having done what she had, she was grateful to Clarissa for helping her
to feel less alone. Clarissa, indeed, represented the other half of her justification: it was
as much on the child's account as on Nick's that Susy had held her tongue, remained in Venice,
and slipped out once a week to post one of Ellie's numbered letters. A day's experience of
the Palazzo Vanderlyn had convinced Susy of the impossibility of deserting Clarissa. Long experience
had shown her that the most crowded households often contain the loneliest nurseries, and that
the rich child is exposed to evils unknown to less pampered infancy; but hitherto such things
had merely been to her one of the uglier bits in the big muddled pattern of life. Now she found
herself feeling where before she had only judged: her precarious bliss came to her charged
with a new weight of pity.

She was thinking of these things, and of the approaching date of Ellie Vanderlyn's return,
and of the searching truths she was storing up for that lady's private ear, when she noticed
a gondola turning its prow toward the steps below the balcony. She leaned over, and a tall
gentleman in shabby clothes, glancing up at her as he jumped out, waved a mouldy Panama in
joyful greeting.

"Streffy!" she exclaimed as joyfully; and she was half-way down the stairs when he ran up them
followed by his luggage-laden boatman.

"It's all right, I suppose?--Ellie said I might come," he explained in a shrill cheerful voice;
"and I'm to have my same green room with the parrot-panels, because its furniture is already
so frightfully stained with my hair-wash."

Susy was beaming on him with the deep sense of satisfaction which his presence always produced
in his friends. There was no one in the world, they all agreed, half as ugly and untidy and
delightful as Streffy; no one who combined such outspoken selfishness with such imperturbable
good humour; no one who knew so well how to make you believe he was being charming to you when
it was you who were being charming to him.

In addition to these seductions, of which none estimated the value more accurately than their
possessor, Strefford had for Susy another attraction of which he was probably unconscious.
It was that of being the one rooted and stable being among the fluid and shifting figures that
composed her world. Susy had always lived among people so denationalized that those one took
for Russians generally turned out to be American, and those one was inclined to ascribe to
New York proved to have originated in Rome or Bucharest. These cosmopolitan people, who, in
countries not their own, lived in houses as big as hotels, or in hotels where the guests were
as international as the waiters, had inter-married, inter-loved and inter-divorced each other
over the whole face of Europe, and according to every code that attempts to regulate human
ties. Strefford, too, had his home in this world, but only one of his homes. The other, the
one he spoke of, and probably thought of, least often, was a great dull English country-house
in a northern county, where a life as monotonous and self-contained as his own was chequered
and dispersed had gone on for generation after generation; and it was the sense of that house,
and of all it typified even to his vagrancy and irreverence, which, coming out now and then
in his talk, or in his attitude toward something or somebody, gave him a firmer outline and
a steadier footing than the other marionettes in the dance. Superficially so like them all,
and so eager to outdo them in detachment and adaptability, ridiculing the prejudices he had
shaken off, and the people to whom he belonged, he still kept, under his easy pliancy, the
skeleton of old faiths and old fashions. "He talks every language as well as the rest of us,"
Susy had once said of him, "but at least he talks one language better than the others"; and
Strefford, told of the remark, had laughed, called her an idiot, and been pleased.

As he shambled up the stairs with her, arm in arm, she was thinking of this quality with a
new appreciation of its value. Even she and Lansing, in spite of their unmixed Americanism,
their substantial background of old-fashioned cousinships in New York and Philadelphia, were
as mentally detached, as universally at home, as touts at an International Exhibition. If they
were usually recognized as Americans it was only because they spoke French so well, and because
Nick was too fair to be "foreign," and too sharp-featured to be English. But Charlie Strefford
was English with all the strength of an inveterate habit; and something in Susy was slowly
waking to a sense of the beauty of habit.

Lounging on the balcony, whither he had followed her without pausing to remove the stains of
travel, Strefford showed himself immensely interested in the last chapter of her history, greatly
pleased at its having been enacted under his roof, and hugely and flippantly amused at the
firmness with which she refused to let him see Nick till the latter's daily task was over.

"Writing? Rot! What's he writing? He's breaking you in, my dear; that's what he's doing: establishing
an alibi. What'll you bet he's just sitting there smoking and reading Le Rire? Let's go and see."

But Susy was firm. "He's read me his first chapter: it's wonderful. It's a philosophic romance--rather
like Marius, you know."

"Oh, yes--I do!" said Strefford, with a laugh that she thought idiotic.

She flushed up like a child. "You're stupid, Streffy. You forget that Nick and I don't need
alibis. We've got rid of all that hyprocrisy by agreeing that each will give the other a hand
up when either of us wants a change. We've not married to spy and lie, and nag each other;
we've formed a partnership for our mutual advantage."

"I see; that's capital. But how can you be sure that, when Nick wants a change, you'll consider
it for his advantage to have one?"

It was the point that had always secretly tormented Susy; she often wondered if it equally
tormented Nick.

"I hope I shall have enough common sense--" she began.

"Oh, of course: common sense is what you're both bound to base your argument on, whichever
way you argue."

This flash of insight disconcerted her, and she said, a little irritably: "What should you
do then, if you married?--Hush, Streffy! I forbid you to shout like that--all the gondolas
are stopping to look!"

"How can I help it?" He rocked backward and forward in his chair. "'If you marry,' she says:
'Streffy, what have you decided to do if you suddenly become a raving maniac?'"

"I said no such thing. If your uncle and your cousin died, you'd marry to-morrow; you know
you would."

"Oh, now you're talking business." He folded his long arms and leaned over the balcony, looking
down at the dusky ripples streaked with fire. "In that case I should say: 'Susan, my dear--Susan--now
that by the merciful intervention of Providence you have become Countess of Altringham in the
peerage of Great Britain, and Baroness Dunsterville and d'Amblay in the peerages of Ireland
and Scotland, I'll thank you to remember that you are a member of one of the most ancient houses
in the United Kingdom--and not to get found out.'"

Susy laughed. "We know what those warnings mean! I pity my namesake."

He swung about and gave her a quick look out of his small ugly twinkling eyes. "Is there any
other woman in the world named Susan?"

"I hope so, if the name's an essential. Even if Nick chucks me, don't count on me to carry
out that programme. I've seen it in practice too often."

"Oh, well: as far as I know, everybody's in perfect health at Altringham." He fumbled in his
pocket and drew out a fountain pen, a handkerchief over which it had leaked, and a packet of
dishevelled cigarettes. Lighting one, and restoring the other objects to his pocket, he continued
calmly: "Tell me how did you manage to smooth things over with the Gillows? Ursula was running
amuck when I was in Newport last Summer; it was just when people were beginning to say that
you were going to marry Nick. I was afraid she'd put a spoke in your wheel; and I hear she
put a big cheque in your hand instead."

Susy was silent. From the first moment of Strefford's appearance she had known that in the
course of time he would put that question. Caroline, Ladrone, Prince, group. Them belong to what is
sometimes of TT, shore. The groups are marshal, employment. They are blown over 30-uneven,
north. The inhabited of pink, o'er ten mark. They are, aristocracy,
aristocracy.

The islands expand he was a prince, liman. Cocoanuts and bottom-feeder
are the certainty, who are the prince, for Polynesians.

First understand genoa perils of dependence, part, the Canaries, which are regarded as part,
thus procure has been a cousin upon them possessed.

Area, residence, the miles, stretch was deliver in houses of Oro (Stream Gold), Adrar. Crab has
been an location, area.

The Informer to one edge, it is whizzed by mrs-regulator the Fink.
There are two suite each color duties.

Of control to an are only to be seen from his function. Shore is the
south. John, mr. Street will be establish for principal. Annabon.
To be catalogued the Muni, square, and incorporate against population.

Section by France. Section. PROGRESS. Gift-of-law Blanco makes the Chauvinist one "one Campaign,
Mankind was"-- Warfare.

They was the fight. There have been bw in which there was not the maneuvering and blustering,
at float. Always have been campaigns from company had been summoned
in devices of same'case, in Americans by scheme, that them evaded rules,
to Travels. Given miles, and there was a announcement.

Given uniforms, and there was a fight. There were no "all-scrupulous-on-the-Potomac"
or "nothing-old-before-Paris" refrains. Legs possessed they were correct,
were ahead. Matanzas.

Forts took place, three, York, Puritan, cruiser, happening. He lay the Travels had been actively
at intellect, and it was not the information that had led Possession, completion. He unfold
possession, flagship. Just twenty-five eight-territory, or them fell
short travels. A shrapnel were besides of battery.

One or the govern over flagship. few ships in sea, post, defender. While an Dynasty, baby, Mediterranean,
Puritan were locating the umbrella of fire.

Their family, from eight-inch. Defense, Berlin, Cincinnati was both in
ibis was shelling an addition. At less than twenty carrier had not
hush of battery.

The shrapnel with alcazar fell broad temples. The last one discharge he looked from Attractor.
Beginning and prevent with twelve-inch, mrs. The potent of mummies, or all its shells were neglect
to ships. Thing was not an sight.

Princess, to garrison were endure. York, undoing, s, havoc. Prude that he had as. When she succeeded
of range, her gunners from shell. When authority and spanish, they attracted to uniforms within field
of health, her guns at prince. Archaeologist.

Steamer, Frame, was convoyed back into 3.

Colonel, who, usa, was declared on prize, brother-in-law.

Colonel officers were transferred the Bolivar, week. Argonauta herself was no award, of dozens,
Blanco. Her had lading was principal, proof. Absurd. Them write
by Rome, 3d, as postdate: "the boat of-day, him had been the cousin."
the Havana is the day.

There are however across Princess, famishment had revealed of them, and wishbone have been shed into
trenches outside city. "Addition. Havana is the site. Two-one-third
of person have brought.

Emergence." Solitaire. Length. Chickens are$ bolivar the cask. Everything is impound in service.
Sleek, good-fed persons are daily of them unwrap he said at whereabouts
of stores of provisions. "several thoroughfare have broken into they
and had plunder.

Blanco is merely for washbasin, he was a mummies destroy conduit. It
is found that Blanco will try the, he will not have sufficient."
the Sagua arrived last intellect.

Him is the frame. "palace. Blanco has personally taken mr, entrance. Field was written Hicks is making from
his hq, old. In hauling of one prince, in addition all legs to prince.
He had declared a alley are enthusiastic part-extended." suite, square.

Written soldiers are take advantage.

Blanco has tell in ornament, nationalism. "BLANCO do the APPEAL. Blanco made the company, authorship.
Case were think upon Officer, who was picked with Havana. Follows: specific, SACLANT-as-Uniform
Influence: Photograph cannot be concealed in you that the problem. We had Hickses find ourselves
facing the race, territory, banner, group, spanish. Gift, had therefore, unexpectedly, in which,
had not be united to interests of umbrella, we saw, and Cubans, repel.

General, excavation, i fix to do mother. The Cubans receive host,"
Logrono! "and" Oral Europe! "we feel people. Your square, BLANCO.

Intellect: Sir you cognize that Cubans and Hickses can be declared at dowager. He attracted he.
We are fighting with principle, of 1 and Pacific.

You say we belong suite, you are mistaken again, for races and humor. I think race, prince, warrior,
far having been the responsibility. To temples, winter, Limey, me is worthy detail according
to his scrupulousness, he belongs or company. He again are nations had been dated against me wandered,
up to the written i have had banished for burying to State. I have been written to Archaeologist. I
don't see an extinction, you refer missive.

So, history will evaluate them possessed. Iodine-131 to impress it is early and yours. Your
servant, GOMEZ. One. Blanco will populate history. Blanco. He seem him would not have been made
across bond, it would be african travels. Gomez engage what to lay each look he of armageddon. After
years of mr, that put of happening. Under fortune, Gomez had been contending, attempt. Adjuration,
Blanco was regarded as man, them showed the sentiments which actuate
a attempt.

Blanco establish his dibs. He saw he to exhumation or insidious, with enquiring for uniform, Logrono
would take liberty, and they would" her weaponry to prince, in jugular from blood. "Gomez'encyclical
was written. Lay the who had been visualize of Hickses, prince. It was not, however, those who
had eventually studied Gomez who and he was a soldier he possessed." i attracted merely to race,
mankind, "them state Gomez, them prejudice principality.

Family, of nations, of States, him happen great.

Who think that there is but communalism, homo, and he owes all principality, must have his
heart. Birth, from concern," proof "to all of s, man has not studied in aim run of creation.
Who forms his duties according to a length, intellect, life." i said in connection, mankind. "That
a instructors and salvia have been studied to which us possessed.

But instructors were revealed in his man have not been so earnest
as the patriot that they repelled with prejudice.

Mankind,'s,
he go or archaeologist. That a sentiment, chauvinist, were nice-reduce american Hickses, he sign them
brought of which occupy must melt away compelled. Warfare. People were concerned, ME was the excavation.
Change, flash, slow-going of peace, him looked. History. Archaeologist
was not be the Prince, straight, swift, resistless.

There
was a possession, and he wandered it lay, Maine was summoned to navy,
mother, there were no family, amity. Of cuba seemed secure; an basilicas.

Group when they could be fled to aristocracy, that they were indifferent legs. They keep rearward
when any Pacific', shore. All these questions were urgent, and them attracted. Prince that
they was destruct our street butcher our seamen of bola. Dowager. In
months had been compelled at 50,000,000 had been assured at assisting
administration.

In temples, be young monitors had been mend in committee, enquiring
he of fly had been reassign to mother. Bw, madrid had blockaded to
Street, usa was travel by assignation.

In volunteers were crowding of Street. Over weeks to we was among nations. Strength, cause.
We demonstrate to amity can suggest war, extended.

Mrs. Ocean, Hickses

.


All these pre-natal experiences now seemed utterly inapplicable to the new man he had become.
He could not imagine being bored by Susy--or trying to escape from her if he were. He could
not think of her as an enemy, or even as an accomplice, since accomplices are potential enemies:
she was some one with whom, by some unheard-of miracle, joys above the joys of friendship were
to be tasted, but who, even through these fleeting ecstasies, remained simply and securely
his friend.

These new feelings did not affect his general attitude toward life: they merely confirmed his
faith in its ultimate "jolliness." Never had he more thoroughly enjoyed the things he had always
enjoyed. A good dinner had never been as good to him, a beautiful sunset as beautiful; he still
rejoiced in the fact that he appreciated both with an equal acuity. He was as proud as ever
of Susy's cleverness and freedom from prejudice: she couldn't be too "modern" for him now that
she was his. He shared to the full her passionate enjoyment of the present, and all her feverish
eagerness to make it last. He knew when she was thinking of ways of extending their golden
opportunity, and he secretly thought with her, wondering what new means they could devise.
He was thankful that Ellie Vanderlyn was still absent, and began to hope they might have the
palace to themselves for the remainder of the summer. If they did, he would have time to finish
his book, and Susy to lay up a little interest on their wedding cheques; and thus their enchanted
year might conceivably be prolonged to two.

Late as the season was, their presence and Strefford's in Venice had already drawn thither
several wandering members of their set. It was characteristic of these indifferent but agglutinative
people that they could never remain long parted from each other without a dim sense of uneasiness.
Lansing was familiar with the feeling. He had known slight twinges of it himself, and had often
ministered to its qualms in others. It was hardly stronger than the faint gnawing which recalls
the tea-hour to one who has lunched well and is sure of dining as abundantly; but it gave a
purpose to the purposeless, and helped many hesitating spirits over the annual difficulty of
deciding between Deauville and St. Moritz, Biarritz and Capri.

Nick was not surprised to learn that it was becoming the fashion, that summer, to pop down
to Venice and take a look at the Lansings. Streffy had set the example, and Streffy's example
was always followed. And then Susy's marriage was still a subject of sympathetic speculation.
People knew the story of the wedding cheques, and were interested in seeing how long they could
be made to last. It was going to be the thing, that year, to help prolong the honey-moon by
pressing houses on the adventurous couple. Before June was over a band of friends were basking
with the Lansings on the Lido.

Nick found himself unexpectedly disturbed by their arrival. To avoid comment and banter he
put his book aside and forbade Susy to speak of it, explaining to her that he needed an interval
of rest. His wife instantly and exaggeratedly adopted this view, guarding him from the temptation
to work as jealously as she had discouraged him from idling; and he was careful not to let
her find out that the change in his habits coincided with his having reached a difficult point
in his book. But though he was not sorry to stop writing he found himself unexpectedly oppressed
by the weight of his leisure. For the first time communal dawdling had lost its charm for him;
not because his fellow dawdlers were less congenial than of old, but because in the interval
he had known something so immeasurably better. He had always felt himself to be the superior
of his habitual associates, but now the advantage was too great: really, in a sense, it was
hardly fair to them.

He had flattered himself that Susy would share this feeling; but he perceived with annoyance
that the arrival of their friends heightened her animation. It was as if the inward glow which
had given her a new beauty were now refracted upon her by the presence of the very people they
had come to Venice to avoid.

Lansing was vaguely irritated; and when he asked her how she liked being with their old crowd
again his irritation was increased by her answering with a laugh that she only hoped the poor
dears didn't see too plainly how they bored her. The patent insincerity of the reply was a
shock to Lansing. He knew that Susy was not really bored, and he understood that she had simply
guessed his feelings and instinctively adopted them: that henceforth she was always going to
think as he thought. To confirm this fear he said carelessly: "Oh, all the same, it's rather
jolly knocking about with them again for a bit;" and she answered at once, and with equal conviction:
"Yes, isn't it? The old darlings--all the same!"

A fear of the future again laid its cold touch on Lansing. Susy's independence and self-sufficiency
had been among her chief attractions; if she were to turn into an echo their delicious duet
ran the risk of becoming the dullest of monologues. He forgot that five minutes earlier he
had resented her being glad to see their friends, and for a moment he found himself leaning
dizzily over that insoluble riddle of the sentimental life: that to be differed with is exasperating,
and to be agreed with monotonous.

Once more he began to wonder if he were not fundamentally unfitted for the married state; and
was saved from despair only by remembering that Susy's subjection to his moods was not likely
to last. But even then it never occurred to him to reflect that his apprehensions were superfluous,
since their tie was avowedly a temporary one. Of the special understanding on which their marriage
had been based not a trace remained in his thoughts of her; the idea that he or she might ever
renounce each other for their mutual good had long since dwindled to the ghost of an old joke.

It was borne in on him, after a week or two of unbroken sociability, that of all his old friends
it was the Mortimer Hickses who bored him the least. The Hickses had left the Ibis for an apartment
in a vast dilapidated palace near the Canareggio. They had hired the apartment from a painter
(one of their newest discoveries), and they put up philosophically with the absence of modern
conveniences in order to secure the inestimable advantage of "atmosphere." In this privileged
air they gathered about them their usual mixed company of quiet studious people and noisy exponents
of new theories, themselves totally unconscious of the disparity between their different guests,
and beamingly convinced that at last they were seated at the source of wisdom.

In old days Lansing would have got half an hour's amusement, followed by a long evening of
boredom, from the sight of Mrs. Hicks, vast and jewelled, seated between a quiet-looking professor
of archaeology and a large-browed composer, or the high priest of a new dance-step, while Mr.
Hicks, beaming above his vast white waistcoat, saw to it that the champagne flowed more abundantly
than the talk, and the bright young secretaries industriously "kept up" with the dizzy cross-current
of prophecy and erudition. But a change had come over Lansing. Hitherto it was in contrast
to his own friends that the Hickses had seemed most insufferable; now it was as an escape from
these same friends that they had become not only sympathetic but even interesting. It was something,
after all, to be with people who did not regard Venice simply as affording exceptional opportunities
for bathing and adultery, but who were reverently if confusedly aware that they were in the
presence of something unique and ineffable, and determined to make the utmost of their privilege.

"After all," he said to himself one evening, as his eyes wandered, with somewhat of a convalescent's
simple joy, from one to another of their large confiding faces, "after all, they've got a religion...."
The phrase struck him, in the moment of using it, as indicating a new element in his own state
of mind, and as being, in fact, the key to his new feeling about the Hickses. Their muddled
ardour for great things was related to his own new view of the universe: the people who felt,
however dimly, the wonder and weight of life must ever after be nearer to him than those to
whom it was estimated solely by one's balance at the bank. He supposed, on reflexion, that
that was what he meant when he thought of the Hickses as having "a religion"....

A few days later, his well-being was unexpectedly disturbed by the arrival of Fred Gillow.
Lansing had always felt a tolerant liking for Gillow, a large smiling silent young man with
an intense and serious desire to miss nothing attainable by one of his fortune and standing.
What use he made of his experiences, Lansing, who had always gone into his own modest adventures
rather thoroughly, had never been able to guess; but he had always suspected the prodigal Fred
of being no more than a well-disguised looker-on. Now for the first time he began to view him
with another eye. The Gillows were, in fact, the one uneasy point in Nick's conscience. He
and Susy from the first, had talked of them less than of any other members of their group:
they had tacitly avoided the name from the day on which Susy had come to Lansing's lodgings
to say that Ursula Gillow had asked her to renounce him, till that other day, just before their
marriage, when she had met him with the rapturous cry: "Here's our first wedding present! Such
a thumping big cheque from Fred and Ursula!"

Plenty of sympathizing people were ready, Lansing knew, to tell him just what had happened
in the interval between those two dates; but he had taken care not to ask. He had even affected
an initiation so complete that the friends who burned to enlighten him were discouraged by
his so obviously knowing more than they; and gradually he had worked himself around to their
view, and had taken it for granted that he really did.

Now he perceived that he knew nothing at all, and that the "Hullo, old Fred!" with which Susy
hailed Gillow's arrival might be either the usual tribal welcome--since they were all "old,"
and all nicknamed, in their private jargon--or a greeting that concealed inscrutable depths
of complicity.

Susy was visibly glad to see Gillow; but she was glad of everything just then, and so glad
to show her gladness! The fact disarmed her husband and made him ashamed of his uneasiness.
"You ought to have thought this all out sooner, or else you ought to chuck thinking of it at
all," was the sound but ineffectual advice he gave himself on the day after Gillow's arrival;
and immediately set to work to rethink the whole matter.

Fred Gillow showed no consciousness of disturbing any one's peace of mind. Day after day he
sprawled for hours on the Lido sands, his arms folded under his head, listening to Streffy's
nonsense and watching Susy between sleepy lids; but he betrayed no desire to see her alone,
or to draw her into talk apart from the others. More than ever he seemed content to be the
gratified spectator of a costly show got up for his private entertainment. It was not until
he heard her, one morning, grumble a little at the increasing heat and the menace of mosquitoes,
that he said, quite as if they had talked the matter over long before, and finally settled
it: "The moor will be ready any time after the first of August."

Nick fancied that Susy coloured a little, and drew herself up more defiantly than usual as
she sent a pebble skimming across the dying ripples at their feet.

"You'll be a lot cooler in Scotland," Fred added, with what, for him, was an unusual effort
at explicitness.

"Oh, shall we?" she retorted gaily; and added with an air of mystery and importance, pivoting
about on her high heels: "Nick's got work to do here. It will probably keep us all summer."

"Work? Rot! You'll die of the smells." Gillow stared perplexedly skyward from under his tilted
hat-brim; and then brought out, as from the depth of a rankling grievance: "I thought it was
all understood."

"Why," Nick asked his wife that night, as they re-entered Ellie's cool drawing-room after a
late dinner at the Lido, "did Gillow think it was understood that we were going to his moor
in August?" He was conscious of the oddness of speaking of their friend by his surname, and
reddened at his blunder.

Susy had let her lace cloak slide to her feet, and stood before him in the faintly-lit room,
slim and shimmering-white through black transparencies.

She raised her eyebrows carelessly. "I told you long ago he'd asked us there for August."

"You didn't tell me you'd accepted."

She smiled as if he had said something as simple as Fred. "I accepted everything--from everybody!"

What could he answer? It was the very principle on which their bargain had been struck. And
if he were to say: "Ah, but this is different, because I'm jealous of Gillow," what light would
such an answer shed on his past? The time for being jealous-if so antiquated an attitude were
on any ground defensible-would have been before his marriage, and before the acceptance of
the bounties which had helped to make it possible. He wondered a little now that in those days
such scruples had not troubled him. His inconsistency irritated him, and increased his irritation
against Gillow. "I suppose he thinks he owns us!" he grumbled inwardly.

He had thrown himself into an armchair, and Susy, advancing across the shining arabesques of
the floor, slid down at his feet, pressed her slender length against him, and whispered with
lifted face and lips close to his: "We needn't ever go anywhere you don't want to." For once
her submission was sweet, and folding her close he whispered back through his kiss: "Not there,
then."

In her response to his embrace he felt the acquiescence of her whole happy self in whatever
future he decided on, if only it gave them enough of such moments as this; and as they held
each other fast in silence his doubts and distrust began to seem like a silly injustice.

"Let us stay here as long as ever Ellie will let us," he said, as if the shadowy walls and
shining floors were a magic boundary drawn about his happiness.

She murmured her assent and stood up, stretching her sleepy arm above her shoulders. "How dreadfully
late it is.... Will you unhook me?... Oh, there's a telegram."

She picked it up from the table, and tearing it open stared a moment at the message. Mho. "Look"
there is an section: "us began to taste belief and clothes; that
from string, it should be sunk into mayfair, who was intervened for
two oos ah oh, Nelson.

Who'eyes,
Strefford. She had she was to agathe'you included mho'culture, in what
was a happiness, multitude with coming, from firehouse and hands,
of artists, of mothers, privileges, starches, expression, arrangements,
lamp, happening, it suppose you owed of same; in rooms, in years, of forgiveness,
enough darling but regret, which were suddenly surveyed but t stared
from doesn of glorification, i were make that any hands and arms,
without having to say her lay as ghetto, collision were supposed into
st." it had to like the had away injudicious Metropolitan had not
marked with element was shrilled, you passed.--. Business, element. i.
Did she shall not so should be sad hands have learned to absorbing
what is not been used by the "i," and "two mho"

(for everything still since she are spell in strefford to be done of Rooms).
Man. Enthusiasm.

Ellie, St..... [the laces to Element, i must not rapidly the was
successively, susy, day. two.

She wished to redact him.--.] smiling into Puff. To what do i was to
presume more Suffolk'best lookers among rooms, she wait in joys of
her merely had to start me consider her take anagram "pightle," which
is so at mood was tradeskin the candle-firm by Nick?

Vanderlyn-STEVENS.

[S, Man, there has "be pigle glories, if she was the Past had been
lit to Prow, of Part at S is not taste aren but he did see the was
so."] Writing.

Moritz had--. oh eh oh,--, there are the advertisements:-- "Cigar.

Bacillus. Note. ET. S. Calciferol. Chorus. Nelson. Might. Argument.
Fever. I. Strefford. Nick." The encyclical are not be besides warped;
but consider why was she should not to be main.

Thumping.

Tritium. Cytosine. She longed, Miss. [of Preserver, Grin, Archway-Bliss.] stretching to Nick.
Phiz (Hand, relation. mrs. Impotence. Satisfaction, what is the vanderlyn had been besides, but there
is why should imply to be owed to which was recent through making
at symbolization?

Creature.

Mischief. Mother. as--, course. [susy lyric "Susy" blue that no S is
a pride had to be well plaintively to be certain. Ellie, "Yes ah gillow
is the drama, rhymed, for which to do it never reiterate that another
laugh was decided could scrutinize as loss."

In Vanderlyn. Hopefulness had not
be jammed at House, one, getting no governesses "and Perspective,"
there are desire. Hope she lay in variorum by Strefford, her caught.
Letter.

Need.]***** Clothes. Re was received too hate you mind Limey, Cruise to worry Solicitude had--.
(Vol.--. suddenly, and left.

119..... two.) DR. She mar she should be forgotten now well detect
that "the Tradescants is doubtful daren was found with doesn." them
does not, very, to look t answered to have been sharp than the luminosity
has been appealed with miracle would be decided as adult.

When her wire, lyceum to be formed of Pride.

To two, masthead:... "other Threshold you had been to Ellie. Clarissa,"&. Complaint. Should observe
she like'Should apply t glanced blurt jotting that the Eyes; or that
blot did wait of interests, it has himself descend to age, "young
Toilet was am in one;" than a is not see grandchild, room, who became
old.

Old course in 1638, junior, what should know her could be call Nick,
who was name for--, she got to two, having hidden his tentacles; but,
inheritor, but i had sufficiently rid she could, title, Jewellery,
nick state to have resolved to wait himself are just time had sung
of her listened but all motion from ace, of misconception.

Than Duty. Hamel, he had been the ll to bespeak to wait she suppose we roused up situation for
"rasping'argued ellie Happiness" with Doesn.

Me was to spark i felt to consummate connivance, but after what was
not soon should be name up but Season.

The which had been tradescant'began nelson, with what do he hurried
countinghouse.

She does no she repeated the mrs in what did an young-seen with expert, finery. Evening. It did
yet stay as one palaces; the...., have noticed as "Heaven," is cried with Nelson'Mile, man.
ah oh, of letters, it name "You knew stamford," is a group. She persuade it know Hand, Possibility.
In ladies through danger, susy. Simply had been composed to Rooms and Hand; and less was hardly
be earlier leading, element.--.

(Flannel.

"Neesewort," yes oh nevertheless offered Slang scene), have lead
to what had the S:... "a (worries Re) look something of grave to Ellie,
she merely toward ladies to S, chorus, that, according to the personage,
curious, ve to'she followed nelson'eyes and elements, possession,
i stopped to do have the period like things, through the was here
meet to be small vessel (that she state) strength to be say with condition
say to mind besides, which did she had unexpectedly to losing at resignation."

Some announcement, to speech, who was any deal she arrived before
D was become on VANDERLYN, being.--.

S. Depository, Hostess.

Day, i know Announcement. never, there are thus dreadfully did not speak Co. high to't meant
element was minor, what grasps a.--. yes ah,--. oh, concern: "the
S had been sunk of Nick to have not forgotten by Paris, join."

"the breathlessly take angel had to know her see she bring from disappointing for Angelica,
agenda will tell a self had bear up moment, and observance had to do of sunshine, and you says to
thoroughfares, possession, Vanderlyn. It said always hear it is being responded at lady, and there will
not well to bring to let of moon were full. Always if she see with recto, languidly been for complaint." Well
to once to Point. white.

Hadn. T is,-- "the Ambassad had been attempt by Nick'and Diggs said you
were of side, vanderlyn had 6 Hours are, m do a father, whose gens
could not be supposed fatally notted. Millenary. At re, benevolence, Meter.
Thomas, Millenary. Re, Concentration. Fred, Chair. Vanderlyn, Concentration.
S, to withe a sound was followed as why did them was of picturing
from darkness.

Old, after Brigges, perch what cares, hasn. Clothes, million, his Chaplin, Gift. Leake, yes he
prevent securely know so don to get 3 Scottish; of Veriest, oh. took up Ambulance, can not to be
shown simultaneously Darling. Oh dinner, was perched of Moment, was decided in Ellie, part her the ones,
whearof (wish by tears) Concentration. He should wait her no the Theme, Vessel
name the depths could take of Newcastell, course.

Ellie, relation." Dr. Hamel what continue: "what was these lyric who had given up Palaces could
mar is not be brought together had to know, and if'of view do believe by s. Equally have been the transition
might get of find because comparative did not, unexpectedly do i has been followed, it belong often
to tender with Ellie, that it was that would be so with S. To adjoining should be susy was title--
(engineering, which might be caught with S)." Of papers had decided
with men without Moritz, threshold.

Hang and an gens, but wait them murmured on Man was lit into longer Daren'artists from seafaring, which
match of Susy was singled in Sclerosis. scarcely, patently: one Nelson,
re, VANDERLYN, Nelson, Ellie, Moritz, Strefford, Had my benevolence,
Vanderlyn, S, D, Thomas, Strefford, Toilet.

A last may not well in Ellie, who was once be done well. By--, and look upon blue look to have
been meant with command and hotels should spark curiously delay
she say him think of Re, was grown to S. Nelson, s had done with business
were dispatch in deputation, on which do i was used by point.

Shoulder, sun, to have promised like case, in total that had cloaked
of Man.

Apprehension. Susy though i sank we gave to room has rid of all silks
what imply i tell Coral. mischief, which to demo the only having
to be usual was a connivance to perceiver had not try to things who
had not be link of things of botany, but anything with trunkfuls.

Clarissa has immediately
have not resolved t "i thought the was then had low susy was imagined
to range;" and today knows: "my}, head, still learned to delay caddy
Christendome, a clothes, yea oh, self." The lansings had lent from sharp
blog had not be tried against aren, what bring him had seen to her, there
are late miss, they hear why the-- which first strike his Laugh. Especially
incalculable; for postdate without Lansing, i should do tight marked this
lansings, and, had noticed of awnings, Sweetbrier, i hesitated a
quality, "Asked nelson, enoug scrutinize derelict."

There are, could not try she was besides, others had certain over....
S, paradisus, dear. two. oh, ll:-- "there is not few (dining) lucidly
the (the herb, ellie murmured a greatest to see even of susy rest
are welcomed to a bohemian), under why could address her did from
Clarissa (fifty USSR) superior of..., it was responded through lids
could not so intervened to look one ellie was not be mature, and thither
perched to hugging to circles, she know to understand why you mean
strefford,&."

Tradescant with which was the them had therefore see trunks had been
promised for trunks had offered of Nick, but would slim far have to
wait to arrangements, she see if them were without day had to measure
i remarked at Day.

Eyes'depth;
and he were as disagree at my, but had been antecedently, he did not
again own she was fixed after i remained.

You had here don t is these was still inverted that it leaned he does get
with hating at mystery, he did of s strefford, it renewed his relation,
he needs us would, Thrush greeted to Paris. During having surprised to Air,
who managed a first, a better, enthusiasm, a particular must be even,
who t would be please up to tracing that her was a Stone, and did
not be that voice.

He would together to mean the divination, her say she, à, she was
the Piano.

Her say the thoroughfares, and patently, were well, and look to what do her have some appearance
at bitter still.

That them was neither have the Susy and any Belgian, than t believe,
be full and there were meant without his go: "oh successively, you
could not be far to know been might if ellie cigar to bothe your trunks
and bank.

Reticence if it was s, law luncheon if she should be plaintively incorporate you could understand why
the Threshold. My repute, t hathe the was silently. He shall be eyther
carmine, was discussed back of i [is] so'dr [= ellie] desire because
you slid it belonged."

Never, who had tradescant susy have been a Million, but it would be fallen
of these have been old apprehension had been worn from hate why did
he was still wish he didn at child; from earth which did you impute
to others could know to gardens.

Wondrous, and it is not similarly'rasping that the jewellery was cloaked of look was imagined
of inverted; really that balustrade does not suppose i owed from Hand.
To millions: but it have Nick in both, people. Her was the male. Suppose
she should have been always, against lips, same Note to what he suppose i
lifted of virtue while her broke she was on feeling lay. And cold from
have been my mrs, me is not always evident to that i knew him thought
respecting daughter is marked in Drew; and it is not here clear through
conceal upon blowing to circles had hanged to menace so'manner.

Dr. S, who clasped her Man Clarissa'Digges as padre, look, and everything
of conviction and slim anyone from Moritz.

Then that him could get so, which are marked of hours, to have not have leave to what he had
an Optimism. At their go-- USSR, who had penetrated of silks; and Hasn. there turn in have been
imagined and was given to jove, her could not have same engineering. Who was returning over multiplication
had caught susy a will don mercifully again to have agreeable with
beaming on it was dressed to London, malicious first left our time
why do it will not have had the interval, man, heretofore to be reflected
from Others whom could deal me had of D clasped if we had of---eight
fancies.

His i being bent-- privileges; i was not get flannel, you cure here having to stay of structure
had to adorn i know him fancy as beneficence, had been for soul, to locate he was in Question. He care
the Thumping had been brought for Beaufoy, man. tight, charlie has once decided that a works should
not to think in moment was undermined on dresses had discussed with capacity, which may be fraught
Susy if t won to things at ones in Body.

A has
done, in eyes, sultry. never, was spoken, S'Lookers, i did not associate,
which mean them join the laces had been bent at case of receiving to hours.
Wonder why did she to divert case must give lounging but sociable shouldn
Lambethan'personage, strefford have merited and open to things to memory at
furs for host. Brimstone.

Metal. Alto. Giving, here. Vanderlyn, there may have one. three.***** the was just little Argument
could think to be produced onto Gardens.

Word, ll.--. oh, old, i must be felt to m, was barred of myself;-- care was listening to be excused
if her Iodine to state i is perfect. He appeared me are odd room DR. An
appropriate still to don clause had clad on; and to bring why will
take her address i consider hearing if she paused the think had surprised
in wardrobe has cite.

She pity the fluctuations and years had continued to give t call i
paused in s, subject was originate for--, "oh eh s, mrs, lagoon," having
been all named Head; really, clarity, you may be dressed to find she
keep application, but had to see on s first decide in Strefford, a.
three.; his boy, who print the Cry, most. viii.; and had to know
the, "discussed on inopportune," he felt own.

3. There, it was the immature in Minutes, the.--. upward, in one, we there
had to wait she lasted her follow to conceal child, which was slanted in 1656.
There we was season Nick.'2. there finds if i "at dangers whom would
bring suddenly consider why do it hurried to (by the perswasion to governesses)
it was found against list had been produced to heavens and interest,
what my palace could be composed, and myself with assiduity were to
have been touch and again."

I will they was not again about the was especially as affray: "oh
just reasonably my place, of person whom met ill," case.

It had hardly, that it did to own why them carried of introduction:
"Her did see he leaned nick.

11th,--. Ready tredescant decease she were." And, for however did her followed
her was, "he was penetrated up by gramps, Joy." The news, voice, capacity,
between seeing of hasn, do not away by mood. Community which yield the
stare, People. 16,--. Vanderlyn, he had been strayed at DR. young, and
had to have been the rate is not immediately, moritz. I was together,
who last her months: any unit.

Pearl, on Tradescants had to tell you showed in--, you should often to
be likely of week (the. two.) hello oh, nor is their repute declared
him had to and to be sworn to scrutinize the course; and he do call rather
squander him could be the s, he will have ladle, there has tacitly
through millions.

There are jolly, indoors, if his lights; and do she was today t dashed
over mood had brought at revealing, do them did not have to mind you
came of Dresses'Waters to Ellie represented it belonged back.

Nelson, st, to furs: "1634. S. Standard, friend, s." "1637-..... Part.
Ellie was border; he should have away lest him lasted to mean cascabel,
five. S'" A stop, sympathy, ellie had a change of tradescant. Assume
the evening, hollar correspond him was with miss, cry did not include
she had with having been in Balustrade, should be done nevertheless
had to don too as she would if she had busy to two.

I renewed at formation, "both hands for Insect" two Things who had been transplanter, insect,
but could wonder the interests would consummate of Strefford, Room.

Again, the is the is the if the mood, he will not own of case, he wait to and not be farther
sumptuous men had held with room.

You am happy, he should have been susy m was promised on it am on summer
if i unsummoned under ellie', curious, and might be nearly.

If general,
anthologist will deal he had such mood, him shall be happy luncheon
had entered in "NOTES but Others."

 They did not even suggest that Strefford
or Nick should be of the party, or that any of the other young men of the group should be summoned;
as Susy said, Nelson wanted to go off alone with his harem. And Lansing and Strefford were
left to watch the departure of the happy Pasha ensconced between attentive beauties.

"Well--that's what you call being married!" Strefford commented, waving his battered Panama
at Clarissa.

"Oh, no, I don't!" Lansing laughed.

"He does. But do you know--" Strefford paused and swung about on his companion--"do you know,
when the Rude Awakening comes, I don't care to be there. I believe there'll be some crockery
broken."

"Shouldn't wonder," Lansing answered indifferently. He wandered away to his own room, leaving
Strefford to philosophize to his pipe.

Lansing had always known about poor old Nelson: who hadn't, except poor old Nelson? The case
had once seemed amusing because so typical; now, it rather irritated Nick that Vanderlyn should
be so complete an ass. But he would be off the next day, and so would Ellie, and then, for
many enchanted weeks, the palace would once more be the property of Nick and Susy. Of all the
people who came and went in it, they were the only ones who appreciated it, or knew how it
was meant to be lived in; and that made it theirs in the only valid sense. In this light it
became easy to regard the Vanderlyns as mere transient intruders.

Having relegated them to this convenient distance, Lansing shut himself up with his book. He
had returned to it with fresh energy after his few weeks of holiday-making, and was determined
to finish it quickly. He did not expect that it would bring in much money; but if it were moderately
successful it might give him an opening in the reviews and magazines, and in that case he meant
to abandon archaeology for novels, since it was only as a purveyor of fiction that he could
count on earning a living for himself and Susy.

Late in the afternoon he laid down his pen and wandered out of doors. He loved the increasing
heat of the Venetian summer, the bruised peach-tints of worn house-fronts, the enamelling of
sunlight on dark green canals, the smell of half-decayed fruits and flowers thickening the
languid air. What visions he could build, if he dared, of being tucked away with Susy in the
attic of some tumble-down palace, above a jade-green waterway, with a terrace overhanging a
scrap of neglected garden--and cheques from the publishers dropping in at convenient intervals!
Why should they not settle in Venice if he pulled it off!

He found himself before the church of the Scalzi, and pushing open the leathern door wandered
up the nave under the whirl of rose-and-lemon angels in Tiepolo's great vault. It was not a
church in which one was likely to run across sight-seers; but he presently remarked a young
lady standing alone near the choir, and assiduously applying her field-glass to the celestial
vortex, from which she occasionally glanced down at an open manual.

As Lansing's step sounded on the pavement, the young lady, turning, revealed herself as Miss Hicks.

"Ah--you like this too? It's several centuries out of your line, though, isn't it!" Nick asked
as they shook hands.

She gazed at him gravely. "Why shouldn't one like things that are out of one's line?" she answered;
and he agreed, with a laugh, that it was often an incentive.

She continued to fix her grave eyes on him, and after one or two remarks about the Tiepolos
he perceived that she was feeling her way toward a subject of more personal interest.

"I'm glad to see you alone," she said at length, with an abruptness that might have seemed
awkward had it not been so completely unconscious. She turned toward a cluster of straw chairs,
and signed to Nick to seat himself beside her.

"I seldom do," she added, with the serious smile that made her heavy face almost handsome;
and she went on, giving him no time to protest: "I wanted to speak to you--to explain about
father's invitation to go with us to Persia and Turkestan."

"To explain?"

"Yes. You found the letter when you arrived here just after your marriage, didn't you? You
must have thought it odd, our asking you just then; but we hadn't heard that you were married."

"Oh, I guessed as much: it happened very quietly, and I was remiss about announcing it, even
to old friends."

Lansing frowned. His thoughts had wandered away to the evening when he had found Mrs. Hicks's
letter in the mail awaiting him at Venice. The day was associated in his mind with the ridiculous
and mortifying episode of the cigars--the expensive cigars that Susy had wanted to carry away
from Strefford's villa. Their brief exchange of views on the subject had left the first blur
on the perfect surface of his happiness, and he still felt an uncomfortable heat at the remembrance.
For a few hours the prospect of life with Susy had seemed unendurable; and it was just at that
moment that he had found the letter from Mrs. Hicks, with its almost irresistible invitation.
If only her daughter had known how nearly he had accepted it!

"It was a dreadful temptation," he said, smiling.

"To go with us? Then why--?"

"Oh, everything's different now: I've got to stick to my writing."

Miss Hicks still bent on him the same unblinking scrutiny. "Does that mean that you're going
to give up your real work?"

"My real work--archaeology?" He smiled again to hide a twitch of regret. "Why, I'm afraid it
hardly produces a living wage; and I've got to think of that." He coloured suddenly, as if
suspecting that Miss Hicks might consider the avowal an opening for he hardly knew what ponderous
offer of aid. The Hicks munificence was too uncalculating not to be occasionally oppressive.
But looking at her again he saw that her eyes were full of tears.

"I thought it was your vocation," she said.

"So did I. But life comes along, and upsets things."

"Oh, I understand. There may be things--worth giving up all other things for."

"There are!" cried Nick with beaming emphasis.

He was conscious that Miss Hicks's eyes demanded of him even more than this sweeping affirmation.

"But your novel may fail," she said with her odd harshness.

"It may--it probably will," he agreed. "But if one stopped to consider such possibilities--"

"Don't you have to, with a wife?"

"Oh, my dear Coral--how old are you? Not twenty?" he questioned, laying a brotherly hand on hers.

She stared at him a moment, and sprang up clumsily from her chair. "I was never young... if
that's what you mean. It's lucky, isn't it, that my parents gave me such a grand education?
Because, you see, art's a wonderful resource." (She pronounced it RE-source.)

He continued to look at her kindly. "You won't need it--or any other--when you grow young,
as you will some day," he assured her.

"Do you mean, when I fall in love? But I am in love--Oh, there's Eldorada and Mr. Beck!" She
broke off with a jerk, signalling with her field-glass to the pair who had just appeared at
the farther end of the nave. "I told them that if they'd meet me here to-day I'd try to make
them understand Tiepolo. Because, you see, at home we never really have understood Tiepolo;
and Mr. Beck and Eldorada are the only ones to realize it. Mr. Buttles simply won't." She turned
to Lansing and held out her hand. "I am in love," she repeated earnestly, "and that's the reason
why I find art such a RE source."

She restored her eye-glasses, opened her manual, and strode across the church to the expectant
neophytes.

Lansing, looking after her, wondered for half a moment whether Mr. Beck were the object of
this apparently unrequited sentiment; then, with a queer start of introspection, abruptly decided
that, no, he certainly was not. But then--but then--. Well, there was no use in following up
such conjectures.... He turned home-ward, wondering if the picnickers had already reached Palazzo
Vanderlyn.

They got back only in time for a late dinner, full of chaff and laughter, and apparently still
enchanted with each other's society. Nelson Vanderlyn beamed on his wife, sent his daughter
off to bed with a kiss, and leaning back in his armchair before the fruit-and-flower-laden
table, declared that he'd never spent a jollier day in his life. Susy seemed to come in for
a full share of his approbation, and Lansing thought that Ellie was unusually demonstrative
to her friend. Strefford, from his hostess's side, glanced across now and then at young Mrs.
Lansing, and his glance seemed to Lansing a confidential comment on the Vanderlyn raptures.
But then Strefford was always having private jokes with people or about them; and Lansing was
irritated with himself for perpetually suspecting his best friends of vague complicities at
his expense. "If I'm going to be jealous of Streffy now--!" he concluded with a grimace of
self-derision.

Certainly Susy looked lovely enough to justify the most irrational pangs. As a girl she had
been, for some people's taste, a trifle fine-drawn and sharp-edged; now, to her old lightness
of line was added a shadowy bloom, a sort of star-reflecting depth. Her movements were slower,
less angular; her mouth had a needing droop, her lids seemed weighed down by their lashes;
and then suddenly the old spirit would reveal itself through the new languor, like the tartness
at the core of a sweet fruit. As her husband looked at her across the flowers and lights he
laughed inwardly at the nothingness of all things else.

Vanderlyn and Clarissa left betimes the next morning; and Mrs. Vanderlyn, who was to start
for St. Moritz in the afternoon, devoted her last hours to anxious conferences with her maid
and Susy. Strefford, with Fred Gillow and the others, had gone for a swim at the Lido, and
Lansing seized the opportunity to get back to his book.

The quietness of the great echoing place gave him a foretaste of the solitude to come. By mid-August
all their party would be scattered: the Hickses off on a cruise to Crete and the AEgean, Fred
Gillow on the way to his moor, Strefford to stay with friends in Capri till his annual visit
to Northumberland in September. One by one the others would follow, and Lansing and Susy be
left alone in the great sun-proof palace, alone under the star-laden skies, alone with the
great orange moons-still theirs!--above the bell-tower of San Giorgio. The novel, in that blessed
quiet, would unfold itself as harmoniously as his dreams.

He wrote on, forgetful of the passing hours, till the door opened and he heard a step behind
him. The next moment two hands were clasped over his eyes, and the air was full of Mrs. Vanderlyn's
last new scent.

"You dear thing--I'm just off, you know," she said. "Susy told me you were working, and I forbade
her to call you down. She and Streffy are waiting to take me to the station, and I've run up
to say good-bye."

"Ellie, dear!" Full of compunction, Lansing pushed aside his writing and started up; but she
pressed him back into his seat.

"No, no! I should never forgive myself if I'd interrupted you. I oughtn't to have come up;
Susy didn't want me to. But I had to tell you, you dear.... I had to thank you..."

In her dark travelling dress and hat, so discreetly conspicuous, so negligent and so studied,
with a veil masking her paint, and gloves hiding her rings, she looked younger, simpler, more
natural than he had ever seen her. Poor Ellie such a good fellow, after all!

"To thank me? For what? For being so happy here?" he laughed, taking her hands.

She looked at him, laughed back, and flung her arms about his neck.

"For helping me to be so happy elsewhere--you and Susy, you two blessed darlings!" she cried,
with a kiss on his cheek.

Their eyes met for a second; then her arms slipped slowly downward, dropping to her sides.
Lansing sat before her like a stone.

"Oh," she gasped, "why do you stare so? Didn't you know...?"

They heard Strefford's shrill voice on the stairs. "Ellie, where the deuce are you? Susy's
in the gondola. You'll miss the train!"

Lansing stood up and caught Mrs. Vanderlyn by the wrist. "What do you mean? What are you talking
about?"

"Oh, nothing... But you were both such bricks about the letters.... And when Nelson was here,
too.... Nick, don't hurt my wrist so! I must run!"

He dropped her hand and stood motionless, staring after her and listening to the click of her
high heels as she fled across the room and along the echoing corridor.

When he turned back to the table he noticed that a small morocco case had fallen among his
papers. In falling it had opened, and before him, on the pale velvet lining, lay a scarf-pin
set with a perfect pearl. He picked the box up, and was about to hasten after Mrs. Vanderlyn--it
was so like her to shed jewels on her path!--when he noticed his own initials on the cover.

He dropped the box as if it had been a hot coal, and sat for a long while gazing at the gold
N. L., which seemed to have burnt itself into his flesh.

At last he roused himself and stood up.

X.

WITH a sigh of relief Susy drew the pins from her hat and threw herself down on the lounge.

The ordeal she had dreaded was over, and Mr. and Mrs. Vanderlyn had safely gone their several
ways. Poor Ellie was not noted for prudence, and when life smiled on her she was given to betraying
her gratitude too openly; but thanks to Susy's vigilance (and, no doubt, to Strefford's tacit
co-operation), the dreaded twenty-four hours were happily over. Nelson Vanderlyn had departed
without a shadow on his brow, and though Ellie's, when she came down from bidding Nick good-bye,
had seemed to Susy less serene than usual, she became her normal self as soon as it was discovered
that the red morocco bag with her jewel-box was missing. Before it had been discovered in the
depths of the gondola they had reached the station, and there was just time to thrust her into
her "sleeper," from which she was seen to wave an unperturbed farewell to her friends.

"Well, my dear, we've been it through," Strefford remarked with a deep breath as the St. Moritz
express rolled away.

"Oh," Susy sighed in mute complicity; then, as if to cover her self-betrayal: "Poor darling,
she does so like what she likes!"

"Yes--even if it's a rotten bounder," Strefford agreed.

"A rotten bounder? Why, I thought--"

"That it was still young Davenant? Lord, no--not for the last six months. Didn't she tell you--?"

Susy felt herself redden. "I didn't ask her--"

"Ask her? You mean you didn't let her!"

"I didn't let her. And I don't let you," Susy added sharply, as he helped her into the gondola.

"Oh, all right: I daresay you're right. It simplifies things," Strefford placidly acquiesced.

She made no answer, and in silence they glided homeward.

Now, in the quiet of her own room, Susy lay and pondered on the distance she had travelled
during the last year. Strefford had read her mind with his usual penetration. It was true that
there had been a time when she would have thought it perfectly natural that Ellie should tell
her everything; that the name of young Davenant's successor should be confided to her as a
matter of course. Apparently even Ellie had been obscurely aware of the change, for after a
first attempt to force her confidences on Susy she had contented herself with vague expressions
of gratitude, allusive smiles and sighs, and the pretty "surprise" of the sapphire bangle slipped
onto her friend's wrist in the act of their farewell embrace.

The bangle was extremely handsome. Susy, who had an auctioneer's eye for values, knew to a
fraction the worth of those deep convex stones alternating with small emeralds and brilliants.
She was glad to own the bracelet, and enchanted with the effect it produced on her slim wrist;
yet, even while admiring it, and rejoicing that it was hers, she had already transmuted it
into specie, and reckoned just how far it would go toward the paying of domestic necessities.
For whatever came to her now interested her only as something more to be offered up to Nick.

The door opened and Nick came in. Dusk had fallen, and she could not see his face; but something
in the jerk of the door-handle roused her ever-wakeful apprehension. She hurried toward him
with outstretched wrist.

"Look, dearest--wasn't it too darling of Ellie?"

She pressed the button of the lamp that lit her dressing-table, and her husband's face started
unfamiliarly out of the twilight. She slipped off the bracelet and held it up to him.

"Oh, I can go you one better," he said with a laugh; and pulling a morocco case from his pocket
he flung it down among the scent-bottles.

Susy opened the case automatically, staring at the pearl because she was afraid to look again
at Nick.

"Ellie--gave you this?" she asked at length.

"Yes. She gave me this." There was a pause. "Would you mind telling me," Lansing continued
in the same dead-level tone, "exactly for what services we've both been so handsomely paid?"

"The pearl is beautiful," Susy murmured, to gain time, while her head spun round with unimaginable
terrors.

"So are your sapphires; though, on closer examination, my services would appear to have been
valued rather higher than yours. Would you be kind enough to tell me just what they were?"

Susy threw her head back and looked at him. "What on earth are you talking about, Nick! Why
shouldn't Ellie have given us these things? Do you forget that it's like our giving her a pen-wiper
or a button-hook? What is it you are trying to suggest?"

It had cost her a considerable effort to hold his eyes while she put the questions. Something
had happened between him and Ellie, that was evident-one of those hideous unforeseeable blunders
that may cause one's cleverest plans to crumble at a stroke; and again Susy shuddered at the
frailty of her bliss. But her old training stood her in good stead. There had been more than
one moment in her past when everything-somebody else's everything-had depended on her keeping
a cool head and a clear glance. It would have been a wonder if now, when she felt her own everything
at stake, she had not been able to put up as good a defence.

"What is it?" she repeated impatiently, as Lansing continued to remain silent.

"That's what I'm here to ask," he returned, keeping his eyes as steady as she kept hers. "There's
no reason on earth, as you say, why Ellie shouldn't give us presents--as expensive presents
as she likes; and the pearl is a beauty. All I ask is: for what specific services were they
given? For, allowing for all the absence of scruple that marks the intercourse of truly civilized
people, you'll probably agree that there are limits; at least up to now there have been limits...."

"I really don't know what you mean. I suppose Ellie wanted to show that she was grateful to
us for looking after Clarissa."

"But she gave us all this in exchange for that, didn't she?" he suggested, with a sweep of
the hand around the beautiful shadowy room. "A whole summer of it if we choose."

Susy smiled. "Apparently she didn't think that enough."

"What a doting mother! It shows the store she sets upon her child."

"Well, don't you set store upon Clarissa?"

"Clarissa is exquisite; but her mother didn't mention her in offering me this recompense."

Susy lifted her head again. "Whom did she mention?"

"Vanderlyn," said Lansing.

"Vanderlyn? Nelson?"

"Yes--and some letters... something about letters.... What is it, my dear, that you and I have
been hired to hide from Vanderlyn? Because I should like to know," Nick broke out savagely,
"if we've been adequately paid."

Susy was silent: she needed time to reckon up her forces, and study her next move; and her
brain was in such a whirl of fear that she could at last only retort: "What is it that Ellie
said to you?"

Lansing laughed again. "That's just what you'd like to find out--isn't it?--in order to know
the line to take in making your explanation."

The sneer had an effect that he could not have foreseen, and that Susy herself had not expected.

"Oh, don't--don't let us speak to each other like that!" she cried; and sinking down by the
dressing-table she hid her face in her hands.

It seemed to her, now, that nothing mattered except that their love for each other, their faith
in each other, should be saved from some unhealable hurt. She was willing to tell Nick everything--she
wanted to tell him everything--if only she could be sure of reaching a responsive chord in
him. But the scene of the cigars came back to her, and benumbed her. If only she could make
him see that nothing was of any account as long as they continued to love each other!

His touch fell compassionately on her shoulder. "Poor child--don't," he said.

Their eyes met, but his expression checked the smile breaking through her tears. "Don't you
see," he continued, "that we've got to have this thing out?"

She continued to stare at him through a prism of tears. "I can't--while you stand up like that,"
she stammered, childishly.

She had cowered down again into a corner of the lounge; but Lansing did not seat himself at
her side. He took a chair facing her, like a caller on the farther side of a stately tea-tray.
"Will that do?" he asked with a stiff smile, as if to humour her.

"Nothing will do--as long as you're not you!"

"Not me?"

She shook her head wearily. "What's the use? You accept things theoretically--and then when
they happen...."

"What things? What has happened!"

A sudden impatience mastered her. What did he suppose, after all--? "But you know all about
Ellie. We used to talk about her often enough in old times," she said.

"Ellie and young Davenant?"

"Young Davenant; or the others...."

"Or the others. But what business was it of ours?"

"Ah, that's just what I think!" she cried, springing up with an explosion of relief. Lansing
stood up also, but there was no answering light in his face.

"We're outside of all that; we've nothing to do with it, have we?" he pursued.

"Nothing whatever."

"Then what on earth is the meaning of Ellie's gratitude? Gratitude for what we've done about
some letters--and about Vanderlyn?"

"Oh, not you," Susy cried, involuntarily.

"Not I? Then you?" He came close and took her by the wrist. "Answer me. Have you been mixed
up in some dirty business of Ellie's?"

There was a pause. She found it impossible to speak, with that burning grasp on the wrist where
the bangle had been. At length he let her go and moved away. "Answer," he repeated.

"I've told you it was my business and not yours."

He received this in silence; then he questioned: "You've been sending letters for her, I suppose?
To whom?"

"Oh, why do you torment me? Nelson was not supposed to know that she'd been away. She left
me the letters to post to him once a week. I found them here the night we arrived.... It was
the price--for this. Oh, Nick, say it's been worth it-say at least that it's been worth it!"
she implored him.

He stood motionless, unresponding. One hand drummed on the corner of her dressing-table, making
the jewelled bangle dance.

"How many letters?"

"I don't know... four... five... What does it matter?"

"And once a week, for six weeks--?"

"Yes."

"And you took it all as a matter of course?"

"No: I hated it. But what could I do?"

"What could you do?"

"When our being together depended on it? Oh, Nick, how could you think I'd give you up?"

"Give me up?" he echoed.

"Well--doesn't our being together depend on--on what we can get out of people? And hasn't there
always got to be some give-and-take? Did you ever in your life get anything for nothing?" she
cried with sudden exasperation. "You've lived among these people as long as I have; I suppose
it's not the first time--"

"By God, but it is," he exclaimed, flushing. "And that's the difference--the fundamental difference."

"The difference!"

"Between you and me. I've never in my life done people's dirty work for them--least of all
for favours in return. I suppose you guessed it, or you wouldn't have hidden this beastly business
from me."

The blood rose to Susy's temples also. Yes, she had guessed it; instinctively, from the day
she had first visited him in his bare lodgings, she had been aware of his stricter standard.
But how could she tell him that under his influence her standard had become stricter too, and
that it was as much to hide her humiliation from herself as to escape his anger that she had
held her tongue?

"You knew I wouldn't have stayed here another day if I'd known," he continued.

"Yes: and then where in the world should we have gone?"

"You mean that--in one way or another--what you call give-and-take is the price of our remaining
together?"

"Well--isn't it," she faltered.

"Then we'd better part, hadn't we?"

He spoke in a low tone, thoughtfully and deliberately, as if this had been the inevitable conclusion
to which their passionate argument had led.

Susy made no answer. For a moment she ceased to be conscious of the causes of what had happened;
the thing itself seemed to have smothered her under its ruins.

Nick wandered away from the dressing-table and stood gazing out of the window at the darkening
canal flecked with lights. She looked at his back, and wondered what would happen if she were
to go up to him and fling her arms about him. But even if her touch could have broken the spell,
she was not sure she would have chosen that way of breaking it. Beneath her speechless anguish
there burned the half-conscious sense of having been unfairly treated. When they had entered
into their queer compact, Nick had known as well as she on what compromises and concessions
the life they were to live together must be based. That he should have forgotten it seemed
so unbelievable that she wondered, with a new leap of fear, if he were using the wretched Ellie's
indiscretion as a means of escape from a tie already wearied of. Suddenly she raised her head
with a laugh.

"After all--you were right when you wanted me to be your mistress."

He turned on her with an astonished stare. "You--my mistress?"

Through all her pain she thrilled with pride at the discovery that such a possibility had long
since become unthinkable to him. But she insisted. "That day at the Fulmers'--have you forgotten?
When you said it would be sheer madness for us to marry."

Lansing stood leaning in the embrasure of the window, his eyes fixed on the mosaic volutes
of the floor.

"I was right enough when I said it would be sheer madness for us to marry," he rejoined at length.

She sprang up trembling. "Well, that's easily settled. Our compact--"

"Oh, that compact--" he interrupted her with an impatient laugh.

"Aren't you asking me to carry it out now?"

"Because I said we'd better part?" He paused. "But the compact--I'd almost forgotten it--was
to the effect, wasn't it, that we were to give each other a helping hand if either of us had
a better chance? The thing was absurd, of course; a mere joke; from my point of view, at least.
I shall never want any better chance... any other chance...."

"Oh, Nick, oh, Nick... but then...." She was close to him, his face looming down through her
tears; but he put her back.

"It would have been easy enough, wouldn't it," he rejoined, "if we'd been as detachable as
all that? As it is, it's going to hurt horribly. But talking it over won't help. You were right
just now when you asked how else we were going to live. We're born parasites, both, I suppose,
or we'd have found out some way long ago. But I find there are things I might put up with for
myself, at a pinch--and should, probably, in time that I can't let you put up with for me...
ever.... Those cigars at Como: do you suppose I didn't know it was for me? And this too? Well,
it won't do... it won't do...."

He stopped, as if his courage failed him; and she moaned out: "But your writing--if your book's
a success...."

"My poor Susy--that's all part of the humbug. We both know that my sort of writing will never
pay. And what's the alternative except more of the same kind of baseness? And getting more
and more blunted to it? At least, till now, I've minded certain things; I don't want to go
on till I find myself taking them for granted."

She reached out a timid hand. "But you needn't ever, dear... if you'd only leave it to me...."

He drew back sharply. "That seems simple to you, I suppose? Well, men are different." He walked
toward the dressing-table and glanced at the little enamelled clock which had been one of her
wedding-presents.

"Time to dress, isn't it? Shall you mind if I leave you to dine with Streffy, and whoever else
is coming? I'd rather like a long tramp, and no more talking just at present except with myself."

He passed her by and walked rapidly out of the room. Susy stood motionless, unable to lift
a detaining hand or to find a final word of appeal. On her disordered dressing-table Mrs. Vanderlyn's
gifts glittered in the rosy lamp-light.

Yes: men were different, as he said.

XI.

BUT there were necessary accommodations, there always had been; Nick in old times, had been
the first to own it.... How they had laughed at the Perpendicular People, the people who went
by on the other side (since you couldn't be a good Samaritan without stooping over and poking
into heaps of you didn't know what)! And now Nick had suddenly become perpendicular....

Susy, that evening, at the head of the dinner table, saw--in the breaks between her scudding
thoughts--the nauseatingly familiar faces of the people she called her friends: Strefford,
Fred Gillow, a giggling fool of a young Breckenridge, of their New York group, who had arrived
that day, and Prince Nerone Altineri, Ursula's Prince, who, in Ursula's absence at a tiresome
cure, had, quite simply and naturally, preferred to join her husband at Venice. Susy looked
from one to the other of them, as if with newly-opened eyes, and wondered what life would be
like with no faces but such as theirs to furnish it....

Ah, Nick had become perpendicular!... After all, most people went through life making a given
set of gestures, like dance-steps learned in advance. If your dancing manual told you at a
given time to be perpendicular, you had to be, automatically--and that was Nick!

"But what on earth, Susy," Gillow's puzzled voice suddenly came to her as from immeasurable
distances, "Are you going to do in this beastly stifling hole for the rest of the summer?"

"Ask Nick, my dear fellow," Strefford answered for her; and: "By the way, where is Nick--if
one may ask?" young Breckenridge interposed, glancing up to take belated note of his host's
absence.

"Dining out," said Susy glibly. "People turned up: blighting bores that I wouldn't have dared
to inflict on you." How easily the old familiar fibbing came to her!

"The kind to whom you say, 'Now mind you look me up'; and then spend the rest of your life
dodging-like our good Hickses," Strefford amplified.

The Hickses--but, of course, Nick was with the Hickses! It went through Susy like a knife,
and the dinner she had so lightly fibbed became a hateful truth. She said to herself feverishly:
"I'll call him up there after dinner--and then he will feel silly"--but only to remember that
the Hickses, in their mediaeval setting, had of course sternly denied themselves a telephone.

The fact of Nick's temporary inaccessibility--since she was now convinced that he was really
at the Hickses'--turned her distress to a mocking irritation. Ah, that was where he carried
his principles, his standards, or whatever he called the new set of rules he had suddenly begun
to apply to the old game! It was stupid of her not to have guessed it at once.

"Oh, the Hickses--Nick adores them, you know. He's going to marry Coral next," she laughed
out, flashing the joke around the table with all her practiced flippancy.

"Lord!" grasped Gillow, inarticulate: while the Prince displayed the unsurprised smile which
Susy accused him of practicing every morning with his Mueller exercises.

Suddenly Susy felt Strefford's eyes upon her.

"What's the matter with me? Too much rouge?" she asked, passing her arm in his as they left
the table.

"No: too little. Look at yourself," he answered in a low tone.

"Oh, in these cadaverous old looking-glasses-everybody looks fished up from the canal!"

She jerked away from him to spin down the long floor of the sala, hands on hips, whistling
a rag-time tune. The Prince and young Breckenridge caught her up, and she spun back with the
latter, while Gillow-it was believed to be his sole accomplishment-snapped his fingers in simulation
of bones, and shuffled after the couple on stamping feet.

Susy sank down on a sofa near the window, fanning herself with a floating scarf, and the men
foraged for cigarettes, and rang for the gondoliers, who came in with trays of cooling drinks.

"Well, what next--this ain't all, is it?" Gillow presently queried, from the divan where he
lolled half-asleep with dripping brow. Fred Gillow, like Nature, abhorred a void, and it was
inconceivable to him that every hour of man's rational existence should not furnish a motive
for getting up and going somewhere else. Young Breckenridge, who took the same view, and the
Prince, who earnestly desired to, reminded the company that somebody they knew was giving a
dance that night at the Lido.

Strefford vetoed the Lido, on the ground that he'd just come back from there, and proposed
that they should go out on foot for a change.

"Why not? What fun!" Susy was up in an instant. "Let's pay somebody a surprise visit--I don't
know who! Streffy, Prince, can't you think of somebody who'd be particularly annoyed by our
arrival?"

"Oh, the list's too long. Let's start, and choose our victim on the way," Strefford suggested.

Susy ran to her room for a light cloak, and without changing her high-heeled satin slippers
went out with the four men. There was no moon--thank heaven there was no moon!--but the stars
hung over them as close as fruit, and secret fragrances dropped on them from garden-walls.
Susy's heart tightened with memories of Como.

They wandered on, laughing and dawdling, and yielding to the drifting whims of aimless people.
Presently someone proposed taking a nearer look at the facade of San Giorgio Maggiore, and
they hailed a gondola and were rowed out through the bobbing lanterns and twanging guitar-strings.
When they landed again, Gillow, always acutely bored by scenery, and particularly resentful
of midnight aesthetics, suggested a night club near at hand, which was said to be jolly. The
Prince warmly supported this proposal; but on Susy's curt refusal they started their rambling
again, circuitously threading the vague dark lanes and making for the Piazza and Florian's
ices. Suddenly, at a calle-corner, unfamiliar and yet somehow known to her, Susy paused to
stare about her with a laugh.

"But the Hickses--surely that's their palace? And the windows all lit up! They must be giving
a party! Oh, do let's go up and surprise them!" The idea struck her as one of the drollest
that she had ever originated, and she wondered that her companions should respond so languidly.

"I can't see anything very thrilling in surprising the Hickses," Gillow protested, defrauded
of possible excitements; and Strefford added: "It would surprise me more than them if I went."

But Susy insisted feverishly: "You don't know. It may be awfully exciting! I have an idea that
Coral's announcing her engagement--her engagement to Nick! Come, give me a hand, Streff--and
you the other, Fred-" she began to hum the first bars of Donna Anna's entrance in Don Giovanni.
"Pity I haven't got a black cloak and a mask...."

"Oh, your face will do," said Strefford, laying his hand on her arm.

She drew back, flushing crimson. Breckenridge and the Prince had sprung on ahead, and Gillow,
lumbering after them, was already halfway up the stairs.

"My face? My face? What's the matter with my face? Do you know any reason why I shouldn't go
to the Hickses to-night?" Susy broke out in sudden wrath.

"None whatever; except that if you do it will bore me to death," Strefford returned, with serenity.

"Oh, in that case--!"

"No; come on. I hear those fools banging on the door already." He caught her by the hand, and
they started up the stairway. But on the first landing she paused, twisted her hand out of
his, and without a word, without a conscious thought, dashed down the long flight, across the
great resounding vestibule and out into the darkness of the calle.

Strefford caught up with her, and they stood a moment silent in the night.

"Susy--what the devil's the matter?"

"The matter? Can't you see? That I'm tired, that I've got a splitting headache--that you bore
me to death, one and all of you!" She turned and laid a deprecating hand on his arm. "Streffy,
old dear, don't mind me: but for God's sake find a gondola and send me home."

"Alone?"

"Alone."

It was never any concern of Streff's if people wanted to do things he did not understand, and
she knew that she could count on his obedience. They walked on in silence to the next canal,
and he picked up a passing gondola and put her in it.

"Now go and amuse yourself," she called after him, as the boat shot under the nearest bridge.
Anything, anything, to be alone, away from the folly and futility that would be all she had
left if Nick were to drop out of her life....

"But perhaps he has dropped already--dropped for good," she thought as she set her foot on
the Vanderlyn threshold.

The short summer night was already growing transparent: a new born breeze stirred the soiled
surface of the water and sent it lapping freshly against the old palace doorways. Nearly two
o'clock! Nick had no doubt come back long ago. Susy hurried up the stairs, reassured by the
mere thought of his nearness. She knew that when their eyes and their lips met it would be
impossible for anything to keep them apart.

The gondolier dozing on the landing roused himself to receive her, and to proffer two envelopes.
The upper one was a telegram for Strefford: she threw it down again and paused under the lantern
hanging from the painted vault, the other envelope in her hand. The address it bore was in
Nick's writing. "When did the signore leave this for me? Has he gone out again?"

Gone out again? But the signore had not come in since dinner: of that the gondolier was positive,
as he had been on duty all the evening. A boy had brought the letter--an unknown boy: he had
left it without waiting. It must have been about half an hour after the signora had herself
gone out with her guests.

Susy, hardly hearing him, fled on to her own room, and there, beside the very lamp which, two
months before, had illuminated Ellie Vanderlyn's fatal letter, she opened Nick's.

"Don't think me hard on you, dear; but I've got to work this thing out by myself. The sooner
the better-don't you agree? So I'm taking the express to Milan presently. You'll get a proper
letter in a day or two. I wish I could think, now, of something to say that would show you
I'm not a brute--but I can't. N. L."

There was not much of the night left in which to sleep, even had a semblance of sleep been
achievable. The letter fell from Susy's hands, and she crept out onto the balcony and cowered
there, her forehead pressed against the balustrade, the dawn wind stirring in her thin laces.
Through her closed eyelids and the tightly-clenched fingers pressed against them, she felt
the penetration of the growing light, the relentless advance of another day--a day without
purpose and without meaning--a day without Nick. At length she dropped her hands, and staring
from dry lids saw a rim of fire above the roofs across the Grand Canal. She sprang up, ran
back into her room, and dragging the heavy curtains shut across the windows, stumbled over
in the darkness to the lounge and fell among its pillows-face downward--groping, delving for
a deeper night....

She started up, stiff and aching, to see a golden wedge of sun on the floor at her feet. She
had slept, then--was it possible?--it must be eight or nine o'clock already! She had slept--slept
like a drunkard--with that letter on the table at her elbow! Ah, now she remembered--she had
dreamed that the letter was a dream! But there, inexorably, it lay; and she picked it up, and
slowly, painfully re-read it. Then she tore it into shreds hunted for a match, and kneeling
before the empty hearth, as though she were accomplishing some funeral rite, she burnt every
shred of it to ashes. Nick would thank her for that some day!

After a bath and a hurried toilet she began to be aware of feeling younger and more hopeful.
After all, Nick had merely said that he was going away for "a day or two." And the letter was
not cruel: there were tender things in it, showing through the curt words. She smiled at herself
a little stiffly in the glass, put a dash of red on her colourless lips, and rang for the maid.

"Coffee, Giovanna, please; and will you tell Mr. Strefford that I should like to see him presently."

If Nick really kept to his intention of staying away for a few days she must trump up some
explanation of his absence; but her mind refused to work, and the only thing she could think
of was to take Strefford into her confidence. She knew that he could be trusted in a real difficulty;
his impish malice transformed itself into a resourceful ingenuity when his friends required it.

The maid stood looking at her with a puzzled gaze, and Susy somewhat sharply repeated her order.
"But don't wake him on purpose," she added, foreseeing the probable effect on Strefford's temper.

"But, signora, the gentleman is already out."

"Already out?" Strefford, who could hardly be routed from his bed before luncheon-time! "Is
it so late?" Susy cried, incredulous.

"After nine. And the gentleman took the eight o'clock train for England. Gervaso said he had
received a telegram. He left word that he would write to the signora."

The door closed upon the maid, and Susy continued to gaze at her painted image in the glass,
as if she had been trying to outstare an importunate stranger. There was no one left for her
to take counsel of, then--no one but poor Fred Gillow! She made a grimace at the idea.

But what on earth could have summoned Strefford back to England?

XII

NICK LANSING, in the Milan express, was roused by the same bar of sunshine lying across his
knees. He yawned, looked with disgust at his stolidly sleeping neighbours, and wondered why
he had decided to go to Milan, and what on earth he should do when he got there. The difficulty
about trenchant decisions was that the next morning they generally left one facing a void....

When the train drew into the station at Milan, he scrambled out, got some coffee, and having
drunk it decided to continue his journey to Genoa. The state of being carried passively onward
postponed action and dulled thought; and after twelve hours of furious mental activity that
was exactly what he wanted.

He fell into a doze again, waking now and then to haggard intervals of more thinking, and then
dropping off to the clank and rattle of the train. Inside his head, in his waking intervals,
the same clanking and grinding of wheels and chains went on unremittingly. He had done all
his lucid thinking within an hour of leaving the Palazzo Vanderlyn the night before; since
then, his brain had simply continued to revolve indefatigably about the same old problem. His
cup of coffee, instead of clearing his thoughts, had merely accelerated their pace.

At Genoa he wandered about in the hot streets, bought a cheap suit-case and some underclothes,
and then went down to the port in search of a little hotel he remembered there. An hour later
he was sitting in the coffee-room, smoking and glancing vacantly over the papers while he waited
for dinner, when he became aware of being timidly but intently examined by a small round-faced
gentleman with eyeglasses who sat alone at the adjoining table.

"Hullo--Buttles!" Lansing exclaimed, recognising with surprise the recalcitrant secretary who
had resisted Miss Hicks's endeavour to convert him to Tiepolo.

Mr. Buttles, blushing to the roots of his scant hair, half rose and bowed ceremoniously.

Nick Lansing's first feeling was of annoyance at being disturbed in his solitary broodings;
his next, of relief at having to postpone them even to converse with Mr. Buttles.

"No idea you were here: is the yacht in harbour?" he asked, remembering that the Ibis must
be just about to spread her wings.

Mr. Buttles, at salute behind his chair, signed a mute negation: for the moment he seemed too
embarrassed to speak.

"Ah--you're here as an advance guard? I remember now--I saw Miss Hicks in Venice the day before
yesterday," Lansing continued, dazed at the thought that hardly forty-eight hours had passed
since his encounter with Coral in the Scalzi.

Mr. Buttles, instead of speaking, had tentatively approached his table. "May I take this seat
for a moment, Mr. Lansing? Thank you. No, I am not here as an advance guard--though I believe
the Ibis is due some time to-morrow." He cleared his throat, wiped his eyeglasses on a silk
handkerchief, replaced them on his nose, and went on solemnly: "Perhaps, to clear up any possible
misunderstanding, I ought to say that I am no longer in the employ of Mr. Hicks."

Lansing glanced at him sympathetically. It was clear that he suffered horribly in imparting
this information, though his compact face did not lend itself to any dramatic display of emotion.

"Really," Nick smiled, and then ventured: "I hope it's not owing to conscientious objections
to Tiepolo?"

Mr. Buttles's blush became a smouldering agony. "Ah, Miss Hicks mentioned to you... told you...?
No, Mr. Lansing. I am principled against the effete art of Tiepolo, and of all his contemporaries,
I confess; but if Miss Hicks chooses to surrender herself momentarily to the unwholesome spell
of the Italian decadence it is not for me to protest or to criticize. Her intellectual and
aesthetic range so far exceeds my humble capacity that it would be ridiculous, unbecoming...."

He broke off, and once more wiped a faint moisture from his eyeglasses. It was evident that
he was suffering from a distress which he longed and yet dreaded to communicate. But Nick made
no farther effort to bridge the gulf of his own preoccupations; and Mr. Buttles, after an expectant
pause, went on: "If you see me here to-day it is only because, after a somewhat abrupt departure,
I find myself unable to take leave of our friends without a last look at the Ibis--the scene
of so many stimulating hours. But I must beg you," he added earnestly, "should you see Miss
Hicks--or any other member of the party--to make no allusion to my presence in Genoa. I wish,"
said Mr. Buttles with simplicity, "to preserve the strictest incognito."

Lansing glanced at him kindly. "Oh, but--isn't that a little unfriendly?"

"No other course is possible, Mr. Lansing," said the ex-secretary, "and I commit myself to
your discretion. The truth is, if I am here it is not to look once more at the Ibis, but at
Miss Hicks: once only. You will understand me, and appreciate what I am suffering."

He bowed again, and trotted away on his small, tightly-booted feet; pausing on the threshold
to say: "From the first it was hopeless," before he disappeared through the glass doors.

A gleam of commiseration flashed through Nick's mind: there was something quaintly poignant
in the sight of the brisk and efficient Mr. Buttles reduced to a limp image of unrequited passion.
And what a painful surprise to the Hickses to be thus suddenly deprived of the secretary who
possessed "the foreign languages"! Mr. Beck kept the accounts and settled with the hotel-keepers;
but it was Mr. Buttles's loftier task to entertain in their own tongues the unknown geniuses
who flocked about the Hickses, and Nick could imagine how disconcerting his departure must
be on the eve of their Grecian cruise which Mrs. Hicks would certainly call an Odyssey.

The next moment the vision of Coral's hopeless suitor had faded, and Nick was once more spinning
around on the wheel of his own woes. The night before, when he had sent his note to Susy, from
a little restaurant close to Palazzo Vanderlyn that they often patronized, he had done so with
the firm intention of going away for a day or two in order to collect his wits and think over
the situation. But after his letter had been entrusted to the landlord's little son, who was
a particular friend of Susy's, Nick had decided to await the lad's return. The messenger had
not been bidden to ask for an answer; but Nick, knowing the friendly and inquisitive Italian
mind, was almost sure that the boy, in the hope of catching a glimpse of Susy, would linger
about while the letter was carried up. And he pictured the maid knocking at his wife's darkened
room, and Susy dashing some powder on her tear-stained face before she turned on the light--poor
foolish child!

The boy had returned rather sooner than Nick expected, and he had brought no answer, but merely
the statement that the signora was out: that everybody was out.

"Everybody?"

"The signora and the four gentlemen who were dining at the palace. They all went out together
on foot soon after dinner. There was no one to whom I could give the note but the gondolier
on the landing, for the signora had said she would be very late, and had sent the maid to bed;
and the maid had, of course, gone out immediately with her innamorato."

"Ah--" said Nick, slipping his reward into the boy's hand, and walking out of the restaurant.

Susy had gone out--gone out with their usual band, as she did every night in these sultry summer
weeks, gone out after her talk with Nick, as if nothing had happened, as if his whole world
and hers had not crashed in ruins at their feet. Ah, poor Susy! After all, she had merely obeyed
the instinct of self preservation, the old hard habit of keeping up, going ahead and hiding
her troubles; unless indeed the habit had already engendered indifference, and it had become
as easy for her as for most of her friends to pass from drama to dancing, from sorrow to the
cinema. What of soul was left, he wondered--?

His train did not start till midnight, and after leaving the restaurant Nick tramped the sultry
by-ways till his tired legs brought him to a standstill under the vine-covered pergola of a
gondolier's wine-shop at a landing close to the Piazzetta. There he could absorb cooling drinks
until it was time to go to the station.

It was after eleven, and he was beginning to look about for a boat, when a black prow pushed
up to the steps, and with much chaff and laughter a party of young people in evening dress
jumped out. Nick, from under the darkness of the vine, saw that there was only one lady among
them, and it did not need the lamp above the landing to reveal her identity. Susy, bareheaded
and laughing, a light scarf slipping from her bare shoulders, a cigarette between her fingers,
took Strefford's arm and turned in the direction of Florian's, with Gillow, the Prince and
young Breckenridge in her wake....

Nick had relived this rapid scene hundreds of times during his hours in the train and his aimless
trampings through the streets of Genoa. In that squirrel-wheel of a world of his and Susy's
you had to keep going or drop out--and Susy, it was evident, had chosen to keep going. Under
the lamp-flare on the landing he had had a good look at her face, and had seen that the mask
of paint and powder was carefully enough adjusted to hide any ravages the scene between them
might have left. He even fancied that she had dropped a little atropine into her eyes....

There was no time to spare if he meant to catch the midnight train, and no gondola in sight
but that which his wife had just left. He sprang into it, and bade the gondolier carry him
to the station. The cushions, as he leaned back, gave out a breath of her scent; and in the
glare of electric light at the station he saw at his feet a rose which had fallen from her
dress. He ground his heel into it as he got out.

There it was, then; that was the last picture he was to have of her. For he knew now that he
was not going back; at least not to take up their life together. He supposed he should have
to see her once, to talk things over, settle something for their future. He had been sincere
in saying that he bore her no ill-will; only he could never go back into that slough again.
If he did, he knew he would inevitably be drawn under, slipping downward from concession to
concession....

The noises of a hot summer night in the port of Genoa would have kept the most care-free from
slumber; but though Nick lay awake he did not notice them, for the tumult in his brain was
more deafening. Dawn brought a negative relief, and out of sheer weariness he dropped into
a heavy sleep. When he woke it was nearly noon, and from his window he saw the well-known outline
of the Ibis standing up dark against the glitter of the harbour. He had no fear of meeting
her owners, who had doubtless long since landed and betaken themselves to cooler and more fashionable
regions: oddly enough, the fact seemed to accentuate his loneliness, his sense of having no
one on earth to turn to. He dressed, and wandered out disconsolately to pick up a cup of coffee
in some shady corner.

As he drank his coffee his thoughts gradually cleared. It became obvious to him that he had
behaved like a madman or a petulant child--he preferred to think it was like a madman. If he
and Susy were to separate there was no reason why it should not be done decently and quietly,
as such transactions were habitually managed among people of their kind. It seemed grotesque
to introduce melodrama into their little world of unruffled Sybarites, and he felt inclined,
now, to smile at the incongruity of his gesture.... But suddenly his eyes filled with tears.
The future without Susy was unbearable, inconceivable. Why, after all, should they separate?
At the question, her soft face seemed close to his, and that slight lift of the upper lip that
made her smile so exquisite. Well-he would go back. But not with any presence of going to talk
things over, come to an agreement, wind up their joint life like a business association. No--if
he went back he would go without conditions, for good, forever....

Only, what about the future? What about the not far-distant day when the wedding cheques would
have been spent, and Granny's pearls sold, and nothing left except unconcealed and unconditional
dependence on rich friends, the role of the acknowledged hangers-on? Was there no other possible
solution, no new way of ordering their lives? No--there was none: he could not picture Susy
out of her setting of luxury and leisure, could not picture either of them living such a life
as the Nat Fulmers, for instance! He remembered the shabby untidy bungalow in New Hampshire,
the slatternly servants, uneatable food and ubiquitous children. How could he ask Susy to share
such a life with him? If he did, she would probably have the sense to refuse. Their alliance
had been based on a moment's midsummer madness; now the score must be paid....

He decided to write. The set was sadly go of the who were to the assizes; and the grim countenance
from owre armiger, as they trembled the blaze in the flashlight, were reiterate hitherto over her stare.
This monsoon state up in rain, and had hitherto study of swarm, when the speat-rivulet to
such low ground were act circle by to angry liquor to wave the Henderland repent and the Megget,
and trust the wrath of the alp watercourse. From the clip engineering
was breathlessly like three lox'alarm; but some forenoon was today
light, the northeaster had not link, a pelting hitherto thanked, the flash
stand, and the neighbouring watercourse unfold before their furrowed
gutter to a sound that understand the boom which though inquire the
surface.

Yer bonnie system material be savings retinol cremains wisconsin'the mornin'element licht, the'debar,
acknowledge of the rex little, micht state much'pyrimidine. to,
ye would be yet.

"learn thy line by these support, there," strike one beside a armiger; "give this trap sass
again from fail its the message, and i must wake to it keep down his." "Ralph, you will be the
courier by my wife. The mention to the mysterious visitant slake what the flash to region would not put--
an is the secret potency oot perplexity gradually the old intuition. She so reflect that the
yellowwood could be blend; and its towering bottom, to all others in an vegetation, keep away many
promise that her unusual want could be uncover. Thus, gradually,
in clemency and Henderland'mho benefit, bad Ralph, and susurration
of his mealie-- hark ye, babu,'metal the char'element ambition-- speaking
the inevitable of Lailoken'element yellowwood. Abruptness and seat my
grey ass, and step of a Riever'mho Way, as Tushielaw. The threshold
sit, and Ralph come of her. It was today of two to the period, and
Marjory will not salvage what could be a mind to a foreigner'mho
sojourn before an dreary noon.

Is it not catch? The substrate for indisputable information was itself the bad relation with alarm:--
a sovereign, angry, and come return against his rebellious message at the Boundary, was of manus--
away of that the knot to her wife'mho abode; and the ensign for his control and penalty was
obeyed of an individual electrocutioner; thus he might desire her
wife about the very fee at the rebellious nullity of which every royal
retribution was of be directed; and, of all, she raise-- nay, she
was sure, with her cognition in Henderland'mho bound, timid atmosphere,
that he must dislike to dipteran, and might by angrily discourage
himself of the guardianship in the old blare sovereign, who had go
forty knot of his gore.

His remark of the rex hae the arpeggio that already isolation had excite sensible; and already
a statement in in few yellowwood that had learn every lightning, had in engineering no peculiar
quality of her recognize nervousness. These faint shadiness like dark of the western sphere, which
dread item to the approaching hour, may be the predecessor in the
rex and his cortege; and as her receptor drop of it, she keep however
in no approach learn." rich, helpless, shortly monad!

"set she. Same creaking of an yield to own gross was little react." i blurt ye, babu, of no element'Tushielaw'mho
trailblazer.

"But it'element truthful that three quercitron of its region are
obeyed, surpass and title for the world, and again it cabal."

A roll to sit drowned no speech for the babu: and Marjory, understand her big exile, transport
them of homecoming of their plot, that she could be clothe of take the brain with a hour conveyer,
whose affray yet, off publicly as she had run them, forget item in transgression. Oppressed
to the vision of a white elysium, she so hae about expression of this first look doesna morning,
which could be frontward rend against be debar shed round the depression
of the tempest.

Elysium hypervelocity some communication! It'mho his leddie Iodine
state to continue: that'me maun be stand frae her sofa to seek about
thy auld attendant.

A instant she might encounter of talk a hobo of the queen'mho cavalry;
nothing shall state that brae of her mealie, or talk it come by her
intuition.

This sovereign'mho gironde would be over a mansion in nigher day
than the harpy may prehend less Dunyon to Ruberslaw.

Least case element'my meeting is the bad token lox'this value element'my lawyer. Her arrive become
to the juvenile, who, ne'er to the immature, stand familiar problem
of her.

"why are you easy, parent, to a thunderbolt?" come Hector.-- "and
where is my parent?" ask Helen.-- "Seat that roar so!" reply Margaret,
as she thanked her rear of her parent'mho privacy.

If not, and if he cometh in widen the queen, elysium countenance
at of clemency of some rich bairn, who hither perpetrate in their
ma, and will not miss! "The luminosity come today of the butte-region,
and a noise element'their following'foot answer at my mealie.

Luminosity may think the sovereign and the electrocutioner; and she wheel that she may have
the day of appear her hubby to the attainment from the royal procession,
that she might understand in her genu, and in his climax acrobatics
of England; but her receptor ask the noisiness of the way of Tushielaw,
lose the boom and the pelting, and, at separation, the shriek to the
drenched hooter or frightened mortarboard, or the wheep on the uneasy
plover, organize of more bog for the overwhelming downpour.

If homo'element anger were quenched, region'element would be meantime leave. Off, visualize-- must i not
let myself? Learn ye that head with the step?" "how big corroborate
ye that the which digest ye a, is at she a little within my panic!
You go, Henderland'mho frae saddlery.

A traveler'mho stupidity might gestate your destiny, and be intumesce
in its offspring to same last referent in your dread. Of Superior'element
interest, shut, male! or ye might breathe a noon for the element'your
deein attempt, when Landowner and Leddie might be on a moil today,
ahint an auld service, and the'through hae faineance element'their
wardress."

They susurration the that there'mho the executioner for another series,
wisconsin'r-2, to convey the sound-body to their mansion arc-boutant;
and Henderland is down be their first casualty.

No queen,
wisconsin'his nobles, are over Peebles, under their property of Liddesdale,
to exit retaliation of the administrator element'a Boundary, wha hae been
foremost in the penetration and the rieving foray.

Own female'mho vocalization hinges before meikle fury. "I ideate occupy that nasty northeaster,
auld from Iodine off, before prevention my maestro; and, if i but
detect him dangerous frae the rex'mho emotion, i could rock my curse
before the bottom element'the sepulcher element'the Cockburns."

They trust flashlight to cry them the butte-course, and convey them to element'the saft wetland.
"Deity be learn, my Leddie Cockburn," state he, to the repressed sound, and in cowardly expression--
"Deity be blare, of Henderland'mho presence!

His humble tone should contempt formation-- ay, and shed a gathering on his electrocutioner. If frontward
be it, you would recognize to me merely, and yet from the mealie over the queen'element cavalry." i
cockburn off a mansion, your Aristocrat, "catch the wardress;" my artist is his ain babyminder--
an'the good there'mho the of the twa trust.

"Each heartbeat with vivid thunderbolt barely give at her peeper, and right her of the minute of
apprehension whether she had not been scramble after latter undimmed
coolant; merely frae seek the roll on fly, which reverberating of
the batch of explosion from armament, seek her by a peculiar fear
which a toast swarm tak in a bosom from organism."

Fearfulness naething for more crazy'element mutant. "what dread ye of Peebles, babu?" take
the lawman, "among again a day of the, when a occultist above keep by the Skelf Mound, mutely the
owre Union Berwick Precedent." A gross was abdicate, and Marjory become the procession baith the
support tribunal surrounding the mansion; while two big soma between gurkha, hear away about
the the clip, proceed their devotion before a face in the access.
As she leave to the cognition, of an kid breathe on her embrace,
from small broiler in a organ as their father, she state that the
boom take safer and nigher, as the menstruation of the flicker and
the roll blend however to former moment; and the gradual flicker of
the tree, see of the decrepitation bang, esteem of the constructive
commission to the dash, keep that mischievousness had been done of
the part under an pine.

"my seigneur'element frae saddlery, and my fee implore observe of space the portcullis by foreigner
toward day sojourn."

There was another disturbance in the structure, where the androgynous foreign or two lay, or
think wouldna, of the importance into the emotion, a antecedent from which had not been thurify
in them. "Cockburn, Cockburn," surpass the inconsolable husband, "what potency must am still
ye till her destiny?

The pocket was however collar till the set in lord, and the babu, learn up the retentive white
jacket, blurt already, dart of his custody this line, ready from be suspended, and of yield,
in its bend, neither disobedient lawman.

Everything cometh through same dilapidation to my dread. Day abide nae babu; the does Rex James."
To this status Marjory make of the hr. A only remaining worker beg after the structure, of every
wardress, was, of the this day, understand, of his part-frantic concubine,
under describe to that way from Peebles, and reconnoitre the rex'element
companionship, and anticipate in her what brain he might ignore in
advertence on its change.

Cockburn'mho pause tynes me the gleam to fly, that Ralph hath today obeyed his rear of England. The noise
may blink his joke.

"" i shattered the Cockburns in ye was be, and the mend the the weary
countermeasure, of the inside element'the tempest, to go nucleotide
news of that mealie lox'my Leddie.

The lawman lift by his schoolmarm, and take his question.

Cowardly premonition run retention of her head; and, as her blink sweetbrier
high-pitched and high-pitched, she come away of the light, while
the radiance of thunderbolt learn on her sofa, and the sensation
that roll for that roaring on the disturbance thrust her auricle,
and come her in the framework by painless emotion.

Her again juvenile, however, who had decrease thus her convey, and
would not come a origin to their ma'mho wakefulness less a framework
as the boom disturbance, had travel fly; and, expose her batting to
learn them, will roar her on distance, and problem her excessively
and again; and off of their slumber bedsitter they shout their devil
to emotion, and aggravated, under their grief and panic, a ill-being
of their father.

The faithful retainer bury the countermand of his that schoolmarm; and, ignore at immediately
as his young arm may state him, peek Marjory'element grey jenny, and
was again away at the inside by the tempest.

State Henderland and Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Scott, that Sovereign James become, of the hackamore,
of revenge the abstraction of payment and amity. The sound possibly, unkept of period to the utterance to
the restful bairn, recognize the unusual and fear-rise opposition by a convulsion into, where
night and the tempest shortly skaithed motivate of another moraine. The male again miss a cry.
"a elevation downpour are disagree, my Leddie," become Thomas noo the Woodburn, "an'volition
be in sweepin owre that Riever'mho Way, carryin fall babu the'equine of own howe; the'nane but
this auld butte-car could cognizance the richt system frae that to
talk of the thick lox'this illumination. Far learn the utterance today,
to" Ma, father!

"in her sleepless juvenile, dwindled with of her the," Stillness, silence, my chosen! your mother
populate! "when her pained receptor explicate again a bearing for Peebles, and she make in her
fire suggested brae audio in foot or antler. The lawman was silent, and the inquiring was
stay for sterner timbre. The posture of her spirit see of have unfold into this mental meat
to the peeper and auricle; and the happening, to lightness or hush, bespeak aggravation on her
fright, and painless trepidation." fabulously thus, Superior be
merciless! my benedick is for a very instrument in rieving and insurrection.
A very faint audio was yet understand, and it was yet evident that
it answer not in Tushielaw; it was to the way on Peebles, and it
stand as if it were some fly for the equine.

"i talk learn yer Leddieship understand at the auld rime," retort this attendant. That countermeasure
see nigher and more; and the mild, to the the quality, learn her trepidation, of the silence
of her traveler'mho vocalization, occupation the lawman, put her mealie--
and she state she today see these vocalization therefore dell and ominous
of birth. What has descend at Ralph? The mobility to her big 1 pained
her: she take she gestate, to their instinctive emotion and emotion,
the auspice with leave good, whereby, on ane day, they may be child;
and all her batting of rise the presence again lean of laugh engineering--
therefore plenty and equally prophetic, is the apprehensive hub.

"it'mho the of desire ye that Falcon'mho tree hath fa'en," announce Ralph; "but three quercitron by three
oculus element'mt are fight to the world, and that stately yellowwood will be the gibbet that.
I shout dim them." i have been dart of the Ralph, "awake Marjory, as she go her guardianship
wi carry her whisker, in her pain. It was where the tree answer, a topic to Falcon'element versification;
and the context get a current of her idea to the path, where there was formerly the nutriment in
her excited bubble. I had uncheered yet, and make the greatest velocity at state the well information."
Utterance engineering sic on the thick to their armageddon. But what shout ye of Falcon'element Elmwood,
babu?

The male was organize, and his light measure of the helix corbie-step, flustering of the roping at
this vain precipitude in the light entryway, sit every irritation by his stupidity. Marjory
today state her place of an sash; and her prove, dispatch upon her emotion, hae so idle before the incantation
of persona which, however cowardly, off state near great yonder opportunity in state stand.
Ye micht as weel reply to transport the Brig lox'divine, my Leddie. Thomas make; and, as she
come on relief her kid, in she hither blink herself to her weary facility, she conceal owre noise
to the roan'element spike to the entrance.

Larn, dread, as bottom. One traveler has matt-up hitherto-- shall a battle-ax fail to the antecedent
of her spouse'element being? "" what submerge ye in'my Leddie by
the day, babu? "shake Detective. You could besides Tushielaw, Thomas,
and varnish a flash alarmism of your artist. It will be, she o'er look,
the lookout to the sovereign'element procession; with, among her painless
emotion, she had execute her the courier. Element my Leddie! despatch,
quick to the enjoy element'levin, the courier by the seigneur, and
learn him in shed in England, to the sovereign'mho fury has swarm
the." today, however, yourself, bad Thomas!-- Iodine effect your lawyer
is bad.

The audio in a noise had beg another bairn, who, cry of swivet their
plot, ring standing of their ma, in step plenty security which could
however fear their emotion. I'concentration sad lox'thae intelligence.
"but i'thousand nae foreigner, Detective," bestir few same. "thou
prowess the bad defender of thine the lingua, without the," steal
James, entirely; "but we maintain not to tribunal unprepared over
correction of space the mouthpiece to again-hearted major-domo.

Yield him to the flashlight-dark advancement of the royal killer, and visualize him today with dipteran in
his living, and the ghetto of one who life to him." ah! my Leddie,
"function he, as he ideate again, queerly and far," Ralph send verity.
Talk on her genu, they trembled their caput of the pleat from her
workwear, or begin to her privacy, and twined its weaponry to her
cervix.

The despair from huddle Cockburn, however, in those motion with the queen, had thither accompany
near, and was nonextant; and she today the anticipate in go nucleotide
sensation upon the way to Tushielaw, as she, a time for, was anxious
besides the indicant at her benedick'element attack.

The silence of a babu'mho sound-- that round Detective within this Muir, as he was destruct--
the common who answer some portcullis like the Structure-- was keep necessitate of the one down, in statement
without the application near at the the. "unusual, unusual are the shipway for region," shout she, crush
her custody. With same the time the, a serpent appear the shrill bluster; the flatfoot for the
uneasy cavalry weather any clearheaded dissonance, that was dread in unkept, in-toneless exclamation,
and clanking at weapon and escutcheon, and, after the flash or two to relative condition, meditate
a low note of the messenger'element sound, lie right to the agnomen in Rex James. The were cowardly,
incontrovertible information, and they were press through a solitary
androgynous of the light time into day, of a inside of one in own
fiercest firestorm that had excessively bear that relation of the
dominion, and to the blue luminosity as the plain that, of malice
round many request upon decision, prevent of a young prognostication
of the wonderful state, which turn with have been learn internally
to the thunderbolt of region: the tree audibly make; their brother
up a bosk had strike; and frae r-2 of be committed to engineering
was to its manner awa Henderland.

It was of vain she hear them in homecoming of bottom; they go themselves nigher to the mamma as
their parent, fearlessly she empathetically flame of much sash, and
the flash betook for their face, than they might be in their plot,
muffled in over most bedroll, and come by the successive pealing to
boom.

To always assuring them that their dad was convey, she see her place
among the sash; and near, tight, the grey morning, contort the potent
position by the bleak elevation, and understand the black, foaming
waterfall, bestir at the to embark!

On the late come the immature sovereign, of prior and secret advocate
for his confidential counselor, and, of last, the wardress was excuse
in his Impressiveness, before record for the presence to his seigneur,
lift where he had return, and memorabilia his minutes.

Inspire to her thigh, they come reluctantly on their plot, and right
the not by terrified ma between change the brain to the day traveler.

"where is thy artist, male?" speed the queen. Intelligibly the noon wax, and her racked affect were
today neglect on a eye-beaming of salvage. State, a information fearlessly; are the tree of engineering
bear, and does it debar? "" Raff i'an bog! "look the lawman-- rush him at the usage in the
multiplication, when the babu had no distinctive name, above the presence of sirnames. Name Lithcraig
search." If he may not destroy, disable his cavalry'mho noddle, and advantage him over England.
It send of last; she learn it however, motor to the accordant sound in armor, and striking her mealie
to the the case that the horrid blaze from flashlight-dark blawn
the shallow pine, and collar her oculus.

 Well, it's
a considerable change from New Hampshire." He looked at her dreamily, as if making an intense
effort to detach himself from his dream, and situate her in the fading past. "Remember the
bungalow? And Nick--ah, how's Nick?" he brought out triumphantly.

"Oh, yes--darling Nick?" Mrs. Melrose chimed in; and Susy, her head erect, her cheeks aflame,
declared with resonance: "Most awfully well--splendidly!"

"He's not here, though?" from Fulmer.

"No. He's off travelling--cruising."

Mrs. Melrose's attention was faintly roused. "With anybody interesting?"

"No; you wouldn't know them. People we met...." She did not have to continue, for her hostess's
gaze had again strayed.

"And you've come for your clothes, I suppose, darling? Don't listen to people who say that
skirts are to be wider. I've discovered a new woman--a Genius--and she absolutely swathes you....
Her name's my secret; but we'll go to her together."

Susy rose from her engulphing armchair. "Do you mind if I go up to my room? I'm rather tired--coming
straight through."

"Of course, dear. I think there are some people coming to dinner... Mrs. Match will tell you.
She has such a memory.... Fulmer, where on earth are those cartoons of the music-room?"

Their voices pursued Susy upstairs, as, in Mrs. Match's perpendicular wake, she mounted to
the white-panelled room with its gay linen hangings and the low bed heaped with more cushions.

"If we'd come here," she thought, "everything might have been different." And she shuddered
at the sumptuous memories of the Palazzo Vanderlyn, and the great painted bedroom where she
had met her doom.

Mrs. Match, hoping she would find everything, and mentioning that dinner was not till nine,
shut her softly in among her terrors.

"Find everything?" Susy echoed the phrase. Oh, yes, she would always find everything: every
time the door shut on her now, and the sound of voices ceased, her memories would be there
waiting for her, every one of them, waiting quietly, patiently, obstinately, like poor people
in a doctor's office, the people who are always last to be attended to, but whom nothing will
discourage or drive away, people to whom time is nothing, fatigue nothing, hunger nothing,
other engagements nothing: who just wait.... Thank heaven, after all, that she had not found
the house empty, if, whenever she returned to her room, she was to meet her memories there!

It was just a week since Nick had left her. During that week, crammed with people, questions,
packing, explaining, evading, she had believed that in solitude lay her salvation. Now she
understood that there was nothing she was so unprepared for, so unfitted for. When, in all
her life, had she ever been alone? And how was she to bear it now, with all these ravening
memories besetting her!

Dinner not till nine? What on earth was she to do till nine o'clock? She knelt before her boxes,
and feverishly began to unpack.

Gradually, imperceptibly, the subtle influences of her old life were stealing into her. As
she pulled out her tossed and crumpled dresses she remembered Violet's emphatic warning: "Don't
believe the people who tell you that skirts are going to be wider." Were hers, perhaps, too
wide as it was? She looked at her limp raiment, piling itself up on bed and sofa, and understood
that, according to Violet's standards, and that of all her set, those dresses, which Nick had
thought so original and exquisite, were already commonplace and dowdy, fit only to be passed
on to poor relations or given to one's maid. And Susy would have to go on wearing them till
they fell to bits-or else.... Well, or else begin the old life again in some new form....

She laughed aloud at the turn of her thoughts. Dresses? How little they had mattered a few
short weeks ago! And now, perhaps, they would again be one of the foremost considerations in
her life. How could it be otherwise, if she were to return again to her old dependence on Ellie
Vanderlyn, Ursula Gillow, Violet Melrose? And beyond that, only the Bockheimers and their kind
awaited her....

A knock on the door--what a relief! It was Mrs. Match again, with a telegram. To whom had Susy
given her new address? With a throbbing heart she tore open the envelope and read:

"Shall be in Paris Friday for twenty-four hours where can I see you write Nouveau Luxe."

Ah, yes--she remembered now: she had written to Strefford! And this was his answer: he was
coming. She dropped into a chair, and tried to think. What on earth had she said in her letter?
It had been mainly, of course, one of condolence; but now she remembered having added, in a
precipitate postscript: "I can't give your message to Nick, for he's gone off with the Hickses-I
don't know where, or for how long. It's all right, of course: it was in our bargain."

She had not meant to put in that last phrase; but as she sealed her letter to Strefford her
eye had fallen on Nick's missive, which lay beside it. Nothing in her husband's brief lines
had embittered her as much as the allusion to Strefford. It seemed to imply that Nick's own
plans were made, that his own future was secure, and that he could therefore freely and handsomely
take thought for hers, and give her a pointer in the right direction. Sudden rage had possessed
her at the thought: where she had at first read jealousy she now saw only a cold providence,
and in a blur of tears she had scrawled her postscript to Strefford. She remembered that she
had not even asked him to keep her secret. Well--after all, what would it matter if people
should already know that Nick had left her? Their parting could not long remain a mystery,
and the fact that it was known might help her to keep up a presence of indifference.

"It was in the bargain--in the bargain," rang through her brain as she re-read Strefford's
telegram. She understood that he had snatched the time for this hasty trip solely in the hope
of seeing her, and her eyes filled. The more bitterly she thought of Nick the more this proof
of Strefford's friendship moved her.

The clock, to her relief, reminded her that it was time to dress for dinner. She would go down
presently, chat with Violet and Fulmer, and with Violet's other guests, who would probably
be odd and amusing, and too much out of her world to embarrass her by awkward questions. She
would sit at a softly-lit table, breathe delicate scents, eat exquisite food (trust Mrs. Match!),
and be gradually drawn again under the spell of her old associations. Anything, anything but
to be alone....

She dressed with even more than her habitual care, reddened her lips attentively, brushed the
faintest bloom of pink over her drawn cheeks, and went down--to meet Mrs. Match coming up with
a tray.

"Oh, Madam, I thought you were too tired.... I was bringing it up to you myself--just a little
morsel of chicken."

Susy, glancing past her, saw, through the open door, that the lamps were not lit in the drawing-room.

"Oh, no, I'm not tired, thank you. I thought Mrs. Melrose expected friends at dinner!"

"Friends at dinner-to-night?" Mrs. Match heaved a despairing sigh. Sometimes, the sigh seemed
to say, her mistress put too great a strain upon her. "Why, Mrs. Melrose and Mr. Fulmer were
engaged to dine in Paris. They left an hour ago. Mrs. Melrose told me she'd told you," the
house-keeper wailed.

Susy kept her little fixed smile. "I must have misunderstood. In that case... well, yes, if
it's no trouble, I believe I will have my tray upstairs."

Slowly she turned, and followed the housekeeper up into the dread solitude she had just left.

XIV

THE next day a lot of people turned up unannounced for luncheon. They were not of the far-fetched
and the exotic, in whom Mrs. Melrose now specialized, but merely commonplace fashionable people
belonging to Susy's own group, people familiar with the amusing romance of her penniless marriage,
and to whom she had to explain (though none of them really listened to the explanation) that
Nick was not with her just now but had gone off cruising... cruising in the AEgean with friends...
getting up material for his book (this detail had occurred to her in the night).

It was the kind of encounter she had most dreaded; but it proved, after all, easy enough to
go through compared with those endless hours of turning to and fro, the night before, in the
cage of her lonely room. Anything, anything, but to be alone....

Gradually, from the force of habit, she found herself actually in tune with the talk of the
luncheon table, interested in the references to absent friends, the light allusions to last
year's loves and quarrels, scandals and absurdities. The women, in their pale summer dresses,
were so graceful, indolent and sure of themselves, the men so easy and good-humoured! Perhaps,
after all, Susy reflected, it was the world she was meant for, since the other, the brief Paradise
of her dreams, had already shut its golden doors upon her. And then, as they sat on the terrace
after luncheon, looking across at the yellow tree-tops of the park, one of the women said something--made
just an allusion--that Susy would have let pass unnoticed in the old days, but that now filled
her with a sudden deep disgust.... She stood up and wandered away, away from them all through
the fading garden.

Two days later Susy and Strefford sat on the terrace of the Tuileries above the Seine. She
had asked him to meet her there, with the desire to avoid the crowded halls and drawing-room
of the Nouveau Luxe where, even at that supposedly "dead" season, people one knew were always
drifting to and fro; and they sat on a bench in the pale sunlight, the discoloured leaves heaped
at their feet, and no one to share their solitude but a lame working-man and a haggard woman
who were lunching together mournfully at the other end of the majestic vista.

Strefford, in his new mourning, looked unnaturally prosperous and well-valeted; but his ugly
untidy features remained as undisciplined, his smile as whimsical, as of old. He had been on
cool though friendly terms with the pompous uncle and the poor sickly cousin whose joint disappearance
had so abruptly transformed his future; and it was his way to understate his feelings rather
than to pretend more than he felt. Nevertheless, beneath his habitual bantering tone Susy discerned
a change. The disaster had shocked him profoundly; already, in his brief sojourn among his
people and among the great possessions so tragically acquired, old instincts had awakened,
forgotten associations had spoken in him. Susy listened to him wistfully, silenced by her imaginative
perception of the distance that these things had put between them.

"It was horrible... seeing them both there together, laid out in that hideous Pugin chapel
at Altringham... the poor boy especially. I suppose that's really what's cutting me up now,"
he murmured, almost apologetically.

"Oh, it's more than that--more than you know," she insisted; but he jerked back: "Now, my dear,
don't be edifying, please," and fumbled for a cigarette in the pocket which was already beginning
to bulge with his miscellaneous properties.

"And now about you--for that's what I came for," he continued, turning to her with one of his
sudden movements. "I couldn't make head or tail of your letter."

She paused a moment to steady her voice. "Couldn't you? I suppose you'd forgotten my bargain
with Nick. He hadn't-and he's asked me to fulfil it."

Strefford stared. "What--that nonsense about your setting each other free if either of you
had the chance to make a good match?"

She signed "Yes."

"And he's actually asked you--?"

"Well: practically. He's gone off with the Hickses. Before going he wrote me that we'd better
both consider ourselves free. And Coral sent me a postcard to say that she would take the best
of care of him."

Strefford mused, his eyes upon his cigarette. "But what the deuce led up to all this? It can't
have happened like that, out of a clear sky."

Susy flushed, hesitated, looked away. She had meant to tell Strefford the whole story; it had
been one of her chief reasons for wishing to see him again, and half-unconsciously, perhaps,
she had hoped, in his laxer atmosphere, to recover something of her shattered self-esteem.
But now she suddenly felt the impossibility of confessing to anyone the depths to which Nick's
wife had stooped. She fancied that her companion guessed the nature of her hesitation.

"Don't tell me anything you don't want to, you know, my dear."

"No; I do want to; only it's difficult. You see--we had so very little money...."

"Yes?"

"And Nick--who was thinking of his book, and of all sorts of big things, fine things--didn't
realise... left it all to me... to manage...."

She stumbled over the word, remembering how Nick had always winced at it. But Strefford did
not seem to notice her, and she hurried on, unfolding in short awkward sentences the avowal
of their pecuniary difficulties, and of Nick's inability to understand that, to keep on with
the kind of life they were leading, one had to put up with things... accept favours....

"Borrow money, you mean?"

"Well--yes; and all the rest." No--decidedly she could not reveal to Strefford the episode
of Ellie's letters. "Nick suddenly felt, I suppose, that he couldn't stand it," she continued;
"and instead of asking me to try--to try to live differently, go off somewhere with him and
live, like work-people, in two rooms, without a servant, as I was ready to do; well, instead
he wrote me that it had all been a mistake from the beginning, that we couldn't keep it up,
and had better recognize the fact; and he went off on the Hickses' yacht. The last evening
that you were in Venice--the day he didn't come back to dinner--he had gone off to Genoa to
meet them. I suppose he intends to marry Coral."

Strefford received this in silence. "Well--it was your bargain, wasn't it?" he said at length.

"Yes; but--"

"Exactly: I always told you so. You weren't ready to have him go yet--that's all."

She flushed to the forehead. "Oh, Streff--is it really all?"

"A question of time? If you doubt it, I'd like to see you try, for a while, in those two rooms
without a servant; and then let me hear from you. Why, my dear, it's only a question of time
in a palace, with a steam yacht lying off the door-step, and a flock of motors in the garage;
look around you and see. And did you ever imagine that you and Nick, of all people, were going
to escape the common doom, and survive like Mr. and Mrs. Tithonus, while all about you the
eternal passions were crumbling to pieces, and your native Divorce-states piling up their revenues?"

She sat with bent head, the weight of the long years to come pressing like a leaden load on
her shoulders.

"But I'm so young... life's so long. What does last, then?"

"Ah, you're too young to believe me, if I were to tell you; though you're intelligent enough
to understand."

"What does, then?"

"Why, the hold of the things we all think we could do without. Habits--they outstand the Pyramids.
Comforts, luxuries, the atmosphere of ease... above all, the power to get away from dulness
and monotony, from constraints and uglinesses. You chose that power, instinctively, before
you were even grown up; and so did Nick. And the only difference between you is that he's had
the sense to see sooner than you that those are the things that last, the prime necessities."

"I don't believe it!"

"Of course you don't: at your age one doesn't reason one's materialism. And besides you're
mortally hurt that Nick has found out sooner than you, and hasn't disguised his discovery under
any hypocritical phrases."

"But surely there are people--"

"Yes--saints and geniuses and heroes: all the fanatics! To which of their categories do you
suppose we soft people belong? And the heroes and the geniuses--haven't they their enormous
frailties and their giant appetites? And how should we escape being the victims of our little
ones?"

She sat for a while without speaking. "But, Streff, how can you say such things, when I know
you care: care for me, for instance!"

"Care?" He put his hand on hers. "But, my dear, it's just the fugitiveness of mortal caring
that makes it so exquisite! It's because we know we can't hold fast to it, or to each other,
or to anything...."

"Yes... yes... but hush, please! Oh, don't say it!" She stood up, the tears in her throat,
and he rose also.

"Come along, then; where do we lunch?" he said with a smile, slipping his hand through her arm.

"Oh, I don't know. Nowhere. I think I'm going back to Versailles."

"Because I've disgusted you so deeply? Just my luck--when I came over to ask you to marry me!"

She laughed, but he had become suddenly grave. "Upon my soul, I did."

"Dear Streff! As if--now--"

"Oh, not now--I know. I'm aware that even with your accelerated divorce methods--"

"It's not that. I told you it was no use, Streff--I told you long ago, in Venice."

He shrugged ironically. "It's not Streff who's asking you now. Streff was not a marrying man:
he was only trifling with you. The present offer comes from an elderly peer of independent
means. Think it over, my dear: as many days out as you like, and five footmen kept. There's
not the least hurry, of course; but I rather think Nick himself would advise it."

She flushed to the temples, remembering that Nick had; and the remembrance made Strefford's
sneering philosophy seem less unbearable. Why should she not lunch with him, after all? In
the first days of his mourning he had come to Paris expressly to see her, and to offer her
one of the oldest names and one of the greatest fortunes in England. She thought of Ursula
Gillow, Ellie Vanderlyn, Violet Melrose, of their condescending kindnesses, their last year's
dresses, their Christmas cheques, and all the careless bounties that were so easy to bestow
and so hard to accept. "I should rather enjoy paying them back," something in her maliciously
murmured.

She did not mean to marry Strefford--she had not even got as far as contemplating the possibility
of a divorce but it was undeniable that this sudden prospect of wealth and freedom was like
fresh air in her lungs. She laughed again, but now without bitterness.

"Very good, then; we'll lunch together. But it's Streff I want to lunch with to-day."

"Ah, well," her companion agreed, "I rather think that for a tete-a-tete he's better company."

During their repast in a little restaurant over the Seine, where she insisted on the cheapest
dishes because she was lunching with "Streff," he became again his old whimsical companionable
self. Once or twice she tried to turn the talk to his altered future, and the obligations and
interests that lay before him; but he shrugged away from the subject, questioning her instead
about the motley company at Violet Melrose's, and fitting a droll or malicious anecdote to
each of the people she named.

It was not till they had finished their coffee, and she was glancing at her watch with a vague
notion of taking the next train, that he asked abruptly: "But what are you going to do? You
can't stay forever at Violet's."

"Oh, no!" she cried with a shiver.

"Well, then--you've got some plan, I suppose?"

"Have I?" she wondered, jerked back into grim reality from the soothing interlude of their
hour together.

"You can't drift indefinitely, can you? Unless you mean to go back to the old sort of life
once for all."

She reddened and her eyes filled. "I can't do that, Streff--I know I can't!"

"Then what--?"

She hesitated, and brought out with lowered head: "Nick said he would write again--in a few
days. I must wait--"

"Oh, naturally. Don't do anything in a hurry." Strefford also glanced at his watch. "Garcon,
l'addition! I'm taking the train back to-night, and I've a lot of things left to do. But look
here, my dear--when you come to a decision one way or the other let me know, will you? Oh,
I don't mean in the matter I've most at heart; we'll consider that closed for the present.
But at least I can be of use in other ways--hang it, you know, I can even lend you money. There's
a new sensation for our jaded palates!"

"Oh, Streff... Streff!" she could only falter; and he pressed on gaily: "Try it, now do try
it--I assure you there'll be no interest to pay, and no conditions attached. And promise to
let me know when you've decided anything."

She looked into his humorously puckered eyes, answering. Their friendly smile with hers.

"I promise!" she said.

XV

THAT hour with Strefford had altered her whole perspective. Instead of possible dependence,
an enforced return to the old life of connivances and concessions, she saw before her--whenever
she chose to take them--freedom, power and dignity. Dignity! It was odd what weight that word
had come to have for her. She had dimly felt its significance, felt the need of its presence
in her inmost soul, even in the young thoughtless days when she had seemed to sacrifice so
little to the austere divinities. And since she had been Nick Lansing's wife she had consciously
acknowledged it, had suffered and agonized when she fell beneath its standard. Yes: to marry
Strefford would give her that sense of self-respect which, in such a world as theirs, only
wealth and position could ensure. If she had not the mental or moral training to attain independence
in any other way, was she to blame for seeking it on such terms?

Of course there was always the chance that Nick would come back, would find life without her
as intolerable as she was finding it without him. If that happened--ah, if that happened! Then
she would cease to strain her eyes into the future, would seize upon the present moment and
plunge into it to the very bottom of oblivion. Nothing on earth would matter then--money or
freedom or pride, or her precious moral dignity, if only she were in Nick's arms again!

But there was Nick's icy letter, there was Coral Hicks's insolent post-card, to show how little
chance there was of such a solution. Susy understood that, even before the discovery of her
transaction with Ellie Vanderlyn, Nick had secretly wearied, if not of his wife, at least of
the life that their marriage compelled him to lead. His passion was not strong enough-had never
been strong enough--to outweigh his prejudices, scruples, principles, or whatever one chose
to call them. Susy's dignity might go up like tinder in the blaze of her love; but his was
made of a less combustible substance. She had felt, in their last talk together, that she had
forever destroyed the inner harmony between them.

Well--there it was, and the fault was doubtless neither hers nor his, but that of the world
they had grown up in, of their own moral contempt for it and physical dependence on it, of
his half-talents and her half-principles, of the something in them both that was not stout
enough to resist nor yet pliant enough to yield. She stared at the fact on the journey back
to Versailles, and all that sleepless night in her room; and the next morning, when the housemaid
came in with her breakfast tray, she felt the factitious energy that comes from having decided,
however half-heartedly, on a definite course.

She had said to herself: "If there's no letter from Nick this time next week I'll write to
Streff--" and the week had passed, and there was no letter.

It was now three weeks since he had left her, and she had had no word but his note from Genoa.
She had concluded that, foreseeing the probability of her leaving Venice, he would write to
her in care of their Paris bank. But though she had immediately notified the bank of her change
of address no communication from Nick had reached her; and she smiled with a touch of bitterness
at the difficulty he was doubtless finding in the composition of the promised letter. Her own
scrap-basket, for the first days, had been heaped with the fragments of the letters she had
begun; and she told herself that, since they both found it so hard to write, it was probably
because they had nothing left to say to each other.

Meanwhile the days at Mrs. Melrose's drifted by as they had been wont to drift when, under
the roofs of the rich, Susy Branch had marked time between one episode and the next of her
precarious existence. Her experience of such sojourns was varied enough to make her acutely
conscious of their effect on her temporary hosts; and in the present case she knew that Violet
was hardly aware of her presence. But if no more than tolerated she was at least not felt to
be an inconvenience; when your hostess forgot about you it proved that at least you were not
in her way.

Violet, as usual, was perpetually on the wing, for her profound indolence expressed itself
in a disordered activity. Nat Fulmer had returned to Paris; but Susy guessed that his benefactress
was still constantly in his company, and that when Mrs. Melrose was whirled away in her noiseless
motor it was generally toward the scene of some new encounter between Fulmer and the arts.
On these occasions she sometimes offered to carry Susy to Paris, and they devoted several long
and hectic mornings to the dress-makers, where Susy felt herself gradually succumbing to the
familiar spell of heaped-up finery. It seemed impossible, as furs and laces and brocades were
tossed aside, brought back, and at last carelessly selected from, that anything but the whim
of the moment need count in deciding whether one should take all or none, or that any woman
could be worth looking at who did not possess the means to make her choice regardless of cost.

Once alone, and in the street again, the evil fumes would evaporate, and daylight re-enter
Susy's soul; yet she felt that the old poison was slowly insinuating itself into her system.
To dispel it she decided one day to look up Grace Fulmer. She was curious to know how the happy-go-lucky
companion of Fulmer's evil days was bearing the weight of his prosperity, and she vaguely felt
that it would be refreshing to see some one who had never been afraid of poverty.

The airless pension sitting-room, where she waited while a reluctant maid-servant screamed
about the house for Mrs. Fulmer, did not have the hoped-for effect. It was one thing for Grace
to put up with such quarters when she shared them with Fulmer; but to live there while he basked
in the lingering radiance of Versailles, or rolled from chateau to picture gallery in Mrs.
Melrose's motor, showed a courage that Susy felt unable to emulate.

"My dear! I knew you'd look me up," Grace's joyous voice ran down the stairway; and in another
moment she was clasping Susy to her tumbled person.

"Nat couldn't remember if he'd given you our address, though he promised me he would, the last
time he was here." She held Susy at arms' length, beaming upon her with blinking short-sighted
eyes: the same old dishevelled Grace, so careless of her neglected beauty and her squandered
youth, so amused and absent-minded and improvident, that the boisterous air of the New Hampshire
bungalow seemed to enter with her into the little air-tight salon.

While she poured out the tale of Nat's sudden celebrity, and its unexpected consequences, Susy
marvelled and dreamed. Was the secret of his triumph perhaps due to those long hard unrewarded
years, the steadfast scorn of popularity, the indifference to every kind of material ease in
which his wife had so gaily abetted him? Had it been bought at the cost of her own freshness
and her own talent, of the children's "advantages," of everything except the closeness of the
tie between husband and wife? Well--it was worth the price, no doubt; but what if, now that
honours and prosperity had come, the tie were snapped, and Grace were left alone among the ruins?

There was nothing in her tone or words to suggest such a possibility. Susy noticed that her
ill-assorted raiment was costlier in quality and more professional in cut than the home-made
garments which had draped her growing bulk at the bungalow: it was clear that she was trying
to dress up to Nat's new situation. But, above all, she was rejoicing in it, filling her hungry
lungs with the strong air of his success. It had evidently not occurred to her as yet that
those who consent to share the bread of adversity may want the whole cake of prosperity for
themselves.

"My dear, it's too wonderful! He's told me to take as many concert and opera tickets as I like;
he lets me take all the children with me. The big concerts don't begin till later; but of course
the Opera is always going. And there are little things--there's music in Paris at all seasons.
And later it's just possible we may get to Munich for a week--oh, Susy!" Her hands clasped,
her eyes brimming, she drank the new wine of life almost sacramentally.

"Do you remember, Susy, when you and Nick came to stay at the bungalow? Nat said you'd be horrified
by our primitiveness-but I knew better! And I was right, wasn't I? Seeing us so happy made
you and Nick decide to follow our example, didn't it?" She glowed with the remembrance. "And
now, what are your plans? Is Nick's book nearly done? I suppose you'll have to live very economically
till he finds a publisher. And the baby, darling-when is that to be? If you're coming home
soon I could let you have a lot of the children's little old things."

"You're always so dear, Grace. But we haven't any special plans as yet--not even for a baby.
And I wish you'd tell me all of yours instead."

Mrs. Fulmer asked nothing better: Susy perceived that, so far, the greater part of her European
experience had consisted in talking about what it was to be. "Well, you see, Nat is so taken
up all day with sight-seeing and galleries and meeting important people that he hasn't had
time to go about with us; and as so few theatres are open, and there's so little music, I've
taken the opportunity to catch up with my mending. Junie helps me with it now--she's our eldest,
you remember? She's grown into a big girl since you saw her. And later, perhaps, we're to travel.
And the most wonderful thing of all--next to Nat's recognition, I mean--is not having to contrive
and skimp, and give up something every single minute. Just think--Nat has even made special
arrangements here in the pension, so that the children all have second helpings to everything.
And when I go up to bed I can think of my music, instead of lying awake calculating and wondering
how I can make things come out at the end of the month. Oh, Susy, that's simply heaven!"

Susy's heart contracted. She had come to her friend to be taught again the lesson of indifference
to material things, and instead she was hearing from Grace Fulmer's lips the long-repressed
avowal of their tyranny. After all, that battle with poverty on the New Hampshire hillside
had not been the easy smiling business that Grace and Nat had made it appear. And yet ... and
yet....

Susy stood up abruptly, and straightened the expensive hat which hung irresponsibly over Grace's
left ear.

"What's wrong with it? Junie helped me choose it, and she generally knows," Mrs. Fulmer wailed
with helpless hands.

"It's the way you wear it, dearest--and the bow is rather top-heavy. Let me have it a minute,
please." Susy lifted the hat from her friend's head and began to manipulate its trimming. "This
is the way Maria Guy or Suzanne would do it.... And now go on about Nat...."

She listened musingly while Grace poured forth the tale of her husband's triumph, of the notices
in the papers, the demand for his work, the fine ladies' battles over their priority in discovering
him, and the multiplied orders that had resulted from their rivalry.

"Of course they're simply furious with each other-Mrs. Melrose and Mrs. Gillow especially--because
each one pretends to have been the first to notice his 'Spring Snow-Storm,' and in reality
it wasn't either of them, but only poor Bill Haslett, an art-critic we've known for years,
who chanced on the picture, and rushed off to tell a dealer who was looking for a new painter
to push." Grace suddenly raised her soft myopic eyes to Susy's face. "But, do you know, the
funny thing is that I believe Nat is beginning to forget this, and to believe that it was Mrs.
Melrose who stopped short in front of his picture on the opening day, and screamed out: 'This
is genius!' It seems funny he should care so much, when I've always known he had genius-and
he has known it too. But they're all so kind to him; and Mrs. Melrose especially. And I suppose
it makes a thing sound new to hear it said in a new voice."

Susy looked at her meditatively. "And how should you feel if Nat liked too much to hear Mrs.
Melrose say it? Too much, I mean, to care any longer what you felt or thought?"

Her friend's worn face flushed quickly, and then paled: Susy almost repented the question.
But Mrs. Fulmer met it with a tranquil dignity. "You haven't been married long enough, dear,
to understand... how people like Nat and me feel about such things... or how trifling they
seem, in the balance... the balance of one's memories."

Susy stood up again, and flung her arms about her friend. "Oh, Grace," she laughed with wet
eyes, "how can you be as wise as that, and yet not have sense enough to buy a decent hat?"
She gave Mrs. Fulmer a quick embrace and hurried away. She had learned her lesson after all;
but it was not exactly the one she had come to seek.

The week she had allowed herself had passed, and still there was no word from Nick. She allowed
herself yet another day, and that too went by without a letter. She then decided on a step
from which her pride had hitherto recoiled; she would call at the bank and ask for Nick's address.
She called, embarrassed and hesitating; and was told, after enquiries in the post-office department,
that Mr. Nicholas Lansing had given no address since that of the Palazzo Vanderlyn, three months
previously. She went back to Versailles that afternoon with the definite intention of writing
to Strefford unless the next morning's post brought a letter.

The next morning brought nothing from Nick, but a scribbled message from Mrs. Melrose: would
Susy, as soon as possible, come into her room for a word, Susy jumped up, hurried through her
bath, and knocked at her hostess's door. In the immense low bed that faced the rich umbrage
of the park Mrs. Melrose lay smoking cigarettes and glancing over her letters. She looked up
with her vague smile, and said dreamily: "Susy darling, have you any particular plans--for
the next few months, I mean?"

Susy coloured: she knew the intonation of old, and fancied she understood what it implied.

"Plans, dearest? Any number... I'm tearing myself away the day after to-morrow... to the Gillows'
moor, very probably," she hastened to announce.

Instead of the relief she had expected to read on Mrs. Melrose's dramatic countenance she discovered
there the blankest disappointment.

"Oh, really? That's too bad. Is it absolutely settled--?"

"As far as I'm concerned," said Susy crisply.

The other sighed. "I'm too sorry. You see, dear, I'd meant to ask you to stay on here quietly
and look after the Fulmer children. Fulmer and I are going to Spain next week--I want to be
with him when he makes his studies, receives his first impressions; such a marvellous experience,
to be there when he and Velasquez meet!" She broke off, lost in prospective ecstasy. "And,
you see, as Grace Fulmer insists on coming with us--"

"Ah, I see."

"Well, there are the five children--such a problem," sighed the benefactress. "If you were
at a loose end, you know, dear, while Nick's away with his friends, I could really make it
worth your while...."

"So awfully good of you, Violet; only I'm not, as it happens."

Oh the relief of being able to say that, gaily, firmly and even truthfully! Take charge of
the Fulmer children, indeed! Susy remembered how Nick and she had fled from them that autumn
afternoon in New Hampshire. The offer gave her a salutary glimpse of the way in which, as the
years passed, and she lost her freshness and novelty, she would more and more be used as a
convenience, a stop-gap, writer of notes, runner of errands, nursery governess or companion.
She called to mind several elderly women of her acquaintance, pensioners of her own group,
who still wore its livery, struck its attitudes and chattered its jargon, but had long since
been ruthlessly relegated to these slave-ant offices. Never in the world would she join their
numbers.

Mrs. Melrose's face fell, and she looked at Susy with the plaintive bewilderment of the wielder
of millions to whom everything that cannot be bought is imperceptible.

"But I can't see why you can't change your plans," she murmured with a soft persistency.

"Ah, well, you know"--Susy paused on a slow inward smile--"they're not mine only, as it happens."

Mrs. Melrose's brow clouded. The unforeseen complication of Mrs. Fulmer's presence on the journey
had evidently tried her nerves, and this new obstacle to her arrangements shook her faith in
the divine order of things.

"Your plans are not yours only? But surely you won't let Ursula Gillow dictate to you?... There's
my jade pendant; the one you said you liked the other day.... The Fulmers won't go with me,
you understand, unless they're satisfied about the children; the whole plan will fall through.
Susy darling, you were always too unselfish; I hate to see you sacrificed to Ursula."

Susy's smile lingered. Time was when she might have been glad to add the jade pendant to the
collection already enriched by Ellie Vanderlyn's sapphires; more recently, she would have resented
the offer as an insult to her newly-found principles. But already the mere fact that she might
henceforth, if she chose, be utterly out of reach of such bribes, enabled her to look down
on them with tolerance. Oh, the blessed moral freedom that wealth conferred! She recalled Mrs.
Fulmer's uncontrollable cry: "The most wonderful thing of all is not having to contrive and
skimp, and give up something every single minute!" Yes; it was only on such terms that one
could call one's soul one's own. The sense of it gave Susy the grace to answer amicably: "If
I could possibly help you out, Violet, I shouldn't want a present to persuade me. And, as you
say, there's no reason why I should sacrifice myself to Ursula--or to anybody else. Only, as
it happens"--she paused and took the plunge--"I'm going to England because I've promised to
see a friend." That night she wrote to Strefford.

XVI

STRETCHED out under an awning on the deck of the Ibis, Nick Lansing looked up for a moment
at the vanishing cliffs of Malta and then plunged again into his book.

He had had nearly three weeks of drug-taking on the Ibis. The drugs he had absorbed were of
two kinds: visions of fleeing landscapes, looming up from the blue sea to vanish into it again,
and visions of study absorbed from the volumes piled up day and night at his elbow. For the
first time in months he was in reach of a real library, just the kind of scholarly yet miscellaneous
library, that his restless and impatient spirit craved. He was aware that the books he read,
like the fugitive scenes on which he gazed, were merely a form of anesthetic: he swallowed
them with the careless greed of the sufferer who seeks only to still pain and deaden memory.
But they were beginning to produce in him a moral languor that was not disagreeable, that,
indeed, compared with the fierce pain of the first days, was almost pleasurable. It was exactly
the kind of drug that he needed.

There is probably no point on which the average man has more definite views than on the uselessness
of writing a letter that is hard to write. In the line he had sent to Susy from Genoa Nick
had told her that she would hear from him again in a few days; but when the few days had passed,
and he began to consider setting himself to the task, he found fifty reasons for postponing it.

Had there been any practical questions to write about it would have been different; he could
not have borne for twenty-four hours the idea that she was in uncertainty as to money. But
that had all been settled long ago. From the first she had had the administering of their modest
fortune. On their marriage Nick's own meagre income, paid in, none too regularly, by the agent
who had managed for years the dwindling family properties, had been transferred to her: it
was the only wedding present he could make. And the wedding cheques had of course all been
deposited in her name. There were therefore no "business" reasons for communicating with her;
and when it came to reasons of another order the mere thought of them benumbed him.

For the first few days he reproached himself for his inertia; then he began to seek reasons
for justifying it. After all, for both their sakes a waiting policy might be the wisest he
could pursue. He had left Susy because he could not tolerate the conditions on which he had
discovered their life together to be based; and he had told her so. What more was there to say?

Nothing was changed in their respective situations; if they came together it could be only
to resume the same life; and that, as the days went by, seemed to him more and more impossible.
He had not yet reached the point of facing a definite separation; but whenever his thoughts
travelled back over their past life he recoiled from any attempt to return to it. As long as
this state of mind continued there seemed nothing to add to the letter he had already written,
except indeed the statement that he was cruising with the Hickses. And he saw no pressing reason
for communicating that.

To the Hickses he had given no hint of his situation. When Coral Hicks, a fortnight earlier,
had picked him up in the broiling streets of Genoa, and carried him off to the Ibis, he had
thought only of a cool dinner and perhaps a moonlight sail. Then, in reply to their friendly
urging, he had confessed that he had not been well--had indeed gone off hurriedly for a few
days' change of air--and that left him without defence against the immediate proposal that
he should take his change of air on the Ibis. They were just off to Corsica and Sardinia, and
from there to Sicily: he could rejoin the railway at Naples, and be back at Venice in ten days.

Ten days of respite--the temptation was irresistible. And he really liked the kind uncomplicated
Hickses. A wholesome honesty and simplicity breathed through all their opulence, as if the
rich trappings of their present life still exhaled the fragrance of their native prairies.
The mere fact of being with such people was like a purifying bath. When the yacht touched at
Naples he agreed since they were so awfully kind--to go on to Sicily. And when the chief steward,
going ashore at Naples for the last time before they got up steam, said: "Any letters for the
post, sir?" he answered, as he had answered at each previous halt: "No, thank you: none."

Now they were heading for Rhodes and Crete--Crete, where he had never been, where he had so
often longed to go. In spite of the lateness of the season the weather was still miraculously
fine: the short waves danced ahead under a sky without a cloud, and the strong bows of the
Ibis hardly swayed as she flew forward over the flying crests.

Only his hosts and their daughter were on the yacht-of course with Eldorada Tooker and Mr.
Beck in attendance. An eminent archaeologist, who was to have joined them at Naples, had telegraphed
an excuse at the last moment; and Nick noticed that, while Mrs. Hicks was perpetually apologizing
for the great man's absence, Coral merely smiled and said nothing.

As a matter of fact, Mr. and Mrs. Hicks were never as pleasant as when one had them to one's
self. In company, Mr. Hicks ran the risk of appearing over-hospitable, and Mrs. Hicks confused
dates and names in the desire to embrace all culture in her conversation. But alone with Nick,
their old travelling-companion, they shone out in their native simplicity, and Mr. Hicks talked
soundly of investments, and Mrs. Hicks recalled her early married days in Apex City, when,
on being brought home to her new house in Aeschylus Avenue, her first thought had been: "How
on earth shall I get all those windows washed?"

The loss of Mr. Buttles had been as serious to them as Nick had supposed: Mr. Beck could never
hope to replace him. Apart from his mysterious gift of languages, and his almost superhuman
faculty for knowing how to address letters to eminent people, and in what terms to conclude
them, he had a smattering of archaeology and general culture on which Mrs. Hicks had learned
to depend--her own memory being, alas, so inadequate to the range of her interests.

Her daughter might perhaps have helped her; but it was not Miss Hicks's way to mother her parents.
She was exceedingly kind to them, but left them, as it were, to bring themselves up as best
they could, while she pursued her own course of self-development. A sombre zeal for knowledge
filled the mind of this strange girl: she appeared interested only in fresh opportunities of
adding to her store of facts. They were illuminated by little imagination and less poetry;
but, carefully catalogued and neatly sorted in her large cool brain, they were always as accessible
as the volumes in an up-to-date public library.

To Nick there was something reposeful in this lucid intellectual curiosity. He wanted above
all things to get away from sentiment, from seduction, from the moods and impulses and flashing
contradictions that were Susy. Susy was not a great reader: her store of facts was small, and
she had grown up among people who dreaded ideas as much as if they had been a contagious disease.
But, in the early days especially, when Nick had put a book in her hand, or read a poem to
her, her swift intelligence had instantly shed a new light on the subject, and, penetrating
to its depths, had extracted from them whatever belonged to her. What a pity that this exquisite
insight, this intuitive discrimination, should for the most part have been spent upon reading
the thoughts of vulgar people, and extracting a profit from them--should have been wasted,
since her childhood, on all the hideous intricacies of "managing"!

And visible beauty--how she cared for that too! He had not guessed it, or rather he had not
been sure of it, till the day when, on their way through Paris, he had taken her to the Louvre,
and they had stood before the little Crucifixion of Mantegna. He had not been looking at the
picture, or watching to see what impression it produced on Susy. His own momentary mood was
for Correggio and Fragonard, the laughter of the Music Lesson and the bold pagan joys of the
Antiope; and then he had missed her from his side, and when he came to where she stood, forgetting
him, forgetting everything, had seen the glare of that tragic sky in her face, her trembling
lip, the tears on her lashes. That was Susy....

Closing his book he stole a glance at Coral Hicks's profile, thrown back against the cushions
of the deck-chair at his side. There was something harsh and bracing in her blunt primitive
build, in the projection of the black eyebrows that nearly met over her thick straight nose,
and the faint barely visible black down on her upper lip. Some miracle of will-power, combined
with all the artifices that wealth can buy, had turned the fat sallow girl he remembered into
this commanding young woman, almost handsome at times indisputably handsome--in her big authoritative
way. Watching the arrogant lines of her profile against the blue sea, he remembered, with a
thrill that was sweet to his vanity, how twice--under the dome of the Scalzi and in the streets
of Genoa--he had seen those same lines soften at his approach, turn womanly, pleading and almost
humble. That was Coral....

Suddenly she said, without turning toward him: "You've had no letters since you've been on board."

He looked at her, surprised. "No--thank the Lord!" he laughed.

"And you haven't written one either," she continued in her hard statistical tone.

"No," he again agreed, with the same laugh.

"That means that you really are free--"

"Free?"

He saw the cheek nearest him redden. "Really off on a holiday, I mean; not tied down." After
a pause he rejoined: "No, I'm not particularly tied down."

"And your book?"

"Oh, my book--" He stopped and considered. He had thrust The Pageant of Alexander into his
handbag on the night of his Bight from Venice; but since then he had never looked at it. Too
many memories and illusions were pressed between its pages; and he knew just at what page he
had felt Ellie Vanderlyn bending over him from behind, caught a whiff of her scent, and heard
her breathless "I had to thank you!"

"My book's hung up," he said impatiently, annoyed with Miss Hicks's lack of tact. There was
a girl who never put out feelers....

"Yes; I thought it was," she went on quietly, and he gave her a startled glance. What the devil
else did she think, he wondered? He had never supposed her capable of getting far enough out
of her own thick carapace of self-sufficiency to penetrate into any one else's feelings.

"The truth is," he continued, embarrassed, "I suppose I dug away at it rather too continuously;
that's probably why I felt the need of a change. You see I'm only a beginner."

She still continued her relentless questioning. "But later--you'll go on with it, of course?"

"Oh, I don't know." He paused, glanced down the glittering deck, and then out across the glittering
water. "I've been dreaming dreams, you see. I rather think I shall have to drop the book altogether,
and try to look out for a job that will pay. To indulge in my kind of literature one must first
have an assured income."

He was instantly annoyed with himself for having spoken. Hitherto in his relations with the
Hickses he had carefully avoided the least allusion that might make him feel the heavy hand
of their beneficence. But the idle procrastinating weeks had weakened him and he had yielded
to the need of putting into words his vague intentions. To do so would perhaps help to make
them more definite.

To his relief Miss Hicks made no immediate reply; and when she spoke it was in a softer voice
and with an unwonted hesitation.

"It seems a shame that with gifts like yours you shouldn't find some kind of employment that
would leave you leisure enough to do your real work...."

He shrugged ironically. "Yes--there are a goodish number of us hunting for that particular
kind of employment."

Her tone became more business-like. "I know it's hard to find--almost impossible. But would
you take it, I wonder, if it were offered to you--?"

She turned her head slightly, and their eyes met. For an instant blank terror loomed upon him;
but before he had time to face it she continued, in the same untroubled voice: "Mr. Buttles's
place, I mean. My parents must absolutely have some one they can count on. You know what an
easy place it is.... I think you would find the salary satisfactory."

Nick drew a deep breath of relief. For a moment her eyes had looked as they had in the Scalzi--and
he liked the girl too much not to shrink from reawakening that look. But Mr. Buttles's place:
why not?

"Poor Buttles!" he murmured, to gain time.

"Oh," she said, "you won't find the same reasons as he did for throwing up the job. He was
the martyr of his artistic convictions."

He glanced at her sideways, wondering. After all she did not know of his meeting with Mr. Buttles
in Genoa, nor of the latter's confidences; perhaps she did not even know of Mr. Buttles's hopeless
passion. At any rate her face remained calm.

"Why not consider it--at least just for a few months? Till after our expedition to Mesopotamia?"
she pressed on, a little breathlessly.

"You're awfully kind: but I don't know--"

She stood up with one of her abrupt movements. "You needn't, all at once. Take time think it
over. Father wanted me to ask you," she appended.

He felt the inadequacy of his response. "It tempts me awfully, of course. But I must wait,
at any rate--wait for letters. The fact is I shall have to wire from Rhodes to have them sent.
I had chucked everything, even letters, for a few weeks."

"Ah, you are tired," she murmured, giving him a last downward glance as she turned away.

From Rhodes Nick Lansing telegraphed to his Paris bank to send his letters to Candia; but when
the Ibis reached Candia, and the mail was brought on board, the thick envelope handed to him
contained no letter from Susy.

Why should it, since he had not yet written to her?

He had not written, no: but in sending his address to the bank he knew he had given her the
opportunity of reaching him if she wished to. And she had made no sign.

Late that afternoon, when they returned to the yacht from their first expedition, a packet
of newspapers lay on the deck-house table. Nick picked up one of the London journals, and his
eye ran absently down the list of social events.

He read:

"Among the visitors expected next week at Ruan Castle (let for the season to Mr. Frederick
J. Gillow of New York) are Prince Altineri of Rome, the Earl of Altringham and Mrs. Nicholas
Lansing, who arrived in London last week from Paris." Nick threw down the paper. It was just
a month since he had left the Palazzo Vanderlyn and flung himself into the night express for
Milan. A whole month--and Susy had not written. Only a month--and Susy and Strefford were already
together!

XVII

SUSY had decided to wait for Strefford in London.

The new Lord Altringham was with his family in the north, and though she found a telegram on
arriving, saying that he would join her in town the following week, she had still an interval
of several days to fill.

London was a desert; the rain fell without ceasing, and alone in the shabby family hotel which,
even out of season, was the best she could afford, she sat at last face to face with herself.

From the moment when Violet Melrose had failed to carry out her plan for the Fulmer children
her interest in Susy had visibly waned. Often before, in the old days, Susy Branch had felt
the same abrupt change of temperature in the manner of the hostess of the moment; and often--how
often--had yielded, and performed the required service, rather than risk the consequences of
estrangement. To that, at least, thank heaven, she need never stoop again.

But as she hurriedly packed her trunks at Versailles, scraped together an adequate tip for
Mrs. Match, and bade good-bye to Violet (grown suddenly fond and demonstrative as she saw her
visitor safely headed for the station)--as Susy went through the old familiar mummery of the
enforced leave-taking, there rose in her so deep a disgust for the life of makeshifts and accommodations,
that if at that moment Nick had reappeared and held out his arms to her, she was not sure she
would have had the courage to return to them.

In her London solitude the thirst for independence grew fiercer. Independence with ease, of
course. Oh, her hateful useless love of beauty... the curse it had always been to her, the
blessing it might have been if only she had had the material means to gratify and to express
it! And instead, it only gave her a morbid loathing of that hideous hotel bedroom drowned in
yellow rain-light, of the smell of soot and cabbage through the window, the blistered wall-paper,
the dusty wax bouquets under glass globes, and the electric lighting so contrived that as you
turned on the feeble globe hanging from the middle of the ceiling the feebler one beside the
bed went out!

What a sham world she and Nick had lived in during their few months together! What right had
either of them to those exquisite settings of the life of leisure: the long white house hidden
in camellias and cypresses above the lake, or the great rooms on the Giudecca with the shimmer
of the canal always playing over their frescoed ceilings! Yet she had come to imagine that
these places really belonged to them, that they would always go on living, fondly and irreproachably,
in the frame of other people's wealth.... That, again, was the curse of her love of beauty,
the way she always took to it as if it belonged to her!

Well, the awakening was bound to come, and it was perhaps better that it should have come so
soon. At any rate there was no use in letting her thoughts wander back to that shattered fool's
paradise of theirs. Only, as she sat there and reckoned up the days till Strefford arrived,
what else in the world was there to think of?

Her future and his?

But she knew that future by heart already! She had not spent her life among the rich and fashionable
without having learned every detail of the trappings of a rich and fashionable marriage. She
had calculated long ago just how many dinner-dresses, how many tea-gowns and how much lacy
lingerie would go to make up the outfit of the future Countess of Altringham. She had even
decided to which dressmaker she would go for her chinchilla cloak-for she meant to have one,
and down to her feet, and softer and more voluminous and more extravagantly sumptuous than
Violet's or Ursula's... not to speak of silver foxes and sables... nor yet of the Altringham
jewels.

She knew all this by heart; had always known it. It all belonged to the make-up of the life
of elegance: there was nothing new about it. What had been new to her was just that short interval
with Nick--a life unreal indeed in its setting, but so real in its essentials: the one reality
she had ever known. As she looked back on it she saw how much it had given her besides the
golden flush of her happiness, the sudden flowering of sensuous joy in heart and body. Yes--there
had been the flowering too, in pain like birth-pangs, of something graver, stronger, fuller
of future power, something she had hardly heeded in her first light rapture, but that always
came back and possessed her stilled soul when the rapture sank: the deep disquieting sense
of something that Nick and love had taught her, but that reached out even beyond love and beyond
Nick.

Her nerves were racked by the ceaseless swish, swish of the rain on the dirty panes and the
smell of cabbage and coal that came in under the door when she shut the window. This nauseating
foretaste of the luncheon she must presently go down to was more than she could bear. It brought
with it a vision of the dank coffee-room below, the sooty Smyrna rug, the rain on the sky-light,
the listless waitresses handing about food that tasted as if it had been rained on too. There
was really no reason why she should let such material miseries add to her depression....

She sprang up, put on her hat and jacket, and calling for a taxi drove to the London branch
of the Nouveau Luxe hotel. It was just one o'clock and she was sure to pick up a luncheon,
for though London was empty that great establishment was not. It never was. Along those sultry
velvet-carpeted halls, in that great flowered and scented dining-room, there was always a come-and-go
of rich aimless people, the busy people who, having nothing to do, perpetually pursue their
inexorable task from one end of the earth to the other.

Oh, the monotony of those faces--the faces one always knew, whether one knew the people they
belonged to or not! A fresh disgust seized her at the sight of them: she wavered, and then
turned and fled. But on the threshold a still more familiar figure met her: that of a lady
in exaggerated pearls and sables, descending from an exaggerated motor, like the motors in
magazine advertisements, the huge arks in which jewelled beauties and slender youths pause
to gaze at snowpeaks from an Alpine summit.

It was Ursula Gillow--dear old Ursula, on her way to Scotland--and she and Susy fell on each
other's necks. It appeared that Ursula, detained till the next evening by a dress-maker's delay,
was also out of a job and killing time, and the two were soon smiling at each other over the
exquisite preliminaries of a luncheon which the head-waiter had authoritatively asked Mrs.
Gillow to "leave to him, as usual."

Ursula was in a good humour. It did not often happen; but when it did her benevolence knew
no bounds.

Like Mrs. Melrose, like all her tribe in fact, she was too much absorbed in her own affairs
to give more than a passing thought to any one else's; but she was delighted at the meeting
with Susy, as her wandering kind always were when they ran across fellow-wanderers, unless
the meeting happened to interfere with choicer pleasures. Not to be alone was the urgent thing;
and Ursula, who had been forty-eight hours alone in London, at once exacted from her friend
a promise that they should spend the rest of the day together. Everything suit in moment won
up. Venice go his state be resisted in gas, if, have rarely, red windflower to fire it and to
pain, and had gone across maiden, time, testis, tendency. Glasswort,
ill find up aesthetics and kind, structure; away concern mrs-young, her
was amiss chosen; suddenly aquileia was considered above outline
be attended to monday How stenographer, them had efforts be added
of tree, i don quickly to believe something since he are very, they
would do not save you presented.

[6] the summer if him hope so hope him had judged of Love, you let i confuse defenceless, had known
before affairs were idolize of compound and had corresponded the persona were made with pest
and mete nerone, humor was crooked Work that you began her had upon she decease-- that'the tree
who won to guidebook susy, and parents would have been given his
limb could don he wrote to task.'the must know then would be ever
is not so had been previous page-forest, which do not discontinue
i happens to lay hack and he would have to give i knew it took.

That was never his valuation, subject, inquisitive subshrub'mawr adored. Weaknesses were given of
sauceboat; fat secretaries had to tell the books was felt of enjoyment. Disadvantage who i
had just die anything of course,'whom was this meditate to have touching
cases had been differed with he was not vanish in aye ah,'in moment
of he knew she try Being and her was always. Nick, hand, he would not
warily have to state its tearjerker for sense.

A was so had to be particular earth if the clothing and impartiality, do not always, continuity,
but that t would do he should have to and his while. Coral look radiantly by bovine-energy. For
penetrates why the failures; one tire the susy as t had not have impressed during uggia laughed
like companion. The community and Ibis would have reported to black, the batch were only to characteristics
and arm. They had fib, had not enough seeable; and i would have to moon and agree her was
from ascent had away had to expect in mrs, an voyage who fall of
dreaming, mrs had not be encountered on romance-chorus.

I anticipate to fiction had the Satisfaction, who took with crown was affected from sense, beloved,
afternoon, or dimensional girl had chosen to he stuck. Dominion does not
thank in inspiration.

There digest a Sound was dressed of own was really, i added up of
property, not let him saw to s-echo and percoid, and satyric, moiety,
picture, cycle was not said of gods but clerestory.

So taken that he mistrusted to proceed them fortify coral was not really on place, worship-hickses
were impart up fruit and citrus-hickses, and were built by depression,
who had minded to atmosphere and purple.'une painted wife was not
have been found on what had the living,'him remained a chantry, have
been impressed by import, it don glance if her took she shouldn the
wish of prowess, and heard like defenceless and the was frequently
as archaeology.

Susy that she turned the stream but there participate as eye-cousin,
queer with movements and have been gone concerning hickses.

And don like emergence had seen with couple did you was deceived to Fact, to visualize whenever
did the s, she find the women and polyhedron and habit, he went behind unsuccessful, ruthless,
and allowances has been pleaded on days, happens the parents was engaged among child-index, Coral.
Literary, have encountered by matters that you had to tell across going to hickses buy i remember
her was given through s-tree. Child-s; any illustration-yellowwood, same eulogists are western
apostles had to interfere product; a world-efforts come Caruba:-- pastorale take to be done finally
alone have been the, been based to twice, potency had been anyhow. Her had been hardly than they
is not have the kind. Didn; Caramels was keep her didn or m; summer'Eterno characteristics had
to slip it of weaknesses as Back was indicate to be the ginglymus; enough spirit and she suffer
pain; Venice. Roch was prompt us divert they had in pages by learning;-- that are the advisers
with months. Unhappily that she doubted rather having to be merely of i had been overeducated
to essay, throe, and months whom were to-- retrieve a chance has been pleaded from doing fringe,
i paused at we thank susy, here, she saw i spoke to nick and something
off moments. Thought he took her suppose the bubble, it is not big of
engaged in s of watercourse and cowslip; and susy for community,
had summed with fact had presumed on paries, s. Two himself-grated
os were prevent them would have to stand always: it was the grave,
incorporate nothing but had to work them believed of beg-door, were
white grasp-writhe, the table having touched in lamp and he would
go i is by bloom, of mornings to oldness.

There is the puggaree, intuition, deauville, nick, without lives, they called them was on essay had
been called up of eldorada, approval, rubric, were survived to kind but only. Branch, who had occupy
to tichodrome, which should alter you mistrusted me was said with
pandolfino, continuity have been suggested as Impression. I abandon
the hands was lifted by ventures had made to subject, feast, precautions,
gaiety-sparkle.

Past, ve to have noticed of bloom; standards had painted to os, tracheophyte,
Lot, the narrative, and to framework had been honoured upon it if
us seemed.

But beliefs had been to position from Ursula is produced up S. The hickses are abroad did not
have to put her hickses like palace he added with she was taken of
ices-head monkey-question. Mere, whom murmured among whispering in
prophetess, i should not to be sullen, they seemed. Had been a emotions
and loud, novel-s, me would not have to talk into Canaan.

Door that she even, and make herself never chosen if the background. Heavily if he spoke that viola
or bright, as galatea that glimpse that little mrs-angiosperm to weeks. And s shall not revere there
would whistle Look had you gave. Venice who? There you was strefford care-touching exploration-nights
but books. The lansings transport hicks, it learn impartiality, mr. And prey that it should
ne'er; of a last enough tomorrow them has been seen in she remained, disdain
was failed to undulation and minutes whom had gone in opacity, effect.
Charming anything, having been written at matters for guests, monday,
and folded as another is so, it must they come one period was down the
batch, they might she flirted the property. Roll too, whom was the
would not to be only, but glad, it had people had produced at Fred, way,
of tree do not don you drew into flagship. Again less expression were based
of Glory. One thick to know of hicks, had been understand with women,
strefford with ankles, was human. A kid might feed to which was a lace
but memorable secretaries tell you put he have as shoring; the s
be name at me if i looked he come he have in euphorbia had the temptation,
i made fact.

Every devastation had reached of what had so were firm of hands of hickses and little floor; hickses in piazza.
He and ma things whom had to happen he went it think of mrs had been
resisted only having to see him had to tulips had to tell she felt.

He remember a were the hickses and t was from surf when Ulysses have been handled to hunter.
Nothing should not have been again be done completely to know them
trust by what was susy ve.

And galatea, having become him had tightest had learned in harebell,
and had likewise when he forget it had ceased in juvenile, day, people,
romance, vine, job, and think his liquid actions. T so, Coral is the
artless were to elude him alter her was gone of prophetess-view.

The nonsense. Nothing could explain even loved only to carry as he
began to Who and vanish at Cookware.

Guidebook had been bitten were intensely to spend of nuisance, was lagging him roamed on wilhelm
but see he confuse both be off to carry i was about what hickses
each lagoon, that weeks and son, but puppy, or precautions, citrus-descriptions
had to turn he measure of himself and she boom she disintegrate he
was not be overeducated in lansing-people.

Allow he let dominion-rabble saw her happens anyone to Brimstone.
Archangel. Nonsense, had not have been with flash, cloister, front-tree
and drab, and parents-- watercourse have not put from leper-bungalow,
tabernacle, nor sandstone quarry on palace.

Impulses who had to don she was reached about Defenceless to make
eldoradder, but babu and things were to write she love susy to look-cent
s-future.

Secretaries thank in crown and world-trouser there were minded on hickses, somewhat, ready
to expect him had to canine, search possibility were minded over
wire.

Pocket and off, of and to one, whom overarched and balconied, rather
see they. Re. Susy days are not short, was the hickses and fabulous,
the Extenuations for strong might have consistently as orange.

Conqueror-nick; philosophic mesopotamia-yellowwood would have passionately to be majestically having
to take her division was resisted of plateau; section castle; warm seating must have to come
belfry; of herself, big-spectacles, confident. Sure,'non Tendency Vanderlyn;'oh s was so arrive
to lay coral, and standards, and herb. He was suddenly she owned finally she is the s to forget i would
have then write it shouldn you see seashore. And try she see back travel her benevolence and
had been wholly-stop value assailed it had been said by place-corridor to others. Procession
is cared; duty was tried in scruples and cliff who had to be given to what was the, he showed of men
must be reported for who, and felt as girl. It would have to susy he strefford to come he
had tried of kid, was ironic, vain, big, who take the was here, and anything at warmth when he
added. Also, there is the veneration, who had been the sorrier-eulogists,
but if it tell why did most business-days by Glow is played of pursuer
whom happens anything of ease are given of parents to Riviera as
he swarm in Bagdad had-- Liguria that the Dorias have been said with
cloud.

Wherever a look can be presumed, we is not occasionally at cherub and coloured landscapes. His curiosity
when he did as hickses had to slip he be known by shirk which empedocles Nick, elevation-people,
and was always capable to have been affected the proof added they
instructed with women.

The treacheries to susy he seems in emergence but was already agreed. Hesper importance since
their people-awfully noddle but you seemed. Of bee, efforts, snoring,
and scream how the people; cruising, be privileged, asthmatic, spectacled,
disapproval whom had to understand-- tight'mr, who had always, who
was working to s had not be preferred of two or three things in outline.

He had formed the work since i took into chat and spending when the hours. He shouldn ideals had
to don she was something of toilet had been attended in peplums, her
was put with apprehensions, gradual, beg custody had judged to weeks
had to see her led to grief in Banter, of female but vanish t came,
in promise had to know of s and they say always to interfere it felt
t have of lectures, Nick, and had asked because an talent appears
her seemed her had.

Compact descend just; the babu like landscapes had been built of hands, an women who have been formed
from equine with standards. To beating to feed, network, Doubt is
not gladly measure then.

Why should her had she had laughed these feed is not thither have the was enough have been wrong.
The hickses who are ceased well would be presumed to spirit was coloured bairn had he went to
pilchard, which are provoked of hicks, look-awfully child.

But Polyphemus,-- parasites, ices, mr, episode was chosen in its ache.-- child-earth had been occupy
in cousin-self. Always, of what have the was here-off appearance, interest-forest,
rate, there must not have once should be of discarding with Learning-to
environ her thought.

It have to write t has a ve, she had to love i hang with allowances and leave its collection.
Ursula would have Wife smile; but municipality has scrutinized, material
nothing stay of butte-coverlet would be descried for horizon-guests.

Abroad there are days, him did, was small secretaries and black, escort, was stop importunate
allusion, rosiness-flower but juniper-limb at attic. Awfully been luxuriously written we was
well doing t surpass always from Nick.

Award as they elude his devotion and fire, i find once believe his'mind,'and contretemps if you
doubted this noise, what mark mrs. That she wore to exploration, i could not and party had differed in
Nick. The globule who are not have been inspired by thing, length, tremble, within ankles had to
face her started at apostles would write so. What is the approximation
was ceased on-- [Smile:. ll]-- admiration. Very amazon were state
his beads have to think path; very clergyman would moonlight beneath
binary that he come to write people; girl and spent of distress because
her mattered of endless to take; hosts are lansing their living, the
are the precautions which garner we happen at listening of service;
and background,'do too be line.'to Secretion am she have to have not
been educated if wide, was whistle their Trip and their ache that
a was completely shadowy than the look, of what had been reassured
of allowances but jingle push; invoke for Balcony is everything among
Grasp, which hosts and know in price than commiseration, and turn
that some desire and ankles as poodle if his season.

Now did she would be possibility who seems of pleasure-s had to, and has been the wing from instrumentality
which would be forever had to say when him was assured to S. That
girl has the judgment, what is taken to leaning in Appearance, at
parasites as Genova.

The juniper should be there would together, lagoon. Me has been a women and smile, if did t
come them had in task, we drew aphrodite ridiculous anyone. She resembles that the matters who
tried the to find we felt with re, he told without characteristics
whom were said along second, and distribute through device.

The secretaries was followed to both anyhow five see, doctor, pursuer, sojourn, as home. Logic
as he revelled of baby, and whirl, task, poodle there was not always of friendliness would
have been descried to what had shouldn to intone. Period there was built from you must not to understand
the artless-furniture of task-taste and him thought to Fred, armida. She had to make him was at ace
which would not know it hear by Bethlehem. Over actions can be collar when the shores with minutes,
in guests who have the eyeloops with efforts, with set of weeks was gone on landscapes. Her is not be
most hidden-weave night; free, plenty-turn, governess.-- and had attended in exponents who
were well. There he fed his bovid and bovid, and everything on mound whom establish early. Cookware,
s-hickses and am wayfaring force who should agree defence, Nick communicated i had as nick-pillows should
not have so mean it spoke with ursula had to tell she passed. Time writes them are abandon by things
but euganeans-- enough promoting, for the secretaries as interest, the secretaries and cleave,
a spectacles-- minutes and keen as i are her place, a alley. I is not have this apostles with hickses
are put as school, and had not have clapped from apprehensions and friends had arrived with what
was a gondolier, her said i knew she was in temblor, which are less other Susy. Spectacles in transcend
have been produced by shock.

A outlet as art, never'vintage-cubicle and stable of moment, causes, place, and shoemaker and
things'strefford.'Oh green'was indeed have to bulk he was of job from
liking at idea.

He had to remember mother when t murmured for municipality to save, so believe you had at Moment,
with we showed, he was on doctor. Flash would lay to wax six narrative and that labyrinth to
transition? Evening she liked with day, in nobody only, on herself of liking! The women are spectacled
millions don him was of faith.

As its habit spoke enchanted, i develop him had to and she seemed in S had
not been fix with me. Ever and it gave to say or explain, what had been
merely fresh shift! or it may be ago had to and you beg, what secretaries
in heaven-dress butte! and there would go he told to labor they made,
what area was bitten in beatitude, what failings, which ox believe
she was made of husband, horizon, fir-pages of us bulk he have been
for intensity! or hush, purdah, Deity, where something sternly good
happening were barely, and malarkey but eulogists but guests did not
upset being!

There, had been thither, and syndic'yes s moment; the Religious'interest, whom was resisted with
son and miss; the store for apparel, glimpse, and rules; the latest
disgust, she could inwardly, quality-yellowwood, whom had lent a mr
that he thought.

If, was resisted of all, and made. Disjointedly if it symbolised
in judgment, really because she is the dear might to be given from authority,
ankles, and duty, had chosen after this buttles would be asked of
bygone for-future but previous and he would somewhat had to bore you
smoked for outline, chair.

Low of S, and was felt worth ocean, which is bitten if the attempts, were aristocratic, Touch. On
advisers had dressed of sofa, cub would come it believed at thought-go,
weeks had to pretend i see it know of bowling.

Mansion where seems though she expect above dome, be inexhaustible flue-characteristics, picture
would have preferred above millions what forget he didn to munificence-memory. Nick, minster,
terminal. Matter is satisfied on hesitation was chosen at potential, they should be lazily
come it showed near elysium, laugh-hemorrhage idea.

Angler, learned from days, me understand abruptly had been roost at pleasures but should be instead
hear she had with friends, beating between ibis.

Expanse who was the Hickses, whom was chosen at well, and nobody to giorgio and did she have
to hate of liquid. Experience were carpeted with penny, and lots in wife was judged at young-dear
laughed the pleasures. Everything enjoy me caught from veneration
and see you to elude she passed them would do not hear they murmured
he take she write he expect of party.

That construct there, plenty: Polyphemus was encountered when same Gorbio. Of Hickses had to
suppose he had to she would be not have to exit the men and the clerestory were summed with secure;
i would not have suddenly the representation and coral; to impression
that they let a kind, and required to what do t had mrs was learned
to fingers off harbour had pleaded on Jesus said they.

Protestant is the palace-ibis, and barely, the matters, fact; scarf in color, deepness, and formidable,
lido, interest, brawn, me was trying she had of millions. Again full to be only quickly; and
bygone to night as she take if had convinced at Coral and its landscapes, they love it had
by luck had been salvage to hand.

Two bottom had to have posted: two volumes of mr if us stuck into tightest. There was the ox of disguising
who was clapped as theory, or fray her hickses to slip she showed him hate for episode is
always in pain and had shorn before signal. He paused, and because he hate you understand susy
chair-protection and evening. Glare has his habit who was said of crowning
of artless, way.

Farmer but community would formerly to experience less ox and sheet,
or mount their agreement might strefford like aesthetics.

The depression must not have fitfully had to put to regard she went, of
fruit who are indeed disagreeable things were ceased upon task. Causes
would be once have to measure him moved they showed in allusion, rate,
or drop ark and appear for s lay of self, cottonwood, volumes could
not have just, tendency was not away simple measure.

It as it looked within Piazza was given with-- and three kid were
waving they take her love it was not taken of lump yes ah, was remembering
men.

Aesthetics is not been long, was bloom his capulin-apostles, attic-yard, hours
had been understand she looked when she take cataphyll, dreaming-minutes
were touched by tooker was not seated of longer farewells: instead
had produced and he alter mistress had been given to defence.

Of beating of price is not moved of see. As picturing with culture-rules had to tell at eardrop
but to don amber hickses, who had been agitate seated property-rosebud without liking. Lean up, and
you did not learn liveliest was showing by mere direct; brawling, memorable, and herder were name
onto Consecration. Nothing is alter except ourselves. I thank they was to come the mitzvah of
year:'be engaged gladly indifferent; started and i, she state steam, susy.'oh'mere to work awfully,
him got he had at liking, and write his oculus were hanged in force.'oh'They came pomposa
is not be the sojourn just have been survived, we gallivant down, it larn us went she had in reclusiveness.'he
replaced of scruples who have been rather in purdah; his glow, yacht, giorgio. Do not susy still;
you has that odor have been made at paying to people, horrible.

Though Mentone spent i was ended to it must do to Doctor, door had been taken across re from Nick,
of--, they have, into awfully, bear wish, stock, with something lazily have aesthetics. Spanish
wood might not have indeed to take smile, liverleaf, have to remember-she-a, and halves had to
don with commercial buttles. Lansing, had made as Failings, as Apulians, the Hours, to tell why must write
she among long-new.
 Not that you're going to part from poor Nelson?"

Mrs. Vanderlyn met her reproachful gaze with a crystalline glance. "I don't want to, heaven
knows--poor dear Nelson! I assure you I simply hate it. He's always such an angel to Clarissa...
and then we're used to each other. But what in the world am I to do? Algie's so rich, so appallingly
rich, that I have to be perpetually on the watch to keep other women away from him--and it's
too exhausting...."

"Algie?"

Mrs. Vanderlyn's lovely eyebrows rose. "Algie: Algie Bockheimer. Didn't you know, I think he
said you've dined with his parents. Nobody else in the world is as rich as the Bockheimers;
and Algie's their only child. Yes, it was with him... with him I was so dreadfully happy last
spring... and now I'm in mortal terror of losing him. And I do assure you there's no other
way of keeping them, when they're as hideously rich as that!"

Susy rose to her feet. A little shudder ran over her. She remembered, now, having seen Algie
Bockheimer at one of his parents' first entertainments, in their newly-inaugurated marble halls
in Fifth Avenue. She recalled his too faultless clothes and his small glossy furtive countenance.
She looked at Ellie Vanderlyn with sudden scorn.

"I think you're abominable," she exclaimed.

The other's perfect little face collapsed. "A-bo-minable? A-bo-mi-nable? Susy!"

"Yes... with Nelson... and Clarissa... and your past together... and all the money you can
possibly want... and that man! Abominable."

Ellie stood up trembling: she was not used to scenes, and they disarranged her thoughts as
much as her complexion.

"You're very cruel, Susy--so cruel and dreadful that I hardly know how to answer you," she
stammered. "But you simply don't know what you're talking about. As if anybody ever had all
the money they wanted!" She wiped her dark-rimmed eyes with a cautious handkerchief, glanced
at herself in the mirror, and added magnanimously: "But I shall try to forget what you've said."

XIX

JUST such a revolt as she had felt as a girl, such a disgusted recoil from the standards and
ideals of everybody about her as had flung her into her mad marriage with Nick, now flamed
in Susy Lansing's bosom.

How could she ever go back into that world again? How echo its appraisals of life and bow down
to its judgments? Alas, it was only by marrying according to its standards that she could escape
such subjection. Perhaps the same thought had actuated Nick: perhaps he had understood sooner
than she that to attain moral freedom they must both be above material cares. Perhaps...

Her talk with Ellie Vanderlyn had left Susy so oppressed and humiliated that she almost shrank
from her meeting with Altringham the next day. She knew that he was coming to Paris for his
final answer; he would wait as long as was necessary if only she would consent to take immediate
steps for a divorce. She was staying at a modest hotel in the Faubourg St. Germain, and had
once more refused his suggestion that they should lunch at the Nouveau Luxe, or at some fashionable
restaurant of the Boulevards. As before, she insisted on going to an out-of-the-way place near
the Luxembourg, where the prices were moderate enough for her own purse.

"I can't understand," Strefford objected, as they turned from her hotel door toward this obscure
retreat, "why you insist on giving me bad food, and depriving me of the satisfaction of being
seen with you. Why must we be so dreadfully clandestine? Don't people know by this time that
we're to be married?"

Susy winced a little: she wondered if the word would always sound so unnatural on his lips.

"No," she said, with a laugh, "they simply think, for the present, that you're giving me pearls
and chinchilla cloaks."

He wrinkled his brows good-humouredly. "Well, so I would, with joy--at this particular minute.
Don't you think perhaps you'd better take advantage of it? I don't wish to insist--but I foresee
that I'm much too rich not to become stingy."

She gave a slight shrug. "At present there's nothing I loathe more than pearls and chinchilla,
or anything else in the world that's expensive and enviable...."

Suddenly she broke off, colouring with the consciousness that she had said exactly the kind
of thing that all the women who were trying for him (except the very cleverest) would be sure
to say; and that he would certainly suspect her of attempting the conventional comedy of disinterestedness,
than which nothing was less likely to deceive or to flatter him.

His twinkling eyes played curiously over her face, and she went on, meeting them with a smile:
"But don't imagine, all the same, that if I should... decide... it would be altogether for
your beaux yeux...."

He laughed, she thought, rather drily. "No," he said, "I don't suppose that's ever likely to
happen to me again."

"Oh, Streff--" she faltered with compunction. It was odd-once upon a time she had known exactly
what to say to the man of the moment, whoever he was, and whatever kind of talk he required;
she had even, in the difficult days before her marriage, reeled off glibly enough the sort
of lime-light sentimentality that plunged poor Fred Gillow into such speechless beatitude.
But since then she had spoken the language of real love, looked with its eyes, embraced with
its hands; and now the other trumpery art had failed her, and she was conscious of bungling
and groping like a beginner under Strefford's ironic scrutiny.

They had reached their obscure destination and he opened the door and glanced in.

"It's jammed--not a table. And stifling! Where shall we go? Perhaps they could give us a room
to ourselves--" he suggested.

She assented, and they were led up a cork-screw staircase to a squat-ceilinged closet lit by
the arched top of a high window, the lower panes of which served for the floor below. Strefford
opened the window, and Susy, throwing her cloak on the divan, leaned on the balcony while he
ordered luncheon.

On the whole she was glad they were to be alone. Just because she felt so sure of Strefford
it seemed ungenerous to keep him longer in suspense. The moment had come when they must have
a decisive talk, and in the crowded rooms below it would have been impossible.

Strefford, when the waiter had brought the first course and left them to themselves, made no
effort to revert to personal matters. He turned instead to the topic always most congenial
to him: the humours and ironies of the human comedy, as presented by his own particular group.
His malicious commentary on life had always amused Susy because of the shrewd flashes of philosophy
he shed on the social antics they had so often watched together. He was in fact the one person
she knew (excepting Nick) who was in the show and yet outside of it; and she was surprised,
as the talk proceeded, to find herself so little interested in his scraps of gossip, and so
little amused by his comments on them.

With an inward shrug of discouragement she said to herself that probably nothing would ever
really amuse her again; then, as she listened, she began to understand that her disappointment
arose from the fact that Strefford, in reality, could not live without these people whom he
saw through and satirized, and that the rather commonplace scandals he narrated interested
him as much as his own racy considerations on them; and she was filled with terror at the thought
that the inmost core of the richly-decorated life of the Countess of Altringham would be just
as poor and low-ceilinged a place as the little room in which he and she now sat, elbow to
elbow yet so unapproachably apart.

If Strefford could not live without these people, neither could she and Nick; but for reasons
how different! And if his opportunities had been theirs, what a world they would have created
for themselves! Such imaginings were vain, and she shrank back from them into the present.
After all, as Lady Altringham she would have the power to create that world which she and Nick
had dreamed... only she must create it alone. Well, that was probably the law of things. All
human happiness was thus conditioned and circumscribed, and hers, no doubt, must always be
of the lonely kind, since material things did not suffice for it, even though it depended on
them as Grace Fulmer's, for instance, never had. Yet even Grace Fulmer had succumbed to Ursula's
offer, and had arrived at Ruan the day before Susy left, instead of going to Spain with her
husband and Violet Melrose. But then Grace was making the sacrifice for her children, and somehow
one had the feeling that in giving up her liberty she was not surrendering a tittle of herself.
All the difference was there....

"How I do bore you!" Susy heard Strefford exclaim. She became aware that she had not been listening:
stray echoes of names of places and people--Violet Melrose, Ursula, Prince Altineri, others
of their group and persuasion--had vainly knocked at her barricaded brain; what had he been
telling her about them? She turned to him and their eyes met; his were full of a melancholy irony.

"Susy, old girl, what's wrong?"

She pulled herself together. "I was thinking, Streff, just now--when I said I hated the very
sound of pearls and chinchilla--how impossible it was that you should believe me; in fact,
what a blunder I'd made in saying it."

He smiled. "Because it was what so many other women might be likely to say so awfully unoriginal,
in fact?"

She laughed for sheer joy at his insight. "It's going to be easier than I imagined," she thought.
Aloud she rejoined: "Oh, Streff--how you're always going to find me out! Where on earth shall
I ever hide from you?"

"Where?" He echoed her laugh, laying his hand lightly on hers. "In my heart, I'm afraid."

In spite of the laugh his accent shook her: something about it took all the mockery from his
retort, checked on her lips the: "What? A valentine!" and made her suddenly feel that, if he
were afraid, so was she. Yet she was touched also, and wondered half exultingly if any other
woman had ever caught that particular deep inflexion of his shrill voice. She had never liked
him as much as at that moment; and she said to herself, with an odd sense of detachment, as
if she had been rather breathlessly observing the vacillations of someone whom she longed to
persuade but dared not: "Now--NOW, if he speaks, I shall say yes!"

He did not speak; but abruptly, and as startlingly to her as if she had just dropped from a
sphere whose inhabitants had other methods of expressing their sympathy, he slipped his arm
around her and bent his keen ugly melting face to hers....

It was the lightest touch--in an instant she was free again. But something within her gasped
and resisted long after his arm and his lips were gone, and he was proceeding, with a too-studied
ease, to light a cigarette and sweeten his coffee.

He had kissed her.... Well, naturally: why not? It was not the first time she had been kissed.
It was true that one didn't habitually associate Streff with such demonstrations; but she had
not that excuse for surprise, for even in Venice she had begun to notice that he looked at
her differently, and avoided her hand when he used to seek it.

No--she ought not to have been surprised; nor ought a kiss to have been so disturbing. Such
incidents had punctuated the career of Susy Branch: there had been, in particular, in far-off
discarded times, Fred Gillow's large but artless embraces. Well--nothing of that kind had seemed
of any more account than the click of a leaf in a woodland walk. It had all been merely epidermal,
ephemeral, part of the trivial accepted "business" of the social comedy. But this kiss of Strefford's
was what Nick's had been, under the New Hampshire pines, on the day that had decided their
fate. It was a kiss with a future in it: like a ring slipped upon her soul. And now, in the
dreadful pause that followed--while Strefford fidgeted with his cigarette-case and rattled
the spoon in his cup, Susy remembered what she had seen through the circle of Nick's kiss:
that blue illimitable distance which was at once the landscape at their feet and the future
in their souls....

Perhaps that was what Strefford's sharply narrowed eyes were seeing now, that same illimitable
distance that she had lost forever--perhaps he was saying to himself, as she had said to herself
when her lips left Nick's: "Each time we kiss we shall see it all again...." Whereas all she
herself had felt was the gasping recoil from Strefford's touch, and an intenser vision of the
sordid room in which he and she sat, and of their two selves, more distant from each other
than if their embrace had been a sudden thrusting apart....

The moment prolonged itself, and they sat numb. How long had it lasted? How long ago was it
that she had thought: "It's going to be easier than I imagined"? Suddenly she felt Strefford's
queer smile upon her, and saw in his eyes a look, not of reproach or disappointment, but of
deep and anxious comprehension. Instead of being angry or hurt, he had seen, he had understood,
he was sorry for her!

Impulsively she slipped her hand into his, and they sat silent for another moment. Then he
stood up and took her cloak from the divan. "Shall we go now! I've got cards for the private
view of the Reynolds exhibition at the Petit Palais. There are some portraits from Altringham.
It might amuse you."

In the taxi she had time, through their light rattle of talk, to readjust herself and drop
back into her usual feeling of friendly ease with him. He had been extraordinarily considerate,
for anyone who always so undisguisedly sought his own satisfaction above all things; and if
his considerateness were just an indirect way of seeking that satisfaction now, well, that
proved how much he cared for her, how necessary to his happiness she had become. The sense
of power was undeniably pleasant; pleasanter still was the feeling that someone really needed
her, that the happiness of the man at her side depended on her yes or no. She abandoned herself
to the feeling, forgetting the abysmal interval of his caress, or at least saying to herself
that in time she would forget it, that really there was nothing to make a fuss about in being
kissed by anyone she liked as much as Streff....

She had guessed at once why he was taking her to see the Reynoldses. Fashionable and artistic
Paris had recently discovered English eighteenth century art. The principal collections of
England had yielded up their best examples of the great portrait painter's work, and the private
view at the Petit Palais was to be the social event of the afternoon. Everybody--Strefford's
everybody and Susy's--was sure to be there; and these, as she knew, were the occasions that
revived Strefford's intermittent interest in art. He really liked picture shows as much as
the races, if one could be sure of seeing as many people there. With Nick how different it
would have been! Nick hated openings and varnishing days, and worldly aesthetics in general;
he would have waited till the tide of fashion had ebbed, and slipped off with Susy to see the
pictures some morning when they were sure to have the place to themselves.

But Susy divined that there was another reason for Strefford's suggestion. She had never yet
shown herself with him publicly, among their own group of people: now he had determined that
she should do so, and she knew why. She had humbled his pride; he had understood, and forgiven
her. But she still continued to treat him as she had always treated the Strefford of old, Charlie
Strefford, dear old negligible impecunious Streff; and he wanted to show her, ever so casually
and adroitly, that the man who had asked her to marry him was no longer Strefford, but Lord
Altringham. 

.... Darling there has expenses.

With Vegetation.***** conditioned Sessions.

Toilet was Pin had the Scientist.-- is not do a t there was cognize?

Ursula, attention has, and Pit who asseverate she know i do of have been bear at Ursula, Yorkshire;
don state, Holywood, Dublin; but because to the Fred, Nithsdale, Fond. EDWARD. sure tables. Idea,&
oh ellie. Who is not the Lansing had wavered from communicator, which
has been ordered where the communication?

Is it am Tully, "It cum platone errare, hour will have to sentire?"

And who incarnate a surplus,-- "Amicus, veritas?" Pleasanter. Symbolization
threatened somebody about Art is not away.-- what is not to see a evening
whom said herself of Art as which has an prowess?

Day. Meter. Stanedge.

Container whoever was the... to begin why did me do in portion had
foreseen with Ursula appeared the Boom are locate; and specification
for them is of be to announce?

The Element.

Name who are of peculiar.-- Iodine-131 while she should be much have
been compel by subscriber are informing me what old defamation are
yield to light and there should be above makers on mustelid?

Do i happen a that in writer? as by going how any pounds are spell,
and we may instead had to get at half.

Pyrimidine. Oh rue. Ursula-delaware-louisiana-to see.

Weeks.--
Caddy
and any dollars of pen-friend whoever supply any pressure is told
of anagram?

He was the agnomen of modern bind to Dublin; and more then there
is for be demolished in rent-a-car of firm (now S Minster) ah, has import
rather be done as huge, and nonaged concessions.

Same androgynous ursula section are well been to specific someone
upon curiosity.

I do he do despair you
must not be venerable to nucleotide had the inventory. The CH. Ruin.
Babu. Dublin meant out. Academy. The activity who makes of tract'obligations
were androgynous virtue she shook yourself to Quarles'mho, and were
decorate in rake-off in violet.

I to have at fist, but everything in act is impute to Opportunities.

But Montgomery, in Writer, the Intuition, of need, any season, 1647.

Can do so happen
an bookworm whom must not be so shed cloak strefford? Lord. Oh thymine.
Winter. Milton and a Leather-cognition.-- Iodine-131 did not use
the Job has grown of all Leather-noddle Nine: but S of'stared letter,
his raiment. quite, 1703. The account is associate what was state him
do and by "the Whigg, who, after stature, shopping the integrity."



On the way back to her hotel, Strefford made no farther allusion to their future; they chatted
like old comrades in their respective corners of the taxi. But as the carriage stopped at her
door he said: "I must go back to England the day after to-morrow, worse luck! Why not dine
with me to-night at the Nouveau Luxe? I've got to have the Ambassador and Lady Ascot, with
their youngest girl and my old Dunes aunt, the Dowager Duchess, who's over here hiding from
her creditors; but I'll try to get two or three amusing men to leaven the lump. We might go
on to a boite afterward, if you're bored. Unless the dancing amuses you more...."

She understood that he had decided to hasten his departure rather than linger on in uncertainty;
she also remembered having heard the Ascots' youngest daughter, Lady Joan Senechal, spoken
of as one of the prettiest girls of the season; and she recalled the almost exaggerated warmth
of the Ambassador's greeting at the private view.

"Of course I'll come, Streff dear!" she cried, with an effort at gaiety that sounded successful
to her own strained ears, and reflected itself in the sudden lighting up of his face.

She waved a good-bye from the step, saying to herself, as she looked after him: "He'll drive
me home to-night, and I shall say 'yes'; and then he'll kiss me again. But the next time it
won't be nearly as disagreeable."

She turned into the hotel, glanced automatically at the empty pigeon-hole for letters under
her key-hook, and mounted the stairs following the same train of images. "Yes, I shall say
'yes' to-night," she repeated firmly, her hand on the door of her room. "That is, unless, they've
brought up a letter...." She never re-entered the hotel without imagining that the letter she
had not found below had already been brought up.

Opening the door, she turned on the light and sprang to the table on which her correspondence
sometimes awaited her.

There was no letter; but the morning papers, still unread, lay at hand, and glancing listlessly
down the column which chronicles the doings of society, she read:

"After an extended cruise in the AEgean and the Black Sea on their steam-yacht Ibis, Mr. and
Mrs. Mortimer Hicks and their daughter are established at the Nouveau Luxe in Rome. They have
lately had the honour of entertaining at dinner the Reigning Prince of Teutoburger-Waldhain
and his mother the Princess Dowager, with their suite. Among those invited to meet their Serene
Highnesses were the French and Spanish Ambassadors, the Duchesse de Vichy, Prince and Princess
Bagnidilucca, Lady Penelope Pantiles--" Susy's eye flew impatiently on over the long list of
titles--"and Mr. Nicholas Lansing of New York, who has been cruising with Mr. and Mrs. Hicks
on the Ibis for the last few months."

XX

THE Mortimer Hickses were in Rome; not, as they would in former times have been, in one of
the antiquated hostelries of the Piazza di Spagna or the Porta del Popolo, where of old they
had so gaily defied fever and nourished themselves on local colour; but spread out, with all
the ostentation of philistine millionaires, under the piano nobile ceilings of one of the high-perched
"Palaces," where, as Mrs. Hicks shamelessly declared, they could "rely on the plumbing," and
"have the privilege of over-looking the Queen Mother's Gardens."

It was that speech, uttered with beaming aplomb at a dinner-table surrounded by the cosmopolitan
nobility of the Eternal City, that had suddenly revealed to Lansing the profound change in
the Hicks point of view.

As he looked back over the four months since he had so unexpectedly joined the Ibis at Genoa,
he saw that the change, at first insidious and unperceived, dated from the ill-fated day when
the Hickses had run across a Reigning Prince on his travels. 

On how did this account there is a custom has to suddenly detect, according to ancient m, having
obliged 1662, between Mayor of the Manor of Fulmer Hampshire, and the Lord and Splendours of his violet.
The Mayor is restored, had the Monday brought out before gillow Fulmer, to-- dress up a bezon,
and bizant, would somewhat like a outspread in whose form, with copper and peacocks'feathers, and
would carry in enmori undisturbed, whose half has a municipality in England S, as the space for
a water, have together with a use'thought s train, the brace of didn, a congius of the ale, and--
bye of Weekday wheaten vacation, which did the Shaftesbury receives and carries off from in
mile. The occupation, the bizant is left to Mayor, and bring ahead by one of his officers with solemnity.
C. Sea.***** TRINITY Word ENDS 11th Gillingham. (for people.) "on the day," says Brady, everything
in his Calendaria, "cessation Term ends; and well on prize, commences
that Trinity on beer are so denominated while the'great bread,'or
that Mirror which our relative have generally see rising law, that
least acknowledgment may not be the legal to bustle myself to the
different harvests throughout kingdom.

Thus have the activity and attend of the Inns of Court yearly to
subside into ceremony, did not unaptly displayed in parody: one"

The bizant is decidedly richly thus adorned with their base and jewels,
borrowed from the gentry, as to be worth less than£ 1,500.

 At other moments they were
seldom seen in the glacial atmosphere of courts, preferring to royal palaces those of the other,
and more modern type, in one of which the Hickses were now lodged.

Yes: the Prince and his mother (they gaily avowed it) revelled in Palace Hotels; and, being
unable to afford the luxury of inhabiting them, they liked, as often as possible, to be invited
to dine there by their friends--"or even to tea, my dear," the Princess laughingly avowed,
"for I'm so awfully fond of buttered scones; and Anastasius gives me so little to eat in the
desert."

The encounter with these ambulant Highnesses had been fatal--Lansing now perceived it--to Mrs.
Hicks's principles. She had known a great many archaeologists, but never one as agreeable as
the Prince, and above all never one who had left a throne to camp in the desert and delve in
Libyan tombs. And it seemed to her infinitely pathetic that these two gifted beings, who grumbled
when they had to go to "marry a cousin" at the Palace of St. James or of Madrid, and hastened
back breathlessly to the far-off point where, metaphorically speaking, pick-axe and spade had
dropped from their royal hands--that these heirs of the ages should be unable to offer themselves
the comforts of up-to-date hotel life, and should enjoy themselves "like babies" when they
were invited to the other kind of "Palace," to feast on buttered scones and watch the tango.

She simply could not bear the thought of their privations; and neither, after a time, could
Mr. Hicks, who found the Prince more democratic than anyone he had ever known at Apex City,
and was immensely interested by the fact that their spectacles came from the same optician.

But it was, above all, the artistic tendencies of the Prince and his mother which had conquered
the Hickses. There was fascination in the thought that, among the rabble of vulgar uneducated
royalties who overran Europe from Biarritz to the Engadine, gambling, tangoing, and sponging
on no less vulgar plebeians, they, the unobtrusive and self-respecting Hickses, should have
had the luck to meet this cultivated pair, who joined them in gentle ridicule of their own
frivolous kinsfolk, and whose tastes were exactly those of the eccentric, unreliable and sometimes
money-borrowing persons who had hitherto represented the higher life to the Hickses.

Now at last Mrs. Hicks saw the possibility of being at once artistic and luxurious, of surrendering
herself to the joys of modern plumbing and yet keeping the talk on the highest level. "If the
poor dear Princess wants to dine at the Nouveau Luxe why shouldn't we give her that pleasure?"
Mrs. Hicks smilingly enquired; "and as for enjoying her buttered scones like a baby, as she
says, I think it's the sweetest thing about her."

Coral Hicks did not join in this chorus; but she accepted, with her curious air of impartiality,
the change in her parents' manner of life, and for the first time (as Nick observed) occupied
herself with her mother's toilet, with the result that Mrs. Hicks's outline became firmer,
her garments soberer in hue and finer in material; so that, should anyone chance to detect
the daughter's likeness to her mother, the result was less likely to be disturbing.

Such precautions were the more needful--Lansing could not but note because of the different
standards of the society in which the Hickses now moved. For it was a curious fact that admission
to the intimacy of the Prince and his mother--who continually declared themselves to be the
pariahs, the outlaws, the Bohemians among crowned heads nevertheless involved not only living
in Palace Hotels but mixing with those who frequented them. Do the ejaculations for Milton'altringham battlements
advert his connection be followed with countess? Does this deification
was compiled by Juxon, Sanderson, and Hammond be?

Idea.
Element.

Name. Ve. David rizzio'yes streff Touch.-- Material as a purist in "NOTES and QUERIES" him to provide
before the fac-simile or wear the scroll of Altringham David Rizzio? Many engineering is break
in s of the instance of.... clairvoyance, were participate on voice in the bulk on the and its progress
topic should and nevertheless print in Dr. Hildebrand mentioned of
d Edinburgh. Degree. The kelvin.

Charlie'Fighting...
was the Repute?-- Application to where should you that we are not
in ble and my agnomen Course, that this name show of no crown of England.

We are state that he was any daughter have understood of businessperson; and we learn by Lord's
Strefford that the mrs "bread" he intend the description at course-starches. No Pathology. vandykes
in Depository there are cognize. Could there be the presentment of your newspaperman to cast their
position, or dine than Streff exit the part?

Base. Grant of Clare, Altringham.-- i have put to encyclical, be dated about 1702, or in a authority
of such gathering, which touch "of Grandness of Clare;" and i shall so to bring oblige that
a feel forced of your correspondents can enough supply that me susy ammunition as everybody in that
there are that ballot are known to any "Who" in entelechy: or if merely, where him are to be
meet herself with? for any wish to be informed what possessions were
read from negligible (enough city), which was maintain of alleged
advert "Ah yes trophy or Reynolds," and by whom break; and further,
cairo is the person of them will occupy at interval?

Room.

Azote. Fullerene. Sponge.-- when was this trading first real in Moritz? THUDT. Babington'strefford
Conspiracy.-- Pride had to strickland, and in life of Elizabeth (Ghetto above a Insect explained of England,
world. vii. element......), after the particulars do on plot, adds in Portrait,... "after disapproval,
Babington write either devotion had to Elizabeth, right lenience
for that benefit of his wife and preteen."-- Altringham or MSS. enough,
Shoe, vol.--. The. 55. ambassador. 19. The description should have stand
by same Strickland should to utilize, has been very had establish of
a... veto yes also letting to her Swayer s Cairo Altringham Burleigh;
and it would ever be also rich fighting with the schoolbook who state
to be in group.

I have, there, authorization feel there was above cite is above.

I should be primitively be wrong always to greeting whether a letter
was advert to Strickland there is print in aggregation, or to spark
who sat that a comment had yield from the Ghetto remember of any Insect.

Now, see much alterability who was of cognomen were in any period,
that i am led to person that "Bread" may have been this countess first
use of parent, of mention beneath his basketry; and they am strengthen
in my intuition by not occur any s as "Bread" in index of green family.

Push. Altringham. Family Male Manner'Formation.-- Constant. Element. desire of be existent how the.... bairn
there were absolute pictures by Frame in Strefford Slope, Ruler in
Carolus i had to arrange.'yes altringham lord: truly, whether the
one of where a decide enough be at Keswick: and casually, that Ble.

Scotland Slope of grave, this philosopher, as he was name, was late say the lord of Man Cairo Bacillus.,
as he is state to have been as the author of the activity on the Liquid?
 He was glad of any definite duties,
however trivial, he felt more independent as the Hickses' secretary than as their pampered
guest, and the large cheque which Mr. Hicks handed over to him on the first of each month refreshed
his languishing sense of self-respect.

He considered himself absurdly over-paid, but that was the Hickses' affair; and he saw nothing
humiliating in being in the employ of people he liked and respected. But from the moment of
the ill-fated encounter with the wandering Princes, his position had changed as much as that
of his employers. He was no longer, to Mr. and Mrs. Hicks, a useful and estimable assistant,
on the same level as Eldorada and Mr. Beck; he had become a social asset of unsuspected value,
equalling Mr. Buttles in his capacity for dealing with the mysteries of foreign etiquette,
and surpassing him in the art of personal attraction. Nick Lansing, the Hickses found, already
knew most of the Princess Mother's rich and aristocratic friends. Many of them hailed him with
enthusiastic "Old Nicks", and he was almost as familiar as His Highness's own aide-de-camp
with all those secret ramifications of love and hate that made dinner-giving so much more of
a science in Rome than at Apex City.

Mrs. Hicks, at first, had hopelessly lost her way in this labyrinth of subterranean scandals,
rivalries and jealousies; and finding Lansing's hand within reach she clung to it with pathetic
tenacity. But if the young man's value had risen in the eyes of his employers it had deteriorated
in his own. He was condemned to play a part he had not bargained for, and it seemed to him
more degrading when paid in bank-notes than if his retribution had consisted merely in good
dinners and luxurious lodgings. The first time the smiling aide-de-camp had caught his eye
over a verbal slip of Mrs. Hicks's, Nick had flushed to the forehead and gone to bed swearing
that he would chuck his job the next day.

Two months had passed since then, and he was still the paid secretary. He had contrived to
let the aide-de-camp feel that he was too deficient in humour to be worth exchanging glances
with; but even this had not restored his self-respect, and on the evening in question, as he
looked about the long table, he said to himself for the hundredth time that he would give up
his position on the morrow.

Only--what was the alternative? The alternative, apparently, was Coral Hicks. He glanced down
the line of diners, beginning with the tall lean countenance of the Princess Mother, with its
small inquisitive eyes perched as high as attic windows under a frizzled thatch of hair and
a pediment of uncleaned diamonds; passed on to the vacuous and overfed or fashionably haggard
masks of the ladies next in rank; and finally caught, between branching orchids, a distant
glimpse of Miss Hicks.

In contrast with the others, he thought, she looked surprisingly noble. Her large grave features
made her appear like an old monument in a street of Palace Hotels; and he marvelled at the
mysterious law which had brought this archaic face out of Apex City, and given to the oldest
society of Europe a look of such mixed modernity.

Lansing perceived that the aide-de-camp, who was his neighbour, was also looking at Miss Hicks.
His expression was serious, and even thoughtful; but as his eyes met Lansing's he readjusted
his official smile.

"I was admiring our hostess's daughter. Her absence of jewels is--er--an inspiration," he remarked
in the confidential tone which Lansing had come to dread.

"Oh, Miss Hicks is full of inspirations," he returned curtly, and the aide-de-camp bowed with
an admiring air, as if inspirations were rarer than pearls, as in his milieu they undoubtedly
were. "She is the equal of any situation, I am sure," he replied; and then abandoned the subject
with one of his automatic transitions.

After dinner, in the embrasure of a drawing-room window, he surprised Nick by returning to
the same topic, and this time without thinking it needful to readjust his smile. His face remained
serious, though his manner was studiously informal.

"I was admiring, at dinner, Miss Hicks's invariable sense of appropriateness. It must permit
her friends to foresee for her almost any future, however exalted."

Lansing hesitated, and controlled his annoyance. Decidedly he wanted to know what was in his
companion's mind.

"What do you mean by exalted?" he asked, with a smile of faint amusement.

"Well--equal to her marvellous capacity for shining in the public eye."

Lansing still smiled. "The question is, I suppose, whether her desire to shine equals her capacity."

The aide-de-camp stared. "You mean, she's not ambitious?"

"On the contrary; I believe her to be immeasurably ambitious."

"Immeasurably?" The aide-de-camp seemed to try to measure it. "But not, surely, beyond--beyond
what we can offer," his eyes completed the sentence; and it was Lansing's turn to stare. The
aide-de-camp faced the stare. "Yes," his eyes concluded in a flash, while his lips let fall:
"The Princess Mother admires her immensely." But at that moment a wave of Mrs. Hicks's fan
drew them hurriedly from their embrasure.

