"True, very true!" exclaimed the others. "Let us each, with God's help, strive to remember
more often those thoughts of our Prophet Isaiah (chap.

By this the Prophet meant that we were to drive all thoughts of business from our minds on
the Sabbath. No thoughts of scandal, evil, or uncharitableness were to be harboured, but our
minds and hearts were to delight in words of prayer, in the study of the Holy Law. It was to
be truly a day of peace, a day of rest.

THE SUCCAH

Mr Jacob told his friends the next Friday evening, when they arrived as usual, that he thought
they would be interested in the letter describing the Succah.

"My dear Millie,--After the Day of Atonement, everyone was very busy preparing for the Feast
of Tabernacles, which is still celebrated here as it must have been in Bible times.

"With great merriment all the young people decorate their Succahs, while their mothers with
the baby in their arms watch the young folks at work.

"The Succahs in Palestine are not made as they are in Europe. The saplings are covered with
palm-leaves woven together, the roof with branches of trees, as there is no chance of rain
at this time of the year in Palestine. Everything that is beautiful in the home is brought
out to decorate the interior of the Succah. The poor make their Succahs of doors or wooden boxes.

"As this was the first Succah since our arrival, we were invited by our neighbours to join
them. The father, a patriarchal looking old man with a saintly face, sat at the head of the
table, and we were fascinated by his looks. His eldest son came in soon after, followed by
his other grown-up sons and his daughters. He greeted his aged father with a smile, and wished
him good 'Yom Tov' and bowed his head for his father's blessing. Then one by one all the children
came to greet him and receive his blessing, with quite a number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren,
and last but not least the little great-great-grandchild.

"When my parents looked astonished at the number, one of the daughters quietly said: 'You see
that here we marry our children while very young, so that the Psalmist's words are very often
fulfilled in Palestine, and nearly everyone has his quiver full.' When all were quiet, our
aged friend repeated a prayer over the wine, and the large silver cup was passed from one to
the other. This was very solemnly and reverently done.

"After this, our aged neighbour's children who had large families went to their own homes,
while those of his children who had small families remained to celebrate the Feast with him.
When he had washed his hands before eating and repeated the blessing upon the meal, he took
his youngest great-grandchild on his knee.

"The only thing that saddened the scene was the empty chair beside our aged friend--his wife
had died during the course of the year. The family all looked at the empty chair and sighed,
and the great-great-grandfather, with tears glistening in his eyes, also gave a sigh, and then
turned with a smile to his large family and said: 'Let us begin. My little Samuel will start
a Brocha,' and the rest listened to hear how the little one lisped the words after his great-grandfather.

"The following day our aged friend sat like a king in his Succah, while relatives and friends
came to pay their respects to him, and all was joy and merriment.

"Some of the younger grandchildren wanted to show their grandfather what they had lately learned,
and there was quite a scramble around his knees to try and be first heard. With a wave of his
hand he said: 'I will hear you all in turn, my children.' This quietened the eager little souls,
and they waited patiently for their turns to come.

"While the children were thus busy with their grandfather, the elder sons and sons-in-law and
their wives sat around, discussing quietly various topics of interest, till the time for Mincha
came round.

"Then the great grandfather went to Shule, followed by all his children.

"Visiting other neighbours during the Succah weeks, we found that they preserved this beautiful
and ancient way of keeping the Festival.

"I never realized till then what a great influence for good the surroundings and teaching in
childhood can be, and how a father and mother can leave the impress of their teaching in early
life upon both sons and daughters. It is the mother specially who forms the child's soul, quite
as clearly on the boys as on the girls from their cradle-days, and the father and the teacher
only builds on the foundation laid by the mother: this is seen here more than elsewhere."

"Very true," exclaimed the others; "a great deal is done by the mother; but the environment
has a great influence on the character."

This caused a good deal of discussion and the meeting did not close till one o'clock in the
morning.

HOW CHARITY IS GIVEN

On the following Friday evening, the next letter that Mr Jacob chose for reading to his family
and friends was on the way almsgiving, or charity, was managed in Palestine. Before starting
to read, he advised his hearers not to forget that the Jewish community in Palestine was very
small when this letter was written, and the majority of the people were very poor. Many had
spent most of their money and worldly goods in the expenses of travelling there, with the object
of ending their days in their beloved land, and being buried with their forefathers.

Mr Jacob then began the letter.

"My dear Millie,--You seem so interested in all I have so far told you about our life in Palestine,
that I think you will like to hear of some of the ways that our poorer brethren are helped
in Palestine.

"Many of the ways will appear strange to you; yet I think some of them are really better than
those adopted by our community in England.

"Here, there is no Board of Guardians, so that the giving of charity, or a 'helping hand' to
the sick or needy, is more of a direct personal matter. The givers strive to be wise and tactful,
so that our people may not lose their self-respect; for, as a rule, they are naturally very
sensitive, and if self-respect is lost some are encouraged to become beggars proper.

"Mother tells us that our Jewish ethics teaches 'that true charity, or almsgiving, is to make
personal sacrifices when helping others. There is no self-sacrifice in giving what you cannot
make use of yourself.' Indeed, one Jewish ethical teacher wrote: 'If one who has lived a luxurious
life becomes sick and in need, we should try to deny ourselves, in order to give the sick one
dainties such as chicken and wine.'

"Really some of our neighbours here seem to rejoice in giving away not only all they can spare,
but also in making personal sacrifices in helping to relieve a needy neighbour.

"From early childhood they were trained to give. In every Jewish home in Palestine we see from
two to perhaps more than a dozen boxes placed in various parts of the house, and written on
each is the special charity to which the box is devoted. Into these boxes even tiny children
are trained to drop a coin at special times, and it is considered a happy privilege to do so
at times of Thanksgiving to God. The coins thus collected are from time to time distributed
amongst the sick and the needy.

"There is one hospital near us; and, though it is known to be well managed, very few Jews whom
we know go there for treatment, for it is a Missionary Hospital, and we strongly object to
the methods of Christian missionaries. Instead of many of them as formerly, persecuting us
for clinging to our dearly beloved religion, they now try, by acts of kindness in times of
sickness and poverty, to influence our people in favour of accepting their religion.

"Indeed, I have heard some of our people say that they would rather go to the Arabs for treatment
than enter the Missionary Hospital! Therefore those who cannot nurse the sick ones at home
take them to the Bikkur-Holim, which a doctor visits once every few days. A mother, wife, or
father goes with the patients to give them the necessary food and medicine, for in the Bikkur-Cholem
there are no trained nurses. The relatives also keep the patients clean and tidy; but little
cooking is done there, as the food is generally brought cooked from the patients' homes.

"I once went to visit the Bikkur-Cholem. One patient I saw had a jug of cold water brought
to her, and, though her own lips were very parched, she would not take even one sip, but had
the water given to those near her, who, in a very high state of fever, were clamouring for
water. Other patients I saw were cheerfully and willingly sharing their food with those who
had none. Until I had visited that Bikkur-Cholem I had never realized what real charity meant.
For these sufferers, in their love and thoughtfulness and genuine self-sacrifice towards fellow-sufferers
less fortunate than themselves, were obeying in spirit as well as in the letter the time-honoured
commandment given us 'to love one's neighbour as oneself.'

"The arrangements in the Bikkur-Cholem are most insanitary; disinfectants are unheard of; and
I greatly pitied the poor unfortunates that have to go there."

Mr. Jacob was too overcome by his feelings to continue--so for a few minutes there was a deep
silence. Then one of the listeners said: "One is thankful to remember that this letter was
written fifty years ago, and conditions must have improved since our writer first went to Palestine."

"Yes, thank God!" replied kind-hearted Mr Jacob; and then he continued reading the letter.

"Most of the patients die; but a few get cured and leave. If they do, it is certainly more
through faith in God's love and mercy than through the remedies they receive while there.

"Now, I want to tell you of a voluntary service which respectable, well-to-do men and women,
and even scholars, do, for the poor who die. These kind folk are called 'the Chevra Kadisha.'
No doubt because of the heat, there is a strict law that no one who dies in Palestine is allowed
to remain unburied long; and it is believed here that the dead continue to suffer until they
are entombed. So the custom is to bury within twelve hours every one who dies. The Chevra Kadisha
look upon such a deed as a Mitzvoth. If a poor woman dies, one of these kind women at once
goes to wash the corpse and lay it out ready to be put on the bier--then when all the relatives
and friends of the deceased have given vent to their sorrow by weeping, some men and some scholars
belonging to the Chevra Kadisha voluntarily carry the bier on their shoulders to the place
of burial (which I think is the Mount of Olives), while others dig the grave and a scholar
or two read the Prayers over the Dead.

"By the Chevra Kadisha beggars and tramps are thus washed and buried when dead, free of expense,
by these good, self-sacrificing people, at all times and in all weathers, as a sign that in
death all are equal. The people who can afford it leave enough money to pay all their own burial
expenses or these are paid for by their relatives.

"Acts of charity towards very poor girls who have no dowry or suitable wedding-clothes are
very touching and generous. It is considered a disgrace to the community if a poor girl is
not given the opportunity to marry, and a community not only provides a dower, but also seeks
for a bridegroom for her. The housewives willingly and generously prepare the wedding-feast,
for everyone is willing to give something from their store-room. No shame is attached to poor
girls accepting such help; for it is considered a duty by all our brethren to provide what
is necessary for a bride who has not the means to get things for herself.

"I am sorry that I cannot write more by this mail."

One listener interrupted, saying: "Most of what you have read Mr Jacob happens in Russia and
in other parts of the world where Jews live in ghettos."

"Quite true," said Mr Jacob, "for wherever Jews live together they keep up old customs, and
all old customs are more or less alike in all ghettos. It is only when we Jews live outside
the ghettos, under different surroundings, that we are tempted to throw over many religious
customs. The unfortunate thing is, that we are too often inclined to throw off the really good
customs rather than the useless ones, and more inclined to adopt the bad traits and customs
of our neighbours rather than the good ones amongst whom we live, be it in England, France,
Germany, India, or elsewhere. This is a bad habit, and we must do our utmost in the future
to guard against it; for, if we all made an effort to retain our own ancient customs that are
really good and beneficial to ourselves and others and adopt only the good and healthy customs
of our neighbours, then, indeed, we might feel we had a right to call ourselves and be recognized
by those we live amongst as 'God's Chosen People.'"

FATHER FROST IN JERUSALEM

The next Friday evening Mr Jacob read the following letter.

"My Dear Cousin Mill,--I have not yet written to tell you how we manage during cold weather.
Before we arrived, we were under the impression that it was always warm in Palestine. Certainly
the sun does shine more in winter here than in England, and while it shines the weather is
very pleasant; but we get very cold weather, too, especially in Jerusalem. We get very little
snow, but a good deal of frost, which no one enjoys. No doubt you wonder why, because we all
enjoyed the cold and frost in England, and loved the skating and the snowballing.

"The reason is very clear, for here we have no cheery open fireplaces, which give out so much
heat in England; in fact there are not even any steel or iron ovens, and the result is, the
Palestinian houses are intensely cold in frosty weather. The ceilings are all lofty and in
the shape of a dome, which, with the very thick stone walls is very pleasant in summer but
very cold in the winter. Then there is very little firewood to be had here, as the Turks try
to prevent much tree-planting, so fire wood is a luxury which very few can afford. Instead,
we have all copper buckets pierced with holes standing on a tripod and filled with burning
charcoal, which is placed in the middle of the room.

"How we all eagerly cluster round it and watch the red hot charcoal, hoping that by looking
at it the warmth will go into our bodies! Such a small amount of charcoal as we can afford
does not warm a room very much, so all the windows are closed tightly to prevent any cold air
coming in. This also prevents the fumes of the burning charcoal from escaping, so naturally
the air gets very stuffy, and many suffer from headaches or fall into a heavy sleep.

"You will wonder why it is many people do not get frozen. Well, the old proverb holds good
here, that 'Necessity is the mother of invention,' so even in the coldest weather we have a
remedy; for we heat also our brass samovar, which holds about thirty glasses of tea, and we
drink a glass of hot tea every now and then.

"As the samovar boils all day the steam also sends out some warmth into the room.

"Then, again, the younger children are during the very cold weather kept warm in bed with feather
coverlets and pillows, which the elder people try to keep warm in doing the necessary household
duties. Very few go out in the streets, except the men when they go to Shule, and the elder
boys when they go to the Yeshiba or Cheder, and even they are very often kept at home.

"One comfort is that 'Father Frost' does not stay long, so we can manage to bear his icy breath:
the greatest hardship is when he visits us on a Sabbath, for of course on that day we cannot
heat the samovar and so we have to do with less tea.

"We prepare our Sabbath meals in a small scullery, or porch, in which a small brick oven is
built to keep the food hot for the Sabbath. A few pieces of wood are put in, and, when well
lighted, the oven is half-filled with charcoal-dust--this again is covered by pieces of tin
or lime, and, on top of all, the saucepans are put containing food for the Sabbath meals: also
bottles or jars of water are thus kept hot for tea or coffee. Neighbours who are not lucky
enough to have such an oven bring in their food, and we let them put it in our ovens. In this
way we have enough for every one to drink who may come in. Sometimes twenty poor people come
in on a Sabbath day and say: 'Spare me, please, a little hot water?' No one would think of
refusing to give them some, even if they had to share their last glass with them.

"Generally on cold Sabbath afternoons our parents have a nap after eating the nice hot cholent,
and we girls and the young married women go and spend a few hours with our old lady friend,
who always entertains us with stories and discussions on various interesting subjects. So the
time passes very quickly and so pleasantly that we forget how cold it is. About twenty or thirty
of us all sit close together on her divan covered up with rugs, and this with the excitement
over the tales she tells us, helps to keep us warm.

"Last Sabbath our old lady was not very well, and we were feeling very miserable without her
entertaining tales. Suddenly, one of my girl-friends asked me to tell them about our life in
London.

"As they had never read or heard about life outside Jerusalem, it was most amusing to hear
their exclamations of wonder; for they could hardly believe what I told them was true, till
our old lady confirmed our statements.

"First, they wanted to know how young men and women behaved toward each other.

"I told them that every man and every woman, whether young or old, either in the street or
in-doors, always shook hands with friends--at this they looked very surprised and some seemed
even horrified, exclaiming: 'What a sin to commit.' I asked them where it was written that
this was a sin? 'Well,' some replied, 'our parents or husbands say it is a sin,' 'I don't think
it is a sin, but only a custom,' said I. 'But it is a sin,' insisted one little wife of fifteen
'to touch one another's hands.' I tried to explain to her, but she would not listen to me and
we were on the verge of quarreling but as usual, when there was a difference of opinion between
any of us, we always appealed to our old lady and she agreed with me that there was no sin
in shaking hands. 'Sin,' she said, 'comes from thoughts--if while talking or laughing or even
shaking hands, evil thoughts pass through the minds of men or women then, and then only, is
the act likely to be a sin. In Europe,' she went on to say, 'it is quite a natural thing for
men and women to shake hands and talk to each other naturally.'

"Then I asked my new friend Huldah (a young wife of fifteen years of age) to tell us all about
her own love-affair and marriage. She was greatly shocked to hear me speaking of love before
marriage--'Such a thing could never happen to a modest Jewish maiden in those days,' she said.

"I told her that it did happen in Europe. 'May be,' she replied; 'it may happen in lands where
Jews mix with non-Jews and copy their ways!'

"As I rather liked to tease her, I said she was mistaken, for here in Jerusalem did the great
Rabbi Akiba fall in love with his wife before marriage. 'Oh, that was quite different!' she
replied. 'Not at all,' said I, for were not feasts and rejoicing held so that youths and maidens
could meet one another in the vineyards and dance in the meadows?--Look in the Bible,' I continued,
'and you will see it is mentioned there.' Then all looked abashed. The only one who smiled
was our old lady.

"'Don't unsettle their minds, dear,' she whispered softly to me. 'I don't want to,' I said;
'I only want to show them that, though such things are done in other countries, there is no
sin in it as they have been brought up to believe.' 'Well, well!' she said, 'let us hope God
will restore our beloved land to us in his own good time, and then we shall again, as in days
of old, celebrate such Festivals!'

"We all said 'AMEN,' most heartily, to this wish.

"In my next letter I will tell you of our friend's engagement and marriage. Your loving cousin,
Millie."

ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING CEREMONIES

The hearers waited with eagerness for the next Friday evening, as they enjoyed so much hearing
those interesting letters.

The next Mr Jacobs read was this:

"Hulda is only fifteen years of age, and has already been married six months. If she were dressed
as girls are dressed in England, she would really look beautiful; but her beauty is, I think,
marred by the silk handkerchief she wears on her head, which covers half her forehead and her
ears, so that none of her hair can be seen, I mean that part of it that was shaved off. Over
the silk handkerchief she wears a black velvet band, to which gold coins are attached and these
are put on so coquettishly that it makes the head-gear look quite artistic. Sometimes she wears
ornaments with pearls in them. These special trinkets are, of course, worn only on Sabbaths
and Festivals or some other special occasions.

"The shaving of part of the young wife's head the day after her marriage is a custom to prevent
young married women from being tempted by vanity to show off their hair, which is generally
in Palestine very beautiful. The poor things cover up the part so well that there is no fear
of any of it being seen.

"Hulda is tall and well-developed for her age, and lively as a cricket, always ready to play
and laugh and joke with us. She started by telling me: 'I was invited to visit my betrothed's
family during the holidays, and my future mother-in-law let me help her with the baking and
cooking, and was specially pleased with the way I stretched out the dough for the lockshen--I
made it look so thin, like a paper wrapper. She told me that I would make a good housewife.
Then I showed all the family some of the linen garments I had made and had with me, and the
crochet I had trimmed them with.'

"Here Hulda turned to me and said: 'our mothers encourage us at eight years of age to begin
to make garments for our trousseaux, and at the age of ten we start to crochet lace and embroider,
so by the time we get married we have all our things ready, for they cannot be bought ready-made
in Palestine. When we become betrothed we work our future initials on our things and make our
dresses.'

"'While I was staying at my betrothed's home, we never spoke to each other, except to say Good-morning
and Good-night. Sometimes when no one saw us we looked at one another, for already I liked
my young man, though he was not handsome. A wise girl does not want good looks in a husband
so much as that he should be a good Talmudist and be a good character; this he is, and I could
listen to him for ever,' she said, blushing like a rose; 'when he sings Zmires, his voice is
like a nightingale, and even in the mornings, when he thinks I am asleep, it is just lovely
to hear his sing-song as he studies--it is to me the sweetest of all music,' she said.

"'So it should be, my child,' said our old lady, 'and it is a privilege for us women to help
them to study.'

"'So my mother says,' said Hulda, naturally.

"At the same time I thought to myself: 'A nice thing it would be if only our men were to study
and our women to work, as they mostly do here and in Russian ghetto towns. No,' I thought,
'I would rather that the men did some manual labour as well as study, and the women have some
time for study as well as for household work.'

"But I kept these thoughts to myself, while Hulda continued to tell me what a longing she had
to see more of her betrothed; but she did not see him again till after the marriage ceremony.

"I will try to describe the ceremonies to you in detail, as I have now been to several weddings
here, and I think you would like to know.

"A week before the wedding, all the relations and friends come to help bake and prepare the
wedding-feast; for, as these proceedings last about eight days, it is no easy matter to celebrate
them.

"The bride's trousseau is shown to the guests who come, and everything is examined and counted
by all, especially the relations of the bridegrooms. When there happens to be less than expected,
woe betide the bride, for she is always reproached about it by her mother-in-law or his other
relatives.

"On the Sabbath before the marriage the bridegroom is called up to read the Law, and friends
pay him visits.--First they send him nicely baked cakes or puddings and a bottle of wine. (It
is a good thing that this is the custom, or else a poor man would be ruined by the cost of
all the feasting that he is expected to provide).

"During the week the bride's friends come every evening and dance and sing in her home, coffee
and cakes and baked nuts being handed round.

"The morning of the wedding, both bride and bridegroom fast, and each goes with his or her
parents to the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem, to pray for a blessing on their married life, and
then they go to be blessed by the Rav.

"When the bride returns home, she is dressed in her bridal dress. Then she is led up to a chair
that has been raised off the floor; her hair is unloosed and allowed to hang over her shoulders;
and this is the last time, for the next day most of it is shaved off.

"Her young friends stand near her and each sings a song, bidding good-bye to her maiden days;
and the bride weeps, fearing what the future may hold in store for her. Then the bridegroom
comes in, led by his friends, who carry candles. He is given a veil, which he throws over his
bride's head, and then leaves with his friends for the Synagogue.

"Though some parts of the ceremony look ridiculous, yet all is carried out so solemnly that
one feels very much impressed.

"The bride is then led by two of her relatives or friends, who carry candles, and all the other
friends follow them through the streets, some also carrying candles. As there are no carriages
to be had in Jerusalem, they have sometimes to walk some distance to the Synagogue.

"The usual bridal canopy is in the Synagogue, and they walk round it seven times; then prayers
are said, and the glass is broken; Mazzeltov is said, and with songs and clapping of hands
the bridal pair is led home again. Near the home a large Bagel is held by a friend, and as
the couple cross the threshold it is broken over their heads, and the pieces are distributed
among the guests. The bride and bridegroom are then led into a room, and the door is closed
for five minutes--I suppose to be sure that they are the right persons, anyhow the bridegroom
lifts the bride's veil and gives her the first kiss he has ever given her. (I do not know if
she kisses him, for she may be too shy: they will not tell when I ask).

"After the five minutes have passed, the bride is led out of the room to a room where the women-guests
are assembled, while the bridegroom goes to a room where the men-guests are. The feasting lasts
for a few hours in each room. Then the bride is led by some of her women friends to the room
where the men are, and the bridegroom takes her by the hand and starts dancing; the other guests
follow suit. It is amusing to see the old grey-bearded scholars, who, one would think, could
not move their legs, dance and rejoice while the lookers-on clap and sing. It is far more exciting
than a wedding in London, for it is considered a 'Mitzvah' to rejoice with a young bridal couple.

"The dancing goes on for some time, the only miserable pair, I expect, are the bride and bridegroom,
who generally become very weary of it all, for they started their wedding pilgrimage very early
in the morning and had fasted till the feasting began late in the afternoon--I often wonder
that they have any energy left in them, poor things, for they cannot retire till late at night.

"The next day comes the ceremony of cutting off the bride's hair. The bridegroom's mother hands
her a few silk handkerchiefs to be worn on her head on special occasions. Sometimes the poor
little bride is so young that she cries while her beautiful plaits are being cut off.

"At times a quarrel begins between the two mothers: the bride's mother sometimes insisting
that her child's hair shall only be cut short and not shaved, and she generally gets her way.

"Some brides do not mind being shaved, for they like the idea of wearing the pretty coloured
silk handkerchiefs.

"At nearly every wedding a table is spread for the poor, and I was present at a wedding when
more than a hundred poor men came regularly for eight days, and the table was spread as bountifully
for them as for the other guests. Here in Palestine the poor share in the joys of their richer
brethren.

"When the eight days of Festival are over, the young couple usually settle down close by or
in one of their parents' homes, who give them a room. A great deal of the happiness of young
couples depends on the character of the mother-in-law, for they have the power of making or
marring their happiness more than anyone else.

"Huldah told me that she would have been quite happy in her mother-in-law (for she really was
a good kind woman) if only she would more often allow her to talk to her husband, 'and I do
so like a talk with him,' she said to me with a sigh, 'for he is so wise. When my mother-in-law
sleeps after the Sabbath dinner, we go into the next room and we sit talking, and he tells
me tales from the Talmud, and sometimes reads aloud from it. I do so enjoy those Sabbath hours,'
she continued, 'for I have only my bedroom which I can call my own, but I am not allowed to
be much in it,--the little time I have with my husband each day makes me very happy, for I
know he loves me dearly (although he does not say so), for when he comes home his first word
is for me,'

"'Sometimes, when my mother-in-law is in a good temper, she lets us eat out of the same dish,
and then he jokingly puts the daintiest bits on my side; often when I wake in the mornings
I find pinned to my pillow a few words he has copied from the Song of Songs, put there before
leaving for the Synagogue.' Then Huldah added 'After returning himself from the Synagogue on
Sabbath Eve, my dear husband always looks at me with a loving smile when he reads that part
where it says: ''The price of a virtuous woman is far above rubies, the heart of her husband
trusteth in her.' 'Yes indeed,' she said, 'thanks be to God--I am a very happy wife, and when
God blesses us with children, my cup of joy will be very full.'

"And this child-wife of fifteen did indeed look very happy as she spoke--and I, deep down in
my heart, thought, 'What would they say to such match-making in England and Western Europe,'
and yet in Palestine such marriages arranged by the parents are nearly always happy.

"I must close now, Your loving Millie."

When Mr Jacob had finished reading, some of his young listeners said they thought it was a
very foolish way to arrange marriages. One of them remarked: "How could there be any love,
if a couple rarely met each other before marriage."

Another said: "For my part, I would never marry unless I felt sure that I was in love with
my husband to-be and that he also was in love with me. Love is everything in life, I think."

Then said a middle-aged lady, much loved and respected by all the listeners: "How often has
many a marriage not turned out well, even when as young people a husband and wife had a passionate
love for each other. The seed of love may be sown before or after marriage; but, unless carefully
cultivated during married life by both husband and wife, through deeds of kindness and thoughtfulness
and forbearance and mutual sympathy and understanding, the tender plant may soon wither and
die. The old customs of our race, which this letter shows are still kept up in Palestine and
I believe in other parts where ghetto life still obtains, if they are not carried to extremes,
are, I think, very wise; but, unfortunately, our people are very tempted to go to extremes,
and a good custom can thus be distorted and brought to ridicule."

"True, true," murmured some of the older people.

"In all things moderation and balance are safe guides to follow," said Mr. Jacobs.

The next book will be all about Millie's love affairs and marriage and her life, impressions,
and tribulations in Palestine.

APPENDIX

THE CELEBRATION OF THE JUBILEE OF ZORACH BARNETT

(Translated from the Palestine Daily Mail of Friday, December 2nd, 1921).

Those who felt stirred to celebrate the jubilee of this illustrious old pioneer did very well
indeed. For a young man who leaves all his business enterprises far behind him in London and
who migrates to Eretz-Israel over fifty years ago--at a time when Jaffe did not posses even
a Minyan foreign Jews; and at a time when the way from Jaffe to Jerusalem was a very long and
tedious one--aye, a way fraught with all possible dangers, and moreover, teeming with robbers,
a journey which lasted three whole days, such a Jew is indeed entitled to some mark of appreciation
and respect.

A Jew who has worked for the re-building of our land for over fifty consecutive years in which
period he visited the lands of the Diaspora fifteen times and all that he did and profited
there was afterwards invested in the re-building of Eretz-Israel such a Jew has indeed merited
to be praised even during his life-time.

A Jew who was one of the first to found the colony of Petah-Tikvah and therefore merited that
people in Jerusalem should mark him out as an object of derision and scorn because he was a
dreamer--a man who built the first house in this Petah-Tikvah--who was one of the founders
of the "Me'ah Shearim in Jerusalem--who constructed perfect roads in Jaffe--who founded Zionist
Societies in the lands of the Diaspora at a time when Zion did not occupy such a foremost part
in the heart of the Jew--such a Jew is indeed worthy that a monument of his splendid achievement
be erected for him even during his life-time!"

It must, moreover, be mentioned that Z. Barnett and his wife are one of the remnant of those
noble men who participated in that famous assembly of Kattovitz--that noble gathering of illustrious
men which can be verily described as the Aurora as the Dawn of the conception of the Restoration
of the land of Israel.

The celebration took place on Sunday, November 27th, in the private house of Mr. Barnett. Those
who had assembled were many, in fact, there were present representatives of every shade and
section of Jewish communal life in Palestine. Thus there came along Rabbis of all the various
congregations, various Jewish communal workers, heads of colonies, teachers, business men and
workpeople and even beggars who came to enjoy the material blessings of this great national
festivity.

Mr. Joseph Lipshitz opened the proceedings by explaining the importance of this great red letter
day for Mr. Barnett and then called upon Rabbi Auerbach of Jerusalem who had come specially
to take part in this celebration. Rabbi Auerbach delivered a long Talmudical dissertation in
which he recited the great merits of the jubilant. He compared Z. Barnett to a king, because
he based himself on a Talmudic statement concerning Omri which asserts that he who builds a
little town or village is worthy to be called a king. The learned Rabbi also emphasised the
importance of acquiring land in Palestine by many pithy remarks. Then spoke the Rabbis: Joseph
Ha-levi, Shneiur Lenskin, Joseph Arwatz and Joseph Rabbi. All these testified to the great
qualities of their host, who besides being a great idealist was also a very practical man too.

After the Rabbis, Mr. S. Nissim, chief of the colony of Petah-Tikvah spoke. He narrated in
a very realistic and eloquent way how that pioneer Zorach Barnett came fifty years ago to build
up the ruins of the land and how he bought up the land of Petah-Tikvah, which was now a flourishing
colony, but which was then a howling desert wilderness, such as only insane men could ever
think of converting this into an habitation of men. At the present day, thousands of pioneers
are flocking to the land, but they are only a continuation of the pioneering of Z. Barnett
and his stalwart companions. The speaker concluded by blessing the jubilant that he should
survive to see thousands of Jewish Colonies in Palestine and tens of thousands of pioneers
flocking here from every part of the world.

Mr. I. Adler, chief representative of the Council at Jaffe, also spoke on this great member
of the Jewish community at Jaffe. Such men are really a blessing to the whole of Israel; they
are not only Banim (sons) of the Jewish people, but also Bonim (builders).

Many were the letters and telegrams of congratulation received on this occasion from various
ranks of Jewish representatives in Palestine. The private secretary of Sir Herbert Samuel wrote:
"I am commanded by His Excellency, the High Commissioner, to acknowledge your invitation to
partake in your celebration of the 27th inst. His Excellency, is, however, restrained from
accepting this invitation owing to the various duties which occupy him at present. He sends
you his blessing and hopes that all your ambitions will be realised with, the greatest success."

The Chief Rabbi of Eretz-Israel, Rabbi A.I. Kook, wrote: "I should very much have wished to
be present at the occasion of the jubilee of my dear and respected friend, who first trod upon
this Holy soil over fifty years ago and who has since then been building up the ruins of our
land, but, unfortunately, to my great pain, I am not able to realise this my wish, owing to
the present troubled state of the Jewish community. Please accept my heartiest blessings for
a happy old age, in which you may verily see the re-birth of our People and of our land."

Rabbi Rabbinowitz wrote: "I bless our jubilant from the depths of my heart. This occasion is
not only a happy one for him, it is also for us. This shows that though the enemies of re-building
Palestine were, and are still, many, Palestine is, nevertheless, steadily but surely being
rebuilt."

Mr. Diznoff, in the name of the Colony of Tel-Avis wrote: "On this great occasion, we should
like to say, that as you have merited to see that the "howling desert" you have found, you
have succeeded in creating into a "Garden of Eden," thus may you merit to see the flourishing
state of the whole of Palestine."

Mr. Ephraim Blumenfeld wrote: "Though I should have very much have liked to be present, yet
my present bad state of health does not enable me to do so. This is a happy moment for all
lovers of Zion. May you merit to see with your own eyes the restoration of Israel on its own land."

