Whenever Oaklands was excited by strong emotion of any kind, there was a proud consciousness
of power in his every look and motion, which possessed for me an irresistible attraction: and
now, as he stood, his noble figure drawn up to its fullest height, his arms folded across his
ample chest in an attitude of defiance a sculptor would have rejoiced to imitate; his head
thrown slightly back, and his handsome features marked by an expression of haughty indignation;
when I reflected that it was a generous regard for my honour which excited that indignation,
I felt that my affection for him was indeed "passing the love of women," and that he was a
friend for whom a man might resolve to lay down his life willingly.

While these thoughts passed through my brain Lawless and several of the more influential members
of the party had been endeavouring to persuade Wilford to own that he was in the wrong, and
ought to apologise, but in vain; the utmost concession they could get him to make was, that
"he was not aware that he had offered any particular insult to Mr. Oaklands, but if that gentleman
chose to put such a construction upon his words, he could not help it, and should be ready
to answer for them when and where he pleased".

They were then, as a last resource, about to appeal to Oaklands, when I interfered by saying
"that the insult, if insult it was, had originated from the part I had taken in the proceedings
of the evening, and was directed far more against me than Oaklands; that under these circumstances
it was impossible for me to allow him to involve himself further in the affair. If my veracity
were impugned, I was the proper person to defend it; there could be but one opinion on that
subject."

To this they all agreed, and at length Oaklands himself was forced reluctantly to confess he
supposed I was right.

"In this case, gentlemen," I continued, "my course is ~173~~clear; I leave my honour in your
hands, certain that in so doing I am taking the wisest course; honourable men and men of spirit
like yourselves will, I feel certain, never recommend anything incompatible with the strictest
regard for my reputation as a gentleman; neither will you needlessly hurry me into an act,
the consequences of which might possibly embitter the whole of my alter life. In order that
personal feeling may not interfere any more with the matter, my friend and I will withdraw;
Lawless will kindly convey to me your decision, on which, be it what it may, I pledge myself
to act;---I wish you a very good-night."

Then telling Lawless I should sit up for him, and taking leave of two or three members of the
party with whom I was most intimate, I drew Oaklands' arm within my own, and, unlocking the
door, left the room, Wilford's fierce black eyes glaring at us with a look of disappointed
fury, such as I have witnessed in a caged tiger, being the last object I beheld.

CHAPTER XXII -- TAMING A SHREW

          "I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly;
          A quarrel."

          "I do repent; but Heaven hath pleased it so
          To punish me with this."

          "We will compound this quarrel."

          "'What's that?'--'Why, a horse.'
          "'Tell thou the tale.'"

          "Nay, I will win my wager better yet,
          And show more signs of her obedience."

          "Now go thy ways, thou hast tamed a curst shrew."
          --Shakspeare.

"WHY did you prevent me from giving that insolent scoundrel the lesson he deserved?" was Oaklands'
first observation as we left the quadrangle in which Lawless's rooms were situated; "I do not
thank you for it, Frank."

"My dear Harry," replied I, "you are excited at present; when you are a little more cool you
will see that I could not have acted otherwise than I did. Even supposing I could have borne
such a thing myself, what would have ~174~~been said of me if I had allowed you to fight in
my quarrel? no honourable man would have permitted me to associate with him afterwards."

"But I don't see that the quarrel was yours at all," returned Oaklands; "your share of it was
ended when the toast affair came to a conclusion; the rest of the matter was purely personal
between him and myself."

"How can that be, when the origin of it was his doubting, or pretending to doubt, the truth
of the anecdote which I related?" inquired I. "No; depend upon it, Harry, I have acted rightly,
though I bitterly regret now having gone to the party, and so exposed myself to all this. I
have always looked upon duelling with the greatest abhorrence; to run the risk of committing
murder (for I can call it by no milder name), when at the very moment in which the crime is
consummated you may fall yourself, and thus even the forlorn hope of living to repent be cut
off from you, appears to me little short of madness. On one point I am resolved--if I do go
out with him, nothing shall induce me to fire at him; I will not die a murderer, at all events."

"Should your life indeed be sacrificed," said Oaklands, and his deep voice trembled with emotion
as he spoke, "I will follow this man as the avenger of blood, fix a mortal insult upon him
wherever I meet him, and shoot him like a dog, convinced that I shall perform a righteous act
in so doing, by ridding the world of such a monster!"

I saw by his manner that it would be useless to attempt to reason with him at that moment--his
warm feelings, and the fiery though generous impulses of his impetuous nature, had so completely
gained possession of him, that he was no longer a reasonable creature--we therefore walked
in silence to my rooms, where we parted; I declining his offer to remain with me till I should
learn the decision of Lawless and his friends, on the plea of wishing to be alone (which was,
indeed, a true one), although my chief reason for so doing was to prevent the possibility of
Oaklands saying anything in his present excited state of mind, which, if repeated, might in
any way involve him with Wilford.

My first act, when I found myself once more alone, was to sit down, and endeavour calmly to
review the situation in which I was placed. In the event of their deciding that the affair
might be arranged amicably, my course was clear--I had only to avoid Wilford as much as possible
during the time I should remain at Cambridge, and, if ~174~~ever I were obliged to be in his
company, to treat him with a cool and studied civility, which would leave him no pretext for
forcing a quarrel upon me. On the other hand, if they should think it imperative upon me to
go out with him, then indeed was the prospect a gloomy one. Wilford, whose ruthless disposition
was so well known as to have become, as it were, a by-word among the set he mixed with, was
not a man to be offended with impunity, and as, moreover, I had made up my mind not to return
his fire, the chances were strongly against my escaping with life.

