Heb. 13:12.

     By J. W. BYERS
     Printed in 1902 by GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY

     CONTENTS

     What Is Sanctification?                       5

     The Apostolic Experience                     11

     Consecration and Dedication                  19

     The Holy Spirit of Promise                   25

     Our Inheritance                              32

     Sanctified by Faith                          39

     The Subtraction Process                      45

     Christian Perfection                         51

     Holiness                                     58

     The Vine and The Branches                    64

     Some Helpful Thoughts on Consecration        69

     Questions and Answers                        76

     Personal Experience                          90

What is Sanctification?

Scripturally, the word =sanctification= has three meanings: First, separation; second, dedication;
third, spirit-filling. Webster's definition of it is as follows: "1. The act of consecrating,
or setting apart for a sacred purpose." "=Sanctifier.= One who sanctifies or makes holy; specifically,
the Holy Ghost." "=Sanctify.= 1. To set apart to a holy or religious use. 2. Scripturally and
practically, the terms sanctification, holiness, purity, and perfection are synonymous. =Holiness=,
Separation: setting apart; sacredness. =Purity.= Cleanness; chastity. =Perfection.= Completeness;
wholeness. All this is comprehended in one word, =sanctification=.

It is evident that this term signifies much more in the New Testament sense than it does in
the Old Testament. In the Old Testament it meant but a dedication, a setting apart to a holy
use, as in the example of the sanctification of the tabernacle and its contents--the altar
and laver, and all the vessels belonging thereto--and Aaron and his sons and their garments.
Lev. 8:10-30. In this dispensation of grace it means infinitely more; for in that dispensation
it was but an outward and ceremonial work, but now it is an inwrought work, permeating and
purifying the affections through and through by the cleansing blood and heavenly fire, and
filling the dedicated temple, our body, with the Holy Ghost, as in the example of the early
church at Pentecost.

The justified believer must meet the conditions of complete separation and exclusive dedication
of himself to God, in a sense that no guilty sinner can do. This is the believer's part. He
must purify himself. This brings the believer into the condition where God can fulfill his
part. He can now take exclusive possession of the dedicated temple, and sanctify it. "And the
very God of peace sanctify you wholly."--1 Thess. 5:23. "And they were all filled with the
Holy Ghost."--Acts 2:4. This brings the believer into a more perfect spiritual relationship
with God than when simply justified. Acts 20:32.

"That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour."--1
Thess. 4:4. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it."--1 Thess. 5:23, 24.

Sanctified In Christ

"Unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus."
"That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word."--Eph. 5:26.
13:12; 9:13, 14; 10:10, 14, 29. 2:13.

These and many other texts of scripture teach us that sanctification is a Bible doctrine. There
is but one reason why some people can not see it in the Bible--their eyes are blinded. All
who are willing to yield themselves to God and His word, will soon be taught this blessed truth.
Jesus prayed that His disciples might become sanctified. They had not yet come into this experience.
Jesus knew that they needed it. It was His desire for their highest good. They were not able
to go forth and cope with the powers of sin. They had been under the teaching of the Master
and in His presence, and therefore were protected by Him from the enemy; but now he was soon
to be taken from them, and He knew that they must be "endued with power from on high." Therefore
He implored the Father for the sanctification of the eleven; and not "for these alone," but
"for them also which shall believe on me through their word." This reaches down through the
entire gospel dispensation. It is His blessed will that we all shall be sanctified. As justified
believers, we each are as needy of this grace as were the eleven disciples. It is indispensable
for our spiritual welfare.

Some are disposed to look upon this matter as optional with them; but such is a mistake. The
time comes in the experience of every true believer when the Holy Spirit brings before him
the conditions of a definite and absolute consecration. A refusal to meet these conditions,
done ignorantly, will bring a cloud over our experience of justification and, eventually, if
persisted in wilfully, will bring us into God's utter disapproval. "Therefore to him that knoweth
to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin."--Jas. 4:17.

Sanctification is the normal state of the Christian. The Father, Son and Holy Spirit are jointly
interested in us, that we attain unto this grace. A heart washed and made pure by the blood
of Christ and filled with the Holy Spirit will always be in perfect fellowship with divinity,
and also with all other hearts of like experience. The unsanctified heart of the believer cannot
be fully satisfied, because of the consciousness of the presence of the carnal nature, more
scripturally called "our old man." Just what it is may not perhaps be perfectly understood
by the new convert, but that something abnormal exists will soon be discovered, and there will
be a longing in the heart for an inward cleansing--a normal desire for the normal experience.
On the other hand, when this blessed experience is attained, there comes with it the consciousness
of inward purity which fully satisfies the heart, and it can sing with the spirit and with
the understanding, "Hallelujah for the cleansing; it has reached my inmost soul."

For this purpose Christ gave himself for the church--"That he might sanctify and cleanse it."
God gave him to the world that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting
life, for our justification; but Christ gave himself for the church, for our sanctification.

The gospel commission of the apostle Paul specifies clearly the doctrine of sanctification,
the "inheritance among them which are sanctified." He could not have been faithful to this
commission without leading souls from "forgiveness of sins" into this "inheritance." His ministry
and epistles to the different churches prove his faithfulness. Upon his first acquaintance
with the brethren at Ephesus he asked them the question, "Have ye received the Holy Ghost since
ye believed?" And after three years of faithful ministry in that city, upon the solemn event
of his departure from them, among his last words he reminds the church of the "inheritance
among all them which are sanctified." Then about four years later, while a prisoner at Rome,
he writes back to them his epistle to the Ephesians, which in every chapter sparkles with beautiful
gems of thought upon the subject of sanctification. In his letter to the church of Rome we
are forcibly reminded that this doctrine was prominent in his teaching, employing such terms
as, "this grace wherein we stand" (Rom. 5:2), "our old man is crucified," "that the body of
sin might be destroyed," "dead indeed unto sin," "free from sin" (Chap. 6), "married to ...
him who is raised from the dead" (Chap. 7), "present your bodies a living sacrifice" (Chap.
12) "being sanctified by the Holy Ghost" (Chap. 15). These terms and others signify the precious
experiences of sanctification.

In the first and second epistles to the Corinthians we also notice the mention of this experience,
and that there were some saints at Corinth that were sanctified (1:2, 30), although some were
not, and were told that they were yet carnal. There were evidently only the two classes--sanctified
and justified, in the church there, the same as is usually the case everywhere today. In the
second epistle, Chap.

Thus we can see in all the epistles of this apostle, the theme of sanctification. His personal
testimony to the Galatians reads: "I am crucified with Christ." His statement to the brethren
at Philippi was: "As many as be perfect"; to those at Colosse: "Ye are dead and your life is
hid with Christ in God," "Ye have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new
man"; his teaching in the epistles to the Thessalonians, showing them that sanctification is
the will of God to them, and his desire that the "God of peace sanctify you wholly." His instructions
to Timothy show how we may become a vessel "sanctified and meet for the Master's use," and
he refers to the fact that there were some who "call on the Lord out of a pure heart." His
letter to Titus, in which he mentions how Jesus gave himself for us, that he might "purify
unto himself a peculiar people." These all add testimony to this doctrine and the apostle's
faithfulness in his ministry. Some scholars think Apollos is the author of the epistle to the
Hebrews; but whether Paul or Apollos, it abounds with truth upon sanctification.

All the other writers of the New Testament teach the same truth. James says, "Purify your hearts,
ye double-minded." Peter gives emphasis to the doctrine of holiness: "Be ye holy," and that
"we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness"; and desires that the God of all grace
"make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you;" and that at the coming of Christ "ye
may be found of him in peace, without spot and blameless." Jude addresses his epistle "to them
that are sanctified," and "preserved."

Then when we search the writings of John we are almost overwhelmed with glory, as we read his
beautiful teachings upon this theme, which he so clearly sets forth. God grant that we all
may "walk in the light as he is in the light," walking "even as he walked," that his love in
us may be "perfected," that we may prayerfully hold fast and abide in this "unction from the
Holy One," that the "anointing" may abide in us. Such an experience can be realized only by
every one that "purifieth himself even as he is pure." 3:16, 17.

In our study of this theme we find that the word of God is our only standard to prove that
sanctification is a Bible doctrine. The experience and testimony of the Bible writers and the
other apostles of the early church also prove to us and teach the nature of this doctrine and
its relative position to the experience of justification. It will be important and profitable
for us to review these experiences, not only to establish the doctrine in our faith, but also
to examine our own hearts and see that our experiences are truly apostolic.

The author of this treatise was sanctified at a time when there was a battle raging against
the doctrine as a second work of grace. He had himself taken a stand against it for some years,
because it did not seem that the scriptures and apostolic testimonies were sufficiently clear
to establish the second-work doctrine. In this he had been blinded by the theories on the opposing
side, notwithstanding the brilliant testimonies to the contrary of those whose lives were unimpeachable.
Of course it was impossible to consecrate for and receive the experience under such circumstances,
and consequently years of unsatisfactory experience passed by, until at last the indisputable
symptoms of inborn depravity, and the deplorable weakness of the heart and will to cope with
the mighty power of the enemy, brought the struggling soul into depths of despair at the feet
of Jesus, crying, "Forgive me, O Lord, for all my sad failures, and 'create in me a clean heart,
O God.'" It was not a question at this crisis about it being a second work of grace. The crying
need of the soul was a clean heart. It was all too evident that the heart was not clean, and
it was also evident that it was the will of God, even my sanctification; and dear loved ones
were daily proving by life and testimony that the experience was attainable.

It will be sufficient to say at present that the definite consecration and definite faith in
the definite promises of God brought the definite experience. The inward struggle was over,
and the soul had entered into its promised land--the heavenly rest; "for we which have believed
do enter into rest."--Heb. 4:3. Experimentally, the question of the second work was most thoroughly
and satisfactorily answered, and it seemed as clear as the noonday sun in a cloudless sky.
The internal evidence was overwhelming, and now it only remained necessary to become established
scripturally, which, by the study of the apostolic experiences and testimonies, was by the
anointing received in due time. Praise God!

Were it not for the perverted teaching, every truly justified child of God would soon be led
by the Holy Spirit into this grace, because it is the inheritance of the soul, and its normal
state. The apostles before Pentecost needed it, and so does every other child of God. Let us
briefly consider the experience of the apostolic brethren, both before and upon their Pentecost.

=They were born of God before Pentecost.= This is very definitely established by the following
scriptures. "He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? "Nathanael answered and saith unto
him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God."--John 1:49.

This is sufficient to prove their experience, both before and after the death and resurrection
of Christ. Some would contend that the disciples could not have been regenerated in a true
New Testament sense before Pentecost, because the plan of salvation was not finished before
Christ's death on the cross. If this were true, there is sufficient in the foregoing text (John
20:27-29) to prove that the eleven were enjoying the regenerating grace; for they all had at
least as much faith as Thomas, that Jesus is the Christ; and when Thomas was invited to prove
to his own satisfaction that Jesus had indeed risen from the dead, he at once acknowledged
him "My Lord and my God." This was after the atonement for sin was made, and the disciples
believed in him and beyond doubt were justified and born of God in the perfect New Testament
sense. This not only is true of the eleven, but equally so of all who believed that he arose
from the dead; for he said, "Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed."

The language of the apostle to the Roman brethren (Chap. The apostle John says (1 John 2:29),
"If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of
him." He also says, "Every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God."--1 John 4:7. The
critic will say that this was said of the seventy and not of the twelve. Well, it was said
of the seventy, but how could it be less true of the twelve whom he had previously chosen and
sent out to preach the kingdom of God, to cast out devils, and to heal the sick? It is likely
that a number of those seventy, if not all, were among the one hundred twenty at Pentecost.
To say the least concerning the spiritual standing of the twelve, they were equal with the
seventy. "I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of
the world, even as I am not of the world.... They are not of the world, even as I am not of
the world." John 17:14,16.

This was the spiritual condition of the eleven before Pentecost testified to by Jesus himself.
It is certainly a blessed condition--born of God, their names written in heaven, not of the
world. They belonged to God, and they kept His word. Would that every professing follower of
Jesus were in this blessed state. It would produce a revolution in Christendom. Does not this
signify all that can possibly be comprehended in justification?

Then after the blood of Jesus had been shed and the ransom for sin paid, he opened their understanding
(Luke 24:45) that they might understand the scriptures, how he should suffer and rise again
from the dead. We see that they believed in him the Redeemer, and now understood the object
of his suffering and death; but there was still a glorious work of grace awaiting them, to
be inwrought by the Holy Ghost, the sanctifier.

=They were not yet sanctified=, and for this reason Jesus prayed for them as he did. He well
knew that they could not be kept from the evil of the world in a manner that would prove satisfactory
to themselves and the Father, unless there should be accomplished in them more than had yet
been done.

We will presently consider the testimony of the apostle Peter with reference to this experience
at Pentecost, but will first notice the experience of

Cornelius And His Household

This brother was a devout man; he feared God with all his house; he prayed to God always and
gave much alms, which were accepted of God and were had in remembrance in his sight; he had
a good report. God heard his prayers, accepted him, and answered his prayers; and he and his
household were all anxious to hear the preaching of Peter, testifying, "Now therefore are we
all here present before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God."--Acts 10:33.

This was not a company of sinners. Peter did not preach repentance to them. Although they were
Gentiles and did not have the privileges that many others had and were not acquainted with
the apostles, they were acquainted with God. Peter expressed his surprise at this, saying,
"Of a truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: but in every nation he that feareth
him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." Acts 10:34, 35. Here Peter testifies
both to the righteousness and to the acceptance with God of this household.

From Peter's statement in Acts 11:14, in his testimony to the church concerning this event,
a doubt might arise as to this company being saved in the full New Testament justification.
He refers to the words of the angel in his message to Cornelius, instructing him to send for
Peter, "Who shall teach thee words whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved." But this
statement in itself cannot be interpreted to mean that this company were not already justified.
But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they."
The term "saved" in both these instances signifies more than justification; for truly Peter
and the disciples to whom he was speaking in this last instance were justified.

The household of Cornelius were ready with open hearts to receive all that God had for them,
and while Peter spoke the word of God to them "the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard
the word." This experience was identical in character with that of the Jewish saints at Pentecost.

Peter's Testimony

In rehearsing this wonderful event to the brethren and apostles at Jerusalem he testified to
the unquestionable leading of the Spirit to this company of believers. He said (Acts 11:15,
17), "And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning. But
Peter testified to the fact that the Gentiles are placed upon a level with the Jews, not only
in the reception of the Holy Spirit, but in the experience of cleansing. He testified to these
two phases of sanctification, equally wrought in the hearts of the Jews and Gentiles, making
"no difference between us and them"; and in this same testimony he plainly states that "purifying
their hearts" was an experience co-incident with the reception of the Holy Ghost--"giving them
the Holy Ghost," "purifying their hearts," "even as he did unto us." Opposers of this truth
have argued that Peter's statement, "purifying their hearts," in the Greek text reads, "having
purified their hearts," the word "having" signifying that their hearts were purified previous
to the event of their reception of the Holy Ghost; but this objection has no foundation in
scripture, history, or experience. If there could be a shadow of meaning in this form of this
word in the Greek text, to signify that the "purifying their hearts" occurred prior to the
outpouring of the Holy Ghost, it simply has reference to the order of these two phases of sanctification,
which were effected within them upon this occasion.

It is evident that in the divine order of sanctification purifying the heart by faith is preparatory
to the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. He must have a pure heart in which to make his abode.
However, there is no lapse of time perceptible between the =negative= and =positive= phase
of sanctification. How easily this is understood by those who have truly received the Pentecostal
experience. How the "anointing" teaches us and witnesses in our hearts to the testimony of
Peter; but to those who have not yet had their Pentecost, and especially such as are blinded
by theory and the doctrines of men, there is likely to be discussion and argument of words.
The apostles and brethren at Jerusalem had no argument to make when Peter rehearsed his experience.
They simply "glorified God."

This testimony agrees with Peter in his account of the outpouring of the Holy Ghost upon the
Gentile believers. It is not plainly stated that Paul has reference to this event in his testimony
quoted, yet we can see clearly that he does have reference to the experience of sanctification,
and that it is identical with that of all believers, being a specific work of the Holy Ghost.

Experiences of the Brethren at Samaria

"Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them. About three years
prior to this time there was a greater One than Philip at Samaria preaching the words of life,
and many more than the woman at the well believed, and they said to the woman, "Now we believe,
not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the
Christ, the Saviour of the world."--John 4:42. This was an effectual introduction of the gospel,
and when Philip went to that city he found much good soil for the precious word in the name
of Jesus Christ. There is no room for doubt as to the acceptable condition of these converts.
They believed in the name of Jesus and were baptized. Some had doubtless remained firm believers
since Jesus' visit to that city; others believed through the preaching of Philip.

How clearly the inspired record here proves the second work of grace, and how beautifully this
event harmonizes with the others relative to the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And then, how
glorious to have an experience like it in our own hearts. Praise God for this glorious, vivid,
and living reality which by its divine power pales every theory into utter obscurity.

CHAPTER III.

In this chapter we will notice the scriptures upon the theme of consecration and dedication--the
important step necessary on the part of the justified believer, before he can enter into this
blessed grace of entire sanctification.

We find that in the old dispensation everything that was to be employed in the service of God
necessarily had to be consecrated. In the tabernacle and temple service every vessel and article
of furniture, even the smallest spoon, the tongs, and snuffers, together with the building
itself, and all the priests and their garments, were consecrated wholly unto God, to be used
for no other purpose than divine service. This setting apart for holy service was the Old Testament
sanctification. The setting apart of these things, together with the ceremonial application
of what God had ordained to be used in this dedication, was acceptable in his sight.

This consecration in the old dispensation is but a shadow of the new. It was God's own way
of sanctification--making things holy unto himself. The mere declaration on the part of Moses,
in the consecration of these things, that they were now holy, would not have been sufficient
without the careful observance of the application of the blood of animals and the holy anointing
oil, which were typical of the blood of Jesus and the Holy Spirit. Some of the articles of
the tabernacles and temple were sanctified simply by a setting apart and sprinkling with oil
(Lev. 8:10), while others required the application of oil and blood. Lev. 8:11, 15. In the
consecration of Aaron and his sons the anointing oil and the blood were applied. Without this
they would not have been sanctified. Lev. 8:30. 9:13.

The importance of an exclusive dedication to the service of God should impress our minds with
deep solemnity. Anything held back from such a dedication would most certainly have been rejected
in the old dispensation, and truly it is the same in the new. Many professing to follow Jesus
into a thorough consecration, are at heart disposed to keep back some treasured idol. Many
have doubtless made a profession of sanctification, and yet have never made a definite consecration.
Such are deceived, and never know the joys of this glorious experience. The cleansing blood
and the Holy Spirit will never be applied to the heart that is not absolutely consecrated.

It is both scriptural and logical that we present our bodies a living sacrifice, not only for
service but for actual sacrifice in a definite and absolute consecration. We have no bad things
to present to the Lord in this consecration; for we are not sinners. We would not be proper
candidates for sanctification if we were clinging to anything sinful. Everything sinful must
be forsaken and denounced by the guilty sinner when he comes to God for pardon. Otherwise he
would never be forgiven of his sins. The world, the flesh, and the devil are forsaken in true
repentance. Therefore all sinful things are laid aside forever in repentance. This is the Bible
signification of repentance: To give up all sinful things. But the Bible signification of consecration
is to present to Jesus all the sacred treasures of our hearts--give up all our good things.

       *       *       *       *       *

No sinner can make a definite Bible consecration; for he has no good things to bring to God.
He is guilty and condemned in the sight of God. It is the justified believer who has learned
by experience that his inward spiritual condition is not yet satisfactory. It may have been
for a time; but he sooner or later becomes aware that there is a deeper work of grace needed.
He doubts not that he is justified, but knows that something more must be wrought within. Through
the ministry of the word of God and the blessed guidance of the Holy Spirit, he is soon taught
that a definite consecration must be made as one of the Bible conditions for sanctification.
Now comes the searching and far-reaching question: Are you willing to make this consecration?
This means everything to the soul. All the sacred God-given treasures around which the heart's
affections have so closely entwined, and which have become a part of the very life itself,
are now required to be yielded up to Jesus as a voluntary offering. There is no danger that
anything will be forgotten; for the heart-searching eye of God will reveal every hidden treasure,
and make known the depths of meaning to the soul, which will be astounded to know as never
before how much it means to lay all of itself and sacred treasures at the feet of Jesus. There
comes an inward struggle, perhaps. The heart's affections tighten around the sacred objects
of its love, until they seem dearer than ever before; but while this is being done there comes
a sadness stealing over the soul; for whereas these objects seem so sacred and precious, there
is a consciousness within that Jesus is slighted. The affections are divided between Jesus
and these treasures. He asks the question, "Lovest thou me more than these?" You can answer,
"Yes, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee." But must I give up these treasures, these sacred
things of my heart for thee? Can not I have both them and thee? This is where death must set
in. Thank God, it is the death-route, the only road to this glorious Canaan of soul-rest.

It soon becomes a significant fact thoroughly understood that Jesus requires the undivided
heart and every affection. You cannot refuse him. He has done too much for you. He suffered
without the gate that he might sanctify you with his own blood. He gave himself for the church
that he might sanctify and cleanse it; and now how can you withhold anything from him? He has
a just right to all your affections. He gave his all for you, and now it is right that you
should give your all for him. He sacrificed his life for you; now you are brought to the sacrifice
of your life for him--a living sacrifice. You see that this claim is right and just. It is
a reasonable requirement on his part; a "reasonable service" on your part.

But, dear reader, the question must be answered. Are you going to yield? You may answer, Yes;
but the Lord requires you to do so at once. Usually when the soul is brought face to face with
this consecration and begins to become willing to yield up its treasures, it lets go the easiest
ones first, and as one by one they are counted over to the Lord there comes a final struggle;
the dearest one of all is now before you. The emotions of the heart begin to deepen as the
affections cling to this treasure. Everything has now centered upon this one object. It is
to be sacrificed for Jesus or he must be sacrificed for it. Which will it be? It must be Jesus
only. Much reasoning may arise upon this important matter, but all is vain. There must be the
yielding. You must say from the depths of your soul, "Thy will be done." You have often said
this before, but it never meant nearly what it does now. You truly feel the agonies of death.
Were you to be laid on your death-bed or in your coffin, there would be no greater separation
from everything of this earth than this. No loved one can now go with you. No treasure can
be kept as your own. The lone, dark vale must be crossed. No sympathy of friend can follow
you. Everything must be left behind. Dear reader, this is a critical moment. The destiny of
your soul is hanging upon a single thread. You are swinging out over the deep precipice--clinging,
clinging, clinging. Jesus demands that you let go and drop completely into his will. You desire
to do this, but your soul shrinks. It seems so dark below. Many a one has here taken counsel
with his own soul and decided to swing back upon the side of self, thereby losing incalculable
wealth, and missing this glorious soul-rest which "remaineth therefore ... for the people of
God." O dear soul, do not fail to labor to enter in! Let the death struggle continue until
it has completed its work--until you have truly ceased from your own works. The floodgates
of heaven are ready to open and fill you with such glory that it will cause this old world
to fade out of sight; but not until you can cheerfully and willingly let go and say to Jesus,
"Thy will be done." Your Pentecost is just in reach. Will you have it, or will you not?

In the dedication of the tabernacle we have a beautiful type of the dedication of ourselves
to this "reasonable service" of God. The erection of the tabernacle, the placing of all the
furniture, and the arrangement of the entire structure had to be made in every respect "according
to the pattern" shown to Moses on the mount. In the completion of all the work, we read in
Ex. 40 that it was now all done "as the Lord commanded Moses." He might have thought it did
not matter much about some of these things, and that the Lord would not require every small
thing to be done according to the pattern; but no matter what he might have thought, he knew
that obedience to every requirement of the Lord was his only safety; so he made everything
according to the pattern. In verse 33 the record says, "So Moses finished the work."

Dear soul, can this be said of you? Have you finished the work? Have you ceased from your own
works? You must reach this point in your consecration, so you can realize just as definitely
as Moses did, that you have truly finished the work. V. 34. When Moses had finished the work
and the dedication was complete, the glory of the Lord came into the tabernacle. So it is with
the consecrated heart; the glory of the Lord will fill it.

In the dedication of the temple we also have a type of this Pentecostal experience. "Solomon,
and all the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed
sheep and oxen, which could not be told nor numbered for multitude."--2 Chron. 5:6. See the
sacrifice unto the Lord. Nothing was too great; everything was fully yielded up to him without
reserve. 5:11-14. Thus we see that when the sacrifice was complete and everything was in perfect
order, the glory of God filled the temple.

This was but a type of the day of Pentecost at Jerusalem. In the type, the glory of the Lord
filled the consecrated temple. In the antitype, the consecrated hearts (the temples of the
Holy Ghost) were filled with the glory of the Lord. Now this is just what Jesus will do with
every consecrated heart today. "He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire."--Matt.
3:11. But the consecration must be complete. It is reasonable that Jesus should require us
to yield up everything to him. Our hearts cannot be purified until every affection is yielded.
He requires this for our own highest good. He wants the supreme right of way so that he can
work his own will in our entire being. He wants the absolute control, so that he can get between
us and everything. Praise his name! this is for our benefit, which we will plainly see when
once we have paid the full price. When his will is completely wrought in us, then he will with
himself freely give us all things for our greatest good and his highest glory. Even an hundredfold
shall be our delightful portion. But the loss of all things must precede this wonderful increase.
An absolute death must precede this abundant life. Then and then only can the Holy Ghost come
into and possess the temple. Oh, that every professed believer in Jesus might see the importance
of this consecration! The suffering of death is serious indeed; but the unspeakable glory that
follows causes the enraptured soul to be astonished at the marvelous gain for so small a loss.
The perfect love of Jesus now flows from his heart into the one which has yielded its all to
him. The undivided affections now feel the blessedness of perfect unity with him--married indeed
to him who is raised from the dead.

CHAPTER IV

The Holy Spirit of Promise

The Holy Spirit was promised through the prophets. 11:19, 20. 44:3, 4. 36:25-28. At that day
ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.

To Whom Is This Promised? 2:13.

In a previous chapter we have noticed that the Holy Ghost experience of the apostles and all
those of the early church was the same; and we see definitely by the texts just quoted that
it is the design of God that all believers receive it. Also we have seen that this Holy Ghost
experience is a subsequent one to regeneration, and identical with sanctification. Every young
convert who has truly been regenerated, will in due time find that something more needs to
be done in his heart before he can fully realize an experience that will correspond with the
fulfillment of the many exceeding great and precious promises of the Holy Ghost. This does
not have reference to the Pentecostal baptism, but to the work of the Holy Spirit in regeneration,
inducting us into the body of Christ, the church. This is very different from the baptism with
the Holy Ghost. In regeneration the Holy Ghost baptizes the believer into Christ; in sanctification
Christ baptizes the believer with the Holy Ghost. "He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost
and with fire."--Matt. 3:11.

This latter is the sanctification and Pentecostal experience. Both are spiritual experiences.
When reading these wonderful promises by the prophets, we can clearly distinguish the two works
of grace foretold.

The birth of the Spirit (John 3:3-8), or that experience which inducts us into Christ, must
necessarily precede the experience of sanctification. The Holy Ghost will never come into the
temple to abide until he has first gained possession of the same. The heart must first be both
justified and fully consecrated before the divine Guest can make it his exclusive and permanent
abode. This glorious grace of sanctification does not detract from the marvelous work of justification.
Both have their import and place in God's wonderful redemption plan, and stand out distinctly
in many of the scriptures; and yet we occasionally hear of some who say of this beautiful doctrine
that it is not taught in the word of God. Why such remarks are made is simply because of a
misconception of the glorious redemption plan--in some instances it is owing to the perverted
doctrines of men, while in others it may be because of a perverted individual experience of
justification. To the willing and obedient heart, God will impart knowledge and understanding
of his sweet and glorious soul-rest.

Oh, let us praise and magnify the Lord for his wonderful grace that he has so abundantly supplied
through repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ, that he is so willing
and ready to remove from our hearts the guilt of all our sins and transgressions, and remember
them against us no more forever, and then bestow upon us this blessed inheritance among them
which are sanctified by faith that is in Christ Jesus! Would that every justified believer
might be kept from all the perverted doctrines of men, so that the heart could receive the
knowledge of the pure word of God and become instructed in the doctrine of the Holy Ghost life.
The promise of the Father which the resurrected Christ said he would send upon his justified
disciples was no more a promise for them than for every justified believer throughout the gospel
dispensation. Why then should any of us come short of entering into this blessed covenant of
an entire consecration and receiving the fulfillment of the promise? Thank God it is for us
and our children and to all that are afar off.

Until the believer reaches this grace, he is not in his normal spiritual condition, and cannot
live the Christ-life in a manner that is perfectly satisfactory to his own heart. The great
need is a clean heart and the indwelling Holy Spirit, without which there is not the power
within at all times to withstand every evil attack of the enemy with perfect victory. Jesus
knew this need in his disciples. Their usefulness in the world could not be satisfactory until
they received the fulfillment of the promise. They had been useful in his hands and under his
personal guidance in the ministry of the gospel of the kingdom. They had already by his help
been able to bear fruit, but it was the will of the Father that they should bear more fruit,
through the power of the Spirit-filled life; hence they were not to depart from Jerusalem until
they were endued with power from on high. "Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost
is come upon you." How many of the dear people of God today have never had their Pentecost!
Some are out in the world preaching the gospel with no deeper spiritual experience than that
of the disciples before they tarried at Jerusalem. Many have mistaken some natural ability
for the power of the Holy Ghost. Others have accepted the doctrine of sanctification theoretically--made
a formal consecration and claimed the experience, but have never received the Holy Ghost. Dearly
beloved brethren and sisters, let us entreat you to tarry and do not depart from your positive
death bed consecration, until you are endued with power from on high. It is the will of the
Father that you receive the Holy Spirit to possess your being--the consecrated temple--and
make your life from this moment a reproduction of the life of Jesus. He is not here now as
he was during his earthly ministry, but the Father has designed that the Holy Spirit should
dwell in the hearts of consecrated men and women who shall go forth into the world and be witnesses
unto Jesus--representatives that will live the Christ-life in this world, so that men may plainly
see his character and fruits in us. When Jesus ascended to the throne, he by no means intended
that his people should be left comfortless, or deprived of his presence; but rather, he said,
"It is expedient for you that I go away."

The "Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost," is the divine executive of Jesus. He was the power
and life in Jesus when here in his redemption work, and when he ascended to his throne in heaven
the Holy Ghost descended to earth to carry on this glorious redemption work to the end of the
world. But he must have human instrumentality through which to work. Where he can find a truly
consecrated temple, there he makes his abode, and taking full control of the entire being,
performs the perfect will of God through this instrumentality. This is why the apostles were
so much more useful after Pentecost than before. They were now fully possessed by the Holy
Ghost, and in, through faith in, the name of Jesus were enabled to shake the world. Jesus has
left his name here on earth. Through it the Holy Spirit now effects this great redemption.
He cannot do this by himself. He cannot "reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and of
judgment," only as he can find consecrated hearts on earth in which to abide. The Spirit-filled
lives of the people are the only factors that can be used in the hand of God to produce apostolic
results in these perilous days in which we live. This final reformation was unquestionably
begun by the power of the Holy Spirit, and will never be completed by any other power. It is
a spiritual work, and only as the glorious doctrine of sanctification is taught and the experience
obtained and retained, will the church reach the apostolic plane. "And inheritance among them
which are sanctified by faith that is in me."--Acts 26:18. "For this is the will of God, even
your sanctification."--1 Thess. 4:3. 6:12-19. 10:5, 8-10, 14. 2:14.

The Abrahamic covenant embraced a twofold nature: the promised seed, and the promised land.
Isaac was the literal fulfillment of the promised seed; Canaan, the literal fulfillment of
the promised land. These were but the foreshadowing of their great and glorious antitype, Christ
and the gospel, which are the spiritual fulfillment of the promises made to Abraham.

"And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed," which blessing begins in
the regenerate heart, is perfected in the inheritance of entire sanctification, and consummated
in that inheritance "reserved in heaven for us." That part which is yet reserved in heaven
for us will be realized in due time, when this mortal shall put on immortality and the redemption
of Christ shall be completed for spirit, soul, and body. We can all rejoice in this "blessed
hope" which shall be fully realized when Jesus the resurrected Redeemer shall come again and
fashion our dying bodies like unto his glorious body. But the object of this chapter is to
point out the scriptures which teach us the blessed truth of the present-tense gospel inheritance,
which in the redemption plan is to be realized by the people of God in this gospel dispensation,
on this side of the second coming of Christ.

The blessed grace of entire sanctification is scripturally the bequest of God to his people.
It is not simply the will of God in the sense that he desires us to have this experience, but
it is truly a blood-bought inheritance, provided and willed by our Father through Jesus Christ
to every child of God. This blessed experience of regeneration, or the divine birth, inducts
us into the family of God, making us a scriptural heir to all the good things of Father's possessions.
Father has perfected every necessary provision for every one of his children to come into immediate
possession of this inheritance. A will or testament must specify the nature of the inheritance,
mention distinctly the names of the heirs, must have the signature of the testator affixed
in the presence of witnesses, should appoint an executor, and in every respect it must be perfect
or it will not stand legally. Scripturally, this is equally as true. The New Testament is the
will, which distinctly specifies the nature of the inheritance of the people of God "among
them which are sanctified." The sanctified have entered into their possessions of this Holy
Ghost Canaan, and now every regenerated child of God who knows his name is written in Father's
family record--the Book of life--soon finds by reading the will that this inheritance is for
him. He knows it as he reads and believes, and more and more the Holy Spirit leads him to meet
all the spiritual conditions requisite to the coming into possession of this inheritance. He
sees also in the will, the signature of the testator. He sees that the Father has authorized
Jesus Christ to make this will of force. Legally, a will is not of force until after the death
of the testator. Scripturally, this is equally a fact. The child of God sees that it requires
the death of the testator to make it possible that he could be sanctified. He reads in the
will that Jesus, the testator, suffered without the gate that he might sanctify his people
with his own blood and that this is the will of God, even your sanctification.

We see in the will that Father has given every necessary instruction to enable us to meet every
condition of entrance into this blessed possession. His word teaches us that as Abraham with
faith and patience obtained the promise, so we should profit by his example. God has shown
us through his covenant with Abraham that what he promises he is ready and able to fulfill.
He has shown his people, who are the heirs of this inheritance, the immutability of his counsel
by his word and by his oath, that it is impossible for him to break his word and that we should
come to him with perfect confidence that he will do just what he has promised.

There is a remarkable certainty in the fulfillment of this wonderful will. It is as far above
any earthly will or testament as the heavens are higher than the earth. In an earthly will
made by man, the very incident that makes the will of force also makes it liable to become
annulled; for after the death of the testator there frequently is found a defect in the will,
also there are instances where the heirs, dissatisfied with their portion of the inheritance,
proceed by legal process to annul the entire will and have a new one made according to their
own desires. But no such objections can possibly be brought against this divine will.

There are three reasons why it is absolutely beyond the power of man or principality to overthrow
this will.

1. It is positively without fault. God had made a will, the old testament, which was defective.
The apostle says, "For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have
been sought for the second."--Heb. 8:7. In the preceding verse he says, "But now hath he obtained
a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant [testament
or will], which was established upon better promises." The blood of those animals in the old
covenant was acceptable under that dispensation, but it could not produce the desired effect
in sanctification. It could only sanctify to the purifying of the flesh; could not reach the
spiritual and moral nature of man; for there was no spiritual nor moral nature in the sacrifice.
It was only a sacrifice of animal life; therefore it could only purify the flesh, or animal
life, of man (Heb. 9:13) in a ceremonial sense. Therefore, the first will or testament was
necessarily defective, and God himself has annulled it. Heb. 8:13. But Father's last will is
vastly different. It is complete, perfect, and utterly without fault.

2. It is so divinely and infinitely perfect in its power to sanctify and reach every inmost
need of the heart that none of the heirs can possibly become dissatisfied with their individual
portion; for this portion is the entire inheritance for each individual heir. It is not divided
into certain bounded portions for different heirs, but each is entitled to the entire inheritance,
and can come into the full enjoyment of the whole possession without diminishing, in the least
degree, the privilege of every heir to enjoy the same. This makes it unspeakably satisfactory.
But what yet adds to it in its power to satisfy, is that, the sacrifice which was required
to bring this will and testament into force was the precious blood of Christ. The great purpose
of God in this judicial sacrifice was that the sins of the world might be forgiven, that we
might thus become the sons of God and heirs of this inheritance. But, my dear brother and sister,
our Saviour had also another purpose in view in this stupendous sacrifice. He gave himself
for the church, that he might sanctify and cleanse it. Eph. 5:25, 26 and Heb. 13:12.

Ah, dear reader, do you not see your inheritance in this? His blood can sanctify wholly our
spiritual, moral and physical nature. The blood of the old will had no spiritual nor moral
power in it at all; therefore, no wonder it could sanctify only to the purifying of the flesh.
But, oh, the matchless, marvelous grace of God to prepare a sacrifice (a body--Heb. 10:5) pure
and spotless spiritually, morally, and physically, which blood can cleanse our corresponding
nature spiritually, morally, and physically, and reaching every spot of our entire being, make
us clean from the least and last remains of sin. Truly, when we have obtained this inheritance
we can sing with the inspired poet

     "I have found it, Lord, in thee,
        An everlasting store,
      Of comfort, joy, and bliss to me,
        How can I wish for more?"

Praise God for the cleansing which reaches our inmost soul and saves to the uttermost! It,
therefore, readers, is impossible for the heir to become dissatisfied with the inheritance.

3. To make the inheritance doubly certain, we have already seen that God has confirmed it by
two immutable things; his word, and his oath; but to add still more to this matter and make
it absolutely certain and impossible for any principality or power to overthrow this will,
God has appointed Jesus Christ to be executor of his own will. From a human standpoint this
would be impossible; for the will could not be of force at all while the testator was alive,
and his death would render him incapable of any part in it as an executor. But with God these
things are possible; for when the testator died that he might bring this will into force, he
could not be holden by the power of death; but arose again from the dead, that he might lead
captivity captive and give gifts unto men. Thus he has become the executor of his own will,
and now stands ready to bestow upon every heir the full possession of his inheritance.

Dear reader, this is the glorious land of promise of which the land of Canaan was but a type.
The children of Israel were the heirs of that land because they were the children of Abraham.
We are heirs to this Holy Ghost Canaan because we are the children of God through Christ. This
Holy Spirit life can only be obtained through this God-appointed plan. It is the "inheritance
among them which are sanctified." God gave it to Abraham by promise, and as his faith grasped
hold on the promises he saw beyond the literal seed into the blessings of the gospel of Christ
and this glorious Holy Spirit life. Christ has fulfilled these promises which Abraham saw and
believed; and now the apostle can truly say in looking over this wonderful plan, that "they
which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.

"That they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified
by faith that is in me."--Acts 26:18. 5:1, 2.

Faith in the blood of Christ. 13:12.

Dead to sin by faith. 6:6, 7, 11.

Free from sin by faith.

"And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin. Whosoever
abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.... He that
committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose
the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. In this the children
of God are manifest, and the children of the devil."--1 John 3:5-10.

A pure heart by faith.

We receive the Holy Spirit by faith.

Sanctification is a redemption blessing offered to us upon specified conditions. The natural
and general blessings of God toward men, such as the sunshine, rain, and all other temporal
or earthly blessings, may be received alike by both saint and sinner, who come into conformity
with the natural laws by which these natural blessings are governed. Every redemption or spiritual
blessing is also governed by divinely fixed laws, which if complied with will invariably bring
to us all that is contained in the promise. God is able to bestow upon us these blessings unconditionally
if this should be his sovereign will in some individual instances; but according to his redemption
plan there is no assurance given to anyone for any of these specified blessings without a strict
conformity to divine law. The word of God plainly sets forth the laws upon which these different
redemption blessings are based. Repentance and faith are the laws of justification. It is a
divinely established fact that God cannot lie. He has forever settled his word in heaven and
also upon earth; therefore, it is impossible that any sinner should comply with the laws of
repentance and faith and not be justified. Consecration and faith are the laws of sanctification,
which if complied with, must necessarily bring us into this glorious soul-rest.

We have considered the law of consecration as a condition of sanctification in a previous chapter;
and from the quoted texts in this chapter we will now briefly consider the law of faith. These
laws are definitely fixed, and must as definitely be complied with. A definite consecration
and a definite faith will produce a definite experience. One great lack in the church today
is a lack of definiteness. The doctrine of sanctification must be more definitely taught by
God's anointed ministry, who have themselves definitely met the conditions, both to obtain
and retain this definite experience. When it is definitely taught it will consequently be definitely
sought and obtained.

In the apostle's commission we distinctly see that we are sanctified by faith. Acts 26:18.
We also see that Jesus suffered on the cross that he might sanctify us with his own blood.
This points us to the fact that we must have faith in his blood. This grace is purchased for
us, and now it is for us to receive it. We also see that he has made provision in this same
purchase that we may be kept sanctified. This is upon the simple condition of walking in the
light as he is in the light. The result of which is: his blood cleanseth us from all sin. These
precious truths will do us no good if we do not believe them. No heart can ever receive the
benefits of this inestimable purchase without faith. Faith is the hand that reaches out and
takes it. Jesus can do no more than he has done to bring it to us. He holds it out to us, all
perfect and complete, and as we meet the conditions of consecration and faith it becomes ours.

The apostle teaches us in Rom. 6:11 to reckon ourselves "dead indeed unto sin." This can be
done only by faith. The reckoning of faith is a very simple process; it is just believing God.
Abraham believed God, simply reckoned that what God said was true, and then God counted something
to Abraham. He counted it to him for righteousness.

This is the divine law of faith. When we believe it is so because God says it, then God makes
it so because we believe it. This law applies to all the graces of the gospel alike. It is
a sad fact that some professing Christians do not believe we can be sanctified in this life.
Now, it is utterly impossible for such people to get it. They do not believe. The blood of
Christ cannot sanctify them in this condition. It is not for them at all. It is only for them
that believe, and of course no one can believe for it in the scriptural sense without having
met the condition of scriptural consecration. Then the scriptural reckoning will bring the
scriptural and satisfactory result.

Let us illustrate with a simple mathematical reckoning. In a case of addition we take two numbers
and reckon them together before we get the sum. It can never be obtained any other way. The
two numbers are entirely distinct and separate from each other until they are reckoned together.
It is the reckoning that produces the sum. This is exactly true in the process of faith. The
justified believer comes to God for his inheritance of sanctification. He makes the absolute
and definite consecration. He sees that the blood of Jesus has been shed that he may be sanctified.
This is Jesus' part. The consecration is the believer's part. There are the two separate parts
which, if they are not reckoned together, will never produce the result. We might say that
we have now made the consecration, and can do no more. This would be a mistake, we can do more:
we have not yet done the reckoning. We can take the two parts, the blood of Jesus and our consecration,
and by faith add them together, and according to the immutable law of God, which is the law
of faith, the sum of the reckoning is, our sanctification. This is the scriptural method of
obtaining this experience; and as we from henceforth reckon ourselves dead indeed unto sin
upon the condition of an absolute, unbroken consecration, we may rest assured that the blood
of Jesus keeps us cleansed from all sin. The fact that some one may say he does not believe
we can be kept free from sin, by no means affects this divine law. It is as true as heaven,
despite all the unbelief of men. Oh, the power of the sin-cleansing blood! Can we not say with
deep, heartfelt reality,

     "Hallelujah for the cleansing;
      It has reached my inmost soul"?

Truly it is the sweet soul-rest, the heavenly Canaan of the soul, which is the inheritance
of the people of God.

The apostle Peter, in his testimony of the inwrought grace of God at Pentecost, speaks of this
law of faith, which effected in him and his brethren at Jerusalem, as well as the household
of Cornelius upon the event of their induction into this glorious grace, the experience of
heart purity, "and put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith."
This is one phase of sanctification, and according to the testimony of Peter, was a part of
the pentecostal experience. The other phase of it is, in the previous verse of this testimony,
"giving them the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us." This is explained by the apostle Paul.
"That we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith."--Gal. 3:14. Now if we turn
to Rom. 15:16, again we see that we are "sanctified by the Holy Ghost." Certainly it could
not be made more plain than these scriptures set it forth. We receive the pure heart and the
Holy Spirit by faith, which experience is scripturally termed sanctification; therefore, we
can understand the language of Jesus in that part of the commission of the apostle already
quoted: "and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me."

Dear brother and sister, let us magnify God and the name of Jesus for our inheritance, and
if there should be one reader who has not yet entered into this promised land, let us go over
at once and possess it.

We see a beautiful example of faith in the experience of the children of Abraham crossing the
Jordan to enter into their literal inheritance. The priests that bore the ark, which went before
the people, were to be the first to go down into the stream, which, God had said, should be
divided, and the people should go over into their inheritance. As they came down to the river,
their feet were dipped into the stream before the waters parted. God had promised it. They
believed it and obeyed accordingly, and God fulfilled his promise; the waters were parted,
and they all passed over. How different this was from those who, forty years previous to this
event had been brought by the hand of God to Kadesh Barnea, who had all the promises of God
in their favor, that he would cause them to go in and possess the land. But because of unbelief
they were sent back into the wilderness, to wander and die. This literal Canaan was their promised
land, their land of rest, their very own; God had promised Abraham that it should be possessed
by his seed. But these forfeited it because of unbelief. This was the type of this spiritual
inheritance of sanctification, our land of rest, our very own, which we, the spiritual seed
of Abraham through faith in Christ, are to go into and possess.

The apostle gives us some wholesome admonition upon the importance of seeking to enter in.
An evil heart of unbelief will most certainly cause us to lose our inheritance. We are made
partakers of it only by faith. As certainly as the unbelief of literal children of Abraham
caused them to be rejected and disinherited, so will unbelief cause the same sad result in
losing the spiritual inheritance. They provoked God with their unbelief, and he who had sworn
to Abraham that his seed should possess Canaan, now sware that these unbelieving ones should
not enter in. They could not enter in because of unbelief. God's word was not broken, however;
for he brought into this land those of the children who, their unbelieving fathers said, would
become a prey to the inhabitants of the land. And, what still keeps God's word from being broken
is, that he has opened to us this glorious spiritual land, and tells us to go over and possess
it. Dear brother, are you at Kadesh Barnea today, and afraid of the giants? God has given the
land to us. The message of reproof comes to you with this solemn and important question, "How
long are ye slack to go to possess the land which the Lord God of your fathers hath given you?"

This gospel of sanctification is preached to us today as the gospel of literal Canaan was preached
to those descendants of Abraham in that day. It did not profit them, not being mixed with faith
in them that heard it. The apostle says, "We which have believed do enter into rest," but more
must enter in. God's promise to Abraham must yet be more completely fulfilled. The question
is simply left with us, Will we enter in or will we not? If we will not, then the inheritance
will be given to others, and we will lose the blessed soul-rest that is provided in this redemption
for the people of God. In his exhortation to us, the apostle says "Let us labor therefore to
enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief."

     "Oh, this blessed holy rest,
      On my Jesus' loving breast.
      Oh, the sweetness and completeness
      Of perfected holiness."

CHAPTER VII

The Subtraction Process

The baptism with the Holy Ghost and fire, the entering into the heavenly inheritance of Canaan,
and the possession of the land, and all the blessings that follow are unmistakably a process
of addition to the already blessed experience of the justified soul. This addition is scripturally
termed "sanctification." No mortal language can ever express how much of an addition it is;
but there must necessarily precede this marvelous grace, a definite and absolute subtraction,
a loss of all things for the excellency of Christ, a complete self-abnegation, which has been
mentioned in a previous chapter upon consecration. Until this absolute loss of all things has
been truly experienced, there cannot be obtained the gain of this additional experience. We
cannot lay hold of the promised inheritance until we completely let go of everything else that
has been called our own.

There is, within our spiritual, moral, and physical nature, a depravity, "our old man," which
must be extracted before we can possess the purity of heart so plainly taught in the word of
God. This depravity is so deeply embedded in, and interwoven into, our affections and nature,
that, like a closely fitting garment, it seems a part of us; and were it not for the plain
teachings of the word of God, and the power of the all-cleansing blood of Christ which can
reach the inmost center of our nature, purging out all unnatural tendencies and unholy tempers,
the justified believer might conclude that this inborn depravity must be permitted to exist
and remain with us all through life. But thank God! there is a remedy in this great redemption
plan. The heart can be purified and become a holy temple for the indwelling of the Holy Ghost.
This depends upon the plainly specified conditions taught in the word of God. He will prepare
the temple for his abode if we but furnish him an absolute consecration of the temple. This
is our part in this preparatory stage of the work of sanctification. In order that he may purify
our nature, we must yield up to him everything that is to be purified. This process involves
the loss of all things; for when the heart is thus yielded, everything that it clings to is
also yielded, and then, and only then, can the blood of Christ be applied for a perfect cleansing.
This is where the subtraction work is effected, where every vestige of depravity is removed
from the heart; because it has for this purpose yielded to Jesus. The following scripture sets
forth this experience. It cannot be improved upon nor cultivated. It is sinful in nature, and
must be dealt with according to the redemption law of crucifixion. It is condemned and must
die. It is utterly worthless to God, and harmful to man; therefore, it must die. It clings
to life with remarkable tenacity, and it is not within the power of man alone to put it to
death. It has so entwined itself into our affections that they and each of their objects must
be absolutely yielded up to death, even the most sacred treasures of the heart; so that the
true work of purity may be perfectly wrought within us. To simply yield up our old man for
his destruction would be but a pleasant sacrifice; for every justified believer who has obtained
the knowledge of this enemy within becomes anxious for his destruction. It is not the yielding
up of our old man, therefore, that seems such a loss to us; but when we see that our whole
being, spirit, soul, and body, with every affection and its object, must be yielded up and
truly laid upon the altar, we realize the subtraction process of sanctification--the loss of
all things. Our old man cannot be crucified until everything is thus first yielded up. As long
as any one object of our affection is withheld, the consecration is incomplete and the affections
can not be purified from this depravity; hence the necessity of an absolute yielding up of
everything, to obtain the excellency of this heavenly grace. In this condition we can assuredly
experience the meaning of the words: "Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him,
that the body of sin might be destroyed." Thank God! this is a present-tense experience for
everyone who is willing to be conformed to the perfect will of God. In this condition, Jesus
can have the perfect right of way within, and work in us that which is well-pleasing in his sight.

Some one might wonder if we are never permitted in this truly consecrated condition, to set
our affections upon anything in this world, or, if we can possess anything as our own, if all
must be yielded up and laid upon the altar. If our affections and every object of the same
are yielded to Jesus, then we certainly cannot have them placed upon anything else. This is
one of the grand provisions of his grace. Jesus now gets between us and every object of our
affections. He not only has our affections, but he has the objects of our affections. In the
consciousness of this loss to us we also become conscious of the loss of our old, depraved
nature, and the gain of a glorious, heavenly purity which we before did not possess. But above
all things, we become conscious of the fact that Jesus has become enthroned within our hearts,
and now has full control of our entire being. In him we possess all things. He gives us back,
with himself, everything that is good for us: father, mother, brother, sister, and every God-given
blessing that we had yielded up to him. But they do not seem to us now like they did before.
There is something between us and them. What is it? It is Jesus! This makes every blessing
so much more precious to us now. A sacredness exists between us and our loved ones which we
never realized before. They now get our love only as they get it through Jesus, for he is between
us and them. Praise God for this precious experience! We gave everything, our all, for him.
He purified our hearts and now gives everything, his all, to us. Without the subtraction of
our all, first, we cannot obtain the addition, his all. Thus, after all, we lose nothing but
the depravity of our nature, which loss, of course, involves the loss of all things for the
time being, but means the gain of all things in the fullness of Christ.

The apostle Paul expresses this crucifixion in his testimony in Gal. There was something of
the apostle that was crucified. It was the same as he speaks of in Rom. 6:6, "our old man."
That depraved, carnal self, the proud, haughty Pharisee, the great Saul of Tarsus who considered
himself of such importance among men. This was the =I= that was crucified; but there was an
=I= who still lived. This was the humble, sanctified Paul, the servant of Jesus Christ, who
now considered himself less than the least of all saints, and not worthy to be called an apostle.
What a contrast between the two =I='s. The one, the big =I=; the other, the little =I=. They
are exactly of opposite natures. The one was Paul's "old man," the other his humble individual
self. Jesus and the big I cannot rule together in the same heart.

How many there are today who have not reached the death experience. They have had their sins
forgiven and realize that they are the children of God; but they cannot say that they are crucified
with Christ, in the sense of the actual death of their old man. How many there are who are
conscious of this inward foe, and yet are taught that it can never become dislodged from their
nature and crucified. Praise God! he has provided a remedy in the blood of Christ. By faith
in this blood the consecrated believer can receive the cleansing. The depraved nature is crucified,
and Christ now takes supreme control of the holy temple.

The language of the apostle in Gal. The blood of the cross has destroyed that inward nature
which was the point of contact with the world. As long as this exists within, the world has
a strong claim upon us, which, so long as it exists within us, will assert its nature, and,
if permitted, will communicate with the world, and cause defeat in our Christian life, so that
we cannot conscientiously say we are dead to the world: for there is something within us yet
that is actually alive in this respect. This is the point of inward contact with the world,
which, when brought into crucifixion, changes our inward condition and enables us to truly
say with the apostle, that the world is crucified unto us and we unto the world, by the blood
of the cross of Christ, and the life we now live in this mortal body, which is the temple of
the Holy Ghost, we live by the faith of the Son of God, who has all power to keep us in the
divine law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, which makes and keeps us free from the law
of sin and death.

In Matt. 15:13 we have this same doctrine of cleansing expressed in the words of Jesus: "Every
plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up." While it is true that
Jesus was speaking of the doctrines of the Pharisees in this instance, we can see beyond the
simple doctrines and traditions of men, which are but the outgrowth of this root of depravity
which our heavenly Father never planted in the nature of man. The depraved heart is the fertile
soil which spontaneously grows all these evil things which Jesus mentions in this parable.
The root is there, and so long as it remains, there cannot be a satisfactory Christian life.
But the heavenly decree has been uttered by the Redeemer himself, that this plant shall be
rooted up, which rooting up can be testified to by thousands of blood-washed saints today.
Many plain scriptures teach us that this experience of heart purity was a recognized fact in
the apostolic days. Jesus taught that it was attainable and told of its blessings when in Matt.
5:8 he speaks of the pure in heart. John writes: "And every man that hath this hope in him
purifieth himself, even as he is pure." Paul says that "the end of the commandment is charity
out of a pure heart" (1 Tim. 1:5), and in the same letter he writes: "Holding the mystery of
the faith in a pure conscience."--Chap. 3:9. Also in Chap. In Chap. 5:22, he says, "Keep thyself
pure." In 2 Tim. 3:3.

All these plain texts set forth the doctrines of cleansing beyond question. Then when Peter
takes the witness-stand (Acts 15:9) and testifies that he and all the one hundred twenty at
Pentecost, and afterward the household of Cornelius, received the cleansing at the time of
the outpouring upon them of the Holy Spirit, we must acknowledge that God certainly is no respecter
of persons, and has the same measure of grace for his people in this evening time of the gospel
day. Praise his holy name! Let us magnify and exalt the power of the all-cleansing blood, for
it can reach beyond the inmost depths of our fallen nature and wash us whiter than snow.

     "The cleansing stream, I see, I see,
         I plunge, and oh, it cleanseth me
      Oh, praise the Lord, it cleanseth me!
         It cleanseth me, yes, cleanseth me."

CHAPTER VIII

Christian Perfection

Definition of =perfection=: Unblemished, blameless, pure.

We are commanded to be perfect. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven
is perfect."--Matt. 5:48. "For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this also
we wish, even your perfection. Finally, brethren, farewell. "Therefore leaving the principles
of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection."--Heb. 6:1.

We must be perfect in love. "But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected:
hereby know we that we are in him."--1 John 2:5.

Perfect in unity.

Perfect in Christ. "And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power."

Perfect in purity. 3:12, 13.

This perfection is attainable. "Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and
if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you."--Phil. 3:15. 7:19.
"Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices,
that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience."--Heb. 9:9.

A perfection not attainable in this life. "Not as though I had already attained, either were
already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended
of Christ Jesus."

Christian perfection is not maturity in wisdom, grace, or knowledge. 3:17, 18.

Christian perfection is looked upon by some as an impossibility in this life; but when we turn
to the word of God and see the many plain texts upon the subject, it must become evident to
every candid mind that it is in the plan of redemption that every child of God should attain
to it. It would not be according to the nature of divine grace to require of us anything we
could not do. No reasonable earthly parent would demand an impossibility of a child, and it
is certain our heavenly Father would not command us to be "perfect even as he is perfect" unless
he has provided abundant grace to bring us up to this blessed experience. According to our
own power or ability we could never reach such an exalted plane, for it is not within the power
of man to change his depraved nature, and every self-effort to reach a state of perfection
is but vain. But God is able to make all grace abound and as an All-wise Father he has made
it possible that we should be perfect.

From the scriptures quoted we can plainly see that the perfection required of us is reasonable
and just. Had he commanded us to be perfect in knowledge, wisdom, judgment, or in anything
else in an absolute sense, we would be forced to the conclusion that God has either required
an impossibility of us or it is not for us to attain in this life and therefore belongs only
to the resurrected state. But we can clearly see the nature of his requirements and that they
are all within the limits of his grace toward us in this life.

When Jesus commanded us to be perfect (Matt. 5:48) we can quite easily comprehend his meaning
when we notice in the few preceding verses that we should be perfect in love, even to the extent
that we shall love our enemies, that we may indeed be the children of our Father which is in
heaven. The children of this world love those that love them. It is an easy matter and quite
natural to do this. But to love our enemies is very contrary to the depraved nature; unless
there has been the cleansing wrought within, there will be some inward consciousness of hatred
toward those who despitefully use and persecute us. The high standard of righteousness which
Jesus teaches here and throughout this chapter is the standard of sanctification. The love
of God must be perfected in us, which destroys every element of the old nature, of which hatred
is a prominent characteristic. This commandment was given during the old dispensation; but
it was not possible then that it could be kept perfectly, for there was no provision then made
to destroy the power of, and cleanse the heart from, inbred depravity. The blood of those sacrifices
could do no more than sanctify "to the purifying of the flesh." The inward condition of the
heart could not be changed. Thus we see clearly that this commandment could not be kept in
the New Testament sense of perfect love. Now, the blood of Jesus, which he shed on the cross
that he might sanctify and cleanse our hearts, can make us holy. Praise God for his wonderful
love to us! He furnishes the love with which to love him. If we but give him our hearts he
will furnish all the rest. He wants an empty, clean vessel into which to pour out his love,
that it may be manifested in this dark and sinful world.

Oh, that every child of God could see the imperative need of an absolute consecration and then
cheerfully and voluntarily meet the conditions of the same, so that God could fill each heart
with love, and cause each one to know what it means to love God with all our heart. As long
as our affections are divided between God and anything else, our love is not perfect and until
the regenerate heart has made the scriptural consecration, there will be a divided condition
of the affections. The obedient regenerate heart dwells in God, and thus is taught of God the
necessity of the perfect consecration, which, when fully complied with, enables the perfect
cleansing to become effected. The apostle John says, "Herein is our love made perfect," and
"his love is perfected in us."

No one can ever be fully satisfied in this redemption life until this second work of grace
is accomplished in the heart. Justification brings us into the blessed kingdom of God's love.
Sanctification perfects his love in us. This second grace enables us to realize not only the
meaning of perfect love, but we also comprehend the glorious fact that God has wrought in us
perfect purity and holiness. This implies our being perfect in God's will, and because we have
yielded our will completely to him. Every disposition of our will which sought its own way
is now in perfect conformity with his and as Jesus could say in Gethsemane, "Thy will be done,"
which meant death on Calvary to him, so we have said the same to God with a vivid consciousness
that once for all it meant death to us. It has required the perfect will of Jesus to obtain
this grace of sanctification for us, and it now requires our perfect will to receive it from
him. Here is where we can stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. Another beautiful
characteristic of sanctification is perfect unity. One of the most striking features of the
religious world today is division among those who profess to believe in and follow Christ.
There is no greater evil existing than this. Men have made creeds and sects and have persuaded
the people to join them, until the disgusting spectacle of division is seen everywhere, and
the non-professing world is amazed at the sickening sight. Hireling preachers are pleading
for their respective denominations, and while many honest children of God are dissatisfied
with this sad state of affairs, they are taught from the pulpit that God has made these divisions
and it is the duty of every Christian to join and support them. But such is not the will of
God; he has designed that his people should all be one, and in his prayer Jesus expresses the
extent of this unity. "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee,
that they also may be one in us." This certainly implies a wonderful and perfect unity. Many
sect advocates cry, "Impossible, impossible; God's people cannot be one." But the whole theme
of Jesus' prayer is unity. As we carefully read this prayer we can readily perceive the divine
method to effect this unity. It is plain and simple: "Sanctify them through thy truth: thy
word is truth.... Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on
me through their word; that they all may be one." Then in Heb. 2:11 we see again that this
is God's plan--"For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one."

This grace not only brings us into a perfect inward unity with Jesus himself, but it just as
truly brings us all into a perfect inward unity with each other. Divisions, sects, and factions
are productions of the flesh (Gal. 5:19-21) and not of the Spirit. Sanctification destroys
all the works of the flesh and extracts the very root itself and renders divisions impossible.
Every sect yoke is destroyed because of the anointing. Isa. 10:27. It is the work of the Holy
Spirit to effect this unity in us with God and with each other. Every human effort to accomplish
this must necessarily end in failure. There are many efforts today to effect a union among
Christians, but union is not scriptural unity. Union of sects is far from the scriptural unity
of believers. A union consists upon a human basis and may consist of a union of sects, or a
union of individuals, without any conditions of spirituality whatever. Each individual or body
retaining its distinctive and separate division. Scriptural unity is based upon the inner-wrought
grace of sanctification, where everything non-spiritual is entirely destroyed and the Holy
Spirit has the right of way in every respect according to the perfect will of God.

It is only as we are thus perfected in this grace that the prayer of Jesus will be fully answered
and his people lose every vestige of division. No sanctified heart can remain loyal to anything
that separates the people of God. All sect holiness is below the Bible standard, for it upholds
that which sanctification destroys. This is a far-reaching assertion, but in the light of God's
word it is true. Many have lost this experience by listening to the perverted teachings of
false shepherds and remaining in sectism. God says the "anointing" breaks and destroys the
yoke, and no sect yoke will ever again fit on the neck of a sanctified person, if such remains
loyal to the Holy Spirit. Praise God! He alone can effect perfect unity in us, by his divine
process--sanctification. Then by the careful adherence to the teachings of God's word this
beautiful apostolic unity can be maintained and demonstrated among men, and the prayer of Jesus
further answered, "That the world may believe that thou hast sent me."

=The difference between present and future perfection.= In his letter to the church at Philippi,
the apostle speaks of a perfection in the future, which unless understood may confuse some
minds upon this subject. In Phil. 3:12 he writes, "Not as though I had already attained, either
were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am
apprehended of Christ Jesus." Here it sounds as though perfection is not attainable in this
life, but if we notice the language of the context we can clearly see that he is speaking of
the resurrection of the dead. Ver. 11. It is the resurrection perfection that he here has reference
to, which cannot be attained in this life. But in verse 15 he says, "Let us therefore as many
as be perfect be thus minded," showing that there is a present perfection which he, with others,
has already attained. This is the experience which it is the will of God for us all to enjoy.
For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Dear reader, have you
attained it, or are you yet living beneath your blood-bought privilege? 13:20, 21. 15:11.

=God must be worshiped in holiness.= "Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name: bring
an offering and come before him: worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness."--1 Chron. 16:29.
"Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness."--Psa.
30:4.

=God's throne and dwelling-place.= "God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne
of his holiness."--Psa. 47:8. 57:15. "Be silent, O all flesh, before the Lord: for he is raised
up out of his holy habitation."--Zech. 2:13. "Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation
of thy holiness and thy glory."--Isa. 63:15.

=Holiness becomes God's house.= "Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house,
O Lord, forever."--Psa. 93:5. "The aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh
holiness."--Titus 2:3.

=The church of God is called a mountain of holiness.= "The Lord bless thee, O habitation of
justice, and mountain of holiness."--Jer. 31:23. 8:3.

=God speaks in holiness.= "God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice."--Psa. 60:6. 23:9.

=The courts of holiness.= "But they that have gathered it shall eat it, and praise the Lord;
and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness."--Isa.
62:9. 26:18, 19. 4:7. "For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure;
but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness."--Heb. 12:10.

The foregoing scriptures are but a few out of the many plain texts from the word of God teaching
us the glorious doctrine of holiness. Some professing Christians look upon this doctrine as
unscriptural and impracticable, but in the light of the gospel of Christ there is no other
doctrine taught than holiness. The very fact that God, and Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit,
the word of God, and heaven, and all the celestial hosts are holy, at once suggests to every
reasonable mind the utter necessity of holiness in the heart and life of man. The apostle says
(Eph. 2:10) that "we are his workmanship, created in Jesus Christ unto good works."

Were we to look upon depraved humanity in the image of Adam, we would see nothing but sin and
unholiness; but God has brought into existence a new order of creation in Christ Jesus. The
first Adam is a sad and irreparable failure, and in him we see nothing good. All who are living
according to the flesh are dead in trespasses and sins, and of course are unholy; but the second
Adam, which is Christ has brought redemption and life, in whom there is purity and holiness.
The old man is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, which =must be put off=. The new man
is created in righteousness and true holiness, which =must be put on=. The reason some do not
comprehend the doctrine of holiness is, they are yet living in the old creation, hence their
nature and mind are corrupt. It is utterly impossible for such to be holy in this condition.
The command, "Be ye holy," does not apply to them. They are not God's people. The first step
for such to take is to repent, which if they obey they will be brought into the kingdom of
God's holiness; into the new creation, the workmanship of God in Christ Jesus. Bless the Lord,
O my soul, for this new creation of purity and holiness. All the living creatures of heaven
bow before him that sitteth upon the throne, saying, Holy, holy, holy! and every sanctified
heart on earth can join the blessed anthem of praise and adoration with the consciousness that
the all-cleansing blood of Christ has reached its inmost depth and purified it for the habitation
of the heavenly guest, the Holy Spirit. The pure heart is God's dwelling-place on earth. Jesus
says (John 14:23) "If a man love me, he will keep my words and my Father will love him, and
we will come unto him, and make our abode with him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus we see that God not only dwells in the high and holy heaven, but also upon earth in the
hearts of his obedient people. Who could consistently believe that God would dwell in a corrupt
heart? "He shall be in you," is the promise of Jesus. "At that day [the day when the Holy Spirit
comes into the heart], ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you." Oh,
the depths of the riches of this wonderful redemption, that God would forgive the guilty sinner,
then purify his heart and make it his earthly abode. This is his will toward every son and
daughter of Adam's race. This can be called none other than the way of holiness. It is God's
own way, and is truly a highway too high for anything unclean to pass over. It is on a perfect
level with heaven itself, and yet it is a highway here upon earth for all the ransomed of the
Lord to travel upon. It is so plain and simple that no one need be led astray. The wayfaring
men though fools, shall not err therein. A wayfaring man means one who is on the way, one who
lives on the way. A seafaring man is one who lives on the sea. This way is so safe that though
a man may be simple in the estimation of the world, and may be called a fool, yet if he keeps
obedient to God he shall not be led astray. "No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast
shall go up thereon." This indicates a very safe way, where we need not fear any evil. Everything
of the flesh or the old man is ruled out, and none but the redeemed shall walk there. We see
therefore from the description of the prophet that this is a highway, a clean way, a simple
way, a safe way, a way of songs and everlasting joy, which necessarily constitutes a way of
holiness.

This is the way upon which the people of God are truly returning to Zion. This Zion is the
scriptural name of the church of God. The people of God have been led into captivity of ecclesiastical
bondage (Babylon), and the pure light of the gospel of holiness has been darkened by the creeds
and doctrines of men, but God is revealing to his own that sanctification is a Bible doctrine;
they seek for, and obtain it, and thereby every sectarian yoke is broken, his people find themselves
upon this highway of holiness and at home in Zion, the church, free from the bondage of sectism.
This is the work of God himself, and will not cease until every one of his people are brought
home to Zion, upon the way of holiness. This is the highway that is left for the remnant of
his people. Isa. 11:16. This remnant shall be gathered out of all the creeds of men into the
one fold, into the true unity of Christ. "For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified
are all of one."

The prophet foresaw this blessed return of the people of God and tells us "they shall call
them, The holy people." There are some who call themselves holiness people, but the prophet
says we shall be called, "The holy people." Holiness factions and sects have actually sprung
into existence, which declare that sectism and division is necessary. This class of holiness
is not that described in the foregoing scriptures. Bible holiness will in every individual
instance destroy everything out of men's hearts that separates or divides. Divisions are the
outgrowth of carnality and not of the Spirit of God. Every profession of holiness, therefore,
which sanctions division and sectism cannot possibly be the holiness of the Bible. This may
seem to some a strong assertion, but it will stand the test of the word of God.

No scriptural unity will ever be effected among the people of God outside the experience of
sanctification. Men have repeatedly laid other foundations, but all to no avail. It is a source
of great satisfaction to know that wherever the Holy Spirit has the right of way in the hearts
of men, there is found true apostolic unity, both in spirit and in doctrine. This is a well
authenticated fact which is demonstrated in thousands of hearts today. The apostle teaches
us, in Heb. 12:10, that God imparts unto us his holiness: we are partakers of it. It is not
an experience which we by our efforts can attain to, but upon the clearly defined conditions
of his word we come into possession of his holiness. It is all wrought within us by himself.
Bible holiness is truly an imported article directly from God out of heaven. Some imported
goods in this country are much more expensive and of better quality than those of home manufacture.
Many of our people prefer to pay the extra expense in order to obtain the better quality, and
usually are abundantly satisfied with their purchase. This may serve to illustrate this blessed
holiness of the Bible. Men's professions are sometimes like an inferior homemade piece of goods.
It soon wears threadbare and betrays its quality, but the genuine imported article of Bible
holiness proves satisfactory in every respect, and the more it is worn the better it becomes.
It has cost us everything, but it proves to be worth more than everything to us. The reason
why some people have failed to get it is, they are unwilling to pay the price. They are deceived
by the false doctrine that they do not need to consecrate their all, and hence have accepted
a holiness manufactured by man, a homemade article which will never stand the test. A definite,
absolute consecration to the loss of all things will never fail to procure the genuine article
of true Bible holiness, which will stand the wear of every trial of life and the test of the
judgment.

       *       *       *       *       *

This beautiful analogy teaches us an important lesson. The standard of sanctification is clearly
exemplified in the relation between the vine and the branches. Christ is the vine, and every
individual Christian is an individual branch; every branch is an individual member of the vine,
and every Christian is an individual member of Christ.

       *       *       *       *       *

What a clear view of the church, and how plainly we can see that there is but one. Every regenerate
soul is by one Spirit baptized into this one body. This vine is cared for and kept by God himself,
who is the husbandman. Every branch must be a living, fruit-bearing one. It is placed into
the vine by the hand which will care for it, and give it every necessary treatment to cause
it to bring forth much fruit. If it bears fruit it will be kept in the vine; if it does not
bear fruit it will be taken away. The same life which flows through the vine also flows into
the branches. It is the branches that bear the fruit. It is the part of the vine to sustain
the branches, and the part of the branches to bear fruit. The fruit is the production of the
vine-life in the branches. The word of God teaches us that Christ is pure and holy, and in
Rom. 11:16 we are taught that if the root be holy, so are the branches. The manner of the induction
of the branches into the vine is illustrated by the process of grafting. We are not grown into
Christ, but grafted into him. The natural branches of a vine grow out of the vine, and accordingly
bear the vine-fruit, but by grace we are grafted into Christ, the vine, and bear the vine-fruit.

A certain writer who advocates the repression theory of sanctification says: "But if I want
a tree wholly made good I take it when young and, cutting the stem off on the ground, I graft
just where it emerges from the soil; I watch over every bud which the old nature could possibly
put forth until the flow of sap from the old roots into the new stem is so complete that the
old life has, as it were, been entirely conquered and covered of the new. Now I have a tree
entirely renewed--emblem of a Christian who has learned in entire consecration to surrender
everything for Christ, and in a whole-hearted faith wholly to abide in him. If in this case
the old tree were a reasonable being that could co-operate with the gardener, what would the
gardener's language be to it? Would it not be this: 'Yield now thyself entirely to this new
nature with which I have invested thee; repress every tendency of the old nature to give buds
or sprouts; let all thy sap and all thy life-powers rise up into this graft from yonder beautiful
tree which I have put on thee, so shalt thou bring forth sweet and much fruit.' And the language
of the tree to the gardener would be: 'When thou graftest me, oh, spare not a single branch,
let everything of the old self, even the smallest bud, be destroyed, that I may no longer live
in my own, but in that other life that was cut off and brought and put upon me that I might
be wholly new and good.' And once again, could you afterwards ask the renewed tree, as it was
bearing abundant fruit, what it could say of itself, its answer would be this: 'In me (that
is, my roots) there dwelleth no good thing; I am ever inclined to evil; the sap I collect from
the soil is in its nature corrupt, and ready to show itself in bearing evil fruit. But just
where the sap rises into the sunshine to ripen into fruit, the wise gardener hath clothed me
with a new life through which my sap is purified and all my powers are renewed to the bringing
forth of good fruit.'"

This author has entirely reversed the scriptural order of grafting in his application of the
graft and root, and has illustrated the relation of Christ and the believer by the natural
grafting process which can in no sense scripturally apply to this holy relation. Christ is
the vine or root, and not the graft. The natural process of grafting is to graft the good graft
into a poor root. The graft will grow into a tree and bear the same kind of fruit as the tree
from which it was taken, and thus the gardener increases the production of good fruit. But
the divine process of grafting is just the reverse. In Rom. 11:24 the apostle says we are grafted
into the olive tree (Christ) "contrary to nature." The husbandman takes the penitent sinner
out of the kingdom of darkness and translates him into the kingdom of his dear Son. In this
regeneration process the sinner (the graft) that was sinful and bore fruit is by God's own
process grafted into Christ, the holy vine, and from thence to bear holy fruit. This is certainly
a great mystery, like all the works of God's grace, and is indeed contrary to nature, but in
perfect conformity with the plan of redemption.

Now, in this condition, there is a certain requirement of the graft necessary that it may bear
the vine-fruit; it must =abide= in the vine. This abiding requires a careful watchfulness lest
there might be some sprout of the old inward nature, which yet exists within the newly grafted
branch, which would spring up and hinder the perfect fruit-bearing of the vine-life. And in
this early life, in this new relation of the branch with the vine, it is an attested fact that
in quantity this fruit production is more or less hindered by the presence of the old inward
nature, in the branch, which if permitted to sprout and grow would certainly prevent the growth
of the vine-fruit entirely, and thereby cause the branch to be cut off. That the branch is
in the vine there can be no question, for its environments are completely changed and it finds
itself a stranger to all of its former associations, customs, and habits. That the vine-life
is in the branch there can equally be no question, for the branch has the inward consciousness
bearing witness that it belongs to the vine, and it enjoys the sweet fellowship of the vine
and all its branches. Also it bears the vine-fruit which brings upon itself the approval of
the husbandman.

But this early and new relationship is only the justified life of the branch. The standard
of sanctification of the author from whom we have just quoted is in no respect any higher than
this, and were it not that there is a higher standard taught in this lesson and in many other
scriptures, we would have to be satisfied with justification only.

"Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit." This
purging is another process quite contrary to nature, for the term signifies an inward cleansing.
A vine-dresser can prune or trim a branch and thereby practically make it clean outwardly from
all unnecessary or harmful sprouts which would hinder it from bearing fruit, but there is no
known natural process by which the grafted branch could have its inward conditions changed
which would affect its nature.

We can see clearly that the entire process of grafting the inferior branch into the good root,
and the subsequent purging is wholly contrary to nature, for no man with an object of profit
would do any such grafting, neither could anyone reasonably expect the inward conditions of
such a graft to become changed.

This purging is wrought within for the purpose of an increase of holy fruit. How beautifully
it pictures the experience of sanctification, and subsequent work wrought in the soul of the
justified fruit-bearing child of God. It is not a pruning of any unholy sprouts, for they are
to be wholly kept from sprouting in the process of the life of bearing holy fruit in this justified
relation. The branch is now bearing the very fruit of the holy root, but there is something
to be done in it that it may bring forth more fruit; it must be purged from its inward depraved
dispositions which it possessed from its parent stock--its "old man ... that the body of sin
might be destroyed." Before the purging there was much time and energy occupied in keeping
its depraved nature from sprouting. The holy nature of the root was indeed being manifested
in the production of holy fruit which was a source of satisfaction, but there was that inward
consciousness of an unfavorable condition which hindered the root-life from producing in the
branch the quantity necessary to the perfect satisfaction of the husbandman, the vine or the
branch.

But now what a glorious change: the old nature is entirely gone, and the sweet soul-rest which
the purged branch now enjoys is beyond the power of mortal to express; it can now repose itself
so sweetly in the holy vine in its perfectly consecrated life, without any inward hindrance
to a perfect flow of the vine-life through its entire being. It can now bring forth more fruit,
for every energy from the root is sent direct into the fruit-buds of the branch, and the result
is glorious. This purging is just what perfects the inward harmony of the branch with the vine.
It could not continue very long in the abiding condition without a consciousness of the need
of the purging process. This process becomes a necessity to every branch which abides. "He
that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit," which is equivalent
to the text, "Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more
fruit." It is purged that it may bring forth "more fruit," and now the object of purging is
realized, it brings forth "much fruit." Thank God for the purging, the subsequent work in the
heart!

The apostles had not yet received this experience. They were clean through the word which Jesus
had spoken unto them, to the extent of their knowledge and experience. Unquestionably they
were clean from guilt and condemnation, for they were taken out from the world--were no more
of it, and the world hated them. They were living in perfect obedience to all the known word
of God and were clean through that word, but they had not had the pentecostal purging, "purifying
their hearts by faith," as Peter himself testifies of the sanctification of himself and all
who were at Pentecost, as well as the experience of Cornelius and his household.

Truly we have much reason to praise God for his wonderful grace in which he brings man, his
fallen creature, into such a position that he may become a son of God, then made pure from
all the depraved dispositions of his fallen nature.

CHAPTER XI

Some Helpful Thoughts on Consecration

The experience of sanctification is obtained upon the conditions of definite consecration and
faith. In every consecration the soul reaches a point where it must either go through to the
death, or else go back and lose the grace of God entirely. The Holy Spirit will make it plain
what this death implies, and at last the dying soul goes through its last struggle and yields
up its last treasure. When this point is reached and passed, the Holy Spirit will bear witness
that the demands of God are now fully met. When Moses had completed the work of building the
tabernacle and had placed everything in its proper order, as God commanded him, it is said
that "Moses finished the work." So it can be said of us and so each of us can personally testify
by the witness of the Spirit bearing witness with our spirit in this absolute and definite
consecration, that we have "finished the work." Every doubt as to the completion of this consecration
is banished, and has no room to exist in our hearts, for we know that it is complete. We can
so sweetly and willingly say, "Thy will be done," with a most delightful consciousness that
all the past, present, and future, of all that pertains to our life, is yielded up to his blessed
will. Nothing on earth is held half so sweet and precious as his will.

We can realize down deep in our souls what Jesus meant when he gave himself to sanctify us
and said, "I come to do thy will." We can enter into the fellowship of his sufferings and death,
for all that we have and are, and all that we expect to be in the future, and all that we know
and ever expect to know, are now forever and eternally yielded up to that precious will of
God. It required the will of Jesus to be yielded up to death to do the will of the Father that
we might be sanctified, and it equally requires our will to be yielded up to death and the
loss of all things, that we might be sanctified. It required his will even to the death to
obtain it for us, and it requires our will even to death to receive it from him. Yes, dear
reader, a real death; so real that it includes everything, and it can only be said of us as
it was said of the Colossian saints, "Ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God."

This death consecration is beautifully typified in the consecration and sanctification of the
priests of the Old Testament dispensation. In Lev. 8 we read that Moses was commanded of the
Lord to take Aaron and his sons and three animals with him. The blood of one of these animals
was to be shed for the sin-offering; one for the "burnt offering," and one for the "consecration"
offering. The blood of each was shed and applied separately for a special purpose. Each finds
its antitype in the precious blood of Jesus, who offered himself without spot to God that he
might sanctify the church. The blood of the sin-offering provides for that part of our nature
which would naturally reach out and cling to those things which are sinful. In every justified
heart which is not yet wholly sanctified there exists such a principle which in itself is depraved
and sinful, and were it permitted to respond to the sinful things without, it would bring the
believers into transgression. This is the "body of sin," or "our old man," which according
to the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, must be destroyed and cleansed out. This
existing in the heart, if unrestrained, is the fruitful soil out of which grows every evil
work. We can see its productions in many different aspects in the religious world today. Every
sect on earth is a production of this body of sin. Every manifestation of carnal division is
some of its evil fruits. Everything that is in the least degree contrary to the pure word of
God, whether it be word or deed, is but the outgrowth of this evil thing, which was created
and planted into the hearts of Adam and Eve by the devil, and has become the dominating characteristic
of depraved humanity. Justification does not cleanse this out of the heart. It only takes away
the guilt and trespasses of the sinner, and brings him into the favor of God, who gave his
Son a "trespass-offering" for the world. But Jesus gave himself a "sin-offering" for the church,
and when the heart has yielded up to the death for the destruction of this depravity it can
truly be said of such an one that we are dead to sin, for the blood of Jesus in this sin-offering
will most certainly effect this cleansing.

But a true Bible consecration includes something more than a yielding up of the heart for the
cleansing out of this sin principle. In the type, we see there was another animal sacrificed
in this consecration service. It was the one for the "burnt offering." The blood of this sacrifice
corresponds with the sacrifice of the blood of Jesus which also provides for the cleansing
of that part of our nature that clings to the things of life which in themselves are not sinful
but are God-given blessings. Our unsanctified affections must also become purified from every
taint of depravity. That this may be accomplished, it becomes necessary that the heart yield
up to the death every cherished object, even though it be a God-given blessing; it must be
yielded up and laid upon the altar as a "burnt offering." The affections cannot be purified
until the object of the affections is yielded. This means that we willingly lay upon the altar
our loved ones, no matter how sacred or precious they may be--father, mother, brother, sister,
husband, wife, children, home, property, reputation, and everything within the scope of our
earthly existence. All henceforth and forever yielded up to God, no more to be ours, as really
and as perfectly as though we were breathing our last upon our death-bed, and then in due time
we were laid into our coffin, the lid fastened down, and lowered into the grave, the grave
filled up and nothing left but a mound to mark where our earthly remains lie. Or, to view the
subject from another standpoint, this yielding up must be as real as though our loved ones
and every cherished treasure of earth were laid upon the altar, to be offered up a burnt sacrifice.
In due time the fire will be kindled, and our cherished objects will one by one be consumed
into smoke and finally all will disappear, a consumed sacrifice unto the Lord.

A quarter of a century ago my own precious mother was brought to this consecration. She was
shown by the Holy Spirit that she did not have her children perfectly yielded up to the Lord.
She was praying for their conversion. At last she became willing to lay them upon the altar
and she did it thoroughly. She gave them to the Lord a living sacrifice. In a short time her
four oldest were converted, and in due time the two others as they grew up were also brought
into the fold of Christ. She rejoiced and praised God for this and often expressed herself
that her children were not her own, they were the Lord's, for his service or sacrifice, just
as he should see proper. At last this consecration was brought to the test. The Lord began
to kindle the fire to consume the "burnt offering." He laid his hand upon one and took her
home to heaven. Then another, and sent him thousands of miles away to preach the gospel in
regions beyond. Then another, and sent him far distant in another direction to labor in the
gospel vineyard. Then another, and sent her still another direction to publish the word of
God; and as these cherished objects thus vanished out of her sight she could say, "They are
the Lord's, not mine." In one of her letters she wrote me these words: "Well, my dear boy,
I truly realized what it meant years ago to lay my dear children upon the altar of the Lord:
but now I realize what it means to see them consumed into smoke."

Dear brother and sister, this is what a burnt offering means, and how good our heavenly Father
is to require this sacrifice of us! Oh, how many sad heartaches it saves us! How many bitter
tears of anguish and sorrow! I have stood at the open grave where a poor grief-stricken mother
wrung her hands and cried out, "Oh, I cannot, I cannot give up my precious darling. Let me
be buried with it--I cannot be parted from it!" I have also stood at another grave, where the
form of a consecrated loved one was sinking out of human sight. The mother stood gazing at
the object of earth as it was laid back to dust, then with her eyes turned toward heaven she
said, "Dear Lord, thou hast only taken thine own to thyself; my heart feels the parting pangs,
but I say willingly, 'Thy will be done.'"

Ah, what a contrast! The one mother knew nothing of this blessed consecration, the other did.
The one had but little grace to sustain her in her bereavement, the other had the abounding
grace, for she had already yielded up her sacred treasures to the Lord. The one buried all
her comfort and hope in the grave, the other simply buried a lifeless form of clay; though
sacred and precious to her heart, yet she had consecrated it to the Lord, and now in seeing
it vanish out of her sight, she could feel that it was not her own. The one returned to her
empty home with her heart full of sorrow, the other returned in the comfort of Him who comforteth
us in all our tribulations. She had paid the price of =her all=, and now she enjoys the blessing
of =Jesus' all=--the abiding of his glorious presence, which comforts her heart and home, and
fills the emptiness with himself and his bountiful grace.

Oh, how beautiful and reasonable to consecrate everything that our affections have held sacred
and dear, to him. We all know very well that all these treasures of earth are of no enduring
substance. No matter how much they may be to us, they in due time will either vanish out of
our sight, or else we will have to leave them. How much better, and how much more satisfactory
it is to yield them all up to Jesus, to whom they rightly belong, and who has only loaned them
to us in the first place. He is justly entitled to all of our affections, for what has he not
yielded up that was due to himself, that he might purchase this glorious grace for us? Now
he wants the supremacy in our hearts' affections, so that he can fashion us according to himself
through and through, and impart his own nature into our affections, that we may henceforth
love with his love, those sacred treasures around which our affections have so entwined, and
claimed as ours. Before our consecration we loved him, but these other objects of our love
were between us and him. They hindered our love towards him, and equally hindered his love
from perfectly flowing into our hearts. We loved him, and realized that he loved us, but it
was not perfect; there were objects in our way, and there were objects in his way. These objects
were our sacred treasures. Depravity had affected our affections so that we could not hold
these treasures as we should. But now what a satisfactory change! We yielded all these objects
to him, and took him in their stead. Now he occupies the place. He owns our treasures, and
we own him. But what of our treasures? We have them all back again, through him. Before our
consecration, they were between us and him. Now he is between us and them, and with him he
freely gives us all things. He can use all of these things according to his own good pleasure,
making any disposition of them which might seem good in his sight, for they are his, not ours.
If he should place us over them as his stewards, then we hold them in trust for him and do
with them just as he orders, and when, one by one, they consume away on the altar of his service,
or, if according to his sovereign will, he shall remove them out of our sight, we can say,
"Amen, Lord, thy will be done."

Now, in the act of Bible consecration, the believer may not realize all of this, and the utmost
depth of the cleansing that has been wrought in the heart and affections, or the difference
between the sin-offering and the burnt offering, but it will not be long afterward, until the
knowledge of this cleansing shall begin to dawn upon us and our soul becomes more and more
enraptured in this glorious experience of sanctification. But we see in the type still another
animal to be slain--the consecration offering. The blood of this animal was applied to the
body of Aaron and his sons. First it was put upon the tips of their right ears, the thumbs
of their right hands, and the great toes of their right feet. Then afterwards it was sprinkled
with the anointing oil upon Aaron and his garments too, and upon his sons and their garments.
This ceremonial process was the completion of their sanctification. The blood of this consecration
offering corresponds with the blood of Jesus which provides for the sanctification of our body.
In this consecration we not only offer up our hearts and affections to Jesus, but we also present
our bodies a living sacrifice. This includes our all, spirit, soul and body. Our ears, hands,
and feet, our entire physical being, is dedicated henceforth to his service, to labor and suffer
hardships, to be used in sacrifice, or service, either at the martyrs' stake or on the gospel
altar, any way, and every way, in which he may order it for his own honor and glory. These
eyes shall see, this tongue shall speak, this mind shall think, these ears shall hear, these
hands shall labor, these feet shall run, this strength and these energies, this heart shall
beat, every faculty, organ, and appetite shall be used only for him, who has so freely given
himself for us; and thus this body becomes the temple, and the earthly dwelling-place of the
Holy Ghost, his own exclusive dedicated property. While it is not possible that we could itemize
these things in the consecration of our bodies, there is a yielding up of our all which sweeps
the scope and brings the witness of the Spirit that our consecration is complete and we have
"finished the work." We are now upon believing grounds, and faith can appropriate the power
of the all-cleansing blood.

     "By faith I venture on his word,
         My doubts are o'er, the vict'ry won,
      He said the altar sanctifies,
         I just believe him and 'tis done."

CHAPTER XII

Questions and Answers

Question. How may we know definitely that we are sanctified?

Answer. We may know it by knowing that we have met all the conditions. This grace is obtained
upon the conditions of consecration and faith. When we are sure that we have measured up to
a true Bible consecration, we will have no difficulty in knowing that we are sanctified. The
depth of meaning of this consecration does not necessarily need to be fully comprehended by
the seeker, as we enter into this covenant, but there is a yielding up of ourself and entire
all, to the known and unknown will of God, to an extent that covers everything. God knows when
we have reached and passed this point, and it will not be long before the Holy Spirit will
definitely witness to us that the consecration is complete, and the covenant ratified by this
glorious indwelling consciousness.

This consecration may be illustrated by the contract and union of holy matrimony. When the
bride and groom enter into the covenant according to God's word, they have little knowledge
of the obligations they are taking upon themselves. They know nothing of the detailed realities
of life; its joys and sorrows, hardships and trials that are before them; but they know that
they dearly love each other, and have not the slightest fear in yielding themselves to each
other completely and exclusively, so long as they both shall live. They enter into this covenant
with all good confidence that the object of their love will not require anything hard or impossible,
and as the future realities of life unfold and one by one they meet the many responsibilities
that the covenant implies, they find that their love is equal to the responsibility, and as
long as they continue to love each other they will never have the slightest disposition to
break that marriage covenant.

So the heart which makes the consecration for sanctification will not comprehend the great
scope of its meaning at the time of entering into this covenant, but if we love Jesus as we
should we will not fear what he may require of us in the details of his will in the future.
We are already enraptured with his love. He has proved himself to be a loving and faithful
Redeemer in dying for us, and now as we see he requires us to yield ourselves even to death
for him, we can confidently enter into the conditions of this covenant with the assurance that
he will demand nothing of us beyond the power of the love to fulfill.

Yes, we will know definitely when our consecration is complete, and then we will have no trouble
to believe in the promises for the cleansing. As Bible repentance is the believing ground for
justification, so Bible consecration is the believing ground for sanctification.

Ques. How may we keep sanctified?

Ans. By abiding in the conditions by which we obtained the experience. As long as our consecration
remains intact, and our faith remains firm in the promises, we are sanctified, no matter what
the assertions of our feelings may be. To cease believing will forfeit our experience.

Ques. If Jesus was not sanctified until his death, how can we be?

Ans. Jesus was sanctified before his death. He testifies to it in John 10:36. There is a sense
in which he was sanctified by his death; that is, he became a perfect redeemer by his death.
He set himself apart for this specific purpose. This is the meaning of the saying of Jesus
in John 17:19--"And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through
the truth." Another scripture, Heb. 5:9 has the same meaning. "And being made perfect, he became
the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." In the use of the terms "sanctify"
and "perfect" we could by no means infer that Jesus was not pure and holy before his suffering
on the cross. He became a perfect Saviour by his death and through suffering. It is absurd
and casts a reflection upon the redemption plan, to say that Jesus was not holy until resurrection.
In this sense only was he made "perfect" by his death. As to his people being holy and sanctified
in this life, we have the whole word of God in favor of such a life. Thank God, it is his will
that we should live "in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life." It
does require a death on our part to obtain this glorious grace. In this respect we must die
to get it. Jesus died to purchase it for us. We must die to receive it--not a literal death,
but a death to sin and the world. The river of Jordan truly signifies a death, but we can cross
over it and remain in this mortal life. The land of Canaan is the land of holiness, which all
of God's people can enter into and possess in this life.

Ques. Does not the Bible say, "If we say that we have no sin we deceive ourselves and the truth
is not in us"?

Ans. Yes, but this does not teach us that we cannot be free from sin. If we were to take this
verse by itself without its context we might have a scripture contradictory to the word of
God, but if we read the seventh and ninth verses with the eighth verse of 1 John 1, we see
plainly by these three verses connected that we can be cleansed from all sin and unrighteousness.
This verse implies that if any one who has not been cleansed from sin should say he has no
sin to be cleansed from, he deceives himself.

Ques. Do we not grow into sanctification and therefore reach it gradually?

Ans. No; this would be contrary to the plan of redemption. We do not grow =into= any of the
graces. We are commanded to grow IN grace. The grace of pardon and justification is imparted
by the Holy Spirit. We can grow in this grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour
which, if we do, will soon bring us to the knowledge of our need of purity and sanctification,
and we will see that this is a grace which is intended for us. We gladly comply with the conditions
for the same, and enter into it by faith. God now performs the work in our hearts by the power
of his Holy Spirit. We cannot do it ourselves, only in the sense that we meet the required
conditions. It is impossible for us to grow into purity. This is beyond our individual power;
it requires the power of God. We purify ourselves by making the separation of everything outwardly;
God then purifies our hearts by an instantaneous work of grace. This grace by no means implies
a maturity in growth. It only brings us into a position where we can the more rapidly grow
up in spiritual things.

Ques. Why do we not get it all when we are justified?

Ans. Because the conditions for the two graces are not the same. The penitent sinner cannot,
in his sinful condition, meet the requirements for sanctification, and God does not mean that
he should. All that the sinner can possibly do is to repent. When he has fully repented, then
he can believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and receive his pardon. This is justification. He is
justified from all his sins through true repentance and faith. Those are the Scriptural conditions
for justification, but the conditions for sanctification are consecration and faith. Repentance
and consecration are vastly different. The first means to give up all sinful things, with a
godly sorrow for all sins committed, and a solemn determination that by the grace of God all
sinning shall forever cease. The second means to yield up to God all our good things, every
sacred treasure of our heart and affections, with our body and every ransomed power, as a living
sacrifice. The first is God's requirement of every sinner. The second is his requirement of
every justified believer. The first is all that the guilty sinner can possibly comprehend.
The second is that which only the justified believer can comprehend. Therefore it is utterly
impossible for us to get sanctified at the time of our justification. The two are distinct
and separate works of grace, obtained upon distinct and separate conditions.

Some people have vainly believed, and some vainly teach, that there is but one work of grace;
but such a doctrine is contrary to the word of God, the conditions of the plan of redemption,
and the glorious testimonies of thousands of saints who have lived in the past and those who
are living witnesses today. It is perfectly natural and logical to every honest and willing
child of God who is not yet sanctified to soon believe that there is a second work of grace.
Perhaps it will take a few months for some to find out their need, but it is only a question
of time till every one will find an inward longing for something more, to satisfy the inward
condition of the heart. To prove this statement let us listen to the testimonies of those who
are simply justified and have had no teaching on sanctification, whether their Christian life
be one of years or but a few months. Everyone who stands in this justified relation with God
gives expression in some respects according to the following: "I thank God for salvation and
am not sorry that I ever gave my heart to God, but I do feel the need of a deeper work of grace."
Another will say, "Pray for me that I may have a clean heart." Another will request prayer
for perfect love; another will confess to having been overcome by sin, and having made some
crooked paths, and feels sorry and wants to get nearer to God and get a better experience.

Now we cannot doubt the sincerity of these hearts, neither their experience. Their experiences
are those of honest, willing children of God who are anxious to do the whole will of God. Such
expressions would not be given by professors who are void of salvation. The fact is, the experiences
of these hearts teach them the need of the second grace, and unless they should be deceived
by some false doctrines, they would keep on with such testimonies until they should obtain
that perfect love, or a clean heart, or a deeper work of grace.

Do they not testify that the first work of grace is not deep enough? They are glad for the
first work, but they want something deeper. They are glad that grace has found their heart,
but they want a clean heart--one that is free from those conscious uprisings of evil which,
if unrestrained, would bring them into condemnation and guilt, and perhaps have already overcome
them and produced such an effect in their lives. They are glad for the sweet love of God that
has found its way into their hearts, but they long for perfect love. They are conscious of
some obstacles which hinder that love from being perfect, and yet they do not understand just
how those obstacles can be removed. Someone may tell them that they have all they can get from
God and to ask for more would be presumption, and yet their souls cry out for that which is
natural in the grace of God, and how ready they are, when they hear sanctification taught,
to meet the conditions and enter into the rest for their souls--this perfect love, this deeper
work of grace, and this experience of a clean heart, and this baptism with the Holy Ghost.

Now let us listen to their testimonies. What do we hear? Ah, we hear them praising God for
this they were so longing for. One will praise God for a clean heart; another will say he has
found the perfect love; another will testify to the baptism of the Holy Ghost. Others will
thank God for sanctification, and others will call it this sweet soul-rest, etc., which all
mean the same blessed experience of sanctification. Now if we ask them if they believe in a
second work of grace, what will they answer us? Ah, there is no question about it. They have
it in their hearts, and they are spoiled for any argument upon the subject.

So it is with all God's people who have met the definite conditions for sanctification and
have come into this precious grace. We know it is a second work.

Ques. How can one keep free from evil thoughts?

Ans. The pure heart and mind do not entertain an evil thought. As soon as such thoughts are
presented they are banished. In 2 Cor. 10:5 we read how such things are dealt with. An evil
thought thus captivated does not enter into the heart and therefore does not become a sin to
us. The apostle James says, "When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin." The evil thought
must first enter into the heart and be conceived into a desire before it becomes sin.

This world is full of sin and iniquity on every hand. We may hear profanity as we pass along
the street, or we may see iniquity before our eyes daily as we come in contact with the world,
we may pick up a secular paper and read of murder and theft, and thus these evil thoughts may
enter into our minds, but they do not conceive or take root in our hearts. They are brought
into captivity and banished from us. If when reading or hearing of a murder or theft, someone
should see an opportunity to commit a similar deed and resolve in his heart that he would do
so at his first opportunity, that person would have conceived the thought in his heart, and
in the sight of God he would be a murderer or a thief, even though he never had the opportunity
to carry out the design. The heart that is purified by the cleansing blood of Christ and momently
kept in the efficacy of that blood, is the sacred dwelling-place of the Holy Spirit, who has
the full and exclusive control of the heart.

As long as our will is kept in line with the will of God the Holy Spirit will abide. The strong
man--the Holy Spirit--is in his own house, and it is impossible for sin to enter in unless
we by our own will consent to it. The word of God speaks of the Holy Spirit as the seal. This
thought is practically illustrated by the common use of a seal in canning fruit. We may be
ever so careful with fruit in getting it properly prepared for the can, but if we set it away
without the seal, it will not be long until the fruit is spoiled. It requires the seal to keep
the fruit from spoiling. There is something in the air which, if not excluded, will spoil the
fruit. The use of the seal is to exclude the air.

So it is with our heart. Justification inducts us into Christ; sanctification purifies our
hearts and seals us in him; now when sin would come in contact with our hearts and defile it,
there is something there, the Holy Spirit, the seal, which keeps sin from entering in. Notice
the word "cleanseth." It is in the present tense. By our walking in the light, which signifies
our perfect obedience continually to all the known will of God, our heart is kept in line with
God's will and hence under the provisions of his grace--the sin-cleansing blood of Jesus. Thus
the perpetual cleansing keeps our heart pure. By the inwrought work of sanctification we =obtain=
this purity, and by our obedience to God, walking in the light, we =retain= it.

In this blessed grace, no evil thought can enter our heart unless by our consent. We have willed
it so that we forsake all sin and turn to God; thus his grace of justification has found its
way into our heart. Then by a definite consecration we willed it so that the cleansing blood
of Jesus should purify our heart from inborn depravity, and his grace of sanctification has
found its way within, and has brought the glorious heavenly guest, the Holy Spirit, there to
abide. Now as we continue to walk in this light we are kept from sin. By our will we either
open or close our heart toward God. The will is the entrance and door. The grace of God is
free, and more abundant than the sunshine that lights and warms this earth. All of this sunshine
may be kept out of the room if we will to have it so. We can darken the windows and doors,
and keep every ray of light out, or we can have abundant sunshine if we will, by simply removing
the obstacles. So it is with the illimitable grace of God. If we open up wide the door of our
heart--our will--and keep it open continually, the grace will flow in and keep out everything
that is not like heaven.

If we close the door of our heart toward God, it will be opening it toward sin, and the result
will be darkness. Depravity will at once have entered in, and then as every evil thought comes
into the mind it will find no obstruction to its way into the heart, where it will find a fruitful
soil in which to germinate and bring forth evil work.

Ques. Does not the word of God say that "from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil
thoughts," etc.?

Ans. Yes, this is true; but we must consider what kind of heart Jesus is speaking about. Let
us turn to Mark 7. The Pharisees and certain scribes found fault because they saw some of Jesus'
disciples eat bread without washing their hands; not that their hands were not clean enough
to eat with, but because they did not serve the traditional ceremony, thinking that thus the
hearts of the disciples were defiled, but Jesus explained that nothing can defile the heart
except that which enters into it. Ver. 19. "And he said, That which cometh out of the man,
that defileth the man.

We see that this is a true picture of the unregenerated heart, which has no good thing in it.
We also see that it is not an evil thought presented to the mind from without which defileth
the man, but it is the evil thought that comes from within a corrupted heart. There are two
sources of evil thoughts. 1. The devil himself directly. 2. A corrupt, unregenerate heart,
which is a hotbed and nursery of the devil. From either of these outward sources evil thoughts
may be presented to the mind of a child of God, but from neither can our hearts be defiled
if they are brought into captivity and banished, as will be the case with every obedient soul.

Ques. Is not every mistake a sin?

Ans. No; there are many mistakes which are not sinful. There is no doubt that every sin is
a serious mistake, but God's people do not make such mistakes. The word of God teaches what
sin is, and if we abide in Christ we will not commit sin. The scriptural definition of sin
will help us to understand this. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not,
to him it is sin."--Jas. 4:17. "All unrighteousness is sin."--1 John 5:17. "When lust hath
conceived it bringeth forth sin."--Jas. 1:15. "Sin is the transgression of the law."--1 John
3:4. "Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not."--1 John 3:6. Any mistake that would be a violation
of God's law would be a sin, but aside from this, a simple error in judgment is not a sin.
Salvation does not warrant an experience beyond the probability of error in our human nature,
and Christian perfection is not infallibility.

Ques. Did not Paul say there was sin dwelling in him?

Ans. Yes. This expression we find in Rom. 7:17. The apostle when writing this chapter was not
describing his sanctified condition. It is a description of his condition when he was in the
flesh, or carnal state. "For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sin, which were by the
law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death."--Ver. 5. And in Rom. 2. Paul's
condition when under the law is described in the 7th chapter of Romans. In chapters 6 and 8
he describes the condition of the child of God under grace.

Ques. But does he not say in Rom. 3:10 that "there is none righteous, no, not one"?

Ans. Yes. But he was not describing the condition of the child of God under grace. He refers
to the world under the law. No Bible Christian can conscientiously apply Rom. 3:10-18 to himself.

Ques. How about Solomon, who said, "There is not a just man upon the earth, that doeth good,
and sinneth not"?

Ans. This also was spoken of the condition of the people under the law. 7:19.

In order to properly apply scripture it is very helpful to always consider: 1. Who wrote it?
2. When was it written? 3. Of whom or to whom was it written? In this manner it is easy to
determine the meaning of such scriptures as here have been mentioned and many others, which
would otherwise render it impossible to harmonize the whole word of God. The two dispensations,
the law and grace, are vastly different in many respects. The first was but the shadow of the
second. In the first there was no power to take away sin, or to change the inward moral condition
of man but in the second there is the power and provision in the redemption of Christ to save
us to the uttermost.

Ques. But did not Paul say of himself when under grace that he kept his body under and brought
it into subjection? Does not this indicate that his body was yet sinful?

Ans. Let us turn to 1 Cor. 9:25-27. We see here that he makes no reference to his body being
sinful, but tells how he practices temperance in all things. Like one who prepares himself
for a race, in training himself physically, bringing his body into subjection in everything,
that he may be able to win the prize. In sanctification the sinful and depraved nature is destroyed,
and everything unholy cleansed out; therefore there are no sinful propensities to be kept down
and under, but all sin is kept out. The sanctified body is not sinful but holy (1 Cor. 3:17)
and is designed for God for the dwelling-place of his Holy Spirit.

Every propensity and appetite is now restored to its condition of purity, in which it was created
before sin entered into the world, but yet we are human. Sanctification does not destroy our
human nature, but simply brings it into easy control, with every propensity in harmony with
the design of its Creator. But we are yet in this world and the creature--our physical nature--is
yet subject to vanity.

Satan with all his malicious and crafty devices is lying in wait to deceive and lead astray.
Even through our appetites would Satan gain the advantage over us, and finally bring us into
bondage, if he were permitted to do so. In this respect the apostle Paul kept his body under
and brought every appetite and propensity into subjection to serve him, rather than he should
serve them, and all his ransomed powers were bent upon his faithful obedience to the one object
of his existence--the ministry of the gospel.

Ques. Can a person lose the experience of sanctification?

Ans. Yes, it is possible to lose it.

This experience does not place us beyond temptation. It only fortifies us more strongly against
the world, the flesh, and the devil, and greatly diminishes the probability of falling.

Ques. Does not the word of God teach that "Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not"; and "Whosoever
is born of God doth not commit sin"?

Ans. Yes; this is certainly true. There is no possibility of sinning in Christ. It is only
when a person gets out of Christ that it is possible to commit sin. The term "born of God"
includes both justified and sanctified. No justified person can commit sin and retain the justified
experience; therefore, no one who is born of God and retains this divine relationship in him
will sin. Everyone who commits sin must do so outside of this life in God. The apostle John
says, "Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him," which signifies that in the
act of committing sin a person gets entirely outside of Christ. In such an act he has not seen,
nor known him. The apostle also says concerning those who are born of God, that they "cannot
sin," because they are "born of God." This statement agrees with the one just quoted, and proves
that it is not possible to commit sin in Christ; but it does not infer that it is not possible
to get out of Christ and commit sin. The expression "cannot sin" simply signifies that there
is no disposition in the heart to commit sin. We are constrained by love to him who gave his
life for us, to do nothing to displease him. We have the privilege and power to displease him
if we will, but we have no will to do so. We "cannot" do it and abide loyal to him. A mother
may be requested to take a weapon and slay her child, but she at once answers, I cannot! Yea,
she can if she will; but the answer would in every case be repeated "I cannot!" It is not difficult
to see why she cannot do such a deed. She has no disposition to do so, even though she has
the power to do it. Her love for her child renders it impossible so long as that love continues.

Ques. Can a person be restored to this experience of sanctification if it should be lost?

Ans. Yes, by complying with the conditions; but the same act of sin which would cause us to
lose our experience of sanctification would also forfeit our justification, and bring us into
condemnation. Therefore the conditions necessary to get back into Christ would be first, repentance
and faith; then by a definite consecration, or a renewal of our consecration which has been
broken, and a definite faith in the all-cleansing blood of Christ we will be restored to sanctification.

Ques. In case a person shall unfortunately sustain such a loss, how long would it take to become
restored?

Ans. Just as long as it would take to meet the conditions. No one in such a case should wait
an hour, but knowing just what conditions are required, they should be complied with at once.

Ques. How can we understand the seventh chapter of Romans to harmonize with the doctrine of
holiness?

Ans. From the seventh verse of this chapter the apostle describes his experience when under
the law, before he had been brought into the grace of God. From the seventh to the fourteenth
verse he speaks of his experience, making use of the past tense. From the fourteenth verse
through the rest of the chapter he makes use of the present tense, but still continues the
description of his past experience.

It is held by holiness opposers that this chapter is a description of the apostle's experience
under grace, and that this is the highest possible experience attainable in this gospel dispensation.
But such an experience is not consistent with grace at all. If this were all that grace can
do, there would be no encouragement in it for any one to accept. No sinner could do worse than
the experience described here, except that he might deliberately choose to sin and do everything
wrong. This chapter describes the sinner as having a desire in his mind to do right but no
power within him to carry out his desires, in any respect. He is awakened to the requirements
of the law of God, but finds he is held fast by another law which holds him with such power
as to render him helpless, utterly helpless, to do anything good. This does not apply to the
justified experience under grace. 7:9. He died in trespasses and sin. This was the condition
of all men under the law, and this is where grace found the world.

Ques. Is every child at birth sinful by nature?

Ans. The race of mankind has descended from Adam through Seth, who was born not in the image
of God as Adam and Eve were created, but in the image and after the likeness of Adam as he
was after the fall. It is evident that our first parents lost the image of God through their
disobedience, and it is also evident that this image of God has never been regained through
the first Adam. The word of God plainly teaches that Christ, the second Adam, is the image
of God, and by the power of his redemption grace, he will restore this image to every son and
daughter of Adam's race who will meet the conditions for the same. The first Adam is depraved
and a sad failure. He has no power within himself to change his moral condition. The second
Adam (Christ) is a glorious success. He possesses all the moral characteristics of purity and
holiness that the first Adam did before the fall, and also has the power to impart this image
of God to all who come to him.

The image of Adam is entailed upon the race through the fall, and evidently, though mysteriously,
affects mankind through the natural law of generation. The image of God is provided for the
race through redemption in Christ, and is imparted to each individual through the divine law
of regeneration and its accompanying grace. It is compatible with the word of God, with reason,
and with observation, that every child born into this world through the natural law of generation,
very early in life in a greater or lesser degree manifests some of the characteristics of this
image of Adam. Just how, when, and where the child partakes of this nature would be a subject
of conjecture and speculation. The psalmist says he was conceived in sin and shapen in iniquity
(See Psa. 51:5.) and according to the condition of the unregenerate world this is as true today
as it was in the days of David. The innocent child, of course, is not accountable for this
inward condition of its nature, but as it grows to the age of accountability it becomes an
easy prey to the powers of sin because of this condition. While innocent, it is unquestionably
acceptable in the sight of God and comes under the provisions of the redemption of Christ unconditionally:
for "sin is not imputed where there is no law."--Rom. 5:13. 7:9. He no doubt had reference
to the innocent period of his life. The principle of sin was in his nature, but "without the
law sin was dead"; it had no power to bring him into condemnation. As soon, however, as he
became able to know what the law required of him, sin revived and made him a transgressor by
causing him to disobey the commands of God. There is no room to question the fact that sin
was in his nature; for he plainly states it so, and the expression, "sin revived" indicates
that it had been in him during the period of his innocent state.

CHAPTER XIII

Personal Experience

In conclusion I desire to add my humble testimony of a personal experience of the glorious
work of entire sanctification.

At the age of seventeen years I was converted. All who were acquainted with me had no reason
to doubt the genuine, inwrought grace of pardon and the new life which at once began to bring
forth fruit unto God. But the one to whom this mighty change seemed the most marvelous was
myself. My poor soul, which for several years had been held under the terrible bondage and
darkness of sin, was now turned from darkness unto light and from the power of Satan unto God,
and there was no room either internally or externally to question that I had received forgiveness
of sins. The glory and blessedness of that sacred hour and that hallowed spot "when love divine
first found me" can never be erased from my memory. I will not say, as I have often heard others
testify of their own, that my experience was more wonderful than that of anyone else, but I
do not see how it could have been any more wonderful to me than it was, and it is but useless
to make an effort to tell it. All who have come into this precious life, and have the Spirit
bearing witness with our spirit that we are the children of God, understand what it means to
be justified by faith and have this sweet peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.

But this peace with God meant war with the enemy of my soul, and I soon learned that the battle
was a serious one. The artful schemes of the enemy were deeply planned for my overthrow, and
while attending school the spirit of the world succeeded in leading me into defeat, and I decided
to yield myself again unto the world, and gave up the struggle against sin. But oh, what darkness!
God only knows what horrors I suffered. I had been saved but a few months and had had the taste
of true happiness which so spoiled me for the empty pleasures of sin that I was often so wretched
and miserable that life was a burden. But thank God, this condition of life was only of about
two month's duration. Through the burning tears of my precious mother, which fairly bathed
my face and neck one day as she suddenly came into my room and clasped her arms around me,
I was enabled again to decide for God and heaven. This decision was so thoroughly burned in
upon my soul by those scalding tears that, by the grace of God, I believe it will last from
that day to my latest breath. The sweet joy and peace of heaven was restored and I believe
I enjoyed salvation as much as anyone could in my circumstances. I knew I was a child of God,
but it was not long until I became fully conscious that there was a deeper work of grace needed
within me. My parents both professed entire sanctification at the time of the conversion of
the four oldest children, which included myself, but my life was much occupied in securing
an education, and having but limited opportunities I was absorbed mostly with my studies, then
afterward became engaged in educational work for a number of years. It needed no arguments
to prove that my parents possessed a deeper spiritual life than I did, and although the doctrine
of sanctification was not so clearly taught and understood then as now, yet I was fully aware
this was what I needed. Sometimes I thought I had obtained the experience, but soon it was
proved by unmistakable evidence that I was not sanctified. I had not come to the point of a
definite and absolute consecration, and really did not understand how to make this consecration.
My great ambition in life was to make a mark in the world. This was so deeply implanted within
me that I caused every energy to bend in that direction. I dearly loved God and fully realized
my utter dependence upon him, but my love was not perfected. Then unfortunately I had a quick
temper, which I found justification had not destroyed. It was materially repressed and generally
held under control, but it was there and needed only the provocation to assert its presence;
and sometimes, I am sorry to say, it brought me under condemnation and I had cause to repent
and regain the sweet peace of God.

But the manner of my life, I believe, as a whole, was such that none of my most intimate acquaintances
had any reason to question the sincerity of my heart or my profession as a Christian. The one
who was most dissatisfied with my inward condition was myself, and for more than eight years
I knew that a deeper work must be wrought before I could be satisfied. Oh, how truly I could
understand the prayer of David when he so longed for a clean heart; and had I been brought
to the knowledge of the complete consecration, I might have been living in this blessed Canaan
rest of soul soon after my conversion. But God was good and full of tender mercy. He carried
me along and forgave my defeats and so lovingly bore with me, even though my heart was divided
between him and some things of this world. I had forsaken all that I had to follow Jesus, but
unconsciously these objects would come between Jesus, the object of my love, and myself, and
thus hinder the perfect communion of the Holy Spirit. About one year prior to my entering into
this perfect rest, the doctrine of sanctification was quite thoroughly agitated. Some advocates
of the Zinzendorf doctrine produced some strong efforts to overthrow the doctrine of the second
work of grace. I had studied the scriptures carefully and honestly, and while I did not have
the experience of the second grace myself, I was certain that the one-work teaching was not
correct; for I knew I had received all that my heart could receive in the grace of pardon,
and knew also that I soon found that I needed just exactly what the term sanctification implies,
and what the dear ones who believed in and were advocating the second work of grace were testifying
to by word and deed.

In the winter of 1883-4, while dear companion and myself were engaged with some sanctified
ones in a protracted meeting, to rescue the perishing, we were brought as never before face
to face with the stern necessity of more spiritual power and life. We were shown by the Holy
Spirit that there is but one route to the promised land and that is by crossing the Jordan.
Death was inevitable if we would come into this abundant life. We paused and reflected, looked
backward and forward, but there was no alternative--death was our doom. One day while I was
absent from home, and dear companion was left alone, the Lord spoke to her so plainly that
she had one cherished idol that must necessarily be sacrificed. It was a God-given blessing,
but must be yielded freely to him. She obeyed and entered into the glory of sanctification.
When I returned home I soon found that the work in her was done. Something marvelous had been
accomplished. It was wonderful what a change. She told me of the death she had to pass through
and I fully realized it. The divine glory which had come into her heart was unspeakable. She
tried to show me how to die the same death. I was desirous to yield and cross over with her,
but I found a resistance in my will which held me back. I came to my cherished treasures, some
of which were God-given blessings, but unquestionably the Holy Spirit said they must be yielded
up a burnt offering unto the Lord. My will must become swallowed up into the will of God completely,
even to this death. I said, "Yes, Lord, I will"; but the yes found a hesitancy. It did not
reach the depths of my heart. I kept saying it over and over--"Yes, Lord"--and tried to get
it deeper every time I said it; but the Lord knew it did not reach the inmost depths. That
was a wonderful day to me, but it was not the day of my death, as it was of my companion. She
told in meeting that evening what the Lord had wrought. I told what I was trying to say to
the Lord--"Thy will be done."

Time passed by and I still hesitated. I wanted the Lord's perfect will, but also wanted just
a little of my will. I wanted both, but the Lord showed that I could have but one; and I plainly
knew which one, if I was ever to obtain the grace of sanctification. The life of my companion
was a daily testimony which only added to my trouble. I knew she had what she never had before.
Her life before was all that I ever expected to find in a true, devoted, Christian woman, but
now in some marvelous manner there was vastly more heaven in her life than before, and the
marked absence of everything unlike heaven. I knew she was sanctified, and I knew I was not.
She had just what I must have, and what my soul was longing for these years. Oh, why could
I not just now say "Yes!" with my whole heart and die the death and gain the abundant life?
Sometimes I was under such conviction that I felt miserable. I asked God to forgive me for
not yielding up my whole heart as I knew he would have me do.

       *       *       *       *       *

Weeks and months passed and my attention became absorbed in business and the cares of life,
but these months were more unsatisfactory than all my previous Christian life, and some of
this time I certainly lived on a very low plane of spirituality, and it is evident that I at
last came to the point where my justification would have been forfeited had I not gone over
and possessed the land. I struggled and suffered sometimes unutterably. After the struggle
was over and I was sanctified I could look back and see where I had come up to a deep chasm
so deep and dark that I could not see the bottom. It was too wide for me to step across. On
the other side was everything my soul longed for. I could see the beautiful plane and way of
sanctification. My loved ones were walking on it and rejoicing in its glory. Above the chasm
there seemed suspended a rope securely fastened and strong enough to hold my weight, and it
seemed that I could easily take hold of this rope and by a desperate effort swing myself across
the chasm. I had taken hold of the rope and was for a long time hesitating about making the
leap. The chasm was the depth I must drop into in order to reach sanctification, but it seemed
awful--so deep and dark, and no assurance that I would ever see life again. The rope was my
will. I had presumed to swing across without going into the death, but God knew that would
not be his way, and there I stood, gazing with fear and trembling into the immensity of this
dark chasm into which to leap meant certain death. Later I had taken hold of the rope and swung
myself away from where I had been standing, with the hope of reaching the other side. I could
not reach it and now was worse off than before, for I was now suspended above the chasm and
could neither go back nor go forward. There I was hanging and swinging, holding on for life,
and yet the Holy Spirit kept saying, "Let go."

My sufferings increased until I began to feel that death would be a relief. At that time God
sent a brother to us who preached a sermon from the text, 1 Peter 4:1, 2, with emphasis upon
the clause, "For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin." The Holy Spirit
applied this to me and revealed to my soul the utter necessity of death to gain sanctification.
The end came, I let go my death grip of the rope and said as I never said before, "Yes, Lord,
thy will be done!" I knew that it reached the uttermost depth of my soul. God knew it, and
I am certain that Satan knew it. At the close of that meeting I said, "I am now offered up."
There was no conscious change only I knew my will was yielded, and I am certain that not an
atom of earth existed between God and me. We went home late in the evening, and as I was retiring
I knelt once more before God and simply told him that now after these months of struggle it
was all ended and I was so thankful to him that I could say so sweetly, "Thy will be done."
My hold upon the rope had become so weary. How sweet and blessed now to rest so securely in
that infinite will. The great chasm was deep and dark, but I was so glad that I had let go
and dropped into it; for I was so conscious now that even in the darkness and depths I was
in his will. As I dropped, loving arms of Jesus had caught me and I was glad to be in death
with him. I felt within me that something wonderful was about to take place. I arose from my
knees and scarcely had time to lie down when truly I experienced a taste of death. Wholly unconscious
of my earthly surroundings, but knowing I was in the presence of Jesus, I believe a death was
wrought within me, after which the baptism of pentecostal fire and the Holy Ghost came upon
me. The refining fire went through my very body and the effect seemed terrible. The sublime
consciousness of the presence of heaven and the majesty of God was such as mortal tongue can
never describe. Then following the distinct baptism of fire the floodgates of heaven's glory
were opened upon me, and, oh, the heavenly deluge that followed can be realized only by those
who have experienced the same.

More than sixteen years have passed since this wonderful event, and while the emotions of feeling
have been varied through the labors and toils of a busy life (both in business life, and twelve
years in the gospel ministry), I can testify to the glory of God that the power and victory
in this blessed second grace has been all-sufficient. The word of God, now I found, was full
of sanctification, and my new experience spoiled me for any arguments against the doctrine
as a second work of grace, and in due time I could plainly see that according to the word of
God and the plan of redemption it must be an experience subsequent to justification. The conscious
presence of the indwelling Holy Spirit and the knowledge of a pure heart in this precious grace
is what we need continually in this battle against the powers of the enemy.

Brother and sister, have you had your Pentecost? If not, tarry at Jerusalem. Faithful is he
that calleth you, who also will do it."--1 Thess. 5:23, 24.

Page 8: "It is indispensible" changed to "It is indispensable".

Page 17: "the words "having" signifying" changed to "the word "having" signifying".

Page 36: "than should no place" changed to "then should no place".

Page 45: "so deeply inbedded" changed to "so deeply embedded".

Page 62: "of ecclestiastical bondage" changed to "of ecclesiastical bondage".

Page 62: "will in every individaul" changed to "will in every individual".

Page 63: "throughly furnished unto all" changed to "thoroughly furnished unto all".

Pages 77-78: "made "perfect his death" changed to "made "perfect" by his death".

Page 85: "sanctificed condition" changed to "sanctified condition".

Page 90: "Chapter XIV" changed to "Chapter XIII".

Page 95: "no consicous change only" changed to "no conscious change only".

