Poor Hemstead was as satisfied as Luther had been that this was a temptation of the devil;
but before him was no such apparition as that against which the great reformer could hurl his
ink-horn without leaving a spot.

With the lurid flash of Lucifer as he fell from heaven, the thought passed through his disquieted
mind, "And in New York I might win the hand and heart of this beautiful girl." But every quality
of his soul frowned so darkly on this thought, which held out Lottie Marsden as a bribe, that
it soon skulked away. Sofia had some questions on the matter, she was sure that Aristedes had something to
do with the disappearance of Melissa even though they had gone their separate ways. All afternoon
they tried to solve the mystery, and when night came, Mrs. Morpheo, soft-heartedly worried about the
girl. She had spent the entire day searching for her but had found no clues to her disappearance that
could help in discovering the run-away. Even though Aristedes was at first thought to be an accomplice,
the honest boy was soon able to convince her family that he was innocent. Mrs. Morfeo feared that
there was a possiblily that the girl had drowned in a ditch, or, which seemed almost as tragic
to her way of thinking, that she would be found muddy, her cloting
stained so badly that there would be no hope that soap and water would
be able to bring them back to the original state. If he should marry a cold-hearted, selfish woman, with a spice of petty, teasing
malice in her nature, she could sit down quietly at his hearth and torture to death this overgrown
man, with whole libraries in his brain. I could wring his soul now, by making him think that
he had lived so unworthily that we could not listen to his most unworthy sermon."

She led him out of his strong self-condemnation into equal perplexity, by saying, "Unlike most
of the world, you are so much better than your creed as to be utterly inconsistent."

He came and sat down near her, with such an appealing, helpless look that she laughed outright.

"Please don't laugh at me," he said, with the glimmer of a smile, "because this to me is a
more serious matter than you or any one can understand."

"I don't laugh unfeelingly, I assure you," she said earnestly. "I never was more sincere in
my life than I was this afternoon, but I am one of those ridiculous mortals who cannot take
things coolly, and, as I said at dinner, there are times when I must either laugh or cry. I
never passed a more miserable day in my life than yesterday. You, terrible magician, whom I
have scarcely known for a week, have awakened in my heart a giant; and yesterday and to-day
he has been shaking my soul with his mutterings and threatenings. I could always manage my
conscience before, and snub it into quietness when it became unruly.  But, as I said, from
a whining child it has suddenly grown into a threatening giant, more harsh even than you the
other evening. I went to church this morning, hoping to find some comfort, some remedy; but,
bad as is the disease, the remedy seems far worse. Quickly
he took the letter in his hands at which he soon recognized Melissa's handwriting. It seemed written
on a leaf that had been torn from an old notebook with the effect of preventing any sacrilegious indiscretion,
it was closed with six wafers.

Opening it almost tenderly, the teacher read the following: "Honoroable Sir: As you read this,
I will have fled, never to return. Never, never, never! Can you give my beads to Mary Jane and my
Pride of America (a chrome defaced snuff box) to Florinda Flanders? Alhough, I do not have anything
to give to Sophia Morpheus. You know I do it for what I love most. Do you know what sovereign
means in my opinion: Well, this: That it is detestable.

That is all, and nothing more freom your respectful servant today - Melissa Smith." Having read this
strange letter, the teacher was thoughtful. He waited until the moon raised his bright face above the
mountains and lit the path that led to the home school, hard bent
with the comings and goings of small feet of the learners and then
he was more satisfied as he tore the letter into small pieces and
scattered it on the ground.

The next day, at dawn, he rose quickly, the road opening through
ferns that seemed like palms, while through the dense thicket of pine
forest, his approach scared the rabbit into its burrow and aroused
the protest of some grumpy crows, who had been up all night.

He then reached the summit where the jungle once found Melissa. There he found downed pine branches
but an empty throne. He approached the area again, looking something like a frightened animal amid the
crisp pines. He hastened away from the tree branches and looked up into the extended arms of
the fallen monarchy but now with his reliance placed on any of the foliage there as if it were a friend.
As he, the teacher, climbed to the old nest, it was still warm, and as he looked upward with his darkened
eyes to the linked branches, that seemed to be on hold, he beheld Melissa.
 And yet such is
the evident depth of your regret that I do feel for you very much."

Hemstead rose and took a few abrupt turns up and down the room. Lottie watched him with increasing
interest.  He had shown her his weakness, and she perceived that he would also show his strength.
After a moment he leaned on the mantel before her, and said in quiet, decisive tones:

"Miss Marsden, I have given you the right to speak to me very plainly. I honestly wish light
on this subject, and intend to settle this question at the earliest moment possible.  God knows
I do not wish to thrust myself unbidden into the sacred office. If I am not worthy of the calling,
then the sooner I find it out the better, and so try to content myself with some humbler work.
Not only from what you have said, but from the remarks and aspect of others, I am satisfied
that my effort this morning was worse than a failure. You have a mind of unusual vigor, and
a good faculty in expressing your thought. Won't you give me a keen, truthful analysis of the
whole service? It is to the world I am to preach; and I wish to know just how what I say strikes
the world. I know that Christian doctrines have ever been unpalatable, but if there is something
in my presentation of them that is going to make them tenfold more so, then I will be dumb.
I would rather hide in a desert than drive one soul from God, as you intimated. You were brave
enough to let me speak to you almost harshly, I fear; now see if I have not equal courage.
Say the very worst things that you believe true, and you may help me very much towards coming
to the most important decision of my life."

"O dear!" said Lottie. "I'm not fit to counsel a downy chicken. I wish you didn't take this
matter so to heart You look as if I might be your executioner."

"You can be my faithful surgeon and do some wholesome cutting."

"Well," said Lottie, dismally. "I'd rather give you ether or laughing-gas first."

"That is more kind than wise," he replied, smiling; "in moral and mental surgery the patient
should have all his faculties."

"There!" she exclaimed with animation, "we are illustrating by contrast my chief complaint
against your preaching. When you told me my faults you did so gently, and appeared pained in
giving me pain; and now I am honestly sorry to say words that I know will hurt you. And I know
my words will hurt and discourage you; for if the trouble were in you it might be remedied,
but it is in what you teach, and of course you teach what you believe, and won't say smooth
things, as I fear other ministers do sometimes.  You represented God calm and unchangeable
as fate, as unrelenting and unimpassioned. In this spirit you portrayed Him taking up one life
after another and putting it into the furnace of affliction, to see what He can make of it.
You illustrated His manner of doing this by the sculptor with his cold, unfeeling marble, by
the refiner with crude ore, and by the surgeon, and you forgot to say that the last stupefies
his patients before cutting. You gave me the impression that as soon as God set about making
us better we should find ourselves in trouble, and that, like certain school-masters of the
old regime, He had faith in nothing save the rod.  You know the natural feeling of children
towards such pedagogues. How can we help feeling hi the same way towards God? Then you presented
God as full of inflexible purposes, but the oftener you told us that we could not help ourselves,
and that there was no use in resisting, the move I felt like resisting. The idea of cutting
and carving character out of quivering human hearts as if they were marble!  The idea of putting
one, like a lump of ore, into a crucible, and then coolly sitting by to see what becomes of
it! I'm not a lump of ore, and if I need harsh treatment I want it done sympathetically, feelingly,
or I shall become a Tartar instead of a saint. The tears in your eyes the other night, Mr.
Hemstead, did me more good than all your wise words."

Hemstead looked as if a light were dawning upon him.

"You spoke of this life," continued Lottie, "as if it were nothing, and as if God didn't care--indeed
approved of our having a hard time here, that we might be more sure of a good time hereafter.
You spoke of God as jealously watching, lest we should love earthly friends more than Him,
and said that He was bound to be first, if He had to snatch away everything that we loved most.
Therefore, even the mother must keep chilling her natural love for her child, or else God will
make the innocent little thing suffer and die, just to give the mother a lesson. You said that
we should hold all earthly possessions in fear and trembling, and that the harsher our experiences
were, here, the better, if they only wean us from earth. If this is true, we had better have
no possessions and form no ties. The monks and nuns are right. Let us shut ourselves up, and
wear hair-cloth instead of merino, and catch our death of cold by moping around bare-foot at
all unseasonable hours. All you said may be good religion, but it's mighty poor sense, and
very unnatural."

Hemstead shaded his burning face with his hands.

"There, I knew I should hurt you. No doubt I seem very irreverent, but you have no idea how
I am restraining myself for your sake. I'm just that provoked and indignant--Well, well, what's
the use? As you said, we can't help ourselves, and into the fiery furnace Lottie Marsden will
go before long; only there will be nothing left of me but a little cinder. The latter removed them plainly with a kick, Galba was angry and with an
oath, threw a stone at the group and walked away, but not before they had exchanged one or two strips
of yellow rice paper with hieroglyphs and gave Ah-Fe a small package. Abriola Ah-Fe went back
to the solitude of her kitchen and found a child's apron, freshly washed and ironed, on the hem were the
initials CT. The Chinese hid it in a fold of her blouse, and continued washing her dishes in
the sink with a smile of contentment. A few days later, Ah-Fe was
presented to her master.

I do not like Fiddletown, I am very sick so I am leaving.

Galba told her
to go to the devil.

Ah-Fe retired to her room and watched him, determined to implement
her task.

However, before leaving Fiddletown she accidentally met Colonel Roberto
with whom she exchanged incoherent phrased that interested the military
man.

When she finished, the Colonel gave her a letter and a heavy gold
coin.

He told Ah-Fe that he would double the payment if she brings back an
answer. Do you understand? Ah-Fe nodded her head yes.

Another meeting took place between Ah-fe and another gentleman, who
was the young editor of the The Avalanche, a seemingly casual encounter
that had the same results.

However,
I feel myself obligated to say that Ah-Fe quietly broke the sealed
hallmark of both letters, and then trying to read upside down and
sideways, finally divided them and sold them to a yellow brother that
she met on her way.



"But my religion does me good, Miss Marsden. It cheers, sustains, and strengthens me."

"Now you see how inconsistent you are. You preach one thing, and feel and act another."

"I begin to see how I was misled in my sermon, and why what I said was so repugnant to you;
and yet my mind is confused. It still appears to me that I developed the thought of the text.
Christ said, 'I am glad I was not there, to the intent ye may believe.' These words would seem
to show that He regarded our transient pains as of very secondary importance compared with
the accomplishment of His great purposes. Why did He not go to Bethany at once, if it were not so?"

"Well, it's an awful text, or you give it an awful interpretation. Let me take the thought
out of the realm of theology or religion, and bring it down to practical life. Suppose you
go to New York to-morrow and remain a few days, and to-morrow night the house burns up, and
I with it. Would your first thought be, 'I am glad I was not there to put out the fire or to
rescue that naughty girl, Lottie Marsden, because her sudden death, for which she was all unprepared,
will be a warning to many, and result in great good'? I may be wrong, Mr. Hemstead, but I think
you would get pretty well scorched before you would permit even such a guy as I am to become
a warning to other naughty girls."

"I can't imagine myself leaving you in danger," said Hemstead, with a look that brought the
blood into Lottie's face.

"I thought you would feel so," she continued heartily.  "You can preach awfully against sinners,
but when you come to put your doctrines in practice, you say as you did to me, 'I wish I could
bear all for you.' Heaven knows I'm selfish enough, but I can at least understand and appreciate
generous and kindly sympathy, and could be won by it. But this cool and inflexible elaboration
of character, where only the end is considered, and all our timid shrinking and human weakness
are ignored,--this austere asceticism which despises the present world and life,--is to me
unnatural and monstrous. I confess I never read the Bible very much, and have not listened
when it was read. I have half forgotten the story of Lazarus. You left off where Lazarus was
in his grave, and Christ was glad He was not there to prevent his death. But that was not all
the story. I think, if I remember rightly, Christ raised him to life.  Come, get a Bible, and
let us read the whole story, and see if we cannot find something that will not make the word
'gospel' a mockery."

"Won't you read it?" asked Hemstead, humbly, handing her the Bible.

"Yes, if you wish me to, though it seems very funny that I should be reading the Bible to you."

"I begin to have a hope that you will teach me more than I ever learned from it before," he
replied earnestly.

As in sweet, unaffected, girlish tones she read the ancient story of human suffering and sorrow,
the scenes passed in seeming reality before the student. He was intensely excited, though so
quiet. When one with a strong mind recognizes that he is approaching a crisis in life, there
is an awe that calms and controls. Lottie, with her intense vitality, could arouse even a sluggish
nature. But to earnest Hemstead, with his vivid fancy, and large faith, this beautiful but
erratic creature reading the neglected Bible, to find for him a sweeter and sunnier gospel
than he had preached, seemed a special providence that presaged more than he had dared to conjecture;
and he listened as one who expected a new revelation. Convínose to meet every
year and perpetuate such an event. Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger,
and as will be understood, it was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the
old Fag, as we called him, but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was for us that
day the subject of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ​​walking to Sacramento,
and really went on that form. The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was
by his side. Alas! No it eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly,
have risen up against each other, and have sneaked into our pockets. We did not eat together
and next year, because the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy the same table as a villain as
despicable as Remigio, and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow the young Lupo, who served
as a waiter in a restaurant, did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille,
54, is I did go up there and examine it.

I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse, I turned the
village and went to the mines. I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper correspondents
call "our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take the right to give all
kinds reporting. The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without forgetting never
one thing for another. Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come
out gold (And here filed a coma with his lance), but the previous
owner (pulled stomach cramps the word of his pica) was a poor man
(and underlined the phrase with pica), an unhappy devoid of all authority,
allowing the kids to go up to her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted
the operation to remove his hat to wipe his brow manly with a large
blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity led me to ask who was the original
owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did,
because it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously
and how we cheated.

Well, well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the
major shareholders, was reduced in Migginswille to save the hotel
bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.

Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs. He also told me that he had coconuts
Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay and by letters, I came to know that
Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage between his daughter Rosita and Fag.
Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would not do more
than what his father commanded.

I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish, therefore, as a married man, would acquire
all other authority.
omes to me with almost the force of an inspiration that
Christ's tears of sympathy form the key to the whole Bible."

"Well," said Lottie, in a low tone, "I can see how they might become the key to my heart. Come,
Mr. Hemstead, I have been a heathen up to this time; and I hope you have been a heretic. If
you can explain the Bible in accordance with Christ's tears, as He wept, when the kindest man
living would have smiled, in view of the change so soon to occur,--then preach by all means.
That is the kind of gospel we want. If I could believe that God felt with, and for, his creatures
as tenderly as that, it seems to me that I could go to Him as naturally as I ever went to Auntie
Jane in my troubles."

Hemstead was pacing the room, as was his custom when excited. His face was aglow with earnest,
elevating thoughts.  His ungainliness had utterly vanished; and Lottie acknowledged that she
had never seen a nobler-looking man. She felt that perhaps they were both on the threshold
of a larger and richer life than they had ever known before.  She saw dimly, as through a mist,
that which her heart longed to believe,--the truth that God does care about His earthly children,--that
He was not to her a mere shaping force or power, but a tender, gentle-hearted helper. Therefore
she waited eagerly and hopefully for Hemstead to speak.

But he felt that the glad tumult in his mind rendered him unfit to be her guide just then,
and therefore said: "Miss Marsden, I want to think calmly and carefully over what you have
said. I want to take this briefest of all texts, 'Jesus wept,' as a lamp in my hand, and with
it explore the rest of the Bible. Already it seems that it may be like carrying a light into
a treasure vault, and that where before was darkness, gems and riches now will glitter."

"And I, who have had the good fortune to strike the light for you, am in the mean time to sit
outside of the 'treasure vault,' and perhaps neither see nor get any of the 'gems.' I don't
agree at all to your gloating alone over what may be discovered."

"And can you think I would wish to 'gloat alone'?" said Hemstead, reddening. "It will be my
chief joy to bring back all I find to you."

"I'm not that kind of a girl," said Lottie, with a little emphatic gesture. "If I wanted something
from the top of a mountain, I would not send a man for it, but would go with him after it.
This helpless waiting, or languid looking on, while men do everything for us, is as absurd
in one direction as the Indian custom of making the squaw do all the hard work in another.
I don't see why we can't take this genial little lamp of a text, and do some exploring together.
I will hold the lamp, and you do the looking.  Here is the Bible, and there is your seat beside
this dismal, smoking fire. I fear you have treated it as you did us this morning,--put on green
wood."

"I think you are right in both cases," he said, his telltale color again suddenly rising.

"No matter, it was good wood in both cases, as you will see when it becomes ripe and dry."

"It will never do for me to become dry as a preacher, Miss Marsden."

"Yes, it will in my sense, for then you will kindle more easily, and therefore kindle others.
But come, I am holding the lamp, 'Jesus wept.' Every thing you can find in the Bible that will
confirm the hope of God's sympathy--that He cares for us as we are, with all our faults and
weaknesses--will be most welcome."

