"I was too little to know much about de war but, little as I was, dere's one thing dat's still
as fresh in my memory now as den, and dat's how people watched and waited to hear dat old Georgia
train come in. Not many folks was able to take de papers den, and de news in 'em was from one
to two weeks old when dey got here. All de men dat was able to fight was off at de front and
de folks at home was anxious for news. De way dat old train brought 'em de news was lak dis:
if de southern troops was in de front, den dat old whistle jus' blowed continuously, but if
it was bad news, den it was jus' one short, sharp blast. In dat way, from de time it got in
hearin', evvybody could tell by de whistle if de news was good or bad and, believe me, evvybody
sho' did listen to dat train.

"Times was hard durin' de war but from what I've heared de folks dat was old folks den say,
dey warn't near as bad here as in lots of other places. Yes Mam! Sho' I kin 'member dem Yankees
comin' here, but dat was atter de war was done over. Dey camped right here on Hancock Avenue.
Whar dey camped was mostly woods den, and deir camp reached nearly all de way to whar Milledge
Avenue is now. Us chillun was scared to death of dem soldiers and stayed out of deir way all
us could. My Marster, Mr. Stevens Thomas, hid all of his family's silver and other valuables
dat could be put out of sight, for dem Yankees jus' went 'round takin' whatever dey wanted.
Dey stole all kinds of food out of de homes, went into de smokehouses and got hams, and cotched
up de chickens. Dey jus' reached out and tuk what dey wanted and laughed about it lak dey hadn't
been stealin'.

"Dem Yankees brought de smallpox here wid 'em and give it to all de Athens folks, and dat was
somepin awful. Folks jus' died out wid it so bad. Dey built a hospital what dey called de 'pest
house' out whar de stockade is now. It was rough and small but I reckon it helped some. It
warn't near large enough for all de folks dat was sick wid smallpox at one time, and so dey
finally got to whar dey used it jus' for de colored folks, 'cause it seemed dat smallpox went
harder wid dem dan wid de white folks.

"When de war ended us didn't leave Mr. Stevens Thomas. Ma kept on cookin' and wukin' 'round
de house, and Pa wuked lots for other folks, larned to do brick-work, build walls, and things
lak dat. Atter he got to be a brickmason he allus had plenty to do.

"Marbles was de favorite game of de chillun dem days but us never got to play much lak chillun
does dese days, 'cause times was so hard right atter de war dat as soon as chillun got big
enough dey had to go to wuk. Some of our very best times was at de old swimmin' hole. Us dammed
up dat little crick right back of whar de Seaboard Depot is now and it made a fine pool to
swim in. It was cool for it was shady off down dar in de woods, and us spent many a hour dar
on days as hot as dis one is. When dey missed us at home, dat was de fust place dey thought
of when dey come to hunt us. I had some mighty good times in dat crick and I couldn't begin
to count de duckin's I got dar and de whuppin's my Ma and Pa give me for stayin' so long.

"De biggest time in all de year was de Commencement Day; evvybody got busy and fixed up for
dat. My Marster allus had lots of company at commencement times, and us had de most good things
to eat. Out in town dey was 'pared for it too. Tables was all along de sidewalks whar you could
buy any kind of 'freshments you wanted. Course dere warn't as many kinds of 'freshments den
as dey has now, but dere was allus plenty of de strong sort. One time durin' commencement week,
Ma give me a whole quarter to spend. I was de happiest and de richest boy in dis town; jus'
had more money to spend dan anybody, and I walked de streets from one table to another tryin'
to see whar I was gwine to spend all dat money." Here, Ike laughed heartily. "Miss," he said,
"you jus' never could guess what I spent all dat money for. I bought a whole quarter's worth
of ginger-cakes and lit out for de swimmin' hole. Us chillun had a fine time down at de swimmin'
hole dat day. De Cobbs and Lumpkins owned all dat land in dar 'round our swimmin' hole den.
Dey owned from de Catholic Church straight through to College Avenue.

"I mighty well 'member de fust wuk I ever done. I was still jus' a little fellow when Miss
Belle Brumby told Ma she wanted me for a butler boy and dat she would pay me $2.50 a month.
I jus' jumped up and down and begged her to let me wuk for Miss Belle. Why, I jus' knowed I
would git rich right away, 'cause $2.50 was a mighty lot of money." Ike laughed as he said:
"How many boys would wuk for dat pay for a week now, let alone a whole month? Ma did let me
wuk for Miss Belle and I was happy, but I know my Mist'ess had a time wid me 'cause, when I
got on dat white coat dey let me wear to wait on de table, I knowed more dan evvybody else
put together and dere couldn't nobody tell me how to keep de flies off de table. Miss Belle
is one fine 'oman, dey jua' don't come no finer and no better.

"When I was fourteen my Pa hired me out to be a shoemaker. De shop whar I was 'prenticed was
down on Broad Street, jus' about whar de Bernstein Furniture Store is now. Dat old buildin'
was tore down long years ago and evvything 'long dar is changed now. De Athens Hardware Store
is de only Broad Street business of dem days dat has stood in de same place and endured through
all dese years.

"When I went to wuk for Mr. Joe Barry in his shoe shop on Jackson Street, right in back of
whar Mr. Lee Morris' store is now, I felt lak I had got to be a real sho' 'nough important
shoemaker. I wuked for him 'bout 12 or 14 years. He was a good man to wuk for and he was de
only shoemaker I ever knowed to git rich at his trade; he really did make money in dat shop.
I've been a shoemaker ever since 1874, but I never have been able to git far ahead. In spite
of all our trouble for 85 years atter de war, it seems to me dat times was much better den
dan dey is now. Course, folks didn't make as much den as dey does now. Carpenters, bricklayers,
shoemakers, in fact 'most any kind of laborers who got from $1.00 to $1.50 a day thought dey
had fine wages den. Boys was paid from $2.50 to $5.00 a month. Cooks got $5.00 to $6.00 a month,
and of course, dey got deir meals whar dey wuked. Sometimes odds and ends of old clothes was
give to 'em, and dey got along very well, even if most of 'em did have families and big families
at dat. Folks could live on less den 'cause things was cheaper. You could git meal for 50¢
a bushel; side meat was 5¢ to 6¢ a pound; and you could git a 25-pound sack of flour for 50¢.
Wood was 50¢ a load. House rent was so cheap dat you didn't have to pay over $3.00 a month
for a 2 or 3 room house, and lots of times you got it cheaper. Most evvybody wore clothes made
out of homespun cloth and jeans, and dey didn't know nothin' 'bout ready-made, store-bought
clothes. Dem clothes what dey made at home didn't cost very much. Livin' was cheap, but folks
lived mighty well in dem days.

"Us has been married more dan 50 years and dey has all been happy years. Us has had our troubles
and hard luck, but dey come to evvybody. De Lord has been mighty good to us, 'specially in
lettin' us be together so long. It was what you might call a case of love at fust sight wid
us. I was visitin' down at Camak, Georgia at Christmastime. She lived at Sparta, and was spendin'
Christmas at Camak too, but I didn't see her 'til I was 'bout to leave for Athens. I jus' thought
I never could go 'way atter I fust seed her, but I did, and I didn't git to see her again for
12 long months. Us writ to one another all dat year and got married at Christmastime, one year
from de time us fust met.

"Us has still got dat old pen I used when I writ and axed her to marry me; I'd lak to show
it to you. 'Scuse me please whilst I goes in de house to git it." Soon Ike returned. "Ain't
it a sight?" he proudly exclaimed as he displayed the relic. "I made it up myself in December
1886 and it got her consent to marry me, so I'se kept it ever since. My wife and me wouldn't
part wid it for nothin'." The wooden pen staff is very smooth as though from long usage except
at the tip end, where it appears to have been gnawed. It looks very much as though Ike may
have chewed on it as he wrote that all important letter. The iron pen point, much too large
to fit the standard grooves of the ordinary pen staff, was placed on the staff and tightly
wrapped. After 52 years of service the pen point and its staff are still in good condition.
Ike has the Prince Albert coat that he wore on his wedding day and he insists that it looks
and fits as well now as it did on the occasion of his marriage. "I'm keepin' de coat and pen
for our chillun," he declared.

Before resuming the conversation, Ike went back in the house to put the treasured pen away.
In a few moments he returned. "God has been good to us," he said, "for He let us have all nine
of our chillun 'til dey was grown up. Us wuked mighty hard to raise 'em and give all of 'em
a good education. Dat was somepin us couldn't have when us was growin' up and I'm thankful
to be able to say dat us was able to send 'em all to college. Four of our chillun has gone
on ahead to de next world, and de five dat's left is scattered from place to place; none of
'em is wid us now, but dey don't forgit us. Dey writes to us and visits us often and us goes
to see dem. One son is goin' mighty well as a lawyer in Washin'ton, D.C., and our baby lives
in New York City. It's been 'bout 3 years now since my daughter Juliette died atter a automobile
wreck near Dalton, Georgia. Did you know 'bout Juliette? She give her life to wuk for de Y.W.C.A.,
and she went all over de world tryin' to make things better for de young women of our race.
Somebody writ a memorial book 'bout her. I wish dere was a copy of dat book here for you to
see, but it was borrowed from us and it ain't been returned.

"Did you know I had jus' come back from Washin'ton, whar I visited dat lawyer son of mine?
He sends for me nearly evvy summer and I enjoy visitin' dar, but I wouldn't lak to live up
dar 'cause dem folks ain't lak our own southern people. I must say dey is mighty nice and good
to me when I goes dar though. Once when I was dar somebody told me dat if I wanted to have
a good time I mustn't let nobody know I was a Georgian 'cause dey said dat de northerners don't
lak our State. De rest of de time I was dar on dat visit I tuk partic'lar pleasure in tellin'
evvybody how proud I was of my State and my home.

"Dat reminds me of Miss Sally Hodgson. She was in de North, and one evenin' she was tryin'
to tell de folks up dar dat de southern people warn't as bad as some of de Yankees had said
dey was, and dat de white folks down South didn't mistreat de colored folks. Miss Sally said
dat de very next mornin' de papers up dar was full of news 'bout de lynchin' of 8 Negroes in
one night at Watkinsville. If you had knowed Miss Sally, you would know how funny dat was,"
Ike laughed. "She said atter dat dere warn't no way she could convince dem folks up dar dat
Georgia was a good place to live in.

"Us had some good friends in de North and sometimes dey comes down here to see us. One of my
wife's friends, a 'oman wid a lot of education has jus' gone back to Philadelphia atter a visit
here in our home. Us travels a good deal and us has found dat de world ain't so large but dat
us is allus runnin' up against somebody dat us knows wherever us goes.

"Sometimes when you is in a strange place it's mighty handy to find somebody you have knowed
a long time ago. I 'member one time when I was visitin' in Washin'ton and wanted to git a glimpse
of de President. I didn't say nothin' to nobody 'bout what was on my mind, but atter my son
went to his wuk in de mornin' I slipped off to de capitol widout tellin' nobody whar I was
gwine. I found a waitin' room outside de President's office and I made up my mind I would set
dar 'til de President had to go out for dinner or to go home for supper. I never thought about
he might have a side door he could come and go from widout usin' de door to de waitin' room.
Atter I had set dar in dat waitin' room de best part of two days watchin' for de President,
somebody said: 'Howdy, Uncle Ike! What is you doin' here in de President's waitin' room?' I
looked up and dar stood Albon Holsey. He had growed up in Athens. He was de boy dey 'signed
to wait on President Taft when he was at Miss Maggie Welch's home for a day and night in January
'fore he was inaugurated. I bet Albon is still got dat $5.00 Mr. Taft give him de mornin' he
left Athens, but he don't need to spend it now 'cause folks say he got rich off of his chain
of stores for colored folks, and anyhow he's got a fine job dese days. Well, I s'plained to
Albon dat I was jus' waitin' to git a peep at de President whenever he happened to pass through
dat room. Albon he smiled sort of wise-like. He tuk out one of his cyards and writ sompin on
it, and axed a lady to take it right in to de President. She warn't gone 2 minutes 'fore she
come back and said: 'De President will see Mr. Holsey and his friend now.' I was wuss skeered
dan I has ever been at any other time in my life. Us walked in and I was 'fraid de President
could hear my knees knockin' together, and my heart was beatin' so fast and loud it seemed
to me lak it was 'bout to bust. De President spoke to us and when he found out dat I was from
Athens, he axed me lots of questions. He said dat he was interested in Athens. Soon Albon said
us must be goin' and when us got out of dar I was right weak, but I was might proud and happy
to think de President had tuk time to talk pleasant lak wid a pore old Negro shoemaker.

"Another time in Washin'ton a friend of my son's tuk me to a club one night whar some of de
richest of our race is members. Dat night I met a man who had went to school wid de Mr. Teddy
Roosevelt dat was President atter Mr. McKinley; den I met another Negro dat had been a classmate
of President Hoover and one dat went to school wid President Franklin D. Roosevelt. It's right
strange how dey all heads for Washin'ton, D.C. to stay.

"Athens has allus been a real quiet town, and dere never was no real serious trouble here 'tween
de races, not even when Matt Davis and Pink Morton was Postmasters here. People was allus predictin'
trouble 'bout dat, but de folks here was too level-headed for dat. Dey knowed dey could straighten
out deir own troubles widout havin' to fly off de handle in a race riot, and so dey 'tended
to deir own business' and de races got along all right through it all.

"Atter all, Athens is a good place to live in. Here us has de best neighbors in de world; dey's
allus ready to look atter one another in times of sickness and trouble. Wid de kind of good,
Christian folks dat lives here, Athens is bound to go ahead." The old Negro was busily engaged
at washing his clothes. He is of medium size, darker than gingerbread in color, and his clothing
on this day consisted of a faded blue shirt, pants adorned with many patches, and brogans.
A frayed sun hat covered the gray hair that is "gittin' mighty thin on de top of my haid."

Benny was singing as he worked and his quavering old voice kept tune and rhythm to a remarkable
degree as he carefully and distinctly pronounced:

  "Jesus will fix it for you,
   Just let Him have His way
   He knows just how to do,
   Jesus will fix it for you."

Almost in the same breath he began another song:

  "All my sisters gone,
   Mammy and Daddy too
   Whar would I be if it warn't
   For my Lord and Marster."

About this time he looked up and saw his visitor. Off came the old sun hat as he said: "'Scuse
me, Missy, I didn't know nobody was listenin' to dem old songs. I loves to sing 'em when I
gits lonesome and blue. But won't you come up on my porch and have a cheer in de shade? Dere's
a good breeze on dat little porch." Having placed a chair for the visitor and made himself
comfortable on a crude bench, Benny began his story:

"Missy, de good Lord gives and he takes away, and us old darkies is a-passin' out of dis world.
Dat was why I was a-singin'. One of my bestest friends done passed on to Glory dis very mornin'.
I knows I'se goin' to miss old Randal Clayton 'cause both of us warn't no good but for to set
and talk 'bout old times." Tears rolled down his face as he told of his friend, and the visitor,
fearful that he was too much overcome by grief to be able to give a good story, suggested that
another engagement be made to record his reminiscences, but he objected. "Lawsy, Missy!" he
protested. "Please don't go now, for dem old times is on my mind today and I would so love
to talk 'bout 'em now, if you don't mind. If I talks too much, jus' tell me, 'cause I'se mighty
apt to do dat when onct I gits started.

"My Mammy and Daddy, dey warn't from dis part of de country. My Mammy said dat not long atter
she got to America from a trip on de water dat took nigh 6 months to make, dey brung her from
Virginny and sold her down here in Georgy when she was jus' 'bout 16 years old. De onliest
name she had when she got to Georgy was Nancy. I don't know whar my Daddy come from. Him and
Mammy was both sold to Marse Isaac Dillard and he tuk 'em to live on his place in Elbert County,
close to de place dey calls Goose Pond. Dey lived at home on dat big old plantation. By dat,
I means dat Marse Isaac growed evvything needed to feed and clothe his folks 'cept de little
sugar, coffee, and salt dey used. I don't 'member so much 'bout times 'fore de big war 'cause
I warn't but 6 years old when us was made free. Tellin' de slaves dey was free didn't make
much diff'unce on our place, for most of 'em stayed right on dar and wukked wid Old Marster
jus' lak dey allus done. Dat plantation was jus' lak a little town, it was so big and it had
evvything us wanted and needed.

"Slaves lived in log cabins what had red mud daubed in de cracks 'twixt de logs. De roofs was
made out of boards what had so many cracks 'twixt 'em, atter a few rains made 'em swink (shrink),
dat us could lay in bed and see de stars through dem big holes. Even if us did have leaky houses,
folkses didn't git sick half as much as dey does now. Our homemade beds was made out of rough
planks nailed to high poles; leastways de poles was high for de headpieces, and a little lower
for de footpieces. For most of dem beds, planks was nailed to de wall for one long side and
dere was two laigs to make it stand straight on de other long side. Dey never seed no metal
springs dem days but jus' wove cords back and forth, up and down and across, to lay de mattress
on. I never seed no sto'-bought bed 'til atter I was married. Bedticks was made out of homespun
cloth stuffed wid wheatstraw, and sometimes dey slept on rye or oatstraw. Pillows was stuffed
wid hay what had a little cotton mixed in it sometimes. Atter a long day of wuk in de fields,
nobody bothered 'bout what was inside dem pillows. Dey slept mighty good lak dey was. Dey fixed
planks to slide across de inside of de holes dey cut out for windows. De doors swung on pegs
what tuk de place of de iron hinges dey uses dese days. Dem old stack chimblies was made out
of sticks and red mud.

