 One day, grant me but a single day, that I may collect the descendants of my sister
together, and save them!" And uttering these words, the wanderer fell upon his knees, and raised
his hands to heaven in a suppliant attitude.

Suddenly, the wind howled with redoubled violence; its sharp whistlings changed to a tempest.
The Wanderer trembled, and exclaimed in a voice of terror, "O Lord! the blast of death is howling
in its rage. It appears as though a whirlwind were lifting me up. Lord, wilt Thou not, then,
hear my prayer? The spectre! O! do I behold the spectre? Mercy, Lord, have mercy! 'Onward!'
Oh, Lord! this scourge, this terrible avenging scourge! Must I, then, again carry it into this
city, must my poor wretched brethren be the first to fall under it--though already so miserable?
Mercy, mercy! 'Onward!' And the descendants of my sister--oh, pray, have mercy, mercy! 'Onward!'
O Lord, have pity on me! I can no longer keep my footing on the ground, the spectre is dragging
me over the brow of the hill; my course is as rapid as the death-bearing wind that whistles
in my track; I already approach the walls of the city. Oh, mercy, Lord, mercy on the descendants
of my sister--spare them! do not compel me to be their executioner, and let them triumph over
their enemies. Onward, onward! The ground is fleeing from under me; I am already at the city
gate; oh, yet, Lord, yet there is time; oh, have mercy on this slumbering city, that it may
not even now awaken with the lamentations of terror, of despair and death! O Lord, I touch
the threshold of the gate; verily Thou willest it so then. 'Tis done--Paris! the scourge is
in thy bosom! oh, cursed, cursed evermore am I. Onward! on! on!"[34]

[34] In 1346, the celebrated Black Death ravaged the earth, presenting the same symptoms as
the cholera, and the same inexplicable phenomena as to its progress and the results in its
route. In 1660 a similar epidemic decimated the world. It is well known that when the cholera
first broke out in Paris, it had taken a wide and unaccountable leap; and, also memorable,
a north-east wind prevailed during its utmost fierceness.

CHAPTER II.

THE DESCENDANTS OF THE WANDERING JEW.

That lonely wayfarer whom we have heard so plaintively urging to be relieved of his gigantic
burden of misery, spoke of "his sister's descendants" being of all ranks, from the working
man to the king's son.

The son of the King of Mundi had lost his father and his domains in India by the irresistible
march of the English, and was but in title Prince Djalma. Spite of attempts to make his departure
from the East delayed until after the period when he could have obeyed his medal's command,
he had reached France by the second month of 1832. Nevertheless, the results of shipwreck had
detained him from Paris till after that date. A second possessor of this token had remained
unaware of its existence, only discovered by accident. But an enemy who sought to thwart the
union of these seven members, had shut her up in a mad-house, from which she was released only
after that day. Not alone was she in imprisonment. An old Bonapartist, General Simon, Marshal
of France, and Duke de Ligny, had left a wife in Russian exile, while he (unable to follow
Napoleon to St. Helena) continued to fight the English in India by means of Prince Djalma's
Sepoys, whom he drilled. On the latter's defeat, he had meant to accompany his young friend
to Europe, induced the more by finding that the latter's mother, a Frenchwoman, had left him
such another bronze medal as he knew his wife to have had.

Unhappily, his wife had perished in Siberia, without his knowing it, any more than he did,
that she had left twin daughters, Rose and Blanche. Fortunately for them, one who had served
their father in the Grenadiers of the Guard. Francis Baudoin, nicknamed Dagobert, undertook
to fulfil the dying mother's wishes, inspired by the medal. Saving a check at Leipsic, where
one Morok the lion-tamer's panther had escaped from its cage and killed Dagobert's horse, and
a subsequent imprisonment (which the Wandering Jew's succoring hand had terminated) the soldier
and his orphan charges had reached Paris in safety and in time. But there, a renewal of the
foe's attempt had gained its end. By skillful devices, Dagobert and his son Agricola were drawn
out of the way while Rose and Blanche Simon were decoyed into a nunnery, under the eyes of
Dagobert's wife. But she had been bound against interfering by the influence of the Jesuit
confessional. The fourth was M. Hardy, a manufacturer, and the fifth, Jacques Rennepont, a
drunken scamp of a workman, who were more easily fended off, the latter in a sponging house,
the former by a friend's lure. The fifth, unaware of the medal, was Gabriel, a youth, who had
been brought up, though a foundling, in Dagobert's family, as a brother to Agricola. He had
entered holy orders, and more, was a Jesuit, in name though not in heart. Unlike the others,
his return from abroad had been smoothed. He had signed away all his future prospects, for
the benefit of the order of Loyola, and, moreover, executed a more complete deed of transfer
on the day, the 13th of February, 1832, when he, alone of the heirs, stood in the room of the
house, No. 3, Rue St. Francois, claiming what was a vast surprise for the Jesuits, who, a hundred
and fifty years before, had discovered that Count Marius de Rennepont had secreted a considerable
amount of his wealth, all of which had been confiscated to them, in those painful days of dragoonings,
and the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. They had bargained for some thirty or forty millions
of francs to be theirs, by educating Gabriel into resigning his inheritance to them, but it
was two hundred and twelve millions which the Jesuit representatives (Father d'Aigrigny and
his secretary, Rodin) were amazed to hear their nursling placed in possession of. They had
the treasure in their hands, in fact, when a woman of strangely sad beauty had mysteriously
entered the room where the will had been read, and laid a paper before the notary. It was a
codicil, duly drawn up and signed, deferring the carrying out of the testament until the first
day of June the same year. The Jesuits fled from the house, in rage and intense disappointment.
Father d'Aigrigny was so stupor-stricken at the defeat, that he bade his secretary at once
write off to Rome that the Rennepont inheritance had escaped them, and hopes to seize it again
were utterly at an end. Upon this, Rodin had revolted, and shown that he had authority to command
where he had, so far, most humbly obeyed. Many such spies hang about their superior's heels,
with full powers to become the governor in turn, at a moment's notice. Thenceforward, he, Rodin,
had taken the business into his own hands. He had let Rose and Blanche Simon out of the convent
into their father's arms. He had gone in person to release Adrienne de Cardoville from the
asylum. More, having led her to sigh for Prince Djalma, he prompted the latter to burn for her.

He let not M. Hardy escape. A friend whom the latter treated as a brother, had been shown up
to him as a mere spy of the Jesuits; the woman whom he adored, a wedded woman, alas! who had
loved him in spite of her vows, had been betrayed. Her mother had compelled her to hide her
shame in America, and, as she had often said--"Much as you are endeared to me, I cannot waver
between you and my mother!" so she had obeyed, without one farewell word to him. Confess, Rodin
was a more dextrous man than his late master! In the pages that ensue farther proofs of his
superiority in baseness and satanic heartlessness will not be wanting.

CHAPTER III.

THE ATTACK.

On M. Hardy's learning from the confidential go-between of the lovers, that his mistress had
been taken away by her mother, he turned from Rodin and dashed away in a post carriage. At
the same moment, as loud as the rattle of the wheels, there arose the shouts of a band of workmen
and rioters, hired by the Jesuit's emissaries, coming to attack Hardy's operatives. An old
grudge long existing between them and a rival manufacturer's--Baron Tripeaud--laborers, fanned
the flames. When M. Hardy had left the factory, Rodin, who was not prepared for this sudden
departure, returned slowly to his hackney-coach; but he stopped suddenly, and started with
pleasure and surprise, when he saw, at some distance, Marshall Simon and his father advancing
towards one of the wings of the Common Dwelling-house; for an accidental circumstance had so
far delayed the interview of the father and son.

"Very well!" said Rodin. "Better and better! Now, only let my man have found out and persuaded
little Rose-Pompon!"

And Rodin hastened towards his hackney-coach. At this moment, the wind, which continued to
rise, brought to the ear of the Jesuit the war song of the approaching Wolves.

The workman was in the garden. The marshal said to him, in a voice of such deep emotion that
the old man started; "Father, I am very unhappy."

A painful expression, until then concealed, suddenly darkened the countenance of the marshal.

"You unhappy?" cried father Simon, anxiously, as he pressed nearer to the marshal.

"For some days, my daughters have appeared constrained in manner, and lost in thought. During
the first moments of our re-union, they were mad with joy and happiness. Suddenly, all has
changed; they are becoming more and more sad. Yesterday, I detected tears in their eyes; then
deeply moved, I clasped them in my arms, and implored them to tell me the cause of their sorrow.
Without answering, they threw themselves on my neck, and covered my face with their tears."

"It is strange. To what do you attribute this alteration?"

"Sometimes, I think I have not sufficiently concealed from them the grief occasioned me by
the loss of their mother, and they are perhaps miserable that they do not suffice for my happiness.
And yet (inexplicable as it is) they seem not only to understand, but to share my sorrow. Yesterday,
Blanche said to me: 'How much happier still should we be, if our mother were with us!--'"

"Sharing your sorrow, they cannot reproach you with it. There must be some other cause for
their grief."

"Yes," said the marshal, looking fixedly at his father; "yes--but to penetrate this secret--it
would be necessary not to leave them."

"What do you mean?"

"First learn, father, what are the duties which would keep me here; then you shall know those
which may take me away from you, from my daughters, and from my other child."

"What other child?"

"The son of my old friend, the Indian Prince."

"Djalma? Is there anything the matter with him?"

"Father, he frightens me. I told you, father, of his mad and unhappy passion for Mdlle. de
Cardoville."

"Does that frighten you, my son?" said the old man, looking at the marshal with surprise. "Djalma
is only eighteen, and, at that age, one love drives away another."

"You have no idea of the ravages which the passion has already made in the ardent, indomitable
boy; sometimes, fits of savage ferocity follow the most painful dejection. Yesterday, I came
suddenly upon him; his eyes were bloodshot, his features contracted with rage; yielding to
an impulse of mad furry, he was piercing with his poinard a cushion of red cloth, whilst he
exclaimed, panting for breath, 'Ha blood!--I will have blood!' 'Unhappy boy!' I said to him,
'what means this insane passion?' 'I'm killing the man!' replied he, in a hollow and savage
voice: it is thus he designates his supposed rival."

"There is indeed something terrible," said the old man, "in such a passion, in such a heart."

"At other times," resumed the marshal, "it is against Mdlle. de Cardoville that his rage bursts
forth; and at others, against himself. I have been obliged to remove his weapons, for a man
who came with him from Java, and who appears much attached to him, has informed me that he
suspected him of entertaining some thoughts of suicide."

"Unfortunate boy!"

"Well, father," said Marshal Simon, with profound bitterness; "it is at the moment when my
daughters and my adopted son require all my solicitude, that I am perhaps on the eve of quitting
them."

"Of quitting them?"

"Yes, to fulfil a still more sacred duty than that imposed by friendship or family," said the
marshal, in so grave and solemn a tone, that his father exclaimed, with deep emotion: "What
can this duty be?"

"Father," said the marshal, after remaining a moment in thoughtful silence, "who made me what
I am? Who gave me the ducal title, and the marshal's baton?"

"Napoleon."

"For you, the stern republican, I know that he lost all his value, when from the first citizen
of a Republic he became an emperor.

"I cursed his weakness," said Father Simon, sadly; "the demi-god sank into a man."

"But for me, father--for me, the soldier, who have always fought beside him, or under his eye--for
me, whom he raised from the lowest rank in the army to the highest--for me, whom he loaded
with benefits and marks of affection--for me, he was more than a hero, he was a friend--and
there was as much gratitude as admiration in my idolatry for him. When he was exiled, I would
fain have shared his exile; they refused me that favor; then I conspired, then I drew my sword
against those who had robbed his son of the crown which France had given him."

"And, in your position, you did well, Pierre; without sharing your admiration, I understood
your gratitude. The projects of exile, the conspiracies--I approved them all--you know it."

"Well, then, that disinherited child, in whose name I conspired seventeen years ago, is now
of an age to wield his father's sword."

"Napoleon II!" exclaimed the old man, looking at his son with surprise and extreme anxiety;
"the king of Rome!"

"King? no; he is no longer king. Napoleon? no; he is no longer Napoleon. They have given him
some Austrian name, because the other frightened them. Everything frightens them. Do you know
what they are doing with the son of the Emperor?" resumed the marshal, with painful excitement.
"They are torturing him--killing him by inches!"

"Who told you this?"

"Somebody who knows, whose words are but too true. Yes; the son of the Emperor struggles with
all his strength against a premature death. With his eyes turned towards France, he waits--he
waits--and no one comes--no one--out of all the men that his father made as great as they once
were little, not one thinks of that crowned child, whom they are stifling, till he dies."

"But you think of him?"

"Yes; but I had first to learn--oh! there is no doubt of it, for I have not derived all my
information from the same source--I had first to learn the cruel fate of this youth, to whom
I also swore allegiance; for one day, as I have told you, the Emperor, proud and loving father
as he was, showed him to me in his cradle, and said: 'My old friend, you will be to the son
what you have been to the father; who loves us, loves our France.'"

"Yes, I know it. Many times you have repeated those words to me, and, like yourself, I have
been moved by them."

"Well, father! suppose, informed of the sufferings of the son of the Emperor, I had seen--with
the positive certainty that I was not deceived--a letter from a person of high rank in the
court of Vienna, offering to a man that was still faithful to the Emperor's memory, the means
of communicating with the king of Rome, and perhaps of saving him from his tormentors--"

