Possibly, if I were to enter into a detail of the advantages I possess, they would appear of
a very negative character in the eyes of persons revelling in all the splendour and luxury
that wealth could procure, in a country in which nature and art are so eminently favourable
towards what is usually termed the pleasures of life; but I never was a votary at the shrine
of luxury or fashion. A round of company, a routine of pleasure, were to me sources of weariness,
if not of disgust. "There's nothing in all this to satisfy the heart," says Schiller; and I
admit the force of the sentiment.

I was too much inclined to spurn with impatience the fetters that etiquette and fashion are
wont to impose on society, till they rob its followers of all freedom and independence of will;
and they soon are obliged to live for a world that in secret they despise and loathe, for a
world, too, that usually regards them with contempt, because they dare not act with an independence,
which would be crushed directly it was displayed.

And I must freely confess to you that I do prize and enjoy my present liberty in this country
exceedingly: in this we possess an advantage over you, and over those that inhabit the towns
and villages in this country, where I see a ridiculous attempt to keep up an appearance that
is quite foreign to the situation of those that practise it. Few, very few, are the emigrants
that come to the colonies, unless it is with the view of realising an independence for themselves
or their children. Those that could afford to live in ease at home, believe me, would never
expose themselves to the privations and disagreeable consequences of a settler's life in Canada:
therefore, this is the natural inference we draw, that the emigrant has come hither under the
desire and natural hope of bettering his condition, and benefiting a family that he has not
the means of settling in life in the home country. It is foolish, then, to launch out in a
style of life that every one knows cannot be maintained; rather ought such persons to rejoice
in the consciousness that they can, if they please, live according to their circumstances,
without being the less regarded for the practice of prudence, economy, and industry.

Now, we bush-settlers are more independent: we do what we like; we dress as we find most suitable
and most convenient; we are totally without the fear of any Mr. or Mrs. Grundy; and having
shaken off the trammels of Grundyism, we laugh at the absurdity of those who voluntarily forge
afresh and hug their chains.

If our friends come to visit us unexpectedly we make them welcome to our humble homes, and
give them the best we have; but if our fare be indifferent, we offer it with good will, and
no apologies are made or expected: they would be out of place; as every one is aware of the
disadvantages of a new settlement; and any excuses for want of variety, or the delicacies of
the table, would be considered rather in the light of a tacit reproof to your guest for having
unseasonably put your hospitality to the test.

Our society is mostly military or naval; so that we meet on equal grounds, and are, of course,
well acquainted with the rules of good breeding and polite life; too much so to allow any deviation
from those laws that good taste, good sense, and good feeling have established among persons
of our class.

Yet here it is considered by no means derogatory to the wife of an officer or gentleman to
assist in the work of the house, or to perform its entire duties if occasion requires it; to
understand the mystery of soap, candle, and sugar-making; to make bread, butter, and cheese,
or even to milk her own cows; to knit and spin, and prepare the wool for the loom. In these
matters we bush-ladies have a wholesome disregard of what Mr. or Mrs. So-and-so thinks or says.
We pride ourselves on conforming to circumstances; and as a British officer must needs be a
gentleman and his wife a lady, perhaps we repose quietly on that incontestable proof of our
gentility, and can afford to be useful without injuring it.

Our husbands adopt a similar line of conduct: the officer turns his sword into a ploughshare,
and his lance into a sickle; and if he be seen ploughing among the stumps in his own field,
or chopping trees on his own land, no one thinks less of his dignity, or considers him less
of a gentleman, than when he appeared upon parade in all the pride of military etiquette, with
sash, sword and epaulette. Surely this is as it should be in a country where independence is
inseparable from industry; and for this I prize it.

Among many advantages we in this township possess, it is certainly no inconsiderable one that
the lower or working class of settlers are well disposed, and quite free from the annoying
Yankee manners that distinguish many of the earlier-settled townships. Our servants are as
respectful, or nearly so, as those at home; nor are they admitted to our tables, or placed
on an equality with us, excepting at "bees," and such kinds of public meetings; when they usually
conduct themselves with a propriety that would afford an example to some that call themselves
gentlemen, viz., young men who voluntarily throw aside those restraints that society expects
from persons filling a respectable situation.

Intemperance is too prevailing a vice among all ranks of people in this country; but I blush
to say it belongs most decidedly to those that consider themselves among the better class of
emigrants. Let none such complain of the airs of equality displayed towards them by the labouring
class, seeing that they degrade themselves below the honest, sober settler, however poor. If
the sons of gentlemen lower themselves, no wonder if the sons of poor men endeavour to exalt
themselves about him in a country where they all meet on equal ground; and good conduct is
the distinguishing mark between the classes.

Some months ago, when visiting a friend in a distant part of the country, I accompanied her
to stay a few days in the house of a resident clergyman, curate of a flourishing village in
the township of ------. I was struck by the primitive simplicity of the mansion and its inhabitants.
We were introduced into the little family sitting-room, the floor of which was painted after
the Yankee fashion; instead of being carpeted, the walls were of unornamented deal, and the
furniture of the room of corresponding plainness. A large spinning-wheel, as big as a cart-wheel,
nearly occupied the centre of the room, at which a neatly- dressed matron, of mild and lady-like
appearance, was engaged spinning yarn; her little daughters were knitting beside the fire,
while their father was engaged in the instruction of two of his sons; a third was seated affectionately
in a little straw chair between his feet, while a fourth was plying his axe with nervous strokes
in the court-yard, casting from time to time wistful glances through the parlour-window at
the party within.

The dresses of the children were of a coarse sort of stuff, a mixture of woollen and thread,
the produce of the farm and their mother's praiseworthy industry. The stockings, socks, muffatees,
and warm comforters were all of home manufacture. Both girls and boys wore mocassins, of their
own making: good sense, industry, and order presided among the members of this little household.

Both girls and boys seemed to act upon the principle, that nothing is disgraceful but that
which is immoral and improper.

Hospitality without extravagance, kindness without insincerity of speech, marked the manners
of our worthy friends. Every thing in the house was conducted with attention to prudence and
comfort. The living was but small (the income arising from it, I should have said), but there
was glebe land, and a small dwelling attached to it, and, by dint of active exertion without-doors,
and economy and good management within, the family were maintained with respectability: in
short, we enjoyed during our sojourn many of the comforts of a cleared farm; poultry of every
kind, beef of their own killing, excellent mutton and pork: we had a variety of preserves at
our tea-table, with honey in the comb, delicious butter, and good cheese, with divers sorts
of cakes; a kind of little pancake, made from the flour of buck-wheat, which are made in a
batter, and raised with barm, afterwards dropped into boiling lard, and fried; also a preparation
made of Indian corn-flour, called supporne-cake, which is fried in slices, and eaten with maple-syrup,
were among the novelties of our breakfast-fare.

I was admiring a breed of very fine fowls in the poultry-yard one morning, when my friend smiled
and said, "I do not know if you will think I came honestly by them."

"I am sure you did not acquire them by dishonest means," I replied, laughing; "I will vouch
for your principles in that respect."

"Well," replied my hostess, "they were neither given me, nor sold to me, and I did not steal
them. I found the original stock in the following manner. An old black hen most unexpectedly
made her appearance one spring morning at our door; we hailed the stranger with surprise and
delight; for we could not muster a single domestic fowl among our little colony at that time.
We never rightly knew by what means the hen came into our possession, but suppose some emigrant's
family going up the country must have lost or left her; she laid ten eggs, and hatched chickens
from them; from this little brood we raised a stock, and soon supplied all our neighbours with
fowls. We prize the breed, not only on account of its fine size, but from the singular, and,
as we thought, providential, manner in which we obtained it."

I was much interested in the slight sketch given by the pastor one evening, as we all assembled
round the blazing log-fire, that was piled half-way up the chimney, which reared its stone
fabric so as to form deep recesses at either side of its abutments.

Alluding to his first settlement, he observed, "it was a desolate wilderness of gloomy and
unbroken forest-trees when we first pitched our tent here: at that time an axe had not been
laid to the root of a tree, nor a fire, save by the wandering Indians, kindled in these woods.

"I can now point out the identical spot where my wife and little ones ate their first meal,
and raised their feeble voices in thankfulness to that Almighty and merciful Being who had
preserved them through the perils of the deep, and brought them in safety to this vast solitude.

"We were a little flock wandering in a great wilderness, under the special protection of our
mighty Shepherd.

"I have heard you, my dear young lady," he said, addressing the companion of my visit, "talk
of the hardships of the bush; but, let me tell you, you know but little of its privations compared
with those that came hither some years ago.

"Ask these, my elder children and my wife, what were the hardships of a bush-settler's life
ten years ago, and they will tell you it was to endure cold, hunger, and all its accompanying
evils; to know at times the want of every necessary article of food. As to the luxuries and
delicacies of life, we saw them not;--how could we? we were far removed from the opportunity
of obtaining these things: potatoes, pork, and flour were our only stores, and often we failed
of the two latter before a fresh supply could be procured. We had not mills nearer than thirteen
miles, through roads marked only by blazed lines; nor were there at that time any settlers
near us. Now you see us in a cleared country, surrounded with flourishing farms and rising
villages; but at the time I speak of it was not so: there were no stores of groceries or goods,
no butchers' shops, no cleared farms, dairies, nor orchards; for these things we had to wait
with patience till industry should raise them.

"Our fare knew no other variety than salt pork, potatoes, and sometimes bread, for breakfast;
pork and potatoes for dinner; pork and potatoes for supper; with a porridge of Indian corn-flour
for the children. Sometimes we had the change of pork without potatoes, and potatoes without
pork; this was the first year's fare: by degrees we got a supply of flour of our own growing,
but bruised into a coarse meal with a hand- mill; for we had no water or windmills within many
miles of our colony, and good bread was indeed a luxury we did not often have.

"We brought a cow with us, who gave us milk during the spring and summer; but owing to the
wild garlic (a wild herb, common to our woods), on which she fed, her milk was scarcely palatable,
and for want of shelter and food, she died the following winter, greatly to our sorrow: we
learned experience in this and in many other matters at a hard cost; but now we can profit by it."

"Did not the difficulties of your first settlement incline you to despond, and regret that
you had ever embarked on a life so different to that you had been used to?" I asked.

"They might have had that effect had not a higher motive than mere worldly advancement actuated
me in leaving my native country to come hither. Look you, it was thus: I had for many years
been the pastor of a small village in the mining districts of Cumberland. I was dear to the
hearts of my people, and they were my joy and crown in the Lord. A number of my parishioners,
pressed by poverty and the badness of the times, resolved on emigrating to Canada.

"Urged by a natural and not unlawful desire of bettering their condition, they determined on
crossing the Atlantic, encouraged by the offer of considerable grants of wild land, which at
that period were freely awarded by Government to persons desirous of becoming colonists.

"But previous to this undertaking, several of the most respectable came to me, and stated their
views and reasons for the momentous step they were about to take; and at the same time besought
me in the most moving terms, in the name of the rest of their emigrant friends, to accompany
them into the Wilderness of the West, lest they should forget their Lord and Saviour when abandoned
to their own spiritual guidance.

"At first I was startled at the proposition; it seemed a wild and visionary scheme: but by
degrees I began to dwell with pleasure on the subject. I had few ties beyond my native village;
the income arising from my curacy was too small to make it any great obstacle: like Goldsmith's
curate, I was.

'Passing rich with forty pounds a year.'

My heart yearned after my people; ten years I had been their guide and adviser. I was the friend
of the old, and the teacher of the young. She replied not by words, but I saw the big bright
tears fall on the work she held in her hand. They sprang from emotions too sacred to be profaned
by intrusive eyes, and I hastily averted my glance from her face; while the pastor proceeded
to narrate the particulars of their leaving England, their voyage, and finally, their arrival
in the land that had been granted to the little colony in the then unbroken part of the township
of ------.

"We had obtained a great deal of useful advice and assistance from the Government agents previous
to our coming up hither, and also hired some choppers at high wages to initiate us in the art
of felling, logging, burning, and clearing the ground; as it was our main object to get in
crops of some kind, we turned to without any delay further than what was necessary for providing
a temporary shelter for our wives and children, and prepared the ground for spring crops, helping
each other as we could with the loan of oxen and labour. And here I must observe, that I experienced
every attention and consideration from my friends. My means were small, and my family all too
young to render me any service; however, I lacked not help, and had the satisfaction of seeing
a little spot cleared for the growth of potatoes and corn, which I could not have effected
by my single exertions.

"My biggest boy John was but nine years old, Willie seven, and the others still more helpless;
the two little ones you see there," pointing to two young children, "have been born since we
came hither. That yellow-haired lassie knitting beside you was a babe at the breast;--a helpless,
wailing infant, so weak and sickly before we came here that she was scarcely ever out of her
mother's arms; but she grew and throve rapidly under the rough treatment of a bush-settler's
family.

"We had no house built, or dwelling of any kind to receive us when we arrived at our destination;
and the first two nights were passed on the banks of the creek that flows at the foot of the
hill, in a hut of cedar and hemlock boughs that I cut with my axe, and, with the help of some
of my companions, raised to shelter my wife and the little ones.

"Though it was the middle of May the nights were chilly, and we were glad to burn a pile of
wood in front of our hut to secure us from the effects of the cold and the stings of the mosquitoes,
that came up in myriads from the stream, and which finally drove us higher up the bank.

"As soon as possible we raised a shanty, which now serves as a shed for my young cattle; I
would not pull it down, though often urged to do so, as it stands in the way of a pleasant
prospect from the window; but I like to look on it, and recall to mind the first years I passed
beneath its lowly roof. We need such mementos to remind us of our former state; but we grow
proud, and cease to appreciate our present comforts.

"Our first Sabbath was celebrated in the open air: my pulpit was a pile of rude logs; my church
the deep shade of the forest, beneath which we assembled ourselves; but sincerer or more fervent
devotion I never witnessed than that day. I well remember the text I chose, for my address
to them was from the viiith chapter of Deuteronomy, the 6th, 7th, and 9th verses, which appeared
to me applicable to our circumstances.

"The following year we raised a small blockhouse, which served as a school-house and church.
At first our progress in clearing the land was slow, for we had to buy experience, and many
and great were the disappointments and privations that befel us during the first few years.
One time we were all ill with ague, and not one able to help the other; this was a sad time;
but better things were in store for us. The tide of emigration increased, and the little settlement
we had formed began to be well spoken of. One man came and built a saw mill; a grist-mill followed
soon after; and then one store and then another, till we beheld a flourishing village spring
up around us. Then the land began to increase in value, and many of the first settlers sold
their lots to advantage, and retreated further up the woods. As the village increased, so,
of course, did my professional duties, which had for the first few years been paid for in acts
of kindness and voluntary labour by my little flock; now I have the satisfaction of reaping
a reward without proving burdensome to my parishioners. My farm is increasing, and besides
the salary arising from my curacy I have something additional for the school, which is paid
by Government. We may now say it is good for us to be here, seeing that God has been pleased
to send down a blessing upon us."

I have forgotten many very interesting particulars relating to the trials and shifts this family
were put to in the first few years; but the pastor told us enough to make me quite contented
with my lot, and I returned home, after some days' pleasant sojourn with this delightful family,
with an additional stock of contentment, and some useful and practical knowledge, that I trust
I shall be the better for all my life.

I am rather interested in a young lad that has come out from England to learn Canadian farming.

The poor boy had conceived the most romantic notions of a settler's life, partly from the favourable
accounts he had read, and partly through the medium of a lively imagination, which had aided
in the deception, and led him to suppose that his time would be chiefly spent in the fascinating
amusements and adventures arising from hunting the forest in search of deer and other game,
pigeon and duck-shooting, spearing fish by torchlight, and voyaging on the lakes in a birch-bark
canoe in summer, skating in winter, or gliding over the frozen snow like a Laplander in his
sledge, wrapped up to the eyes in furs, and travelling at the rate of twelve miles an hour
to the sound of an harmonious peal of bells. What a felicitous life to captivate the mind of
a boy of fourteen, just let loose from the irksome restraint of boarding-school!

How little did he dream of the drudgery inseparable from the duties of a lad of his age, in
a country where the old and young, the master and the servant, are alike obliged to labour
for a livelihood, without respect to former situation or rank!

Here the son of the gentleman becomes a hewer of wood and drawer of water; he learns to chop
down trees, to pile brush-heaps, split rails for fences, attend the fires during the burning
season, dressed in a coarse over-garment of hempen cloth, called a logging-shirt, with trousers
to correspond, and a Yankee straw hat flapped over his eyes, and a handspike to assist him
in rolling over the burning brands. To tend and drive oxen, plough, sow, plant Indian corn
and pumpkins, and raise potatoe-hills, are among some of the young emigrant's accomplishments.
His relaxations are but comparatively few, but they are seized with a relish and avidity that
give them the greater charm.

You may imagine the disappointment felt by the poor lad on seeing his fair visions of amusement
fade before the dull realities and distasteful details of a young settler's occupation in the
backwoods.

Youth, however, is the best season for coming to this country; the mind soon bends itself to
its situation, and becomes not only reconciled, but in time pleased with the change of life.
There is a consolation, too, in seeing that he does no more than others of equal pretensions
as to rank and education are obliged to submit to, if they would prosper; and perhaps he lives
to bless the country which has robbed him of a portion of that absurd pride that made him look
with contempt on those whose occupations were of a humble nature. It were a thousand pities
wilfully to deceive persons desirous of emigrating with false and flattering pictures of the
advantages to be met with in this country. Let the pro and con be fairly stated, and let the
reader use his best judgment, unbiassed by prejudice or interest in a matter of such vital
importance not only as regards himself, but the happiness and welfare of those over whose destinies
Nature has made him the guardian. It is, however, far more difficult to write on the subject
of emigration than most persons think: it embraces so wide a field that what would be perfectly
correct as regards one part of the province would by no means prove so as regarded another.
One district differs from another, and one township from another, according to its natural
advantages; whether it be long settled or unsettled, possessing water privileges or not; the
soil and even the climate will be different, according to situation and circumstances.

Much depends on the tempers, habits, and dispositions of the emigrants themselves. What suits
one will not another; one family will flourish, and accumulate every comfort about their homesteads,
while others languish in poverty and discontent. It would take volumes to discuss every argument
for and against, and to point out exactly who are and who are not fit subjects for emigration.

Have you read Dr. Dunlop's spirited and witty "Backwoodsman?" If you have not, get it as soon
as you can; it will amuse you. I think a Backwoods-woman might be written in the same spirit,
setting forth a few pages, in the history of bush-ladies, as examples for our sex. Indeed,
we need some wholesome admonitions on our duties and the folly of repining at following and
sharing the fortunes of our spouses, whom we have vowed in happier hours to love "in riches
and in poverty, in sickness and in health." Too many pronounce these words without heeding
their importance, and without calculating the chances that may put their faithfulness to the
severe test of quitting home, kindred, and country, to share the hard lot of a settler's life;
for even this sacrifice renders it hard to be borne; but the truly attached wife will do this,
and more also, if required by the husband of her choice.

But now it is time I say farewell: my dull letter, grown to a formidable packet, will tire
you, and make you wish it at the bottom of the Atlantic.

The Indians were encamped on a little peninsula jutting out between two small lakes; our nearest
path would have been through the bush, but the ground was so encumbered by fallen trees that
we agreed to go in a canoe. The day was warm, without being oppressively hot, as it too often
is during the summer months: and for a wonder the mosquitoes and black- flies were so civil
as not to molest us. Our light bark skimmed gaily over the calm waters, beneath the overhanging
shade of cedars, hemlock, and balsams, that emitted a delicious fragrance as the passing breeze
swept through the boughs. I was in raptures with a bed of blue irises mixed with snow-white
water-lilies that our canoe passed over. Turning the stony bank that formed the point, we saw
the thin blue smoke of the camp curling above the trees, and soon our canoe was safely moored
alongside of those belonging to the Indians, and by help of the straggling branches and underwood
I contrived to scramble up a steep path, and soon found myself in front of the tent. It was
a Sunday afternoon; all the men were at home; some of the younger branches of the families
(for there were three that inhabited the wigwam) were amusing themselves with throwing the
tomahawk at a notch cut in the bark of a distant tree, or shooting at a mark with their bows
and arrows, while the elders reposed on their blankets within the shade, some reading, others
smoking, and gravely eyeing the young rival marksmen at their feats of skill.

Only one of the squaws was at home; this was my old acquaintance the hunter's wife, who was
sitting on a blanket; her youngest, little David, a papouse of three years, who was not yet
weaned, was reposing between her feet; she often eyed him with looks of great affection, and
patted his shaggy head from time to time. Peter, who is a sort of great man, though not a chief,
sat beside his spouse, dressed in a handsome blue surtout-coat, with a red worsted sash about
his waist. He was smoking a short pipe, and viewing the assembled party at the door of the
tent with an expression of quiet interest; sometimes he lifted his pipe for an instant to give
a sort of inward exclamation at the success or failure of his sons' attempts to hit the mark
on the tree. The old squaw, as soon as she saw me, motioned me forward, and pointing to a vacant
portion of her blanket, with a good-natured smile, signed for me to sit beside her, which I
did, and amused myself with taking note of the interior of the wigwam and its inhabitants.
The building was of an oblong form, open at both ends, but at night I was told the openings
were closed by blankets; the upper part of the roof was also open; the sides were rudely fenced
with large sheets of birch bark, drawn in and out between the sticks that made the frame-work
of the tent; a long slender pole of iron-wood formed a low beam, from which depended sundry
iron and brass pots and kettles, also some joints of fresh-killed venison and dried fish; the
fires occupied the centre of the hut, around the embers of which reposed several meek deer-hounds;
they evinced something of the quiet apathy of their masters, merely opening their eyes to look
upon the intruders, and seeing all was well returned to their former slumbers, perfectly unconcerned
by our entrance.

The hunter's family occupied one entire side of the building, while Joseph Muskrat with his
family, and Joseph Bolans and his squaw shared the opposite one, their several apartments being
distinguished by their blankets, fishing-spears, rifles, tomahawks, and other property; as
to the cooking utensils they seemed from their scarcity to be held in common among them; perfect
amity appeared among the three families; and, if one might judge from outward appearance, they
seemed happy and contented. On examining the books that were in the hands of the young men,
they proved to be hymns and tracts, one side printed in English, the other the Indian translation.
In compliance with our wishes the men sang one of the hymns, which sounded very well, but we
missed the sweet voices of the Indian girls, whom I had left in front of the house, sitting
on a pine-log and amusing themselves with my baby, and seeming highly delighted with him and
his nurse.

Outside the tent the squaw showed me a birch-bark canoe that was building; the shape of the
canoe is marked out by sticks stuck in the ground at regular distances; the sheets of bark
being wetted, and secured in their proper places by cedar laths, which are bent so as to serve
the purpose of ribs or timbers; the sheets of bark are stitched together with the tough roots
of the tamarack, and the edges of the canoe also sewed or laced over with the same material;
the whole is then varnished over with a thick gum.

I had the honour of being paddled home by Mrs. Peter in a new canoe, just launched, and really
the motion was delightful; seated at the bottom of the little bark, on a few light hemlock
boughs, I enjoyed my voyage home exceedingly. The canoe, propelled by the Amazonian arm of
the swarthy matron, flew swiftly over the waters, and I was soon landed in a little cove within
a short distance from my own door. In return for the squaw's civility I delighted her by a
present of a few beads for working mocassins and knife-sheaths, with which she seemed very
well pleased, carefully securing her treasure by tying them in a corner of her blanket with
a bit of thread.

With a peculiar reserve and gravity of temper, there is at the same time a degree of childishness
about the Indians in some things. I gave the hunter and his son one day some coloured prints,
which they seemed mightily taken with, laughing immoderately at some of the fashionably dressed
figures. When they left the house they seated themselves on a fallen tree, and called their
hounds round them, displaying to each severally the pictures.

The poor animals, instead of taking a survey of the gaily dressed ladies and gentlemen, held
up their meek heads and licked their masters' hands and faces; but old Peter was resolved the
dogs should share the amusement of looking at the pictures and turned their faces to them,
holding them fast by their long ears when they endeavoured to escape. I could hardly have supposed
the grave Indian capable of such childish behaviour.

These Indians appear less addicted to gay and tinselly adornments than formerly, and rather
affect a European style in their dress; it is no unusual sight to see an Indian habited in
a fine cloth coat and trousers, though I must say the blanket-coats provided for them by Government,
and which form part of their annual presents, are far more suitable and becoming. The squaws,
too, prefer cotton or stuff gowns, aprons and handkerchiefs, and such useful articles, to any
sort of finery, though they like well enough to look at and admire them; they delight nevertheless
in decking out the little ones, embroidering their cradle wrappings with silks and beads, and
tacking the wings of birds to their shoulders. I was a little amused by the appearance of one
of these Indian Cupids, adorned with the wings of the American war-bird; a very beautiful creature,
something like our British bullfinch, only far more lively in plumage: the breast and under-feathers
of the wings being a tint of the most brilliant carmine, shaded with black and white. This
bird has been called the "war-bird," from its having first made its appearance in this province
during the late American war; a fact that I believe is well authenticated, or at any rate has
obtained general credence.

I could hardly help smiling at your notion that we in the backwoods can have easy access to
a circulation library. In one sense, indeed, you are not so far from truth, for every settler's
library may be called a circulating one, as their books are sure to pass from friend to friend
in due rotation; and, fortunately for us, we happen to have several excellently furnished ones
in our neighbourhood, which are always open to us. There is a public library at York, and a
small circulating library at Cobourg, but they might just as well be on the other side of the
Atlantic for any access we can have to them.

I know how it is; at home you have the same idea of the facility of travelling in this country
as I once had: now I know what bush-roads are, a few miles' journey seems an awful undertaking.
Do you remember my account of a day's travelling through the woods? I am sorry to say they
are but little amended since that letter was written. I have only once ventured to perform
a similar journey, which took several hours hard travelling, and, more by good luck than any
other thing, arrived with whole bones at my destination. I could not help laughing at the frequent
exclamations of the teamster, a shrewd Yorkshire lad, "Oh, if I had but the driving of his
excellency the governor along this road, how I would make the old horses trot over the stumps
and stones, till he should cry out again; I warrant he'd do summut to mend them before he came
along them again."

Unfortunately it is not a statute-road on this side the river, and has been cut by the settlers
for their own convenience, so that I fear nothing will be done to improve it, unless it is
by the inhabitants themselves.

We hope soon to have a market for our grain nearer at hand than Peterborough; a grist-mill
has just been raised at the new village that is springing up. This will prove a great comfort
to us; we have at present to fetch flour up at a great expense, through bad roads, and the
loss of time to those that are obliged to send wheat to the town to be ground, is a serious
evil; this will soon be remedied, to the joy of the whole neighbourhood.

You do not know how important these improvements are, and what effect they have in raising
the spirits of the emigrant, besides enhancing the value of his property in no trifling degree.
We have already experienced the benefit of being near the saw-mill, as it not only enables
us to build at a smaller expense, but enables us to exchange logs for sawn lumber. The great
pine-trees which, under other circumstances, would be an encumbrance and drawback to clearing
the land, prove a most profitable crop when cleared off in the form of saw-logs, which is easily
done where they are near the water; the logs are sawn to a certain length, and dragged by oxen,
during the winter, when the ground is hard, to the lake's edge; when the ice breaks up, the
logs float down with the current and enter the mill-race; I have seen the lake opposite to
our windows covered with these floating timbers, voyaging down to the saw-mill.

How valuable would the great oaks and gigantic pines be on an estate in England; while here
they are as little thought of as saplings would be at home. Some years hence the timbers that
are now burned up will be regretted. Yet it is impossible to preserve them; they would prove
a great encumbrance to the farmer. The oaks are desirable for splitting, as they make the most
durable fences; pine, cedar, and white ash are also used for rail-cuts; maple and dry beech
are the best sorts of wood for fires: white ash burns well. In making ley for soap, care is
taken to use none but the ashes of hard wood, as oak, ash, maple, beech; any of the resinous
trees are bad for the purpose, and the ley will not mingle with the fat. In boiling, to the
great mortification of the uninitiated soap-boiler, who, by being made acquainted with this
simple fact, might have been spared much useless trouble and waste of material, after months
of careful saving.

An American settler's wife told me this, and bade me be careful not to make use of any of the
pine-wood ashes in running the ley. And here I must observe, that of all people the Yankees,
as they are termed, are the most industrious and ingenious; they are never at a loss for an
expedient: if one thing fails them they adopt another, with a quickness of thought that surprises
me, while to them it seems only a matter of course. They seem to possess a sort of innate presence
of mind, and instead of wasting their energies in words, they act. The old settlers that have
been long among them seem to acquire the same sort of habits, insomuch that it is difficult
to distinguish them. I have heard the Americans called a loquacious boasting people; now, as
far as my limited acquaintance with them goes, I consider they are almost laconic, and if I
dislike them it is for a certain cold brevity of manner that seems to place a barrier between
you and them.

I was somewhat struck with a remark made by a travelling clock-maker, a native of the state
of Ohio. After speaking of the superior climate of Ohio, in answer to some questions of my
husband, he said, he was surprised that gentlemen should prefer the Canadas, especially the
bush, where for many years they must want all the comforts and luxuries of life, to the rich,
highly cultivated, and fruitful state of Ohio, where land was much cheaper, both cleared and wild.

To this we replied that, in the first place, British subjects preferred the British government;
and, besides, they were averse to the manners of his countrymen. He candidly admitted the first
objection; and in reply to the last observed, that the Americans at large ought not to be judged
by the specimens to be found in the British colonies, as they were, for the most part, persons
of no reputation, many of whom had fled to the Canadas to escape from debt, or other disgraceful
conduct; and added, "It would be hard if the English were to be judged as a nation by the convicts
of Botany Bay."

Now there was nothing unfair or rude in the manners of this stranger, and his defence of his
nation was mild and reasonable, and such as any unprejudiced person must have respected him for.

I have just been interrupted by a friend, who has called to tell me he has an opportunity of
sending safe and free of expense to London or Liverpool, and that he will enclose a packet
for me in the box he is packing for England.

