"It is now settled that I am to go into his house. It is whispered that he intends to take
French leave to-morrow. I shall write you as fast as we proceed. My chariot is finished, and
I made my first appearance in it yesterday. It is simple, but elegant enough. My horses are
young, but clever.

"In the chamber of the House of Representatives, was a multitude as great as the space could
contain, and I believe scarcely a dry eye but Washington's. The sight of the sun setting full
orbed, and another rising, though less splendid, was a novelty. Chief Justice Ellsworth administered
the oath, and with great energy. Judges Cushing, Wilson, and Iredell, were present. Many ladies.
I had not slept well the night before, and did not sleep well the night after. I was unwell,
and did not know whether I should get through or not. I did, however. How the business was
received, I know not; only I have been told that Mason, the treaty publisher, said we should
lose nothing by the change, for he never heard such a speech in public in his life.

"All agree that, taken altogether, it was the sublimest thing ever exhibited in America.

"I am, my dearest friend, most affectionately and kindly yours,
                                                  "JOHN ADAMS."

On entering upon the duties of the Presidency, John Adams was greatly embarrassed in regard
to the line he should adopt toward his son. True, the younger Adams had been entrusted by Washington
with an important embassy abroad, and had acquitted himself with great credit in his responsible
station; but the father, with a delicacy highly honorable, hesitated continuing him in office,
lest he might be charged with unworthy favoritism, and a disposition to promote the interest
of his family at the expense of public good. In this exigency, not daring to trust his own
judgment, lest its decisions might be warped by parental solicitude, he resorted to the wisdom
and experience of Washington. Writing him for advice on this subject, he received the following
reply:--

                                              "Monday, Feb. 20, 1797.
"Dear Sir,

"I thank you for giving me a perusal of the enclosed. The sentiments do honor to the head and
the heart of the writer; and if my wishes would be of any avail, they should go to you in a
strong hope, that you will not withhold merited promotion from John Q. Adams, because he is
your son. For without intending to compliment the father or the mother, or to censure any others,
I give it as my decided opinion, that Mr. Adams is the most valuable public character we have
abroad; and that there remains no doubt in my mind, that he will prove himself to be the ablest
of all our diplomatic corps. If he was now to be brought into that line, or into any other
public walk, I could not, upon the principle which has regulated my own conduct, disapprove
of the caution which is hinted at in the letter. But he is already entered; the public, more
and more, as he is known, are appreciating his talents and worth; and his country would sustain
a loss, if these were to be checked by over delicacy on your part.

"With sincere esteem, and affectionate regard,
                             "I am ever yours,
                                 "GEORGE WASHINGTON."

This letter is characteristic of the discernment and nobleness of Washington. Appreciating
at a glance the perplexed position of Mr. Adams, and wisely discriminating between the bringing
forward of his son for the first time into public service, and the continuing him where he
had already been placed by others, and shown himself worthy of all trust and confidence, he
frankly advised him to overcome his scruples, and permit his son to remain in a career so full
of promise to himself and his country. President Adams, in agreement with this counsel, determined
to allow his son to continue in Europe in the public capacity to which he had been promoted
by Washington.

Shortly previous to the close of Washington's administration, he transferred the younger Adams
from the Hague, by an appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary to Portugal, but before proceeding
to Lisbon, his father, in the meantime having become President, changed his destination to
Berlin. He arrived in that city in the autumn of 1797, and immediately entered upon the discharge
of his duties as Minister of the United States. In 1798, while retaining his office at Berlin,
he was commissioned to form a commercial treaty with Sweden.

During his residence at Berlin, Mr. Adams, while attending with unsleeping diligence to his
public duties, did not forego the more congenial pursuits of literature. He cultivated the
acquaintance of many eminent German scholars and poets, and manifested a friendly sympathy
in their pursuits. In a letter to the late Dr. Follen writes of that day as follows:--

"At this time, Wieland was there the most popular of the German poets. And although there was
in his genius neither the originality nor the deep pathos of Goethe, Klopstock, or Schiller
there was something in the playfulness of his imagination, in the tenderness of his sensibility,
in the sunny cheerfulness of his philosophy, and in the harmony of his versification, which
delighted me."

To perfect his knowledge of the German language, Mr. Adams made a metrical translation of Wieland's
Oberon into the English language. The publication of this work, which at one time was designed,
was superseded by the appearance of a similar translation by Sotheby.

In the summer of 1800, Mr. Adams made a tour through Silesia. He was charmed with the inhabitants
of that region, their condition and habits. In many respects he found them bearing a great
similarity to the people of his own native New England. He communicated his impressions during
this excursion, in a series of letters to a younger brother in Philadelphia. These letters
were interesting, and were considered of great value at that time, in consequence of many important
facts they contained in regard to the manufacturing establishments of Silesia. They were published,
without Mr. Adams's knowledge, in the Port Folio, a weekly paper edited by Joseph Dennie, at
Philadelphia. The series was afterwards collected and published in a volume, in London, and
has been translated into German and French, and extensively circulated on the continent.

Among other labors while at Berlin, Mr. Adams succeeded in forming a treaty of amity and commerce
with the Prussian government. The protracted correspondence with the Prussian commissioners,
which resulted in this treaty, involving as it did the rights of neutral commerce, was conducted
with consummate ability on the part of Mr. Adams, and received the fullest sanction of the
government at home.

Mr. Adams' missions at the Hague and at Berlin, constituted his first step in the intricate
paths of diplomacy. They were accomplished amid the momentous events which convulsed all Europe,
at the close of the eighteenth century. Republican France, exasperated at the machinations
of the Allied Sovereigns to destroy its liberties, so recently obtained, was pushing its armies
abroad, determined, in self-defence, to kindle the flames of revolution in every kingdom on
the Continent. Great Britain, combined with Austria and other European powers, was using every
effort to crush the French democracy, and remove from before the eyes of down-trodden millions
an example so dangerous to monarchical institutions. The star of Napoleon had commenced its
ascent, with a suddenness and brightness which startled the imbecile occupants of old thrones.
His legions had rushed down from the Alps upon the sunny plains of Italy, and with the swoop
of an eagle, had demolished towns, cities, kingdoms.

Amid this conflict of nations, the commerce and navigation of the United States, a neutral
power, were made common object of prey to all. Great Britain and France especially, did not
hesitate to make depredations, at once the most injurious and irritating. Our ships were captured,
our rights disregarded. In the midst of these scenes, surrounded by difficulties and embarrassments
on every hand, the youthful ambassador was compelled to come into collision with the veteran
and wily politicians of the old world. How well he maintained the dignity and honor of his
government--how sleepless the vigilance with which he watched the movements on the vast field
of political strife--how prompt to protest against all encroachments--how skilful in conducting
negotiations--and how active to promote the interests of the Union, wherever his influence
could be felt--the  archives of our country will abundantly testify. It was a fitting and promising
commencement of a long public career which has been full of usefulness and of honor.

The administration of John Adams, as President of the United States, was characterized by great
prudence and moderation, considering the excited state of the times. There cannot be a doubt
he was anxious to copy the worthy example of his illustrious predecessor, in administering
the government on principles of strict impartiality, for the good of the whole people, without
respect to conflicting parties. Immediately on his inauguration, he had an interview with Mr.
Jefferson, then Vice- President, and proposed the adoption of steps that would have a tendency
to quell the spirit of faction which pervaded the country. That Mr. Jefferson, on his part,
cherished a profound respect for Mr. Adams, his old co-laborer in the cause of American freedom,
is evident from his letters and speeches of that day. In his speech on taking the chair of
the Senate, as Vice-President, he expressed himself in the following terms:--

"I might here proceed, and with the greatest truth, to declare my zealous attachment to the
Constitution of the United States; that I consider the union of these States as the first of
blessings; and as the first of duties the preservation of that Constitution which secures it;
but I suppose these declarations not pertinent to the occasion of entering into an office,
whose primary business is merely to preside over the forms of this House; and no one more sincerely
prays that no accident may call me to the higher and more important functions, which the Constitution
eventually devolves on this office. These have been justly confided to the eminent character
which has preceded me here, whose talents and integrity have been known and revered by me,
through a long course of years; have been the foundation of a cordial and uninterrupted friendship
between us; and I devoutly pray he may be long preserved for the government, the happiness
and the prosperity of our common country."

The sincere attempts of President Adams to produce harmony of political action among the American
people, were unavailing. The extraordinary events transpiring in Europe, exerted an influence
on domestic politics, which could not be neutralized. "The enemies of France"--"the friends
of England," or vice versa, were cries which convulsed the nation to its centre. The entire
population was sundered into contending parties.

John Adams was a true republican. His political opponents charged him with monarchical tendencies
and aspirations, but charged him most falsely. His life, devoted unreservedly to the service
of his country through all its dark and perilous journey to the achievement of its independence--his
public speeches and documents--his private letters, written to his bosom companion, with no
expectation that the eye of any other would ever rest upon them--all testify his ardent devotion
to the principles of republicanism. At the breaking out of the French Revolution, he yielded
it his hearty support, and did not withdraw his countenance, until compelled, by the scenes
of anarchy and of carnage which soon ensued, to turn away with horror and raise his voice against
proceedings of savage ferocity. But while condemning the excesses of the French revolutionists,
he was no friend of Great Britain. This is made evident by a multitude of facts. Read, for
instance, the following extract from a letter, not written for public effect, addressed to
his wife, dated Philadelphia, April 9, 1796:--

"I have read 'the minister's' dispatches from London. The King could not help discovering his
old ill humor. The mad idiot will never recover. Blunderer by nature, accidents are all against
him. Every measure of his reign has been wrong. It seems they don't like Pinckney. They think
he is no friend to that country, and too much of a French Jacobin. They wanted to work up some
idea or other of introducing another in his place, but our young politician [Footnote: J. Q.
Adams.] saw into them too deeply to be duped. At his last visit to Court, the King passed him
without speaking to him, which, you know, will be remarked by courtiers of all nations. I am
glad of it; for I would not have my son go so far as Mr. Jay, and affirm the friendly disposition
of that country to this. I know better. I know their jealousy, envy, hatred, and revenge, covered
under pretended contempt."

While President Adams cherished no partialities for Great Britain, and had no desire to promote
her especial interest, he was compelled by the force of circumstances, during his administration
to assume a hostile attitude towards France. The French Directory, chagrined at the failure
of all attempts to induce the government of the United States to abandon its neutrality and
take up arms in their behalf against the Allied Sovereigns, and deeply incensed at the treaty
recently concluded between England and the United States, resorted to retaliatory measures.
They adopted commercial regulations designed to cripple and destroy our foreign trade. They
passed an ordinance authorizing, in certain cases, the seizure and confiscation of American
vessels and cargoes. They refused to receive Mr. Pinckney, the American minister, and ordered
him peremptorily to leave France.

Mr. Adams convened Congress, by proclamation, on the 15th of June, 1797, and in his message
laid before that body a lucid statement of the aggressions of the French Directory. Congress
made advances, with a view to a reconciliation with France. But failing in this attempt, immediate
and vigorous measures were adopted to place the country in a condition for war. A small standing
army was authorized. The command was tendered to Gen. Washington, who accepted of it with alacrity,
sanctioning as he did these defensive measures of the government. Steps were taken for a naval
armament, and the capture of French vessels   authorized. These energetic demonstrations produced
their desired effect. The war proceeded no farther than a few collisions at sea. The French
Directory became alarmed, and made overtures of peace.

Washington did not survive to witness the restoration of amicable relations with France. On
the 14th of December, 1799, after a brief illness, he departed this life, at Mount Vernon,
aged sixty-eight years. On receiving this mournful intelligence, Congress, then in session
at Philadelphia, passed the following resolution:--

"Resolved, That the Speaker's chair should be shrouded in black; that the members should wear
black during the session, and that a joint committee, from the Senate and the House, be appointed
to devise the most suitable manner of paying honor to the memory of the Man, first in war,
first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."

Testimonials of sorrow were exhibited, and funeral orations and eulogies were delivered, throughout
the United States. The Father of his Country slept in death, and an entire people mourned his
departure!

On assuming the duties of the Presidency, the elder Adams found the finances of the country
in a condition of the most deplorable prostration. To sustain the government in this department,
it was deemed indispensable to establish a system of direct taxation, by internal duties. This
produced great dissatisfaction throughout the Union. An "alien law" was passed, which empowered
the President to banish from the United States, any foreigner whom he should consider dangerous
to the peace and safety of the country. And a "sedition law," imposing fine and imprisonment
for "any false, scandalous, and malicious writing against the government of the United States,
or either house of Congress, or the President."

These measures are not justly chargeable to John Adams. They were not recommended nor desired
by him; but were brought forward and urged by Gen. Hamilton and his friends. Nevertheless upon
Mr. Adams was heaped the odium they excited. The leading measures of his administration--the
demonstration against France; the standing army; the direct taxation; the alien and sedition
laws--all tended to injure his popularity with the mass of the people, and to destroy his prospects
of a re-election to the presidency. The perplexities he was compelled to encounter during his
administration, may be conceived on perusal of his language in a letter dated March 17, 1797:--

"From the situation where I now am, I see a scene of ambition beyond all my former suspicions
or imaginations; an emulation which will turn our government topsy-turvy. Jealousies and rivalries
have been my theme, and checks and balances as their antidotes, till I am ashamed to repeat
the words; but they never stared me in the face in such horrid forms as at present. I see how
the thing is going. At the next election England will set up Jay or Hamilton, and France Jefferson,
and all the corruption of Poland will be introduced; unless the American spirit should rise
and say, we will have neither John Bull nor Louis Baboon."

In 1800, the seat of government was removed to Washington. In taking possession of the President's
house, Mr. Adams bestowed a benediction on it, which must ever meet with a response from all
American hearts--" Before I end my letter, I pray heaven to bestow the best of blessings on
this house, and on all that shall hereafter inhabit it. May none but honest and wise men ever
rule under this roof!" A description of the house and the city, at that time, is furnished
in a letter from Mrs. Adams to her daughter, written in November, 1800:--

"I arrived here on Sunday last, and without meeting any accident worth noticing, except losing
ourselves when we left Baltimore, and going eight or nine miles on the Frederick road, by which
means we were obliged to go the other eight through the woods, where we wandered two hours
without finding a guide or the path. Fortunately, a straggling black came up with us, and we
engaged him as a guide to extricate us out of our difficulty; but woods are all you see, from
Baltimore, until you reach the city, which is only so in name. Here and there is a small cot,
without a glass window, interspersed among the forests, through which you travel miles without
seeing any human being. * * * * * * * * * The house is made habitable, but there is not a single
apartment finished, and all withinside, except the plastering, has been done since Briesier
came. We have not the least fence, yard, or other convenience without, and the great unfinished
audience-room I make a drying-room of, to hang up the clothes in. The principal stairs are
not up, and will not be this winter. Six chambers are made comfortable; two are occupied by
the President and Mr. Shaw; two lower rooms, one for a common parlor, and one for a levee room.
Up stairs there is the oval room, which is designed for the drawing-room, and has the crimson
furniture in it. It is a very handsome room now; but when completed, it will be beautiful."

The presidential contest in 1800, was urged with a warmth and bitterness, by both parties,
which has not been equalled in any election since that period. It was the first time two candidates
ever presented themselves to the people as rival aspirants for the highest honor in their gift.
Both were good men and true--both were worthy of the confidence of the country. But Mr. Adams,
weighed down by the unpopularity of acts adopted during his administration, and suffering under
the charge of being an enemy to revolutionary France, and a friend of monarchical England,
was distanced and defeated by his competitor. Mr. Jefferson was elected the third President
of the Republic, and was inaugurated on the 4th of March, 1801. One of the last acts of John
Adams, before retiring from the Presidency, was to recall his son from Berlin, that Mr. Jefferson
might have no embarrassment in that direction.

John Quincy Adams returned to the United States from his first foreign embassy, in 1801. During
the stormy period of his father's administration, and the ensuing presidential canvass, he
was fortunately absent from the country. Had he been at home, his situation would have been
one of great delicacy. It can hardly be supposed he would have opposed his father's measures,
or his reelection. Yet to have thrown his influence in their behalf, would have subjected him
to the imputation of being moved by filial attachment rather than the convictions of duty.
From this painful dilemma, he was saved by his foreign residence. He came home uncommitted
to party measures, untrammelled by party tactics or predilections; and thus stood before the
people, as he could wish to stand, perfectly unshackled, and ready to act as duty and conscience
should direct.

Arriving in the United States with distinguished honors gained by successful foreign diplomacy,
Mr. Adams was not allowed to remain long in inactivity. In 1802 be was elected to the Senate
of Massachusetts, from the Boston district. During his services in that body, he gave an indication
of that independence, as a politician, which characterized him through life, by his opposition
to a powerful combination of banking interests, which was effected among his immediate constituents.
Although his opposition was unavailing, yet it clearly showed that the integrity of the man
was superior to the policy of the mere politician. But higher honors awaited him.

In 1803, he was elected to the Senate of the United States, by the Legislature of Massachusetts.
Thus at the early age of thirty-six years, he had attained to the highest legislative body
of the Union. Young in years, but mature in talent and experience, he took his seat amid the
conscript fathers of the country, to act a part which soon drew upon him the eyes of the nation,
both in admiration and in censure.

The period of Mr. Adams' service in the United States Senate, was one in which the position
and the interests of the country were surrounded by embarrassments and perils of the most threatening
character. The party which had supported his father had become divided and defeated. Mr. Jefferson,
elevated to the Presidency after a heated and angry contest, was an object of the dislike and
suspicion of the Federalists, The conflicts of the belligerent nations in Europe, and the measures
of foreign policy they severally adopted, not only affected the interests of the United States,
but were added elements to inflame the party contests at home.

In 1804, Bonaparte stepped from the Consul chamber to the throne of the French Empire. All
Europe was bending to his giant rule. Great Britain alone, with characteristic and inherent
stubbornness, had set itself as a rock against his ambitious aspirations, and prosecuted with
unabated vigor its determined hostility to all his measures of trade and of conquest. In November,
1807, the British Government issued the celebrated "Orders in Council," forbidding all trade
with France and her allies. This measure was met by Napoleon, in December, with his "Milan
Decree," prohibiting every description of commerce with England or her colonies. Between these
checks and counterchecks of European nations, the commerce of the United States was in peril
of being swept entirely from the ocean.

During most of this perplexed and trying period, Mr. J. Q. Adams retained his seat in the United
States Senate. Although sent there by the suffrages of the Federal party, in the Massachusetts
Legislature, yet he did not, and would not, act simply as a partisan. This in fact was a prominent
characteristic in Mr. Adams throughout his entire life, and is the key which explains many
of his acts otherwise inexplicable. His noble and patriotic spirit arose above the shackles
of party. He loved the interests of his country, the happiness of Man, more than the success
of a mere party. So far as the party with which he acted advocated measures which he conceived
to be wise and healthful, he yielded his hearty and vigorous co-operation. But whenever it
swerved from this line of integrity, his influence was thrown into the opposite scale. This
was the rule of his long career. No persuasions or emoluments, no threats, no intimidations,
could turn him from it, to the breadth of a hair. It was in consequence of this characteristic,
that it has so frequently been said of Mr. Adams, that he was not a reliable party man. This
was to a degree true. He was not reliable for any policy adopted simply to promote party interests,
and secure party ends. But in regard to all measures which in his judgment would advance the
welfare of the people, secure the rights of man, and elevate the race, no politician, no statesman
the world has produced, could be more perfectly relied upon.

This disposition to act right, whether with or against his party, was developed by the first
vote he ever gave in a legislative body. While in the Massachusetts Senate, the Federalists
were the dominant party. It was the custom in that State, to choose the whole of the Governor's
Council from the party which had the majority in the Legislature. In May, 1802, Mr. Adams was
desirous that a rule should be adopted more regardful of the rights of the minority. He accordingly
proposed that several anti-Federalists should have seats in the Council of Gov. Strong, and
gave his first vote to that measure.

On a certain occasion, Mr. Adams was asked, "What are the recognized principles of politics?"
He replied, that there were no principles in politics--there were recognized precepts, but
they were bad ones. But, continued the inquirer, is not this a good one--"To seek the greatest
good of the greatest number?" No, said he, that is the worst of all, for it looks specious,
while it is ruinous. What shall become of the minority, in that case?  This is the only principle
to seek--"the greatest good of all." [Footnote: Massachusetts Quarterly, June, 1849.]

A few months after Mr. Adams' entrance into the Senate of the United States, a law was passed
by Congress, at the suggestion of Mr. Jefferson, authorizing the purchase of Louisiana. Mr.
Adams deemed this measure an encroachment on the Constitution of the United States, and opposed
it on the ground of its unconstitutionality. He was one of six senators who voted against it.
Yet when the measure had been legally consummated, he yielded it his support. In passing laws
for the government of the territory thus obtained, the right of trial by jury was granted only
in capital cases. Mr. Adams labored to have it extended to all criminal offences. Before the
territory had a representative in Congress, the government proposed to levy a tax on the people
for purposes of revenue. This attempt met the decided opposition of Mr. Adams. He insisted
it would be an exercise of government, without the consent of the governed, which, to all intents,
is a despotism.

In 1805, he labored to have Congress pass a law levying a duty on the importation of slaves.
This was the first public indication of his views on the subject of slavery. It was a premonition
of the bold, unflinching, noble warfare against that institution, and of the advocacy of human
freedom and human rights in the widest sense, which characterized the closing scenes of his
remarkable career, and which will perpetuate his fame, when other acts of his life shall have
passed from the remembrance of men. Although at that early day but little was said in regard
to slavery, yet the young senator saw it was fraught with danger to the Union--conferring political
power and influence on slaveholders, on principles false and pernicious, and calculated ultimately
to distract the harmony of the country, and endanger the permanency of our free institutions.
He labored, therefore, to check the increase of slave power, by the only means which, probably,
appeared feasible at that time.

But a crisis in his senatorial career at length arrived. The commerce of the United States
had suffered greatly by "Orders in Council," and "Milan Decrees." Our ships were seized, conducted
into foreign ports and confiscated, with their cargoes. American seamen were impressed by British
cruisers, and compelled to serve in a foreign navy. The American frigate Philadelphia, while
near the coast of the United States, on refusing to give up four men claimed to be British
subjects, was fired into by the English man-of-war Leopard, and several of her crew killed
and wounded. These events caused the greatest excitement in the United States. Petitions, memorials,
remonstrances, were poured in upon Congress from every part of the Union. Mr. Jefferson endeavored
by embassies, negotiations, and the exertion of every influence in his power, to arrest these
destructive proceedings, and obtain a redress of grievances. But all was in vain. At length
he determined on an embargo, as the only means of securing our commerce from the grasp of the
unscrupulous mistress of the seas. An act to that effect was passed in Dec., 1807. This effectually
prostrated what little foreign commerce had been left to the United States.

In these proceedings Mr. Jefferson was stoutly opposed by the Federal party. Massachusetts,
then the chief commercial State in the Union, resisted with its utmost influence the Embargo
Act, as pre-eminently destructive to its welfare, and looked to its Senators and Representatives
in Congress to urge an opposition to the extreme. What course should Mr. Adams adopt? On the
one hand, personal friendship, the party which elected him to the Senate, the immediate interests
of his constituents, called upon him to oppose the measures of the administration. On the other
hand, more enlarged considerations presented themselves. The interest, the honor, the ultimate
prosperity of the whole country--its reputation and influence in the eyes of the world--demanded
that the Government should be supported in its efforts to check the aggressions of foreign
nations, and establish the rights of American citizens. In such an alternative John Quincy
Adams could not hesitate. Turning from all other considerations but a desire to promote the
dignity and welfare of the Union, he threw himself, without reserve, into the ranks of the
administration party, and labored zealously to second the measures of Mr. Jefferson.

This act subjected Mr. Adams to the severest censure. He was charged with basely forsaking
his party--with the most corrupt venality--with the low motive of seeking to promote ambitious
longings and selfish ends. But those who made these charges in sincerity labored under an entire
misapprehension of his character and principles of action. At this day, aided by the instructive
history of his life, and by a perfect knowledge of his patriotism and devotion to truth and
principle, as developed in his long and spotless career, it is clearly seen that in the event
under consideration he but acted up to the high rule he had adopted, of making party and sectional
considerations secondary to the honor and interest of the nation--an example which no pure
and high-minded statesman can hesitate to follow.

The Legislature of Massachusetts disapproved the course of Mr. Adams. By a small majority of
Federal votes, it elected another person to take his place in the Senate at the expiration
of his term, and passed resolutions instructing its Senators in Congress to oppose the measures
of Mr. Jefferson. Mr. Adams could not, consistently with his views of duty, obey these instructions;
and having no disposition to represent a body whose confidence he did not retain, he resigned
his seat in the Senate, in March, 1808.

Although Mr. Adams gave most of his days to the service of his country, yet he was fond of
literary pursuits, and acquired, during his hours of relaxation from sterner duties, a vast
fund of classic lore and useful learning. At an early day, he had become distinguished as a
ripe scholar, and an impressive, dignified, and eloquent public speaker. His reputation for
literary and scholastic attainments quite equalled his fame as a politician and statesman.

In 1804, on the death of President Willard, Mr. Adams was urged by several influential individuals,
to be a candidate for the presidency of Cambridge University. He declined the proffered honor.
During the following year, however, he was appointed Professor of Rhetoric and Belles Lettres,
in that institution. He accepted the office, on condition that he should be allowed to discharge
its duties at such times as his services in Congress would permit. His inaugural address, on
entering the professorship, was delivered on the 12th of June, 1806. His lectures on rhetoric
and oratory were very popular. They were attended by large crowds from Boston and the surrounding
towns, in addition to the collegiate classes--a compliment which few of the professors since
his day have received.

Mr. Adams continued his connection with the University, delivering lectures and conducting
exercises in declamation, until July, 1809. "It was at this time, and as a member of one of
the younger classes at college, that I first saw Mr. Adams, and listened to his well-remembered
voice from the chair of instruction; little anticipating, that after the lapse of forty years,
my own humble voice would be heard, in the performance of this mournful office. Some who now
hear me will recollect the deep interest with which these lectures were listened to, not merely
by the youthful audience for which they were prepared, but by numerous voluntary hearers from
the neighborhood. They formed an era in the University; and were, I believe, the first successful
attempt, in this country, at this form of instruction in any department of literature. They
were collected and published in two volumes, completing the theoretical part of the subject.
I think it may be fairly said, that they will bear a favorable comparison with any treatise
on the subject, at that time extant in our language. The standard of excellence, in every branch
of critical learning, has greatly advanced in the last forty years, but these lectures may
still be read with pleasure and instruction. Considered as a systematic and academical treatise
upon a subject which constituted the chief part of the intellectual education of the Greeks
and Romans, these lectures, rapidly composed as they were delivered, and not revised by the
author before publication, are not to be regarded in the light of a standard performance. But
let any statesman or jurist, even of the present day, in America or Europe--whose life, like
Mr. Adams's, has been actively passed in professional and political engagements, at home and
abroad--attempt, in the leisure of two or three summers--his mind filled with all the great
political topics of the day--to prepare a full course of lectures on any branch of literature,
to be delivered to a difficult and scrutinizing, though in part a youthful audience, and then
trust them to the ordeal of the press, and he will be prepared to estimate the task which was
performed by Mr. Adams." [Footnote: Edward Everett's Eulogy on the Life and Character of John
Quincy Adams.]

Mr. Adams's devotion to literary pursuits was destined to an early termination. On the 4th
of March, 1809, Mr. Madison was inducted into the office of President of the United Slates.
It was at that time far from being an enviable position. At home the country was rent into
contending factions. Our foreign affairs were in a condition of the utmost perplexity, and
evidently approaching a dangerous crisis. The murky clouds of war, which had for years overshadowed
Europe, seemed rolling hitherward, filling the most sanguine and hopeful minds with deep apprehension.
Russia, under its youthful Emperor Alexander, was rising to a prominent and influential position
among the nations of Europe. Mr. Madison deemed it of great importance that the United States
should be represented at that court by some individual eminent alike for talents, experience,
and influence. John Quincy Adams was selected for the mission. In March, 1809, he was appointed
Minister to Russia, and the summer following, sailed for St. Petersburgh.

In the meantime, our relations with Great Britain became every day more dubious. While striving,
in every honorable manner, to come to terms of reconciliation, President Madison was making
rapid preparations for war. The people of the United States, deprived by the non-intercourse
act of the cheap productions of England, began to turn their attention and capital to domestic
manufactures. At length the American Government demanded peremptorily, that the restrictions
of Great Britain and France on our commerce should be abrogated; war being the alternative
of a refusal. The French emperor gave satisfactory assurances that the Berlin decree should
be withdrawn. The English government hesitated, equivocated, and showed evident disinclination
to take any decided step.

"In this doubtful state of connexion between America and England, an accidental collision took
place between vessels of the respective countries, tending much to inflame and widen the existing
differences. An English sloop-of-war, the Little Belt, commanded by Capt. Bingham, descried
a ship off the American coast, and made sail to come up with it; but finding it a frigate,
and dubious of its nation, he retired. The other, which proved to be American, the President,
under Capt. Rogers, pursued in turn. Both captains hailed nearly together; and both, instead
of replying, hailed again; and from words, as it were, came to blows, without explanation.
Capt. Bingham lost upwards of thirty men, and his ship suffered severely. A Court of Inquiry
was ordered on the conduct of Capt. Rogers, which decided that it had been satisfactorily proved
to the court, that Capt. Rogers hailed the Little Belt first, that his hail was not satisfactorily
answered, that the Little Belt fired the first gun, and that it was without previous provocation
or justifiable cause." [Footnote: Lives of the Presidents.]

Several attempts were made after this, to preserve the peace of the two countries, but in vain.
England, it is true, withdrew her obnoxious Orders in Council. It was, however, too late. Before
intelligence of this repeal reached the shores of the United States, war was declared by Congress,
on the 18th of June, 1812.

It was a popular war. Although strenuously opposed by portions of the Eastern States, as destructive
to their commerce, yet with the mass of the people throughout the Union, it was deemed justifiable
and indispensible. A long series of insults and injuries on the part of Great Britain--the
seizure and confiscation of our ships and cargoes; the impressing of our seamen, under circumstances
of the most irritating description; and the adoption of numerous measures to the injury of
our interests--had fully prepared the public mind in the United States, with the exception
of a small minority, to enter upon this war with zeal and enthusiasm.

With occasional reverses, general success attended our arms in every direction. On land and
on sea, the American eagle led to victory. The combatants were worthy of each other. Of the
same original stock--of the same stern, unyielding material--their contests were bloody and
destructive in the extreme. But the younger nation, inspirited by a sense of wrongs endured,
and of the justness of its cause, bore away the palm, and plucked from the brow of its more
aged competitor many a laurel yet green from the ensanguined fields of Europe. In scores of
hotly-contested battles, the British lion, unused as it was to cower before a foe, was compelled
to "lick the dust" in defeat. At York, at Chippewa, at Fort Erie, at Lundy's Lane, at New Orleans,
on Lake Champlain, on Lake Erie, on the broad ocean, Great Britain and the world were taught
lessons of American valor, skill, and energy, which ages will not obliterate.

This war, though prosecuted at the expense of many valuable lives, and of a vast public debt,
was, unquestionably, highly beneficial to the United States. It convinced all doubters that
our government was abundantly able to resent aggressions, and to maintain its rights against
the assaults of any nation on earth. This reputation has been of great service in protecting
our commerce, and commanding respect for our flag, throughout the world. But the chief benefit
of the war was the development of our internal resources, which, after all, form the great
fountain of the wealth, strength, and permanence of a nation. Deprived by the embargo, the
non-intercourse act, and the ensuing hostilities, of all foreign importation of goods, the
American people were compelled to supply themselves by their own industry and ingenuity, with
those articles for which they had always before been dependent on their transatlantic neighbors.
Thus was laid the foundation of that system of domestic manufactures which is destined to make
the United States the greatest productive mart among men, and to bring into its lap the wealth
of the world.

Mr. Adams arrived at St. Petersburg, as Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States, in
the autumn of 1809. Twenty-eight years before, while a lad of fourteen, he was at the same
place, as private secretary to Mr. Dana, the American Minister. The promising boy returned
to the northern capital a mature man, ripe in experience, wisdom, patriotism, and prepared
to serve his country in the highest walks of diplomacy.

The United Slates, though but little known in Russia at that period, was still looked upon
with favor, as a nation destined, in due time, to exert a great influence upon the affairs
of the world. Mr. Adams was received with marked respect at the Court of St. Petersburg. His
familiarity with the French and German languages--the former the diplomatic language of Europe--his
literary acquirements, his perfect knowledge of the political relations of the civilized world,
his plain appearance, and republican simplicity of manners, in the midst of the gorgeous embassies
of other nations, enabled him to make a striking and favorable impression on the Emperor Alexander
and his Court. The Emperor, charmed by his varied qualities, admitted him to terms of personal
intimacy seldom granted to the most favored individuals.

During his residence in Russia, the death of Judge Cushing caused a vacancy on the bench of
the Supreme Court of the United States. President Madison nominated Mr. Adams to the distinguished
office. The nomination was confirmed by the Senate, but he declined its acceptance.

A circumstance occurred at this time, which attracted the attention of Mr. Adams. The Russian
Minister of the Interior, then advanced in years, having received many valuable presents while
in office, became troubled with scruples of conscience, in regard to the disposal he should
make of them. He at length calculated the value of all his gifts, and paid the sum into the
imperial treasury. This transaction made a deep impression on Mr. Adams, and probably led him
to the resolution of never accepting gifts. In order to act with that freedom of bias which
he deemed indispensable to the faithful discharge of public duty, he endeavored to avoid, as
far as possible, laying himself under obligations to any man. When a certain bookseller once
sent him an elegant copy of the Scriptures, he kept the book, but returned its full equivalent
in money.

While sojourning at St. Petersburg, Mr. Adams wrote a series of letters to a son at school
in Massachusetts, on the value of the Bible, and the importance of its daily perusal. Since
his decease they have been published in a volume, entitled "Letters of John Quincy Adams to
his son, on the Bible and its teachings." "Their purpose is the inculcation of a love and reverence
for the Holy Scriptures, and a delight in their perusal and study. Throughout his long life,
Mr. Adams was himself a daily and devout reader of the Scriptures, and delighted in comparing
and considering them in the various languages with which he was familiar, hoping thereby to
acquire a nicer and clearer appreciation of their meaning. The Bible was emphatically his counsel
and monitor through life, and the fruits of its guidance are seen in the unsullied character
which he bore, through the turbid waters of political contention, to his final earthly rest.
Though long and fiercely opposed and contemned in life he left no man behind him who would
wish to fix a stain on the name he has inscribed so high on the roll of his country's most
gifted and illustrious sons. The intrinsic value of these letters, their familiar and lucid
style, their profound and comprehensive views, their candid and reverent spirit, must win for
them a large measure of the public attention and esteem. But, apart from even this, the testimony
so unconsciously borne by their pure-minded and profoundly learned author, to the truth and
excellence of the Christian faith and records, will not be lightly regarded. It is no slight
testimonial to the verity and worth of Christianity, that in all ages since its promulgation,
the great mass of those who have risen to eminence by their profound wisdom, integrity, and
philanthropy, have recognized and reverenced, in Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of the living God.
To the names of Augustine, Xavier, Fenelon, Milton, Newton, Locke, Lavater, Howard, Chateaubriand,
and their thousands of compeers in Christian faith, among the world's wisest and noblest, it
is not without pride that the American may add, from among his countrymen, those of such men
as WASHINGTON, JAY, PATRICK HENRY, and JOHN QUINCY ADAMS." [Footnote: Preface to "Letters of
John Quincy Adams to his Son, on the Bible and its Teachings."]

Mr. Adams was a practical Christian. This is proved by his spotless life, his strict honesty
and integrity, his devotion to duty, his faithful obedience to the dictates of conscience,
at whatever sacrifice, his reverence of God, of Christ, his respect for religion and its institutions,
and recognition of its claims and responsibilities. Although a Unitarian [Footnote: Mr. Adams
was a member of the Unitarian Church in Quincy, Mass., at his death.] in his belief of doctrines,
yet he was no sectarian. In religion, as in politics, he was independent of parties. He would
become linked to no sect in such manner as to prevent him from granting his countenance and
assistance wherever he thought proper. He was a frequent attendant at Presbyterian and Episcopalian
churches, and was liberal in his contributions to these and other denominations; it being his
great desire to aid in building up Christianity, and not a sect.

The influence which Mr. Adams had obtained at St. Petersburg, with the Emperor and his Court,
was turned to the best account. It laid the foundation of those amicable relations which have
ever characterized the intercourse of that government with the United States. To this source,
also, is unquestionably to be attributed the offer, by the Emperor Alexander, of mediation
between Great Britain and the United States. This offer was accepted by the American Government,
and Mr. Adams, in connection with Messrs. Gallatin and Bayard, was appointed by the President
to take charge of the negotiation. The latter gentlemen joined Mr. Adams at St. Petersburg,
in July, 1813. Conferences were held by the Commissioners with Count Romanzoff, the Chancellor
of the Russian Empire, with a view to open negotiations. The British Government, however, refused
to treat under the mediation of Russia; but proposed at the same time to meet American Commissioners
either at London or Gottenburg. Messrs. Gallatin and Bayard withdrew from St. Petersburg in
January, 1814, leaving Mr. Adams in the discharge of his duties as resident Minister.

The proposition of the British Ministry to negotiate for peace, at London or Gottenburg was
accepted by the United States. Mr. Adams and Messrs. Bayard, Clay, Russell, and Gallatin, were
appointed Commissioners, and directed to proceed to Gottenburg for that purpose. Mr. Adams
received his instructions in April, 1814; and as soon as preparations for departure could be
made, took passage for Stockholm. After repeated delays, on account of the difficulties of
navigation at that early season in the northern seas, he arrived at that city on the 25th of
May. Learning there that the place for the meeting of the Commissioners had been changed to
Ghent, in Belgium, Mr. Adams proceeded to Gottenburg. From thence he embarked on board an American
sloop-of-war, which had conveyed Messrs. Clay and Russell from the United States, and landing
at Texel, proceeded immediately to Ghent, where he arrived on the 24th of June.

In the ensuing negotiation, Mr. Adams was placed at the head of the American Commissioners.
They were men of unsurpassed talents and skill, in whose hands neither the welfare nor the
honor of the United States could suffer. In conducting this negotiation, they exhibited an
ability, a tact, an understanding of international law, and a knowledge of the best interests
of their country, which attracted the favorable attention both of Europe and America. Their
"Notes" with the British Commissioners, exhibited a dignified firmness and manly moderation,
with a power of argument, and force of reasoning, which highly elevated their reputation, and
that of their country, in the estimation of European statesmen. The Marquis of Wellesley declared
in the British House of Lords, that, "in his opinion the American Commissioners had shown the
most astonishing superiority over the British, during the whole of the correspondence." Their
despatches to the Government at home, describing and explaining the progress of the negotiation
in its several stages, gave the highest satisfaction to the people of the United States. It
was declared in the public prints, that they sustained the honor of the Union as ably at Ghent
as the patriotism and bravery of its defenders had been established by its seamen on the ocean,
and its troops in their battles with "Wellington's Invincibles." A good share of these encomiums
of right belongs to Mr. Adams, who, from his knowledge of foreign affairs, and experience in
diplomacy, as well as acknowledged talents, took a leading part in the negotiations.

The American commissioners were treated with marks of highest respect, by the citizens of Ghent,
and the public authorities of that town. On the anniversary of the Academy of Sciences and
Fine Arts, at Ghent, they were unanimously elected members of the institution, and were invited
to attend and unite in the exercises of the occasion. An oration on the objects of the institution
was delivered. In the evening, a sumptuous banquet was served up to a numerous company. After
the removal of the cloth, among the toasts given, was the following, by the Intendant of Ghent:--

"Our distinguished guests and fellow-members, the American Ministers: May they succeed in making
an honorable peace, to secure the liberty and independence of their country."

This sentiment was received with immense applause. The band struck up "Hail Columbia," and
the company was filled with enthusiasm. It was some minutes before the tumult sufficiently
subsided to admit of a response. Mr. Adams then arose, and, in behalf of the American Legation,
returned thanks for the very flattering manner in which they had been treated by the municipality
of Ghent, and particularly for the unexpected honor conferred upon them by the Academy. After
making some pertinent remarks on the importance and usefulness of the Fine Arts, he concluded
by offering as a toast--"The Intendant of the city of Ghent."

The British Commissioners were Lord Gambier, Henry Goulburn, and Wm. Adams. The negotiations
opened dubiously. The demands of the British Ministers were at first of such a character, that
it was impossible to comply with them, with any regard to the honor or welfare of the United
States. They insisted that the line separating the United States from the Canadas, should run
on the southern borders of all the lakes from Ontario to Superior--that the American Government
should keep no armed force on these lakes, nor maintain any military posts on their borders,
while the British should have the privilege of establishing such posts wherever they thought
proper, on the southern shores of the lakes and connecting rivers, and maintaining a navy on
their waters--that a large part of the district of Maine should be relinquished and ceded to
England, to permit a direct route of communication between Halifax and Quebec--that the right
of search should be granted to British ships-of-war--together with many other terms equally
unacceptable.

The letters of the American Commissioners to the Government at home, in the early stages of
the proceedings, were couched in desponding tones. They gave it as their opinion that no terms
of peace could be agreed upon. But the demands of the English Plenipotentiaries were met in
a manner so decided, and reasons were offered for non-compliance so cogent and incontrovertible,
that they were compelled to recede, and come to terms of a more reasonable description. Moreover
the British nation was heartily sick of foreign wars, which plunged the Government into debt,
sacrificed the lives of its subjects, crippled their manufactories, and secured them, in fact,
nothing! At length, after a protracted negotiation of six months, articles of peace were signed
by the British and American Commissioners, on the 24th of December, 1814.

The announcement of this event, at Ghent, was in a manner somewhat peculiar. Mr. Todd, one
of the Secretaries of the American Commissioners, and son-in-law of President Madison, had
invited several gentlemen, Americans and others, to take refreshments with him on the 24th
of December. At noon, after having spent some time in pleasant conversation, the refreshments
entered, and Mr. Todd said,--"It is 12 o'clock. Well, gentlemen, I announce to you that peace
has been made and signed between America and England." In a few moments, Messrs. Gallatin,
Clay, Carroll and Hughes entered, and confirmed the annunciation. This intelligence was received
with a burst of joy by all present. The news soon spread through the town, and gave general
satisfaction to the citizens.

At Paris, the intelligence was hailed with acclamations. In the evening the theatres resounded
with cries of "God save the Americans."

In the United States the news of peace spread with the speed of the wind. Everywhere it excited
the most lively emotions of joy. Processions, orations, bonfires, illuminations, attested the
gratification of the people, and showed that, notwithstanding the general success which had
attended our arms, they viewed peace as one of the highest blessings a nation can enjoy.

Recognizing in this important event the hand of a wise and gracious overruling Providence,
the hearts of a great Christian nation turned in gratitude toward God. President Madison issued
the following proclamation for a day of thanksgiving:--

"The Senate and House of Representatives of the United States have, by a joint resolution,
signified their desire that a day may be recommended, to be observed by the people of the United
States with religious solemnity, as a day of thanksgiving and of devout acknowledgments to
Almighty God, for his great goodness, manifested in restoring to them the blessings of peace.

"No people ought to feel greater obligations to celebrate the goodness of the Great Disposer
of events, and of the destiny of nations, than the people of the United Slates. His kind providence
originally conducted them to one of the best portions of the dwelling place allowed for the
great family of the human race. He protected and cherished them under all the difficulties
and trials to which they were exposed in their early days. Under his fostering care, their
habits, their sentiments and their pursuits prepared them for a transition in due time to a
state of independence and self-government. In the arduous struggle by which it was attained,
they were distinguished by multiplied tokens of his benign interposition. During the interval
which succeeded, he reared them into the strength, and endowed them with the resources, which
have enabled them to assert their national rights, and to enhance their national character,
in another arduous conflict, which is now happily terminated by a peace and reconciliation
with those who have been our enemies. And to the same Divine Author of every good and perfect
gift we are indebted for all those privileges and advantages, religious as well as civil, which
are so richly enjoyed in this favored land.

"It is for blessings such as these, and more especially for the restoration of the blessings
of peace, that I now recommend that the second Thursday in April next, be set apart as a day
on which the people of every religious denomination may in their solemn assemblies unite their
hearts and their voices, in a free-will offering, to their Heavenly Benefactor, of their homage
of thanksgiving and their songs of praise."

Before leaving Ghent, the American Commissioners gave a public dinner to the British Ambassadors,
at which the Intendant of Ghent, and numerous staff officers of the Hanoverian service, were
present. Everything indicated that the most perfect reconciliation had taken place between
the two nations. Lord Gambier had arisen to give, as the first toast, "The United States of
North America," but he was prevented by the courtesy of Mr. Adams, who gave "His Majesty, the
King of England"--on which the music struck up "God save the King." Lord Gambier gave as the
second toast, "The United States of North America," and the music played "Hail Columbia." Count
H. Von Sheinhuyer presented as a toast--"The Pacificators of the States--May their union contribute
to the happiness of the Department which is confided to my government; and may their Excellencies
communicate to their Governments the lively interest which those under me take in their reconciliation."
Mr. Adams and Lord Gambier both begged the Intendant to certify to the city of Ghent the gratitude
of the Ministers, for the attention which the inhabitants had shown them during their residence
in their midst.

Having concluded their labors at Ghent by signing the treaty of peace, Mr. Adams, together
with Messrs. Albert Gallatin and Henry Clay, was directed to proceed to London, for the purpose
of entering into negotiations for a treaty of commerce with Great Britain. Before leaving the
continent, Mr. Adams visited Paris, where he witnessed the return of Napoleon from Elbe, and
his meteoric career during the Hundred Days. Here he was joined in March, 1815, by his family,
after a long and perilous journey from St. Petersburg.

On the 25th of May, Mr. Adams arrived in London and joined Messrs. Gallatin and Clay, who had
already entered upon the preliminaries of the proposed commercial convention with Great Britain.
In the mean time, Mr. Adams had received official notice of his appointment as Minister to
the Court of St. James. On the 3d of July, 1815, the convention for regulating the commercial
intercourse between the United States and Great Britain was concluded, and duly signed. It
was afterwards ratified by both Governments, and has formed the basis of commerce and trade
between the two countries, to the present time. At the conclusion of these negotiations, Messrs.
Gallatin and Clay returned to the United States, and Mr. Adams remained in London, in his capacity
as resident Minister.

Thus had the prediction of Washington been fulfilled. In "as short a time as could well be
expected," John Quincy Adams, as the well-merited reward of faithful services, had attained
to the head of the Diplomatic Corps of the United States. His career had been singularly successful;
and his elevation to the highest foreign stations received the general approbation of his countrymen.
His simple habits, his plain appearance, his untiring industry, his richly stored mind, his
unbending integrity, his general intercourse and correspondence with foreign courts and diplomatists
of the greatest distinction, all tended to elevate, in a high degree, the American character,
in the estimation of European nations.

The impression he made in the most eminent circles during his residence in London, as a statesman
of unsurpassed general information, and critical knowledge of the politics of the world, was
retained for years afterwards. Mr. Rush, who was subsequently Minister to Great Britain, in
an account of a dinner party at Lord Castlereagh's, notes a corroborating incident: "At table,
I had on my left the Saxon Minister, Baron Just. * * * * * * He inquired of me for Mr. Adams,
whom he had known well, and of whom he spoke highly. He said that he knew the politics of all
Europe." [Footnote: Rush's Residence at the Court of London.]

"It was while Mr. Adams was Minister of the United States in London, that it was my personal
good fortune to be admitted to his intimacy and friendship. Being then in London on private
business, and having some previous acquaintance with Mr. Adams, I found in his house an ever
kind welcome, and in his intercourse and conversation unfailing attraction and improvement.
Accustomed as he had been from earliest youth to the society of the most eminent persons in
Europe, alike in station and in ability, Mr. Adams never lost the entire simplicity of his
own habits and character. Under an exterior of, at times, almost repulsive coldness, dwelt
a heart as warm, sympathies as quick, and affections as overflowing, as ever animated any bosom.
His tastes, too, were all refined. Literature and art were familiar and dear to him, and hence
it was that his society was at once so agreeable and so improving. At his hospitable board,
I have listened to disquisitions from his lips on poetry, especially the dramas of Shakspeare,
music, painting, sculpture--of rare excellence, and untiring interest. The extent of his knowledge,
indeed, and its accuracy, in all branches, were not less remarkable than the complete command
which he appeared to possess over all his varied stores of learning and information. A critical
scholar, alike in the dead languages, in French, in German, in Italian, not less than in English--he
could draw at will from the wealth of all these tongues to illustrate any particular topic,
or to explain any apparent difficulty. There was no literary work of merit in any of these
languages, of which he could not render a satisfactory account; there was no fine painting
or statue, of which he did not know the details and the history; there was not even an opera,
or a celebrated musical composer, of which or of whom he could not point out the distinguishing
merits and the chief compositions. Yet he was a hard-working, assiduous man of business, in
his particular vocation, and a more regular, punctual, comprehensive, voluminous diplomatic
correspondence than his no country can probably boast of; and it is thought the more necessary
to note this fact, because sometimes an opinion prevails that graver pursuits must necessarily
exclude attention to what used to be called the "humanities" of education--those ornamental
and graceful acquirements, which, as Mr. Adams well proved, not only are not inconsistent with,
but greatly adorn, the weightier matters of the law and of diplomacy. I could dwell with much
satisfaction upon the memory and incidents of the days to which I am now adverting, but am
admonished, by the length to which these remarks have already extended, that I may not loiter."

James Madison, after serving his country eight years as President, in a most perilous period
of its history, retired to private life, followed by the respect and gratitude of the people
of the United States. He was succeeded by James Monroe, who was inaugurated on the 4th of March,
1817.

Mr. Monroe was a politician of great moderation.  It was his desire, on entering the presidency,
to heal the unhappy dissensions which had distracted the country from the commencement of its
government, and conciliate and unite the conflicting political parties. In forming his cabinet,
he consulted eminent individuals of different parties, in various sections of the Union, expressing
these views. Among others, he addressed Gen. Jackson, who, on account of his successful military
career, was then rising rapidly into public notice. In his reply the general remarked:--

"Everything depends on the selection of your ministry. In every selection, party and party
feeling should be avoided. Now is the time to exterminate that monster, called party spirit.
By selecting characters most conspicuous for their probity, virtue, capacity, and firmness,
without any regard to party, you will go far, if not entirely, to eradicate those feelings,
which on former occasions, threw so many obstacles in the way of government, and, perhaps,
have the pleasure and honor of uniting a people heretofore politically divided. The Chief Magistrate
of a great and powerful nation, should never indulge in party feelings."

Admirable advice! Sentiments worthy an exalted American statesman! The President of a vast
Republic, should indeed know nothing of the interest of party in contradistinction to the interest
of the whole people; and should exercise his power, his patronage, and his influence, not to
strengthen factions, and promote the designs of political demagogues, but to develop and nourish
internal resources, the only sinews of national prosperity, and diffuse abroad sentiments of
true patriotism, liberality, and philanthropy. No suggestions more admirable could have been
made by Gen. Jackson, and none could have been more worthy the consideration of Mr. Monroe
and his successors in the presidential chair.

In carrying out his plans of conciliation, President Monroe selected John Quincy Adams for
the responsible post of Secretary of State. Mr. Adams had never been an active partizan. In
his career as Senator, both in Massachusetts and in Washington, during Mr. Jefferson's administration,
he had satisfactorily demonstrated his ability to rise above party considerations, in the discharge
of great and important duties. And his long absence from the country had kept him free from
personal, party, and sectional bias, and peculiarly fitted him to take the first station in
the cabinet of a President aiming to unite his countrymen in fraternal bonds of political amity.

Referring to this appointment, Mr. Monroe wrote Gen. Jackson as follows, under date of March
1, 1817:--"I shall take a person for the Department of State from the eastward; and Mr. Adams,
by long service in our diplomatic concerns appearing to be entitled to the preference, supported
by his acknowledged abilities and integrity, his nomination will go to the Senate." Gen. Jackson,
in his reply, remarks:--"I have no hesitation in saying you have made the best selection to
fill the Department of State that could be made. Mr. Adams, in the hour of difficulty, will
be an able helpmate, and I am convinced his appointment will afford general satisfaction."
This prediction was well founded. The consummate ability exhibited by Mr. Adams in foreign
negotiations had elevated him to a high position in the estimation of his countrymen. His selection
for the State Department was received with very general satisfaction throughout the Union.

On receiving notice of his appointment to this responsible office, Mr. Adams, with his family,
embarked for the United States, on board the packet-ship Washington, and landed in New York
on the 6th of August, 1817.

A few days after his arrival, a public dinner was given Mr. Adams, in Tammany Hall, New York.
The room was elegantly decorated. In the centre was a handsome circle of oak leaves, roses,
and flags--the whole representing, with much effect, our happy Union--and from the centre of
which, as from her native woods, appeared our eagle, bearing in her beak this impressive scroll:--

  "Columbia, great Republic, thou art blest,
  While Empires droop, and Monarchs sink to rest."

Gov. De Witt Clinton, the Mayor of New York, and about two hundred citizens of the highest
respectability, sat down to the table. Among other speeches made on the occasion, was the following
from an English gentleman, a Mr. Fearon, of London:--

"As several gentlemen have volunteered songs, I would beg leave to offer a sentiment, which
I am sure will meet the hearty concurrence of all present. But, previous to which, I desire
to express the high satisfaction which this day's entertainment has afforded me. Though a native
of Great Britain, and but a few days in the United States, I am for the first time in my life
in a free country, surrounded by free men; and when I look at the inscription which decorates
your eagle, I rejoice that I have been destined to see this day.  A great number of the enlightened
portion of my countrymen advocate your cause--admire your principles. And though we have, unfortunately,
been engaged in a war, I trust the result has taught wisdom to both parties. In your political
institutions you have set a noble example, which, if followed throughout the world, will rescue
mankind from the dominion of those tyrants who jeer at the destruction which they produce--

  'Like the moonbeams on the blasted heath,
  Mocking its desolation.'

"Gentlemen, in conclusion, I beg to express the delight which I feel, and propose to you as
a toast--May the United States be an example to the world; and may civil and religious liberty
cover the earth, as the waters do the channels of the deep."

A public dinner was also given Mr. Adams on his arrival in Boston. Mr. Gray presided, and Messrs.
Otis, Blake, and Mason, acted as Vice Presidents. His father, the venerable ex-President John
Adams, was present as a guest. Among other toasts given on the occasion, were the following:--

"The United States.--May our public officers, abroad and at home, continue to be distinguished
for integrity, talents, and patriotism."

"The Commissioners at Ghent.--The negotiations for peace have been declared, in the British
House of Lords, to wear the stamp of American superiority."

"American Manufactures.--A sure and necessary object for the security of American independence."

This occasion must have been one of great interest to the patriarch John Adams, then more than
four-score years of age. Nearly forty years before, he had said of his son:--"He behaves like
a man!" That son, in the prime of his days, had recently been called from foreign service,
where he had obtained accumulated honors, to fill the highest station in the gift of the Executive
of his country. The people of two continents would now unite with the venerable sage, in repeating
the declaration--"He behaves like a man!" The patriarch stood upon the verge of the grave.
But as the sun of his existence was gently and calmly sinking beneath the horizon, lo! its
beams were reflected in their pristine brightness by another orb, born from its bosom, which
was steadily ascending to the zenith of earthly fame!

John Quincy Adams took up his residence at Washington, and entered upon his duties as Secretary
of State, in September, 1817.

During the eight years of President Monroe's administration, Mr. Adams discharged the duties
of the state department, with a fidelity and success which received not only the unqualified
approbation of the President, but of the whole country. To him that office was no sinecure.
His labors were incessant. He spared no pains to qualify himself to discuss, with consummate
skill, whatever topics legitimately claimed his attention. The President, the cabinet, the
people, imposed implicit trust in his ability to promote the interests of the nation in all
matters of diplomacy, and confided unreservedly in his pure American feelings and love of country.
Perfectly familiar as he was with the political condition of the world, Mr. Monroe entrusted
him, without hesitation, with the management of the foreign policy of the Government, during
his administration.

In the autumn of 1817, the Seminole and a portion of the Creek Indians commenced depredations
on the frontiers of Georgia and Alabama. Troops were sent to reduce them, under Gen. Gaines.
His force being too weak to bring them to subjection, Gen. Jackson was ordered to take the
field with a more numerous army, with which he overran the Indian country. Believing it necessary
to enter Florida, then a Spanish territory, for the more effectual subjugation of the Indians,
he did not hesitate to pursue them thither. The Spanish authorities protested against the invasion
of their domains, and offered some opposition. Gen. Jackson persisted, and in the result, took
possession of St. Marks and Pensacola, and sent the Spanish authorities and troops to Havana.

Among the prisoners taken in this expedition, were a Scotchman and an Englishman, named Arbuthnot
and Ambrister. They were British subjects, but were charged with supplying the Indians with
arms and munitions of war; stirring them up against the whites, and acting as spies. On these
charges they were tried by a court martial, of which Gen. Gaines was President--found guilty--condemned
to death, and executed on the 27th of April, 1818.

These transactions of Gen. Jackson caused great excitement throughout the United States, and
subjected him to no little blame. The subject excited much debate in Congress. A resolution
censuring him for his summary proceedings was introduced, but voted down by a large majority.
In Mr. Monroe's cabinet, there was a strong feeling against Gen. Jackson. The President, and
all the members, with a single exception, were disposed to hold him responsible for having
transcended his orders. Hon. Wm. H. Crawford, who was in Mr. Monroe's cabinet at that time,
in a letter to Mr. Forsyth, says:--"Mr. Calhoun's proposition in the cabinet was, that Gen.
Jackson should be punished in some form, or reprimanded in some form."

Mr. Adams alone vindicated Gen. Jackson. He insisted that inasmuch as the Government had ordered
him to pursue the enemy into Florida, if necessary, they were responsible for the acts of the
American general, in the exercise of the discretionary power with which he had been clothed.
Several cabinet meetings were held on the subject, in July, 1818, in which the whole matter
was thoroughly discussed. Mr. Adams succeeded at length in bringing the President into the
adoption of his views, which Mr. Monroe substantially embodied in his next annual message to
Congress.

The intelligence of the execution of Arbuthnot and Ambrister, excited the highest indignation
in England. The people viewed it as a violation of the rights of British subjects, and an insult
to their nation, and were ready to rush to war.  Lord Castlereagh declared to Mr. Rush, the
American Minister, that had the English cabinet but held up a finger, war would have been declared
against the United States. But so able and convincing were the arguments which Mr. Adams directed
Mr. Rush to lay before the British Ministers, in defence of the proceedings of Gen. Jackson,
that they became convinced there was no just cause of war between the two countries, and exerted
their influence against any movement in that direction.

On the 22nd of February, 1819, a treaty was concluded at Washington, between the United States
and Spain, by which East and West Florida, with the adjacent islands, were ceded to the Union.
The negotiations which resulted in the consummation of the treaty, were conducted by Mr. Adams
and Luis de Onis the Spanish Ambassador. This treaty was very advantageous to the United States.
It brought to a close a controversy with Spain, of many years' standing, which had defied all
the exertions of former administrations to adjust, and placed our relations with that country
on the most amicable footing. In effecting this reconciliation, Mr. Adams deserved and received
a high share of credit.

The recognition of the independence of the Spanish South American Provinces, by the Government
of the United States, took place during Mr. Adams's administration of the State Department.
The honor of first proposing this recognition, in the Congress of the United States, and of
advocating it with unsurpassed eloquence and zeal, belongs to the patriotic Henry Clay. Mainly
by his influence, the House of Representatives, in 1820, passed the following resolutions:--

"Resolved, That the House of Representatives participate with the people of the United States,
in the deep interest which they feel for the success of the Spanish Provinces of South America,
which are struggling to establish their liberty and independence.

"Resolved, That this House will give its constitutional support to the President of the United
States, whenever he may deem it expedient to recognize the sovereignty and independence of
any of said Provinces."

Mr. Adams at first hesitated on this subject. Not that he was opposed to the diffusion of the
blessings of freedom to the oppressed. No man was a more ardent lover of liberty, or was more
anxious that its institutions should be established throughout the earth, at the earliest practicable
moment. But he had many and serious doubts whether the people of the South American Provinces
were capable of originating and maintaining an enlightened self-government.  There was a lack
of general intelligence among the people--a want of an enlarged and enlightened understanding
of the principles of rational freedom--which led him to apprehend that their attempts at self-government
would for a long season, at least, result in the reign of faction and anarchy, rather than
true republican principles. The subsequent history of these countries--the divisions and contentions,
the revolutions and counter-revolutions, which have rent them asunder, and deluged them in
blood--clearly show that Mr. Adams but exercised a far-seeing intelligence in entertaining
these doubts. Nevertheless, as they had succeeded in throwing off the Spanish yoke, and had,
in fact, achieved their independence, Mr. Adams would not throw any impediment in their way.
Trusting that his fears as to their ability for self-government might be groundless, he gave
his influence to the recognizing of their independence by the United States.

In 1821 the Greek revolution broke out. The people of that classic land, after enduring ages
of the most brutal and humiliating oppression from the Turks, nobly resolved to break the chains
of the Ottoman power, or perish in the attempt. The war was long, and sanguinary, but finally
resulted in the emancipation of Greece, and the establishment of its independence as a nation.

The inhabitants of the United States could not witness such a struggle with indifference. A
spirit of sympathy ran like electricity throughout the land. Public meetings were held in nearly
every populous town in the Union, in which resolutions, encouraging the Greeks in their struggle,
were passed, and contributions taken up to aid them. Money, clothing, provisions, arms, were
collected in immense quantities and shipped to Greece. In churches, colleges, academies and
schools--at the theatres, museums, and other places of amusement and public resort--aid was
freely and generously given in behalf of the struggling patriots. Many citizens of the United
States, when the first blast of the trumpet of liberty rang along the Ionian seas, and through
the Peloponnesus, sped across the ocean, and, throwing themselves into the midst of the Grecian
hosts, contended heroically for their emancipation. Among these volunteers, was Col. J. P.
Miller, of Vermont, who not only gallantly fought in the battles of Greece, but was greatly
serviceable in conveying supplies from the United States to that struggling people.

The deep sympathy which prevailed in every section of the Union, was soon felt in Congress.
Many public men were anxious that the Government should take some important and decisive step,
even to hostilities, in behalf of Greece. Eloquent speeches were delivered in the House of
Representatives on the exciting topic. Mr. Clay electrified the country with his stirring appeals
in behalf of the land in which was established the first republic on earth. Mr. Webster submitted
the following resolution to the House of Representatives:--

"Resolved, That provision ought to be made by law, for defraying the expense incident to the
appointment of an Agent, or Commissioner, to Greece, whenever the President shall deem it expedient
to make such appointment."

In support of this resolution, Mr. Webster made a most eloquent speech, of which the following
is the conclusion:--

"Mr. Chairman--There are some things which, to be well done, must be promptly done. If we even
determine to do the thing that is now proposed, we may do it too late Sir, I am not of those
who are for withholding aid when it is most urgently needed, and when the stress is past, and
the aid no longer necessary, overwhelming the sufferers with caresses. I will not stand by
and see my fellow-man drowning, without stretching out a hand to help him, till he has, by
his own efforts and presence of mind, reached the shore in safety, and then encumber him with
aid. With suffering Greece, now is the crisis of her fate--her great, it may be her last struggle.
Sir, while we sit here deliberating, her destiny may be decided. The Greeks, contending with
ruthless oppressors, turn their eyes to us, and invoke us, by their ancestors, by their slaughtered
wives and children, by their own blood poured out like water, by the hecatombs of dead they
have heaped up, as it were, to heaven; they invoke, they implore from us some cheering sound,
some look of sympathy, some token of compassionate regard. They look to us as the great Republic
of the earth--and they ask us, by our common faith, whether we can forget that they are struggling,
as we once struggled, for what we now so happily enjoy? I cannot say, sir, they will succeed;
that rests with heaven. But, for myself, sir, if I should to-morrow hear that they have failed--that
their last phalanx had sunk beneath the Turkish cimetar, that the flames of their last city
had sunk in its ashes, and that nought remained but the wide, melancholy waste where Greece
once was--I should still reflect, with the most heartfelt satisfaction, that I have asked you,
in the name of seven millions of freemen, that you would give them, at least, the cheering
of one friendly voice."

The committee having in charge the raising of a fund for the assistance of the Greeks, in New
York, addressed a circular to the venerable ex-President John Adams, to which they received
the following reply:--

                                               "Quincy, Dec. 29, 1823.
"GENTLEMEN:--I have received your circular of the 12th inst., and I thank
you for the honor you have done me in addressing it to me. Be assured my
heart beats in unison with yours, and with those of your constituents, and
I presume with all the really civilized part of mankind, in sympathy with
the Greeks, suffering, as they are, in the great cause of liberty and
humanity. The gentlemen of Boston have taken measures to procure a general
subscription in their favor, through the State, and I shall contribute my
mite with great pleasure. In the meantime I wish you, and all other
gentlemen engaged in the virtuous work, all the success you or they can
wish; for I believe no effort in favor of virtue will be ultimately lost.

"I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your very humble Servant,
                                                 "JOHN ADAMS."

The sympathies of John Quincy Adams were ardently enlisted in behalf of the Greek Revolution.
But with a prudence and wisdom which characterized all his acts, he threw his influence against
any direct interference on the part of the Government of the United States. It would have been
a departure from that neutral policy, in regard to European conflicts, on which the country
had acted from the commencement of our national existence, alike injurious and dangerous. He
knew if we once entered into these wars, on any pretext whatever, a door would be opened for
foreign entanglements and endless conflicts, which would result in standing armies, immense
national debts, and the long trail of evils of which they are the prolific source.

When an application was made to Mr. Adams, as Secretary of State, through Mr. Rush, our Minister
at London, by an Agent of Greece, for aid from the United States, he was compelled, on principles
above stated, to withhold the required assistance. The correspondence which grew out of this
application is sufficiently interesting to find a place in these pages:--

"Andreas Luriottis, Envoy of the Provisional Government of Greece, to the Hon. John Quincy
Adams, Secretary of State to the United States of America.

SIR:--I feel no slight emotion, while, in behalf of Greece, my country, struggling for independence
and liberty, I address myself to the United States of America.

"The independence for which we combat, you have achieved. The liberty to which we look, with
anxious solicitude, you have obtained, and consolidated in peace and in glory.

"Yet Greece, old Greece, the seat of early civilization and freedom, stretches out her hands,
imploringly, to a land which sprung into being, as it were, ages after her own lustre had been
extinguished! and ventures to hope that the youngest and most vigorous sons of liberty, will
regard, with no common sympathy, the efforts of the descendants of the heir and the elder born,
whose precepts and whose example have served--though insufficient, hitherto, for our complete
regeneration--to regenerate half a world.

"I know, Sir, that the sympathies of the generous people of the United States have been extensively
directed towards us; and since I have reached this country, an interview with their Minister,
Mr. Rush, has served to convince me more strongly, how great their claim is on our gratitude
and our affection. May I hope that some means may be found to communicate these our feelings,
of which I am so proud to be the organ? We will still venture to rely on their friendship.
We would look to their individual, if not to their national, co-operation. Every, the slightest,
assistance under present circumstances, will aid the progress of the great work of liberty;
and if, standing, as we have stood, alone and unsupported, with everything opposed to us, and
nothing to encourage us but patriotism, enthusiasm, and sometimes even despair: if thus we
have gone forward, liberating our provinces, one after another, and subduing every force which
has been directed against us, what may we not do with the assistance for which we venture to
appeal to the generous and the free?

"Precipitated by circumstances into that struggle for independence, which, ever since the domination
of our cruel and reckless tyrants, had never ceased to be the object of our vows and prayers,
we have, by the blessing of God, freed a considerable part of Greece from the ruthless invaders.
The Peloponnesus, Etolia, Carmania, Attica, Phocida, Boetia, and the Islands of the Archipelago
and Candia, are nearly free. The armies and the fleets which have been sent against us, have
been subdued by the valor of our troops and our marine. Meanwhile we have organized a government,
founded upon popular suffrages: and you will probably have seen how closely our organic law
assimilates to that constitution under which your nation so happily and so securely lives.

"I have been sent hither by the government of Greece, to obtain assistance in our determined
enterprize, on which we, like you, have staked our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor:
and I believe my journey has not been wholly without success. I should have been wanting to
my duty had I not addressed you, supplicating the earliest display of your amiable purposes;
entreating that diplomatic relations may be established between us; communicating the most
earnest desire of my government that we may be allowed to call you allies as well as friends;
and stating that we shall rejoice to enter upon discussions which may lead to immediate and
advantageous treaties, and to receive diplomatic agents without delay. Both at Madrid and at
Lisbon, I have been received with great kindness by the American Representative, and am pleased
to record the expression of my gratitude.

"Though, fortunately, you are so far removed, and raised so much above the
narrow politics of Europe as to be little influenced by their
vicissitudes, I venture to believe that Mr. Rush will explain to you the
changes which have taken place, and are still in action around us, in our
favor. And I conclude, rejoicing in the hope that North America and Greece
may be united in the bonds of long-enduring, and unbroken concord: and
have the honor to be, with every sentiment of respect, your obedient
humble servant.
                                                    "AND. LURIOTTIS.
  'London, February 20, 1823."

MR. ADAMS TO MR. RUSH.

                                     "Department of State,
                                      Washington, 18th August, 1823.
"SIR:--I have the honor of inclosing, herewith, an answer to the letter
from Mr. Luriottis, the Agent of the Greeks addressed to me, and a copy
of which was transmitted with your dispatch No. 295.

"If, upon the receipt of this letter, Mr. Luriottis should still be in London, it will be desirable
that you should deliver it to him in person, accompanied with such remarks and explanations
as may satisfy him, and those whom he represents, that, in declining the proposal of giving
active aid to the cause of Grecian emancipation, the Executive Government of the United States
has been governed not by its inclinations, or a sentiment of indifference to the cause, but
by its constitutional duties, clear and unequivocal.

"The United States could give assistance to the Greeks, only by the application of some portion
of their public forces or of their public revenue in their favor, which would constitute them
in a state of war with the Ottoman Porte, and perhaps with all the Barbary powers. To make
this disposal either of force or of treasure, you are aware is, by our constitution, not within
the competency of the Executive. It could be determined only by an act of Congress, which would
assuredly not be adopted, should it even be recommended by the Executive.

"The policy of the United States, with reference to foreign nations, has always been founded
upon the moral principle of natural law--Peace with all mankind. From whatever cause war between
other nations, whether foreign or domestic, has arisen, the unvarying law of the United States
has been peace with both belligerents. From the first war of the French Revolution, to the
recent invasion of Spain, there has been a succession of wars, national and civil, in almost
everyone of which one of the parties was contending for liberty or independence. In the first
French revolutionary war, a strong impulse of feeling urged the people of the United States
to take side with the party which, at its commencement, was contending, apparently, at least,
for both. Had the policy of the United States not been essentially pacific, a stronger case
to claim their interference could scarcely have been presented. They nevertheless declared
themselves neutral, and the principle, then deliberately settled, has been invariably adhered
to ever since.

"With regard to the recognition of sovereign States, and the establishment with them of a diplomatic
intercourse, the experience of the last thirty years has served also to ascertain the limits
proper for the application of principles in which every nation must exercise some latitude
of discretion. Precluded by their neutral position from interfering in the question of right,
the United States have recognized the fact of foreign sovereignty only when it was undisputed,
or disputed without any rational prospect of success. In this manner the successive changes
of government in many of the European states, and the revolutionary governments of South America,
have been acknowledged. The condition of the Greeks is not yet such as will admit of their
recognition, upon these principles.

"Yet, as we cherish the most friendly feelings towards them, and are sincerely disposed to
render them any service which may be compatible with our neutrality, it will give us pleasure
to learn, from time to time, the actual state of their cause, political and military. Should
Mr. Luriottis be enabled and disposed to furnish this information, it may always be communicated
through you, and will be received with satisfaction here. The public accounts from that quarter
have been of late very scanty, and we shall be glad to obtain any authentic particulars, which
may come to your knowledge from this, or through any other channel.

"I am with great respect, Sir, your very humble and obedient servant,
                                                   JOHN QUINCY ADAMS."

MR. ADAMS TO MR. LURIOTTIS.

                                    "Department of State,
                                     Washington, 18th August, 1823.
"Sir: A copy of the letter which you did me the honor of addressing to me,
on the 20th of February last, has been transmitted to me by the Minister
of the United States at London, and has received the deliberate
consideration of the President of the United States.

"The sentiments with which he has witnessed the struggles of your countrymen for their national
emancipation and independence, had been made manifest to the world in a public message to the
Congress of the United States. They are cordially felt by the people of this Union; who, sympathizing
with the cause of freedom and independence wherever its standard is unfurled, behold with peculiar
interest the display of Grecian energy in defence of Grecian liberties, and the association
of heroic exertions, at the present time, with the proudest glories of former ages, in the
land of Epaminondas and Philopoemon.

"But while cheering with their best wishes the cause of the Greeks, the United States are forbidden,
by the duties of their situation, from taking part in the war, to which their relation is that
of neutrality. At peace themselves with all the world, their established policy, and the obligations
of the laws of nations, preclude them from becoming voluntary auxiliaries to a cause which
would involve them in war.

"If in the progress of events the Greeks should be enabled to establish and organize themselves
as an independent nation, the United States will be among the first to welcome them, in that
capacity, into the general family; to establish diplomatic and commercial relations with them,
suited to the mutual interests of the two countries; and to recognize, with special satisfaction,
their constituted state in the character of a sister Republic.

"I have the honor to be, with distinguished consideration, Sir, your very
humble and obedient servant,
                                                   "JOHN QUINCY ADAMS."

The sentiments, in regard to the foreign policy of our Government, which Mr. Adams embodies
in this correspondence, he had previously expressed in an oration delivered in the city of
Washington, on the 4th of July, 1821, of which the following is an extract:--

"America, in the assembly of nations, since her admission among them, has invariably, though
often fruitlessly, held forth to them the hand of honest friendship, of equal freedom, of generous
reciprocity; she has uniformly spoken among them, though often to heedless, and often to disdainful
ears, the language of equal liberty, of equal justice, and equal rights; she has, in the lapse
of nearly half a century, without a single exception, respected the independence of other nations
while asserting and maintaining her own; she has abstained from interference in the concerns
of others, even when the conflict has been for principles to which she clings as to the last
vital drop that visits the heart. She has seen that probably for centuries to come all the
contests of that Aceldama, the European world, will be contests of inveterate power and emerging
right. Wherever the standard of freedom and independence has been or shall be unfurled, there
will her heart, her benedictions, and her prayers be. But she goes not abroad in search of
monsters to destroy. She is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all--she is
the champion and vindicator only of her own. She will recommend the general cause, by the countenance
of her voice, and the benignant sympathy of her example:--she well knows that by once enlisting
under other banners than her own, were they even the banners of foreign independence, she would
involve herself beyond the power of extrication, in all the wars of interest and intrigue,
of individual avarice, envy and ambition, which assume the colors, and usurp the standard of
freedom. The fundamental maxims of her policy would insensibly change from liberty to force;
the frontlet on her brow would no longer beam with the ineffable splendor of freedom and independence;
but in its stead would soon be substituted an imperial diadem, flashing in false and tarnished
lustre, the murky radiance of dominion and power. She might become the dictatress of the world:
she would be no longer the ruler of her own spirit."

During Mr. Adams's occupancy of the state department, efforts were made by the American Government
to abolish the African slave trade, and procure its denunciation as piracy, by the civilized world.

In compliance with this resolution, Mr. Adams, as Secretary of State, issued directions to
the American Ministers in Spain, Russia, the Netherlands, Colombia, and Buenos Ayres, to enter
into negotiations with the Governments of these countries on this subject. Mr. Adams also maintained
an able correspondence with the Hon. Stratford Canning, the British Minister at Washington,
in relation to the basis on which a treaty should be formed with Great Britain for the suppression
of the foreign slave trade.

Mr. Rush, the American Minister at the Court of St. James, was directed to enter upon negotiations
in London, to this end. His instructions were written by Mr. Adams, with his usual sound judgment
and enlarged views of national policy, and the claims of humanity. The convention was in due
time completed, and signed by the Plenipotentiaries of both nations, on the 13th of March.
1824, and was sent by Mr. Rush to Washington for ratification. Mr. Monroe and Mr. Adams were
ready to give it their sanction; but the Senate insisted on striking out a provision in the
first article. The article commenced as follows:--

"The commanders and commissioned officers of each of the two high contracting parties, duly
authorized, under the regulations and instructions of their respective Governments, to cruise
on the coasts of Africa, of America, and of the West Indies, for the suppression of the slave
trade, shall be empowered, under the conditions, limitations, and restrictions hereinafter
specified," &c.

The Senate struck out the words "of America." This amendment the British Government would not
assent to. Thus the negotiation on the slave trade, so near a consummation, fell to the ground.

Mr. Monroe's administration closed on the 3rd of March, 1825. It was a period of uninterrupted
prosperity to the country. Our foreign commerce, recovering from the paralysis caused by the
embargo, the non-intercourse act, and the war, spread forth its wings and whitened every sea
and ocean on the globe. The domestic condition of the Union was thriving beyond the precedent
of many former years. Improvements in agriculture were developed; domestic manufactures received
a fair protection and encouragement; internal improvements, gaining more and more the attention
and confidence of the people, had been prosecuted to the evident benefit of all branches of
business and enterprize.

Another characteristic of the administration of Mr. Monroe is worthy of note. So judiciously
and patriotically had he exercised the powers entrusted to him, that he disarmed opposition.
Divisions, jealousies and contentions were destroyed, and a thorough fusion of all political
parties took place. At his re-election for the second term of the presidency, there was no
opposing candidate. There was but one party, and that was the great party of the American people.
His election was unanimous.

In all these measures, Mr. Adams was the coadjutor and confidential adviser of Mr. Monroe.
It is no derogation from the well-merited reputation of the latter to say, that many of the
most striking and praiseworthy features of his administration were enstamped upon it by the
labor and influence of the former. His success in maturing and carrying into execution his
most popular measures must be attributed, in no small extent, to the ability and faithfulness
of his eminent Secretary of State. And the historian may truly record that to John Quincy Adams,
in an eminent degree, belongs a portion of the honor and credit which have been so generally
accorded to the administration of James Monroe.

James Monroe was the last of the illustrious line of Presidents whose claims to that eminent
station dated back to the revolution. A grateful people had conferred the highest honors in
their gift upon the most conspicuous of those patriots who had faithfully served them in that
perilous struggle, and aided in constructing and consolidating the union of these States. This
debt punctually and honorably discharged, they looked to another generation, possessing claims
of a different description, for servants to elevate to the dignity of the presidential chair.

In the midst of a large class of public men who had in the mean time become conspicuous for
talents and services of various descriptions, it is no matter of surprise that the people of
the United States should entertain a diversity of opinions in regard to the most suitable individual
to fill a station which had hitherto been occupied by men whose virtues and whose patriotism
had shed the brightest lustre on the American name and character throughout the world. Candidates
for the presidency were nominated in various sections of the Union. The eastern States turned
their eyes instinctively towards JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, as one, among all the eminent competitors,
the most fitted, by character and services, for the office of President of the United States.
The members of the Legislature of Maine resolved--

"That the splendid talents and incorruptible integrity of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, his republican
habits and principles, distinguished public services, and extensive knowledge of, and devoted
attachment to, the vital interests of the country, justly entitle him to the first honors in
the gift of an enlightened and grateful people."

The republican members of the Massachusetts Legislature adopted the following resolutions:--

"Resolved, That the ability, experience, integrity and patriotism of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS; his
manly efforts to defend the principles of that government under which, in God's providence,
we hope to die; his unshaken fortitude and resolution in all political exigencies; his long,
faithful, and valuable services, under the patronage of all the Presidents of the United States,
present him to the people of this nation, as a man eminently qualified to subserve the best
interests of his country, and as a statesman without reproach.

"Resolved, That a man who has given such continued and indubitable pledges of his patriotism
and capacity, may be safely placed at the head of this nation. Every impulse of his heart,
and every dictate of his mind, must unite promptly in the support of the interests, the honor,
and the liberty of his country.

"Resolved, That JOHN QUINCY ADAMS is hereby recommended by us to the people of the United States,
as the most suitable candidate for the office of President, at the approaching election."

A meeting of the citizens of Rhode Island passed the following among other resolutions:--

"Resolved, That, although we duly acknowledge the talents and public services of all the candidates
for the presidency, we have the fullest confidence in the acknowledged ability, integrity and
experience of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, the accomplished scholar, the true republican, the enlightened
statesman, and the honest man; and we are desirous that his merits should be rewarded with
the first office in the gift of the people of the United States--that his future services may
continue unto us those blessings which, under the present administration of the General Government,
we have so abundantly enjoyed."

These were high encomiums. But who among the American people, now that the patriot has departed
from earth, can survey his life, his character, and his services, and not acknowledge they
were justly and richly deserved? Similar resolutions were passed in all the eastern and many
of the northern States.

The west brought forward HENRY CLAY, one of the most popular orators and eminent statesman
of the day. GEN. JACKSON, who had earned a splendid military reputation, was nominated in the
southwest, and WM. H. CRAWFORD was selected as the candidate representing the southern portion
of the confederacy. These were all men of eminence and of acknowledged talents. They were worthy
competitors for the highest honors of the Republic.

The friends of Mr. Adams rested his claims for the presidency on no factitious qualities. They
urged that his characteristics were such as to commend him to the confidence of every true
republican and well-wisher of his country. While his attainments were not of the showy and
popular cast possessed by many public men, they yet were of that solid, practical and valuable
description which must ever receive the sanction of intelligent and reflecting minds.

The qualifications on which his supporters depended, and to which they called the attention
of the American people, as reasons for elevating him to the head of the General Government,
may be summarily enumerated as follows:--1. The purity of his private character--the simplicity
of his personal habits--his unbending integrity and uprightness, even beyond suspicion. 2.
His commanding talents, and his acquirements both as a scholar and a statesman. 3. His love
of country--his truly American feelings, in all that concerned the welfare and honor of the
United States. 4. His long experience in public affairs, especially his familiarity with our
foreign relations, and his perfect knowledge of the institutions, the internal condition and
policy of European nations. 5. His advocacy of protection to domestic manufactures, and of
a judicious system of internal improvements.

In regard to internal improvements by the General Government, there was a difference of opinion
between Mr. Adams and President Monroe. The latter was strongly impressed with the beneficial
tendency of a well-digested system of internal improvements; but he believed the constitution
conferred no power on Congress to make appropriations for such a purpose. It was in this view
of the subject that he vetoed a bill which assumed the right to adopt and execute such a system,
passed by Congress during the session of 1820-21. But anxious that internal improvements, confined
to great national purposes, and with proper limitations, should be prosecuted, he suggested
that an amendment of the constitution to that effect should be recommended to the several States.

Mr. Adams, however, had no doubts that Congress already possessed a constitutional power to
prosecute such internal improvements as were of a national character, and calculated to benefit
the Union, and to levy duties for the protection of domestic manufactures. During his entire
political career he had deemed these to be two great points toward which the American Government
and people should turn their especial attention; and he ever gave them his faithful advocacy
and support. With consummate wisdom, he foresaw that the more completely our internal resources
were developed, and the less dependent we were on foreign powers, the greater would be our
public and private prosperity. He insisted that by an adequate protection of domestic manufactures,
there would be an increased demand for our raw materials at home, and thus the several productive
and manufacturing sections of the Republic would realize the benefits of a dependence on each
other, and the Union would be consolidated and perpetuated for ages to come.

While a candidate for the presidency, Mr. Adams received a letter inquiring his views on the
subject of internal improvement. The following is an extract from his reply:--

"On the 23rd of Feb., 1807, I offered, in the Senate of the United States, of which I was then
a member, the first resolution, as I believe, that ever was presented to Congress, contemplating
a general system of internal improvement. I thought that Congress possessed the power of appropriating
money to such improvement, and of authorizing the works necessary for making it--subject always
to the territorial rights of the several States in or through which the improvement is to be
made, to be secured by the consent of their Legislatures, and to proprietary rights of individuals,
to be purchased or indemnified. I still hold the same opinions; and, although highly respecting
the purity of intention of those who object, on constitutional grounds, to the exercise of
this power, it is with heartfelt satisfaction that I perceive those objections gradually yielding
to the paramount influence of the general welfare. Already have appropriations of money to
great objects of internal improvement been freely made; and I hope we shall both live to see
the day, when the only question of our statesmen and patriots, concerning the authority of
Congress to improve, by public works essentially beneficent, and beyond the means of less than
national resources, the condition of our common country, will be how it ever could have been
doubted."

On another occasion, Mr. Adams expressed himself on the subject of internal improvements in
the following manner:--

"The question of the power of Congress to authorize the making of internal improvements, is,
in other words, a question whether the people of this Union, in forming their common social
compact, as avowedly for the purpose of promoting their general welfare, have performed their
work in a manner so ineffably stupid as to deny themselves the means of bettering their own
condition. I have too much respect for the intellect of my country to believe it. The first
object of human association is the improvement of the condition of the associated. Roads and
canals are among the most essential means of improving the condition of nations. And a people
which should deliberately, by the organization of its authorized power, deprive itself of the
faculty of multiplying its own blessings, would be as wise as a creator who should undertake
to constitute a human being without a heart."

In addition to other claims, the friends of Mr. Adams urged his elevation to the presidency
on the ground of locality. During the thirty-six years which had passed since the adoption
of the constitution, the General Government had been administered but four years by a northern
President. It was insisted with much force that the southern portion of the Republic had thus
far exerted a disproportionate influence in the executive department of the nation. While the
north, although far the most populous, and contributing much the largest portion of the means
for defraying the national expenditures, would not claim to monopolize an undue degree of power
in controlling the measures of administration, yet it could justly insist that its demands
for an equitable share of influence should be heeded. These suggestions unquestionably possessed
a weight in the minds of the people, favorable to the prospects of Mr. Adams.

The Presidential campaign of 1824, was more spirited and exciting than any that had taken place
since the first election of Mr. Jefferson. It was novel in the number of candidates presented
for the suffrages of the people, and was conducted with great zeal and vigor by the friends
of the different aspirants. Strictly speaking, it could not be called a party contest. Mr.
Monroe's wise and prudent administration had obliterated party lines, and left a very general
unanimity of sentiment on political principles and measures, throughout the Union. The various
candidates-- Adams, Jackson, Clay, Crawford--all subscribed, substantially, to the same political
creed, and entertained similar views as to the principles on which the General Government should
be administered. The struggle was a personal and sectional one, more than of a party nature.

It had long been foreseen that a choice of President would not be effected by the people. The
result verified this prediction. Of two hundred and sixty-one electoral votes, Gen. Jackson
received ninety-nine, Mr. Adams eighty-four, Mr. Crawford forty-one, and Mr. Clay thirty-seven.
Neither of the candidates having received a majority in the electoral colleges, the election
devolved on the House of Representatives. This took place on the 9th of Feb., 1825.

On the morning of that day, the House met at an earlier hour than usual. The galleries, the
lobbies, and the adjacent apartments, were filled to overflowing--with spectators from every
part of the Union to witness the momentous event. It was a scene the most sublime that could
be witnessed on earth. The Representatives of the People, in the exercise of the highest right
of freemen, were about to select a citizen to administer the Government of a great Republic.

All the members of the House were present, with the exception of one, who was confined by indisposition.
The Speaker (Henry Clay) took his chair, and the ordinary business of the morning was attended
to in the usual manner. At 12 o'clock, precisely, the members of the Senate entered the hall,
preceded by their Sergeant-at-arms, and having the President of the Senate at their head, who
was invited to a seat on the right hand of the Speaker. The Senators were assigned seats in
front of the Speaker's chair.

The President of the Senate (Mr. Gaillard) then rose, and stated that the certificates forwarded
by the electors from each State would be delivered to the Tellers. Mr. Tazewell of the Senate,
and Messrs. John W. Taylor and Philip P. Barbour on the part of the House, took their places,
as Tellers, at the Clerk's table. The President of the Senate then opened two packets, one
received by messenger and the other by mail, containing the certificates of the votes of the
State of New Hampshire. One of these certificates was then read by Mr. Tazewell, while the
other was compared with it by Messrs. Taylor and Barbour. The whole having been read, and the
votes of New Hampshire declared, they were set down by the Clerks of the Senate and of the
House of Representatives, seated at different tables. Thus the certificates from all the States
were gone through with. At the conclusion, the Tellers left the Clerk's tables, and, presenting
themselves in front of the Speaker, Mr. Tazewell delivered their report of the votes given.

The President of the Senate then rose, and declared that no person had received a majority
of the votes given for President of the United States: that Andrew Jackson, John Quincy Adams,
and William H. Crawford, were the three persons who had received the highest number of votes;
and that the remaining duties in the choice of a President now devolved on the House of Representatives.
The members of the Senate then retired.

The Speaker directed the roll of the House to be called by States, and the members of the respective
delegations to take their seats in the order in which the States should be called, beginning
at the right hand of the Speaker. The delegations took their seats accordingly. Ballot-boxes
were distributed to each delegation, by the Sergeant-at-arms, and the Speaker directed that
the balloting should, proceed. The ballots having all been deposited in the boxes, Tellers
were named by the respective delegations, being one from each State, who took their seats at
two tables.

Mr. Webster of Massachusetts was appointed by those Tellers who sat at one table, and Mr. Randolph
of Virginia by those at the other, to announce the result. After the ballots were counted out,
Mr. Webster rose, and said:--

"Mr. Speaker: The Tellers of the votes at this table have proceeded to count the ballots contained
in the boxes set before them. The result they find to be, that there are for John Quincy Adams,
of Massachusetts, thirteen votes; for Andrew Jackson, of Tennessee, seven votes; for William
H. Crawford, of Georgia, four votes."

Mr. Randolph, from the other table, made a statement corresponding with that of Mr. Webster.

The Speaker then stated this result to the House, and announced that JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, having
a majority of the votes of these United States, was duly elected President of the same, for
four years, commencing on the 4th day of March, 1825.

A committee was appointed to wait upon Mr. Adams, and announce to him the result of the election,
of which Mr. Webster was chairman. On performing this duty, they received from Mr. Adams the
following reply:--

GENTLEMEN:--In receiving this testimonial from the Representatives of the People and States
of this Union, I am deeply sensible of the circumstances under which it has been given. All
my predecessors have been honored with majorities of the electoral voices, in the primary colleges.
It has been my fortune to be placed, by the divisions of sentiment prevailing among our countrymen
on this occasion, in competition, friendly and honorable, with three of my fellow-citizens,
all justly enjoying, in eminent degrees, the public favor; and of whose worth, talents and
services no one entertains a higher and more respectful sense than myself. The names of two
of them were, in the fulfilment of the provisions of the constitution, presented to the selection
of the House of Representatives in concurrence with my own,--names closely associated with
the glory of the nation, and one of them farther recommended by a larger majority of the primary
electoral suffrages than mine.

In this state of things, could my refusal to accept the trust thus delegated to me give an
opportunity to the people to form, and to express, with a nearer approach to unanimity, the
object of their preference, I should not hesitate to decline the acceptance of this eminent
charge, and to submit the decision of this momentous question again to their determination.
But the constitution itself has not so disposed of the contingency which would arise in the
event of my refusal. I shall, therefore, repair to the post assigned me by the call of my country,
signified through her constitutional organs; oppressed with the magnitude of the task before
me, but cheered with the hope of that generous support from my fellow-citizens, which, in the
vicissitudes of a life devoted to their service, has never failed to sustain me--confident
in the trust, that the wisdom of the legislative councils will guide and direct me in the path
of my official duty; and relying, above all, upon the superintending providence of that Being
"in whose hands our breath is, and whose are all our ways."

"Gentlemen, I pray you to make acceptable to the House, the assurance of my profound gratitude
for their confidence, and to accept yourselves my thanks for the friendly terms in which you
have communicated to me their decision."

The diffidence manifested by Mr. Adams in accepting the office of President, under the peculiar
circumstances of his election, and his wish, if it were possible, to submit his claims again
to the people, were unquestionably uttered with great sincerity of heart. He was the choice
of but a minority, as expressed in the electoral vote; and in accordance with his republican
principles and feelings, he would have preferred another expression of public opinion.  But
the constitution made no provision for such an arbitrament. He must either serve or resign.
In the latter case, the Vice President would have discharged the duties of President during
the term. Mr. Adams had no alternative, therefore, but to accept the office, agreeably to the
terms of the constitution. Had either of his competitors been elected by the House of Representatives,
they would have been, as he was, a minority President. Notwithstanding Gen. Jackson received
fifteen more electoral votes than Mr. Adams, yet it is believed that in the primary assemblies
the latter obtained a greater number of the actual votes of the people than the former.

"Although Gen. Jackson had a plurality in the nominal returns from the electoral colleges,
the question is, whether he had a plurality in the popular votes of the States. In North Carolina,
the Crawford men had a great plurality over either of the Jackson and Adams sections; but the
two latter joining their forces, gave the electoral vote of the State, it being fifteen, to
Gen. Jackson. Deduct this from Gen. Jackson's plurality--as it should be, if the principle
of plurality is to govern--and it leaves him eighty-four, the same as the vote of Mr. Adams.
But Mr. Adams had a great plurality of the popular vote of New York, and on this principle
should be credited the entire thirty-six votes of that State, whereas, he received only twenty-six.
This adjustment would carry Mr. Adams up to ninety-four, and leave Gen. Jackson with eighty-four.
Besides, the popular majorities for Mr. Adams in the six New England States were greatly in
excess of the Jackson majorities in the eight States which gave their vote for him; which largely
augments Mr. Adams' aggregate plurality in the Union over Gen. Jackson's. Then deduct the constitutional
allowance for the slave vote in the slave States, as given by their masters. It will not be
pretended that this is a popular vote, though constitutional. Gen. Jackson obtained fifty-five
electoral votes, more than half his entire vote, and Mr. Adams only six from slave States.
It will therefore be seen, that on the principle of a popular plurality, carried out, and carried
through, (it ought not to stop for the advantage of one party,) Mr. Adams, in the election
of 1824, was FAR AHEAD of Gen. Jackson." [Footnote: Colton's Life and Times of Henry Clay.]

On the 4th of March, 1825, John Quincy Adams was inaugurated as President of the United States,
and took the executive chair, which had been entered twenty-eight years before by his venerated
father. The declaration of that father in reference to the son, when a lad--"He behaves like
a man!"--had gathered strength and meaning in the lapse of years. The people of the American
republic, taught by a long series of faithful and eminent services, in the fulfilment of the
prophetic words, placed him in a position the most elevated and honorable, the most worthy
the aim of a pure and patriotic ambition, that earth can afford!

The scene at the inauguration was splendid and imposing. At an early hour of the day the avenues
leading to the capitol presented an animated spectacle. Crowds of citizens on foot, in carriages,
and on horseback, were hastening to the great centre of attraction. Strains of martial music,
and the movements of the various military corps, heightened the excitement.

At 12 o'clock, the military escort, consisting of general and staff officers, and several volunteer
companies, received the President elect at his residence, together with President Monroe, and
several officers of government. The procession, led by the cavalry, and accompanied by an immense
concourse of citizens, proceeded to the capitol, where it was received, with military honors,
by the U. S. Marine Corps under Col. Henderson.

Meanwhile the hall of the House of Representatives presented a brilliant spectacle. The galleries
and the lobbies were crowded with spectators. The sofas between the columns, the bar, the promenade
in the rear of the Speaker's chair, and the three outer rows of the members' seats, were occupied
by a splendid array of beauty and fashion. On the left, the Diplomatic Corps, in the costume
of their respective Courts, occupied the place assigned them, immediately before the steps
which lead to the chair. The officers of the army and navy were scattered in groups throughout
the hall. In front of the Clerk's table chairs were placed for the Judges of the Supreme Court.

At twenty minutes past 12 o'clock, the marshals, in blue scarfs, made their appearance in the
hall, at the head of the august procession. First came the officers of both Houses of Congress.
Then appeared the President elect, followed by the venerable ex-president Monroe, with his
family. To these succeeded the Judges of the Supreme Court, in their robes of office, the members
of the Senate, preceded by the Vice-President, with a number of the members of the House of
Representatives.

Mr. Adams, in a plain suit of black, made entirely of American manufactures, ascended to the
Speaker's chair, and took his seat. The Chief Justice was placed in front of the Clerk's table,
having before him another table on the floor of the hall, on the opposite side of which sat
the remaining Judges, with their faces towards the chair. The doors having been closed, and
silence proclaimed, Mr. Adams arose, and, in a distinct and firm tone of voice, read his inaugural
address.

At the conclusion of the address, a general plaudit burst forth from the vast assemblage, which
continued some minutes. Mr. Adams then descended from the chair, and, proceeding to the Judges'
table, received from the Chief Justice a volume of the Laws of the United States, from which
he read, with a loud voice, the oath of office. The plaudits and cheers of the multitude were
at this juncture repeated, accompanied by salutes of artillery from without.

The congratulations which then poured in from every side occupied the hands, and could not
but reach the heart, of President Adams. The meeting between him and his venerated predecessor,
had in it something peculiarly affecting. General Jackson was among the earliest of those who
took the hand of the President; and their looks and deportment towards each other were a rebuke
to that littleness of party spirit which can see no merit in a rival, and feel no joy in the
honor of a competitor.

Shortly after 1 o'clock, the procession commenced leaving the hall. The President was escorted
back as he came. On his arrival at his residence, he received the compliments and respects
of a great number of ladies and gentlemen, who called on him to tender their congratulations.
The proceedings of the day were closed by an "inaugural ball" in the evening. Among the guests
present, were the President and Vice-President. Ex-President Monroe, a number of foreign ministers,
with many civil, military, and naval officers.[Footnote: National Intelligencer.]

Mr. Adams's Inaugural Address is as follows:--

"In compliance with an usage coeval with the existence of our federal constitution, and sanctioned
by the example of my predecessors in the career upon which I am about to enter, I appear, my
fellow-citizens, in your presence, and in that of heaven, to bind myself, by the solemnities
of a religious obligation, to the faithful performance of the duties allotted to me, in the
station to which I have been called.

"In unfolding to my countrymen the principles by which I shall be governed, in the fulfilment
of those duties, my first resort will be to that constitution which I shall swear, to the best
of my ability, to preserve, protect, and defend. Since the adoption of this social compact,
one of these generations has passed away. It is the work of our forefathers. Administered by
some of the most eminent men, who contributed to its formation, through a most eventful period
in the annals of the world, and through all the vicissitudes of peace and war, incidental to
the condition of associated man, it has not disappointed the hopes and aspirations of those
illustrious benefactors of their age and nation. It has promoted the lasting welfare of that
country so dear to us all; it has, to an extent far beyond the ordinary lot of humanity, secured
the freedom and happiness of this people. We now receive it as a precious inheritance from
those to whom we are indebted for its establishment, doubly bound by the examples which they
have left us, and by the blessings which we have enjoyed, as the fruits of their labors, to
transmit the same, unimpaired, to the succeeding generation.

"In the compass of thirty-six years, since this great national covenant was instituted, a body
of laws enacted under its authority, and in conformity with its provisions, has unfolded its
powers, and carried into practical operation its effective energies. Subordinate departments
have distributed the executive functions in their various relations to foreign affairs, to
the revenue and expenditures, and to the military force of the Union, by land and sea. A co-ordinate
department of the judiciary has expounded the constitution and the laws; settling, in harmonious
coincidence with the legislative will, numerous weighty questions of construction, which the
imperfection of human language had rendered unavoidable. The year of jubilee since the first
formation of our Union, has just elapsed; that of the Declaration of our Independence is at
hand. The consummation of both was effected by this constitution. Since that period, a population
of four millions has multiplied to twelve. A territory bounded by the Mississippi has been
extended from sea to sea. New States have been admitted to the Union, in numbers nearly equal
to those of the first confederation. Treaties of pence, amity, and commerce, have been concluded
with the principal dominions of the earth. The people of other nations, inhabitants of regions
acquired, not by conquests, but by compact, have been united with us in the participation of
our rights and duties, of our burdens and blessings. The forest has fallen by the axe of our
woodsmen--the soil has been made to teem by the tillage of our farmers; our commerce has whitened
every ocean. The dominion of man over physical nature has been extended by the invention of
our artists. Liberty and law have marched hand in hand. All the purposes of human association
have been accomplished as effectually as under any other Government on the globe, and at a
cost little exceeding, in a whole generation, the expenditures of other nations in a single year.

"Such is the unexaggerated picture of our condition under a constitution founded upon the republican
principle of equal rights. To admit that this picture has its shades, is but to say, that it
is still the condition of men upon earth. From evil--physical, moral, and political--it is
not our claim to be exempt. We have suffered, sometimes by the visitation of Heaven through
disease, often by the wrongs and injustice of other nations, even to the extremities of war;
and lastly, by dissentions among ourselves--dissentions, perhaps, inseparable from the enjoyment
of freedom, but which have more than once appeared to threaten the dissolution of the Union,
and, with it, the overthrow of all the enjoyments of our present lot, and all our earthly hopes
of the future. The causes of these dissensions have been various, founded upon differences
of speculation in the theory of republican government, upon conflicting views of policy in
our relations with foreign nations; upon jealousies of partial and sectional interests, aggravated
by prejudices and prepossessions, which strangers to each other are ever apt to entertain.

"It is a source of gratification and of encouragement to me, to observe that the great result
of this experiment upon the theory of human rights, has, at the close of that generation by
which it was formed, been crowned with success equal to the most sanguine expectations of its
founders. Union, justice, tranquillity, the common defence, the general welfare, and the blessings
of liberty--all have been promoted by the Government under which we have lived. Standing at
this point of time, looking back to that generation which has gone by, and forward to that
which is advancing, we may at once indulge in grateful exultation and in cheering hope. From
the experience of the past, we derive instructive lessons for the future.

"Of the two great political parties which have divided the opinions and feelings of our country,
the candid and the just will now admit, that both have contributed splendid talents, spotless
integrity, ardent patriotism, and disinterested sacrifices, to the formation and administration
of the Government, and that both have required a liberal indulgence for a portion of human
infirmity and error. The revolutionary wars of Europe, commencing precisely at the moment when
the Government of the United States first went into operation under the constitution, excited
collisions of sentiments and of sympathies, which kindled all the passions and embittered the
conflict of parties, till the nation was involved in war, and the Union was shaken to its centre.
This time of trial embraced a period of five and twenty years, during which the policy of the
Union in its relations with Europe constituted the principal basis of our own political divisions,
and the most arduous part of the action of the Federal Government. With the catastrophe in
which the wars of the French Revolution terminated, and our own subsequent peace with Great
Britain, this baneful weed of party strife was uprooted. From that time no difference of principle,
connected with the theory of government, or with our intercourse with foreign nations, has
existed or been called forth in force sufficient to sustain a continued combination of parties,
or given more than wholesome animation to public sentiment or legislative debate. Our political
creed, without a dissenting voice that can be heard, is, that the will of the people is the
source, and the happiness of the people is the end, of all legitimate government upon earth:
that the best security for the beneficence, and the best guaranty against the abuse of power,
consists in the freedom, the purity, and the frequency of popular elections: that the General
Government of the Union, and the separate Governments of the States, are all sovereignties
of legitimate powers, fellow-servants of the same masters--uncontrolled within their respective
spheres, uncontrollable by encroachments on each other. If there have been those who doubted
whether a confederated representative democracy was a Government competent to the wise and
orderly management of the common concerns of a mighty nation, those doubts have been dispelled.
If there have been projects of partial confederacies to be erected upon the ruins of the Union,
they have been scattered to the winds. If there have been dangerous attachments to one foreign
nation, and antipathies against another, they have been extinguished. Ten years of peace at
home and abroad have assuaged the animosities of political contention, and blended into harmony
the most discordant elements of public opinion. There still remains one effort of magnanimity,
one sacrifice of prejudice and passion, to be made by the individuals throughout the nation
who have heretofore followed the standards of political party. It is that of discarding every
remnant of rancor against each other, of embracing, as countrymen and friends, and of yielding
to talents and virtue alone that confidence which, in times of contention for principle, was
bestowed only upon those who bore the badge of party communion.

"The collisions of party spirit, which originate in speculative opinions, or in different views
of administrative policy, are in their nature transitory. Those which are founded on geographical
divisions, adverse interests of soil, climate, and modes of domestic life, are more permanent,
and therefore, perhaps, more dangerous. It is this which gives inestimable value to the character
of our Government, at once federal and national. It holds out to us a perpetual admonition
to preserve, alike, and with equal anxiety, the rights of each individual State in its own
Government, and the rights of the whole nation in that of the Union. Whatever is of domestic
concernment, unconnected with the other members of the Union, or with foreign lands, belongs
exclusively to the administration of the State Governments. Whatsoever directly involves the
rights and interests of the federative fraternity, or of foreign powers, is, of the resort
of this General Government. The duties of both are obvious in the general principle, though
sometimes perplexed with difficulties in the detail. To respect the rights of the State Governments
is the inviolable duty of that of the Union: the Government of every State will feel its own
obligation to respect and preserve the rights of the whole. The prejudices everywhere too commonly
entertained against distant strangers are worn away, and the jealousies of jarring interests
are allayed, by the composition and functions of the great national councils, annually assembled,
from all quarters of the Union, at this place. Here the distinguished men from every section
of our country, while meeting to deliberate upon the great interests of those by whom they
are deputed, learn to estimate the talents, and do justice to the virtues, of each other. The
harmony of the nation is promoted, and the whole Union is knit together by the sentiments of
mutual respect, the habits of social intercourse, and the ties of personal friendship, formed
between the representatives of its several parts in the performance of their service at this
metropolis.

"Passing from this general review of the purposes and injunctions of the Federal constitution
and their results, as indicating the first traces of the path of duty in the discharge of my
public trust, I turn to the administration of my immediate predecessor, as the second. It has
passed away in a period of profound peace: how much to the satisfaction of our country, and
to the honor of our country's name, is known to you all. The great features of its policy,
in general concurrence with the will of the Legislature, have been--To cherish peace while
preparing for defensive war to yield exact justice to other nations, and maintain the rights
of our own--to cherish the principles of freedom and equal rights, wherever they were proclaimed--to
discharge, with all possible promptitude, the national debt--to reduce within the narrowest
limits of efficiency the military force--to improve the organization and discipline of the
army--to provide and sustain a school of military science--to extend equal protection to all
the great interests of the nation--to promote the civilization of the Indian tribes; and to
proceed to the great system of internal improvements, within the limits of the constitutional
power of the Union. Under the pledge of these promises, made by that eminent citizen at the
time of his first induction to this office, in his career of eight years the internal taxes
have been repealed; sixty millions of the public debt have been discharged; provision has been
made for the comfort and relief of the aged and indigent among the surviving warriors of the
Revolution; the regular armed force has been reduced, and its constitution revised and perfected;
the accountability for the expenditures of public monies has been more effective; the Floridas
have been peaceably acquired, and our boundary has been extended to the Pacific Ocean; the
independence of the southern nations of this hemisphere has been recognized, and recommended
by example and by counsel to the potentates of Europe; progress has been made in the defence
of the country, by fortifications and the increase of the navy--towards the effectual suppression
of the African traffic in slaves--in alluring the aboriginal hunters of our land to the cultivation
of the soil and of the mind--in exploring the interior regions of the Union, and in preparing,
by scientific researches and surveys, for the further application of our national resources
to the internal improvement of our country.

"In this brief outline of the promise and performance of my immediate predecessor, the line
of duty, for his successor, is clearly delineated. To pursue to their consummation those purposes
of improvement in our common condition instituted or recommended by him, will embrace the whole
sphere of my obligation. To the topic of internal improvement, emphatically urged by him at
his inauguration, I recur with peculiar satisfaction. It is that from which I am convinced
that the unborn millions of our posterity, who are in future ages to people this continent,
will derive their most fervent gratitude to the founders of the Union--that in which the beneficent
action of its Government will be most deeply felt and acknowledged. The magnificence and splendor
of their public works are among the imperishable glories of the ancient republics. The roads
and aqueducts of Rome have been the admiration of all after ages, and have survived thousands
of years after all her conquests have been swallowed up in despotism, or become the spoil of
barbarians. Some diversity of opinion has prevailed with regard to the powers of Congress for
legislation upon objects of this nature. The most respectful deference is due to doubts, originating
in pure patriotism, and sustained by venerated authority. But nearly twenty years have passed
since the construction of the first national road was commenced. The authority for its construction
was then unquestioned. To how many thousands of our countrymen has it proved a benefit? To
what single individual has it ever proved an injury? Repeated, liberal and candid discussions
in the Legislature have conciliated the sentiments, and approximated the opinions of enlightened
minds, upon the question of constitutional power. I cannot but hope that, by the same process
of friendly, patient, and persevering deliberation, all constitutional objections will ultimately
be removed. The extent and limitation of the powers of the General Government, in relation
to this transcendently important interest, will be settled and acknowledged to the common satisfaction
of all; and every speculative scruple will be solved by a practical public blessing.

"Fellow-citizens, you are acquainted with the peculiar circumstances of the recent election,
which have resulted in affording me the opportunity of addressing you at this time. You have
heard the exposition of the principles which will direct me in the fulfilment of the high and
solemn trust imposed upon me in this station. Less possessed of your confidence, in advance,
than any of my predecessors, I am deeply conscious of the prospect that I shall stand more
and oftener in need of your indulgence. Intentions upright and pure, a heart devoted to the
welfare of our country, and the unceasing application of the faculties allotted to me to her
service, are all the pledges that I can give for the faithful performance of the arduous duties
I am to undertake. To the guidance of the legislative councils; to the assistance of the executive
and subordinate departments; to the friendly co-operation of the respective State Governments;
to the candid and liberal support of the people, so far as it may be deserved by honest industry
and zeal; I shall look for whatever success may attend my public service: and knowing that
'except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain,' with fervent supplications
for His favor, to His overruling providence I commit, with humble but fearless confidence,
my own fate, and the future destinies of my country."

In entering upon the discharge of his duties as President, Mr. Adams proceeded to form his
cabinet by nominating Henry Clay, of Kentucky, Secretary of State; Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania,
Secretary of the Treasury; James Barbour, of Virginia,   Secretary of War; Samuel L. Southard,
Secretary of the Navy, and Wm. Wirt, Attorney General. These were all men of superior talents,
of tried integrity and faithfulness, and well worthy the elevated positions to which they were
called.

The election of Mr. Adams to the presidency, was a severe disappointment to the friends of
Gen. Jackson. As the latter had received a majority of fifteen electoral votes over Mr. Adams,
it was confidently anticipated, nay, virtually demanded, that he should be elected by the House
of Representatives. This claim, it was insisted, was in accordance with the will of the people,
as expressed in the electoral colleges, and to resist it would be to violate the spirit of
the constitution, and to set at nought the fundamental principles of our republican Government.
A sufficient reply to these positions is found in the fact, that Gen. Jackson did not receive
a majority of the electoral votes, and hence a majority of the people could not be considered
as desiring his election. The absolute truth, subsequently obtained on this point, was, that
Mr. Adams had received more of the primary votes of the people than Gen. Jackson; and thus,
according to all republican principles, was entitled to be considered the first choice of the
citizens of the United States.

The position of Mr. Clay, in this contest for the presidency, was one of great delicacy and
difficulty. He was precisely in that critical posture, that, whatever course he might pursue,
he would be subject to misrepresentation and censure, and could not but raise up a host of
enemies. Originally one of the four candidates for the presidency, he failed, by five electoral
votes, in having a sufficient number to be one of the three candidates returned to the House
of Representatives, of which he was then Speaker. In this posture of affairs, it was evident
that upon the course which should be pursued by Mr. Clay, and his friends in the House, depended
the question who should be elected President. As Mr. Crawford, on account of the critical state
of his health, was considered out of the question, Mr. Clay was left to choose between Mr.
Adams and Gen. Jackson.

In this posture of affairs, Mr. Clay saw, that however patriotic the principles on which he
acted, and however pure the motives by which he might be governed in making his selection,
he must inevitably expose himself to the severest animadversions from the defeated party. But
he did not hesitate, in the discharge of what he believed to be a solemn duty he owed his country,
to throw his influence in behalf of the man whom he believed the best fitted to serve that
country in the responsible office of the presidency. Long before it had been foreseen such
a contingency would occur, he had expressed his want of confidence in the ability and fitness
of Gen. Jackson for the executive chair. But in Mr. Adams he saw a man of the utmost purity
and integrity of private character--a scholar of the ripest abilities--a statesman, a diplomatist,
a patriot of unquestioned talents and of long experience,--one who had been entrusted with
most important public interests by Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Madison and Monroe, and also
had received from these illustrious men every mark of confidence--whose familiarity with the
internal condition and foreign relations of the Union was unequalled by any public man! Between
men so dissimilar in their qualifications, how could Mr. Clay, with the slightest regard to
the welfare of the nation, the claims of patriotism, or the dictates of his conscience, hesitate
to choose? He did not hesitate. With an intrepid determination to meet all consequences, he
threw his influence in behalf of Mr. Adams, and secured his election.

This decisive step, as had been clearly foreseen, drew upon the head of Mr. Clay the severest
censures of the supporters of Gen. Jackson. Motives of the deepest political corruption were
attributed to him. They charged him with making a deliberate stipulation or "bargain" with
Mr. Adams, to give his influence, on the understanding that he was to receive, in payment,
the appointment to the state department. The undoubted object of this charge was to ruin Mr.
Clay's future prospects, and make capital to the advantage of Gen. Jackson in the next presidential
campaign. It implicated Mr. Adams equally with Mr. Clay. If the latter had been so corrupt
as to offer his support on the promise of office, the former was quite as guilty in accepting
of terms so venal. There never was a more base charge against American statesmen--there never
was one more entirely destitute of foundation, or even shadow of proof! It was at no time considered
entitled to the slightest particle of belief by those who were at Washington during these transactions
and had an opportunity of knowing the true state of things at that time. But there were many,
throughout the country, too ready to receive such reports in regard to public men. Both Mr.
Adams and Mr. Clay were greatly prejudiced by this alleged collusion--a prejudice which years
did not efface.

This charge first appeared in a tangible form shortly previous to the election by the House
of Representatives, in an anonymous letter in the "Columbian Observer," at Philadelphia. It
was soon ascertained to have been written by Mr. Kremer, a member of the House of Representatives
from Pennsylvania. Mr. Clay immediately published a card in the National Intelligencer, denying,
in unequivocal terms, the allegation, and pronouncing the author "an infamous calumniator,
a dastard, and a liar!"

A few days after this, Mr. Kremer acknowledged himself the author of the letter in the "Columbian
Observer," and professed himself ready to prove the corruptions alleged: whereupon Mr. Clay
demanded that the House raise a committee to investigate the case. The committee was appointed;
but Mr. Kremer, on grounds of the most frivolous description, refused to appear before the
committee, or to furnish a particle of proof of the truth of the grave assertions he had uttered--thus
virtually acknowledging their slanderous character.

Mr. Clay being in this manner denied the privilege of vindicating his innocence, and showing
the depravity of his accusers, the matter continued in an unsettled state until the next presidential
campaign, when it was revived in a more tangible form, and brought to bear adversely to Mr.
Adams's administration and reelection. In 1827, Gen. Jackson, in a letter to Mr. Carter Beverly,
which soon appeared in public print, made the following statement:--

"Early in January, 1825, a member of Congress of high respectability visited me one morning,
and observed that he had a communication he was desirous to make to me; that he was informed
there was a great intrigue going on, and that it was right I should be informed of it. * *
* * * * * He said he had been informed by the friends of Mr. Clay, that the friends of Mr.
Adams had made overtures to them, saying, if Mr. Clay and his friends would unite in aid of
Mr. Adams's election, Mr. Clay should be Secretary of State; that the friends of Mr. Adams
were urging, as a reason to induce the friends of Mr. Clay to accede to their proposition,
that if I were elected President, Mr. Adams would be continued Secretary of State; that the
friends of Mr. Clay stated the West did not wish to separate from the West, and if I would
say, or permit any of my confidential friends to say, that in case I were elected President
Mr. Adams should not be continued Secretary of State, by a complete union of Mr. Clay and his
friends, they would put an end to the presidential contest in one hour. And he was of opinion
it was right to fight such intriguers with their own weapons."

On a subsequent statement, Gen. Jackson asserted that the gentleman who called upon him with
these propositions was James Buchanan, of Pennsylvania.

This was the Kremer charge made definite in circumstances and application; and if well grounded,
was susceptible of plain proof. On the appearance of this statement by Gen. Jackson, Mr. Clay
came out with a positive denial. He said:--

"I neither made, nor authorized, nor knew of any proposition whatever, to either of the three
candidates who were returned to the House of Representatives, at the last presidential election,
or to the friends of either of them, for the purpose of influencing the result of the election,
or for any other purpose. And all allegations, intimations, and inuendoes, that my vote on
that occasion was offered to be given, or was in fact given, in consideration of any stipulation
or understanding, express or implied, direct or indirect, written or verbal,--that I was, or
that any other person was not, to be appointed Secretary of State; or that I was, or in any
other manner to be, personally benefitted,--are devoid of all truth, and destitute of any foundation
whatever."

Here was a direct collision between Gen. Jackson and Mr. Clay. All now rested with Mr. Buchanan.
His testimony would either prostrate Mr. Clay, or place him, in regard to this matter, beyond
the reach of the foulest tongue of calumny. In due time Mr. Buchanan made his statement, in
which he denied, in unequivocal language, having made any such proposition to Gen. Jackson.
In his explanation he says:--

"I called upon General Jackson solely as his friend, upon my individual responsibility, and
not as the agent of Mr. Clay, or any other person. I never have been the political friend of
Mr. Clay, since he became a candidate for the office of President. Until I saw General Jackson's
letter to Mr. Beverly, of the 6th ult., and at the same time was informed, by a letter from
the editor of the United States Telegraph, that I was the person to whom he alluded, the conception
never once entered my head, that he believed me to be the agent of Mr. Clay, or of his friends,
or that I had intended to propose to him terms of any kind from them, or that he could have
supposed me to be capable of expressing the opinion that 'it was right to fight such intriguers
with their own weapons.' Such a supposition, had I entertained it, would have rendered me exceedingly
unhappy, as there is no man on earth whose good opinion I more valued than that of General
Jackson. * * * * * * * * * I owe it to my character to make another observation. Had I ever
known, or even suspected, that General Jackson believed I had been sent to him by Mr. Clay
or his friends, I should immediately have corrected his erroneous impression, and thus prevented
the necessity for this most unpleasant explanation. * * * * * * * I had no authority from Mr.
Clay, or his friends, to propose any terms to General Jackson in relation to their votes, nor
did I ever make any such proposition."

This statement fully and triumphantly exonerated Mr. Clay, Mr. Adams, and their friends, from
the charge of "bargain" and "corruption," which had been so boldly made and widely disseminated.
The only witness ever brought upon the stand to support such an allegation, asserted, in a
manner the most positive and decisive, the entire innocence of the parties implicated.

That Mr. Clay, in throwing his influence in behalf of Mr. Adams, was but following out a resolution
formed long before he had any opportunity of communication with Mr. Adams or his friends, on
the subject, is proved by the following extract of a letter from a gentleman in Lexington,
Ky., to the editors of the National Intelligencer, dated March 21, 1825:--

"At different times, before Mr. Clay left this place for Washington, last fall, I had conversations
with him on the subject of the choice of a President by the House of Representatives. In all
of them, he expressed himself as having long before decided in favor of Mr. Adams, in case
the contest should lie between that gentleman and General Jackson. My last interview with him
was, I think, the day before his departure, when he was still more explicit, as it was then
certain that the election would be transferred to that tribunal, and highly probable that he
would not be among the number returned. In the course of this conversation, I took occasion
to express my sentiments with respect to the delicate and difficult circumstances under which
he would be placed. He remarked that I could not more fully apprehend them than he did himself;
but that nothing should deter him from the duty of giving his vote; and that no state of things
could arise that would justify him in preferring General Jackson to Mr. Adams, or induce him
to support the former. So decisive, indeed, were his declarations on this subject, that had
he voted otherwise than he did, I should have been compelled to regard him as deserving that
species of censure which has been cast upon him for constantly adhering to an early and deliberate
resolution."

It was thought, by some of Mr. Clay's friends, that he erred in judgment in accepting the office
of Secretary of State, as it would tend to strengthen his enemies in their efforts to fix upon
him the charge of corruption. Among those entertaining this opinion was Mr. Crawford, himself
one of the three presidential candidates returned to the House of Representatives. In a letter
to Mr. Clay he says:--

"I hope you know me too well to suppose that I have countenanced the charge of corruption which
has been reiterated against you. The truth is, I approved of your vote when it was given, and
should have voted as you did between Jackson and Adams. But candor compells me to say, that
I disapproved of your accepting an office under him."

In replying to this letter Mr. Clay remarked:--

"I do, my dear sir, know you too well to suppose that you ever countenanced the charge of corruption
against me. No man of sense and candor--at least none that know me--ever could or did countenance
it. Your frank admission that you would have voted as I did, between Mr. Adams and Gen. Jackson,
accords with the estimate I have ever made of your intelligence, your independence, and your
patriotism. Nor am I at all surprised, or dissatisfied, with the expression of your opinion,
that I erred in accepting the place which I now hold. * * * * * * * The truth is, as I have
often said, my condition was one full of embarrassments, whatever way I might act. My own judgment
was rather opposed to my acceptance of the department of state. But my friends--and let me
add, two of your best friends, Mr. McLane of Delaware and Mr. Forsyth--urged us strongly not
to decline it. It was represented by my friends, that I should get no credit for the forbearance,
but that, on the contrary, it would be said that my forbearance was evidence of my having made
a bargain, though unwilling to execute it. * * * * * * * * These and other similar arguments
were pressed upon me; and after a week's deliberation, I yielded to their force. It is quite
possible that I may have erred * * * * * * I shall, at least, have no cause of self-reproach."

In 1829, after Mr. Adams had retired from the Presidential chair, in reply to a letter from
a committee of gentlemen in New Jersey, who had addressed him, he spoke of Mr. Clay as follows:
"Upon him the foulest slanders have been showered. Long known and appreciated, as successively
a member of both Houses of your national Legislature, as the unrivalled Speaker, and at the
same time most efficient leader of debates in one of them; as an able and successful negotiator
of your interests, in war and peace, with foreign powers, and as a powerful candidate for the
highest of your trusts, the department of state itself was a station which by its bestowal
could confer neither profit nor honor upon him, but upon which he has shed unfading honor,
by the manner in which he has discharged its duties. Prejudice and passion have charged him
with obtaining that office by bargain and corruption. Before you, my fellow-citizens, in the
presence of our country and heaven, I pronounce that charge totally unfounded. This tribute
of justice is due from me to him, and I seize with pleasure the opportunity afforded me by
your letter, of discharging the obligation. As to my motives for tendering to him the department
of state when I did, let that man who questions them come forward; let him look around among
statesmen and legislators, of this nation, and of that day; let him then select and name the
man whom, by his pre-eminent talents, by his splendid services, by his ardent patriotism, by
his all-embracing public spirit, by his fervid eloquence in behalf of the rights and liberties
of mankind, and by his long experience in the affairs of the Union, foreign and domestic, a
President of the United States, intent only upon the welfare and honor of his country, ought
to have preferred to HENRY CLAY. Let him name the man, and then judge you, my fellow-citizens,
of my motives."

When Mr. Adams was on a tour in the western States, in the fall of 1843, in addressing the
chairman of the committee of his reception, at Maysville, Kentucky, he said: "I thank you,
sir, for the opportunity you have given me of speaking of the great statesman who was associated
with me in the administration of the General Government, at my earnest solicitation; who belongs
not to Kentucky alone, but to the whole Union; and who is not only an honor to this State,
and this nation, but to mankind. The charges to which you refer, after my term of service had
expired, and it was proper for me to speak, I denied before the whole country. And I here reiterate
and re-affirm that denial; and as I expect shortly to appear before my God, to answer for the
conduct of my whole life, should these charges have found their way to the throne of eternal
justice, I WILL in the presence of OMNIPOTENCE pronounce them FALSE."

Before the world Mr. Clay and Mr. Adams stand acquitted of the calumny which their enemies
endeavored, with an industry worthy a better cause, to heap upon them. The history of their
country will do them ample justice. Their names shall stand upon its pages, illuminated by
a well-earned fame for patriotism and faithful devotion to public interests, when those of
their accusers will be lost in a merited oblivion.

Mr. Adams, having entered upon his duties as President of the United States, prosecuted them
with all that diligence and industrious application which was one of the leading characteristics
of his life. Unawed by the opposition and the misrepresentations of his political enemies,
and uncorrupted by the power and influence at his control, he pursued the even tenor of his
way, having a single object in view, the promotion of the welfare of the people over whom he
had been called to preside.

In the meantime, the heart of the nation was being stirred by old and valued reminiscences.
LA FAYETTE,--a hero of the revolution--the companion of Washington--whose blood had enriched
American soil in defence of American freedom--had expressed a wish to re-visit once more, before
departing life, the scenes of his early struggles and well-earned glories. This intimation
was first given in the following letter to Col. Willet, an old friend and fellow-soldier of
La Fayette, who was then still living in New-York.

                                                    "Paris, July 15, 1822.
"My DEAR SIR:--I avail myself of a good opportunity to remind you of your
old friend and fellow-soldier, in whose heart no time nor distance can
abate the patriotic remembrance and personal affections of our
revolutionary times. We remain but too few survivors of that glorious
epoch, in which the fate of two hemispheres has been decided. It is an
additional monitor to think more of the ties of brotherly friendship which
united us. May it be in my power, before I join our departed companions,
to visit such of them as are still inhabitants of the United States, and
to tell you personally, my dear Willet, how affectionately
                             "I am your sincere friend,   LA FAYETTE."

"And be it further Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to ascertain
from the Marquis de La Fayette, the time when it will be most agreeable for him to perform
his visit; and that he offer to the Marquis a conveyance to this country in one of our national
ships."

La Fayette modestly declined this offer of a public ship. He sailed from Havre in the packet-ship
Cadmus, accompanied by his son, George Washington La Fayette, and arrived in New York on the
15th of August, 1824.

His reception at New York was sublime and brilliant in the extreme. The meeting between La
Fayette, Col. Willet, Gen. Van Cortland, Gen. Clarkson, and other revolutionary worthies, was
highly affecting. He knew them all. After the ceremony of embracing and congratulations were
over, La Fayette sat down by the side of Col. Willet. "Do you remember," said the colonel,
"at the battle of Monmouth, I was a volunteer aid to Gen. Scott? I saw you in the heat of battle,
you were but a boy, but you were a serious and sedate lad." "Aye, aye," returned La Fayette,
"I remember well. And on the Mohawk I sent you fifty Indians, and you wrote me that they set
up such a yell that they frightened the British horse, and they ran one way, and the Indians
another." Thus these veteran soldiers "fought their battles o'er again."

From New York La Fayette proceeded on a tour throughout the United States. Everywhere he was
received and honored, as "THE NATION'S GUEST." For more than a year, his journey was a complete
ovation--a perpetual and splendid pageant. The people appeared delirious with joy and with
anxiety to hail him, grasp him by the hand, and shower attentions and honors upon him. The
gratitude and love of all persons, of every age, sex, and condition, seemed hardly to be restrained
within bounds of propriety. As he passed through the country, every city, village, and hamlet,
poured out its inhabitants en masse, to meet him. Celebrations, processions, dinners, illuminations,
bonfires, parties, balls, serenades, and rejoicings of every description, attended his way,
from the moment he set foot on the American soil, until his embarkation to return to his native
France.

The hearts of the people in the most distant parts of the Western Hemisphere were warmed and
touched with the honors paid him in the United States. A letter written at that time from Buenos
Ayres, says--"I have just received newspapers from the United States, informing me of the magnificent
reception of Gen. La Fayette. I have never read newspapers with such exquisite delight as these;
and I firmly believe there never was so interesting and glorious an event in the civilized
world, in which all classes of people participated in the general joy, as on this occasion.
There is an association of ideas connected with this event, that produces in my soul emotions
I cannot express, and fills my heart with such grateful recollections as I cannot forget but
with my existence. That ten millions of souls, actuated by pure sentiments of gratitude and
friendship, should with one voice pronounce this individual the 'Guest of the Nation,' and
pay him the highest honors the citizens of a free nation can offer, is an event which must
excite the astonishment of Europe, and show the inestimable value of liberty."

In June, 1825, La Fayette visited Boston, and on the 17th day of that month, it being the anniversary
of the battle of Bunker Hill, he participated in the ceremony of laying the corner stone of
the monument in commemoration of that event, on Bunker Hill. During his tour at the east, he
visited the venerable ex-President John Adams, at Quincy.

But the time for his departure drew near. His journey had extended as far south as New Orleans,
west to St. Louis, north and east to Massachusetts.

A new frigate, the Brandywine, named in honor of the gallant exploits of Gen. La Fayette at
the battle of Brandywine, was provided by Congress to convey him to France. It was deemed appropriate
that he should take final leave of the nation at the seat of government in Washington. President
Adams invited him to pass a few weeks in the presidential mansion. Mr. Adams had been on intimate
terms with La Fayette in his youth, with whom, it is said, he was a marked favorite. During
his sojourn at the capitol, he visited ex-Presidents Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, at their
several places of residence.

Having paid his respects to these venerated sages, "the Nation's Guest" prepared to take his
final departure from the midst of a grateful people. The 7th of September, 1825, was the day
appointed for taking leave.  About 12 o'clock, the officers of the General Government, civil,
military, and naval, together with the authorities of Washington, Georgetown, and Alexandria,
with multitudes of citizens and strangers, assembled in the President's house. La Fayette entered
the great hall in silence, leaning on the Marshal of the District, and one of the sons of the
President. Mr. Adams then with evident emotion, but with much dignity and firmness, addressed
him in the following terms:--

"GENERAL LA FAYETTE: It has been the good fortune of many of my fellow- citizens, during the
course of the year now elapsed, upon your arrival at their respective places of abode to greet
you with the welcome of the nation. The less pleasing task now devolves upon me, of bidding
you, in the name of the nation, ADIEU!

"It were no longer seasonable, and would be superfluous, to recapitulate the remarkable incidents
of your early life--incidents which associated your name, fortunes, and reputation, in imperishable
connection with the independence and history of the North American Union.

"The part which you performed at that important juncture was marked with characters so peculiar,
that, realizing the fairest fable of antiquity, its parallel could scarcely be found in the
authentic records of human history.

"You deliberately and perseveringly preferred toil, danger, the endurance of every hardship,
and privation of every comfort, in defence of a holy cause, to inglorious ease, and the allurements
of rank, affluence, and unrestrained youth, at the most splendid and fascinating court of Europe.

"That this choice was not less wise than magnanimous, the sanction of half a century, and the
gratulations of unnumbered voices, all unable to express the gratitude of the heart, with which
your visit to this hemisphere has been welcomed, afford ample demonstration.

"When the contest of freedom, to which you had repaired as a voluntary champion, had closed,
by the complete triumph of her cause in this country of your adoption, you returned to fulfil
the duties of the philanthropist and patriot, in the land of your nativity. There, in a consistent
and undeviating career of forty years, you have maintained, through every vicissitude of alternate
success and disappointment, the same glorious cause to which the first years of your active
life had been devoted, the improvement of the moral and political condition of man.

"Throughout that long succession of time, the people of the United States, for whom and with
whom you have fought the battles of liberty, have been living in the full possession of its
fruits; one of the happiest among the family of nations. Spreading in population; enlarging
in territory; acting and suffering according to the condition of their nature; and laying the
foundations of the greatest, and, we humbly hope, the most beneficent power, that ever regulated
the concerns of man upon earth.

"In that lapse of forty years, the generation of men with whom you co-operated in the conflict
of arms, has nearly passed away. Of the general officers of the American army in that war,
you alone survive. Of the sages who guided our councils; of the warriors who met the foe in
the field, or upon the wave, with the exception of a few to whom unusual length of days has
been allotted by Heaven, all now sleep with their fathers. A succeeding, and even a third generation,
have arisen to take their places; and their children's children, while rising up to call them
blessed, have been taught by them, as well as admonished by their own constant enjoyment of
freedom, to include in every benison upon their fathers, the name of him, who came from afar,
with them and in their cause to conquer or to fall.

"The universal prevalence of these sentiments was signally manifested by a resolution of Congress,
representing the whole people, and all the States of this Union, requesting the President of
the United States to communicate to you the assurances of the grateful and affectionate attachment
of this government and people, and desiring that a national ship might be employed, at your
convenience, for your passage to the borders of our country.

"The invitation was transmitted to you by my venerable predecessor, himself bound to you by
the strongest ties of personal friendship; himself one of those whom the highest honors of
his country had rewarded for blood early shed in her cause, and for a long life of devotion
to her welfare. By him the services of a national ship were placed at your disposal. Your delicacy
preferred a more private conveyance, and a full year has elapsed since you landed upon our
shores. It were scarcely an exaggeration to say that it has been to the people of the Union
a year of uninterrupted festivity and enjoyment, inspired by your presence. You have traversed
the twenty-four States of this great confederacy--you have been received with rapture by the
survivors of your earliest companions in arms-you have been hailed, as a long-absent parent,
by their children, the men and women of the present age; and a rising generation, the hope
of future time, in numbers surpassing the whole population of that day when you fought at the
head and by the side of their forefathers, have vied with the scanty remnants of that hour
of trial, in acclamations of joy, at beholding the face of him whom they feel to be the common
benefactor of all. You have heard the mingled voices of the past, the present, and the future
age, joining in one universal chorus of delight at your approach; and the shouts of unbidden
thousands, which greeted your landing on the soil of freedom, have followed every step of your
way, and still resound like the rushing of many waters, from every corner of our land.

"You are now about to return to the country of your birth--of your ancestors--of your posterity.
The executive Government of the Union, stimulated by the same feeling which had prompted the
Congress to the designation of a national ship for your accommodation in coming hither, has
destined the first service of a frigate, recently launched at this metropolis, to the less
welcome, but equally distinguished trust, of conveying you home. The name of the ship has added
one more memorial to distant regions and to future ages, of a stream already memorable at once
in the story of your sufferings and of our independence.

"The ship is now prepared for your reception, and equipped for sea. From the moment of her
departure, the prayers of millions will ascend to heaven, that her passage may be prosperous,
and your return to the bosom of your family as propitious to your happiness as your visit to
this scene of your youthful glory has been to that of the American people.

"Go then, our beloved friend: return to the land of brilliant genius, of generous sentiments,
of heroic valor; to that beautiful France, the nursing mother of the twelfth Louis, and the
fourth Henry; to the native soil of Bayard and Coligne, of Turenne and Catinat, of Fenelon
and D'Aguesseau! In that illustrious catalogue of names, which she claims as of her children,
and with honest pride holds up to the admiration of other nations, the name of LA FAYETTE has
already for centuries been enrolled. And it shall henceforth burnish into brighter fame: for,
if in after days, a Frenchman shall be called to indicate the character of his nation by that
of one individual, during the age in which we live, the blood of lofty patriotism shall mantle
in his cheek, the fire of conscious virtue shall sparkle in his eye, and he shall pronounce
the name of LA FAYETTE. Yet we, too, and our children in life, and after death, shall claim
you for our own. You are ours, by that more than patriotic self-devotion with which you flew
to the aid of our fathers at the crisis of their fate: ours by that long series of years in
which you have cherished us in your regard: ours by that unshaken sentiment of gratitude for
your services, which is a precious portion of our inheritance: ours by that tie of love, stronger
then death, which has linked your name, for the endless ages of time, with the name of WASHINGTON.

"At the painful moment of parting from you, we take comfort in the thought, that wherever you
may be, to the last pulsation of your heart, our country will ever be present to your affections;
and a cheering consolation assures us that we are not called to sorrow, most of all, that we
shall see your face no more. We shall indulge the pleasing anticipation of beholding our friend
again. In the mean time, speaking in the name of the whole people of the United States, and
at a loss only for language to give utterance to that feeling of attachment with which the
heart of the nation beats, as beats the heart of one man--I bid you a reluctant and affectionate
FAREWELL!!

At the conclusion of this address, Gen. La Fayette replied as follows:--

"Amidst all my obligations to the General Government, and particularly to you, sir, its respected
Chief Magistrate, I have most thankfully to acknowledge the opportunity given me, at this solemn
and painful moment, to present the people of the United States with a parting tribute of profound,
inexpressible gratitude.

"To have been in the infant and critical days of these States adopted by them as a favorite
son; to have participated in the trials and perils of our unspotted struggle for independence,
freedom, and equal rights, and in the foundation of the American era of a new social order,
which has already pervaded this, and must, for the dignity and happiness of mankind, successively
pervade every part of the other hemisphere; to have received, at every stage of the revolution,
and during forty years after that period, from the people of the United State's and their Representatives
at home and abroad, continual marks of their confidence and kindness,--has been the pride,
the encouragement, the support of a long and eventful life.

"But how could I find words to acknowledge that series of welcomes, those unbounded and universal
displays of public affection, which have marked each step, each hour, of a twelvemonth's progress
through the twenty-four States, and which, while they overwhelm my heart with grateful delight,
have most satisfactorily evinced the concurrence of the people in the kind testimonies, in
the immense favors bestowed on me by the several branches of their Representatives, in every
part and at the central seat of the confederacy?

"Yet gratifications still higher awaited me. In the wonders of creation and improvement that
have met my enchanted eye, in the unparalleled and self-felt happiness of the people, in their
rapid prosperity and insured security, public and private, in a practice of good order, the
appendage of true freedom, and a national good sense, the final arbiter of all difficulties,
I have had proudly to recognize a result of the republican principles for which we have fought,
and a glorious demonstration to the most timid and prejudiced minds, of the superiority, over
degrading aristocracy or despotism, of popular institutions, founded on the plain rights of
man, and where the local rights of every section are preserved under a constitutional bond
of union. The cherishing of that union between the States, as it has been the farewell entreaty
of our great paternal Washington, and will ever have the dying prayer of every American patriot,
so it has become the sacred pledge of the emancipation of the world; an object in which I am
happy to observe that the American people, while they give the animating example of successful
free institutions, in return for an evil entailed upon them by Europe, and of which a liberal
and enlightened sense is everywhere more and more generally felt, show themselves every day
more anxiously interested.

"And now, sir, how can I do justice to my deep and lively feelings for the assurances, most
peculiarly valued, of your esteem and friendship; for your so very kind references to old times--to
my beloved associates--to the vicissitudes of my life; for your affecting picture of the blessings
poured, by the several generations of the American people, on the remaining days of a delighted
veteran; for your affectionate remarks on this sad hour of separation--on the country of my
birth, full, I can say, of American sympathies--on the hope, so necessary to me, of my seeing
again the country that has deigned, near a half a century ago, to call me hers? I shall content
myself, refraining from superfluous repetitions, at once, before you, sir, and this respected
circle, to proclaim my cordial confirmation of everyone of the sentiments which I have had
daily opportunities publicly to utter, from the time when your venerable predecessor, my old
brother in arms and friend, transmitted to me the honorable invitation of Congress, to this
day, when you, my dear sir, whose friendly connection with me dates from your earliest youth,
are going to consign me to the protection, across the Atlantic, of the heroic national flag,
on board the splendid ship, the name of which has been not the least flattering and kind among
the numberless favors conferred upon me.

"God bless you, sir, and all who surround us. God bless the American people, each of their
States, and the Federal Government. Accept this patriotic farewell of an overflowing heart.
Such will be its last throb when it ceases to beat."

As the last sentence of the farewell was pronounced, La Fayette advanced and took President
Adams in his arms, while tears poured down his venerable cheeks. Retiring a few paces, he was
overcome by his feelings, and again returned, and falling on the neck of Mr. Adams, exclaimed
in broken accents, "God bless you!" It was a scene at once solemn and moving, as the sighs
and tears of many who witnessed it bore testimony. Having recovered his self-possession, the
General stretched out his hands, and was in a moment surrounded by the greetings of the whole
assembly, who pressed upon him, each eager to seize, perhaps for the last time, that beloved
hand which was opened so freely for our aid when aid was so precious, and which grasped with
firm and undeviating hold the steel which so bravely helped to achieve our deliverance. The
expression which now beamed from the face of this exalted man was of the finest and most touching
kind. The hero was lost in the father and the friend. Dignity melted into subdued affection,
and the friend of Washington seemed to linger with a mournful delight among the sons of his
adopted country.

A considerable period was then occupied in conversing with various individuals, while refreshments
were presented to the company. The moment of departure at length arrived; and having once more
pressed the hand of Mr. Adams, he entered the barouche, accompanied by the Secretaries of State,
of the Treasury, and of the Navy, and passed from the capital of the Union. An immense procession
accompanied him to the banks of the Potomac, where the steamboat Mount Vernon awaited to convey
him down the river to the frigate Brandywine. The whole scene--the peals of artillery, the
sounds of numerous military bands, the presence of the vast concourse of people, and the occasion
that assembled them, produced emotions not easily described, but which every American heart
can readily conceive. As the steamboat moved off, the deepest silence was observed by the whole
multitude that lined the shore. The feelings that pervaded them was that of children bidding
farewell to a venerated parent.

When the boat came opposite the tomb of Washington, at Mount Vernon, it paused in its progress.
La Fayette arose. The wonders which he had performed, for a man of his age, in successfully
accomplishing labors enough to have tested his meridian vigor, whose animation rather resembled
the spring than the winter of life, now seemed unequal to the task he was about to perform--to
take a last look at "The tomb of Washington!" He advanced to the effort. A silence the most
impressive reigned around, till the strains of sweet and plaintive music completed the grandeur
and sacred solemnity of the scene. All hearts beat in unison with the throbbings of the veteran's
bosom, as he looked, for the last time, on the sepulchre which contained the ashes of the first
of men! He spoke not, but appeared absorbed in the mighty recollections which the place and
the occasion inspired.

After this scene, the boat resumed its course, and the next morning anchored in safety near
the Brandywine. Here La Fayette took leave of the Secretaries of State, the Treasury, and the
Navy, and the guests who had accompanied him from Washington, together with many military and
naval officers and eminent citizens who had assembled in various crafts near the frigate to
bid him farewell. The weather had been boisterous and rainy, but just as the affecting scene
had closed, the sun burst forth to cheer a spectacle which will long be remembered, and formed
a magnificent arch, reaching from shore to shore--the barque which was to bear the venerable
chief being immediately in the centre. Propitious omen! Heaven smiles on the good deeds of men!

The patriarchs John Adams and Thomas Jefferson still lingered on the shores of time. The former
had attained the good old age of 90 years, and the latter 82. Mrs. Adams, the venerable companion
of the ex-President, died in Quincy, on the 28th of Oct., 1818, aged 74 years. Although, amid
the various political strifes through which they had passed during the half century they had
taken prominent parts in the affairs of their country, Adams and Jefferson had frequently been
arrayed in opposite parties, and cherished many views quite dissimilar, yet their private friendship
and deep attachment had been unbroken. It continued to be cherished with generous warmth to
the end of their days. This pleasing fact, together with the wonderful vigor of their minds
in extreme old age, is proved by the following interesting correspondence between them, which
took place four years before their decease:--

  MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. ADAMS.

                                            "Monticello, June 1, 1822.
"It is very long, my dear sir, since I have written to you. My dislocated
wrist is now become so stiff, that I write slowly, and with pain; and
therefore write as little as I can. Yet it is due to mutual friendship, to
ask once in a while how we do? The papers tell us that General Starke is
off, at the age of ninety-three. ***** still lives at about the same age,
cheerful, slender as a grasshopper, and so much without memory, that he
scarcely recognizes the members of his household. An intimate friend of
his called on him, not long since. It was difficult to make him recollect
who he was, and sitting one hour, he told him the same story four times
over. Is this life?--with laboring step

  'To tread our former footsteps? pace the round
  Eternal?--to beat and beat
  The beaten track--to see what we have seen
  To taste the tasted--o'er our palates to decant
  Another vintage?'

"It is, at most, but the life of a cabbage, surely not worth a wish. When all our faculties
have left, or are leaving us, one by one, sight, hearing, memory, every avenue of pleasing
sensation is closed, and athumy, debility, and malaise left in their places, when the friends
of our youth are all gone, and a generation is risen around us whom we know not, is death an evil?

  'When one by one our ties are torn,
  And friend from friend is snatch'd forlorn;
  When man is left alone to mourn,
    Oh, then, how sweet it is to die!

  'When trembling limbs refuse their weight,
  And films slow gathering dim the sight;
  When clouds obscure the mental light,
  'Tis nature's kindest boon to die!'

"I really think so. I have ever dreaded a doting old age; and my health has been generally
so good, and is now so good, that I dread it still. The rapid decline of my strength during
the last winter, has made me hope sometimes, that I see land. During summer, I enjoy its temperature,
but I shudder at the approach of winter, and wish I could sleep through it, with the dormouse,
and only wake with him in spring, if ever. They say that Starke could walk about his room.
I am told you walk well and firmly. I can only reach my garden, and that with sensible fatigue.
I ride, however, daily; but reading is my delight. I should wish never to put pen to paper;
and the more because of the treacherous practice some people have, of publishing one's letters
without leave. Lord Mansfield declared it a breach of trust, and punishable at law. I think
it should be a penitentiary felony; yet you will have seen that they have drawn me out into
the arena of the newspapers. Although I know it is too late for me to buckle on the armor of
youth, yet my indignation would not permit me passively to receive the kick of an ass.

"To return to the news of the day, it seems that the cannibals of Europe
are going to eat one another again. A war between Russia and Turkey is
like the battle of the kite and snake; whichever destroys the other,
leaves a destroyer the less for the world. This pugnacious humor of
mankind seems to be the law of his nature; one of the obstacles to too
great multiplication, provided in the mechanism of the universe. The cocks
of the hen-yard kill one another; bears, bulls, rams, do the same, and the
horse in his wild state kills all the young males, until, worn down with
age and war, some vigorous youth kills him. * * * * * * I hope we shall
prove how much happier for man the Quaker policy is, and that the life of
the feeder is better than that of the fighter. And it is some consolation
that the desolation by these maniacs of one part of the earth is the means
of improving it in other parts. Let the latter be our office; and let us
milk the cow while the Russian holds her by the horns, and the Turk by the
tail. God bless you, and give you health, strength, good spirits, and as
much of life as you think worth having.
                                                    THOMAS JEFFERSON."

  MR. ADAMS' REPLY.
                                               "Quincy, June 11, 1822.
"DEAR SIR:--Half an hour ago I received, and this moment have heard read,
for the third or fourth time, the best letter that ever was written by an
octogenarian, dated June 1st.

  * * * * * * * * * *

"I have not sprained my wrist; but both my arms and hands are so overstrained that I cannot
write a line. Poor Starke remembered nothing, and could talk of nothing but the battle of Bennington!
******** is not quite so reduced. I cannot mount my horse, but I can walk three miles over
a rugged, rocky mountain, and have done it within a month; yet I feel, when sitting in my chair,
as if I could not rise out of it; and when risen, as if I could not walk across the room. My
sight is very dim, hearing pretty good, memory poor enough.

"I answer your question,--Is death an evil? It is not an evil. It is a blessing to the individual
and to the world; yet we ought not to wish for it, till life becomes insupportable. We must
wait the pleasure and convenience of the 'Great Teacher.' Winter is as terrible to me as to
you. I am almost reduced in it to the life of a bear or a torpid swallow. I cannot read, but
my delight is to hear others read; and I tax all my friends most unmercifully and tyrannically
against their consent.

"The ass has kicked in vain; all men say the dull animal has missed the mark.

"This globe is a theatre of war; its inhabitants are all heroes. The
little eels in vinegar, and the animalcules in pepper-water, I believe,
are quarrelsome. The bees are as warlike as the Romans, Russians, Britons,
or Frenchmen. Ants, caterpillars, and canker-worms are the only tribes
among whom I have not seen battles; and Heaven itself, if we believe
Hindoos, Jews, Christians, and Mahometans, has not always been at peace.
We need not trouble ourselves about these things, nor fret ourselves
because of evil doers; but safely trust the 'Ruler with his skies.' Nor
need we dread the approach of dotage; let it come if it must. ******, it
seems, still delights in his four stories; and Starke remembered to the
last his Bennington, and exulted in his glory; the worst of the evil is,
that our friends will suffer more by our imbecility than we ourselves.
*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *
"In wishing for your health and happiness, I am very selfish; for I hope
for more letters. This is worth more than five hundred dollars to me; for
it has already given me, and will continue to give me, more pleasure than
a thousand. Mr. Jay, who is about your age, I am told, experiences more
decay than you do.
                            "I am your old friend,
                                                   "JOHN ADAMS."

This correspondence excited attention in Europe. The editor of the London Morning Chronicle
prefaces it with the following remarks:--

"What a contrast the following correspondence of the two rival Presidents of the greatest Republic
of the world, reflecting an old age dedicated to virtue, temperance, and philosophy, presents
to the heart-sickening details, occasionally disclosed to us, of the miserable beings who fill
the thrones of the continent. There is not, perhaps, one sovereign of the continent, who in
any sense of the word can be said to honor our nature, while many make us almost ashamed of
it. The curtain is seldom drawn aside without exhibiting to us beings worn out with vicious
indulgence, diseased in mind, if not in body, the creatures of caprice and insensibility. On
the other hand, since the foundation of the American Republic, the chair has never been filled
by a man, for whose life (to say the least,) any American need once to blush. It must, therefore,
be some compensation to the Americans for the absence of pure monarchy, that when they look
upwards their eyes are not always met by vice, and meannesss, and often idiocy."

John Adams joined his fellow-citizens of Quincy, Mass., in celebrating the 4th of July, 1823,
at the age of 88 years. Being called upon for a toast, he gave the following:--

"The excellent President, Governor, Ambassador, and Chief Justice, JOHN JAY, whose name, by
accident, was not subscribed on the DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE, as it ought to have been,
for he was one of its ablest and faithfullest supporters.--A splendid star just setting below
the horizon." It would be difficult (said the Boston Patriot,) fully to describe the delicate
manner in which this toast was received and noticed by the company. Instead of loud acclamations,
which succeeded the other toasts, it was followed by soft and interrupted interjections and
aspirations, as if each individual was casting up an ejaculatory prayer, that the two illustrious
sages might pass the remainder of their days in tranquillity and ease, and finally be landed
on the blissful shores of a happy eternity.

In September, 1825, President Adams, with his family, left Washington, on a visit to his venerable
father, at Quincy. He travelled without ostentation, and especially requested that no public
display might be manifested. At Philadelphia, Mrs. Adams was taken ill, and the President was
compelled to proceed without her. This visit was of short duration. Called back to Washington
by public affairs, he left Quincy on the 14th of October. It was his last interview on earth
with his venerated parent. The aged patriarch had lived to see his country emancipated from
foreign thraldom, its independence acknowledged, its union consummated, its prosperity and
perpetuity resting on an immovable foundation, and his son elevated to the highest office in
its gift. It was enough! His work accomplished--the book of his eventful life written and sealed
for immortality--he was ready to depart and be at peace.

The 4th of July, 1826, will long be memorable for one of the most remarkable coincidences that
has ever taken place in the history of nations. It was the fiftieth anniversary--the "JUBILEE"--of
American independence! Preparations had been made throughout the Union, to celebrate the day
with unusual pomp and display.  John Adams and Thomas Jefferson had both been invited to participate
in the festivities of the occasion, at their several places of abode. But a higher summons
awaited them! they were bidden to a "jubilee" above, which shall have no end! On that half-century
anniversary of American Independence, at nearly the same hour of the day, the spirits of Adams
and Jefferson took their departure from earth!! Amid the rejoicings of the people, the peals
of artillery, the strains of music, the exultations of a great nation in the enjoyment of freedom,
peace, and happiness, they were released from the toils of life, and allowed to enter on their
rest.

The one virtually the mover, the other the framer, of the immortal Declaration of Independence--they
had together shared the dangers and the honors of the revolution--had served their country
in various important and responsible capacities--had both received the highest honors in the
gift of their fellow-citizens--had lived to see the nation to which they assisted in giving
birth assume a proud stand among the nations of the earth--her free institutions framed, consolidated,
tried, and matured--her commerce hovering over all seas--respected abroad, united, prosperous,
happy at home--what more had earth in store for them? Together they had counselled--together
they had dared the power of a proud and powerful Government--together they had toiled to build
up a great and prosperous people--together they rejoiced in the success with which a wise and
good Providence had crowned their labors--and together, on their country's natal day, amid
the loud-swelling acclamations of the "national jubilee," their freed spirits soared to light
and glory above!

The venerable ex-President Adams had been failing for several days before the 4th of July.
In reply to an invitation from a committee of the citizens of Quincy, to unite with them in
celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of American independence, he had written a note, from
which the following is an extract:--

"The present feeble state of my health will not permit me to indulge the hope of participating
with more than my best wishes, in the joys, and festivities, and the solemn services of that
day on which will be completed the fiftieth year from its birth, of the independence of the
United States: a memorable epoch in the annals of the human race, destined in future history
to form the brightest or the blackest page, according to the use or the abuse of those political
institutions by which they shall, in time to come, be shaped by the human mind."

Being solicited for a toast, to accompany the letter, he gave--"INDEPENDENCE FOREVER!!" He
was asked if anything should be added to it. Immediately he replied--"Not a word!" This toast
was drank at the celebration in Quincy, about fifty minutes before the departure of the venerated
statesman from earth.

On the morning of the 4th, which was ushered in by the ringing of bells and firing of cannon,
he was asked if he knew what day it was?--"O yes," he replied, "it is the glorious fourth of
July--God bless it!--God bless you all!!" In the course of the day he said, "It is a great
and glorious day." The last words he uttered were, "Jefferson survives!" But the spirit of
Jefferson had already left the body, and was hovering over the earth, to accompany his to higher
and brighter scenes of existence!!

Mr. Jefferson had been sensible for some days, that his last hour was at hand. He conversed
with his family and friends, with the utmost composure, of his departure, and gave directions
concerning his coffin and his funeral. He was desirous that the latter should take place at
Monticello, and that it should be without any display or parade. On Monday he inquired the
day of the month? Being told it was the 3d of July, he expressed an earnest desire that he
might be allowed to behold the light of the next day--the fiftieth anniversary of American
independence. His prayer was heard and answered. He beheld the rising of that sun on the morning
of the 4th, which was to set on a nation mourning the loss of two of its noblest benefactors,
and its brightest ornaments. He was cheerful to the last. A day or two previous, being in great
pain, he said to his physician--"Well, doctor, a few hours more, and the struggle will be over."

On the morning of the last day, as the physician entered his apartment, he said, "You see,
doctor, I am here yet." On a member of his family expressing an opinion that he was better,
he replied, with evident impatience--"Do not imagine for a moment that I feel the smallest
solicitude as to the result." Some individual present uttering a hope that he might recover,
he asked with a smile--"Do you think I fear to die?" Thus departed Thomas Jefferson. His last
words were--"I resign my soul to my God, and my daughter to my country!"

President J. Q. Adams receiving intelligence at Washington of the illness of his father, started
immediately for Quincy. Shortly before arriving at Baltimore, tidings reached him that the
patriarch had gone to his rest. Mr. Adams pursued his journey, but did not arrive at Quincy
in season to be present at the funeral. This took place on the 7th of July. It was attended
by a large body of citizens, assembled from the surrounding region. The funeral services took
place at the Unitarian church in Quincy, on which occasion an impressive discourse was delivered
by the Pastor, Rev. Mr. Whitney. The pall-bearers were Judge Davis, President Kirkland, Gov.
Lincoln, Hon. Mr. Greenleaf, Judge Story, and Lieut. Gov. Winthrop. During the exercises and
the moving of the procession, minute guns were fired from Mount Wallaston, and from various
eminences in the adjoining towns, and every mark of respect was paid to the remains of one
who filled so high a place in the history of his country and the regard of his fellow-citizens.

On the 2d of August, Mr. Webster delivered a eulogy on the death of Adams and Jefferson, before
the city authorities of Boston, and a vast body of people, in Faneuil Hall. President Adams
was present. It was one of Mr. Webster's most eloquent and successful attempts.

During this visit at the East, at this time, President J. Q. Adams attended the annual examination
of the public schools in Boston, and was present at the public dinner given in Faneuil Hall,
to the school committee, teachers, and most meritorious scholars. In reply to a complimentary
toast from the Mayor, Mr. Adams responded as follows:--

"MR. MAYOR, AND MY FELLOW-CITIZENS OF BOSTON:--A few days since, we were assembled in this
Hall, as the house of mourning--in commemoration of the two last survivors of that day which
had proclaimed at once our independence and our existence as a nation. We are now assembled
within the same walls, at the house of feasting--at the festival of fathers rejoicing in the
progressive improvement of their children.

"We have been told by the wisest man of antiquity, that it is better to go to the house of
mourning, than to the house of feasting. How emphatically true would that sentence be, if the
house of mourning were always such as this hall but so recently exhibited!--a mourning of gratitude--a
mourning of faithful affection--a mourning full of consolation and joy. And yet, could the
wisest of men now look down upon this happy meeting--of parents partaking together of the bounties
of Providence, in mutual gratulation with each other at the advances of their offspring in
moral and intellectual cultivation--would he, could he, my friends, have said that it is better
to go to the house of mourning than to such a house of feasting?

"For is not the spirit of that solemnity, and of this, effectively the same? If that was the
commemoration of the good deeds of your forefathers, may not this be called the commemoration
of the future achievements of your sons? If that day was dedicated to the blessed memory of
the past, is not this devoted to the no less blessed hope of the future? It was from schools
of public instruction, instituted by our forefathers, that the light burst forth. It was in
the primary schools; it was by the midnight lamps of Harvard hall, that were conceived and
matured, as it was within these hallowed walls that were first resounded the accents of that
independence which is now canonized in the memory of those by whom it was proclaimed.

"Was it not there that were formed, to say nothing of him 'fit for the praise of any tongue
but mine,'--but was it not there that were formed, and prepared for the conflicts of the mind,
for the intellectual warfare which distinguishes your Revolution from all the brutal butcheries
of vulgar war, your James Otis, your John Hancock, your Samuel Adams, your Robert Treat Paine,
your Elbridge Gerry, your James and your Joseph Warren, and last, not least, your Josiah Quincy,
so worthily represented by your Chief Magistrate here at my side?

"Indulge me, fellow-citizens, with the remark, that I have been called to answer to myself
these questions, before I could enjoy the happiness, at the very kind invitation of your Mayor
and Aldermen, of presenting myself among you this day.

"In conformity to my own inclinations, and to the usages of society, I have deemed it proper,
on the recent bereavement I have sustained, to withdraw for a time from the festive intercourse
of the world, and in retirement, so far as may be consistent with the discharge of public trusts,
to prepare for and perform the additional duties devolving upon me, as a son, and as a parent,
from this visitation of heaven. To that retirement I have hitherto been confined; and in departing
from it for a single day, I have needed an apology to myself, as I trust I shall need one to
you. Seek for it, my fellow-citizens in your own paternal hearts. I have been unable to resist
the invitation of the authorities of this my own almost native city, to mingle with her inhabitants
in the joyous festivities of this occasion--and, after witnessing, in the visitation of the
schools, hundreds and thousands of the rising generation training 'up in the way they should
go;' to come here and behold the distinguished proficients of the schools sharing at the social
board the pleasures of their fathers, and to congratulate the fathers on the growing virtues
and brightening talents of their children.

"But, fellow-citizens, I will no longer trespass upon your indulgence. I thank you for the
sentiment with which you have honored me. I thank you for the many affecting testimonials of
kindness and sympathy which I have so often received at your hands; and will give you as a
token of my good wishes, not yourselves, but objects dearer to your hearts. Mr. Mayor, I propose
to you for a toast--

"The blooming youth of Boston--May the maturity of the fruit be equal to the promise of the
blossom."

In administering the Government of the United States, Mr. Adams adhered with rigid fidelity
to the principles embodied in his inaugural speech. He was emphatically the President of the
entire people, and not of a section, or a party. His administration was truly national in its
scope, its objects, and its results. His views of the sacred nature of the trust imposed upon
him by his fellow-citizens were too exalted to allow him to desecrate the power with which
it clothed him to the promotion of party or personal interests. Although not unmindful of the
party which elevated him to the presidency, nor forgetful of the claims of those who yielded
sympathy and support to the measures of his administration, yet in all his doings in this respect,
his primary aim was the general good. Simply a friendship for him, or his measures, without
other and requisite qualifications, would not ensure from Mr. Adams an appointment to office.
Neither did an opposition to his administration alone, except there was a marked practical
unfitness for office, ever induce him to remove an individual from a public station.

Looking back to the administration of Mr. Adams from the present day, and comparing it with
those which have succeeded it, or even those which preceded it, the acknowledgment must be
made by all candid minds, that it will lose nothing in purity, patriotism, and fidelity, in
the discharge of all its trusts. He was utterly incapable of proscription for opinion's sake.
With a stern integrity worthy the highest admiration, and which the people at that period were
far too slow to acknowledge and appreciate, he would not displace his most active political
opponents from public stations he found them occupying, provided they were competent to their
duty and faithful in the discharge of the same. "It was in my hearing that, to a representation
that a certain important and influential functionary of the General Government in New York
was using the power of his office adversely to Mr. Adams's re-election, and that he ought to
desist or be removed, Mr. Adams made this reply:--'That gentleman is one of the best officers
in the public service. I have had occasion to know his diligence, exactness, and punctuality.
On public grounds, therefore, there is no cause of complaint against him, and upon no other
will I remove him. If I cannot administer the Government on these principles, I am content
to go back to Quincy!'" [Footnote: King's Eulogy on John Quincy Adams.] Being in Baltimore
on a certain occasion, among those introduced to him was a gentleman who accosted him thus--"Mr.
President, though I differ from you in opinion, I am glad to find you in good health." The
President gave him a hearty shake of the hand, and replied,--"Sir, in our happy and free country,
we can differ in opinion without being enemies."

These anecdotes illustrate the character and principles of Mr. Adams. He knew nothing of the
jealousy and bitterness which are gendered, in little minds and hearts, by disparities of sentiment.
Freedom of opinion he considered the birthright of every American citizen, and he would in
no instance be the instrument of inflicting punishment upon the head of any man on account
of its exercise. High and pure in all his aims, he sought to reach them by means of a corresponding
character. If he could not succeed in the use of such instruments, he was content to meet defeat.

In the truly republican position which Mr. Adams took in regard to appointments to office,
and which, it is humiliating to believe, was one means of his subsequent defeat, he but faithfully
imitated the example of "the Father of his country." When Gen. Washington occupied the presidential
chair, application was made for the appointment of one of his old and intimate friends to a
lucrative office. At the same time a petition was received asking the same station for a most
determined political opponent. The latter received the appointment. The friend was greatly
disappointed and hurt in his feelings at his defeat. Let the explanation of Washington be noted
and ever remembered:--"My friend," said he, "I receive with cordial welcome. He is welcome
to my house, and welcome to my heart; but with all his good qualities he is not a man of business.

The period of Mr. Adams's administration, was not one which admitted of acts calculated to
rivet the attention, or excite the admiration and applause of the multitude. No crisis occurred
in national affairs--no imminent peril from without, or danger within, threatened the well-being
of the country! Quietness reigned throughout the world, and the nations were allowed once more
to cultivate the arts of peace, to enlarge the operations of commerce, and to fix their attention
on domestic interests--the only true fountain of national prosperity. But though lacking in
some of the more striking elements of popularity, the administration of Mr. Adams was preeminently
useful in all its measures and influences. During no Presidential term since the organization
of the Government, has more been done to consolidate the Union, and develop its resources,
and lay the foundations of national strength and prosperity.

The two great interests which, perhaps, received the largest share of attention from Mr. Adams'
administration, were internal improvements and domestic manufactures. A special attention to
these subjects was recommended in his messages to Congress. And throughout his term, he failed
not to urge these vital matters upon the attention of the people, and their representatives.
He recommended the opening of national roads and canals--the improvement of the navigation
of rivers, and the safety of harbors--the survey of our coasts, the erection of light houses,
piers, and breakwaters. Whatever tended to facilitate communication and transportation between
extreme portions of the Union--to bring the people of distant sections into a more direct intercourse
with each other, and bind them together by ties of a business, social and friendly nature--to
promote enterprize, industry, and enlarged views of national and individual prosperity--obtained
his earnest sanction and recommendation. To encourage home labor--to protect our infant manufactories
from a fatal competition with foreign pauper wages--to foster and build up in the bosom of
the country a system of domestic production, which should not only supply home consumption,
and afford a home market for raw materials and provisions, the produce of our own soil, but
enable us in due time to compete with other nations in sending our manufactures to foreign
markets--he yielded all his influence to the levying of protective duties on foreign articles,
especially such as could be produced in our own country. The wisdom of this policy, its direct
tendency to promote national wealth and strength, and to render the Union truly independent
of the fluctuations and vicissitudes of foreign countries, cannot be doubted, it would seem,
by those possessing clear minds and sound judgment, of all parties.

Under the faithful supervision of one so vigilant as Mr. Adams, the foreign relations of the
Government could not have been neglected. The intimate knowledge of the condition of foreign
nations, their resources and their wants, which was possessed by himself and by Mr. Clay, the
Secretary of State, afforded facilities in this department, from which the country reaped the
richest benefit. During the four years of his administration, more treaties were negotiated
at Washington than during the entire thirty-six years through which the preceding administrations
had extended. New treaties of amity, navigation and commerce, were concluded with Austria,
Sweden, Denmark, the Hanseatic League, Prussia, Colombia, and Central America. Commercial difficulties
and various arrangements of a satisfactory character, were settled with the Netherlands, and
other European Governments. The claims of our citizens against Sweden, Denmark and Brazil,
for spoilations of commerce, were satisfactorily consummated.

"As time advances, the evidences are accumulating on all sides, that the administration of
John Quincy Adams was one of the most wise, patriotic, pacific, just, and wealth-producing,
in the history of the country; and no small part of that benefit may justly be ascribed to
the aid he received from his Secretary of State. Mr. Adams himself was a great statesman, bred
in the school of statesmen, and all his life exercised in the business of state, with recognized
skill, and approved fidelity. The seven years immediately preceding the administration of Mr.
Adams, was a period of great commercial embarrassment and distress; and the seven years subsequent
to his entrance on the duties of chief executive, was a period of great public and private
prosperity." [Footnote: Cotton's Life of Clay.]

While Mr. Adams was thus seeking to foster and encourage the industrial and monetary interests
of the country, he was not forgetful of the important claims of literature and science. President
Washington, during his administration, had repeatedly urged on Congress the importance of establishing
a national university at the capital; and he had located and bequeathed a site for that purpose.
But his appeals on this subject had been in vain.

In the same message Mr. Adams recommended the establishment of a national observatory.

It is humiliating to reflect that neither of these recommendations received an encouraging
response from Congress. The latter suggestion, indeed, excited the ridicule of many of the
opposers of Mr. Adams, and "a light-house in the skies," became a term of reproach in their
midst. In this, however, it must be confessed, their ridicule was greatly at the expense of
their intelligence, their public spirit, and their devotion to the highest interests of man.
There are few reflections more mortifying to an American citizen, than that while so large
a portion of the resources of the national Government have been exhausted in prosecuting party
measures, rewarding partisan services, and promoting sectional and personal schemes, little
or nothing has been devoted to the encouragement of the arts and sciences, and the cultivation
of those higher walks of human attainment which exalt and refine a people, and fit them for
the purest and sweetest enjoyments of life.

It was during the first year of his administration, that the attention of Mr. Adams was called
to a proposed Congress of all the Republics on the American Continent, to meet at Panama. The
objects designed to be accomplished by such a Congress have been variously stated. It has been
believed by some to have been called for the purpose of opposing a supposed project, entertained
by the Allied Powers of Europe, of combining for the purpose of reducing the American Republics
to their former condition of European vassalage. Be this as it may, the Panama Congress, among
its objects, aimed at the cementing of the friendly relations of all the independent States
of America, and the forming of a kind of mutual council, to act as an umpire to settle the
differences which might arise between them.

The United States was invited to send representatives to Panama. Mr. Adams, as President, in
view of the beneficial influences which in various ways might flow from such a meeting, accepted
the invitation, with the understanding that the Government of the United States would take
no part that could conflict with its neutral position, in the wars which might then be in existence
between any of the South American Republics and other powers. The acceptance of this invitation
was announced by Mr. Adams in his first message to Congress. This was immediately followed
by the nomination of Messrs. Richard C. Anderson and John Sargeant, as commissioners to the
Congress of Panama, and Wm. B. Rochester, of New York, as secretary of the commission. These
nominations were confirmed by the Senate; and an appropriation was voted by the House of Representatives,
after strong opposition and much delay, to carry the contemplated measure into effect.

But the United States Government was never represented in the Panama Congress. The proceedings
in the House of Representatives on this subject had been so protracted, that it was found too
late for Mr. Sargeant to reach Panama in season for the meeting of the Congress, which took
place on the 22nd of June, 1826. Mr. Anderson, who was then minister at Colombia, on receiving
his instructions, commenced his journey to Panama; but on reaching Carthagena he was seized
with a malignant fever, which terminated his existence.

During the second session of the nineteenth Congress, the subject of commercial intercourse
with the British West India Colonies was thoroughly discussed. The British Parliament had laid
restrictions so onerous on the trade of the United States with these Colonies, that it could
be pursued to very little profit. Bills were introduced into both houses of Congress, for the
protection of the interests of American merchants, trading with the British Colonies; but the
Senate and House failing to agree on the details of the proposed measures, nothing was done
to effect the desired object. Congress having adjourned without passing any law to meet the
restrictive measures of Great Britain, President Adams, on the 17th of March, 1827, agreeably
to a law passed three years before, issued a proclamation closing the ports of the United States
against vessels from the British colonies, until the restrictive measures of the British Government
should be repealed.

The policy pursued by Mr. Adams toward the Indian tribes within the United States, was pacific
and humane. The position they held toward the General Government was of an unsettled and embarrassing
character. Enjoying a species of independence, and subject to laws of their own enactment,
they were, nevertheless, dependent on the Government of the United States for protection, and
were, in fact, wholly at its disposal. Near the close of Mr. Monroe's administration, in a
message to Congress, on the 27th of January, 1825, he proposed a plan to remove the tribes
scattered through the several States, to a tract of country west of the Mississippi, and to
unite them in one nation, with some plan for their government and civilization. This proposition
meeting with a decided opposition on the part of many of the Indians, was modified during Mr.
Adams's administration. It finally resulted in a plan of removing west of the Mississippi such
individuals among the various tribes as would consent to go under the inducements held out;
and allowing the remainder to continue in their old abode, occupying each a small tract of
land. This policy has since been pursued by the General Government, and has resulted in the
removal of most of the aborigines beyond the western shores of the Mississippi.

These removals, however, have been attended with no little difficulty, and at times have led
to collisions which have assumed a serious aspect. An instance of this description occurred
during the first year Mr. Adams occupied the presidential chair. In 1802, a compact was formed
between the General Government and the State of Georgia, in which it was agreed, that in consequence
of the relinquishment, on the part of Georgia, of all her claim to the land set off in the
then new Mississippi Territory, the General Government, at its own expense, should obtain a
relinquishment, from the Creek Indians, of all their lands within the State of Georgia, "whenever
it could be peaceably done upon reasonable terms."

In compliance with this agreement, the United States had extinguished the Indian title to about
fifteen millions of acres of land. At the close of Mr. Monroe's administration, over nine millions
of acres were still retained by the Indians. The State authorities of Georgia became very anxious
to obtain possession of this also. At the solicitation of Gov. Troup, President Madison sent
two Commissioners to make a treaty with the Creeks, for the purchase of their lands, and the
removal of the Indians beyond the Mississippi. But the Creeks, having begun to appreciate and
enjoy the comforts of civilization, and the advantages of the arts and sciences, which had
been introduced into their midst, refused to treat on the subject, and passed a law in the
General Council of their nation, forbidding, on pain of death, the sale of any of their lands.
After the close of the council, a few of the Creeks, influenced by a chief named M'Intosh,
met the United States Commissioners, and formed a treaty on their own responsibility, ceding
to the General Government all the Creek lands in Georgia and Alabama. When intelligence of
this treaty was circulated among the Indians, they were filled with indignation. Their General
Council met--resolved not to sanction a treaty obtained in a manner so dishonorable and illegal--and
despatched a party of Indians to the residence of M'Intosh, who immediately shot him and another
chief who had signed the treaty with him.

This surreptitious treaty was transmitted to Washington, and under a misapprehension of the
manner in which it was secured, was ratified by the Senate, on the 3d of March, 1825, the last
day of Mr. Monroe's administration. Gov. Troup, acting under this treaty, sent surveyors into
the Creek Territory, to lay out the land in lots, which were to be distributed among the white
inhabitants of Georgia, by lottery. The Indians resisted this encroachment, and prepared to
defend their rights by physical force--at the same time sending to Washington for protection
from the General Government. The authorities of Georgia insisted upon a survey, and ordered
out a body of militia to enforce it.

On hearing of this state of affairs, President Adams despatched a special agent to inquire
into the facts of the case. After due investigation, the agent reported that the treaty had
been obtained by bad faith and corruption, and that the Creeks were almost unanimously opposed
to the cession of their lands. On receiving this report, the President determined to prevent
the survey ordered by the Governor of Georgia, until the matter could be submitted to Congress,
and ordered Gen. Gaines to proceed to the Creek country with a body of United States troops,
to prevent collision between the Indians and the Georgia forces.

On the 5th of February, Mr. Adams transmitted a message to Congress, giving a statement of
these transactions, and declaring his determination to fulfil the duty of protection the nation
owed the Creeks, as guaranteed by treaty, by all the force at his command. "That the arm of
military force," he continued, "will be resorted to only in the event of the failure of all
other expedients provided by the laws, a pledge has been given by the forbearance to employ
it at this time. It is submitted to the wisdom of Congress to determine whether any further
acts of legislation may be necessary or expedient to meet the emergency which these transactions
may produce."

The committee of the House of Representatives, to which this message was referred, reported
that it "is expedient to procure a cession of the Indian lands in the State of Georgia, and
that until such a cession is procured, the law of the land, as set forth in the treaty at Washington,
ought to be maintained by all necessary, constitutional, and legal means." The firmness and
decision of President Adams undoubtedly prevented the unhappy consequences of a collision between
the people of Georgia and the Creek Indians. A new negotiation was opened with the Indians,
by direction of the President, which resulted in declaring the M'Intosh treaty null and void,
and in obtaining, at length, a cession of all the lands of the Creeks within the limits of
Georgia, to the General Government.

As the friend and promoter of internal improvements, Mr. Adams was invited to be present at
the interesting ceremony of "breaking ground," on the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, then about
to be commenced, which took place on the 4th of July, 1828. On the morning of that day, the
President, the Heads of Departments, the Foreign Ministers, the Corporations of Washington,
Georgetown, and Alexandria, the President and Directors of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
with a large concourse of citizens, embarked on board of steamboats and ascended the Potomac,
to the place selected for the ceremony. On reaching the ground, a procession was formed, which
moved around it so as to leave a hollow space, in the midst of a mass of people, in the centre
of which was the spot marked out by Judge Wright, the Engineer of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company, for the commencement of the work. A moment's pause here occurred, while the spade,
destined to commence the work, was selected by the committee of arrangements, and the spot
for breaking ground was precisely denoted.

At that moment the sun shone out from behind a cloud, giving an appearance of the highest animation
to the scene. Amidst an intense silence, the Mayor of Georgetown handed to Gen. Mercer, the
President of the Canal Company, the consecrated instrument; which, having received, he stepped
forward from the resting column, and addressed as follows the listening multitude:--

"Fellow-citizens: There are moments in the progress of time which are the counters of whole
ages. There are events, the monuments of which, surviving every other memorial of human existence,
eternize the nation to whose history they belong, after all other vestiges of its glory have
disappeared from the globe. At such a moment have we now arrived. Such a monument we are now
to found."

Turning towards the President of the United States, who stood near him, Mr. M. proceeded:--

"Mr. President: On a day hallowed by the fondest recollections, beneath this cheering (may
we not humbly trust auspicious) sky, surrounded by the many thousand spectators who look on
us with joyous anticipation; in the presence of the representatives of the most polished nations
of the old and new worlds; on a spot where little more than a century ago the painted savage
held his nightly orgies; at the request of the three cities of the District of Columbia, I
present to the Chief Magistrate of the most powerful Republic on earth, for the most noble
purpose that was ever conceived by man, this humble instrument of rural labor, a symbol of
the favorite occupation of our countrymen. May the use to which it is about to be devoted prove
the precursor, to our beloved country, of improved agriculture, of multiplied and diversified
arts, of extended commerce and navigation. Combining its social and moral influence with the
principles of that happy constitution under which you have been called to preside over the
American people, may it become a safeguard of their liberty and independence, and a bond of
perpetual union!

"To the ardent wishes of this vast assembly I unite my fervent prayer to that infinite and
awful Being without whose favor all human power is but vanity, that he will crown your labor
with his blessing, and our work with immortality."

As soon as he had ended, the President of the United States, to whom Gen. Mercer had presented
the spade, stepped forward, and, with an animation of manner and countenance which showed that
his whole heart was in the thing, thus addressed the assembly of his fellow-citizens:--

"Friends and Fellow-citizens: It is nearly a full century since Berkely, bishop of Cloyne,
turning towards this fair land which we now inhabit, the eyes of a prophet, closed a few lines
of poetical inspiration with this memorable prediction--

    "Time's noblest empire is the last :"--

a prediction which, to those of us whose lot has been cast by Divine Providence in these regions,
contains not only a precious promise, but a solemn injunction of duty, since upon our energies,
and upon those of our posterity, its fulfilment will depend. For with reference to what principle
could it be that Berkely proclaimed this, the last, to be the noblest empire of time? It was,
as he himself declares, on the transplantation of learning and the arts to America. Of learning
and the arts. The four first acts--the empires of the old world, and of former ages--the Assyrian,
the Persian, the Grecian, the Roman empires--were empires of conquest, dominions of man over
man. The empire which his great mind, piercing into the darkness of futurity, foretold in America,
was the empire of learning and the arts,--the dominion of man over himself, and over physical
nature--acquired by the inspirations of genius, and the toils of industry; not watered with
the tears of the widow and the orphan; not cemented in the blood of human victims; founded
not in discord, but in harmony,--of which the only spoils are the imperfections of nature,
and the victory achieved is the improvement of the condition of all. Well may this be termed
nobler than the empire of conquest, in which man subdues only his fellow-man.

"To the accomplishment of this prophecy, the first necessary step was the acquisition of the
right of self-government, by the people of the British North American Colonies, achieved by
the Declaration of Independence, and its acknowledgment by the British nation. The second was
the union of all these colonies under one general confederated Government--a task more arduous
than that of the preceding separation, but at last effected by the present constitution of
the United States.

"The third step, more arduous still than either or both the others, was that which we, fellow-citizens,
may now congratulate ourselves, our country, and the world of man, that it is taken. It is
the adaptation of the powers, physical, moral, and intellectual, of this whole Union, to the
improvement of its own condition: of its moral and political condition, by wise and liberal
institutions--by the cultivation of the understanding and the heart--by academies, schools,
and learned institutes--by the pursuit and patronage of learning and the arts; of its physical
condition, by associated labor to improve the bounties, and to supply the deficiencies of nature;
to stem the torrent in its course; to level the mountain with the plain; to disarm and fetter
the raging surge of the ocean. Undertakings of which the language I now hold is no exaggerated
description, have become happily familiar not only to the conceptions, but to the enterprize
of our countrymen. That for the commencement of which we are here assembled is eminent among
the number. The project contemplates a conquest over physical nature, such as has never yet
been achieved by man. The wonders of the ancient world, the pyramids of Egypt, the Colossus
of Rhodes, the temple at Ephesus, the mausoleum of Artemisia, the wall of China, sink into
insignificance before it:--insignificance in the mass and momentum of human labor required
for the execution--insignificance in comparison of the purposes to be accomplished by the work
when executed. It is, therefore, a pleasing contemplation to those sanguine and patriotic spirits
who have so long looked with hope to the completion of this undertaking, that it unites the
moral power and resources--first, of numerous individuals--secondly, of the corporate cities
of Washington, Georgetown, and Alexandria--thirdly, of the great and powerful States of Pennsylvania,
Virginia, and Maryland--and lastly, by the subscription authorized at the recent session of
Congress, of the whole Union.

"Friends and Fellow-laborers. We are informed by the holy oracles of truth, that, at the creation
of man, male and female, the Lord of the universe, their Maker, blessed them, and said unto
them, be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it. To subdue the earth
was, therefore, one of the first duties assigned to man at his creation; and now, in his fallen
condition, it remains among the most excellent of his occupations. To subdue the earth is pre-eminently
the purpose of the undertaking, to the accomplishment of which the first stroke of the spade
is now to be struck. That it is to be struck by this hand, I invite you to witness.--[Here
the stroke of the spade.] [Footnote: Attending this action was an incident which produced a
greater sensation than, any other that occurred during the day. The spade which the President
held, struck a root, which prevented its penetrating the, earth. Not deterred by trifling obstacles
from doing what he had deliberately resolved to perform, Mr. Adams tried it again, with no
better success. Thus foiled, he threw down the spade, hastily stripped off and laid aside his
coat, and went seriously to work. The multitude around, and on the hills and trees, who could
not hear, because of their distance from the open space, but could see and understand, observing
this action, raised a loud and unanimous cheering, which continued for some time after Mr.
Adams had mastered the difficulty.] And in performing this act, I call upon you to join me
in fervent supplication to Him from whom that primitive injunction came, that he would follow
with his blessing, this joint effort of our great community, to perform his will in the subjugation
of the earth for the improvement of the condition of man--that he would make it one of his
chosen instruments for the preservation, prosperity, and perpetuity of our Union--that he would
have in his holy keeping all the workmen by whose labors it is to be completed--that their
lives and their health may be precious in his sight; and that they may live to see the work
of their hands contribute to the comforts and enjoyments of millions of their countrymen.

"Friends and brethren: Permit me further to say, that I deem the duty, now performed at the
request of the President and Directors of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and the Corporations
of the District of Columbia, one of the most fortunate incidents of my life. Though not among
the functions of my official station, I esteem it as a privilege conferred upon me by my fellow-citizens
of the District. Called, in the performance of my service, heretofore as one of the representatives
of my native commonwealth in the Senate, and now as a member of the executive department of
the Government, my abode has been among the inhabitants of the District longer than at any
other spot upon earth. In availing myself of this occasion to return to them my thanks for
the numberless acts of kindness that I have experienced at their hands, may I be allowed to
assign it as a motive, operating upon the heart, and superadded to my official obligations,
for taking a deeper interest in their welfare and prosperity. Among the prospects of futurity
which we may indulge the rational hope of seeing realized by this junction of distant waters,
that of the auspicious influence which it will exercise over the fortunes of every portion
of this District is one upon which my mind dwells with unqualified pleasure. It is my earnest
prayer that they may not be disappointed.

