What ails the boy? His eyes are wild and fierce, and his figure is tossed from side to side
of the narrow bed, while he mutters of his mother, and of a sweet lady, and a gentle child;
and then he presses a parched hand to his brow, and begs them not to heap up the hot coals
there, but to bring him ice, ice; and then he clinches his fist and strikes at the old woman
who has approached him to try to calm him, but she has no power over his ravings, and she perceives
that he has a terrible fever; and then she remembers that he would go supperless to bed the
night before, and that he looked paler and more weary than usual, and she chides herself for
not coming earlier to see if he was ill. She wishes some body would come; it wouldn't do to
leave him alone, and what can she do by herself? There's a knock at the outer door, she thinks--no;
it is only a stray goat that frequents that quarter of the city, and has come for her accustomed
offering of food. She hasn't any heart to stop now, and the disappointed animal goes off again
to try her next neighbor. There's no milk-man, nor baker, nor butcher's boy, nor grocer to
come to her, for they do all their own purchasing at the small shop near, and so the morning
wears on, and the lad grows more delirious, and talks about coffins, and death, and horrible
sights, and just as his grandmother, too frightened to neglect the case longer, locks the door
of his room, and gets her bonnet on to find a doctor, a lady gives a slight rap and enters
the outer door, followed by a young girl. She hears the delirious tones, and immediately knows
that the boy is ill, and the old woman gladly accepts her kind offer to sit by him until she
returns with the physician, though she says it is too much for a lady to consent to, and she
is fearful the boy will do her some harm in his raving mood.

"Don't be troubled," said Mrs. Lincoln, "I'm not afraid;" and she turned the key, and was soon
beside the sufferer with her delicate hand upon his brow, and her tender words soothing his
horrors all away. It was wonderful what a charm there was in the gentle eye that was fixed
upon him, and the soft touch that cooled the burning forehead! Quite an hour she sat in the
same position, breathing out tones that only a mother ever learns, and the lad lay quiet and
calm, looking up into her face with a pleased and satisfied expression, save when she moved
as if to leave him for a moment, the paroxysm would seize him again. The physician came, and
pronounced the disease brain-fever brought on by over-fatigue and exertion, and Kittie stood
with her pitiful glance fastened upon him, and she knew then why he was so distressed the day
before when he passed them as they sat in the carriage, and why the resignation and trust had gone.

He did not know her now, and her mother sent her home with the promise that she should come
often, if he got better and would like to see her; but she remained day after day nursing him
as his own mother would have done, until the mind was clear again, and he was conscious of
her grateful presence. All through the long period of his delirium he had fancied that his
mother's spirit was beside him ministering to his wants, and whenever she went from his sight,
for a moment, he kept up a lamentable moaning until she was there again, and then he would
lay for hours without even a murmur or a sound.

No wonder she felt a mysterious interest in the boy as he grew stronger, and would so often
bend her steps to his humble dwelling to read or talk to him. And Kittie, too, desired no better
reward for good behavior than to spend an hour at poor Archibald Mackie's. They had learned
all about his history now, and he had told Mrs. Lincoln how much she had reminded him of the
dead mother, and what a help her sympathy had been to him in his studies, and they had spoken
of Willie and his troubles, and Archie forgot the sour face that had sent him away from the
carriage, and thought only of the boy's crippled fate, so like his own. Like, and yet unlike--to
the casual observer there was a vast difference between the forlorn, poverty-stricken, ragged
Archie, and the petted, and pampered, and richly-clad Willie; but to the eye of the unwearied
watcher who had witnessed the patience and the goodness of the sick lad, and contrasted it
with the petulance and sinfulness of her nephew, the gifts of God were not unequally distributed.

CHAPTER VI.

It was astonishing how many friends Archie had among the poor--there was Mahan Doughty coming
every day with her apron full of wild flowers which she had wandered a long way to find, and
which she carefully disposed in the little pewter mug that stood on the table beside the lad's
bed--and there was old Patrick Marsh, night and morning, with a fresh cup of milk from his
one precious goat--and Sally Bunt with the only egg her hen-house could produce, and a host
of young voices often at the door with a hushed tone of inquiry concerning the invalid. Oh!
it isn't wealth that brings the greatest and purest joy! Mrs. Fay felt that as she saw the
blessings of an unbought interest pouring in upon the humble inmate of the small hovel, and
she adored more than ever the justice of the Almighty giver who dispenseth with such perfect
measure to every living soul.

The lad loved the flowers, and dwelt upon their beauty as he lay languidly upon his bed, and
they were full of happy teachings to him--better, far better than many a more boisterous exhorter.
He couldn't look upon their wonderous and perfect mechanism with a cold or unbelieving heart;
but his best and warmest affections went upward with their sweet odor, and were acceptable
to Him who had tipped every petal with a heavenly message.

Archie also loved the rough visage of old Patrick, and was convinced of the value of a kind
and generous heart, by the simple offering that was so grateful to his enfeebled state. Patrick
had always looked upon the boy with a pride not unmixed with awe. He could discern the symptoms
of a higher destiny awaiting the lad, and had always treated him with a certain degree of reverence
and respect, and now that the youth was so helpless and weak, the strong arm of the true old
man lifted him back and forth, and held him fondly upon his breast as if he were his own little
child, and so there grew an enduring sympathy between them that was to stay both the tottering
and the crippled.

Sally Bunt, too, standing before the sick boy with the tempting gift in one hand, and a finger
of the other bashfully thrust into her wee mouth, was an object of some affection to Archie,
who would call the little girl up to him, and smooth down her frizzled hair with his tremulous
hand, and thank her so warmly for the one egg, that she would go away with as much joy in her
heart as if she were a queen, and had just tendered her costly offerings, and concluded her
interview with the wisest man.

Nor were the young children who gathered around the house for news of the convalescent, forgotten
or unheeded; but the pale face would appear at the small window to greet them, and the feeble
voice would speak out its sincere gratitude. The hours were very lonely after he began to get
well, yet was confined to his close room; and Archie almost felt as if he could be always so
very, very ill, if it would insure to him the presence of the gentle lady, who came now but
an hour a day to see him.

The old grandmother was obliged to keep closely to her work now that the boy was disabled,
and the father had only the early dawn and the late evening to spend in the sick-room; but
these were pleasant seasons to his child, for they developed the good and the tender in the
man's nature, and diminished the distance between the two, so that the son could again feel
the link that bound his father to the departed.

They could now talk together of his mother and look over the little mementoes that were so
treasured, and both were happier for the hallowed communion.

"You'll lay me by her when I'm gone, lad, won't you?" said the man. "I couldn't sleep elsewhere,
and I've faith to think you'll live to see me buried, much as we all watched for your own last
breath."

The boy didn't like to talk of death now. He had passed through the danger, and had a motive
in wishing to live. There was a great deal to be done--a mighty work, but he felt strong to
do it--and when he was alone he hobbled across the room, and unlocked a small chest and found
a portfolio that had been his mother's, and every day the white pages grew black with marks;
but bright and radiant with the overflowing treasures of a rich and gifted mind. Like a miser
he hid the product, down, down, amid heaps of household rubbish in an uncared for nook by the
chimney, and only drew it forth to add to its value when there was no witness that could betray
him. It was a worthless-looking thing, that old leather portfolio, with the wear and tear of
years upon it; but the boy felt a sort of inward consciousness that the gloomy and dismal hiding-place
beneath the refuse truck was not its irrevocable destiny; and this feeling buoyed him up when
he was inclined to despondency or sadness, and kept him busy with his new labor during many
an otherwise weary and painful hour. And so his days passed on until the pain and the lassitude
left him, and he could again go forth to work amid the erect and strong, with his own frame
bent still lower by his long sad illness.

CHAPTER VII.

"Cousin Willie, I have not seen him for several days, and I do want to go so much!"--besides,
pleaded the little girl, "you promised to walk there with me some day, long ago, and you have
never been there yet."

The cousins were standing together on the green slope, whence they could see the poor boy's
home, and Kittie's attention had been particularly drawn to the spot by a crowd of laborers
that were gathered around the house seemingly engaged in some exciting subject, for they were
gesticulating violently, while the old woman stood without the group wringing her hands, and
now and then applying her apron to her face with a passive sort of grief.

"I do believe that Mr. King, who bought so much land here last week, means to pull down Archie's
cottage!" exclaimed Kittie, looking earnestly at the men, whose motions she had been anxiously
watching for some time. "I heard mamma say she was afraid they would have to leave, and that
would almost kill Archie. Will you go with me, Willie? I must know about it. Only think! to
have to go away from the place where he was born, and, may be, live in a room with ever so
many families, just like little Peter Bell; it is really dreadful!" and the child moved toward
the gate, with her hat in her hand, and her hair waving in the fresh breeze, unconscious of
every thing save that something threatened Archie, in whose interests she was now wholly absorbed.

"It's no use; you mustn't go there now, Kittie," said her cousin, who had, thus far, been but
a silent witness of the scene upon the vacant space, and of the child's unwonted emotion. "What
good do you think a little girl like you could do among so many grown men? I know they mean
to pull down the house, for old Patrick Marsh came to father this morning to see if he would
let Archie live in the little place of ours, just down here by the vegetable-garden. He said
Archie was not able to be confined to a store, and that he would be just the hand to keep the
garden nice."

"Oh! that will be grand!" replied Kittie, clapping her hands and dancing for joy. "I'm almost
glad they will take it down--only he likes it so, living there, and it will take a long time
to get used to another place," added she musing thoughtfully, with her finger upon her lip.
"But it's greener, here, Willie," she continued, bounding along until she stood beside the
spot in question; "and then we can come often to see him, you know. Won't it be nice? Oh! I'm
so happy!"

"Not so fast, Kittie; father left it to me altogether. He knew it would be unpleasant to have
that deformed boy always before me, and so he would give no answer to old Patrick without my
consent; and I don't believe I shall say yes very soon. I'm sorry Jim went away, for I loved
to come down here sometimes while he had the place; he always had something nice to say to me."

"And yet Jim was wicked, dear Willie, and used to beat Brindle, and kick the horses every day;
and I heard him call you names to Bridget once, when you told him to wheel you about the garden.
To be sure he didn't know I was near; but if he had really liked you, he would have felt the
same and acted the same every where. I hope you'll let Archie come, he's so gentle and kind,
and it will be a good deed on your part, too, Willie."

"I don't know," muttered the lad; "it's bad enough to have one cripple about without multiplying
them. People would call this the hospital, or the asylum for the deformed, if they saw many
such objects around here."

"Never mind people, Willie; it's better to feel that you are doing good than to be guided by
what people would say and what people would think. Mamma teaches me to go by that rule, and
I'm sure I'm a great deal happier for it. I never think now of any body when I want to do any
thing, but go right on and do it, if I think it is best. Only let Archie come, and you'll see
what a difference it will make to your life. He is a good boy, and he knows a great deal, too;
more than I can learn for a long, long time, so that it will do us no harm to be with him.
Mamma says she does not care who I associate with, if it is a good and intelligent child. All
she wants is to keep me away from the wicked and ignorant, and she never says no when I ask
to go to Archibald Mackie's; and I'm sure my mother knows!" and Kittie seated herself on the
bench beside the vacant house, waiting for some decision from Willie, who was still wavering.

If he should consent, there would be a constant remembrancer of his own defective person ever
before him; it was quite enough to be sensible of his condition without so palpable an image
haunting the precincts of his home. Then Kittie would be drawn from him to the poor boy, who
had already enlisted more of her sympathies than he had ever done. He would like to please
her, though, and it would be a sort of patronage toward the boy that might exalt himself in
Kittie's estimation.

It was very singular how much influence the child exercised over him. He was pettish and cross
toward her, and made it a great condescension to do any thing that she proposed; and yet, to
thwart her in any one thing made him uneasy and miserable. "What would Kittie think?" and,
"Would it please Kittie?" were questions that he was more willing to put to himself than to
acknowledge to any body else. He could not mistake his cousin's wishes now, and he meant all
the time to gratify her, but the perverse nature would have its vent, and so he said, very
ungraciously,

"There's one thing--the pony needs better care than Jim ever gave it, and perhaps Archie might
be gentle with it, and his father can mind the garden at odd times. I've half a mind to try
him; but he must know his place, and not be thinking himself an equal just because we choose
to benefit him."

Kittie did not care what he did, nor how he got there, so that he really had the permission,
and before Willie had time to alter his mind she had flown out the gate, and was fast nearing
the humble cottage. The workmen had dispersed, and the door and windows were closed, and the
curtains all down, so that the child thought nobody was there, but she went quietly in, as
she had been accustomed, and tapped at Archie's room. There was a sound of voices within, and
she heard the old woman murmuring against the new proprietor of the ground for disturbing her
in her old age; but she was scarcely prepared for such a burst of grief as met her from Archie,
as she entered the room and spoke to him in her soothing gentle manner. His treasures were
lying upon his bed ready for the packing in a small box that he held in his hand, and his books
and clothes were piled up on the table awaiting their final destination.

The child had never seen him so pale and troubled in all his trying illness as he now looked,
and his unconcealed, unsuppressed sorrow frightened her so that she had scarcely a word to
say, until he became somewhat calm, and then she told him of the small house on her uncle's
domains, and the permission he had to occupy it. "It is so much better than this, Archie!"
said she, looking out the window upon the barren space, and around the room at the dingy and
tottering walls. They were both very grateful--the old woman and the boy--but nobody could
tell with what tenacity their affections clung to every splinter of the old building, and what
a bitter step it was, that last one, over the threshold of their lowly home.

CHAPTER VIII.

The morrow had come, and the old woman knew that the word had gone forth against her humble
tenement, and that there could be no appeal, so she quietly betook herself to the vacant cottage
within the grounds of Mr. Lincoln with the feeling that "it was not long that she had to stay
upon the earth anyhow, and it mattered little where she spent her few remaining days."

Archie said nothing to his grandmother about his own movements, but while she went her way
to the new home he turned toward the beautiful cemetery, and there, upon the head of his mother's
grave, he deposited the box of treasures, not with any false or superstitious notion, but from
a sacred and loving impulse. It had seemed such a sacrilege, to him, to remove them from the
spot where her own hand had placed them; besides, there was no hallowed nook in the strange
home, and this was why he sought the most consecrated part of earth for these precious relics.
All about, upon the graves of the poor, he had seen similar tokens, and had observed that even
the most careless and light-hearted passer-by had never stooped to touch what a pious affection
had made sacred. Some, it is true, had looked with contempt upon these simple tributes, and
had suffered the words "heathen fanatics!" to escape their lips; but these same persons would
spend hours before the costly ornaments above a richer body, and find in them no motive but
a commendable and proper respect, whereas the Omniscient could note the pride engraven upon
the one, and the sincere and earnest feeling that marked the other. It didn't matter much to
Archie what any body said or thought. He knew that there his treasures were safe, and he felt
them to be an appropriate monument until his secret wishes respecting his mother's ashes could
be attained, so he left them, and sauntered slowly away. Gay parties, whose only motive in
seeking the dwelling-place of the dead was the gratification of the outward senses, looked
from their luxurious carriages upon the poor hunchback with a careless indifferent feeling
as he passed along with bent frame and serious air, little dreaming of the great soul that
tenanted so feeble a body.

One alone of a merry group paused, and leaned eagerly forward to give some token of recognition
to the lad, whose errand there she could readily guess. "What is it, Kittie?" asked half a
dozen of her light-hearted companions, as she smiled sweetly and bowed to the boy. "It can't
be human;" and then they laughed as the child's sad face looked reproachfully at them. As if
this miserable shell that, however attractive and beauteous now, must, one day, be clothed
in a loathsome corruption, could affect in any way the glorious and undying principle within!
Not "human!" because clad in an uncouth and unsightly garment! as well might we spurn the immortal
spirits for once dwelling in clayey tenements, as to make a mock and derision of those who,
for some wise but hidden purpose, are made to walk this earth with marred and uncomely figures.
Not "human!" Kittie knew how much of humanity there was in the sorrowing heart that was even
now beating with a pure and filial affection, as the weary steps plodded through the pleasant
avenues. She remembered the deep and grateful feeling that was so constantly manifesting itself
toward her gentle mother as she ministered to him on his sick bed, and she could appreciate
his noble, and generous, and loving nature, while others saw but the distorted figure that
came between them and an otherwise undisturbed beauty. Take heart, poor youth! There are kindred
loving eyes on earth that beam even for thee!

CHAPTER IX.

Several weeks have passed, and the old woman takes wonderfully to the new place. She begins
to feel really glad for the change that was so terrible in the anticipation. It is so green
and quiet all about the house--no rude boys shouting in her ear as she steps without the door,
or throwing mud-balls into the open windows; no brazen, neglected girls to call her low names,
or pin dirty rags upon her gown as she walks about the premises; and then every thing within
the walls is so clean and nice--no threatening cracks in the white ceilings; no dilapidated
walls to totter, or worn planks to shake at every tread; no half-starved rats, stalking about
seeking somewhat to devour; and no odious effluvia from the waste lot, or the stagnant pond,
stopping her breath as she looked from door or window. Oh! she could not have believed that
any thing that seemed such an evil would prove so great a good. The breeze came into the clean
rooms so laden with the breath of flowers, and the cheerful notes of birds were all the time
in her ears; and in the quiet evening, she, and the boy, and his father could sit upon the
sill of the door and talk to their heart's content, without one noisy interruption from the
rude crowd, that used to make it so difficult to have one moment's pleasant intercourse. Archie
was more cheerful, too, and took possession of his little chamber with such a manifest delight
that his grandmother had nothing more to desire. His window looked out upon the old quarters,
and he was thus enabled to contrast the beauty and the quiet with the sad unrest of his former
home; and as he noticed the rough group so constantly upon the open space, and remembered how
often he had been the butt of their unfeeling jests and cruel sport, he rejoiced at the high
wall that prevented their ingress into his patron's territory, and felt as if he had indeed
an impregnable fortress to resort to in every emergency.

It was just the spot for meditation, too, and the musty portfolio came forth oftener from its
obscurity, and began to grow really bulky, and that not only in size but in matter.

Nobody would have thought him more than a common lad as he bent to weed the vegetables and
flowers, or brushed down the white pony, or sauntered about the grounds with bowed head, and
hands behind him; but Mrs. Fay had fathomed the secret depths, as from time to time she sought
to draw him out from the reserve in which he was enveloped, and Kittie knew by her own pure
and blessed instincts, all that there was of light and wisdom in the poor boy, who had attracted
her from the very beginning. True, Cousin Willie would take every opportunity to disparage
the lad, but what cared she? It is not so easy to bias the mind of a properly-taught child;
and her own heart told her what was good in the boy and what was evil in her cousin. As for
Willie, he walked about like some evil genius, making the deformity of the body more conspicuous
by the deformity of the soul, and casting a huge and ugly shadow over the lovely home that
God had so graciously given him. There was a constant antagonism between him and the poor lad;
not that Archie ever gave occasion of offense, or encouraged the antipathy that he could perceive
in Willie; but his patience, and gentleness, and intelligence, were a constant reproach to
his rich young neighbor, who so continually wearied his friends by fretfulness and ill-humor,
and who spurned all the efforts of his tutor, never trying to improve the privileges lavished
upon him, but deeming it very hard that he should be expected to confine himself to books--"As
if it were not punishment enough to carry about a repulsive body!" he would say.

Ah! quite enough. This Archie felt as he applied himself diligently to the task of adorning
and embellishing his higher and imperishable nature. And the lady and the child had learned
to look at that only, so that they really forgot often the outer man, as the soul-lit eyes
sparkled and beamed upon them when they talked together. He did not forget it, and so it served
its true purpose, making him humble, and keeping under the majesty of his spirit that might
otherwise have grown into a revolting and self-sufficient pride. It is so vain to struggle
against these fetters and restraints; God knows what we need, and it may be ever the mightiest
souls that are curbed while on earth by some physical infirmity.

CHAPTER X.

Patrick Marsh was a cooper, and lived down close to the water's edge in a shanty of his own
construction. He had taken possession of the spot long before there were any signs of human
habitation near, and nobody had ever doubted his right of ownership. Yet as he beheld the slow
but sure encroaches upon his vicinage he began to tremble even for the meager handful of earth
on which his domicil stood, and used often to go up to Archie's to condole with the old lady
when her own little resting-place was threatened.

Now he was filled with wrath as he passed the heaps of boards, stone, and rubbish, and viewed
the preparations for the erection of a large and noble mansion, and he strode hastily on, that
he might effervesce in the old woman's presence, for he wished to convince her of his interest
and displeasure, and a sober pace would have brought back the habitual placidity to the old
man's heart. It was not natural for him to cherish the slightest degree of malice or resentment,
and the very consciousness that he was out of his usual way distressed and vexed him, so that
when he reached the quiet cottage, it was delightfully soothing to find the grandmother contentedly
sitting knitting--work in hand, beside the door in no need of comfort, if one might judge by
the cheerful, happy expression.

"Such a blessing, Betty," said he--they were children together--"such a blessing to find you
so easy and nateral-like. I begin to believe the Lord's hand is raly in it all, and that He
always gives as good as He takes. I used to think there wasn't no place like your old 'un;
but it wasn't a touch to this purty spot!" and he gazed about him with evident satisfaction,
stroking the hounds that loved to wander from their young master's presence to the sunny room,
where there was always a kind word and a gentle pat for them.

"Archie's better, too," said the old woman with an exultant chuckle, as she shuffled to the
stairs-door to call her grandson.

Patrick didn't think him better, as he noticed his flushed cheek and trembling, fluttering
frame, and he held his hand a long time in his own, now counting the quick pulse, now pressing
it warmly and fondly.

"You'll leave the books, my boy, and be more in the garden, won't you?" said he in an earnest,
anxious tone. "Depend upon it that's the only thing for you."

Archie did not know what he meant by the "only thing," neither could he tell why Patrick went
so suddenly out brushing his sleeve across his eyes, all the way to the gate; but the circumstance
weighed with him, and it made him jump from his study so soon as the least symptom of weariness
came, and resort to his out-of-door occupations. Kittie had gone off to boarding-school and
the boy sadly missed the white figure that he used to watch so fondly for in the walk that
led to his cottage. She would not come again for many a year, and there was loneliness and
desolation in the very thought; but so it must be, and he strove to find solace in his books,
and with his plants; but every thing recalled the past. His books were thrown aside for awhile,
because she was not there to question him as to their contents, and the flowers were hueless
and scentless, since the eye that loved so to look upon them, and the sense that delighted
so in their sweet odor were gone. Willie, too, missed the gentle cousin that bore his caprices
so patiently, and he murmured at the decree that banished her from his presence. "She knew
enough to please him, and what more could they want?" "That was all such a little mouse as
she was good for!"

The "little mouse," though, made a great hole in the house, and there was nothing in all the
big world that could fill it acceptably to the lad, and so it remained empty until the school-days
should be accomplished, save that her shadow was ever there, palpable--to the vision of the
two lads at least. How differently was she cherished!--by the one as a grateful sort of appendage
that contributed vastly to his comfort in various ways--to the other as a guardian presence,
inciting him to every virtue and grace, and sanctifying and spiritualizing his whole being.
Strangest of all mysteries, the transforming power of that wondrous and precious essence!

Thanks be to Him who has so diffused it over this lower world that there is no spot that may
not be akin to heaven!

CHAPTER XI.

Mrs. Lincoln's time was wholly taken up in inventing new pleasures for her son, so that she
had not one moment for the poor youth at the foot of the garden, who, but for the benevolence
and kindness of Kittie's mother, would have led a weary life of it indeed.

Archie's father had, at last, laid down both trowel and pipe, and was taking his long rest
beside the dead wife. The boy had purchased a small lot in a secluded and romantic part of
the cemetery, and there he had both parents placed, in one wide grave, with the box of treasures
between them, and above them a large white cross with a simple inscription. The lot was fenced
around with a hawthorn hedge, and here and there a rose bush grew luxuriantly. There was room
for himself and for the old grandmother who was now terribly decrepit, so that she was unable
to take any care of the house, and Patrick Marsh had consented to let his little shanty and
come, with good Molly his wife, to look after the lad's comfort, for they had no child, and
Archie was nearer to them than any living being. Good Molly was of rough and ungainly exterior,
but within, the very impersonation of tenderness and love, and this happy and blessed temperament
had gained for her so flattering an appellation wherever she was known. Little children would
gather around her in the street and hold on by her apron or gown, fondling and caressing her
hands, and even her feet, as if she were some good angel--and so indeed was she to many a lone
and forsaken one, who had found care, and food, and shelter, beneath her lowly but hospitable
roof. It wasn't strange then that, with such a heart, Good Molly should consent to leave the
home that was endeared to her by a thousand associations in order to watch over the failing
and imbecile old woman and her diseased and lonely grandson.

Neither she nor Patrick felt themselves competent to mingle in the youth's higher and holier
sympathies; they were conscious that they were of altogether a different mold; but there were
bodily wants that none knew better how to meet than the nice housewife, whose skill in such
matters few could contest. The dainty bit was ever tempting, and the linen was pure and white,
and the neat chamber inviting even to the most fastidious taste, so that there would have been
nothing wanting to Archie's comfort or joy were it not for the void that but one could fill.
"It was foolish to think of her!" that he so often repeated to himself, yet think of her and
dream of her he did, and all the time grew thinner and thinner, and paler and paler, until
he seemed some ghostly shadow moving about the grounds. Five years had passed since she came
down the green slope and put her little hand in his to bid him a long good-by. It was the summer
time, and he remembers that the old elm under which he sat was just in the fullness and glory
of its foliage; the hour, too, is distinctly in his memory; the dreary and sad twilight, and
the breeze's soft play over the waving grass, and the hum of the insects, and the murmur of
the city's noise that came pleasantly from the distance, like the moving of far-off waters.
Oh! these things can never die out of his remembrance. How can they! Doesn't he cherish them
religiously, coming always at the vesper time to the same spot to live them over and over again?

Even through the dreary winters he but closes his eyes and the verdure is there, and the beauty.

No need of that to-night, however, for the chilly season has again passed away, and the old
elm is rich in her emerald robes, and the breath of the soft winds is upon him, and the same
murmur in his ear. There is only the small hand and the gentle words wanting to make it all
a precious reality. Is it his fancy that at this moment brings them so palpably to him? Is
the vision of a graceful figure, and a white dress, and a pure face beaming upon him with the
lovely expression only a delusion of his excited mind! Or is it really her own voice that comes
to him so earnestly. "Oh! speak, Archie, pray speak! don't you remember Kittie?" It was of
no use to call upon him, the shock was too much for his delicate organization, and whiter than
the spotless muslin was the brow that the maiden loved, as she supported the drooping head,
and strove to recall the fainting breath.

His heart beat more painfully than ever as the warm life-blood flowed evenly again, for that
one moment had told him that he loved, and the revelation was as death. To linger upon the
earth, to see and hear her continually, and to press back the deep and springing emotions that
were ever welling up toward her. How could he do it! it were worse than death itself! And yet
he spoke calmly and naturally as she walked with him to the cottage, and quietly watched her
as she talked with the old people; but the light in his heart went out as she passed over the
threshold into the stilly night--and the struggle was a victorious one.

Kittie was pondering upon it all--the agitation, and the pallor, and the overwhelming joy,
and a secret delight filled her soul as she sought again the tree. There was no wavering of
purpose as the vow went forth from that same consecrated place to be true to the convictions
that she now felt. How long a period had elapsed since she stood there before. She is no more
forgetful of it than Archie, and she draws forth from her bosom a tress of raven hair, and
looks upon it while it is bathed in the moonlight, wondering, meantime, how she had dared to
cut it from his head as he leaned against this same tree so long, long ago. True, he did not
know it, it was so slyly done; but nothing could tempt her to a like act again. Not that she
is sorry for the deed--ah! no. This little talisman will ever be most precious unto her. But
the brow seemed so hallowed now; there was a mystic light upon it, as though a beam from Heaven
were shining directly there, and a superstitious awe crept over the heart of the young maiden
as she remembered the cold dews that her hand had felt as she stroked back the clustering locks.

CHAPTER XII.

The beauty, and luxury, and lavish tenderness that had continually surrounded Willie during
his cousin's absence, brought no corresponding loveliness, and richness, and gratitude within,
and Kittie found it more difficult to bear with the querulous, fitful temper than before her
long separation from him. Day after day he would require her to sit with him reading aloud
some foolish and distasteful thing which was suited to his weak and uncultivated intellect;
or she must walk or ride, as he pleased, giving up her own occupations and plans whenever they
interfered with his amusement. Time and again the question would recur to her, "Why should
I give myself up to the effort to do good, where it is so evident that I can do nothing?" and
then her aunt's kindness in giving her mother and herself so welcome a home when they were
deprived of their earthly supporter, and the wish to make some return for all the love bestowed
upon her in her uncle's house, induced her to strive with renewed diligence to influence her
cousin to a holy and consistent life. He had so far been won by her courteous example as to
treat Archie with respect, and even with a degree of cordiality, whenever they met; but the
low-born, yet noble youth, felt the difference between his patronizing regard and the ingenuous
and free sympathy that the cousin manifested, and his dark eyes would flash with a suppressed
and hidden fire that nothing could subdue like the gentle glance that so often sought his.

Was it only compassion for his terrible infirmity that tinged the maiden's cheek and gave fervor
to her every tone, as she met him about the garden walks, or in the humble cottage? Was it
only the loving and earnest nature, that could not help its warm and gushing impulses, that
caused the tear to suffuse her eye at every wound occasioned his sensitive heart by the thoughtless
Willie? Was it naught but a generous interest that led her every day to his humble home, with
her books or drawings, to ask aid of her uncle's protégée? Or was he inflicting upon himself
a needless suffering, besides quenching the brightness of that young spirit which he would
fain die to save from sorrow? Could it be that by one spoken word his life and health might
flow back upon him with new and refreshing vigor? The risk was too great. It might banish forever
from his sight the only object that made that life endurable; and so it remained unsaid, preying
upon the vitals and pressing him onward to the blessed haven of rest--rest from all doubts,
rest from all infirmities and sufferings, rest from all painful labor, both physical and mental,
glorious, perfect, enduring rest!

He felt the change that was drawing him from earth, and rejoiced in it. It were better that
she should think of him as a spirit, divested of the covering that made him a loathsome mortal!
Even if he could know that her every affection clung to him, he would pray to go hence before
her eyes could be so cleared of the mists of love as to see the hideousness of his imperfections.
He had seen her shudder as her cousin's arm was placed around her; and was he not more repulsive
still? Oh, how could he ever dream of allying himself to an angel?

The very thought of his "vanity" and forgetfulness was humiliating, and Archibald Mackie shut
himself up in his chamber, and suffered, and prayed, and struggled alone; and came forth with
a radiant brow, and a cheerful, peaceful heart. He had done with the things of this life. The
dearest and best he had dropped from his grasp, and now it was so easy to part with the rest.
The dreams of his youth had made his pathway green, and kept his mind off the real evils. What
if they were but transient and fading visions? They had been of sufficient duration and brightness
to cheer him in many an otherwise dreary walk; and they had not been without their influence
upon the inner soul that perchance would have sunk into an utter despondency and gloom but
for these incentives to energy and action.

No more dreaming now; but a constant looking forward to the end of life's journey, and a steady
and unwearied preparation for the final summons.

CHAPTER XIII.

The summer was unspeakably beautiful to the dying youth. To sit in his easy-chair beside the
low window of his loved chamber, and let his eyes wander over the greenness and glory of nature,
while his thoughts went upward to the Paradise of immortal joys, or to rove languidly about
the grounds of his patron, supported by the kind old man whose tenderness and care were ever
ready, or to recline upon a couch beside the door while Kittie Fay talked to him in her pleasant
sympathetic way, or read to him in a low soft tone--these things made up the sum of his waning
life, and imparted a quiet sort of rapture to every moment. Mahan Doughty--now grown a large
and bashful girl--came again with some simple flowers, that recalled to him the distant years,
and Sally Bunt stood often beside him, not as of old with the newly-laid egg; but with nice
broth from some favorite chicken, whose head was as nothing, when the word came to the old
playmate that Archie was fading away. A great gulf had separated them since he lived on the
plain, for none of his former associates had dared venture an intimacy after his removal within
the precincts of the "great house;" but an undying sympathy made a bridge over the wide gulf,
and they crossed and recrossed fearlessly, to minister to their friend.

The imbecile old grandmother played with the thin fingers of her idol boy, and laughed with
an idiotic chuckle as she looked upon the white face, calling him her "gentleman," and wondering
"how he came to have such a delicate skin, when his father was brown and tawny."

Patrick and Molly discussed the case of the sick youth as often as they were left alone, with
disconsolate and saddened hearts; and all that could cheer him with the words of a comfort
which they were far from feeling in their own spirits, were the mother and daughter, who had
learned to look away from themselves in every grief and sorrow, that they might be a blessing
to others. The day had been terribly oppressive, and both had been watching the youth as he
lay fainting and exhausted upon his couch. Not one moment had they ceased fanning him gently
lest the weak breath would take its flight; but now a refreshing breeze was stirring the locks
upon his temples, and imparting to him a little strength, so that Kittie could leave for a
few moments to attend to her cousin Willie, whose demands were more importunate upon her than
ever, since her time was required in the sick presence.

"How is Archie, to-night, Kittie?" asked he, as his cousin stepped lightly over the threshold,
and seated herself on the sofa beside him.

"He seems to revive a little," said she; "Doctor Fincke thinks he may yet linger for a few
days, but I am fearful it can not be--to me he seems very weak and low."

"I am quite impatient for the end, Kittie," said Willie, in a light and careless tone, "for
I have a great deal to say to you, and you are so taken up with this young man that I really
have not one moment of your time, lately. It seems as if there might be a proper nurse found,
without your acting in that capacity."

"It is my pleasure, cousin Willie," said Kittie, in a gentle and subdued voice. "Nothing could
induce me to lose the few last words of this dying saint. He seems already to reflect the glory
of the upper land, so that every one around is blessed by its influence. Oh! Willie, if you
would only learn from so pure an example to make this life but the stepping-stone to a better
and higher being, instead of taking it for the only good, and giving up every thought to it,
it would be such a gain to yourself, and such a joy to us all!"

"Wouldn't you like to go with me to see Archie?" continued she, a moment after, as her cousin
had taken no notice of her appeal. "He often speaks very kindly of you, and I'm sure it would
give him pleasure to know that you are truly his friend."

"But Kittie, what's the use! You know I don't care any thing about the young man, and that
it will be quite a relief to me when he is no longer there to keep you from me. I have never
been to the cottage since he occupied it, and I don't mean to annoy myself with the sight of
him now. It would give me the horrors to see him die!"

Kittie did not urge the matter, but she felt how little there was in the calm of that Christian
soul to excite any gloom or terror in the beholder, and so soon as she could get away from
her cousin she resumed her seat beside the sick bed. She had a right to be there now--not a
word had been spoken to tell her so; but the gentle heart revealed itself to her in a silent,
yet none the less intelligible way, and her own responded warmly and heartily.

CHAPTER XIV.

"Molly, I dreamed of Kittie Fay last night," said old Patrick, as he drew his chair up to his
wife. "It seemed as if she was weeping over a green grave, and as she stood by it she was dressed
all in white, like an angel, and all about her was nothing but a barren waste. It made me sad
like to see her there, wife, and I went over the dark space that lay between me and her to
try to get her away, but no, she wouldn't stir a step, and kept stooping to water the grass
and flowers, and then she pointed down to the grave, and then up to heaven, and then laid her
white hand upon her heart. I woke up after that, Molly; but that dream won't leave me, I keep
thinking on't, and I'm most of a mind that these young folks haven't been so long together
for nothing. I believe, Molly, that there's a reason for our boy's fading away from us so all
of a sudden, and for the pale face that Miss Kittie carries with her."

"No, no, Patrick, you mustn't be so full of your whims," replied the good wife, in a whisper,
as she pointed to the half-open door, through which they could see the young maiden bending
over the couch to minister to Archie. "You've forgot the station, man, you've forgot the station;
it is kind and natural for her to interest her dear heart in the sick lad; but depend upon
it there's nothing deeper--greater would be the sorrow if there was, Pat! Besides," she added,
after a moment's silence, "there's her cousin Willie, they say, as much as engaged to her!"

"Fudge!" returned the old man, getting really excited; "a jackass of a fellow as ain't fit
to hold a candle to our Archie? Never you fear, Molly, there'll nothing come of that; I'd sooner
see her in her coffin first!"

"But you take it hard, man," answered his wife. "Don't you know that they've been children
together, and it isn't as if she could see him with your eyes; besides, he's got a power o'
money, Patrick, and that covers up many a blemish."

"I tell ye, Molly, a mint of gold wouldn't make any difference to the feelings o' that girl.
Her heart's with the dying lad, and, mark my words, she'll never marry that simple cousin;
but she'll cherish the green grave just as she did in the dream, and her thoughts'll be up
in heaven with the absent spirit."

"It will be desput lonesome here when he's gone, Patrick," sighed the old woman; "but I s'pose
it's our duty to take care of the grandmother as long as she lives!"

"To be sure, to be sure, Molly! We'll do well what we've undertaken, but I long to be back
in the old shanty by the water, I kinder miss the old ways. Nothing but the lad would ever
have brought me here, and he's fast going; it won't be many mornings that we can sit and look
in even upon his sick-bed, Molly."

They couldn't talk about it any more, but they watched the old grandmother as she clutched
at the shadows that the waving foliage made upon her white gown as she sat in the outer door,
and they wondered why it could not be that she should go first, and the lad be spared them.
It wasn't any good that she could do upon the earth, it wasn't any joy that she could ever
again give! Truly, God's ways are not as our ways, nor His thoughts as our thoughts! Patrick
and Molly could trust Him, even though the dark cloud was spreading itself over their way,
and the sunshine was soon to be wholly removed from their dwelling.

CHAPTER XV.

The little room was darkened, and the still form was freed from all its pains--no more fear
of the ridicule of an unfeeling world--no more struggling upward toward a tottering eminence--no
more sighings after a higher sympathy than a narrow sphere can insure--no more tremblings and
palpitations lest the desired good vanish from the sight--no more sinning nor sorrowing; but
the quiet figure lay peaceful and still beneath the pure covering, with the bright flowers
above and loving hearts around. There are no outbursts of anguish in the presence of the hallowed
dead, but a calmness that speaks of the hope of a resurrection. The mother and her daughter
are alone with the departed, and, as they look upon his placid features, Kittie recalls the
time when she met him, years ago, in the scorching noontide heat, and contrasted his forlorn
and pitiable condition with the pampered and luxurious state of her cousin Willie, and, as
her mother's words recur to her, "Perhaps not a pity that he has not Willie's blessings, dear
Kittie." She echoes in her own heart, "not a pity, not not a pity!"

Oh! no; the pity now is all for the high-born lad, whose privileges are all wasted and perverted,
and could she choose for herself one of these two lives, she would not hesitate to take the
lowly cottage on the plain, with all its sad inconveniences and distasteful accompaniments,
with the exalted Christian mind, rather than the glory, and beauty, and ease of the great house,
with the weakened intellect and the brutish soul.

There is a small trunk in Archie's chamber, with a card nailed upon the top, and the inscription,
"Miss Kitty Fay;" and Patrick lifts it reverently, with no vain curiosity, and carries it to
the "great house." He knows that it contains many a manuscript that helped to dry up the fount
of life. They are all dedicated to Kittie, who inspired them; and it is a great comfort to
be reading them over while he is lying there as if asleep and unable to speak. They make every
thing plain to her concerning the past, and they confirm her in the vow that was made beneath
the old elm, long ago. It is such a treasure, that precious legacy; so filled with beautiful
thoughts, and so free from earthly dross. Besides, it is all her own, sacred from the world.
No other eye has ever seen it, and nobody else can ever know the secret workings of the great
mind that is no longer clogged by the crippled body.

The old leather portfolio has come to a blessed use--the comforting and supporting the afflicted.
Much need is there, too, of comfort where the wound is so deeply hidden. Nobody knows Kittie's
secret; not even her fond mother discerns more than a natural solemnity at the presence of
death. It is so hard to go about the house with a cheerful face and an apparent indifference,
when the full heart would fain express itself freely. But harder still was it for Kittie to
be subjected to her cousin's importunities at a time when she had scarcely room for a common
sympathy for him.

She had walked out alone, and had sought the old elm; it was so soothing to be there, with
no eye to observe her emotion. Why should Willie seek her then of all times in the world? and
for such a purpose!

"It can not be, Willie--you know it can not be," said she, in firm and decided accents.

"But I have set my heart upon it, Kittie," replied her cousin. "You see, we have been much
together, and I am used to your ways, and I don't think I could easily find any body else that
would exactly suit me, so I've concluded it is best to have the matter arranged immediately.
There is nothing in the way but this funeral, and that will be over to-morrow, and what do
you say to Monday week, Kittie? Will that be soon enough, my birdie?" and the too confident
youth drew near and reached out his arm to encircle her waist, but she was no longer there.

"Soon enough!" What! to be wedded to a compound of the most hideous deformity! "Soon enough!"
To blot out the memory of the pure and immortal one, and to link herself to a revolting and
miserable object! It were better to be lying peacefully beneath the green earth than to walk
about a living corpse, with but the semblance of animation. What mockery it seemed to her as
she stood by the silent dead! The pet name, too, was almost an insult to the pure and loving
heart that had smothered its springing affections, until the life also was crushed and gone.
Oh! that she could tear out the remembrance of her cousin's weakness and folly so that she
need abate nothing of her accustomed kindness and attention. Henceforth she must withhold from
him even the natural sympathy which his infirmities demand, and perhaps be forced to add another
tinge to the bitterness of his fate, by a constant coldness and indifference toward him.

Poor child! the ills of life come seldom singly, yet how much greater is the might that can
rise above and conquer a complication of sorrows. There was strength for Kittie in the contemplation
of the serene face that was before her--so free from every shadow that had darkened it when
animate. There were exhortations to patience in its hallowed expression, and lessons upon the
nothingness of our temporary trials, and inspiring promises of the end--that glorious end that
will compensate for all our sad beginnings. No wonder Kittie Fay was more than ever tranquil
as she stepped again within the circle of her home; and no wonder the wound that lay deeply
hidden was unsuspected there.

CHAPTER XVI.

"Come, come Archie, my son, don't be fooling with your old grandmother. What does it all mean?
Is it a wedding, boy? Ah, yes, I mind me now; it was just so when your father was married,
this day forty years ago--posies all about, on the dresser, on the bed--roses and pansies,
and 'bundance o' green stuff every where," and the unconscious idiot touched the cold hands,
and put her arms around the stiff neck, laying her wrinkled face to the youth's cheek, and
then she would dress his hair with the flowers, weaving fantastic garlands, and twining them
in and out, amid the damp locks. It was thus they found her--old Patrick and Molly--as they
entered the silent room on the morning of Archie's funeral. "Is the bride ready?" asked she,
unwinding her arms from the lad, and smoothing down her dress, as if to make herself presentable,
"because," she continued, advancing toward Molly, and pointing to the couch, "he's waiting
for her. 'Tis a beautiful home they'll have, I never dreamed of any thing so pretty; but he
whispered it to me--golden streets, and pearls, and rivers of water, and trees with all manner
of fruit--'tis worth while to be his bride! I never thought our Archie'd come to all this good!"

Molly put the flowers back in their places, and composed the limbs once more, and then gently
led the old woman to her arm-chair in the outer room, where she relapsed into her quiet dosing
way until all was over. Once only she looked up as they bore the remains from the dwelling,
and asked in a deprecating voice, "why Archie didn't take her with him;" but his name did not
escape her after that. The rest of her days were a blank.

Close beside his mother in a green grave they placed the crippled form, that was to come forth
in the resurrection, perchance the more glorified for its earthly trial. Groups of ragged urchins
from the common were there, respectful and solemn. Old playmates that were now men and women
gathered around the coffin and wept as they remembered the past. Sally Bunt and Mahan Doughty
were among them, but the sincerest mourners--save one--were Patrick and Molly, who had watched
the young man from his infancy up, and had placed all their hopes upon him. Bowed and broken,
the old man returned to the desolate cottage to minister to the doting grandmother, whose only
claims upon him were that she was allied to the dead. Day after day would he and Molly ascend
to the little chamber to spend all their weary leisure. There were his books, just as he had
left them, with one opened and turned down upon the table. There were his clothes, hung by
his own hand upon the wall, and there were the pictures with which his native talent had adorned
the room.

Oh! was not the deep affection of the two simple hearts that beat so fondly to his memory,
a worthy tribute? Is there more value in mines of gold and silver, or in the adoration of a
fickle multitude, than in the unobtrusive homage of those loving and true, though humble ones.

Every effort of his untaught genius was to them as wondrous and beautiful as if from the pencil
of a Raphael or Titian. Every object of his pleasure or regard was treasured as a sacred thing.
Even the withered flowers that had bedecked his death-couch were preserved with pious care,
and no unloving hand could touch a single article that had once felt the impress of the now
palsied fingers. There was still one solace for the bereaved old couple, and that was the frequent
visits of Kittie, who seemed to them linked in a mysterious manner with the departed.

There was a real pleasure to the three, to speak together of the absent one whose exalted merit
they only knew; and the maiden grew more calm and resigned from the intercourse. Yet the grave
in the beautiful cemetery was none the less green in her memory, and the white hand pointed
none the less often from it to her heart, and thence upward to heaven.

THE END.