The Baldwin Library

RMB

University of Florida

FROM THE LIBRARY OF

PAUL & VIRGINIA CROWLEY

OUR GIFT.

BOSTON:

ABEL TOMPKINS, NO. 38 CORNHILL.

1851.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850,

By ABEL TOMPKINS,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.

DEDICATION.

"We offer no words of inspired thought, No gems from the mines of wisdom brought, No flowers
of language to deck the page, No borrowed glories of Muse or Sage; But an offering simple and
pure we bring, And a wreath of wild roses around it fling; Not culled from the shades of enamelled
bowers, But watered by love's own gentle showers. In tones of affection we here would speak;
To waken an echo of love we seek; We mingle our tears for the early dead, To the land of spirits
before us fled. While a moral we humbly would here entwine With the flowers we lay on affection's
shrine, We pray that the light of religion may dawn, To brighten our pathway each coming morn.
Then with love for each other OUR GIFT we bring, And love for the memories that round it cling,
And trust in the hopes that are lighted here, To burn with new brightness each passing year.
And as Time moves on with unceasing tread, And the flowers of youth are withered and dead,
May no sigh of regret to the past be given, As it peacefully fades in the light of Heaven."

PREFACE.

"OUR GIFT" has been prepared as a token of affection for our Sunday school Pupils, and it is
hoped that it may serve a similar purpose in the hands of other teachers. It has been said,
that "He who gives his thought, gives a part of himself." It was this idea that suggested the
offering we now bring. We do not claim for it especial excellence. We are aware that its pages
have not uniform merit. When we state that they are from the pens of twenty-five different
teachers, few of whom are accustomed to write for the public eye, we offer the only apology
for the imperfections of the work, which, in our judgment, the circumstances of the case demand.
If this explanation shall not cause the critic to throw the work aside, we would welcome him
to whatever pleasure he may find in its perusal. Of the defects which it contains, we prefer
to share jointly the responsibility; and have, therefore, omitted to attach signatures to the
several articles. The shorter paragraphs, scattered through the work, embody ideas from several
contributions which have been excluded by its narrow limits. Such as it is, we present it to
the public generally, and especially to our pupils, as a slight token of the ardent love we
bear them, humbly praying that the moral lessons it contains may find a place in their hearts,
and contribute to the formation of such a character as involves within itself the highest form
of blessing.

TEACHERS OF THE SCHOOL STREET UNIVERSALIST SUNDAY SCHOOL, BOSTON.

CONTENTS.

Dedication Preface Remember me Honor thy Parents Uncharitable Judgment Boys become Men To the
Portrait of Father Ballou Susan's Repentance and Appeal to her Elder Sister Little Emma The
Old Sabbath Schoolroom The Hunter, and his Dog Jowler--A Fable Take Care of your Books My Niece
Teachers' Library Scholars' Library Agatha Responsibility Duty of Parents A Scholar's Remembrance
of the Pic-Nic of 1850 Rain Drops Obey the Rules The Ways of Providence To Alberta The Discontented
Squirrel--A Fable School Street Society The Example of the Bee The Morning Walk True Satisfaction
Female Education One Family Summer Thoughts--A Fable A Talk with the Children Uncle Jimmy The
Child's Dream of Heaven The Influence of Sabbath Schools Memory Selfishness Trouble Revenge
A Biographical Sketch The Sabbath School Boys Fear of Death Ill Temper Reading A Sabbath School
Excursion Christ and Duty

OUR GIFT.

"REMEMBER ME."

"Remember me!" How swift the tide
  Of memory glideth o'er the past;
Those sunny hours so quickly sped,
  Perchance a few with clouds o'ercast.
But memory hath more lasting flowers,
  Which Time's rude hand can ne'er efface,
The sweets we cull from friendship's bowers,
  The gems affection's altar grace.

"Remember me!" In youth's bright morn
  Those simple words so lightly spoken,
Far into future years may reach,
  And wake a spell which ne'er is broken.
A star to gleam in Memory's sky,
  A line on Memory's page to glow,
A smile to offer at her shrine,
  Or tears which from her springs shall flow.

"Remember me!" As one by one
  The cherished ties of earth are torn,
The magic spell which Memory weaves,
  Shall long in kindred hearts be worn.
And when the last farewell is said,
  A solace to each heart shall be
The memory of that love which spoke
  In parting tones, "Remember me!"

HONOR THY PARENTS.

CONVERSATION I.

"Honor thy father and thy mother."

"Well, Clara," said Mary, as they left the church, "shall we go now and take a walk before
we go home? Look, there are William Johnson and George Field waiting to see which way we shall
turn, in order to accompany us."

"Not this afternoon," answered Clara, "I think we had better go home."

They continued their way homeward until they reached the street where Clara lived, and were
about to part, when Mary asked her companion at what time she would meet her the next morning
to take a long walk, adding that William and George would go with them.

"I will ask mother," replied Clara, "and if she is willing, I will meet you at six o'clock."

"How is this," said Mary, "you never used to say you would ask your mother; besides, there
can be no possible objection to our going to take a walk."

"True," rejoined Clara, "there can be no objection to our taking a walk; but we have never
told our mothers that William and George are in the habit of going with us."

"Well, I don't see any great harm in their going with us," continued Mary, with a tone which
indicated that she did not see any harm whatever in it.

"Perhaps there is not, and yet, Mary, I have thought that there might be; therefore, I prefer
to speak to my mother about it."

"And pray, Miss Clara, what has made you so conscientious all at once?"

"I will tell you, Mary. You recollect that on the last Sabbath, our pastor took for his text,
the fifth commandment."

"Yes, I do."

"Well, something which he said, caused me to think more about these words than I ever did before;
and the more I think of them, the more convinced I am, that we do not consider and reflect
upon them so much as we ought to."

"Let me see," said Mary, "Honor thy father and thy mother;"--"Well, I am sure I do honor my
father and my mother; I obey them when they give me a command, and I love them with all my
heart. What more can I do?"

"So I reasoned before, but when I sat down alone in my chamber, a good many things came to
my mind, to convince me that I was wrong."

"Well," added Mary, "let me have the benefit of your reflections."

"Why, in this very instance of going to walk, I had always asked my mother's consent, and she
had given it; but I never told her where we went, or who went with us, which now appears to
me wrong. Our mothers are much older than we are, and have had much more experience than we
have, and there may be wrong in doing what appears to us quite harmless."

"For the life of me," interrupted Mary, "I cannot think there can possibly be any harm in such
a slight occurrence. However, say nothing to your mother to-night; but go with us to-morrow
morning, and then you can mention it to her, and see what she says."

"I beg your pardon, Mary; but you said just now, you could not see what possible harm there
could be in so slight an occurrence, and yet your request to put off mentioning this to my
mother, shows that you have some misgivings on the subject."

Mary reflected for a moment. "Clara," said she, "if you have no objection, I will go home with
you, and hear what your mother will say."

"I shall be delighted to have you," was the answer.

Mary Winthrop and Clara Spaulding had arrived at the ages of fourteen and fifteen years, a
time of life which is peculiarly critical for girls. At no age do they more require the advice
of a mother, and at no age are they less inclined to seek it. This would seem to be a natural
disinclination, so prevalent is it. These were both good girls, but, as may be judged from
the conversation we have just related, Clara was the more thoughtful, while Mary was very apt
to act without much reflection. She possessed, however, this noble trait; she was always ready
to acknowledge her error, when it was pointed out to her, and would endeavor to avoid repeating it.

Mrs. Spaulding had reached home when the girls entered. She was a woman of excellent sense,
and a mother indeed to her children. Mary frankly told her all the conversation which had passed
between Clara and herself, and then waited for her opinion.

"It makes me truly happy," said Mrs. S., "that you have come to me in this free and open manner;
and I am very glad that my dear Clara has reflected so much upon the text. In itself, there
is not much harm in taking a walk with William Johnson and George Field, and yet it is not
proper for you to do so, without the knowledge and consent of your parents. William and George
are not bad boys, and perhaps would be called by people generally, good ones; still, I have
remarked a certain levity in their manner, which if only occasional, might be called good humor,
but which, recurring as it does at all times and on all occasions, the Sabbath not excepted,
makes me fear that their training at home is not what I should desire to have it. For this
reason, Mary, I am not willing that Clara should be often in their company, nor do I think
your mother would differ from me, should you ask her."

"I wonder," said Mary, "how Clara came to think of this slight circumstance of a walk, in connection
with the commandment, 'Honor thy father and thy mother.'"

"I thought she had sufficiently explained that, herself," replied Mrs. Spaulding. "I wish both
of you, and not only you, but all young persons, would think a good deal more on this subject.
I remember when I was of your age, that many things occurred which I omitted to mention to
my mother, but which it would have been much better for me, if I had told her. Sometimes these
concerned my bodily health, and I am sure that if I had informed her of them at the time, I
should now have a much better constitution than I possess. At other times, I neglected to ask
her advice about what I thought were small matters; but the result proved that I should have
been saved much trouble had I consulted her."

"In fact," continued Mrs. S., "the command to honor thy father and thy mother, is far more
comprehensive, and exacts many more duties, than the young, and, I am sorry to say, the old
too, are willing to recognize. The young are too apt to think, when they get into their teens,
that there are a great many things about which there is no need of asking their parents' advice
and counsel; that they know, then, about as well as their parents what they ought to do; and,
by the time they get to be eighteen or nineteen years of age, a good deal better. But, my dear
children, it is not so. And the young who reason and act thus, will soon cease to honor their
father and mother. No! The Almighty Father, in giving this as one of the ten commandments to
the children of Israel, knew the vanity of our nature. He knew how unwilling the young are
to learn from the experience of the old, and he therefore proclaimed this command, that they
might have it constantly before their eyes.

