Sometimes animals are carried off--apparently drowned animals more than others. In Claremorris,
Galway, Paddy Flynn told me, lived a poor widow with one cow and its calf. The cow fell into
the river, and was washed away. There was a man thereabouts who went to a red-haired woman
--for such are supposed to be wise in these things--and she told him to take the calf down
to the edge of the river, and hide himself and watch. He did as she had told him, and as evening
came on the calf began to low, and after a while the cow came along the edge of the river and
commenced suckling it. Then, as he had been told, he caught the cow's tail. Away they went
at a great pace across hedges and ditches, till they came to a royalty (a name for the little
circular ditches, commonly called raths or forts, that Ireland is covered with since Pagan
times). Therein he saw walking or sitting all the people who had died out of his village in
his time. A woman was sitting on the edge with a child on her knees, and she called out to
him to mind what the red-haired woman had told him, and he remembered she had said, Bleed the
cow. So he stuck his knife into the cow and drew blood. That broke the spell, and he was able
to turn her homeward. "Do not forget the spancel," said the woman with the child on her knees;
"take the inside one." There were three spancels on a bush; he took one, and the cow was driven
safely home to the widow.

There is hardly a valley or mountainside where folk cannot tell you of some one pillaged from
amongst them. Two or three miles from the Heart Lake lives an old woman who was stolen away
in her youth. After seven years she was brought home again for some reason or other, but she
had no toes left. She had danced them off. Many near the white stone door in Ben Bulben have
been stolen away.

It is far easier to be sensible in cities than in many country places I could tell you of.
When one walks on those grey roads at evening by the scented elder-bushes of the white cottages,
watching the faint mountains gathering the clouds upon their heads, one all too readily discovers,
beyond the thin cobweb veil of the senses, those creatures, the goblins, hurrying from the
white square stone door to the north, or from the Heart Lake in the south.

THE UNTIRING ONES

It is one of the great troubles of life that we cannot have any unmixed emotions. There is
always something in our enemy that we like, and something in our sweetheart that we dislike.
It is this entanglement of moods which makes us old, and puckers our brows and deepens the
furrows about our eyes. If we could love and hate with as good heart as the faeries do, we
might grow to be long-lived like them. But until that day their untiring joys and sorrows must
ever be one- half of their fascination. Love with them never grows weary, nor can the circles
of the stars tire out their dancing feet. The Donegal peasants remember this when they bend
over the spade, or sit full of the heaviness of the fields beside the griddle at nightfall,
and they tell stories about it that it may not be forgotten. A short while ago, they say, two
faeries, little creatures, one like a young man, one like a young woman, came to a farmer's
house, and spent the night sweeping the hearth and setting all tidy. The next night they came
again, and while the farmer was away, brought all the furniture up-stairs into one room, and
having arranged it round the walls, for the greater grandeur it seems, they began to dance.
They danced on and on, and days and days went by, and all the country-side came to look at
them, but still their feet never tired. The farmer did not dare to live at home the while;
and after three months he made up his mind to stand it no more, and went and told them that
the priest was coming. The little creatures when they heard this went back to their own country,
and there their joy shall last as long as the points of the rushes are brown, the people say,
and that is until God shall burn up the world with a kiss.

But it is not merely faeries who know untiring days, for there have been men and women who,
falling under their enchantment, have attained, perhaps by the right of their God-given spirits,
an even more than faery abundance of life and feeling. It seems that when mortals have gone
amid those poor happy leaves of the Imperishable Rose of Beauty, blown hither and thither by
the winds that awakened the stars, the dim kingdom has acknowledged their birthright, perhaps
a little sadly, and given them of its best. Such a mortal was born long ago at a village in
the south of Ireland. She lay asleep in a cradle, and her mother sat by rocking her, when a
woman of the Sidhe (the faeries) came in, and said that the child was chosen to be the bride
of the prince of the dim kingdom, but that as it would never do for his wife to grow old and
die while he was still in the first ardour of his love, she would be gifted with a faery life.
The mother was to take the glowing log out of the fire and bury it in the garden, and her child
would live as long as it remained unconsumed. The mother buried the log, and the child grew
up, became a beauty, and married the prince of the faeries, who came to her at nightfall. After
seven hundred years the prince died, and another prince ruled in his stead and married the
beautiful peasant girl in his turn; and after another seven hundred years he died also, and
another prince and another husband came in his stead, and so on until she had had seven husbands.
At last one day the priest of the parish called upon her, and told her that she was a scandal
to the whole neighbourhood with her seven husbands and her long life. She was very sorry, she
said, but she was not to blame, and then she told him about the log, and he went straight out
and dug until he found it, and then they burned it, and she died, and was buried like a Christian,
and everybody was pleased. Such a mortal too was Clooth-na-bare,[FN#9] who went all over the
world seeking a lake deep enough to drown her faery life, of which she had grown weary, leaping
from hill to lake and lake to hill, and setting up a cairn of stones wherever her feet lighted,
until at last she found the deepest water in the world in little Lough Ia, on the top of the
Birds' Mountain at Sligo.

[FN#9]  Doubtless Clooth-na-bare should be Cailleac Bare, which would mean the old Woman Bare.
Bare or Bere or Verah or Dera or Dhera was a very famous person, perhaps the mother of the
Gods herself. A friend of mine found her, as he thinks frequenting Lough Leath, or the Grey
Lake on a mountain of the Fews. Perhaps Lough Ia is my mishearing, or the storyteller's mispronunciation
of Lough Leath, for there are many Lough Leaths.

The two little creatures may well dance on, and the woman of the log and Clooth-na-bare sleep
in peace, for they have known untrammelled hate and unmixed love, and have never wearied themselves
with "yes" and "no," or entangled their feet with the sorry net of "maybe" and "perhaps." The
great winds came and took them up into themselves.

EARTH, FIRE AND WATER

Some French writer that I read when I was a boy, said that the desert went into the heart of
the Jews in their wanderings and made them what they are. I cannot remember by what argument
he proved them to be even yet the indestructible children of earth, but it may well be that
the elements have their children. If we knew the Fire Worshippers better we might find that
their centuries of pious observance have been rewarded, and that the fire has given them a
little of its nature; and I am certain that the water, the water of the seas and of lakes and
of mist and rain, has all but made the Irish after its image. Images form themselves in our
minds perpetually as if they were reflected in some pool. We gave ourselves up in old times
to mythology, and saw the Gods everywhere. We talked to them face to face, and the stories
of that communion are so many that I think they outnumber all the like stories of all the rest
of Europe. Even to-day our country people speak with the dead and with some who perhaps have
never died as we understand death; and even our educated people pass without great difficulty
into the condition of quiet that is the condition of vision. We can make our minds so like
still water that beings gather about us that they may see, it may be, their own images, and
so live for a moment with a clearer, perhaps even with a fiercer life because of our quiet.
Did not the wise Porphyry think that all souls come to be born because of water, and that "even
the generation of images in the mind is from water"?

1902.

THE OLD TOWN

I fell, one night some fifteen years ago, into what seemed the power of faery.

I had gone with a young man and his sister--friends and relations of my own--to pick stories
out of an old countryman; and we were coming home talking over what he had told us. It was
dark, and our imaginations were excited by his stories of apparitions, and this may have brought
us, unknown to us, to the threshold, between sleeping and waking, where Sphinxes and Chimaeras
sit open-eyed and where there are always murmurings and whisperings. I cannot think that what
we saw was an imagination of the waking mind. We had come under some trees that made the road
very dark, when the girl saw a bright light moving slowly across the road. Her brother and
myself saw nothing, and did not see anything until we had walked for about half-an-hour along
the edge of the river and down a narrow lane to some fields where there was a ruined church
covered with ivy, and the foundations of what was called "the Old Town," which had been burned
down, it was said, in Cromwell's day. We had stood for some few minutes, so far as I can recollect,
looking over the fields full of stones and brambles and elder-bushes, when I saw a small bright
light on the horizon, as it seemed, mounting up slowly towards the sky; then we saw other faint
lights for a minute or two, and at last a bright flame like the flame of a torch moving rapidly
over the river. We saw it all in such a dream, and it seems all so unreal, that I have never
written of it until now, and hardly ever spoken of it, and even when thinking, because of some
unreasoning impulse, I have avoided giving it weight in the argument. Perhaps I have felt that
my recollections of things seen when the sense of reality was weakened must be untrustworthy.
A few months ago, however, I talked it over with my two friends, and compared their somewhat
meagre recollections with my own. That sense of unreality was all the more wonderful because
the next day I heard sounds as unaccountable as were those lights, and without any emotion
of unreality, and I remember them with perfect distinctness and confidence. The girl was sitting
reading under a large old-fashioned mirror, and I was reading and writing a couple of yards
away, when I heard a sound as if a shower of peas had been thrown against the mirror, and while
I was looking at it I heard the sound again, and presently, while I was alone in the room,
I heard a sound as if something much bigger than a pea had struck the wainscoting beside my
head. And after that for some days came other sights and sounds, not to me but to the girl,
her brother, and the servants. Now it was a bright light, now it was letters of fire that vanished
before they could be read, now it was a heavy foot moving about in the seemingly empty house.
One wonders whether creatures who live, the country people believe, wherever men and women
have lived in earlier times, followed us from the ruins of the old town? or did they come from
the banks of the river by the trees where the first light had shone for a moment?

1902.

THE MAN AND HIS BOOTS

There was a doubter in Donegal, and he would not hear of ghosts or sheogues, and there was
a house in Donegal that had been haunted as long as man could remember, and this is the story
of how the house got the better of the man. The man came into the house and lighted a fire
in the room under the haunted one, and took off his boots and set them On the hearth, and stretched
out his feet and warmed him self. For a time he prospered in his unbelief; but a little while
after the night had fallen, and everything had got very dark, one of his boots began to move.
It got up off the floor and gave a kind of slow jump towards the door, and then the other boot
did the same, and after that the first boot jumped again. And thereupon it struck the man that
an invisible being had got into his boots, and was now going away in them. When the boots reached
the door they went up-stairs slowly, and then the man heard them go tramp, tramp round the
haunted room over his head. A few minutes passed, and he could hear them again upon the stairs,
and after that in the passage outside, and then one of them came in at the door, and the other
gave a jump past it and came in too. They jumped along towards him, and then one got up and
hit him, and afterwards the other hit him, and then again the first hit him, and so on, until
they drove him out of the room, and finally out of the house. In this way he was kicked out
by his own boots, and Donegal was avenged upon its doubter. It is not recorded whether the
invisible being was a ghost or one of the Sidhe, but the fantastic nature of the vengeance
is like the work of the Sidhe who live in the heart of fantasy.

A COWARD

One day I was at the house of my friend the strong farmer, who lives beyond Ben Bulben and
Cope's mountain, and met there a young lad who seemed to be disliked by the two daughters.
I asked why they disliked him, and was; told he was a coward. This interested me, for some
whom robust children of nature take to be cowards are but men and women with a nervous system
too finely made for their life and work. I looked at the lad; but no, that pink-and-white face
and strong body had nothing of undue sensibility. After a little he told me his story. He had
lived a wild and reckless life, until one day, two years before, he was coming home late at
night, and suddenly fell himself sinking in, as it were, upon the ghostly world. For a moment
he saw the face of a dead brother rise up before him, and then he turned and ran. He did not
stop till he came to a cottage nearly a mile down the road. He flung himself against the door
with so much of violence that he broke the thick wooden bolt and fell upon the floor. From
that day he gave up his wild life, but was a hopeless coward. Nothing could ever bring him
to look, either by day or night, upon the spot where he had seen the face, and he often went
two miles round to avoid it; nor could, he said, "the prettiest girl in the country" persuade
him to see her home after a party if he were alone. He feared everything, for he had looked
at the face no man can see unchanged-the imponderable face of a spirit.

THE THREE O'BYRNES AND THE EVIL FAERIES

In the dim kingdom there is a great abundance of all excellent things. There is more love there
than upon the earth; there is more dancing there than upon the earth; and there is more treasure
there than upon the earth. In the beginning the earth was perhaps made to fulfil the desire
of man, but now it has got old and fallen into decay. What wonder if we try and pilfer the
treasures of that other kingdom!

A friend was once at a village near Sleive League. One day he was straying about a rath called
"Cashel Nore." A man with a haggard face and unkempt hair, and clothes falling in pieces, came
into the rath and began digging. My friend turned to a peasant who was working near and asked
who the man was. "That is the third O'Byrne," was the answer. A few days after he learned this
story: A great quantity of treasure had been buried in the rath in pagan times, and a number
of evil faeries set to guard it; but some day it was to be found and belong to the family of
the O'Byrnes. Before that day three O'Byrnes must find it and die. Two had already done so.
The first had dug and dug until at last he had got a glimpse of the stone coffin that contained
it, but immediately a thing like a huge hairy dog came down the mountain and tore him to pieces.
The next morning the treasure had again vanished deep into the earth. The second O'Byrne came
and dug and dug until he found the coffer, and lifted the lid and saw the gold shining within.
He saw some horrible sight the next moment, and went raving mad and soon died. The treasure
again sank out of sight. The third O'Byrne is now digging. He believes that he will die in
some terrible way the moment he finds the treasure, but that the spell will be broken, and
the O'Byrne family made rich for ever, as they were of old.

A peasant of the neighbourhood once saw the treasure. He found the shin-bone of a hare lying
on the grass. He took it up; there was a hole in it; he looked through the hole, and saw the
gold heaped up under the ground. He hurried home to bring a spade, but when he got to the rath
again he could not find the spot where he had seen it.

DRUMCLIFF AND ROSSES

Drumcliff and Rosses were, are, and ever shall be, please Heaven! places of unearthly resort.
I have lived near by them and in them, time after time, and have gathered thus many a crumb
of faery lore. Drumcliff is a wide green valley, lying at the foot of Ben Bulben, the mountain
in whose side the square white door swings open at nightfall to loose the faery riders on the
world. The great St. Columba himself, the builder of many of the old ruins in the valley, climbed
the mountains on one notable day to get near heaven with his prayers. Rosses is a little sea-dividing,
sandy plain, covered with short grass, like a green tablecloth, and lying in the foam midway
between the round cairn-headed Knocknarea and "Ben Bulben, famous for hawks":

    But for Benbulben and Knocknarea
    Many a poor sailor'd be cast away,

as the rhyme goes.

At the northern corner of Rosses is a little promontory of sand and rocks and grass: a mournful,
haunted place. No wise peasant would fall asleep under its low cliff, for he who sleeps here
may wake "silly," the "good people" having carried off his soul. There is no more ready shortcut
to the dim kingdom than this plovery headland, for, covered and smothered now from sight by
mounds of sand, a long cave goes thither "full of gold and silver, and the most beautiful parlours
and drawing-rooms." Once, before the sand covered it, a dog strayed in, and was heard yelping
helplessly deep underground in a fort far inland. These forts or raths, made before modern
history had begun, cover all Rosses and all Columkille. The one where the dog yelped has, like
most others, an underground beehive chamber in the midst. Once when I was poking about there,
an unusually intelligent and "reading" peasant who had come with me, and waited outside, knelt
down by the opening, and whispered in a timid voice, "Are you all right, sir?" I had been some
little while underground, and he feared I had been carried off like the dog.

