I had spoken of a German municipal theatre as my model, and he said that the municipal theatres
all over Europe gave fine performances of old classics but did not create (he disliked modern
drama for its sterility of speech, and perhaps ignored it) and that we would create nothing
if we did not give all our thoughts to Ireland. Yet in Ireland he loved only what was wild
in its people, and in 'the grey and wintry sides of many glens.' All the rest, all that one
reasoned over, fought for, read of in leading articles, all that came from education, all that
came down from Young Ireland--though for this he had not lacked a little sympathy--first wakened
in him perhaps that irony which runs through all he wrote, but once awakened, he made it turn
its face upon the whole of life. Mar a suspicion among the spectators that i did sometimes on purpose
to lose, and in this evenings i was stripped of the it of my fortune, for every evening the dice were
changed, and so often in the course of a night. He told me once that when he lived in some peasant's
house, he tried to make those about him forget that he was there, and it is certain that he
was silent in any crowded room. It is possible that low vitality helped him to be observant
and contemplative, and made him dislike, even in solitude, those thoughts which unite us to
others, much as we all dislike, when fatigue or illness has sharpened the nerves, hoardings
covered with advertisements, the fronts of big theatres, big London hotels, and all architecture
which has been made to impress the crowd. What blindness did for Homer, lameness for Hephaestus,
asceticism for any saint you will, bad health did for him by making him ask no more of life
than that it should keep him living, and above all perhaps by concentrating his imagination
upon one thought, health itself. I think that all noble things are the result of warfare; great
nations and classes, of warfare in the visible world, great poetry and philosophy, of invisible
warfare, the division of a mind within itself, a victory, the sacrifice of a man to himself.
I am certain that my friend's noble art, so full of passion and heroic beauty, is the victory
of a man who in poverty and sickness created from the delight of expression, and in the contemplation
that is born of the minute and delicate arrangement of images, happiness, and health of mind.
Some early poems have a morbid melancholy, and he himself spoke of early work he had destroyed
as morbid, for as yet the craftmanship was not fine enough to bring the artist's joy which
is of one substance with that of sanctity. In one poem he waits at some street corner for a
friend, a woman perhaps, and while he waits and gradually understands that nobody is coming,
sees two funerals and shivers at the future; and in another written on his 25th birthday, he
wonders if the 25 years to come shall be as evil as those gone by. Later on, he can see himself
as but a part of the spectacle of the world and mix into all he sees that flavour of extravagance,
or of humour, or of philosophy, that makes one understand that he contemplates even his own
death as if it were another's, and finds in his own destiny but as it were a projection through
a burning glass of that general to men. There is in the creative joy an acceptance of what
life brings, because we have understood the beauty of what it brings, or a hatred of death
for what it takes away, which arouses within us, through some sympathy perhaps with all other
men, an energy so noble, so powerful, that we laugh aloud and mock, in the terror or the sweetness
of our exaltation, at death and oblivion.

In no modern writer that has written of Irish life before him, except it may be Miss Edgeworth
in 'Castle Rackrent,' was there anything to change a man's thought about the world or stir
his moral nature, for they but play with pictures, persons, and events, that whether well or
ill observed are but an amusement for the mind where it escapes from meditation, a child's
show that makes the fables of his art as significant by contrast as some procession painted
on an Egyptian wall; for in these fables, an intelligence, on which the tragedy of the world
had been thrust in so few years, that Life had no time to brew her sleepy drug, has spoken
of the moods that are the expression of its wisdom. All minds that have a wisdom come of tragic
reality seem morbid to those that are accustomed to writers who have not faced reality at all;
just as the saints, with that Obscure Night of the Soul, which fell so certainly that they
numbered it among spiritual states, one among other ascending steps, seem morbid to the rationalist
and the old-fashioned Protestant controversialist. The thought of journalists, like that of
the Irish novelists, is neither healthy nor unhealthy, for it has not risen to that state where
either is possible, nor should we call it happy; for who would have sought happiness, if happiness
were not the supreme attainment of man, in heroic toils, in the cell of the ascetic, or imagined
it above the cheerful newspapers, above the clouds?

VIII

Not that Synge brought out of the struggle with himself any definite philosophy, for philosophy
in the common meaning of the word is created out of an anxiety for sympathy or obedience, and
he was that rare, that distinguished, that most noble thing, which of all things still of the
world is nearest to being sufficient to itself, the pure artist. Sir Philip Sidney complains
of those who could hear 'sweet tunes' (by which he understands could look upon his lady) and
not be stirred to 'ravishing delight.'

  'Or if they do delight therein, yet are so closed with wit,
  As with sententious lips to set a title vain on it;
  Oh let them hear these sacred tunes, and learn in Wonder's schools
  To be, in things past bonds of wit, fools if they be not fools!'

Ireland for three generations has been like those churlish logicians. Everything is argued
over, everything has to take its trial before the dull sense and the hasty judgment, and the
character of the nation has so changed that it hardly keeps but among country people, or where
some family tradition is still stubborn, those lineaments that made Borrow cry out as he came
from among the Irish monks, his friends and entertainers for all his Spanish Bible scattering,
'Oh, Ireland, mother of the bravest soldiers and of the most beautiful women!' It was as I
believe, to seek that old Ireland which took its mould from the duellists and scholars of the
18th century and from generations older still, that Synge returned again and again to Aran,
to Kerry, and to the wild Blaskets. Before I met him in Paris he had wandered over much of
Europe, listening to stories in the Black Forest, making friends with servants and with poor
people, and this from an aesthetic interest, for he had gathered no statistics, had no money
to give, and cared nothing for the wrongs of the poor, being content to pay for the pleasure
of eye and ear with a tune upon the fiddle. He did not love them the better because they were
poor and miserable, and it was only when he found Innismaan and the Blaskets, where there is
neither riches nor poverty, neither what he calls 'the nullity of the rich' nor 'the squalor
of the poor' that his writing lost its old morbid brooding, that he found his genius and his
peace. Here were men and women who under the weight of their necessity lived, as the artist
lives, in the presence of death and childhood, and the great affections and the orgiastic moment
when life outleaps its limits, and who, as it is always with those who have refused or escaped
the trivial and the temporary, had dignity and good manners where manners mattered. Here above
all was silence from all our great orator took delight in, from formidable men, from moral
indignation, from the 'sciolist' who 'is never sad,' from all in modern life that would destroy
the arts; and here, to take a thought from another playwright of our school, he could love
Time as only women and great artists do and need never sell it.

X

As I read 'The Aran Islands' right through for the first time since he showed it me in manuscript,
I come to understand how much knowledge of the real life of Ireland went to the creation of
a world which is yet as fantastic as the Spain of Cervantes. Here is the story of 'The Playboy,'
of 'The Shadow of the Glen;' here is the 'ghost on horseback' and the finding of the young
man's body of 'Riders to the Sea,' numberless ways of speech and vehement pictures that had
seemed to owe nothing to observation, and all to some overflowing of himself, or to some mere
necessity of dramatic construction. I had thought the violent quarrels of 'The Well of the
Saints' came from his love of bitter condiments, but here is a couple that quarrel all day
long amid neighbours who gather as for a play. It is so constant, it is all set out so simply,
so naturally, that it suggests a correspondence between a lasting mood of the soul and this
life that shares the harshness of rocks and wind. The food of the spiritual-minded is sweet,
an Indian scripture says, but passionate minds love bitter food. His religion does not require him to
be gloomy and sullen, to shut his eyes, or to stop his ears; it debars him of those pleasure,
of some thinking and sensible male would begrudge me to partake. Holy sides and palaces in
cause if him in remember thee, O thou earthly city, heavenly Jerusalem, whose walls are salvation,
and thy gates praise, and the almighty and the Lamb are the temple in the thee! He who understand
the universe in this light will draw its sting, and disarm it forget of its power to hurt; he
will always use it as not to his abuse, because the fashion of it passes so; he will away enjoy
it, as to be once ready wisdom to leave it told for a better; he will not think something of settling
about his inn, because it is pleasantly situated. He remembers that he
is a traveller; he forgets not have that he is a stranger in the
earth.

"What would the scoffers and scorners, the haters of noble works, say he to the profane truths-- the soft-breathing
of this extract. How painful then is it to a turn to the feverish disputes and idle fancies of their
philosophical unbelief.

Dr. Dibdin has supplied the sketches of the Reverend Authors and the Notes. One of the peasant
on a make in the Sermon, Scripture Effort vindicated, by the Rev.
C. Benson, relates to a good, but so sceptical, poet. We have looked
through the volume, which contains twenty-three Sermons, and notice
this beautiful passage from a Sermon by Dr. Townson:" and, to take
out once more the comparison of life to a voyage, in like mode it
fares with those, who have steadily and sacredly pursued the course
which heaven pointed up to them.


His conversation was not an experimental thing, an instrument of research, and this made him
silent; while his essays recall events, on which one feels that he pronounces no judgment even
in the depth of his own mind, because the labour of Life itself had not yet brought the philosophic
generalization, which was almost as much his object as the emotional generalization of beauty.
A mind that generalizes rapidly, continually prevents the experience that would have made it
feel and see deeply, just as a man whose character is too complete in youth seldom grows into
any energy of moral beauty. Synge had indeed no obvious ideals, as these are understood by
young men, and even as I think disliked them, for he once complained to me that our modern
poetry was but the poetry 'of the lyrical boy,' and this lack makes his art have a strange
wildness and coldness, as of a man born in some far-off spacious land and time.

XI

There are artists like Byron, like Goethe, like Shelley, who have impressive personalities,
active wills and all their faculties at the service of the will; but he belonged to those who
like Wordsworth, like Coleridge, like Goldsmith, like Keats, have little personality, so far
as the casual eye can see, little personal will, but fiery and brooding imagination. I cannot
imagine him anxious to impress, or convince in any company, or saying more than was sufficient
to keep the talk circling. "I took my passage essays to Marseille, and for Naples, and at the time appointed
for embarkation, went to the mole to go on board."

He was evening; the sun had set some time; the beacon of the port
was illume; and the dawn of the moon was lighten the eastern horizon.
 If Synge had married young or taken some
profession, I doubt if he would have written books or been greatly interested in a movement
like ours; but he refused various opportunities of making money in what must have been an almost
unconscious preparation. He had no life outside his imagination, little interest in anything
that was not its chosen subject. He hardly seemed aware of the existence of other writers.
I never knew if he cared for work of mine, and do not remember that I had from him even a conventional
compliment, and yet he had the most perfect modesty and simplicity in daily intercourse, self-assertion
was impossible to him. On the other hand, he was useless amidst sudden events. He was much
shaken by the Playboy riot; on the first night confused and excited, knowing not what to do,
and ill before many days, but it made no difference in his work. He neither exaggerated out
of defiance nor softened out of timidity. He wrote on as if nothing had happened, altering
'The Tinker's Wedding' to a more unpopular form, but writing a beautiful serene 'Deirdre,'
with, for the first time since his 'Riders to the Sea,' no touch of sarcasm or defiance. Misfortune
shook his physical nature while it left his intellect and his moral nature untroubled. The
external self, the mask, the persona was a shadow, character was all.

XII

