PREHISTORIC STRUCTURES

  OF

  CENTRAL AMERICA.

  WHO ERECTED THEM?

  A LECTURE,

  BY

  MARTIN INGHAM TOWNSEND,
  OF TROY, NEW YORK.

  TROY, N. Y.:
  T. J. HURLEY, PRINTER, HARMONY HALL BUILDING.
  1895.

INTRODUCTION.

It was not a long period after 1492, when the great Italian navigator with his Spanish crew
made their first discoveries upon the central portion of America, that the Europeans, who had
followed the footsteps of Christopher Columbus, began to fall in with structures of great magnitude
and architectural beauty scattered widely throughout Mexico, Guatemala and Yucatan, &c.; and
when the conquest of Peru was achieved, artificial highways and water courses were found there,
such as could have owed their existence to no people but one with advanced knowledge of science
as well as of the arts of civilized life. No people existed then upon this continent capable
of doing the work which so astonished the world.

Thinking men and dreaming men have, from the earliest of these discoveries, been busying themselves
to find out when, and by what people, these early monuments to human efforts were constructed.

Norwegian discoverers and Welsh emigrants have been pressed into the service. Our own Donnelly
has changed the place where God and history had located the origin of the human race in the
valley of the Tigris and Euphrates, to a suppositious island in the Atlantic Ocean, and led
out the nations of the earth from there to Asia, Africa and western Europe, until he had no
further need of the island and then sunk it in “the bottom of the sea.”

A whole people have been pressed into the service of explaining this mystery. The convenient
“Lost ten tribes of the House of Israel” have been set to do this work, as their fathers were
compelled to “make brick without straw” in the Land of Egypt, and then suffered to escape to
some land where search for them would be in vain.

The following treatise is written for the purpose of showing--

FIRST.--That the lands where these structures exist were known to commercial people and to
many of the scholars of the countries about the Mediterranean Sea for at least a thousand years
before the Christian Era.

SECOND.--That these discoveries were made by the people of Phœnecia, originally located on
the eastern border of the Mediterranean Sea, and by their colonies settled about Carthage in
Africa, and throughout Spain and Portugal up to the Ebro; and who traversed every ocean almost
as thoroughly as have their Anglo Saxon successors for the past four hundred years.

THIRD.--That the origin of the people who made these structures is shown, to absolute certainty,
by the character of the architecture and by the character of the religious belief exhibited
upon the temples which were erected to Baal, or Moloch, i. e. the Sun, who was their God, who
was worshiped by the immolation of their infant children upon his altars.

This is proven as fully by the carvings and frescoes in Mexico and Guatemala, and by the stone
circle of Sillustani, in the high country of Peru, and the figures inscribed upon the great
entrance to the cemetery of Tiahuanuco in the same region, as if a thousand witnesses arose
from the dead and testified before us.

PREHISTORIC CENTRAL AMERICA AND PERU.

THE ANCIENT GREEK AND ROMAN SCHOLARS KNEW OF THE EXISTENCE OF THE WESTERN CONTINENT.

In the earlier existence of the Greek and Roman peoples, knowledge was extremely limited. These
peoples were without any mode of perpetuating or transmitting knowledge until the days, a little
more than a thousand years before the Christian Era, when Cadmus brought from Phœnecia the
letters which had been invented and adopted there for the representation and expression of
articulate sounds; and by the combination of these letters to transmit and perpetuate human
ideas. There is scarce a race of savages in our day where the mass of the body politic are
as profoundly ignorant as were the great body of the Greek people a thousand years before Christ.

Even those men who made such acquisitions of knowledge as were possible in that day, could
only learn from the lips of their imperfectly trained teacher, and by travel to those countries
which the barbarous condition of the world allowed them to visit; and even after the learned
men of the Greek Islands came to know the power of letters, how small must have been the amount
of knowledge existing in the world, and how slow must have been its spread amongst the untaught
commonalty of the then Greek world? In the day when the Phœnician ship Argo made a voyage to
Colchis, at the east end of the Black Sea, it so fired the imagination of the Greek poets that
they dreamed of the voyage and composed poems about it for centuries.

Indeed it was not until the Romans, just before the Christian Era, had subdued all the borders
of the historic Mediterranean Sea, that free intercourse amongst the inhabitants prevailed.
Up to that period every people, as a rule, carefully guarded all knowledge of their own wealth,
and of their own acts and possessions from the rest of mankind, instead of making public expositions
to attract the attention of the outside world to their useful achievements, and they sometimes
passed laws for inflicting the severest punishments upon citizens who should reveal to the
outside world the locations, nature, or extent, or value of their possessions.

Still, we glean from the ancient writers the following announcements.

1. That ancient book entitled “The Book of Wonders,” ascribed to Aristotle, contains the following:
“When the Carthagenians, who were masters of the western ocean, observed that many traders
and other men, attracted by the fertility of the soil and the pleasant climate, had fixed there
their homes, they feared that the knowledge of this land should reach other nations, a great
concourse to it of men from the various lands of the earth would follow, that the conditions
of life, then so happy on that island, would not only be unfavorably affected, but the Carthagenian
Empire itself suffer injury, and the dominion of the sea be wrested from their hands; and so
they issued a decree that no one, under penalty of death, should thereafter sail thither.”
This passage is quoted, not merely with a claim that it refers to the Continent of America,
but for the purpose of showing how carefully the Phœnician people, whether Asiatic, Carthagenian,
or Spanish, guarded from the great world the foreign discoveries which they had made, and where
their kindred were enjoying prosperity; and to enable us to see how little likely their discoveries
would be to come to the knowledge of the great mass of mankind.

2. Let us look for a moment at some of the things which the ancient Greek and Latin authors
have said indicating their knowledge of the existence of a western continent. Crates, a commentator
on Homer, is quoted by authority of Strabo, a very learned author of the century before Christ,
as saying that Homer means in his account of the western Ethiopians the inhabitants of the
Atlantis or the Hesperides, as the unknown world of the west was then variously called.

3. Pliny also 6: 31-36, locates the western Ethiopians somewhere in the Atlantic. This shows
that Crates and Pliny believed that the great poet Homer believed in the existence of a great
continent on the western shore of the Atlantic ocean.

4. Humboldt quotes that Anaxagoras, who was born five hundred years B. C., and was a most eminent
Greek philosopher, speaks of the grand division of the world beyond the ocean.

6. Aelian in his Variæ Historiæ, Book 3, Chapter 18, cites Theopompus, an eminent Greek historian,
born about three hundred years B. C., as stating that the Meropians inhabit a large continent
beyond the ocean, in comparison with which the known world was but an island.

7. Aristotle says in Chapters 84 and 85: “Beyond the Pillars of Hercules, they say that an
inhabited island was discovered by the Carthagenians, which abounded in forests and navigable
rivers and fruits of all kinds, distant from the continent many days’ sail. And while the Carthagenians
were engaged in making voyages to this land, and some had even settled there on account of
the fertility of the soil, the Senate decreed that no one thereafter, under penalty of death,
should voyage thither.” Aristotle was born three hundred and eighty-four years before Christ.

8. Diodorus of Sicily, who lived in the century preceding the Christian Era, says in his Book
5,--19 and 20, that it was the “Phœnicians instead of the Carthagenians who were cast upon
a most fertile island opposite Africa, where the climate was that of perpetual spring, and
that the land was the proper habitation for gods rather than men.”

He speaks of the continent, however, at length and with great detail, enumerating its fertile
valleys and navigable rivers, its rich and abundant fruits and supply of game, its valuable
forests and its genial climate.

9. Pliny quotes Statius Sebosus, in his volume 2, page 106, Bohn, as saying that the two Hesperides
are forty-two days’ sail from the coast of Africa.

THE PHŒNICIAN PEOPLE WERE EQUAL TO THE DISCOVERIES ON THE WESTERN CONTINENT, IF WE JUDGE THEM
BY WHAT THEY ACTUALLY ACCOMPLISHED.

The prophet Isaiah, writing soon after seven hundred and fifty years before Christ, in the
twenty-third chapter of his prophecy, gives us a pretty good idea of the unlimited commerce
and the unlimited prosperity of the merchants of Tyre. Among other things he says the following,
speaking of the City “Whose antiquity is of ancient days.” He calls the City “The Crowning
City,” “whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honorable of the earth.” The
wealth and luxury of Tyre was eternally injurious to the Jewish people from the time of their
return from Egypt to Canaan to the carrying away of Israel to Babylon in the later days. The
Jewish husbandman, dazzled by the luxuries of Tyre and Sidon, was affected as those in more
moderate circumstances are in later days, by the manners and customs of their rich neighbors,
and were building groves in high places under which to worship, as did the priests of Baal
in Palestine, and under the oaks in the northwest of Europe, where they acquired the name of
Druids. They forsook the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and worshipped Baal and Ashtaroth
and Astarte, the Phœnician Venus.

They even sacrificed their children to Moloch, the relentless fire god, as Baal appeared in
his sterner characteristics. But upon the loss of wealth which Phœnicia sustained in the wars
with Nebuchadnezzar and subsequently with Alexander, the Phœnicians ceased to be conspicuously
wealthy and luxurious, and Israel was left to worship that God who called their father Abraham
from upper Chaldea, and who afterwards brought him out of the “House of Bondage” in Egypt after
having been four hundred years enslaved there.

We have now glanced at the widespread influence of the Phœnician people over the borders of
the Mediterranean sea and over the west and northwest of Europe.

Let it be remembered that what we have said upon this subject is founded upon authentic evidence
from ancient history and modern fact.

Let us look for a moment now and see what these peoples accomplished through the waters of
the Red sea and upon the waters easterly of the straits of Bab-el-Mandeb. After Solomon had
associated with Hiram, King of Tyre, and Hiram, the son of Abif, the chief of the mechanics
who built the temple, and become acquainted with the wealth brought home by Phœnician ships
from the great outside world, his spirit of Jewish thrift was excited, and he determined to
share in the profits of nautical adventures. No Jewish lexicon tells us of almug or algum trees;
no Hebrew writer undertakes to describe them. But that enterprising publicist, O’Donovan, who
for the purposes of knowledge a few years ago traversed the Caucasus, crossed the Caspian sea
and buried himself for two or three years among the still wild tribes of Turkestan, tells us
that after his liberation from the Turks, and while traveling in eastern Persia towards the
capital, he found a tree which attracted his attention because its fibre reminded him of that
of the Lignum Vitæ, which tree the natives called “The Yalgam.” Here we have Solomon’s algum
tree with the name scarcely modified. Would it be the strangest thing that ever happened if
these “yalgam,” “almug,” or “algum” trees, so beautiful as to be unequalled by anything known
in Palestine, and for that reason set up as ornaments in God’s house, should turn out in the
day when all things become known to be rosewood and mahogany from the west coast of Central
America, taken on board by Solomon’s servants on their return from Parvaim or Peru and the
old mines of Potosi, where they had gone for the gold which filled the coffers of Solomon.
It may be said that such would be a long voyage; true, but not much longer than a voyage to
the Orkneys. Authentic profane history tells us that between six and seven hundred years before
the birth of Christ, Pharaoh Necho, King of Egypt, built a fleet in the Red Sea, manned it
with Phœnician sailors and sent them out upon the waters to discover the shape and dimensions
of the continent of Africa. These sailors passed down through the straits of Bab et Mandel
and clear around the Cape of Good Hope and the continent of Africa more than two thousand years
before Vasco Degama, and coming in through the straits of Gibraltar after an absence of about
two years. Their food supply run low, their supply was mainly wheat, they tied up their ships,
landed, plowed the ground with sharpened sticks, cast their bread, not upon the waters, but
upon the ground, and thus raised a new crop of wheat, preparing to supply their wants until
they should return to Egypt, that eternal land of plenty.

It will be remembered that for centuries previous to the close of the Punic wars under Hannibal
the Phœnician people owned and controlled the whole north of Africa, west of Egypt, and the
whole of Spain up to the Ebro, and the whole of Cyprus and a very large portion of Sicily,
and that when the ancient writers, and even modern writers speak of Spain, the Carthagenians
and northern Africa, they refer to the people who sprang from the commercial cities on the
eastern shore of the Mediterranean sea, occupying a territory of not more than one hundred
miles in extent north and south, and extending back into Syria not more than fifteen miles,
whence all these people sprang, and applied to them the general term of Phœnicians.

From the authorities we have quoted we think there can be no doubt but that here and there
a learned man among the Greek scholars had come to believe that some eastern navigator had
discovered a western world exceedingly productive and beautiful, and that a population of eastern
origin had sprung up and existed in the lands so discovered.

IF THE WESTERN CONTINENT HAD REALLY BEEN DISCOVERED ACCIDENTALLY, OR OF SET PURPOSE, WHAT EASTERN
NATION WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO HAVE BEEN THE DISCOVERERS OF THIS WESTERN WORLD.

Nineveh and Babylon are never spoken of as having sent even a keel boat out upon the seas.
Egypt has been called the “Cradle of The Arts” and the “Birthplace of Science and Civilization,”
but Egypt never attained the maritime power or skill to enable her to navigate the waters of
the Mediterranean beyond the mouths of her eternal river.

Greece, afterwards so celebrated for science, art and philosophy, was at the day of which Homer
sung, a mere association of savage groups, engaged in wars instead of seeking commercial profits
in distributing the products of civilized life among the nations of mankind.

