The design of a fire screen depends, of course, on the purpose it is intended to serve. If
it is desired to secure a screen that will cut off the heat but not the light of the fire,
the craftsman will work with larger areas of clear glass. On the other hand, it may be felt
desirable to make a nearly opaque screen to cut off both light and heat. These, of course,
are usually small rectangles on some sort of a pedestal and are not intended to take the place
of spark screens.

A wood receptacle of some form is a convenient accessory, as one will avoid the task of carrying
fuel up from the cellar or in from the woodpile whenever a fire is desired. There is a broad
field from which to choose—brass-bound boxes of many sizes and forms, sturdy baskets and the
metal wood baskets which are made for holding the logs themselves. There are those who prefer
not to encumber the vicinity of the fireplace with these rather bulky receptacles, but who
find it convenient to have a box built in near by in the form of a window-seat or perhaps as
a part of built-in bookcases. Two or three houses that I have known had a very simple rough
dumbwaiter running from the cellar up into a window-seat. This could be loaded with fuel, hoisted
into position and locked there until the fuel was needed.

There are two other fireplace accessories that we must not overlook, and these are the crane
and the trivet. The crane is a very picturesque feature in a fireplace that is large enough
to hold it comfortably, but it does seem unfortunate that in a great many fireplaces the crane
is dragged in with the idea of making it a decorative feature but without any expectation of
putting it to practical use. There are fireplaces—in a summer camp, for example—where a crane
could be put to good use. Used elsewhere it is too often merely an affectation.

The trivet is not nearly so well known as the crane and yet it might be put to use in a modern
fireplace much more frequently. In England it is found in various ingenious forms, most of
which show, however, some form of low stool which is stood upon the hearth, as near as may
be convenient to the fire, to keep warm a teakettle or perhaps even a plate of toast. There
are some rather interesting antique brass trivets to be found in many of the larger antique shops.

                           BUILDING THE FIRE

I have no doubt that the majority of the readers who have patiently found their way thus far
through this little book will feel like closing it with a sigh of impatience at the sight of
the chapter heading above. “Who doesn’t know how to build a wood fire? We might as well seek
instruction as to the most approved method of striking a match!” But if you will bear with
me for a moment I would say most emphatically that as a matter of fact very few people really
do know how to build a fire. It is easy enough to assemble a bunch of newspapers, twigs, kindling
and logs so that it is possible to start a fire, but perhaps you have noticed that while many
fires are kindled few burn out. If you are seeking for the greatest amount of comfort and enjoyment
from your wood fire you will secure it only by sitting at the feet of that greatest of all
teachers, experience, or perhaps more quickly by experimenting a bit with one or two of the
simple expedients which I shall try to show are based on the wood fire’s way of working. While
there are those who would not for worlds give up the pleasure of tinkering with the tongs and
poker while the fire burns, it will perhaps not detract from this enjoyment if the tinkering
is not actually the result of necessity to keep the logs burning. Fire-mending is a delightful
recreation only when it is not imposed upon us by becoming an alternative to having the glowing
embers become discouraged and give up the fight.

First of all, there is the need of having fuel that is really dry. It is not essential that
the woodpile be kept indoors, but it should at least have shelter above it and on three sides.
The woodsheds of New England farmhouses offer a practical and efficient solution of the problem.
Usually you will find these as an extension to the house, a shed open only to the south, in
which the cord wood is piled neatly to the roof with sawn ends to the front. Two long logs
are laid on the floor or ground, at right angles to the firewood, so as to encourage a circulation
of air for drying.

In addition to the heavier logs which are cut to fit the fireplace opening, there should be
almost an equal quantity of twigs, brush and smaller pieces, or else split kindling, to serve
as starting fuel.

To lay a fire on the hearth, select first a heavy log which should be placed close against
the back of the fire chamber on the hearth and not on the andirons. This is the traditional
“backlog.” It will serve through several fires and is intended mainly as a protection of the
back brickwork. Stand the andirons with their rear ends close up against the backlog, and if
the latter is of the best size its top will be well above the horizontal bars of the andirons.
Now select a smaller log—preferably not a split piece—and lay it across the andirons. If a
big fire is desired, keep this log—the “forelog”—well to the front, just back of the andiron
upright posts, leaving plenty of space between backlog and forelog for the main body of the
fire. The distance between these two logs will govern the size of the fire. In this space put
a few crumpled sheets of newspaper, some of the lighter twigs and small branches, and one,
two or three logs or split pieces, as may be required to fill the space. The diagrams will
make clearer this arrangement for a small fire or a large one.

As the central portion of the fire burns away, keep the forelog pushed back against it, unless
a less active fire is desired. It is well to remember that where one isolated log will not
burn, two close together probably will, and a pyramid of three will do still better.

Many fireplaces show a tendency to smoke only when first lighted; this is probably due to a
cold chimney, and can usually be prevented or made less objectionable by burning a newspaper
just under the throat, thus starting the proper action of the up and down drafts.

If it is possible for us to choose between various kinds of wood for our open fire fuel there
is opened up one of the most interesting phases of the whole subject. To most people probably
a wood fire is a wood fire, whether the logs be of cherry wood, pine, hickory or anything else.
For the wood fire connoisseur, if we may call him by that name, there is no difficulty whatever
in telling with a glance at the fire just what wood is burned. The crackle and explosive nature
of hickory, the hiss of pine, the steady flame from cherry, the hot and rapid disintegration
of sycamore, and the steady and thorough combustion of soft apple wood soon become familiar
characteristics to those who have the opportunity to lay the fire in variety. Then there is,
of course, the fascination and the weird coloring in a driftwood fire—most spectacular of all
but unfortunately denied to most of us.

Finally, the most important factor of all in the management of a wood fire is an ample bed
of ashes for its foundation. It is impossible for anyone who has not actually tried fires both
ways to appreciate the immense advantage that a bed of wood ashes gives. It unquestionably
doubles the fire’s efficiency in throwing heat out into the room, it halves the care and attention
needed to keep the fire burning, and it increases beyond measure the beauty of a wood fire,
when it is nearing its end, by rekindling itself with the embers and keeping alive for a long
time the quiet, dull red glow. Stop your ears to the importunities of the over-zealous housekeeper
and steel yourself against the pricks of the conscience of cleanliness. If need be, fight for
the retention of that bed of ashes. You can scarcely get it too large or too deep. The accumulation
of two years is a priceless treasure. One of my own fireplaces has a bank that has to be depleted
about twice a year to make room for the fire. A peck or two of the fine white powder is then
carried out to bring joy to the rose garden.

To one who loves a wood fire and knows its possibilities the mention of such a thing as an
ash-drop is as a red flag to a bull. Peace be to the ashes of the man who invented this easy
method of robbing the hearth of half its charm. May he be forgiven it.