Objective: Ensure an integrated incident management capability. In the end, prevention of catastrophic
terrorism is dependent upon interdiction of people and materials. However, solid plans, preparations,
and immediate response remain key to mitigating acts of terrorism. Unity of effort requires
coordination not only at the apex of the federal government, but also at the operational/tactical
level, where response and intervention actions may be taken by diverse authorities, acting
independently or in coordination with each other. An effective, integrated response requires
incident management planning, enhanced interoperability, and coordination, based on and supported
by rapid and effective decision-making.

In an effort to ensure rapid crisis response, the U.S. will coordinate with host governments
and regional partners to develop plans for alerting, containing, and, if necessary, repelling
an attack in progress while ensuring adequate resources are available to mitigate the damage.
At the outset of a crisis, an interagency team capable of supporting the affected U.S. Embassy
with assessments and recommendations is essential. Consequently, the Department of State, the
Department of Defense, and other relevant agencies shall ensure that adequate staffing, training,
equipment, and transportation are available for the Foreign Emergency Support Team. All appropriate
departments and agencies will review and, if necessary amend, their incident-management procedures
for overseas terrorist incidents involving critical infrastructure and facilities of U.S. national
security interest.

CONCLUSION

Political violence may be endemic to the human condition, but we cannot tolerate terrorists
who seek to combine the powers of modern technology and WMD to threaten the very notion of
civilized society. The war against terrorism, therefore, is not some sort of "clash of civilizations";
instead, it is a clash between civilization and those who would destroy it.

Given these stakes, we must persevere until the United States, together with its friends and
allies, eliminates terrorism as a threat to our way of life. As our enemies exploit the benefits
of our global environment to operate around the world, our approach must be global as well.
When they run, we will follow. When they hide, we will find them. Some battlefields will be
known, others unknown. The campaign ahead will be long and arduous. In this different kind
of war, we cannot expect an easy or definitive end to the conflict.

This National Strategy reflects the reality that success will only come through the sustained,
steadfast, and systematic application of all the elements of national power--diplomatic, economic,
information, financial, law enforcement, intelligence, and military--simultaneously across
four fronts. We will defeat terrorist organizations of global reach through relentless action.
We will deny terrorists the sponsorship, support, and sanctuary they need to survive. We will
win the war of ideas and diminish the underlying conditions that promote the despair and the
destructive visions of political change that lead people to embrace, rather than shun, terrorism.
And throughout, we will use all the means at our disposal to defend against terrorist attacks
on the United States, our citizens, and our interests around the world.

