In a similar manner, and by a similar process, we arrive at a clearer and more explicit knowledge
of other important truths, which were not at first universally recognised as being contained
in the original deposit. The dogma of Papal infallibility is an instance in point. For though
no Catholic ever doubted the genuine infallibility of the Church, yet in the early centuries,
there existed some difference of opinion, as to where precisely the infallible authority resided.
Most Catholics, even then, believed it to be a gift conferred by Christ upon Peter himself
[who alone is the rock], and upon each Pope who succeeded him in his office, personally and
individually, but some were of opinion that, not the Pope by himself, but only "the Pope-in-Council,"
that is to say, the Pope supported by a majority of Bishops, was to be considered infallible.
So that, while all admitted the Pope with a majority of the Bishops, taken together, to be
divinely safeguarded from teaching error, yet the prevailing and dominant opinion, from the
very first, went much further, and ascribed this protection to the Sovereign Pontiff likewise
when acting alone and unsupported. This is so well known, that even the late Mr. Gladstone,
speaking as an outside observer, and as a mere student of history, positively brings it as
a charge against the Catholic Church that "the Popes, for well-nigh a thousand years, have
kept up, with comparatively little intermission, their claim to dogmatic infallibility" (Vat.
p. 28). Still, the point remained unsettled by any dogmatic definition, so that, as late as
in 1793, Archbishop Troy of Dublin did but express the true Catholic view of his own day when
he wrote: "Many Catholics contend that the Pope, when teaching the Universal Church, as their
supreme visible head and pastor, as successor to St. Peter, and heir to the promises of special
assistance made to him by Jesus Christ, is infallible; and that his decrees and decisions in
that capacity are to be respected as rules of faith, when they are dogmatical, or confined
to doctrinal points of faith and morals. Others," the Archbishop goes on to explain, "deny
this, and require the expressed or tacit acquiescence of the Church assembled or dispersed,
to stamp infallibility on his dogmatic decrees." Then he concludes:--"Until the Church shall
decide upon this question of the Schools, either opinion may be adopted by individual Catholics,
without any breach of Catholic communion or peace."

This was how the question stood until 1870. But it stands in that position no longer; for the
Church has now spoken--Roma locuta est, causa finita. Hence, no Catholic can now deny or call
into question the great prerogative of the Vicar of Christ, without suffering shipwreck of
the faith. At the Vatican Council, Pope Pius IX. and the Archbishops and Bishops of the entire
Catholic world were gathered together in Rome, and after earnest prayer and prolonged discussion,
they declared that the prerogative of infallibility, which is the very source of Catholic unity,
and the very secret of Catholic strength, resides in the individual Pope who happens, at the
time, to occupy the Papal chair, and that when he speaks ex cathedrâ, his definitions are infallibly
true, and consonant with Catholic revelation, even before they have been accepted by the hierarchy
throughout the world. But here it must be borne in mind that the Pope speaks ex cathedrâ, that
is to say, infallibly, only when he speaks:--

     1. As the Universal Teacher.

     2. In the name and with the authority of the Apostles.

     3. On a point of Faith or Morals.

     4. With the purpose of binding every member of the Church to
        accept and believe his decision.

Thus it is clearly seen that from the year 1870 the dogma of Papal, in contra-distinction to
ecclesiastical infallibility, has been defined and raised to an article of faith, the denial
of which is heresy.

The doctrine is at once new and yet not new. It is new in the sense that up to the time of
the Vatican Council it had never been actually drawn out of the premises that contained it,
and set forth before the faithful in a formal definition. On the other hand, it is not new,
but as old as Christianity, in the sense that it was always contained implicitly in the deposit
of faith. Any body of truth that is living grows, and unfolds and becomes more clearly understood
and more thoroughly grasped, as time wears on. The entire books of Euclid are after all but
the outcome of a few axioms and accepted definitions. These axioms help us to build up certain
propositions. And one proposition, when established, leads to another, till at last we seem
to have unearthed statements entirely new and original. Yet, they are certainly not really
new, for had they not been all along contained implicitly in the few initial facts, it is quite
clear they could never have been evolved from them. Nemo dat, quod non habet.

Hence Papal Infallibility is not so much a new truth, or an "addition to the Faith," as some
heretics would foolishly try to persuade us, as a clearer expression and a more exact and detailed
presentation of what was taught from the beginning.

It is here that the well-known historian, Döllinger, who rejected the definition, proved himself
to be not only a proud rebel but also a very poor logician. Until 1870, he was a practising
Catholic, and, therefore, like every other Catholic, he, of course, admitted that the Pope
and the Bishops, speaking collectively, were divinely supported and safeguarded from error,
when they enunciated to the world any doctrine touching faith or morals. Yet, when the Pope
and the Bishops, assembled at the Vatican, did so speak collectively, and did conjointly issue
the decree of Papal Infallibility, he proceeded to eat his own words, refused to abide by their
decision, and was deservedly turned out of the Church of God: being excommunicated by the Archbishop
of Munich on the 17th of April, 1871, in virtue of the instructions given by Our Divine Lord
Himself, viz.: "If he will not hear the Church (cast him out, i.e.), let him be to thee as
the heathen and publican" (Matt. xviii. 17). He, and the few misguided men that followed him
in his rebellion, and called themselves Old Catholics, had been quite ready to believe that
the Pope, with the Bishops, when speaking as one body, were Infallible. In fact, if they had
not believed that, they never could have been Catholics at any time. But they did not seem
to realise the sufficiently obvious fact that, whether they will it or not, and whether they
advert to it or not, it is utterly impossible now to deny the Infallibility of the Pope personally
and alone, without at the same time denying the Infallibility of the "Pope and the Bishops
collectively," for the simple reason that it is precisely the "Pope and the Bishops collectively"
who have solemnly and in open session declared that the Pope enjoys the prerogative of Infallibility
in his own individual person. Since the Vatican Council, one is forced by the strict requirements
of sound reason to believe, either that the Pope is Infallible, or else that there is no Infallibility
in the Church at all, and that there never had been.

Those who were too proud to submit to the definition followed, of course, the example of earlier
heretics in previous Councils. They excused themselves on the plea that the Council was (a)
not free, or else (b) not sufficiently representative, or, finally, (c) not unanimous in its
decisions. But such utterly unsupported allegations served only to accentuate the weakness
of their cause and the hopelessness of their position; since it would be difficult, from the
origin of the Church to the present time, to find any Council so free, so representative, and
so unanimous.

Pope Pius IX. (whom, it seems likely, we shall soon be called upon to venerate as a canonised
saint) convened the Vatican Council by the Bull Æterni Patris, published on 29th June, 1868.
It summoned all the Archbishops, Bishops, Patriarchs, etc., throughout the Catholic world to
meet together in Rome on 8th December of the following year, 1869. When the appointed day arrived,
and the Council was formally opened, there were present 719 representatives from all parts
of the world, and very soon after, this number was increased to 769. On 18th July, 1870--a
day for ever memorable in the annals of the Church--the fourth public session was held, and
the constitution Pater Æternus, containing the definition of the Papal Infallibility, was solemnly
promulgated. Of the 535 who were present on this grand occasion, 533 voted for the definition
(placet) and only two, one from Sicily, the other from the United States, voted against it
(non placet). Fifty-five Bishops, who fully accepted the doctrine itself, but deemed its actual
definition at that moment inopportune, simply absented themselves from this session. Finally,
the Holy Father, in the exercise of his supreme authority, sanctioned the decision of the Council,
and proclaimed officially, urbi et orbi the decrees and the canons of the "First Dogmatic Constitution
of the Church of Christ".

It may be well here to clothe the Latin words of the Pope and the assembled Bishops in an English
dress. But if any one--which may God avert--presume to contradict this our definition, let
him be anathema."

"Every Bishop in the Catholic world, however inopportune some may have at one time held the
definition to be, submitted to the Infallible ruling of the Church," says E.S. Purcell. "A
very small and insignificant number of priests and laymen in Germany apostatised and set up
the Sect of 'Old Catholics'. But all the rest of the Catholic world, true to their faith, accepted,
without reserve, the dogma of Papal Infallibility."[4]

For over eighteen hundred years the Infallible authority of the Pope-in-Council had been admitted
by all Catholics. And in any great emergency or crisis in the Church's history, these Councils
were actually held, and presided over by the Pope, either in person or by his duly appointed
representatives, for the purpose of clearing up and adjusting disputed points, or to smite,
with a withering anathema, the various heresies as they arose, century after century. But in
the meantime, the Church, which had been planted "like a grain of mustard seed, which is the
least of all seeds" (Mark iv. 31), was fulfilling the prophecy that had been made in regard
to her, and "was shooting out great branches" (Mark iv. 32) and becoming more extended and
more prolific than all her rivals. She enlarged her boundaries and spread farther and farther
over the face of the earth, while the number of her children rapidly multiplied in every direction.

In course of time, the immense continents of America and Australia, together with New Zealand
and Tasmania and other hitherto unknown regions, were discovered and thrown open to the influences
of human industry and enterprise. And as men and women swarmed into these newly acquired lands,
the Church accompanied them: and new vicariates and dioceses sprang up, and important Sees
were formed, which in time, as the populations thickened, became divided and sub-divided into
smaller Sees, till at last the number of Bishops in these once unknown and distant regions
rose to several hundreds.

Thus the whole condition of things became altered; and the calling together of an Ecumenical
Council--a very simple affair in the infancy of the Church--was becoming daily more and more
difficult. Not so much, perhaps, by reason of the enormous distances of the dioceses from the
central authority, for modern methods of locomotion have almost annihilated space, but because
of the immense increase in the number of the hierarchy that would have to meet together, whenever
a Council is called.

On the other hand, with the greater extension of the Church, would naturally come an increased
crop of heresies. For, cockle may be sown, and weeds may spring up, in any part of the field,
and the field is now a hundred times vaster than it was. Now, it is extremely important that
as fast as errors arise they should be pointed out, and rooted up without delay, and before
they can breed a pestilence and corrupt a whole neighbourhood. But the complicated machinery
of a great Ecumenical Council, which involves prolonged preparation, considerable expense,
and a temporary dislocation in almost every diocese throughout the world, is too cumbersome
and slow to be called into requisition whenever a heresy has to be blasted, or whenever a decision
has to be made known.

Hence we cannot help recognising and admiring the Providence of God over His Church, in thus
simplifying the process, in these strenuous days, by which His truth is to be maintained and
His revelation protected. For the fact--true from the beginning, viz., that the Pope enjoys
the prerogative of personal infallibility--is not only a profound truth; but a truth for the
first time formally recognised, defined, promulgated and explicitly taught as an article of
Divine faith. Consequently, without summoning a thousand Bishops from the four quarters of
the globe, the Sovereign Pontiff may now rise in his own strength, and proclaim to the entire
Church what is, and what is not, consonant with the truths of revelation. This is evident from
the Vatican's definition, which declares that "THE POPE HAS THAT SAME INFALLIBILITY WHICH THE
CHURCH HAS"--"Romanum Pontificem eâ infallibilitate pollere, quâ divinus Redemptor Ecclesiam
suam in definiendâ doctrinâ de fide vel moribus instructam esse voluit". Words of the Bull,
"PASTOR ÆTERNUS".

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: See Life of Cardinal Manning, vol. ii., p. 452.]

CHAPTER III.

WATCHMAN! WHAT OF THE NIGHT?

