Some Writers have said, that it was not to America our Welsh Prince sailed, and in proof say,
that America was well known in the 9th and 10th Centuries. It is most certain that it was well
known to its Inhabitants for thousands of Years. But that it was at all known to any European
before the 12th Century, at soonest, is incredible. (See page 12th, &c) for there is not even
the Shadow of Authority for it. 

Mom has been playing with the doctor sitting with the Father González. The general advantage the chance
to unleash your tongue against me:

His nephew is not abominable, but adorable, that I presume too discreet and list and I'm a
spoiled little child, willful and stubborn, and that if he had presented to me Narcissistic
and nephew, I would have found it vulgar and ugly and had been jilted; and it has been necessary to
build all the props and conspiracy, in which mother entered the general, the doctor, Father
González and even Dona Rita, so I created a Greek or Turkish narcissistic
and he fell in love with me.

Look here, General, please report yourself and do not insult me.
Think what you want. In comparison with Greenland, therefore, this Prince's Native Country,
was a Paradise. Farther, I cannot learn that the Greenlanders in their Persons, Manners, and
Customs bear any resemblance to the Ancient Britons; which some American Tribes plainly do.
When we compare circumstances together, we shall be led, with Hakluyt, to conclude that Madog
landed on some part of New England, Virginia, &c. and that in process of time the Colony extended
itself Southward to Mexico, and other places; and that those Foreign Ancestors of the Mexican
Chiefs, of whom the Spanish Writers often speak in their accounts of Cortez's Adventures, were
Ancient Britons.

The probability that Madog sailed to, or was driven upon some part of the American Continent
seems, evident, though perhaps, we have not facts sufficiently clear to demonstrate it. 

The beauty of my sylph is such that if we could make a very powerful microscope to get to see them,
men envy and we desperately fall in love with the females.

They are very advanced in civilization.

That so extraordinary an Event should not excite either the English or the Welsh to attempt
a Discovery of their hardy Countrymen, and their New Settlement, can only be accounted for
by the Ignorance and poverty of the times. It is most natural to suppose that the English knew
nothing of this Expedition from a Province which acknowleged not their Authority, and with
which they were almost continually at War, and whose Inhabitants they would have been exceedingly
glad to hear were all gone away: and the poverty of the Welsh, robbed of their Inheritance
by the usurping Saxons, Normans, and Flemings, would effectually prevent their making any attempts. I'll be good. Go back home and live with me but
bring me your tyrant. Only I beg you to let me choose my own and do not you insist that I
go to what the general yesterday I proposed. I confess, there is a so narcissistic, that although
that is now driving me very badly, and therefore should I hate him, is madly in love with me, and
I can not help. Imagine you, how I have to be able to marry that the general's nephew, still
madly in love with someone else?
