Separation and Service

OR

THOUGHTS ON

NUMBERS VI, VII.

BY J. HUDSON TAYLOR.

  Separation and Service.

                                                    PAGE
  Introductory                                         7

  PART I.

  SEPARATION TO GOD: Numbers vi, 1-21.

  Institution of the Order of Nazarites               11
  Implicit Obedience                                  13
  Entire Consecration                                 16
  Holiness to the LORD                                19
  Unwitting Defilement                                22
  The Heinousness of Sin                              23
  Cleansing only through Sacrifice                    25
  Acceptance only in CHRIST                           27
  The Presentation of the Nazarites                   33
  The Law of the Offerings                            35
  The Burnt-Offering                                  39
  The Sin and Peace-Offerings                         41

  PART II.

  THE BLESSING OF GOD: Numbers vi, 22-27.

  Why Found Here?                                     44
  The Real Meaning of Blessing                        49
  The Three-fold Benediction                          52
  The Blessing of the FATHER                          53
  The Second Person of the Trinity                    60
  The Blessing of the SON and BRIDEGROOM              63
  The LORD, the SPIRIT                                70
  The Blessing of the HOLY SPIRIT                     73
  Sealing with the Name of GOD                        80

  PART III.

  PRINCELY SERVICE: Numbers vii.

  The Constraint of Love                              89
  GOD'S Delight in Love-gifts                         90
  Free-will Offerings                                 93
  Gladsome Acceptance                                 96
  According to his Service                           101
  The Dedicatory Offerings                           107
  The Display of the Gifts                           109
  The Person of the Offerer                          113
  The Importance of the Altar                        117

Separation and Service.

Numbers vi, vii.

INTRODUCTORY.

For many years these chapters had no special interest to me; but I have never ceased to be
thankful that I was early led to read the Word of GOD in regular course: it was through this
habit that these chapters first became specially precious to me. I was travelling on a missionary
tour in the province of CHEH-KIANG, and had to pass the night in a very wicked town. All the
inns were dreadful places; and the people seemed to have their consciences seared, and their
hearts sealed against the Truth. My own heart was oppressed, and could find no relief; and
I awoke the next morning much cast down, and feeling spiritually hungry and thirsty indeed.

On opening my Bible at the seventh chapter of Numbers, I felt as though I could not then read
that long chapter of repetitions; that I must turn to some chapter that would feed my soul.
And yet I was not happy in leaving my regular portion; so after a little conflict I resolved
to read it, praying to GOD to bless me, even through Numb. vii. I fear there was not much faith
in the prayer; but oh! how abundantly it was answered, and what a feast GOD gave me! He revealed
to me His own great heart of love, and gave me the key to understand this and the previous
chapter as never before. May GOD make our meditations upon them as helpful to others as they
were then and have ever since continued to be to myself.

Much is revealed in these chapters in germ which is more fully brought out in the New Testament.
Under the Old Covenant many blessings were enjoyed in measure and for a season, which in this
dispensation are ours in their fulness and permanence. For instance, the atoning sacrifices
of the seventh month had to be repeated every year; but CHRIST, in offering Himself once for
all, perfected for ever them that are sanctified. The Psalmist needed to pray, "Take not Thy
HOLY SPIRIT from me;" but CHRIST has given us the COMFORTER to abide with us for ever. In like
manner the Israelite might vow the vow of a Nazarite and separate himself unto GOD for a season;
but it is the privilege of the Christian believer to know himself as always separated to GOD.
Many other lessons, which are hidden from careless and superficial readers, are suggested by
these chapters, which the HOLY SPIRIT will reveal to prayerful students of His most precious
and most perfect Book.

The portions we have selected consist of first a short chapter, and then a very long one, which
at first sight appears to have no special connection with it. But on more careful reflection
we shall see that the order of the subjects referred to shows that there is really a natural
and close connection between them. We shall find that Separation to GOD is followed by Blessing
from GOD; and that those who receive large blessing from Him, in turn render to Him acceptable
Service: service in which GOD takes delight, and which He places in everlasting remembrance.

PART I.

Separation to GOD.

NUMB. VI. 1-21.

THE INSTITUTION OF THE ORDER OF NAZARITES.

The first twenty-one verses of Numb. vi. give us an account of the institution and ordinances
of the order of Nazarites. And let us note at the outset that this institution, like every
other good and perfect gift, came from above; that GOD Himself gave this privilege--unasked--to
His people; thereby showing His desire that "whosoever will" of His people may be brought into
closest relationship to Himself.

It was very gracious of GOD to permit His people to become Nazarites. Israel might have been
"a kingdom of priests;" but through their own sin they had nationally forfeited this privilege,
and a special family had been set apart to the priesthood. GOD, however, still opened the way
for individuals who wished to draw near to Him to do so, and for any period which their own
hearts might dictate.

But it is important to notice that though the vow might only be one of temporary consecration,
yet it involved while it lasted an

  ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE

of the will of GOD, even in regard to matters which might appear trivial and unimportant. So,
in the present day, GOD is willing to give to His people fulness of blessing, but it must be
on His own lines. Though we are not our own, it is, alas! possible to live as though we were;
devotion to GOD is still a voluntary thing; hence the differences of attainment among Christians.
While salvation is a free gift, the "winning CHRIST" can only be through unreserved consecration
and unquestioning obedience. Nor is this a hardship, but the highest privilege.

Let us now look into the law of the Nazarite.

IMPLICIT OBEDIENCE: verses 3, 4.

The first thing that we note is, that as the obedience of Adam was tested in the Garden by
the prohibition of one tree--a tree pleasant to look upon, and good for food--so was the obedience
of the Nazarite tested. He was not forbidden to eat poison berries, nor was he merely required
to abstain from the wine and strong drink which might easily become a snare; fresh grapes and
dried raisins were equally prohibited. It was not that the thing was harmful in itself, but
that the doing the will of GOD, in a matter of seeming indifference, was essential to his acceptance.

Not less true is this of the Christian Nazarite. Whether he eat or drink, or whatsoever he
do, the will of GOD and not self-indulgence must be his one aim. Christians often get into
perplexity about worldly allurements by asking, Where is the sin of this, or the danger of
that? There may be danger that the questioner cannot see: Satan's baits often skilfully conceal
a sharp hook; but supposing that the thing be harmless, it does not follow that it would be
pleasing to GOD, or spiritually helpful.

The fruit of the vine is a type of earth-born pleasures; those who would enjoy Nazarite nearness
to GOD must count His love "better than wine." To win CHRIST, the Apostle Paul gladly suffered
the loss of all things, and counted them as dross and dung for the excellency of the knowledge
of CHRIST JESUS his LORD. The things he gave up were not bad things, but good--things that
in themselves were gain to him; and CHRIST Himself for our redemption emptied Himself, and
came to seek not His own, but the will of Him that sent Him.

The highest service demands the greatest sacrifice, but it secures the fullest blessing and
the greatest fruitfulness. CHRIST could not remain in His FATHER'S bosom and redeem the world;
missionaries cannot win the heathen and enjoy their home surroundings; nor can they be adequately
sustained without the loving sacrifices of many friends and donors. You, dear reader, know
the MASTER'S choice; what is YOURS? is it to do His will even if it mean to leave all for Him,
to give all to Him?

ENTIRE CONSECRATION: verse 5.

We have already seen that GOD tested the obedience of the Nazarite in the matter of food: pleasing
GOD was rather to be chosen than the most tempting cluster of grapes. But in the foregoing
words we find that his obedience is further tested, and this in a way which to many might prove
a more severe trial. GOD claims the right of determining the personal appearance of His servant,
and directs that separated ones should be manifestly such. To many minds there is the greatest
shrinking from appearing peculiar; but GOD would often have His people unmistakably peculiar.
We sometimes hear the argument, "all the world" thinks this, or does that, given as a reason
for our doing likewise; but that is an argument that should have no weight with the Christian,
who is commanded not to be conformed to the world. While we are not to seek to be peculiar
for its own sake, we are not to hesitate to be so when duty to GOD renders it necessary, or
when the privilege of self-denial for the benefit of others calls for it.

Further, this command again reminded the Nazarite that he was not his own, but was utterly
the LORD'S; that GOD claimed the very hair of his head. He was not at liberty to cut or trim
it as he saw fit, nor to wear it as long or as short as might be agreeable to himself. So absolute
was GOD'S claim upon him, that not merely while his vow lasted was that hair to be recognised
as GOD'S possession, but when his vow was fulfilled the whole of it was to be shaved off, and
was to be burnt upon the altar. Like the burnt-offering, it was to be recognised as for GOD'S
use alone, whether or not any utilitarian purpose were accomplished by the sacrifice.

So now, in the present dispensation, we are told "the very hairs of your head are all numbered"--so
minute is GOD'S care for His people, so watchful is He over all that affects them. It is beautiful
to see the fond love of a young mother as she passes her fingers through the silken locks of
her darling child--her treasure and her delight; but she never counts those hairs. He only,
who is the source of mother-love, does that! And shall not we, who are not our own, but bought
with a price, gladly render to Him all we are and have--every member of our body, every fibre
of our being, every faculty of our mind, all our will-power, and all our love?

HOLINESS TO THE LORD: verses 6-8. All the days of his separation he is holy unto the LORD."

Here we have a most solemn and important prohibition--to refrain from all uncleanness caused
by contact with death. Death is the wages of sin: the consecrated one was alike to keep aloof
from sin and from its consequences.

