But to return to the work. Having executed there certain scenes, which he hurried over mechanically
and without diligence, and the General complaining of this, Mattaccio said that he worked as
he felt inclined, and that his brush danced to the tune of money, so that, if the General consented
to spend more, he was confident that he could do much better. The General having therefore
promised that he would pay him better for the future, Giovanni Antonio painted three scenes,
which still remained to be executed in the corners, with so much more study and diligence than
he had shown in the others, that they proved to be much finer. In one of these is S. Benedict
departing from Norcia and from his father and mother, in order to go to study in Rome; in the
second, S. Mauro and S. Placido as children, presented to him and offered to God by their fathers;
and in the third, the Goths burning Monte Cassino. For the last, in order to do despite to
the General and the Monks, he painted the story of the priest Fiorenzo, the enemy of S. Benedict,
bringing many loose women to dance and sing around the monastery of that holy man, in order
to tempt the purity of those fathers. In this scene Sodoma, who was as shameless in his painting
as in his other actions, painted a dance of nude women, altogether lewd and shameful; and,
since he would not have been allowed to do it, as long as he was at work he would never let
any of the monks see it. Wherefore, when the scene was uncovered, the General wished by hook
or by crook to throw it to the ground and utterly destroy it; but Mattaccio, after much foolish
talk, seeing that father in anger, clothed all the naked women in that work, which is one of
the best that are there. Under each of these scenes he painted two medallions, and in each
medallion a friar, to represent all the Generals who had ruled that congregation. And, since
he had not their portraits from life, Mattaccio did most of the heads from fancy, and in some
he portrayed old friars who were in the monastery at that time, and in the end he came to paint
the head of the above-named Fra Domenico da Lecco, who was their General in those days, as
has been related, and was causing him to execute that work. But, after some of those heads
had lost the eyes, and others had been damaged, Fra Antonio Bentivogli, the Bolognese, caused
them all to be removed, for good reasons.

Now, while Mattaccio was executing these scenes, there had gone thither, to assume the habit
of a monk, a Milanese nobleman, who had a yellow cloak trimmed with black cords, such as was
worn at that time; and, after he had put on the monk's habit, the General gave that cloak to
Mattaccio, who, by means of a mirror, painted a portrait of himself with it on his back in
one of the scenes, wherein S. Benedict, still almost a child, miraculously puts together and
mends the corn-measure, or rather, tub, of his nurse, which she had broken. At the feet of
the portrait he painted a raven, an ape, and others of his animals. This work finished, he
painted the story of the five loaves and two fishes, with other figures, in the Refectory of
the Monastery of S. Anna, a seat of the same Order, distant five miles from Monte Oliveto;
which work completed, he returned to Siena. There, at the Postierla, he painted in fresco the
façade of the house of M. Agostino de' Bardi of Siena, in which were some things worthy of
praise, but for the most part they have been consumed by time and the weather.

=. Rome: Villa Farnesina)

Braun]

During this time there arrived in Siena Agostino Chigi, a very rich and famous merchant of
that city, and he became acquainted with Giovanni Antonio, both on account of his follies and
because he had the name of a good painter. Wherefore he took him in his company to Rome, where
Pope Julius II was then causing the Papal apartments in the Palace of the Vatican, which Pope
Nicholas V had formerly erected, to be painted; and Chigi so went to work with the Pope, that
some painting was given also to Sodoma. Now Pietro Perugino, who was painting the ceiling of
an apartment that is beside the Borgia Tower, was working at his ease, like the old man that
he was, and was not able to set his hand to anything else, as he had been at first commanded
to do: and there was given to Giovanni Antonio to paint another apartment, which is beside
the one that Perugino was painting. Having therefore set his hand to it, he made the ornamentation
of that ceiling with cornices, foliage, and friezes; and then, in some large medallions, he
executed certain passing good scenes in fresco. But this animal, devoting his attention to
his beasts and his follies, would not press the work forward; and therefore, after Raffaello
da Urbino had been brought to Rome by the architect Bramante, and it had become known to the
Pope how much he surpassed the others, his Holiness ordained that neither Perugino nor Giovanni
Antonio should work any more in the above-named apartments; indeed, that everything should
be thrown to the ground. But Raffaello, who was goodness and modesty in person, left standing
all that had been done by Perugino, who had once been his master; and of Mattaccio's he destroyed
nothing save the inner work and the figures of the medallions and scenes, leaving the friezes
and the other ornaments, which are still round the figures that Raffaello painted there, which
were Justice, Universal Knowledge, Poetry, and Theology.

But Agostino, who was a gentleman, without paying any attention to the affront that Giovanni
Antonio had received, commissioned him to paint in one of his principal apartments, which opens
into the great hall in his Palace in the Trastevere, the story of Alexander going to sleep
with Roxana. In that work, besides other figures, he painted a good number of Loves, some of
whom are unfastening Alexander's cuirass, some are drawing off his boots, or rather, buskins,
some are removing his helmet and dress, and putting them away; others scattering flowers over
the bed, and others, again, doing other suchlike offices. Near the chimney-piece he painted
a Vulcan forging arrows, which was held at that time to be a passing good and praiseworthy
work; and if Mattaccio, who had beautiful gifts and was much assisted by Nature, had given
his attention, after that reversal of fortune, to his studies, as any other man would have
done, he would have made very great proficience. *** the grocer, according to any legal writer, is not oblige to occupy
goods out of a window to oblige a customer.

A proposition that the merchant is anticipate to compel anybody in the circumstances is certainly
the novelty.*** Uxbridge, says the Evening Intelligence, has some platform. Nor have we, but
we make a fuss about it.*** no Bolshevists in Russia, we are told,
are good sowing fruit of misdemeanor.

For a time it has been suspected that a Bolshevik were down to a
new.*** HERBERT Welshman, aged sixty-seven, has begin to walk from
new Jersey to busy Hampshire, Uracil.

Second. no., the manner of five hundred miles. In no absence of fuller
details we assume that HERBERT must have lost his train.

 Which work finished, at the instance
of Agostino Chigi, who was on terms of strait service with the Pope, he presented it to his
Holiness, by whom he was made a Chevalier and rewarded for so beautiful a picture. Whereupon
Giovanni Antonio, believing that he had become a great man, began to be disinclined to work
any more, save when he was driven by necessity. But, after Agostino had gone on some business
to Siena, taking Giovanni Antonio with him, while staying there he was forced, being a Chevalier
without an income, to set himself to painting; and so he painted an altar-piece containing
a Christ taken down from the Cross, on the ground Our Lady in a swoon, and a man in armour
who, having his back turned, shows his front reflected in a helmet that is on the ground, bright
as a mirror. This work, which was held to be, as it is, one of the best that he ever executed,
was placed in S. Francesco, on the right hand as one enters the church. Then in the cloister
that is beside the above-named church, he painted in fresco Christ scourged at the Column,
with many Jews around Pilate, and with a range of columns drawn in perspective after the manner
of wing-walls; in which work Giovanni Antonio made a portrait of himself without any beard--that
is, shaven--and with the hair long, as it was worn at that time.

Not long afterwards he executed some pictures for Signor Jacopo VI of Piombino, and, while
living with him at that place, some other works on canvas. Wherefore by his means, besides
many courtesies and presents that he received from him, Giovanni Antonio obtained from his
island of Elba many little animals such as that island produces, all of which he took to Siena.

=. Florence: Uffizi, 1279)

Anderson]

Arriving next in Florence, a monk of the Brandolini family, Abbot of the Monastery of Monte
Oliveto, which is without the Porta a S. Friano, caused him to paint some pictures in fresco
on the wall of the refectory; but since, like a careless fellow, he did them without study,
they proved to be such that he was derided and mocked at for his follies by those who were
expecting that he would do some extraordinary work. Now, while he was engaged on that work,
having taken a Barbary horse with him to Florence, he set it to run in the race of S. Barnaba;
and, as fortune would have it, the horse ran so much better than the others, that it won. Whereupon,
the boys having, as is the custom, to call out the name or by-name of the owner of the horse
that had won, after the running of the race and the fanfare of trumpets, Giovanni Antonio was
asked what name they were to call out; and, after he had replied, "Sodoma, Sodoma," the boys
called out that name. "i never ran to stags recoil like that before," i interrupted. By th'time I
letter ran him all over, as an'found'e'd be
fit spell to hospital in th'morning, thursday'stag had disappeared.

"" nor
hadn't ratty, "say the person. Insomuch that, a clamour arising, poor Sodoma came within an ace
of being stoned by the boys and the populace, with his horse and the ape that he had with him
on the crupper. Having in the space of many years got together many prizes, won in the same
way by his horses, he took the greatest pride in the world in them, and showed them to all
who came into his house; and very often he made a show of them at his windows.

But to return to his works: he painted for the Company of S. Bastiano in Camollia, beyond the
Church of the Umiliati, on a banner of cloth which is carried in processions, in oils, a nude
S. Sebastian, bound to a tree, who is standing on the right leg, with the left in foreshortening,
and raises the head towards an Angel who is placing a crown upon it. This work is truly beautiful,
and much to be praised. On the reverse side is Our Lady with the Child in her arms, and below
her are S. Gismondo, S. Rocco, and some Flagellants kneeling on the ground. It is said that
some merchants of Lucca offered to give three hundred crowns of gold to the men of that Company
for that picture, but did not obtain it, because the others did not wish to deprive their Company
and the city of so rare a painting. And, in truth, in certain works--whether it was study,
or good fortune, or chance--Sodoma acquitted himself very well; but of such he did very few.
In the Sacristy of the Friars of the Carmine is a picture by the hand of the same master, wherein
is a very beautiful Nativity of Our Lady, with some nurses; and on the corner near the Piazza
de' Tolomei he painted in fresco, for the Guild of Shoemakers, a Madonna with the Child in
her arms, S. John, S. Francis, S. Rocco, and S. Crispino, the Patron Saint of the men of that
Guild, who has a shoe in his hand. In the heads of these figures, and in all the rest, Giovanni
Antonio acquitted himself very well.

In the Company of S. Bernardino of Siena, beside the Church of S. Francesco, he executed some
scenes in fresco in competition with Girolamo del Pacchia, a Sienese painter, and Domenico
Beccafumi--namely, the Presentation of Our Lady in the Temple, when she goes to visit S. Elizabeth,
her Assumption, and when she is crowned in Heaven. In the angles of the same Company he painted
a Saint in episcopal robes, S. Louis, and S. Anthony of Padua; but the best figure of all is
a S. Francis, who, standing on his feet and raising his head, is gazing at a little Angel,
who appears to be in the act of speaking to him; the head of which S. Francis is truly marvellous.
In the Palazzo de' Signori at Siena, likewise, in a hall, he painted some little tabernacles
full of columns and little children, with other ornaments; and within these tabernacles are
various figures. In one is S. Vittorio armed in the ancient fashion, with the sword in his
hand; near him, in the same manner, is S. Ansano, who is baptizing certain persons; in another
is S. Benedict; and all are very beautiful. In the lower part of that Palace, where salt is
sold, he painted a Christ who is returning to life, with some soldiers about the Sepulchre,
and two little Angels, held to be passing beautiful in the heads. Farther on, over a door,
is a Madonna with the Child in her arms, painted by him in fresco, and two Saints.

=. Siena: Palazzo Pubblico)

Alinari]

In S. Spirito he painted the Chapel of S. Jacopo, which he did at the commission of the men
of the Spanish colony, who have their place of burial there; depicting there an image of the
Madonna after the ancient manner, with S. Nicholas of Tolentino on the right hand, and, on
the left, the Archangel S. Michael, who is slaying Lucifer. It was a night, the bracken underfoot damp an'sodden, an'th'tall firs
looking grim an's-ostly fra th'gloom.

I doan't know the habits o'stags.'"ratty scrounges a prime rope after'somewheers, an'we creeps out in
their nightfall.
 Below all this, on the sides of the altar,
are painted in fresco S. Anthony the Abbot and a nude S. Sebastian at the Column, which are
held to be passing good works.

=. Siena: S. Bernardino, Oratory)

Alinari]

