It is very imprudent, it is tragic--but, ah, it is so beautiful! Bit by bit these poor people
have given up everything else; but to this they cling with all the power of their souls--they
cannot give up the veselija! To do that would mean, not merely to be defeated, but to acknowledge
defeat--and the difference between these two things is what keeps the world going. The veselija
has come down to them from a far-off time; and the meaning of it was that one might dwell within
the cave and gaze upon shadows, provided only that once in his lifetime he could break his
chains, and feel his wings, and behold the sun; provided that once in his lifetime he might
testify to the fact that life, with all its cares and its terrors, is no such great thing after
all, but merely a bubble upon the surface of a river, a thing that one may toss about and play
with as a juggler tosses his golden balls, a thing that one may quaff, like a goblet of rare
red wine. Thus having known himself for the master of things, a man could go back to his toil
and live upon the memory all his days.

Endlessly the dancers swung round and round--when they were dizzy they swung the other way.
Hour after hour this had continued--the darkness had fallen and the room was dim from the light
of two smoky oil lamps. The musicians had spent all their fine frenzy by now, and played only
one tune, wearily, ploddingly. There were twenty bars or so of it, and when they came to the
end they began again. Once every ten minutes or so they would fail to begin again, but instead
would sink back exhausted; a circumstance which invariably brought on a painful and terrifying
scene, that made the fat policeman stir uneasily in his sleeping place behind the door.

It was all Marija Berczynskas. Marija was one of those hungry souls who cling with desperation
to the skirts of the retreating muse. All day long she had been in a state of wonderful exaltation;
and now it was leaving--and she would not let it go. Her soul cried out in the words of Faust,
"Stay, thou art fair!" Whether it was by beer, or by shouting, or by music, or by motion, she
meant that it should not go. And she would go back to the chase of it--and no sooner be fairly
started than her chariot would be thrown off the track, so to speak, by the stupidity of those
thrice accursed musicians. Each time, Marija would emit a howl and fly at them, shaking her
fists in their faces, stamping upon the floor, purple and incoherent with rage. In vain the
frightened Tamoszius would attempt to speak, to plead the limitations of the flesh; in vain
would the puffing and breathless ponas Jokubas insist, in vain would Teta Elzbieta implore.
"Szalin!" Marija would scream. "Palauk! isz kelio! What are you paid for, children of hell?"
And so, in sheer terror, the orchestra would strike up again, and Marija would return to her
place and take up her task.

She bore all the burden of the festivities now. Ona was kept up by her excitement, but all
of the women and most of the men were tired--the soul of Marija was alone unconquered. She
drove on the dancers--what had once been the ring had now the shape of a pear, with Marija
at the stem, pulling one way and pushing the other, shouting, stamping, singing, a very volcano
of energy. Now and then some one coming in or out would leave the door open, and the night
air was chill; Marija as she passed would stretch out her foot and kick the doorknob, and slam
would go the door! Once this procedure was the cause of a calamity of which Sebastijonas Szedvilas
was the hapless victim. Little Sebastijonas, aged three, had been wandering about oblivious
to all things, holding turned up over his mouth a bottle of liquid known as "pop," pink-colored,
ice-cold, and delicious. Passing through the doorway the door smote him full, and the shriek
which followed brought the dancing to a halt. Marija, who threatened horrid murder a hundred
times a day, and would weep over the injury of a fly, seized little Sebastijonas in her arms
and bid fair to smother him with kisses. There was a long rest for the orchestra, and plenty
of refreshments, while Marija was making her peace with her victim, seating him upon the bar,
and standing beside him and holding to his lips a foaming schooner of beer.

In the meantime there was going on in another corner of the room an anxious conference between
Teta Elzbieta and Dede Antanas, and a few of the more intimate friends of the family. A trouble
was come upon them. The veselija is a compact, a compact not expressed, but therefore only
the more binding upon all. Every one's share was different--and yet every one knew perfectly
well what his share was, and strove to give a little more. Now, however, since they had come
to the new country, all this was changing; it seemed as if there must be some subtle poison
in the air that one breathed here--it was affecting all the young men at once. They would come
in crowds and fill themselves with a fine dinner, and then sneak off. One would throw another's
hat out of the window, and both would go out to get it, and neither could be seen again. Or
now and then half a dozen of them would get together and march out openly, staring at you,
and making fun of you to your face. Still others, worse yet, would crowd about the bar, and
at the expense of the host drink themselves sodden, paying not the least attention to any one,
and leaving it to be thought that either they had danced with the bride already, or meant to
later on.

All these things were going on now, and the family was helpless with dismay. So long they had
toiled, and such an outlay they had made! Ona stood by, her eyes wide with terror. Those frightful
bills--how they had haunted her, each item gnawing at her soul all day and spoiling her rest
at night. How often she had named them over one by one and figured on them as she went to work--fifteen
dollars for the hall, twenty-two dollars and a quarter for the ducks, twelve dollars for the
musicians, five dollars at the church, and a blessing of the Virgin besides--and so on without
an end! Worst of all was the frightful bill that was still to come from Graiczunas for the
beer and liquor that might be consumed. One could never get in advance more than a guess as
to this from a saloonkeeper--and then, when the time came he always came to you scratching
his head and saying that he had guessed too low, but that he had done his best--your guests
had gotten so very drunk. By him you were sure to be cheated unmercifully, and that even though
you thought yourself the dearest of the hundreds of friends he had. He would begin to serve
your guests out of a keg that was half full, and finish with one that was half empty, and then
you would be charged for two kegs of beer. He would agree to serve a certain quality at a certain
price, and when the time came you and your friends would be drinking some horrible poison that
could not be described. You might complain, but you would get nothing for your pains but a
ruined evening; while, as for going to law about it, you might as well go to heaven at once.
The saloonkeeper stood in with all the big politics men in the district; and when you had once
found out what it meant to get into trouble with such people, you would know enough to pay
what you were told to pay and shut up.

What made all this the more painful was that it was so hard on the few that had really done
their best. There was poor old ponas Jokubas, for instance--he had already given five dollars,
and did not every one know that Jokubas Szedvilas had just mortgaged his delicatessen store
for two hundred dollars to meet several months' overdue rent? And then there was withered old
poni Aniele--who was a widow, and had three children, and the rheumatism besides, and did washing
for the tradespeople on Halsted Street at prices it would break your heart to hear named. Aniele
had given the entire profit of her chickens for several months. Eight of them she owned, and
she kept them in a little place fenced around on her backstairs. All day long the children
of Aniele were raking in the dump for food for these chickens; and sometimes, when the competition
there was too fierce, you might see them on Halsted Street walking close to the gutters, and
with their mother following to see that no one robbed them of their finds. Money could not
tell the value of these chickens to old Mrs. Jukniene--she valued them differently, for she
had a feeling that she was getting something for nothing by means of them--that with them she
was getting the better of a world that was getting the better of her in so many other ways.
So she watched them every hour of the day, and had learned to see like an owl at night to watch
them then. One of them had been stolen long ago, and not a month passed that some one did not
try to steal another. As the frustrating of this one attempt involved a score of false alarms,
it will be understood what a tribute old Mrs. Jukniene brought, just because Teta Elzbieta
had once loaned her some money for a few days and saved her from being turned out of her house.

More and more friends gathered round while the lamentation about these things was going on.
Some drew nearer, hoping to overhear the conversation, who were themselves among the guilty--and
surely that was a thing to try the patience of a saint. Finally there came Jurgis, urged by
some one, and the story was retold to him. Jurgis listened in silence, with his great black
eyebrows knitted. Now and then there would come a gleam underneath them and he would glance
about the room. Perhaps he would have liked to go at some of those fellows with his big clenched
fists; but then, doubtless, he realized how little good it would do him. No bill would be any
less for turning out any one at this time; and then there would be the scandal--and Jurgis
wanted nothing except to get away with Ona and to let the world go its own way. So his hands
relaxed and he merely said quietly: "It is done, and there is no use in weeping, Teta Elzbieta."
Then his look turned toward Ona, who stood close to his side, and he saw the wide look of terror
in her eyes. "Little one," he said, in a low voice, "do not worry--it will not matter to us.
We will pay them all somehow. I will work harder." That was always what Jurgis said. Ona had
grown used to it as the solution of all difficulties--"I will work harder!" He had said that
in Lithuania when one official had taken his passport from him, and another had arrested him
for being without it, and the two had divided a third of his belongings. He had said it again
in New York, when the smooth-spoken agent had taken them in hand and made them pay such high
prices, and almost prevented their leaving his place, in spite of their paying. Now he said
it a third time, and Ona drew a deep breath; it was so wonderful to have a husband, just like
a grown woman--and a husband who could solve all problems, and who was so big and strong!

The last sob of little Sebastijonas has been stifled, and the orchestra has once more been
reminded of its duty. The ceremony begins again--but there are few now left to dance with,
and so very soon the collection is over and promiscuous dances once more begin. It is now after
midnight, however, and things are not as they were before. The dancers are dull and heavy--most
of them have been drinking hard, and have long ago passed the stage of exhilaration. They dance
in monotonous measure, round after round, hour after hour, with eyes fixed upon vacancy, as
if they were only half conscious, in a constantly growing stupor. The men grasp the women very
tightly, but there will be half an hour together when neither will see the other's face. Some
couples do not care to dance, and have retired to the corners, where they sit with their arms
enlaced. Others, who have been drinking still more, wander about the room, bumping into everything;
some are in groups of two or three, singing, each group its own song. As time goes on there
is a variety of drunkenness, among the younger men especially. Some stagger about in each other's
arms, whispering maudlin words--others start quarrels upon the slightest pretext, and come
to blows and have to be pulled apart. Now the fat policeman wakens definitely, and feels of
his club to see that it is ready for business. He has to be prompt--for these two-o'clock-in-the-morning
fights, if they once get out of hand, are like a forest fire, and may mean the whole reserves
at the station. The thing to do is to crack every fighting head that you see, before there
are so many fighting heads that you cannot crack any of them. There is but scant account kept
of cracked heads in back of the yards, for men who have to crack the heads of animals all day
seem to get into the habit, and to practice on their friends, and even on their families, between
times. This makes it a cause for congratulation that by modern methods a very few men can do
the painfully necessary work of head-cracking for the whole of the cultured world.

There is no fight that night--perhaps because Jurgis, too, is watchful--even more so than the
policeman. Jurgis has drunk a great deal, as any one naturally would on an occasion when it
all has to be paid for, whether it is drunk or not; but he is a very steady man, and does not
easily lose his temper. Only once there is a tight shave--and that is the fault of Marija Berczynskas.
Marija has apparently concluded about two hours ago that if the altar in the corner, with the
deity in soiled white, be not the true home of the muses, it is, at any rate, the nearest substitute
on earth attainable. And Marija is just fighting drunk when there come to her ears the facts
about the villains who have not paid that night. Marija goes on the warpath straight off, without
even the preliminary of a good cursing, and when she is pulled off it is with the coat collars
of two villains in her hands. Fortunately, the policeman is disposed to be reasonable, and
so it is not Marija who is flung out of the place.

