Among the lumbermen of Alger, Michigan, was William Cloud, an Indian, usually called Cloudy,
who was much employed on a chute a mile and a half out of the village. The rains were heavy
one spring, and a large raft of logs had been floated down to the chute, where they were held
back by a gate until it was time to send them through in a mass. When the creek had reached
its maximum height the foreman gave word to the log-drivers to lower the gate and let the timber
down. This order came on a chilly April night, and, as it was pitchy dark and rain was falling
in sheets, the lumbermen agreed to draw cuts to decide which of them should venture out and
start the logs. Cloudy drew the fatal slip. He was a quiet fellow, and without a word he opened
the door, bent against the storm, and passed into the darkness. An hour went by, and the men
in the cabin laughed as they described the probable appearance of their comrade when he should
return, soaked through and through, and they wondered if he was waiting in some shelter beside
the path for the middle of the night to pass, for the Indians believed that an evil spirit
left the stream every night and was abroad until that hour.

As time lengthened the jest and talk subsided and a moody silence supervened. At length one
of the number resolved to sally out and see if any mishap had fallen to the Indian. He was
joined by three others, and the party repaired to the creek. Above the chute it was seen that
the gate--which was released by the withdrawal of iron pins and sank of its own weight-had
not quite settled into place, and by the light of a lantern held near the surface of the rushing
current an obstruction could be dimly seen. The gate was slightly raised and the object drawn
up with pike-poles. It was the mangled body of Cloudy. He was buried beside the creek; but
the camp was soon abandoned and the chute is in decay, for between the hours of ten and twelve
each night the wraith of the Indian, accompanied by the bad spirit of the stream, ranges through
the wood, his form shining blue in the gloom, his groans sounding above the swish and lap of
the waters.

THE SUN FIRE AT SAULT SAINTE MARIE

Father Marquette reached Sault Sainte Marie, in company with Greysolon Du Lhut, in August,
1670, and was received in a manner friendly enough, but the Chippewas warned him to turn back
from that point, for the Ojibways beyond were notoriously hostile to Europeans, their chief--White
Otter--having taken it on himself to revenge, by war, his father's desertion of his mother.
His father was a Frenchman. Inspired by his mission, and full of the enthusiasm of youth and
of the faith that had led him safely through a host of dangers and troubles, Marquette refused
to change his plans, and even ventured the assertion that he could tame the haughty Otter and
bring him to the cross. At dawn he and his doughty henchman set off in a war-canoe, but, on
arriving in White Otter's camp and speaking their errand, they were seized and bound, to await
death on the morrow. The wife of the chief spoke, out of the kindness of her heart, and asked
mercy for the white men. To no avail. The brute struck her to the ground. That night his daughter,
Wanena, who had seen Du Lhut at the trading post and had felt the stir of a generous sentiment
toward him, appeared before the prisoners when sleep was heaviest in the camp, cut their bonds,
led them by an obscure path to the river, where she enjoined them to enter a canoe, and guided
the boat to the Holy Isle. This was where the Ojibways came to lay offerings before the image
of Manitou, whose home was there believed to be. There the friendly red men would be sure to
find and rescue them, she thought, and after a few hours of sleep she led them into a secluded
glen where stood the figure rudely carved from a pine trunk, six feet high, and tricked with
gewgaws. As they stood there, stealthy steps were heard, and before they could conceal themselves
White Otter and eight of his men were upon them. Du Lhut grasped a club from among the weapons
that--with other offerings--strewed the earth at the statue's feet and prepared to sell his
life dearly. The priest drew forth his crucifix and prayed. The girl dropped to the ground,
drew her blanket over her head, and began to sing her death-song.

"So the black-coat and the woman-stealer have come to die before the Indian's god?" sneered
the chief.

"If it be God's will, we will die defying your god and you," replied Marquette. "Yet we fear
not death, and if God willed he could deliver us as easily as he could destroy that worthless
image." He spoke in an undertone to Du Lhut, and continued, confidently, "challenge your god
to withstand mine. I shall pray my God to send his fire from the sky and burn this thing. If
he does so will you set us free and become a Christian?"

"I will; but if you fail, you die."

"And if I win you must pardon your daughter."

White Otter grunted his assent.

The sun was high and brought spicy odors from the wood; an insect hummed drowsily, and a bird-song
echoed from the distance. Unconscious of what was being enacted about her, Wanena kept rocking
to and fro, singing her death-song, and waiting the blow that would stretch her at her father's
feet. The savages gathered around the image and watched it with eager interest. Raising his
crucifix with a commanding gesture, the priest strode close to the effigy, and in a loud voice
cried, in Chippewa, "In the name of God, I command fire to destroy this idol!"

A spot of light danced upon the breast of the image. It grew dazzling bright and steady. Then
a smoke began to curl from the dry grass and feathers it was decked with. The Indians fell
back in amazement, and when a faint breeze passed, fanning the sparks into flame, they fell
on their faces, trembling with apprehension, for Marquette declared, "As my God treats this
idol, so can he treat you!"

Then, looking up to see the manitou in flames, White Otter exclaimed, "The white man's God
has won. Spare us, O mighty medicine!"

"I will do so, if you promise to become as white men in the faith and be baptized." Tamed by
fear, the red men laid aside their weapons and knelt at a brook where Marquette, gathering
water in his hands, gave the rite of baptism to each, and laid down the moral law they were
to live by. Wanena, who had fainted from sheer fright when she saw the idol burning, was restored,
and it may be added that the priest who Christianized her also married her to Du Lhut, who
prospered and left his name to the city of the lake. News of the triumph of the white men's
God went far and wide, and Marquette found his missions easier after that. Du Lhut alone, of
all those present, was in the father's secret. He had perpetrated a pious fraud, justified
by the results as well as by his peril. A burning-glass had been fastened to the crucifix,
and with that he had destroyed the idol.

Trading thus on native ignorance a Frenchman named Lyons at another time impressed the Indians
at Dubuque and gained his will by setting a creek on fire. They did not know that he had first
poured turpentine over it.

THE SNAKE GOD OF BELLE ISLE

The Indian demi-god, Sleeping Bear, had a daughter so beautiful that he kept her out of the
sight of men in a covered boat that swung on Detroit River, tied to a tree on shore; but the
Winds, having seen her when her father had visited her with food, contended so fiercely to
possess her that the little cable was snapped and the boat danced on to the keeper of the water-gates,
who lived at the outlet of Lake Huron. The keeper, filled with admiration for the girl's beauty,
claimed the boat and its charming freight, but he had barely received her into his lodge when
the angry Winds fell upon him, buffeting him so sorely that he died, and was buried on Peach
Island (properly Isle au Peche), where his spirit remained for generations--an oracle sought
by Indians before emprise in war. His voice had the sound of wind among the reeds, and its
meanings could not be told except by those who had prepared themselves by fasting and meditation
to receive them. Before planning his campaign against the English, Pontiac fasted here for
seven days to "clear his ear" and hear the wisdom of the sighing voice.

But the Winds were not satisfied with the slaying of the keeper. They tore away his meadows
and swept them out as islands. They smashed the damsel's boat and the little bark became Belle
Isle. Here Manitou placed the girl, and set a girdle of vicious snakes around the shore to
guard her and to put a stop to further contests. These islands in the straits seem to have
been favorite places of exile and theatres of transformation. The Three Sisters are so called
because of three Indian women who so scolded and wrangled that their father was obliged to
separate them and put one on each of the islands for the sake of peace.

It was at Belle Isle that the red men had put up and worshipped a natural stone image. Hearing
of this idol, on reaching Detroit, Dollier and De Galinee crossed over to it, tore it down,
smashed it, flung the bigger piece of it into the river, and erected a cross in its place.
The sunken portion of the idol called aloud to the faithful, who had assembled to wonder at
the audacity of the white men and witness their expected punishment by Manitou, and told them
to cast in the other portions. They did so, and all the fragments united and became a monster
serpent that kept the place from further intrusion. Later, when La Salle ascended the straits
in his ship, the Griffin, the Indians on shore invoked the help of this, their manitou, and
strange forms arose from the water that pushed the ship into the north, her crew vainly singing
hymns with a hope of staying the demoniac power.

WERE-WOLVES OF DETROIT

Long were the shores of Detroit vexed by the Snake God of Belle Isle and his children, the
witches, for the latter sold enchantments and were the terror of good people. Jacques Morand,
the coureur de bois, was in love with Genevieve Parent, but she disliked him and wished only
to serve the church. Courting having proved of no avail, he resolved on force when she had
decided to enter a convent, and he went to one of the witches, who served as devil's agent,
to sell his soul. The witch accepted the slight commodity and paid for it with a grant of power
to change from a man's form to that of a were-wolf, or loup garou, that he might the easier
bear away his victim. Incautiously, he followed her to Grosse Pointe, where an image of the
Virgin had been set up, and as Genevieve dropped at the feet of the statue to implore aid,
the wolf, as he leaped to her side, was suddenly turned to stone.

Harder was the fate of another maiden, Archange Simonet, for she was seized by a were-wolf
at this place and hurried away while dancing at her own wedding. The bridegroom devoted his
life to the search for her, and finally lost his reason, but he prosecuted the hunt so vengefully
and shrewdly that he always found assistance. One of the neighbors cut off the wolf's tail
with a silver bullet, the appendage being for many years preserved by the Indians. The lover
finally came upon the creature and chased it to the shore, where its footprint is still seen
in one of the bowlders, but it leaped into the water and disappeared. In his crazy fancy the
lover declared that it had jumped down the throat of a catfish, and that is why the French
Canadians have a prejudice against catfish as an article of diet.

The man-wolf dared as much for gain as for love. On the night that Jean Chiquot got the Indians
drunk and bore off their beaver-skins, the wood witches, known as "the white women," fell upon
him and tore a part of his treasure from him, while a were-wolf pounced so hard on his back
that he lost more. He drove the creatures to a little distance, but was glad to be safe inside
of the fort again, though the officers laughed at him and called him a coward. When they went
back over the route with him they were astonished to find the grass scorched where the women
had fled before him, and little springs in the turf showed where they had been swallowed up.
Sulphur-water was bubbling from the spot where the wolf dived into the earth when the trader's
rosary fell out of his jacket. Belle Fontaine, the spot was called, long afterward.

THE ESCAPE OF FRANCOIS NAVARRE

When the Hurons came to Sandwich, opposite the Michigan shore, in 1806, and camped near the
church for the annual "festival of savages," which was religious primarily, but incidentally
gastronomic, athletic, and alcoholic, an old woman of the tribe foretold to Angelique Couture
that, ere long, blood would be shed freely and white men and Indians would take each other's
lives. That was a reasonably safe prophecy in those days, and, though Angelique repeated it
to her friends, she did not worry over it. But when the comet of 1812 appeared the people grew
afraid--and with cause, for the war soon began with England. The girl's brothers fought under
the red flag; her lover, Francois Navarre, under the stars and stripes.

The cruel General Proctor one day passed through Sandwich with prisoners on his way to the
Hurons, who were to put them to death in the usual manner. As they passed by, groaning in anticipation
of their fate, foot-sore and covered with dust, Angelique nearly swooned, for among them she
recognized her lover. He, too, had seen her, and the recognition had been noticed by Proctor.
Whether his savage heart was for the moment softened by their anguish, or whether he wished
to heighten their pain by a momentary taste of joy, it is certain that on reaching camp he
paroled Francrois until sunset. The young man hastened to the girl's house, and for one hour
they were sadly happy. She tried to make him break his parole and escape, but he refused, and
as the sun sank he tore himself from her arms and hastened to rejoin his companions in misery.

His captors admired him for this act of honor, and had he so willed he could have been then
and there received into their tribe. As it was, they allowed him to remain unbound. Hardly
had the sun gone down when a number of boats drew up at the beach with another lot of prisoners,
and with yells of rejoicing the Indians ran to the river to drive them into camp. Francois's
opportunity was brief, but he seized it. In the excitement he had been unobserved. He was not
under oath now, and with all speed he dashed into the wood. Less than a minute had elapsed
before his absence was discovered, but he was a cunning woodman, and by alternately running
and hiding, with gathering darkness in his favor, he had soon put the savages at a distance.

A band of English went to Angelique's home, thinking that he would be sure to rejoin her; but
he was too shrewd for that, and it was in vain that they fired guns up the chimneys and thrust
bayonets into beds. Angelique was terrified at this intrusion, but the men had been ordered
not to injure the woman, and she was glad, after all, to think that Francois had escaped. Some
days later one of the Hurons came to her door and pointed significantly to a fresh scalp that
hung at his belt. In the belief that it was her lover's she grew ill and began to fade, but
one evening there came a faint tap at the door. She opened it to find a cap on the door-step.

There was no writing, yet her heart rose in her bosom and the color came back to her cheeks,
for she recognized it as her lover's. Later, she learned that Francois had kept to the forest
until he reached the site of Walkerville, where he had found a canoe and reached the American
side in safety. She afterward rejoined him in Detroit, and they were married at the end of
the war, through which he served with honor and satisfaction to himself, being enabled to pay
many old scores against the red-coats and the Indians.

THE OLD LODGER

In 1868 there died in Detroit a woman named Marie Louise Thebault, more usually called Kennette.
She was advanced in years, and old residents remembered when she was one of the quaintest figures
and most assertive spirits in the town, for until a few years before her death she was rude
of speech, untidy in appearance, loved nothing or respected nothing unless it might be her
violin and her money, and lived alone in a little old house on the river-road to Springwells.
Though she made shoes for a living, she was of so miserly a nature that she accepted food from
her neighbors, and in order to save the expense of light and fuel she spent her evenings out.
Yet she read more or less, and was sufficiently acquainted with Volney, Voltaire, and other
skeptics to shock her church acquaintances. Love of gain, not of company, induced her to lease
one of her rooms to a pious old woman, from whom she got not only a little rent, but the incidental
use of her fuel and light.

When the pious one tried to win her to the church it angered her, and then, too, she had a
way of telling ghost stories that Kennette laughed at. One of these narratives that she would
dwell on with especial self-conviction was that of Lieutenant Muir, who had left his mistress,
when she said No to his pleadings, supposing that she spoke the truth, whereas she was merely
trying to be coquettish.

He fell in an attack on the Americans that night, and came back, bleeding, to the girl who
had made him throw his life away; he pressed her hand, leaving the mark of skeleton fingers
there, so that she always kept it gloved afterward. Then there was the tale of the two men
of Detroit who were crushed by a falling tree: the married one, who was not fatally hurt, begged
his mate to call his wife, as soon as his soul was free, and the woman, hearing the mournful
voice at her door, as the spirit passed on its way to space, ran out and rescued her husband
from his plight. She told, too, of the feu follet, or will-o'-the-wisp, that led a girl on
Grosse Isle to the swamp where her lover was engulfed in mire and enabled her to rescue him.
There was Grand'mere Duchene, likewise, who worked at her spinning-wheel for many a night after
death, striking fear to her son's heart, by its droning, because he had not bought the fifty
masses for the repose of her soul, but when he had fulfilled the promise she came no more.
Another yarn was about the ghost-boat of hunter Sebastian that ascends the straits once in
seven years, celebrating his return, after death, in accordance with the promise made to Zoe,
his betrothed, that--dead or alive--he would return to her from the hunt at a certain time.

To all this Kennette turned the ear of scorning. "Bah!" she cried. "I don't believe your stories.
I don't believe in your hell and your purgatory. If you die first, come back. If I should,
and I can, I will come. Then we may know whether there is another world."

The bargain was made to this effect, but the women did not get on well together, and soon Kennette
had an open quarrel with her lodger that ended by her declaring that she never could forgive
her, but that she would hold her to her after-death compact. The lodger died, and while talking
of her death at the house of a neighbor a boy, who had arrived from town, casually asked Kennette--knowing
her saving ways--why she had left the light burning in her house. Grasping a poker, she set
off at once to punish the intruder who had dared to enter in her absence, but when she arrived
there was no light. On several evenings the light was reported by others, but as she was gadding
in the neighborhood she never saw it until, one night, resolved to see for herself, she returned
early, softly entered at the back door, and went to bed. Hardly had she done so when she saw
a light coming up-stairs. Sitting bolt upright in bed she waited. The light came up noiselessly
and presently stood in the room--not a lantern or candle, but a white phosphorescence. It advanced
toward her, changing its form until she saw a cloudy likeness to a human being. For the first
time in her life she feared. "Come no nearer!" she cried. "I know you. I believe you, and I
forgive."

The light vanished. From that night it was remarked that Kennette began to age fast--she began
to change and become more like other women. She went to church and her face grew softer and
kinder. It was the only time that she saw the spirit, but the effect of the visit was permanent.

THE NAIN ROUGE

Among all the impish offspring of the Stone God, wizards and witches, that made Detroit feared
by the early settlers, none were more dreaded than the Nain Rouge (Red Dwarf), or Demon of
the Strait, for it appeared only when there was to be trouble. In that it delighted. It was
a shambling, red-faced creature, with a cold, glittering eye and teeth protruding from a grinning
mouth. Cadillac, founder of Detroit, having struck at it, presently lost his seigniory and
his fortunes. It was seen scampering along the shore on the night before the attack on Bloody
Run, when the brook that afterward bore this name turned red with the blood of soldiers. People
saw it in the smoky streets when the city was burned in 1805, and on the morning of Hull's
surrender it was found grinning in the fog. It rubbed its bony knuckles expectantly when David
Fisher paddled across the strait to see his love, Soulange Gaudet, in the only boat he could
find--a wheel-barrow, namely--but was sobered when David made a safe landing.

It chuckled when the youthful bloods set off on Christmas day to race the frozen strait for
the hand of buffer Beauvais's daughter Claire, but when her lover's horse, a wiry Indian nag,
came pacing in it fled before their happiness. It was twice seen on the roof of the stable
where that sour-faced, evil-eyed old mumbler, Jean Beaugrand, kept his horse, Sans Souci--a
beast that, spite of its hundred years or more, could and did leap every wall in Detroit, even
the twelve-foot stockade of the fort, to steal corn and watermelons, and that had been seen
in the same barn, sitting at a table, playing seven-up with his master, and drinking a liquor
that looked like melted brass. The dwarf whispered at the sleeping ear of the old chief who
slew Friar Constantine, chaplain of the fort, in anger at the teachings that had parted a white
lover from his daughter and led her to drown herself--a killing that the red man afterward
confessed, because he could no longer endure the tolling of a mass bell in his ears and the
friar's voice in the wind.

