If anybody wished that they saw what they meant to see then they would see that anything is
something. If anything is something then explaining is explaining and explaining being explaining
explaining is that thing. Explaining being that thing, anything being something, then wishing
to be seeing what they are meaning to be seeing is something and that being something deciding
is something. Deciding being something, saying something is saying something.

If some one said something he said that thing, if some one answered something he answered that
thing, if they both were then being living any one could be hearing what any one would be hearing.
Being finishing and being beginning are being meeting and leaving.

He says that he has said what he said and that changing he is not repeating what he has been
saying.

She says that she has said what she said and that changing she is repeating what she has said.

A new thing having come it is a new thing and being a new thing and repeating being existing
it is a new thing.

One if he is talking is saying that he is feeling all that he is feeling. He is saying that
he is feeling all that he is feeling.

He is saying that feeling all that he is feeling he is saying that he is feeling all that he
is feeling.

Donger was not quicker than he would have been if he did not say all that he did say. He was
not slower, he was not quicker.

If every one said something and every one is saying anything if any one said something every
one would be certain that any one could be tired enough to say what any one says. Saying what
any one says is saying everything and any one can be certain that any one can be tired enough
to say everything.

Saying everything is what any one saying that they are saying what is being said is saying
they can be saying and saying they can be saying everything they can be tired enough in having
been saying everything.

Murdock did say that if one were very tired one could come to be completely tired. Murdock
did say that being completely tired one was not so tired but that one could look for a way
to find what one wanted to find so that one could have a way of saying what one would be saying
if one were saying everything. Murdock in not being tired was not troubled that he was quite
tired. He was troubled that being tired is being tired and being tired is being certain that
everything is everything.

Murdock is not tired. Murdock is not tired because he does not tire when he is hoping that
he will not be completing not finding that which he is not persisting in expecting. Murdock
is not tired.

There is a way of not being tired. There is a way of coming to know that having a way of doing
what one is doing one can do what one does do. Clellan is saying, and he would be tired if
one could be tired in saying what he is saying, that having a way of doing what one does one
can do what one does. He is saying this thing. He is saying that any one can be tired and every
one is tired and not being tired one can do what one does do when one has a way of doing what
one does. He is saying that that is all that thing.

He is saying that going to be doing what one is doing is making the doing of that thing a thing
to complete tiring the one doing that thing. He is saying that going to be doing what one is
doing is what he is not going to be doing again. He is going to do what he does in the way
he does what he does. He says that all of that thing is all of that thing.

Enough come so that somebody hears something. Enough go so that hardly anybody is left. Enough
are left so that some hear what they hear. Some come where they did not hear and some go where
they will see what was seen.

If many come then many are here and if few come then a few are here and if they are here often
they come again and coming again they hear what they hear.

