+Cruikshank.--The Life of Sir John Falstaff+, illustrated in a Series of Twenty-four original
Etchings by George Cruikshank. Accompanied by an imaginary Biography of the Knight, by ROBERT
B. BROUGH. Royal 8vo. price 12s. 6d. cloth.

+Lady Cust's Invalid's Own Book:+ A Collection of Recipes from various Books and various Countries.
Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

+The Rev. Canon Dale's Domestic Liturgy and Family Chaplain, in Two Parts:+ PART I. Church
Services adapted for Domestic Use, with Prayers for Every Day of the Week, selected from the
Book of Common Prayer; PART II. an appropriate Sermon for Every Sunday in the Year. Second
Edition. Post 4to. 21s. cloth; 31s. 6d. calf; or £2. 10s. morocco.

            {THE FAMILY CHAPLAIN, 12s.
Separately: {THE DOMESTIC LITURGY, 10s. 6d.

+Davies.--Algiers in 1857:+ Its Accessibility, Climate, and Resources described with especial
reference to English Invalids; with details of Recreation obtainable in its Neighbourhood added
for the use of Travellers in general. By the Rev. E. W. L. DAVIES, M.A. Oxon. Post 8vo. 6s.

+Delabeche.--Report on the Geology of Cornwall, Devon, and West Somerset.+ By Sir H. T. DELABECHE,
F.R.S. With Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts. 8vo. 14s.

+Davy (Dr. J.)--The Angler and his Friend;+ or, Piscatory Colloquies and Fishing Excursions.
By JOHN DAVY, M.D., F.R.S., &c. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

By the same Author,

+The Angler in the Lake District;+ or, Piscatory Colloquies and Fishing Excursions in Westmoreland
and Cumberland. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 6d.

+De la Rive's Treatise on Electricity in Theory and Practice.+ Translated for the Author by
C. V. WALKER, F.R.S. 3 vols. 8vo. Woodcuts, £3. 13s.

+Abbé Domenech's Missionary Adventures in Texas and Mexico:+ A Personal Narrative of Six Years'
Sojourn in those Regions. Translated from the French under the Author's superintendence. 8vo.
10s. 6d.

+The Eclipse of Faith;+ or, a Visit to a Religious Sceptic. 9th Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Defence of The Eclipse of Faith, by its Author:+ Being a Rejoinder to Professor Newman's Reply:
Including a full Examination of that Writer's Criticism on the Character of Christ; and a Chapter
on the Aspects and Pretensions of Modern Deism. Second Edition, revised. Post 8vo. 5s. 6d.

+The Englishman's Greek Concordance of the New Testament:+ Being an Attempt at a Verbal Connexion
between the Greek and the English Texts; including a Concordance to the Proper Names, with
Indexes, Greek-English and English-Greek. New Edition, with a new Index. Royal 8vo. 42s.

+The Englishman's Hebrew and Chaldee Concordance of the Old Testament:+ Being an Attempt at
a Verbal Connexion between the Original and the English Translations; with Indexes, a List
of the Proper Names and their Occurrences, &c. 2 vols. royal 8vo. £3. 13s. 6d.; large paper,
£4. 14s. 6d.

+Ephemera's Handbook of Angling;+ teaching Fly-fishing, Trolling, Bottom-Fishing, Salmon-Fishing:
With the Natural History of River-Fish, and the best Modes of Catching them. Third Edition,
corrected and improved; with Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Ephemera's Book of the Salmon:+ The Theory, Principles, and Practice of Fly-Fishing for Salmon;
Lists of good Salmon Flies for every good River in the Empire; the Natural History of the Salmon,
its Habits described, and the best way of artificially Breeding it. Fcp. 8vo. with coloured
Plates, 14s.

+Fairbairn.--Useful Information for Engineers:+ Being a Series of Lectures delivered to the
Working Engineers of Yorkshire and Lancashire. By WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN, F.R.S., F.G.S. Second
Edition; with Plates and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+Fischer.--Francis Bacon of Verulam:+ Realistic Philosophy and its Age. By Dr. K. FISCHER.
Translated by JOHN OXENFORD. Post 8vo. 9s. 6d. With coloured Map; and numerous Lithographic
and Woodcut Illustrations from Drawings made during the Tour by Lieut.-Col. M. A. Biddulph,
R.A. Imperial 8vo. 28s.

+Garratt.--Marvels and Mysteries of Instinct;+ or, Curiosities of Animal Life. By GEORGE GARRATT.
Second Edition, improved. Fcp. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

+Gilbart.--A Practical Treatise on Banking.+ By JAMES WILLIAM GILBART, F.R.S., General Manager
of the London and Westminster Bank. Sixth Edition. 2 vols. 12mo. 16s.

+Gilbart.--Logic for the Million:+ a Familiar Exposition of the Art of Reasoning, By J. W.
GILBART, F.R.S. 5th Edition; with Portrait. 12mo. 3s. 6d.

+Gleig.--Essays, Biographical, Historical, and Miscellaneous+, contributed chiefly to the Edinburgh
and Quarterly Reviews. 8vo. price 21s.

+The Poetical Works of Oliver Goldsmith.+ Edited by BOLTON CORNEY, Esq. Illustrated by Wood
Engravings, from Designs by Members of the Etching Club. Square crown 8vo. cloth, 21s.; morocco,
£1. 16s.

+Gosse.--A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica.+ By P. H. GOSSE, Esq. With Plates. Post 8vo. 14s.

+Greathed.--Letters from Delhi during the Siege.+ By H. H. GREATHED, Esq., Political Agent.
Post 8vo.

+Green.--Lives of the Princesses of England.+ By Mrs. MARY ANNE EVERETT GREEN, Editor of the
Letters Of Royal and Illustrious Ladies. With numerous Portraits. Complete in 6 vols. post
8vo. 10s. 6d. each.

+Greyson.--Selections from the Correspondence of R. E. GREYSON, Esq.+ Edited by the Author
of The Eclipse of Faith. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+Grove.--The Correlation of Physical Forces.+ By W. R. GROVE, Q.C., M.A. Third Edition. 8vo. 7s.

+Gurney.--St. Louis and Henri IV.:+ Being a Second Series of Historical Sketches. By the Rev.
JOHN H. GURNEY, M.A. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+Evening Recreations;+ or, Samples from the Lecture-Room. Edited by Rev. J. H. GURNEY. Crown
8vo. 5s.

+Gwilt's Encyclopædia of Architecture, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical.+ By JOSEPH GWILT.
With more than 1,000 Wood Engravings, from Designs by J. S. GWILT. 8vo. 42s.

+Hare (Archdeacon).--The Life of Luther, in Forty-eight Historical Engravings.+ By GUSTAV KÖNIG.
With Explanations by Archdeacon HARE and SUSANNAH WINKWORTH. Fcp. 4to. 28s.

+Harford.--Life of Michael Angelo Buonarroti:+ With Translations of many of his Poems and Letters;
also Memoirs of Savonarola, Raphael, and Vittoria Colonna. By JOHN S. HARFORD, Esq., D.C.L.,
F.R.S. Second Edition, revised; with 20 Plates. 2 vols. 8vo. 25s.

+Illustrations, Architectural and Pictorical, of the Genius of Michael Angelo Buonarroti.+
With Descriptions of the Plates, by the Commendatore CANINA; C. R. COCKERELL, Esq., R.A.; and
J. S. HARFORD, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S. Folio, 73s. 6d. half-bound.

+Harrison.--The Light of the Forge;+ or, Counsels from the Sick-Bed of E. M. By the Rev. W.
HARRISON, M.A., Domestic Chaplain to the Duchess of Cambridge. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Harry Hieover's Stable Talk and Table Talk;+ or, Spectacles for Young Sportsmen. New Edition.
2 vols. 8vo. Portrait, 24s.

+Harry Hieover.--The Hunting-Field.+ By HARRY HIEOVER. With Two Plates. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. half-bound.
By HARRY HIEOVER. Fcp. 8vo. Portrait, 6s.

+Harry Hieover.--The Stud, for Practical Purposes and Practical Men:+ Being a Guide to the
Choice of a Horse for use more than for show. Fcp. 5s.

+Hassall.--A History of the British Freshwater Algæ:+ Including Descriptions of the Desmideæ
and Diatomaceæ. By ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. With 103 Plates, £1. 15s.

+Hassall.--Adulterations Detected;+ or, Plain Instructions for the Discovery of Frauds in Food
and Medicine. By ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M.D. Lond., Analyst of The Lancet Sanitary Commission,
and Author of the Reports of that Commission published under the title of Food and its Adulterations
(which may also be had, in 8vo. price 28s.) With 225 Illustrations, engraved on Wood. Crown
8vo. 17s. 6d.

+Col. Hawker's Instructions to Young Sportsmen in all that relates to Guns and Shooting.+ 10th
Edition, revised by the Author's Son, Major P. W. L. HAWKER. With Portrait, Plates, and Woodcuts.
8vo. 21s.

+Haydn's Book of Dignities:+ Containing Rolls of the Official Personages of the British Empire,
Civil, Ecclesiastical, Judicial, Military, Naval, and Municipal, from the Earliest Periods
to the Present Time. Together with the Sovereigns of Europe, from the Foundation of their respective
States; the Peerage and Nobility of Great Britain, &c. 8vo. 25s.

+Hayward.--Biographical and Critical Essays+, reprinted from Reviews, with Additions and Corrections.
By A. HAYWARD, Esq., Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s.

+The Heirs of Cheveleigh:+ A Novel. By GERVAISE ABBOTT. 3 vols. post 8vo. 31s. 6d.

+Sir John Herschel's Outlines of Astronomy.+ Fifth Edition, revised and corrected to the existing
state of astronomical knowledge; with Plates and Woodcuts. 8vo. 18s.

+Sir John Herschel's Essays from the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews+, with Addresses and other
Pieces. 8vo. 18s.

+Hinchliff.--Summer Months among the Alps:+ With the Ascent of Monte Rosa. By THOS. W. HINCHLIFF,
Barrister-at-Law. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+Hints on Etiquette and the Usages of Society:+ With a Glance at Bad Habits. New Edition, revised
(with Additions) by a Lady of Rank. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

+Holland.--Medical Notes and Reflections.+ By Sir HENRY HOLLAND, M.D., F.R.S., &c., Physician
in Ordinary to the Queen and Prince-Consort. Third Edition. 8vo. 18s.

+Holland.--Chapters on Mental Physiology.+ By Sir HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., F.R.S., &c. Founded
chiefly on Chapters contained in Medical Notes and Reflections by the same Author. Second Edition.
Post 8vo. 8s. 6d.

+Hooker.--Kew Gardens;+ or, a Popular Guide to the Royal Botanic Gardens of Kew. By Sir WILLIAM
JACKSON HOOKER, K.H., &c., Director. With many Woodcuts. 16mo. 6d.

+Hooker's Museum of Economic Botany;+ or, Popular Guide to the Useful and Remarkable Vegetable
Products of the Museum in the Royal Gardens of Kew. 16mo. 1s.

+Hooker and Arnott's British Flora;+ comprising the Phænogamous or Flowering Plants, and the
Ferns. Seventh Edition, with Additions and Corrections; and numerous Figures illustrative of
the Umbelliferous Plants, the Composite Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. 12mo. with 12 Plates,
14s.; with the Plates coloured, 21s.

+Horne's Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures.+ Tenth Edition,
revised, corrected, and brought down to the present time. Edited by the Rev. T. HARTWELL HORNE,
B.D. (the Author); the Rev. SAMUEL DAVIDSON, D.D. of the University of Halle, and LL.D.; and
S. PRIDEAUX TREGELLES, LL.D. With 4 Maps and 22 Vignettes and Facsimiles. 4 vols. 8vo. £3. 13s. 6d.

+Horne.--A Compendious Introduction to the Study of the Bible.+ By the Rev. T. HARTWELL HORNE,
B.D. New Edition, with Maps, &c. 12mo. 9s.

+Hoskyns.--Talpa; or, the Chronicles of a Clay Farm:+ An Agricultural Fragment. By CHANDOS
WREN HOSKYNS, Esq. Fourth Edition. With 24 Woodcuts from Designs by GEORGE CRUIKSHANK. 16mo.
5s. 6d.

+How to Nurse Sick Children:+ Intended especially as a Help to the Nurses in the Hospital for
Sick Children; but containing Directions of service to all who have the charge of the Young.
Fcp. 8vo. 1s. 6d.

+Howitt (A. M.)--An Art-Student in Munich.+ By ANNA MARY HOWITT. 2 vols. post 8vo. 14s.

+Howitt.--The Children's Year.+ By MARY HOWITT. With Four Illustrations. Square 16mo. 5s.

+Howitt.--Tallangetta, the Squatter's Home:+ A Story of Australian Life. By WILLIAM HOWITT.
2 vols. post 8vo. 18s.

+Howitt.--Land, Labour, and Gold;+ or, Two Years in Victoria: With Visit to Sydney and Van
Diemen's Land. By WILLIAM HOWITT. Second Edition. 2 vols. crown 8vo. 10s. With about 80 Wood
Engravings. New Edition. 2 vols. square crown 8vo. 25s.

+William Howitt's Boy's Country Book:+ Being the Real Life of a Country Boy, written by himself;
exhibiting all the Amusements, Pleasures, and Pursuits of Children in the Country. With 40
Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+William Howitt's Rural Life of England.+ With Woodcuts by Bewick and Williams. Medium 8vo.
21s. VOLS. I. and II. 8vo. 21s.; and VOL. III. 10s. 6d.

+Huc.--The Chinese Empire:+ A Sequel to Huc and Gabet's Journey through Tartary and Thibet.
By the Abbé HUC, formerly Missionary Apostolic in China. Second Edition; with Map. 2 vols.
8vo. 24s.

+Hudson and Kennedy's Ascent of Mont Blanc by a New Route and Without Guides.+ Second Edition,
with Plate and Map. Post 8vo. 5s. 6d.

+Hudson's Plain Directions for Making Wills in conformity with the Law:+ With a clear Exposition
of the Law relating to the distribution of Personal Estate in the case of Intestacy, two Forms
of Wills, and much useful information. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

+Hudson's Executor's Guide.+ New and improved Edition; with the Statutes enacted, and the Judicial
Decisions pronounced since the last Edition incorporated. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+Humboldt's Cosmos.+ Translated, with the Author's authority, by Mrs. SABINE. VOLS. I. and
II. 16mo. Half-a-Crown each, sewed; 3s. 6d. each, cloth; or in post 8vo. 12s. each, cloth.
VOL. III. Post 8vo. 12s. 6d. cloth: or in 16mo. Part I. 2s. 6d. sewed, 3s. 6d. cloth; and Part
II. 3s. sewed, 4s. cloth. VOL. IV. Part I. post 8vo. 15s. cloth; 16mo. 7s. 6d. cloth.

+Humboldt's Aspects of Nature.+ Translated, with the Author's authority, by Mrs. SABINE. 16mo.
price 6s.: or in 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each, cloth; 2s. 6d. each, sewed.

+Humphreys.--Parables of Our Lord+, illuminated and ornamented in the style of the Missals
of the Renaissance by H. N. HUMPHREYS. Square fcp. 8vo. 21s. in massive carved covers; or 30s.
bound in morocco, by Hayday.

+Hunt.--Researches on Light in its Chemical Relations;+ embracing a Consideration of all the
Photographic Processes. By ROBERT HUNT, F.R.S. Second Edition, with Plate and Woodcuts 8vo.
10s. 6d.

+Hutchinson.--Impressions of Western Africa:+ With a Report on the Peculiarities of Trade up
the Rivers in the Bight of Biafra. By J. T. HUTCHINSON, Esq., British Consul for the Bight
of Biafra and the Island of Fernando Po. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d.

+Idle.--Hints on Shooting, Fishing, &c., both on Sea and Land, and in the Fresh-Water Lochs
of Scotland:+ Being the Experiences of C. IDLE, Esq. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Mrs. Jameson's Legends of the Saints and Martyrs, as represented in Christian Art:+ Forming
the FIRST SERIES of Sacred and Legendary Art. Third Edition; with 17 Etchings and upwards of
180 Woodcuts. 2 vols. square crown 8vo. 81s. 6d. Square crown 8vo. 28s. Square crown 8vo. 28s.

+Mrs. Jameson's Commonplace-Book of Thoughts, Memories, and Fancies, Original and Selected.+
Second Edition, revised and corrected; with Etchings and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. price 18s.

+Mrs. Jameson's Two Lectures on the Employment of Women+:--

     1. SISTERS of CHARITY, Catholic and Protestant, Abroad and at
     Home. Second Edition, with new Preface. Fcp. 8vo. 4s.

     2. The COMMUNION of LABOUR: A Second Lecture on the Social
     Employments of Women. Fcp. 8vo. 3s.

+Jaquemet's Compendium of Chronology:+ Containing the most important Dates of General History,
Political, Ecclesiastical, and Literary, from the Creation of the World to the end of the Year
1854. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d. Fcp. 8vo. 3s. 6d.

+Lord Jeffrey's Contributions to The Edinburgh Review.+ A New Edition, complete in One Volume,
with Portrait and Vignette. Square crown 8vo. 21s. cloth; or 30s. calf.--Or in 3 vols. 8vo.
price 42s. Now complete in 10 vols. 8vo. 10s. 6d. each.

+Kemble.--The Saxons in England:+ A History of the English Commonwealth till the Conquest.
By J. M. KEMBLE, M.A. 2 vols. 8vo. 28s.

+Keith Johnston's Dictionary of Geography. Descriptive, Physical, Statistical, and Historical:+
Forming a complete General Gazetteer of the World. Second Edition, thoroughly revised. In 1
vol. of 1,360 pages, comprising about 50,000 Names of Places, 8vo. 36s. cloth; or half-bound
in russia, 41s.

+Kesteven.--A Manual of the Domestic Practice of Medicine.+ By W. B. KESTEVEN, F.R.C.S.E.,
&c. Square post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+Kirby and Spence's Introduction to Entomology;+ or, Elements of the Natural History of Insects;
Comprising an Account of Noxious and Useful Insects, of their Metamorphoses, Food, Stratagems,
Habitations, Societies, Motions, Noises, Hybernation, Instinct, &c. Seventh Edition, with an
Appendix relative to the Origin and Progress of the work. Crown 8vo. 5s.

+Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopædia of History, Biography, Literature, the Arts and Sciences, Natural
History, and Manufactures.+ A Series of Original Works by EMINENT WRITERS. Complete in 132
vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, price £19. 19s. cloth lettered.

The Works separately, in single Volumes or Sets, price 3s. 6d. each Volume, cloth lettered.

+Mrs. R. Lee's Elements of Natural History;+ or, First Principles of Zoology: Comprising the
Principles of Classification, interspersed with amusing and instructive Accounts of the most
remarkable Animals. New Edition; Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+The Letters of a Betrothed.+ Fcp. 8vo. price 5s. cloth.

+Letters to my Unknown Friends.+ By a LADY, Author of Letters on Happiness. Fourth Edition.
Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Letters on Happiness, addressed to a Friend.+ By the Author of Letters to my Unknown Friends.
Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+L. E. L.--The Poetical Works of Letitia Elizabeth Landon;+ comprising the Improvisatrice,
the Venetian Bracelet, the Golden Violet, the Troubadour, and Poetical Remains. 2 vols. 16mo.
10s. cloth; morocco, 21s.

+Dr. John Lindley's Theory and Practice of Horticulture;+ or, an Attempt to explain the principal
Operations of Gardening upon Physiological Grounds: Being the Second Edition of the Theory
of Horticulture, much enlarged; with 93 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s.

+Dr. John Lindley's Introduction to Botany.+ New Edition, with corrections and copious Additions.
2 vols. 8vo. with Plates and Woodcuts, 24s.

+Linwood.--Anthologia Oxoniensis,+ sive Florilegium e Lusibus poeticis diversorum Oxoniensium
Græcis et Latinis decerptum. Curante GULIELMO LINWOOD, M.A. 8vo. 14s.

+Lorimer's Letters to a Young Master Mariner on some Subjects connected with his Calling.+
Fcp. 

This point of view, the bad, often to the patency mechanism sinking down methods, the failed acquisition
of many important skills and mental skills has gradually the knowledge of the Latin language of
their claims, as the principal science to apply, and their long alleged dignity, and almost universal
means of education ausschlieslich to be discontinued. She has stopped to be regarded as an end, and this
spiritual Employment, however, has called objects, and below normal daily, sensual things leave
no educational materials are capable of over herself conversant'll have to see. Without contrasts
in this and the other provisions in their exaggerations or Outside enter into a collision,
it is sufficient here to rejoice the wise relationship, which our very highest government has
set herein.

First, is the same with the perfection of the German national schools the general citizen education extended,
it will thereby provides all the resources essential to them as people and for their stand to
learn useful, those who lacked the Better yet, is thereby guaranteed respecting the same, but
to those who, for something better than the inadequate general Receive instruction could access only
to the said means of education is the same made expendable and replaced by proper knowledge
and skills .-- Also the local city provides the complete organization of the largest parts
of the remaining Kingdom of already proven boon forward to - a boon to their important Consequences
for the whole thing difficult to calculate.

Second, the study of science and the acquisition of higher mental and useful Skills in their independence
from the old literature, in a separate sister institution get their full resources.

Third, finally, the old language study has been preserved. It is sometimes still higher than Educational
resources open to everyone, but sometimes it is based on thorough studies of the learned been
secured. By the same is now entered in addition to that, it's his ausschlieslich become forfeited
and may have erased the hate against his former pretensions. So entered on the page, it has
to demand the more the law, that in his deposition GRANT may and free of strange and disturbing
interference also remain undisturbed.

Through this separation and restriction, it has its true position and the opportunity get to
be able to develop more freely and fully. The real hallmark of of freedom and strength of an
organization is, if the distinct moments, it contains, to delve into and make the completed system,
without envy and Fear driving next to each other their work and see it drift, and that all the
parts again just of a whole are. Only that which is completely isolated in his principle does,
is a consistent whole, ie there is something, it gains depth and the strong possibility of diversity.
The concern and anxiety about one-sidedness is accustomed to frequently anzugehoeren the weakness,
the only versatile inconsistent superficiality is capable.

If now is the study of ancient languages ​​like before the foundation of the learned education,
it has been in this restriction really extended. There seems to be a just demand to be that the culture,
art and science of a people to their own Legs are to come. We allowed the formation of the modern
world, our clarification and the progress of arts and sciences do not believe that the Greek
and have represented Roman children's shoes, outgrown its old-strings on their own Land can
be based? The works of the ancients would like her after all, bigger or smaller value remain troubled,
but they had in the series of memories, learned of idle Sights to repudiate the mere historical,
the record could be or not, but not the absolute basis for our higher spiritual development
and Beginning would have to make.

Let us apply it, however, that at all presumed to be excellent, so is for the higher studies in
Greek literature primarily, and then the Romans, the basis to be and to remain. The perfection
and glory of these masterpieces have the intellectual Bad be the secular baptism, which the soul
and the first captive tone and tincture science of taste and give up. And to this inauguration
is not a general exterior sufficiently acquainted with the old, but we have to them in food
and provide housing to their air, their ideas, their customs, even if you will, their errors
and prejudices and to suck in this world are indigenous - the most beautiful, which was is.

If the first paradise was the paradise of human nature, this is the
second, higher, Paradise of the human mind, the most beautiful in
its naturalness, freedom, depth and serenity as the bride emerges
from her room.

The first wild splendor of its emergence in the East by the glory of the form is defined and reduced
to beauty; it has its depth is not everything in the confusion, Truebseligkeit or conceit,
but it lies open in uninhibited clarity, and his cheerfulness is not a childish game hergebreitet
but about the sadness that knows the harshness of fate, but through them not about the freedom
and it is driven from the ground. I do not think too much to say when I say that anyone who works
for the elderly is not known, has lived without the beauty of knowing.

In such elements now, by us [is] ors, it's not just that all the forces of soul inspired, developed
and practiced, but the same is a peculiar Material, through which we enrich ourselves and better
prepare our substance.

It has been said that the Geistestaetigkeit can be practiced at any substances, and as the most appropriate
material appeared in part Externally practically useful, and sometimes
the sensible objects, the juvenile or the child's age are the most
appropriate by the parties and all belonged to the type of representation,
which this age already and have for themselves.

If maybe, maybe not in the formal matter, the practice of self- respect to this circle, on which
to do it, so can be separated and indifferent on the other hand might
be, it is not about practicing to do alone.

Like the plant that forces its reproduction of light and air not only acts but also in the
processes of their Food sucks, then the material on which the mind at all and the fortune of
the soul develop and exercise at the same time be a food. Not those so-called useful substances,
those sensuous materiality, as it falls directly into the mode of conception of the child, only
the intellectual content, which value and interest in and of itself has reinforced, the Soul and gives
them support independent, this substantial inward, which Mother of form, of sound mind, is
the present and the guards of the mind, he created the great soul drawn to it for a purpose
that only the basis of usefulness to all accounts and it is important to instill in all classes.
We have not in recent Times even states himself that such an inner light in the soul of their
relatives maintain and develop neglected and despised them on the mere usefulness and in the
intellectual and only as a means directed, and stand in danger haltungslos zusammenstuerzen
in the middle of its many useful resources to see?

The finest food material now and in the noblest form, the golden apples in silver bowls, include
the works of the ancients, and incomparably more than any other Weke any time and nation. I
need to the grandeur of her sentiments, her plastic, of moral Ambiguity-free
virtue and patriotism, to the grand scale of their actions and characters,
the diversity of their destinies, their customs and constitutions
only to remember the assertion to justify that to the extent not so
much education admirable, admirable, Original, versatile and informative
was united.

This wealth but is bound by the language, and only in and through this we reach it in all its peculiarity.
The contents give us some translations, but not the form, not the ethereal soul of it. They are
like the fake roses shape, color, as well as the odor may be naturally similar, but the loveliness Delicacy
and softness of life do not reach those. Or other delicacy and Fineness of the copy belongs only to
that at which a contrast between the content and not with him the
adult form makes itself felt.

Language is the musical element, the element of intimacy that disappears in the transmission,
- the subtle scent, by the the sympathy of the soul is to enjoy, but without the work of the
ancients only taste such as the Rhine wine that is into thin air.

This situation presents us with the hard translucent need the languages ​​of the Old thoroughly
to study and to make us familiar with their works in the most possible extent of all to be
able to enjoy their sides and superiority. If we are about the struggles that we in this would have
to apply to complain, and it could fear or regret, the acquisition other knowledge and skills
to have to return and share about it, so we would have the fate to complain that we are not
in our own language has given this group of classical works will
be that we made the journey to ancient times muehevolle expendable
and replacement the same for granted.

After I spoke of the materials of education, leads to this desire, some Words to say about the
formal, that is in their nature.

The progress of education is not given as the quiet continuation of a chain to see at its former
members but with the following would Ruecksicht them together, but matter on its own and without
this further work would be directed against the former.

But the education must have a former substance and subject on which she works, they formed
and changed again.

It is necessary that we acquire the world of antiquity, so in order to possess her, even more than
to have something that we process .-- But to to be subject to, the substance of the nature and
spirit are confronted be, they must have received the form of something alien to .-- misfortune,
which his immediate world of feelings is alienated, for this means nothing else than that the
individual bonds that befriend the mind and thoughts to the holy life of faith, Love and trust, he
is torn - For the alienation that the theoretical condition Education is not that these calls
moral pain, not the suffering of the heart, but the ease of pain and effort of the imagination,
with a non-immediate, an alien, with a bit of memory, the memory and thinking relatives offering
jobs for .-- This requirement of separation but is so necessary that they be considered a known
in general and drive us MATTER. The strangeness, the distance the attractive leads Interest,
arising from the invites to the employment and effort, and the Desirable is in inverse ratio to the
vicinity in which it stands and the public is with us. represents the youth of it as a blessing to
get away from the locals and with Robinson to inhabit a distant island. It is a necessary deception,
the first depth in the form the distance to have to look, but the depth and strength that we
gain can only be the distance to be measured, in which we flew from the central points in which
we were first buried and where we strive again.

On these Zentrifugaltrieb the soul is based now at all the need for divorce it seeks from its
natural character and condition, proffering her own and a distant, to have to put into another world
in the young mind. The partition, however, so this Separation for the formation of which is discussed
here, is accomplished, the world and language the elderly, but it that separates us from us
will contain the same time all the initial points and threads the return to itself, the friends
with her and the rediscovery of himself, but its true to the general
nature of the mind.

This common need which the world of imagination so much as to be the language this includes, when
we apply them to the learning of the latter, is self-evident that the mechanical side of it is more
than just a necessary evil. For the mechanical is [the] spirit of strangers, for whom it has
interest that put into it Undigested to digest, communicating to him even in inanimate things
and make it his own.

With the mechanical factors of language learning connects anyway once the grammatical Studies,
where the value can not be overestimated, for it is the beginning of the logical formation from
- a site that I touch even recently, because they almost forgotten come seems to be. The grammar
has the categories namely, the peculiar products and provisions of
the mind for its content, in her words Catch the understanding of
self, to be learned.

These spiritual beings, that makes us first known, something highly barrel wonderland for the young,
and probably nothing spiritual [is] more intelligible than they; not yet comprehensive because
the power of this age, the rich can, in its manifold not included, but those are the very simple abstractions.
They are, as the single letter, namely, the vowels of the spiritual, with which we begin to spell, [to]
it and to learn to read then. - Then it also carries the grammar to that age appropriate Art
ago by the same characteristics by external aid, which the language itself usually contains different,
teaches, something better than anyone can distinguish red and blue, without the definitions of
these colors according to Newton's hypothesis, or any other theory to be able to specify ranges
that knowledge through the time being, and it is highly important in this discrepancies have
been alerted. For if the mind conditions because We are intelligent beings, are in us and we understand
them immediately, there is The first is education, they have to say they made the subject of consciousness
to have to be able to distinguish and by features.

By learning the grammatical terminology and abstractions are moving in this Study as the elemental
philosophy to see is it will not only significantly as means but as an end - both in the Latin
than in the German language teaching - considered.
 By JOHN
PHILLIPS, F.R.S., F.G.S., &c. 8vo. with 60 Plates, 9s.

+Piesse's Art of Perfumery, and Methods of Obtaining the Odours of Plants;+ with Instructions
for the Manufacture of Perfumes for the Handkerchief, Scented Powders, Odorous Vinegars, Dentifrices,
Pomatums, Cosmétiques, Perfumed Soap, &c.; and an Appendix on the Colours of Flowers, Artificial
Fruit Essences, &c. Second Edition; Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

+Captain Portlock's Report on the Geology of the County of Londonderry, and of Parts of Tyrone
and Fermanagh, examined and described under the Authority of the Master-General and Board of
Ordnance.+ 8vo. with 48 Plates, 24s.

+Powell.--Essays on the Spirit of the Inductive Philosophy, the Unity of Worlds, and the Philosophy
of Creation.+ By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A., &c. Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, 12s. 6d.

+Powell.--Christianity without Judaism.+ A Second Series of Essays on the Unity of Worlds and
of Nature. By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A., &c. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+Pycroft.--The Collegian's Guide;+ or, Recollections of College Days: Setting forth the Advantages
and Temptations of a University Education. By the Rev. J. PYCROFT, B.A. Second Edition. Fcp.
8vo. 6s.

+Pycroft's Course of English Reading;+ or, How and What to Read: Adapted to every taste and
capacity. With Literary Anecdotes. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Pycroft's Cricket-Field;+ or, the Science and History of the Game of Cricket. Second Edition;
Plates and Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Quatrefages (A. De).--Rambles of a Naturalist on the Coasts of France, Spain, and Sicily.+
By A. DE QUATREFAGES, Memb. Inst. Translated by E. C. OTTÉ. 2 vols. post 8vo. 15s.

+Raikes (C.)--Notes on the Revolt in the North-Western Provinces of India.+ By CHARLES RAIKES,
Judge of the Sudder Court, and late Civil Commissioner with Sir Colin Campbell. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+Raikes (T.)--Portion of the Journal kept by THOMAS RAIKES, Esq., from 1831 to 1847:+ Comprising
Reminiscences of Social and Political Life in London and Paris during that period. 2 vols.
crown 8vo. price 12s.

+Rarey.--A Complete Treatise on the Science of Handling, Educating, and Taming all Horses;+
with a full and detailed Narrative of his Experience and Practice. By JOHN S. RAREY, of Ohio,
U.S. In 1 vol. with numerous Illustrations. [Just ready.

+Dr. Reece's Medical Guide:+ Comprising a complete Modern Dispensatory, and a Practical Treatise
on the distinguishing Symptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure, and Palliation of the Diseases incident
to the Human Frame. Seventeenth Edition, corrected and enlarged by Dr. H. REECE. 8vo. 12s.

+Reade.--The Poetical Works of John Edmund Reade.+ New Edition, revised and corrected, with
Additional Poems. 4 vols. fcp. 8vo. 20s.

+Rees.--Personal Narrative of the Siege of Lucknow, from its commencement to its Relief by
Sir Colin Campbell.+ By L. E. REES, one of the surviving Defenders. Third Edition. Post 8vo.
price 9s. 6d.

+Rich's Illustrated Companion to the Latin Dictionary and Greek Lexicon;+ Forming a Glossary
of all the Words representing Visible Objects connected with the Arts, Manufactures, and Every-Day
Life of the Ancients. With about 2,000 Woodcuts from the Antique. Post 8vo. 21s.

+Richardson.--Fourteen Years' Experience of Cold Water:+ Its Uses and Abuses. By Captain M.
RICHARDSON. Post 8vo. Woodcuts, 6s.

+Horsemanship;+ or, the Art of Riding and Managing a Horse, adapted to the Guidance of Ladies
and Gentlemen on the Road and in the Field: With Instructions for Breaking-in Colts and Young
Horses. By Captain RICHARDSON, late of the 4th Light Dragoons. With 5 Plates. Square crown
8vo. 14s.

+Household Prayers for Four Weeks:+ With additional Prayers for Special Occasions. To which
is added a Course of Scripture Reading for Every Day in the Year. By the Rev. J. E. RIDDLE,
M.A. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

+Riddle's Complete Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary, for the use of Colleges and
Schools.+ New Edition, revised and corrected. 8vo. 21s.

+Riddle's Diamond Latin-English Dictionary.+ A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation
of Latin Classical Words. Royal 32mo. 4s.

+Riddle's Copious and Critical Latin-English Lexicon+, founded on the German-Latin Dictionaries
of Dr. William Freund. Post 4to. 31s. 6d.

+Rivers's Rose-Amateur's Guide;+ containing ample Descriptions of all the fine leading variety
of Roses, regularly classed in their respective Families; their History and Mode of Culture.
Sixth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 3s. 6d.

+Dr. E. Robinson's Greek and English Lexicon to the Greek Testament.+ A New Edition, revised
and in great part re-written. 8vo. 18s.

+Mr. Henry Rogers's Essays selected from Contributions to the Edinburgh Review.+ Second Edition,
with Additions. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. 21s. Fifth Edition, revised and improved. Fifth Edition;
with 20 new-coloured Plates. 8vo. 14s.

+Rowton's Debater:+ A Series of complete Debates, Outlines of Debates, and Questions for Discussion;
with ample References to the best Sources of Information. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+Dr. C. W. Russell's Life of Cardinal Mezzofanti:+ With an Introductory Memoir of eminent Linguists,
Ancient and Modern. With Portrait and Facsimiles. 8vo. 12s.

+The Saints our Example.+ By the Author of Letters to my Unknown Friends, &c. Fcp. 8vo. 7s.

+Scherzer.--Travels in the Free States of Central America:+ Nicaragua, Honduras, and San Salvador.
By Dr. CARL SCHERZER. 2 vols. post 8vo. 16s.

+SchimmelPenninck (Mrs.)--Life of Mary Anne SchimmelPenninck, Author of Select Memoirs of Port
Royal, and other Works.+ Edited by her relation, CHRISTIANA C. HANKIN. 2 vols. post 8vo. with
Portrait, 15s.

+Dr. L. Schmitz's History of Greece, from the Earliest Times to the Taking of Corinth by the
Romans, B.C. 146, mainly based upon Bishop Thirlwall's History.+ Fifth Edition, with Nine new
Supplementary Chapters on the Civilisation, Religion, Literature, and Arts of the Ancient Greeks,
contributed by C. H. WATSON, M.A. Trin. Coll. Camb.; also a Map of Athens and 137 Woodcuts
designed by G. Scharf, jun., F.S.A. 12mo. 7s. 6d.

+Scoffern (Dr.)--Projectile Weapons of War and Explosive Compounds.+ By J. SCOFFERN, M.B. Lond.,
late Professor of Chemistry in the Aldersgate College of Medicine. Third Edition. Post 8vo.
Woodcuts, 8s. 6d.

+Scrivenor's History of the Iron Trade, from the Earliest Records to the Present Period.+ 8vo.
10s. 6d.

+Sir Edward Seaward's Narrative of his Shipwreck, and consequent Discovery of certain Islands
in the Caribbean Sea.+ 2 vols. post 8vo. 21s.

+The Sermon in the Mount.+ Printed by C. Whittingham, uniformly with the Thumb Bible. 61mo. 1s. 6d.

+Sewell (Miss).--New Edition of the Tales and Stories of the Author of Amy Herbert+, in 9 vols.
crown 8vo. price £1. 10s. cloth; or each work complete in one volume, separately as follows:--

AMY HERBERT .................. 2s. 6d. GERTRUDE ..................... 2s. 6d. The EARL'S DAUGHTER
.......... 2s. 6d. The EXPERIENCE of LIFE ....... 2s. 6d. CLEVE HALL ................... 3s.
6d. IVORS, or the TWO COUSINS .... 3s. 6d. KATHARINE ASHTON ............. 3s. 6d. MARGARET
PERCIVAL ............ 5s. 0d. LANETON PARSONAGE ............ 4s. 6d.

By the same Author, New Editions,

+Ursula: A Tale of English Country Life.+ 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 12s.

+Readings for every Day in Lent:+ Compiled from the Writings of Bishop JEREMY TAYLOR. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

+Readings for a Month preparatory to Confirmation:+ Compiled from the Works of Writers of the
Early and of the English Church. Fcp. 8vo. 4s. Illustrated with 36 Woodcut Vignettes. The Library
Edition, in One volume, medium 8vo. price 21s.; a Pocket Edition, in 6 vols. fcp. 8vo. price
5s. each.

+Sharp's New British Gazetteer+, or Topographical Dictionary of the British Islands and narrow
Seas: Comprising concise Descriptions of about 60,000 Places, Seats, Natural Features, and
Objects of Note, founded on the best authorities. 2 vols. 8vo, £2. 16s.

+Short Whist; its Rise, Progress, and Laws:+ With Observations to make any one a Whist-Player.
Containing also the Laws of Piquet, Cassino, Ecarté, Cribbage, Backgammon. By Major A. New
Edition; with Precepts for Tyros, by Mrs. B. Fcp. 8vo. 3s.

+Sinclair.--The Journey of Life.+ By CATHERINE SINCLAIR, Author of The Business of Life. Fcp.
8vo. 5s.

+Sir Roger De Coverley.+ From the Spectator. With Notes and Illustrations, by W. HENRY WILLS;
and 12 Wood Engravings from Designs by F. TAYLER. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.; or 21s. in morocco by
Hayday.

+The Sketches: Three Tales.+ By the Authors of Amy Herbert, The Old Man's Home, and Hawkstone.
Fcp. 8vo. price 4s. 6d.

+Smee's Elements of Electro-Metallurgy.+ Third Edition, revised; with Electrotypes and numerous
Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+Smith (G.)--History of Wesleyan Methodism+. By GEORGE SMITH, F.A.S., Author of Sacred Annals,
&c. VOL. I. Wesley and his Times; VOL. II. The Middle Age of Methodism, from 1791 to 1816.
Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. each.

+Smith (G. V.)--The Prophecies relating to Nineveh and the Assyrians.+ Translated from the
Hebrew, with Historical Introductions and Notes, exhibiting the principal Results of the recent
Discoveries. By GEORGE VANCE SMITH, B.A. Post 8vo. 10s. By JAMES SMITH, F.R.S. With Charts,
Views, and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

+A Memoir of the Rev. Sydney Smith.+ By his Daughter, LADY HOLLAND. With a Selection from his
Letters, edited by Mrs. AUSTIN. New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 28s.

+The Rev. Sydney Smith's Miscellaneous Works.+ Including his Contributions to The Edinburgh
Review. Three Editions:--

     1. A LIBRARY EDITION (the Fourth), in 3 vols. Another NEW EDITION, in 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. 21s.

+The Rev. Sydney Smith's Elementary Sketches of Moral Philosophy+, delivered at the Royal Institution
in the Years 1804 to 1806, Fcp. 8vo. 7s.

+Snow.--Two Tears' Cruise off Tierra del Fuego, the Falkland Islands, Patagonia, and in the
River Plate:+ A Narrative of Life in the Southern Seas. By W. PARKER SNOW, late Commander or
the Mission Yacht Allen Gardiner. With Charts and Illustrations, 2 vols. post 8vo. 24s.

+Robert Southey's Complete Poetical Works;+ containing all the Author's last Introductions
and Notes. The Library Edition, complete in One Volume, with Portraits and Vignette. Medium 8vo.

+The Life and Correspondence of the late Robert Southey.+ Edited by his Son, the Rev. C. C.
SOUTHEY, M.A. With Portraits, &c. 6 vols. post 8vo. price 63s.

+Southey's Doctor, complete in One Volume.+ Edited by the Rev. J. W. WARTER, B.D. With Portrait,
Vignette, Bust, and coloured Plate. Square crown 8vo. 21s.

+Southey's Life of Wesley;+ and Rise and Progress of Methodism. Fourth Edition, edited by Rev.
C. C. SOUTHEY, M.A. 2 vols. crown 8vo. 12s.

+Spencer.--Essays, Scientific, Political, and Speculative.+ By HERBERT SPENCER, Author of Social
Statics. Reprinted chiefly from Quarterly Reviews. 8vo. 12s. cloth.

+Spencer.--The Principles of Psychology.+ By HERBERT SPENCER, Author of Social Statics. 8vo. 16s.

+Stephen.--Lectures on the History of France.+ By the Right Hon. Sir JAMES STEPHEN, K.C.B.,
LL.D. Third Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s.

+Stephen.--Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography;+ from The Edinburgh Review.

+Stonehenge.--The Dog in Health and Disease:+ Comprising the various
Modes of Breaking and using him for Hunting, Coursing, Shooting, &c.;
and including the Points or Characteristics of Toy Dogs. By STONEHENGE.
8vo. with numerous Illustrations.
                                                [In the press.

+Stonehenge.--The Greyhound:+ Being a Treatise on the Art of Breeding, Rearing, and Training
Greyhounds for Public Running; their Diseases and Treatment: Containing also Rules for the
Management of Coursing Meetings, and for the Decision of Courses. By STONEHENGE. With Frontispiece
and Woodcuts. Square crown 8vo. 21s.

+Stow's Training System, Moral Training School, and Normal Seminary for preparing Schoolmasters
and Governesses.+ Tenth Edition; Plates and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 6s

+Strickland.--Lives of the Queens of England.+ By AGNES STRICKLAND. Dedicated, by express permission,
to Her Majesty. Embellished with Portraits of every Queen, engraved from the most authentic
sources. Complete in 8 vols. post 8vo. 7s. 6d. each. 8vo. with Illustrations, price 21s.

+Taylor.--Loyola:+ and Jesuitism in its Rudiments. By ISAAC TAYLOR. Post 8vo. Medallion, 10s. 6d.

+Taylor.--- Wesley and Methodism.+ By ISAAC TAYLOR. Post 8vo. Portrait, 10s. 6d.

+Thacker's Courser's Annual Remembrancer and Stud-Book:+ Being an Alphabetical Return of the
Running at all Public Coursing Clubs in England, Ireland, and Scotland, for the Season 1857-8;
with the Pedigrees (as far as received) of the Dogs. By ROBERT ABRAM WELSH, Liverpool. 8vo. 21s.

*** Published annually in October.

+Bishop Thirlwall's History of Greece.+ Library Edition; with Maps. 8 vols. 8vo. £3.--An Edition
in 8 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 28s.

+Thomson's Seasons.+ Edited by BOLTON CORNEY, Esq. 21s. cloth; or 36s. bound in morocco.

+Thomson (the Rev. Dr.)--An Outline of the necessary Laws of Thought:+ A Treatise on Pure and
Applied Logic. By WILLIAM THOMSON, D.D. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

+Thomson's Tables of Interest+, at Three, Four, Four-and-a-Half, and Five per Cent., from One
Pound to Ten Thousand, and from 1 to 365 Days, in a regular progression of single Days; with
Interest at all the above Rates, from One to Twelve Months, and from One to Ten Years. Also,
numerous other Tables of Exchange, Time, and Discounts. New Edition. 12mo. 8s.

+The Thumb Bible;+ or, Verbum Sempiternum. By J. TAYLOR. Being an Epitome of the Old and New
Testaments in English Verse. Reprinted from the Edition of 1693. 64mo. 1s. 6d.

+Tighe and Davis.--Annals of Windsor;+ Being a History of the Castle and Town. With some account
of Eton and Places adjacent. By R. R. TIGHE, Esq.; and J. E. DAVIS, Esq., Barrister-at-Law.
With numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. royal 8vo. £4. 4s.

+Tooke.--History of Prices, and of the State of the Circulation, during the Nine Years from
1848 to 1856 inclusive.+ Forming Vols. V. and VI. of Tooke's History of Prices; and comprising
a copious Index to the whole work. By THOMAS TOOKE, F.R.S. and WILLIAM NEWMARCH. 2 vols. 8vo.
52s. 6d.

+Townsend.--Modern State Trials+, revised and illustrated with Essays and Notes. By W. C. TOWNSEND,
Esq., M.A., Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s.

+Trollope.--Barchester Towers:+ a Novel. By ANTHONY TROLLOPE. New and cheaper Edition, complete
in One Volume. Crown 8vo. 5s.

+Trollope.--The Warden.+ By ANTHONY TROLLOPE. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+The Traveller's Library:+ A Collection of original Works well adapted for Travellers and Emigrants,
for School-room Libraries, the Libraries of Mechanics' Institutions, Young Men's Libraries,
the Libraries of Ships, and similar purposes. The separate volumes are suited for School Prizes,
Presents to Young People, and for general instruction and entertainment. The Series comprises
fourteen of the most popular of Lord Macaulay's Essays, and his Speeches on Parliamentary Reform.
The department of Travels contains some account of eight of the principal countries of Europe,
as well as Travels in four districts of Africa, in four of America, and in three of Asia. Madame
Pfeiffer's First Journey round the World is included, and a general account of the Australian
Colonies. In Biography and History will be found Lord Macaulay's Biographical Sketches of Warren
Hastings, Clive, Pitt, Walpole, Bacon, and others, besides Memoirs of Wellington, Turenne,
F. Arago, &c., an Essay on the Life and Genius of Thomas Fuller, with Selections from his Writings,
by Mr. Henry Rogers; and a history of the Leipsic Campaign, by Mr. Gleig,--which is the only
separate account of this remarkable campaign. Works of Fiction did not come within the plan
of the TRAVELLER'S LIBRARY, but the Confessions of a Working Man, by Souvestre, which is indeed
a fiction founded on fact, has been included, and has been read with unusual interest by many
of the working classes, for whose use it is especially recommended. Dumas's story of the Maitre
d'Armes, though in form a work of fiction, gives a striking picture of an episode in the history
of Russia. Amongst the works on Science and Natural Philosophy, a general view of Creation
is embodied in Dr. Kemp's Natural History of Creation, and in his Indications of Instinct remarkable
facts in natural history are collected. Dr. Wilson has contributed a popular account of the
Electric Telegraph. In the volumes on the Coal-Fields, and on the Tin and other Mining Districts
of Cornwall, is given an account of the mineral wealth of England, the habits and manners of
the miners, and the scenery of the surrounding country. It only remains to add, that among
the Miscellaneous Works are a Selection of the best Writings of the Rev. Sydney Smith, Lord
Carlisle's Lectures and Addresses, an account of Mormonism, by the Rev. W. J. Conybeare, an
exposition of Railway management and mismanagement by Mr. Herbert Spencer, an account of the
Origin and Practice of Printing, by Mr. Stark; and an account of London, by Mr. M'Culloch--To
be had, in complete Sets only, at £5. 5s. per Set, bound in cloth and lettered.

*** The Traveller's Library may also be had as originally issued in 102 parts, 1s. each, forming
50 vols. 2s. 6d. each; or any separate parts or volumes.

+Sharon Turner's Sacred History of the World+, Philosophically considered, in a Series of Letters
to a Son. 3 vols. post 8vo. 31s. 6d.

+Sharon Turner's History of England during the Middle Ages;+ Comprising the Reigns from the
Norman Conquest to the Accession of Henry VIII. 4 vols. 8vo. 50s.

+Sharon Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons+, from the Earliest Period to the Norman Conquest.
3 vols. 36s.

+Dr. Turton's Manual of the Land and Fresh-Water Shells of Great Britain.+ With Figures of
each of the kinds. New Edition, with Additions by Dr. J. E. GREY, F.R.S., &c., Keeper of the
Zoological Collection in the British Museum. Crown 8vo. with 12 coloured Plates, price 15s. cloth.

+Dr. Ure's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines:+ Containing a clear Exposition of their
Principles and Practice. Fourth Edition, much enlarged. With nearly 1,600 Woodcuts. 2 vols.
8vo. 60s.

+Uwins.--Memoir of Thomas Uwins.+ R.A. By Mrs. UWINS. With Letters to his Brothers during Seven
Years spent in Italy; and Correspondence with the late Sir Thomas Lawrence, Sir C. L. Eastlake,
A. E. Chalon, R.A., and other distinguished persons. 2 vols. post 8vo.

+Van der Hoeven's Handbook of Zoology.+ Translated from the Second Dutch Edition by the Rev.
WILLIAM CLARK, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Cambridge; with additional
References by the Author. 2 vols. 8vo. with 24 Plates of Figures, price 60s. cloth; or separately,
VOL. I. Invertebrata, 30s., and VOL. II. Vertebrata, 30s.

+Vehse.--Memoirs of the Court, Aristocracy, and Diplomacy of Austria.+ By Dr. E. VEHSE. Translated
from the German by FRANZ DEMMLER. 2 vols. post 8vo. 21s.

+Von Tempsky.--Mitla;+ or, Incidents and Personal Adventures on a Journey in Mexico, Guatemala,
and Salvador in the Years 1853 to 1855: With Observations on the Modes of Life in those Countries.
By G. F. VON TEMPSKY. With numerous Illustrations. 8vo. 18s.

+Wade.--England's Greatness:+ Its Rise and Progress In Government, Laws, Religion, and Social
Life; Agriculture, Commerce, and Manufactures; Science, Literature and Arts, from the Earliest
Period to the Peace of Paris. By JOHN WADE, Author of the Cabinet Lawyer, &c. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+Wanderings in the Land of Ham.+ By a DAUGHTER of JAPHET. Post 8vo. 8s. 6d.

+Waterton.--Essays on Natural History, chiefly Ornithology.+ By C. WATERTON, Esq. With an Autobiography
of the Author, and Views of Walton Hall. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 5s. each.

+Waterton's Essays on Natural History.+ THIRD SERIES; with a Continuation of the Autobiography,
and a Portrait of the Author. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

+Webster and Parkes's Encyclopædia of Domestic Economy;+ comprising such subjects as are most
immediately connected with House-keeping: viz. The Construction of Domestic Edifices, with
the Modes of Warming, Ventilating, and Lighting them--A description of the various Articles
of Furniture, with the Nature of their Materials--Duties of Servants--&c. With nearly 1,000
Woodcuts. 8vo. 50s.

+Weld.--Vacations in Ireland.+ By CHARLES RICHARD WELD, Barrister-at-Law. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

+Weld.--A Vacation Tour in the United States and Canada.+ By C. R. WELD, Barrister. Post 8vo.
10s. 6d.

+West.--Lectures on the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood.+ By CHARLES WEST, M.D., Physician
to the Hospital for Sick Children; Physician-Accoucheur to, and Lecturer on Midwifery at, St.
Bartholomew's Hospital. 8vo. 14s.

+Willich's Popular Tables for ascertaining the Value of Lifehold, Leasehold, and Church Property,
Renewal Fines, &c.+ With numerous additional Tables--Chemical, Astronomical, Trigonometrical,
Common and Hyperbolic Logarithms; Constants, Squares, Cubes, Roots, Reciprocals, &c. Fourth
Edition. Post 8vo. 10s.

+Wilmot's Abridgment of Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England+, in a series of Letters
from a Father to his Daughter. 12mo. 6s. 6d.

+Wilson's Bryologia Britannica:+ Containing the Mosses of Great Britain and Ireland systematically
arranged and described according to the Method of Bruch and Schimper; with 61 illustrative
Plates. Being a New Edition, enlarged and altered, of the Muscologia Britannica of Messrs.
Hooker and Taylor. 8vo. 42s.; or, with the Plates coloured, price £4. 4s. Post 4to. 21s.

+Yonge's New Latin Gradus:+ Containing Every Word used by the Poets of good authority. For
the use of Eton, Westminster, Winchester, Harrow, and Rugby Schools; King's College, London;
and Marlborough College. Fifth Edition. Post 8vo. 9s.; or, with APPENDIX of Epithets, 12s.

+Yonge's School Edition of Horace.+--Horace, with, concise English Notes for Schools and Students.
By the Rev. J. E. YONGE, King's College, Cambridge; Assistant Master at Eton. PART I. Odes
and Epodes, 12mo. 3s.; PART II. Satires and Epistles, 3s. 6d.

+Youatt--The Horse.+ By William Youatt. With a Treatise of Draught. New Edition, with numerous
Wood Engravings, from Designs by William Harvey. (Messrs. LONGMAN and Co.'s Edition should
be ordered.) 8vo. 10s.

+Youatt.--The Dog.+ By William Youatt. A New Edition; with numerous Engravings, from Designs
by W. Harvey. 8vo. 6s. For several millennia this is
the floor, stood on all the culture from which they hervorgesprosst and which it has been
in constant connection. Organizations such as the natural, plant and animals that wrest the severity,
but this element of their nature can not leave; then all art and science that has grown out of the
ground, and although independent practice in the become, it has not exempted by the memory of those
older formation. How Anteus its forces by the touch of mother earth renewed, then each new
boom and affirmation of science and education, to the light from the return to antiquity lifted.

As
important, however, the preservation of this land is so essential is the modification of the
ratio, in which he has previously stood.

If the insight into the inadequacy, Adverse old Principles and institutions at all and thus their related
previous education purposes and educational resources occurs, it is the thought that presents
itself first on the surface, the complete abolition and elimination of it. But the sublime wisdom
of the government, about this slightly translucent help, fulfilled in the most truthful way the need
of the time the fact that the old ones into a new relationship to the whole set, and thus the essence
receives them as much as they changed and renewed.
 In the two journeys he performed to America--journeys
that would have supplied a diffuse book-maker with matter for many
volumes, the Abbé was almost every day exposed to dangers of his
life--sometimes from the climate, sometimes from the privations to which
he was subjected, now from the rough character of the country he
constantly compelled to traverse in his spiritual journeys, anon from
the violence of colonists or Indians.... It will be seen that readers
who expect an infinity of enjoyment from these missionary adventures
will not be disappointed."
                                            DAILY TELEGRAPH.

"The good and brave young Abbé Domenech, whose personal narrative we may
at once say we have found more readable and more informing than a dozen
volumes of ordinary adventure, is not unworthy to be named with Huc in
the annals of missionary enterprise; and we know not how to give him
higher praise. Moreover, that even the Reading
the old classic is chosen for presenting an educational content that deals the Insurance Authority
will also notify the skills that have a value in and of itself, are of particular usefulness,
or an ornament. His account of Texas, its physical geography, its
earlier and later history, its populations, settled and nomad, and of
the history and customs of the Indian tribes and their forms of
religious worship, is concisely full and clear; and now that the new
destiny of these regions is beginning to unfold itself, we recommend to
particular attention the few pages in which all that is worth knowing
about their past and present condition is summed up.... To us, the pages
in which the Abbé Domenech confesses the trials and sorrows of his own
heart are the most interesting of his book. They bear the stamp of a
perfect and most touching sincerity; and, as we read them, we are more
and more impressed with the truth which they convey to all churches and
all sects. It has been well said, that Heaven is a character before it
is a place. 

"You know as well what it has rung?" "inquired the old woman.

"Stupid nonsense! I do not hear after the tinkling."

"It was but for Euern sister's son!"

Mr. Bulemann laid down his
pen. "What are you chattering, old man?".