The Aradan telegraph-jee is a young man skin-full of piety, rejoicing in the possession of
a nice little praying-carpet, a praying-stone from holy Kerbela, the holiest of all except
Mecca, and he owns a string of beads of the same soul-comforting material as the stone. During
his waking hours he is seldom without the rosary in his hand, passing the holy beads back and
forth along the string; and five times a day he produces the praying-stone from its little
leathern pouch and goes through the ceremony of saying his prayers, with becoming earnestness.
At eventide, when he spreads his praying-carpet and places the little oblong tablet from Kerbela
in its customary position, preparatory to commencing his last prayers for the day, it is furthermore
ascertained by the compass that he has been pretty accurate in his daily prostrations toward
Mecca. With all these enviable advantages--the praying-carpet, the praying-stone, the holy
rosary, and the happy accuracy as regards Mecca--the Aradan telegraph-jee is a Mussulman who
ought to feel tolerably certain of a rose-garden, a gurgling rivulet, and any number of black-eyed
houris to contribute to his happiness in the paradise he hopes to enter beyond the tomb.

Indications have not been wanting during the day that the weather is in anything but a settled
condition, and upon waking in the morning I fancy I hear the pattering music of the rain. Fortunately
it proves to be only fancy, and the telegraph-jee, assuming the part of a weather-prophet,
reassures me by remarking, "Inshalla, am roos, baran neis" (Please God, it will not rain to-day).
Being a Persian, he says this, not because he has any particular confidence in his own predictions,
but because his idea of making himself agreeable is to frame his predictions by the measurement
of what he discovers to be my wishes.

The road into Aradan led me through one populous cemetery, and the road out again leads me
through another; beyond the cemetery it follows alongside a meandering streamlet that flows,
sluggishly along over a bed of deep gray mud. The road is lumpy but ridable, and I am pedalling
serenely along, happy in the contemplation of better roads ahead than I had yesterday, when
one of those ludicrous incidents happen that have occurred at intervals here and there all
along my journey. A party of travellers have been making a night march from the east, and as
we approach each other, a wary kafaveh-carrying mule, suspicious about the peaceful character
of the mysterious object bearing down toward him, pricks up his ears, wheels round, and inaugurates
confusion among his fellows, and then proceeds to head them in a determined bolt across the
stream. Unfortunately for the women in the kajavehs, the mud and water together prove to be
deeper than the mule expected to find them, and the additional fright of finding himself in
a well-nigh swamped condition, causes him to struggle violently to get out again. In so doing
he bursts whatever fastenings may have bound him and his burden together, scrambles ashore,
and leaves the kajavehs floating on the water!

The women began screaming the moment the mule wheeled round and bolted, and now they find themselves
afloat in their queer craft, these characteristic female signals of distress are redoubled
in energy; and they may well be excused for this, for the kajavehs are gradually filling and
sinking; it was never intended that kajavehs should be capable of acting in the capacity of
a boat. The sight of their companion's difficulties has the effect of causing the other mules
to change their minds about crossing the stream, and almost to change their minds about indulging
in the mulish luxury of a scare; and fortunately the charvadars of the party succeed in rescuing
the kajavehs before they sink. Nobody is injured, beyond the women getting wet; no damage is
done worth mentioning, and as the two heroines of the adventure emerge from their novel craft,
their garments dripping with water, their doleful looks are rewarded with unsympathetic merriment
from the men. Few have been my wheeling days on Asian roads that have not witnessed something
in the shape of an overthrow or runaway; so far, nobody has been seriously injured by them,
but I have sometimes wondered whether it will be my good fortune to complete the bicycle journey
around the world without some mishap of the kind, resulting in broken limbs for the native
and trouble for myself.

After a couple of miles the road and the meandering stream part company, the latter flowing
southward and the road traversing a flat, curious, stone-strewn waste; an area across which
one could step from one large boulder to another without touching the ground. Once beyond this,
and the road develops into several parallel trails of smooth, hard gravel, that afford as good,
or better, wheeling than the finest macadam. While spinning at a highly satisfactory rate of
speed along these splendid paths, a small herd of antelopes cross the road some few hundred
yards ahead, and pass swiftly southward toward the dasht-i-namek. These are the first antelopes,
or, for that matter, the first big game I have encountered since leaving the prairies of Western
Nebraska. The Persian antelope seems to be a duplicate of his distinguished American relative
in a general, all-round sense; he is, if anything, even more nimble-footed than the spring-heeled
habitue of the West, possesses the same characteristic jerky jump, and hoists the same conspicuous
white signal of retreat. He is a decidedly slimmer-built quadruped, however, than the American
antelope; the body is of the same square build, but is sadly lacking in plumpness, and he seems
to be an altogether lankier and less well-favored animal. For this constitutional difference,
he is probably indebted to the barren and inhospitable character of the country over which
he roams, as compared with the splendid feeding-grounds of the--Far West. The Persians sometimes
hunt the antelope on horseback, with falcons and greyhounds; the falcons are taught to fly
in advance and attack the fleeing antelopes about the head, and so confuse them and retard
their progress in the interest of the pursuing hounds and horsemen.

The little village of Deh Namek is reached about mid-day, where my ever-varying bill of fare
takes the shape of raw eggs and pomegranates. Deh Namek is too small and unimportant a place
to support a public tchai-khan; but along the Meshed pilgrim road the villagers are keenly
alive to the chance of earning a stray keran, and the advent of one of those inexhaustible
keran-mines, a "Sahib," is the signal for some enterprising person, sufficiently well-to-do
to own a samovar, to get up steam in it and prepare tea.

East of Deh Namek, the wheeling continues splendid for a dozen miles, traversing a level desert
on which one finds no drinkable water for about twenty miles. Across the last eight miles of
the desert the road is variable, consisting of alternate stretches of ridable and unridable
ground, the latter being generally unridable by reason of sand and loose gravel, or thickly
strewn flints. More antelopes are encountered east of Deh Namek; at one place, particularly,
I enjoy quite a little exciting spurt in an effort to intercept a band that are heading across
my road from the Elburz foot-hills to the desert. The wheeling is here magnificent, the spurt
develops into a speed of fourteen miles an hour; the antelopes see their danger, or, at all
events, what they fancy to be danger, and their apprehensions are not by any mean lessened
by the new and startling character of their pursuer. Wild antelopes are timid things at all
times, and, as may be readily imagined, the sight of a mysterious glistening object, speeding
along at a fourteen or fifteen mile pace to intercept them, has a magical effect upon their
astonishing powers of locomotion. They seem to fly rather than run, and to skim like swallows
over the surface of the level plain rather than to touch the ground; but they were some distance
from the road when they first realized my terrifying presence, and I am within fifty yards
of the band when they flash like a streak of winged terror across the road. These antelopes
do not cease their wild flight within the range of my powers of observation; long after the
mousy hue of their bodies has rendered their forms indistinguishable in the distance from the
sympathetic coloring of the desert, rapidly bobbing specks of white betray the fact that their
supposed narrow escape from the vengeful pursuit of the bicycle has given them a fright that
will make them suspicious of the Meshed pilgrim road for weeks.

"Deh Namek" means "salt village;" and it derives its name from the salt flats that are visible
to the south of the road, and the general saline character of the country round about. Salt
enters very largely into the composition of the mountains that present a solid and fantastically
streaked front a few miles to the north; and the streams flowing from these mountains are simply
streams of brine, whose mission would seem to be conveying the saline matter from the hills,
and distributing it over the flats and swampy areas of the desert. These flats are visible
from the road, white, level, and impressive; like the Great American Desert, Utah, as seen
from the Matlin section house, and described in a previous chapter (Vol. I.), it looks as though
it might be a sheet of water, solidified and dead.

At the end of the twenty miles one comes to a small and unpretentious village and an equally
small and unpretentious wayside tchai-khan, both owing their existence to a stream of fresh
water as small and unpretentious as themselves. Beyond this cheerless oasis stretches again
the still more cheerless desert, the rivulets of undrinkable salt water, the glaring white
salt-flats to the south, and the salt-encrusted mountains to the north. The shameless old party
presiding at the tchai-khan evidently realizes the advantages of his position, where many travellers
from either direction, reaching the place in a thirsty condition, have no choice but between
his decoction and cold water. Instead of the excellent tea every Persian knows very well how
to make, he serves out a preparation that is made, I should say, chiefly from camelthorn buds
plucked within a mile of his shanty; he furthermore illustrates in his own methods the baneful
effects of being without the stimulus of a rival, by serving it up in unwashed glasses, and
without noticing whether it is hot or cold.

Much loose gravel prevails between this memorable point and Lasgird, and while trundling laboriously
through it I am overtaken by a rain-storm, accompanied by violent wind, that at first encompasses
me about in the most peculiar manner. The storm comes howling from the northwest and advances
in two sections, accompanied by thunder and lightning; the two advancing columns seem to be
dense masses of gray cloud rolling over the surface of the plain, and between them is a clear
space of perhaps half a mile in width. The rain-dispensing columns pass me by on either side
with muttering rolls of thunder and momentary gleams of lightning, enveloping me in swirling
eddies of dust and bewildering atmospheric disturbances, but not a drop of rain. It is plainly
to be seen, however, that the two columns are united further west, and that it behooves me
to don my gossamer rubbers; but before being overtaken by the rain, the heads of the flying
columns are drawn together, and for some minutes I am surrounded entirely by sheets of falling
moisture and streaming clouds that descend to the level plain and obscure the view in every
direction; and yet the clear sky is immediately above, and the ground over which I am walking
is perfectly dry. After the first violent burst there is very little wind, and the impenetrable
walls of vapor encompassing me round about at so near a distance, and yet not interfering with
me in any way, present a most singular appearance. While appreciating the extreme novelty of
the situation, I can scarce say in addition that I appreciate the free play of electricity
going on in all directions, and the irreverent manner in which the nickeled surface of the
bicycle seems to glint at it and defy it; on the contrary, I deem it but an act of common discretion
to place the machine for a short time where the lightning can have a fair chance at it, without
involving a respectful non-combatant in the destruction. In half an hour the whole curious
affair is over, and nothing is seen but the wild-looking tail-end of the disturbance climbing
over a range of mountains in the southeast.

The road now edges off in a more northeasterly course, and by four o'clock leads me to the
base of a low pass over a jutting spur of the mountains. At the base of the spur, a cultivated
area, consisting of several wheat-fields and terraced melon-gardens, has been rescued from
the unproductive desert by the aid of a bright little mountain stream, whose wild spirit the
villagers of Lasgird have curbed and tamed for their own benefit, by turning it from its rocky,
precipitous channel, and causing it to descend the hill in a curious serpentine ditch. The
contour of the ditch is something like this: ~~~~~~~~~~~; it brings the water down a pretty
steep gradient, and its serpentine form checks the speed of its descent to an uniform and circumspect
pace. The road over the pass leads through a soft limestone formation, and here, as in similar
places in Asia Minor, are found those narrow, trench-like trails, worn by the feet of pilgrims
and the pack-animal traffic of centuries, several feet deep in the solid rock. On a broad cultivated
plain beyond the pass is sighted the village of Lasgird, its huge mud fortress, the most conspicuous
object in view, rising a hundred feet above the plain.

CHAPTER III.

PERSIA AND THE MESHED PILGRIM ROAD.

A mile or so through the cultivated fields brings me to the village just in time to be greeted
by the shouts and hand-clapping of a wedding procession that is returning from conducting the
bride to the bath. Men and boys are beating rude, home-made tambourines, and women are dancing
along before the bride, clicking castanets, while a crowd of at least two hundred villagers,
arrayed in whatever finery they can muster for the occasion, are following behind, clapping
their hands in measured chorus. This hand-clapping is, I believe, pretty generally practiced
by the villagers all over Central Asia on festive occasions. As a result of riding for the
crowd, I receive an invitation to take supper at the house of the bridegroom's parents. Having
obtained sleeping quarters at the chapar-khana, I get the shagird-chapar to guide me to the
house at the appointed hour, and arrive just in time for supper. The dining-room is a low-ceiled
apartment, about thirty feet long and eight wide, and is dimly lighted by rude grease lamps,
set on pewter lamp-stands on the floor.

Squatting on the floor, with their backs to the wall, about fifty villagers form a continuous
human line around the room. These all rise simultaneously to their feet as I am announced,
bob their heads simultaneously, simultaneously say, "Sahib salaam," and after I have been provided
with a place, simultaneously resume their seats. Pewter trays are now brought in by volunteer
waiters, and set on the floor before the guests, one tray for every two guests, and a separate
one for myself. On each tray is a bowl of mast (milk soured with rennet--the "yaort" of Asia
Minor), a piece of cheese, one onion, a spoonful or two of pumpkin butter and several flat
wheaten cakes. This is the wedding supper. The guests break the bread into the mast and scoop
the mixture out with their fingers, transferring it to their mouths with the dexterity of Chinese
manipulating a pair of chop-sticks; now and then they take a nibble at the piece of cheese
or the onion, and they finish up by consuming the pumpkin butter. The groom doesn't appear
among the guests; he is under the special care of several female relations in another apartment,
and is probably being fed with tid-bits from the henna-stained fingers of old women, who season
them with extravagant and lying stories of the bride's beauty, and duly impress upon him his
coming matrimonial responsibilities.

Supper eaten and the dishes cleared, an amateur luti from among the villagers produces a tambourine
and castanets, and, taking the middle of the room, proceeds to amuse the company by singing
extempore love songs in praise of the bride and groom to tambourine accompaniment and pendulous
swayings of the body. Pretending to be carried away by the melodiousness and sentiment of his
own productions, he gradually bends backward with hands outstretched and castanets jingling,
until his head almost touches the floor, and maintains that position while keeping his body
in a theatrical tremor of delight. This is the finale of the performance, and the luti comes
and sets his skull-cap in front of me for a present; my next neighbor, the bridegroom's father,
takes it up and hands it back with a deprecatory wave of the hand; the luti replies by promptly
setting it down again; this time my neighbor lets it remain, and the luti is made happy by a coin.

Torchlight processions to the different baths are now made from the house of both bride and
groom, for this is the "hammam night," devoted to bathing and festivities before the wedding-day.
Torches are made with dry camelthorn, the blaze being kept up by constant renewal; a boy, with
a lighted candle, walks immediately ahead of the bridegroom and his female relations, and a
man with a farnooze brings up the rear. Nobody among the onlookers is permitted to lag behind
the man with the farnooze, everybody being required to either walk ahead or alongside. The
tambourine-beating and shouting and hand-clapping of the afternoon is repeated, and every now
and then the procession stops to allow one or two of the women to face the bridegroom and favor
him with an exhibition of their skill in the execution of the hip-dance.

The bridal procession is coming down another street, and I stop to try and obtain a glimpse
of the bride; but she is completely enveloped in a flaming red shawl, and is supported and
led by two women. There seems to be little difference in the two processions, except the preponderance
of females in the bride's party; everything is arranged in the same order, and women dance
at intervals before the bride as before the groom.

It begins raining before I retire for the night; it rains incessantly all night, and is raining
heavily when I awake in the morning. The weather clears up at noon, but it is useless thinking
of pushing on, for miles of tenacious mud intervene between the village and the gravelly desert;
moreover, the prospect of the fine weather holding out looks anything but reassuring. The villagers
are all at home, owing to the saturated condition of their fields, and I come in for no small
share of worrying attention during the afternoon. A pilgrim from Teheran turns up and tells
the people about my appearance before the Shah; this increases their interest in me to an unappreciated
extent, and, with glistening eyes and eagerly rubbing fingers, they ask "Chand pool Padishah?"
(How much money did the King give you?) "I showed the Shah the bicycle, and the Shah showed
me the lions, and tigers, and panthers at Doshan Tepe," I tell them; and a knowing customer,
called Meshedi Ali, enlightens them still further by telling them I am not a luti to receive
money for letting the Shah-in-Shah see me ride. Still, luti or no luti, the people think I
ought to have received a present. I am worried to ride so incessantly that I am forced to seek
self-protection in pretending to have sprained my ankle, and in returning to the chapar-khana
with a hypocritical limp. I station myself ostensibly for the remainder of the day on the bala-khana
front, and busy myself in taking observations of the villagers and their doings.

Time was, among ourselves, or more correctly, among our ancestors, when blood-letting was as
much the professional calling of a barber as scraping chins or trimming hair, and when our
respected beef-eating and beer-drinking forefathers considered wholesale blood-letting as a
well-nigh universal panacea for fleshly ills. In travelling through Persia, one often observes
things that suggest very strikingly those "good old days" of Queen Bess. The citizens of Zendjan
offering the Shah a present of 60,000 tomans, as an inducement not to visit their city, as
they did when he was on his way to Europe, has a true Elizabethan ring about it, a suggestion
of the Virgin Queen's rabble retinue travelling about, devouring and destroying, and of justly
apprehensive citizens, seeing ruin staring them in the face, petitioning their regal mistress
to spare them the dread calamity of a royal visit.

The ancient Zoroastrian barber, no doubt, bled his patients and customers on the public streets
of Persian towns, for the benefit of their healths, when we pinned our pagan faith on Druidical
incantations and mystic rites and ceremonies; his Mussulman descendants were doing the same
thing when we at length arrived at the same stage of enlightenment, and the Persian wielder
of razor and tweezers to-day performs the same office as belonging to his profession. From
my vantage point on the bala-khana of the Lasgird chapar station, I watch, with considerable
interest, the process of bleeding a goodly share of the male population of the village; for
it is spring-time, and in spring, every Persian, whether well or unwell, considers the spilling
of half a pint or so of blood very necessary for the maintenance of health.

The village barber, with his arms bared, and the flowing, o'er-ample legs of his Aradan-Lasgird
pantaloons tucked up at his waist, like a washerwoman's skirt, a bunch of raw cotton in lieu
of lint under his left arm, and his keen-edged razor, looks like a man who thoroughly realizes
and enjoys the importance of the office he is performing, as from the bared arm or open mouth
of one after the other of his neighbors he starts the crimson stream. The candidates for the
barber's claret-tapping attentions bare their right arms to the shoulder, and bind for each
other a handkerchief or piece of something tightly above the elbow, and the barber deftly slits
a vein immediately below the hollow of the elbow-joint, pressing out the vein he wishes to
cut by a pressure of the left thumb. The blood spurts out, the patient looks at the squirting
blood, and then surveys the onlookers with a "who-cares?--I-don't" sort of a grin. He then
squats down and watches it bleed about a half-pint, occasionally working the elbow-joint to
stimulate the flow. Half a pint is considered about the correct quantity for an adult to lose
at one bleeding; the barber then binds on a small wad of cotton.

Now and then a customer gives the barber a trifling coin by way of backsheesh, but the great
majority give nothing. In a mere village like Lasgird, these periodical blood-lettings by the
barber are, no doubt, regarded as being all in the family, rather than of professional services
for a money consideration. The communal spirit obtains to a great extent in village life throughout
both Asia Minor and Persia; nevertheless backsheesh would be expected in Persia from those
able to afford it. Some few prefer being bled in the roof the mouth, and they all squat on
their hams in rows, some bleeding from the arm, others from the mouth, while the inevitable
crowd of onlookers stand around, gazing and giving advice. While the barber is engaged in binding
on the wad of cotton, or during any interval between patients, he inserts the handle of the
razor between his close-fitting skull-cap and his forehead, letting the blade hang down over
his face, edge outward; a peculiar disposition of his razor, that he would, no doubt, be entirely
at a loss to account for, except that he is following the custom of his fathers. As regards
the customs of his ancestors, whose trade or profession he invariably follows, the Asiatic
is the most conservative of mortals. "What was good enough for my father and grandfather,"
he says, "is certainly good enough for me;" and earnestly believing in this, he never, of his
own accord, thinks of changing his occupation or of making improvements.

Later in the afternoon I descend from the bala-khana and take a strolling look at the village,
and with the shagird-chapar for guide, pay a visit to the old fortress, the conspicuous edifice
seen from the trail-worn limestone pass. Forgetting about my subterfuge of the sprained ankle,
I wander forth without the aforementioned limp; but the people seem to have forgotten it as
completely as I had; at all events, nobody makes any comments. A ripple of excitement is caused
by a two-storied house collapsing from the effects of the soaking rains, an occurrence by no
means infrequent in the spring in a country of mud-built houses. A crowd soon appears upon
the scene, watching, with unconcealed delight, the spectacle of tumbling roof and toppling
wall, giving vent to their feelings in laughter and loud shouts of approval, like delighted
children, whenever another bulky square of mud and thatch comes tumbling down. Fortunately,
nobody happens to be hurt, beyond the half-burying in the debris of some donkeys, which are
finally induced to extricate themselves by being vigorously bombarded with stones. No sympathy
appears to be given on the part of the spectators, and evidently nothing of the kind is expected
by the tenants of the tumbling house; the wailing women, and the look of consternation on the
face of the men who barely escaped from the falling roof, seem to be regarded by the spectators
as a tomasha (show), to be stared at and enjoyed, as they would stare at and enjoy anything
not seen every day; on the other hand, the occupants of the house regard their misfortune as
kismet.

Returning to the chapar-ktiana, I get the shayird to pilot me into and round about the fortress.
It is rapidly falling to decay, but is still in a sufficiently good state of preservation to
show thoroughly its former strength and conformation. The fortress is a decidedly massive building,
constructed entirely of mud and adobe bricks, a hundred feet high, of circular form, and some
two hundred yards in circumference. The disintegrated walls and debris of former towers form
a sloping mound or foundation about fifty feet in height, and from this the perpendicular walls
of the castle rise up, huge and ugly, for another hundred feet. Following a foot-trail up the
mound-like base, we come to a low, gloomy passage-way leading into the interior of the fort.
A door, composed of one massive stone slab, that nothing less than a cannon-shot would shatter,
guards the entrance to this passage, which is the only accessible entrance to the place. Following
it along for perhaps thirty yards, we emerge upon a scene of almost indescribable squalor--a
scene that instantly suggests an overcrowded "rookery" in the tenement-house slums of New York.
The place is simply swarming with people, who, like rabbits in an old warren, seem to be moving
about among the tumble-down mud huts, anywhere and everywhere, as though the old ruined fortress
were burrowed through and through, or that the people now moved through, over, under, and around
the remnants of what was once a more orderly collection of dwellings, having long forsaken
regular foot-ways.

The inhabitants are ragged and picturesque, and meandering about among them, on the most familiar
terms, are hundreds of goats. Although everything is in a more or less dilapidated condition,
huts or cells still rise above each other in tiers, and the people clamber about from tier
to tier, as if in emulation of their venturesome four-footed associates, who are here, we may
well imagine, in as perfect a paradise as vagrom goatish nature would care for or expect. At
a low estimate, I should place the present population of the old fortress at a thousand people,
and about the same number of goats. In the days when the bold Turkoman raiders were wont to
make their dreaded damans almost up to the walls of Teheran, and such strongholds as this were
the only safeguard of out-lying villagers, the interior of Lasgird fortress resembled a spacious
amphitheatre, around which hundreds of huts rose, tier above tier, like the cells of a monster
pigeon-house, affording shelter in times of peril to all the inhabitants of Lasgird, and to
such refugees as might come in. At the first alarm of the dreaded man-stealers' approach, the
outside villagers repaired to the fortress with their portable property; the donkeys and goats
were driven inside and occupied the interior space, and the massive stone door was closed and
barricaded. The villagers' granaries were inside the fortress, and provisions for obtaining
water were not overlooked; so that once inside, the people were quite secure against any force
of Turkomans, whose heaviest arms were muskets.

The suggestion of an amphitheatre, as above described, is quite patent at the present day,
in something like two or three hundred tiered dwellings; in the days of its usefulness there
must have been a thousand. Thanks to the Russian occupation of Turkestan, there is no longer
any need of the fortress, and the present population seem to be occupying it at the peril of
having it some day tumble down about their ears; for, massive though its walls most certainly
are, they are but mud, and the people are indifferent about repairs. Failing to surprise the
watchful villagers in their fields or outside dwellings, the baffled marauders would find confronting
them fifty feet of solid mud wall without so much as an air-hole in it, rising sheer above
the mound-like foundation, and above this, tiers of rooms or cells, from inside which archers
or musketeers could make it decidedly interesting for any hostile party attempting to approach.
This old fortress of Lasgird is very interesting, as showing the peaceful and unwarlike Persian
ryot's method of defending his life and liberty against the savage human hawks that were ever
hovering near, ready to swoop down and carry him and his off to the slave markets of Khiva
and Bokhara. These were times when seed was sown and harvest garnered in fear and trembling,
for the Turkoman raiders were adepts at swooping down when least expected, and they rode horses
capable of making their hundred miles a day over the roughest country. (Incredible as this
latter fact may seem, it is, nevertheless, a well-known thing in Central Asia that the Turkoman's
horse is capable of covering this remarkable distance, and of keeping it up for days.)

A thunder-storm is raging violently and drenching everything as I retire for the night, dampening,
among other things, my hopes of getting away from Lasgird for some days; for between the village
and the gravelly, and consequently always traversable, desert, are some miles of slimy clay
of the kind that in wet weather makes an experienced cycler wince to think of crossing. The
floor of the bala-khana forms once again my nocturnal couch; but the temperature lowers perceptibly
as the night advances and the rain continues, and toward morning it changes into snow. The
doors and windows of my room are to be called doors and windows only out of courtesy to a rude,
unfinished effort to imitate these things, and the floor, at daybreak, is nicely carpeted with
an inch or so of "the beautiful snow," and a four-inch covering of the same greets my vision
upon looking outside.

Determined to make the best of the situation, I remove my quarters from the cold and draughty
bala-khana to the stable, and send the shagird-chapar out in quest of camel-thorn, bread, eggs,
and pomegranates, thinking thus to obtain the luxury of a bit of fire and something to eat
in comparative seclusion. This vain hope proves that I have not even yet become thoroughly
acquainted with the Persians. No sooner does my camel-thorn blaze begin to crackle and the
smoke to betray the whereabouts of a fire, than shivering, blue-nosed villagers begin to put
in their appearance, their backs humped up and their bare ankles and slip-shod feet adding
not a little to the general aspect of wretchedness that seems inseparable from Persians in
cold weather.

And these are the people who, during a gleam of illusory sunshine yesterday, were so nonchalantly
parting with their blood--of which, by the by, your bread and cucumber eating, and cold water
drinking Persian has little enough, and that little thin enough at any time. These rag-bedecked,
shivering wretches hop up on the raised platform where the fire is burning and squat themselves
around it in the most sociable manner; and under the thawing process of passing their hands
through the flames, poking the coals together, and close attention to the details of keeping
it burning, they quickly thaw out in more respects than one. Fifteen minutes after my fire
is lighted, the spot where I anticipated a samovar of tea and a pomegranate or two in peace,
is occupied by as many Persians as can find squatting room, talking, shouting, singing, and
kalian-smoking, meanwhile eagerly and expectantly watching the preparations for making tea.
Preferring to leave them in full possession rather than be in their uncongenial midst, I pass
the time in promenading back and forth behind the horses. After walking to and fro a few times,
the, to them, singular performance of walking back and forth excites their easily-aroused curiosity,
and the wondering attention of all present becomes once again my unhappy portion. An Asiatic's
idea of enjoying himself in cold weather is squatting about a few coals of fire, making no
physical exertion whatever beyond smoking and conversing; and the spectacle of a Ferenghi promenading
back and forth, when he might be following their example of squatting by the fire, is to them
a subject of no little wonder and speculation.

The redeeming feature of my enforced sojourn at Lasgird is the excellence of the pomegranates,
for which the place is famous, and of which there seems an abundance left over through the
winter. A small quantity of seedless pomegranates, a highly valued variety, are grown here
at Lasgird, but they are all sent to Teheran for the use of the Shah and his household, and
are not to be obtained by anyone. It has been a raw, disagreeable day, and at night I decide
to sleep in the stable, where it is at least warmer, though the remove is but a compromise
by which one's olfactory sensibilities are sacrificed in the interest of securing a few hours'
sleep.

An unexpected, but none the less welcome, deliverance appears on the following morning in the
shape of a frost, that forms on the sticky mud a crust of sufficient thickness to enable me
to escape across to the welcome gravel beyond the Lasgird Plain ere it thaws out. Thus on the
precarious path of a belated morning frost, breaking through here, jumping over there, I leave
Lasgird and its memories of wedding processions, and blood-letting, its huge mud fortress,
its pomegranates, and its discomforts.

Three miles of mostly ridable gravel bring me to another village, and to four miles of horrible
mud in getting through its fields and over its ditches. A raw wind is blowing, and squally
gusts of snow come scudding across the dreary prospect--a prospect flanked on the north by
cold, gray hills, and the face of nature generally furrowed with tell-tale lines of winter's
partial dissolution. While trundling through this village, both myself and bicycle plastered
to a well-nigh unrecognizable state with mud, feeling pretty thoroughly disgusted with the
weather and the roads, an ancient-looking Persian emerges from a little stall with a last season's
muskmelon in hand, and advancing toward me, shouts, "H-o-i" loud enough to wake the seven sleepers.
Shouting "H-o-i!!" at a person close enough to hear a whisper, as loud as though he were a
good mile away, is a peculiarity of the Persians that has often irritated travellers to the
pitch of wishing they had a hot potato and the dexterity to throw it down their throats; and
in my present unenviable condition, and its accompanying unenviable frame of mind, I don't
mind admitting that I mentally relegated this vociferous melon-vender to a place where infinitely
worse than hot potatoes would overtake him. Knowing full well that a halt of a single minute
would mean a general mustering of the population, and an importuning rabble following me through
the unridable mud, I ignore the old melon-man's foghorn efforts to arrest my onward progress;
but he proves a most vociferous and persistent specimen of his class. Nothing less than a dozen
exclamation points can give the faintest idea of how a "hollering" Persian shouts "H-o-i."

Seven miles over very good gravel, and my road leads into the labyrinth of muddy lanes, ditches,
and water-holes, tumble down walls, and disorderly-looking cemeteries of the suburbs of Semnoon.
In traversing the cemeteries, one cannot help observing how many of the graves are caved in
by the rains and the skeletons exposed to view. Mohammedans bury their dead very shallow, usually
about two feet, and in Persia the grave is often arched over with soft mud bricks; these weaken
and dissolve after the rains and snows of winter, and a cemetery becomes a place of exposed
remains and of pitfalls, where an unwary step on what appears solid ground may precipitate
one into the undesirable company of a skeleton. By the time Semnoon is reached the day has
grown warmer, and the sun favors the cold, dismal earth with a few genial rays, so that the
blooming orchards of peach and pomegranate that brighten and enliven the environs of the city,
and which suggest Semnoon to be a mild and sheltered spot, seem quite natural, notwithstanding
the patches of snow lying about. The crowds seem remarkably well behaved as I trundle through
the bazaar toward the telegraph office, the total absence of missiles being particularly noticeable.
The telegraph-jee proves to be a sensible, enlightened fellow, and quite matter-of-fact in
his manner for a Persian; apart from his duty to the Governor and a few bigwigs of the place,
whom it would be unpardonable in him to overlook or ignore, he saves me as much as possible
from the worrying of the people.

Prince Anushirvan Mirza, Governor of Semnoon, Damghan, and Shahrood, is the Shah's cousin,
son of Baahman Mirza, uncle of the Shah, and formerly Governor of Tabreez. Baahman Mirza was
discovered intriguing with the Russians, and, fearing the vengeance of the Shah, fled from
the country; seeking an asylum among the Russians, he is now--if not dead--a refugee somewhere
in the Caucasus. But the father's disgrace did not prejudice the Shah against his sons, and
Prince Anushirvan and his sons are honored and trusted by the Shah as men capable of distinguishing
between the friends and enemies of their country, and of conducting themselves accordingly.

The Governor's palace is not far from the north gate of the city, and after the customary round
of tea and kalians, without which nothing can be done in Persia, he walks outside with his
staff to a piece of good road in order to see me ride to the best advantage. (As a specimen
of Persian extravagance--to use a very mild term--it may be as well to mention here as anywhere,
that the Governor telegraphed to his son, acting as his deputy at Shahrood, that he had ridden
some miles with me out of the city!)

During the evening one of the Governor's sons, Prince Sultan Madjid Mirza, comes in with a
few leading dignitaries to spend an hour in chatting and smoking. This young prince proves
one of the most intelligent Persians I have met in the country; besides being very well informed
for a provincial Persian, he is bright and quick-witted. Among the gentlemen he brings in with
him is a man who has made the pilgrimage to Mecca via "Iskenderi" (Alexandria) and Suez, and
has, consequently, seen and ridden on the Egyptian railway. The Prince has heard his description
of this railway, and the light thus gained has not unnaturally had the effect of whetting his
curiosity to hear more of the marvellous iron roads of Frangistan; and after exhausting the
usual programme of queries concerning cycling, the conversation leads, by easy transition,
to the subject of railways.

"Do they have railways in Yenghi Donia?" questioned the Prince.

"Plenty of railways; plenty of everything," I reply.

"Like the one at Iskenderi and Stamboul?"

"Better and bigger than both these put together a hundred times over; the Iskenderi railroad
is very small."

Nods and smiles of acquiescence from Prince and listeners follow this statement, which show
plainly enough that they consider it a pardonable lie, such as every Persian present habitually
indulges in himself and thinks favorably of in others.

"Railroads are good things, and Ferenghis are very clever people," says the Prince, renewing
the subject and handing me a handful of salted melon seeds from his pocket, meanwhile nibbling
some himself.

"Yes; why don't you have railroads in Iran? You could then go to Teheran in a few hours."

The Prince smiles amusingly at the thought, as though conscious of railroads in Persia being
a dream altogether too bright to ever materialize, and shaking his head, says: "Pool neis"
(we have no money).

"The English have money and would build the railroad; but, 'Mollah neis' --Baron Reuter?--you
know Baron Reuter--' Mollah neis,' not 'pool neis.'"

The Prince smiles, and signifies that he is well enough aware where the trouble lies; but we
talk no more of railroads, for he and his father and brothers belong to the party of progress
in Persia, and the triumph of priests and old women over the Shah and Baron Reuter's railway
is to them a distressful and humiliating subject.

The late lamented O'Donovan, of "To the Merve" fame, used to make Semnoon his headquarters
while dodging about on the frontier, and was personally known to everyone present. Semnoon
is celebrated for the excellence of its kalian tobacco, and O'Donovan was celebrated in Semnoon
for his love of the kalian. This evening, in talking about him, the telegraph-jee says that
"when he pulled at the kalian he pulled with such tremendous eagerness that the flames leaped
up to the ceiling, and after three whiffs you couldn't see anybody in the room for smoke!"

The telegraph-jee's farrash builds a good wood fire in a cozy little room adjoining the office;
blankets are provided, an ample supper is sent around from the telegraph-jee's house, and what
is still better appreciated, I am left to enjoy these substantial comforts without so much
as a single spectator coming to see me feed; no one comes near me till morning.

The morning breaks cold and clear, and for some six miles the road is very fair wheeling; after
this comes a gradual inclination toward a jutting spur of hills; the following twenty miles
being the toughest kind of a trundle through mud, snow-fields, and drifts. This is a most uninviting
piece of country to wheel through, and it would seem but little less so to traverse at this
time of the year with a caravan of camels, two or three of these animals being found exhausted
by the roadside, and a couple of charvadars encountered in one place skinning another, while
its companion is lying helplessly alongside watching the operation and waiting its own turn
to the same treatment. It is said to be characteristic of a camel that, when he once slips
down, cold and weary, in the mud, he never again tries to regain his feet. The weather looks
squally and unsettled, and I push ahead as rapidly as the condition of the ground will permit,
fearing a snow-storm in the hills.

About three p.m. I arrive at the caravansarai of Ahwan, a dreary, inhospitable place in an
equally dreary, inhospitable country. Situated in a region of wind and snow and bleak, open
hills, the wretched serai of Ahwan is remembered as a place where the keen, raw wind seems
to come whistling gleefully and yet maliciously from all points of the compass, seemingly centring
in the caravansarai itself; these winds render any attempt to kindle a fire a dismal failure,
resulting in smoke and watery eyes. Here I manage to obtain half-frozen bread and a few eggs;
after an ineffectual attempt to roast the latter and thaw out the former, I am forced to eat
them both as they are; and although the sun looks ominously low, and it is six farsakhs to
the next place, I conclude to chance anything rather than risk being snow-bound at Ahwan. Fortunately,
after about five miles more of snow, the trail emerges upon a gravelly plain with a gradual
descent from the hills just crossed to the lower level of the Damghan plain. The favorable
gradient and the smooth trails induce a smart pace, and as the waning daylight merges into
the soft, chastened light of a cloud-veiled moon, I alight at the village and serai of Gusheh.

There are at the caravansarai a number of travellers, among them a moujik of the Don, travelling
to Teheran and beyond in company with a Tabreez Turk. The Russian peasant at once invites me
to his menzil in the caravansarai; and although he looks, if anything, a trifle more indifferent
about personal cleanliness than either a Turkish or Persian peasant, I have no alternative
but to accept his well-meant invitation. At this juncture, when one's thoughts are swayed and
influenced by an appetite that the cold day and hard tugging through the hills have rendered
well-nigh uncontrollable, a prosperous-looking Persian traveller, returning from a pilgrimage
to Meshed with his wives, family, and servitors, quite a respectable-sized retinue, emerges
from the seclusion of his quarters to see the bicycle.

Of course he requests me to ride, sending his link-boys to bring out all the farnoozes to supplement
fair Luna's coy and inefficient beams; and after the performance, the old gentleman promises
to send me round a dish of pillau. In due time the promised pillau comes round, an ample dish,
sufficient to satisfy even my present ravenous appetite, and after this he sends round tea,
lump sugar, and a samovar. The moujik turns to and gets up steam in the samovar, and over tiny
glasses of the cheering but non-intoxicating beverage, he sings a Russian regimental song,
and his comrade, the Tabreez Turk, warbles the praises of Stamboul. But although they make
merry over the tea, methinks both of them would have made still merrier over something stronger,
for the moujik puts in a good share of the evening talking about vodka consumed at Shahrood,
and smacking his lips at the retrospective bliss embodied in its consumption; while the Turk
from Tabreez catches me aside and asks mysteriously if my packages contain any "raki" (arrack).
Like the Ah wan caravansarai, the one at Gusheh seems to draw the chilly winds from every direction,
and I arise from a rude couch, made wretchedly uncomfortable by draughts, the attacks of insects,
and the persistent determination of a horse to use my prostrate form as a rest for his nose-bag,
to find myself the possessor of a sore throat.

Persian travellers are generally up and off before daylight, and the clicking noise (Persian
curry-combs are covered with small rings that make a rattling noise when being used) of currying
horses begins as early as three o'clock. The attendants of the old gentleman of happy remembrance
in connection with last night's pillau and samovar, have been busy for two hours, and his taktrowan
and kajauehs are already occupied and starting, when by the first gleam of awakening dawn I
mount and wheel eastward. A shallow, unbridged stream obstructs my path but a short distance
from Gusheh, and I manage to get in knee-deep in trying to avoid the necessity of removing
my footgear; I then wander several miles off my road to an outlying village. This happy commencement
of a new day is followed by a variable road leading sometimes over stony or gravelly plains
where the wheeling varies through all the stages of goodness, badness, and indifference, and
sometimes through grazing grounds and cultivable areas adjoining the villages.

Scattered about the grazing and arable country are now small towers of refuge, loop-holed for
defense, to which ryots working in the fields, or shepherds tending their flocks, fled for
safety in case of a sudden appearance of Turcoman marauders. But a few years ago men hereabouts
went to plough, sow, or reap with a gun slung at their backs, and a few of them reaching the
shelter of one of these compact little mud towers were able, through the loop-holes, to keep
the Turcomans at bay until relief arrived. The towers are of circular form, about twenty feet
high and fifteen in diameter; the entrance is a very small doorway, often a mere hole to crawl
into, and steps inside lead to the summit; some are roofed in near the top, others are mere
circular walls of mud. On grazing grounds a lower wall often encompasses the tower, fencing
in a larger space that formed a corral for the flocks; the shepherds then, while defending
themselves, were also defending their sheep or goats. In the more exposed localities these
little towers of refuge are often but a couple of hundred yards apart, thickly dotting the
country in all directions, while watch-towers are seen perched on peaks and points of vantage,
the whole scene speaking eloquently of the extraordinary precautions these poor people were
compelled to adopt for the preservation of their lives and property. No wonder Russian intrigue
makes headway in Khorassan and all along the Turco-inan-Perso frontier, for the people can
scarcely help being favorably impressed by the stoppage of Turcoman deviltry in their midst,
and the wholesale liberation of Persian slaves.

The town of Damghan is reached near noon, and I am not a little gratified to learn that the
telegraph-jee has been notified of my approach, and has stationed his farrash at the entrance
to the bazaar, so that I should have no trouble in finding the office. This augurs well for
the reception awaiting me there, and I am accordingly not surprised to find him an exceptionally
affable youth, proud of a word or two of English he had somehow acquired, and of his knowledge
of how to properly entertain a Ferenghi. This latter qualification assumes the eminently practical,
and, it is needless to add, acceptable form of a roast chicken, a heaping dish of pillau, and
sundry other substantial proofs of anticipatory preparations. The telegraph-jee takes great
pleasure in seeing roast chicken mysteriously disappear, and the dish of pillau gradually diminish
in size; in fact, the unconcealed satisfaction afforded by these savory testimonials of his
cook's abilities give him such pleasure that he urges me to remain his guest for a day and
rest up. But Shahrood is only forty miles away, and here I shall have the pleasure of meeting
Mr. McIntyre, before mentioned as line-inspector, who is making his temporary headquarters
at that city. Moreover, angry-looking storm-dogs have accompanied the sun on his ante-meridian
march to-day, and such experience as mine at Lasgird has the effect of making one, if not weather-wise,
at least weather-wary.

In approaching Damghan, long before any other indications of the city appear, twin minarets
are visible, soaring above the stony plain like a pair of huge pillars; these minars belong
to the same mosque, and form a conspicuous landmark for travellers and pilgrims in approaching
Damghan from any direction; at a distance they appear to rise up sheer from the barren plain,
the town being situated in a depression. Six farsakhs from Damghan is the village of Tazaria,
noted in the country round about for the enormous size of the carrots grown there; the minarets
of Damghan and the extraordinary size of the Tazaria vegetables furnish the material for a
characteristic little Eastern story, current among the inhabitants.

Finding that people came from far and near to see the graceful minarets of Damghan, and that
nobody came to see Tazaria, the good people of that neglected village became envious, and they
reasoned among themselves and said: "Why should Damghan have two minarets and Tazaria none?"
So they gathered together their pack-donkeys, their ropes and ladders, and a large company
of men, and reached Damghan in the silence and darkness of the night, intending to pull down
and carry off one of the minarets and erect it in Tazaria. The ropes were fastened to the summit
of the minar, but at the first great pull the brick-work gave way and the top of the tall minaret
came tumbling down with a crash and clatter, killing several of its would-be removers. The
Damghan people turned out, and after hearing the unhappy Tazarians' laments, some sarcastic
citizen gave them a few carrot-seeds, bidding them go home and sow them, and they could grow
all the minarets they wanted. The carrots grew famously, and the villagers of Tazaria, instead
of the promised minarets, found themselves in possession of a new and useful vegetable that
fetched a good price in the Damghan bazaars. The Damghanians, meeting a Tazarian ryot coming
in with a donkey-load of these huge carrots, cannot resist twitting him regarding the minars;
but the now practical Tazarians no longer mourn the absence of minarets in their village, and
when twitted about it, reply: "We have more minarets than you have, but our minarets grow downward
and are good to eat."

During the afternoon I pass many ruined villages and castles, said to have been destroyed by
an earthquake many years ago. Some few natives find remunerative employment in excavating and
washing over the dirt and debris of the ruined castles, in which they find coins, rubies, agates,
turquoise, and women's ornaments; sometimes they unearth skeletons with ornaments still attached.
The sun shines out warm this afternoon, and its genial rays are sufficiently tempting to induce
the jackals to emerge from their hiding-places and bask in its beaming smiles on the sunny
side of the ruins. Wherever there are ruins and skeletons and decay in Eastern lands--and where
are there not?--there also is sure to be found the prowling and sneakish-looking jackal.

Shelter, and the usual rude accommodation, supplemented on this occasion by a wandering luti
and his vicious-looking baboon, as also a company of riotous charvadars, who insist on singing
accompaniments to the luti's soul-harrowing tom-toming till after midnight, are obtained at
the caravansarai of Deh Mollah. From Deh Mollah it is only a couple of farsakhs to Shahrood,
and after the first three miles, which is slightly upgrade and not particularly smooth, it
is downgrade and very fair wheeling the remainder of the distance. The road forks a couple
of miles from Shahrood, and while I am entering by one road, Mr. McIntyre is leaving on horseback
by the other to meet me, guessing, from word received from Damghan, that I must have spent
last night at Deh Mollah, and would arrive at Shahrood this morning.

Only those who have experienced it know anything of the pleasure of two Europeans meeting and
conversing in a country like Persia, where the habits and customs of the natives are so different,
and, to most travellers, uncongenial, and only to be tolerated for a time.

I have met Mr. Mclntyre in Teheran, so we are not total strangers, which, of course, makes
it still more agreeable. After the customary interchange of news, and the discussion of refreshments,
Mr. Mclntyre hands me a telegram from Teheran, which bears a date several days old. It is from
the British Legation, notifying me that permission is refused to go through the Turcoman country;
an appendage from the Charge d'Affaires suggests that I repair to Astrakhan and try the route
through Siberia. And this, then, is the result of General Melnikoff's genial smiles and ready
promises of assistance; after providing myself with proper money and information for the Turkestan
route, on the strength of the Russian Minister's promises, I am overtaken, when three hundred
miles away, with a veto against which anything I might say or do would be of no avail!

Sultan Ahmed Mirza, a sou of Prince Anushirvan, is deputy governor of Shahrood, responsible
to his father; and ere I have arrived an hour the usual request is sent round for a "tomasha,"
the word now used by people wanting to see me ride, and which really means an exhibition. His
place is found in a brick court-yard with the usual central tank, and the airy rooms of the
building all opening upon it, and once again comes the feeling of playing a rather ridiculous
role, as I circle awkwardly around the tank over very uneven bricks, and around short corners
where an upset would precipitate me into the tank--amid, I can't help thinking, "roars of laughter."
The Prince is very lavish of his flowery Persian compliments, and says, "You English have now
left nothing more to do but to bring the dead back to life." In the court-yard my attention
is called to a set of bastinado poles and loops, and Mr. McIntyre asks the Prince if he hasn't
a prisoner on hand, so that he can give us a tomasha in return for the one we are giving him;
but it is now the Persian New Year, and the prisoners have all been liberated.

Here, gentle reader, in Shahrood--but it now behooves us to be dark and mysterious, and deal
in hints and whispers, for the Persian proprieties must not be ruthlessly violated and then
as ruthlessly exposed to satisfy the prying curiosity of far off Frangistan that would never do.

Behold, then, Mr. Mclntyre absent; behold all male humans absent save myself and a couple of
sable eunuchs, whose smooth, whiskerless faces betray inward amusement at the extreme novelty
of the situation, and we all alone between the high brick walls that encircle the secrecy of
an inner court--and yet not all alone, fortell it in whispers--some half-dozen shrouded female
forms are clustered together in one corner. Yashmaks are drawn aside, and plump oval faces
and bright eyes revealed, faces brown and soft of outline, eyes black, large and lustrous,
with black lines skillfully drawn to make them look still larger, and lashes deeply stained
to impart love and languor to their wondrous depths. Whisper it not in Gath, and tell it not
in the streets of Frangistan, that the wondrous asp-i-awhan has proved an open sesame capable
of revealing to an inquisitive and all-observant Ferenghi the collective charms of a Persian
swell's harem!

We can imagine these ladies in the seclusion of the zenana hearing of the Ferenghi and his
wonderful iron horse, and overwhelmed with feminine curiosity, with much coaxing and promising,
obtaining reluctant consent for a strictly secret and decorous tomasha, with covered faces
and no one present but the attendant eunuchs and the Ferenghi, who, fortunately, will soon
leave the country, never to return. Mohammedan women are merely overgrown children, and the
promise of strict decorousness is forgotten or ignored the moment the tomasha begins; and the
fun and the wickedness of removing their yashmaks in the presence of a Ferenghi is too rare
an opportunity to be missed, and, no doubt, furnishes them with material for amusing conversation
for many a day after. Rare fun these ladies think it to uncover their olive faces and let the
Ferenghi see their beauty; the eunuchs are generally indulgent to their charges whenever they
can safely be so, and on this occasion they content themselves with looking on and saying nothing.
After seeing me ride, the ladies cluster boldly around and examine the bicycle, chatting freely
among themselves the while concerning its capabilities; but some of the younger ladies regard
me with fully as much curiosity as the bicycle, for never before did they have such an opportunity
of scrutinizing a Ferenghi.

And now, while granted the privilege of this little revelation, we must be very careful not
to reveal the secret of whose harem we have seen unveiled, and whose inner court our paran
wheels have pressed; for the whirligig of time brings about strange things, and apparently
trifling things that have been indiscreetly published by travellers in books at home, have
sometimes found their way back to the far East, and caused embarrassment and chagrin to people
who treated them with hospitality and respect.

CHAPTER IV.

THROUGH KHORASSAN.

Shahrood is at the exit from the mountains of the caravan route from Asterabad, Mazanderan,
and the Caspian coast. The mountains overlooking it are bare and rocky. A good trade seems
to be done by several firms of Russian-Armenians in exporting wool, cotton, and pelts to Russia,
and handling Russian iron and petroleum. But for the iniquitous method of taxation, which consists
really of looting the producing classes of all they can stand, the volume of trade here might
easily be tenfold what it is.

Shahrood is, or rather was, one of the "four stations of terror," Mijamid, Miandasht, and Abassabad
being the other three, so called on account of their exposed position and the consequent frequency
of Turcoman attacks. Even nowadays they have their little ripples of excitement; rumors of
Turcoman raids are heard in the bazaars, and news was brought in and telegraphed to Teheran
a week ago that fifteen thousand sheep had been carried off from a district north of the mountains.
Word comes back that a regiment of soldiers is on its way to chastise the Turcomans and recover
the property; what really will happen, will be a horde of soldiers staying there long enough
to devour what few sheep the poor people have left, and then returning without having seen,
much less chastised, a Turcoman. The Persian Government will notify the Russian Minister of
the misdoings of the Turcomans, and ask to have them punished and the sheep restored; the Russian
Minister will reply that these particular Turcomans were Persian subjects, and nothing further
will be done.

Mr. Mclntyre is a canny Scot, a Royal Engineer, and weighs fully three hundred pounds; but
with this avoirdupois he is far from being inactive, and together we ramble up the Asterabad
Pass to take a look at the Bostam Valley on the other side. The valley isn't much to look at;
no verdure, only a brown, barren plain, surrounded on all sides by equally brown, barren mountains.
In the evening the Prince sends round a pheasant, and shortly after calls himself and partakes
of tea and cigarettes,

I accept Mr. McIntyre's invitation to remain and rest up, but only for another day, my experience
being that, when on the road, one or two days' rest is preferable to a longer period; one gets
rested without getting out of condition. We take a stroll through the bazaar in the morning,
and call in at the wine-shop of a Russian-Armenian trader named Makerditch, who keeps arrack
and native wine, and sample some of the latter. In his shop is a badly stuffed Mazanderaii
tiger, and the walls of the private sitting-room are decorated with rude, old-fashioned prints
of saints and scriptural scenes. It is now the Persian New Year, and bright new garments and
snowy turbans impart a gay appearance to the throngs in the bazaar, for everybody changed his
wardrobe from tip to toe on eid-i-noo-roos (evening before New Year's Day), although the "great
unwashed" of Persian society change never a garment for the next twelve months. Considering
that the average lower-class Persian puts in a good share of this twelve months in the unprofitable
process of scratching himself, one would think it must be an immense relief for him to cast
away these old habiliments with all their horrid load of filth and vermin, and don a clean,
new outfit; but the new ones soon get as thickly tenanted as the old; and many even put the
new garments on over certain of the old ones, caring nothing for comfort and cleanliness, and
everything for appearance. The Persian New Year's holiday lasts thirteen days, and on the evening
of the thirteenth day everybody goes out into the fields and plucks flowers and grasses to
present to his or her friends.

Governors of provinces who retain their position in consequence of having sent satisfactory
tribute to the Shah, and ruled with at least a semblance of justice, get presents of new robes
on New Year's Day, and those who have been unfortunate enough to lose the royal favor get removed:
New Year's Day brings either sorrow or rejoicing to every Persian official's house.

The morning of my departure opens bright and warm after a thunder-storm the previous evening,
and Mr. Mclntyre accompanies me to the outskirts of the city, to put me on the right road to
Mijamid, my objective point for the day, eleven farsakhs distant. The streets are, of course,
muddy and unridable, and ere the suburbs are overcome a messenger overtakes us from the Prince,
begging me to return and drink tea with him before starting.

"Tell the Prince, the sahib sends salaams, but cannot spare the time to return," replies my
companion, who knows Persian thoroughly. "You must come," says the messenger, "for the Khan
of Bostam has arrived to pay the New Year's salaam to the Prince, and the Prince wants you
to show him the bicycle."

"'Must come!' Tell the Prince that when the sahib gets fairly started, as he is now, with his
bicycle, he wouldn't turn back for the Shah himself."

The messenger looks glum and crestfallen, as though very reluctant to return with such a message,
a message that probably sounds to him strangely disrespectful, if not positively treasonable;
but he sees the uselessness of bandying words, and so turns about, feeling and looking very
foolish, for he addressed us very boldly and confidently before the whole crowd when he overtook
us.

A few small streams have to be crossed on leaving Shahrood for the cast; splendid rivulets
of clear, cold water in which there ought to be trout. After these streams the road launches
at once on to a level camel-thorn plain, the gravelled surface of which provides excellent
wheeling. An outlying village and caravanserai is passed through at a couple of farsakhs, where,
as might be expected in the "district of terror," are hundreds of the little towers of refuge.
This village would be in a very exposed position, and it looks as though it is but just now
being rebuilt and repopulated after a period of ruin and desertion. Beyond this village the
towers of refuge and other signs of human occupation disappear; the uncultivated desert reigns
supreme on either hand; but the wheeling continues fairly good, although a strong headwind
somewhat impedes my progress. Beyond the level plain and the lower hills to the north are the
snowy heights of the Elburz range; a less ambitious range of mountains forms a barrier some
twenty miles to the south, and in the distant southeast there looms up a dark, massive pile
that recalls at a glance memories of Elk Mountain, Wyoming; though upon a closer inspection
there is no doubt but that the densely wooded slopes of our old acquaintance of the Rockies
would be found wanting.

Twenty miles of this level plain is traversed, and I find myself gazing curiously at a range
of mica-flecked hills off to the right. These hills present a very curious appearance; the
myriads of flakes of mica scattered all about glitter and glint in the bright sunlight as if
they might be diamonds, and it requires but an easy effort of the imagination to fancy one's
self in some strange, rich land of the "gorgeous East," where precious jewels are scattered
about like stones. These mica-spangled hills bear about the same relation to what one's imagination
might conceive them to be as the "gorgeous East" as it actually exists does to the "gorgeous
East" we read of in fairytales.

Beyond the mica hills, I pass through a stretch of abandoned cultivation, where formerly existed
fields and ditches, and villages with an abundance of portable property tempted Turkoman raiders
to guide their matchless chargers hither. But small outlying settlements hereabout were precarious
places to live in, and the persistent damans generally caused them to be abandoned entirely
from time to time.

The road has averaged good to-day, and Mijamid is reached at four o'clock. Seeking the shelter
of the chapar-khana, that devoted building is soon surrounded by a new-dressed and accordingly
a good-natured and vociferous crowd shouting--"Sowar shuk! sowar shuk! tomasha! tomasha!"

As I survey the grinning, shouting multitude from my retreat on the roof, and note the number
of widely-opened mouths, the old wicked thoughts about hot potatoes and dexterity in throwing
them persist in coming to the fore. Several scrimmages and quarrels occur between the chapar-jee
and his shagirds, and the crowd, who persist in invading the premises, and the tumult around
is something deafening, for it is holiday times and the people feel particularly self-indulgent
and disinclined for self-denial. In the midst of the uproar, from out the chaotic mass of rainbow-colored
costumes, there forms a little knot of mollahs in huge snowy turbans and flowing gowns of solid
blue or green, and at their head the gray-bearded patriarchal-looking old khan of the village
in his flowered robe of office from the governor. These gay-looking, but comparatively sober-sided
representatives of the village, endeavor to have the crowd cease their clamorous importunities--an
attempt, however, that results in signal failure--and they constitute themselves a delegation
to approach me in a respectful and decorous manner, and ask me to ride for the satisfaction
of themselves and the people.

The profound salaams and good taste of these eminently respectable personages are not to be
resisted, and after satisfying them, the khan promises to provide me with supper, which at
a later hour turns up in the form of the inevitable dish of pillau.

Two miles on the road next morning and it begins raining; at five miles it develops into a
regular downpour, that speedily wets me through. A small walled village is finally reached
and shelter obtained beneath its ample portals, a place that seems to likewise be the loafing-place
of the village. The entrance is a good-sized room, and here on wet days the men can squat about
and smoke, and at the same time see everything that passes on the road. The village is defended
by a strong mud wall some thirty feet high, and strengthened with abutting towers at frequent
intervals; the only entrance is the one massive door, and inside there is plenty of room for
all the four-footed possessions of the people; the houses are the usual little mud huts with
thatched beehive roofs, built against the wall. The flocks of goats and sheep are admitted
inside every evening, and taken out again to graze in the morning; the appearance of the interior
is that of a very filthy, undrained, and utterly neglected farmyard, and as no breath of wind
ever passes through it, or comes any nearer the ground than the top of the thirty-foot wall,
living in its reeking, pent-up exhalations must be something abominable.

Such a place as this in Persia would be fairly swarming with noxious insect life, of which
fleas would be the most tolerable variety, and two-thirds of the people would be suffering
from chronic ophthalmia. This little village, doubtless, had enough to do a few years ago to
maintain its existence, even with its remarkably strong walls; and on the highest mountain
peaks round about they point out to me their watch-towers, where sentinels daily scanned the
country round for the wild horsemen they so much dreaded. Four men and three women among the
little crowd gathered about me here, are pointed out as having been released from slavery by
the Russians, when they captured Khiva and liberated the Persian slaves and sent them home.
Every village and hamlet along this part of the country contains its quota of returned captives
who, no doubt, entertain lively recollections of being carried off and sold.

Soon after my arrival here, a little, weazen-faced, old seyud, in a threadbare and badly-faded
green gown, comes hobbling through the rain and the mahogany-colored slush of the village yard
to the gate. Everybody rises respectfully as he comes in, and the old fellow, accustomed to
having this deference paid him by everybody about him, and wishing to show courtesy to a Ferenghi,
motions for me to keep seated. Seeing that I had no intention of rising, this courtesy was
somewhat superfluous, but the incident serves to show how greatly these simple villagers are
impressed with the idea of a seyud's superiority, to say nothing of the seyud's assumption
of the same. They explain to me that the little, unwashed, unkempt, and well-nigh unclad specimen
of humanity examining the bicycle is a seyud, with the manner of people pointing out a being
of unapproachable superiority. Still, looking at the poor old fellow's rags, and remembering
that it is new year and the time for a change of raiment, one cannot help thinking, "Old fellow,
you evidently come in for more resect, after all, than material assistance, and would, no doubt,
willingly exchange a good deal of the former for a little of the latter." Still, one must not
be too confident of this; the bodily requirements of a wrinkled old seyud would be very trifling,
while his egotism would, on the other hand, be insufferable. This is a grazing village chiefly,
and the gravelly desert comes close up to the walls, so that there is no difficulty about pushing
on immediately after it ceases raining.

Two farsakhs of variable wheeling through a belt of low hills and broken country, and two more
over the level Miandasht Plain, and the caravanserai of Miandasht is reached. Here the village,
the telegraph office and everything is enclosed within the protecting walls of an immense Shah
Abbas caravanserai, a building capable of affording shelter and protection to five thousand
people. In the old--and yet not so very old--dangerous days, it was necessary, for safety,
that travellers and pilgrims should journey together through this section of country in large
caravans, otherwise disaster was sure to overtake them; and Shah Abbas the Great built these
huge caravanserais for their accommodation. In deference to the memory of this monarch as a
builder of caravanserais all over the country, any large serai is nowadays called a Shah Abbas
caravanserai, whether built by him or not. Certainly not less than three hundred pack-camels,
besides other animals, are resting and feeding, or being loaded up for the night march as I
ride up, their myriad clanging bells making a din that comes floating across the plain to meet
me as I approach.

Miandasht is the first place in Khorassan proper, and among the motley gathering of charmdars,
camel-drivers, pilgrims, travellers, villagers and hangers-on about the serai, are many Khorassanis
wearing huge sheepskin busbies, similar to the head-gear of the Roumanians and Tabreez Turks
of Ovahjik and the Perso-Turkish border. Most of these busbies are black or brown, but some
affect a mixture of black and white, a piebald affair that looks very striking and peculiar.

The telegraph-jee here turns out to be a person of immense importance in his own estimation,
and he has evidently succeeded in impressing the same belief upon the unsophisticated minds
of the villagers, who, apparently, have come to regard him as little less than "monarch of
all he surveys." True, there isn't much to survey at Miaudasht, everything there being within
the caravanserai walls; but whenever the telegraph-jee emerges from the seclusion of his little
office, it is to blossom forth upon the theatre of the crowd's admiring glances in the fanciful
habiliments of a la-de-da Persian swell. Very punctilious as regards etiquette, instead of
coming forth in a spontaneous manner to see who I am and look at the bicycle, he pays me a
ceremonious visit at the chapar-khana half an hour later. In this visit he is preceded by his
farrash, and he walks with a magnificent peacock strut that causes the skirts of his faultless
roundabout to flop up and down, up and down, in rhythmic accompaniment to his steps. Apart
from his insufferable conceit, however, he tries to make himself as agreeable as possible,
and after tea and cigarettes, I give him and the people a tomasha, at the conclusion of which
he asks permission to send in my supper.

The room in which I spend the evening is a small, dome-roofed apartment, in which a circular
opening in the apex of the dome is expected to fill the triple office of admitting light, ventilation,
and carrying off smoke from the fire; the natural consequence being that the room is dark,
unventilated, and full of smoke. Now and then some determined sightseer on the roof fills this
hole up completely with his head, in an effort to peer down through the smoke and obtain a
glimpse of myself or the bicycle, or a mischievous youngster, unable to resist the temptation,
drops down a stone.

The shagird-chapar here is a man who has been to Askabad and seen the railroad; and when the
inevitable question of Russian versus English marifet (mechanical skill) comes up, he endeavors
to impress upon the open-mouthed listeners the marvellous character of the locomotive. "It
is a wonderful atesh-gharri" (fire-wagon), he would say, "and runs on an awhan rah (iron road);
the charvadar puts in atesh and ob. It goes chu, chu! chu!! ch-ch-ch-chu-ch-u-u-u!!! spits
fire and smoke, pulls a long-khylie long-caravan of forgans with it, and goes ten farsakhs
an hour." But in order to thoroughly appreciate this travelled and highly enlightened person's
narrative, one must have been present in the smoke-permeated room, and by the nickering light
of a camel-thorn fire have watched the gesticulations of the speaker and the rapt attention
of the listeners; must have heard the exclamations of "Mashal-l-a-h!" escape honestly and involuntarily
from the parted lips of wonder-stricken auditors as they endeavored to comprehend how such
things could possibly be. And yet there is no doubt that, five minutes afterward, the verdict
of each listener, to himself, was that the shagird-chapar, in describing to them the locomotive,
was lying like a pirate--or a Persian--and, after all, they couldn't conceive of anything more
wonderful than the bicycle and the ability to ride it, and this they had seen with their own eyes.

It is the change of the moon, and a most wild-looking evening; the sun sets with a fiery forge
glowing about it, and fringing with an angry border the banks of darksome clouds that mingle
their weird shapes with the mountain masses to the west, the wind sighs and moans through the
archways and menzils of the huge caravanserai, breathing of rain and unsettled weather. These
warning signals are not far in advance, for a drenching rain soaks and saturates everything
during the night, converting the parallel trails of the pilgrim road into twenty narrow, silvery
streaks, that glisten like trails of glass ahead, as I wheel along them to meet the newly-risen
sun. It is a morning of hurrying, scudding clouds and fitful sunshine, but fresh and bracing
after the rain; a country of broken hills and undulating road is reached in an hour; the broken
hills are covered with blossoming shrubs and green young camel-thorn, in which birds are cheerily
piping.

Six farsakhs bring me to Abbasabad, the last of the four stations of terror. A lank villager
is on the lookout a couple of miles west of the place, the people having been apprised of my
coming by some travellers who left Miandasht yesterday evening. Tucking the legs of his pantaloons
in his waistband, leaving his legs bare and unencumbered, he follows me at a swinging trot
into the village, and pilots me to the caravanserai. The population of the place are found
occupying their housetops, and whatever points of vantage they can climb to, awaiting my appearance,
their curiosity having been wrought to the highest pitch by their informant's highly exaggerated
accounts of what they might expect to see. The prevailing color of the female costume is bright
red, and the swarms of these gayly-dressed people congregated on the housetops, and mingled
promiscuously with the dark gray of the mud walls and domes, makes a picture long to be remembered.

And long also to be remembered is the reception awaiting me inside the caravanserai yard--the
surging, pushing, struggling, shouting mob, among whom I notice, with some wonderment and speculation,
a far larger proportion of blue-eyed people than I have hitherto seen in Persia. Upon inquiry
it is learned that Abbasabad is a colony of Georgians, planted and subsidized here by Shah
Abbas the Great, as a check on the Turkomans, whose frequent alamans rendered the roads hereabout
well-nigh impassable for caravans. These warlike mountaineers were brought from the Caucasus
and colonized here, with lands, exemption from taxes, and given an annual subsidy. They were
found to be of good service as a check on the Turkomans, but were not much of an improvement
upon the Turkomans themselves in many respects. As seen in the caravanserai to-day, they seem
a turbulent, headstrong crowd of people, accustomed to be petted, and to do pretty much as
they please.

At the caravanserai is a traveller who says he hails from the Pishin Valley, and he produces
a certificate in English, recommending him as a stone mason. The certificate settles all doubts
of his being from India, for were one to meet an Hindostani in the classic shades of purgatory
itself, he would immediately produce a certificate recommending him for something or other.
As the crowd surge and struggle for some position around me where they can enjoy the exquisite
delight of seeing me sip tiny glasses of scalding hot tea, prepared by the enterprising individual
who met me two miles out, the Pishin Valley man tries to look amused at them, and to rise superior
to the situation, as becomes a person to whom a Sahib, and whatever wonderful things he may
possess, are nothing extraordinary. The crowd seem very loath to let such an extraordinary
thing as the bicycle and its rider depart from among them so soon, although at the same time
anxious to see me speed along the smooth, straight trails that fortunately lead directly from
the caravanserai eastward. Scores of the shouting, yelling mob race, bare-footed and bare-legged,
over the stones and gravel alongside the bicycle, until I can put on a spurt and out-distance
them, which I take care to do as soon as practicable, thankful to get away and eat the bread
pocketed in disgust at the caravanserai in the peace and quietude of the desert.

Beyond Abbasabad my road skirts Mazinan Lake to the north, passing between the slimy mud-flats
of the lake shore and the ever-present Elburz foot-hills, and then through several wholly ruined
or partially ruined villages to Mazinan, where I arrive about sunset, my wheel yet again a
mass of mud, for the Mazinan lake country is a muddy hole in spring. A drizzling rain ushers
in the dusky shades of the evening, as I repair to the chaparkhana, a wretched hole, in a most
dilapidated condition. The balakhana is little better than being out of doors; the roof leaks
like a colander, the windows are mere unglazed holes in the wall, and the doors are but little
better than the windows. It promises to be a cold, draughty, comfortless night, and the prospects
for supper look gloomy enough in the light of smoky camel-thorn and no samovar to make a cup
of tea.

Such is the cheerless prospect confronting me after a hard day's run, when, soon after dark,
a man arrives with a thrice-welcome invitation from a Russian officer, who he says is staying
at the caravanserai. The officer, he says, has pillau, kabobs, wine, plenty of everything,
and would be glad if I would bring my machine and come and accept his hospitality for the night.
Under the circumstances nothing could be more welcome news than this; and picturing to myself
a pleasant evening with a genial, hospitable gentleman, I take the bicycle down the slippery
and broken mud stairway, and follow my guide through drizzling rain and darkness, over ditches
and through miry byways, to the caravanserai.

The officer is found squatting, Asiatic-like, on his menzil floor, his overcoat over his shoulders.
He is watching his cook broiling kabobs for his supper. It is a cheery, hopeful prospect, the
glowing charcoal fire sparkling in response to the vigorous waving of half a saddle-flap, the
savory, sizzling kabobs and the carpeted menzil, in comparison with the dreary tumble-down
place I have just left. My first impression of the officer himself, however, is scarcely so
favorable as my impression of the picture in which he is set--the picture as just described;
a sinister leer characterizes the expression of his face, and what appears like a nod, with
an altogether unnecessary amount of condescension in it, characterizes his greeting. Hopping
down to the ground, lamp in hand, he examines the bicycle minutely, and then indirectly addressing
the by-standers, he says, "Pooh! this thing was made in Tiflis; there's hundreds of them in
Tiflis." Having delivered himself of this lying statement, he hops up on the menzil front again
and, without paying the slightest attention to me, resumes his squatting position at the fire,
and his occupation of watching the preparations of his cook. Nothing is more evident to me
than that he had never before seen a bicycle, and astounded at this conduct on the part of
an officer who doubtless thinks himself a civilized being, even though he might not understand
anything of our own conception of an "officer and a gentleman," I begin looking around for
an explanation from the fellow who brought me the invitation, thinking there must be some mistake.
The man has disappeared and is nowhere to be found.

The chapar-jee accompanied us to the caravanserai, and seeing that this man has bolted, and
that the Russian officer's intentions toward me are anything but hospitable, he calls the missing
man--or the officer, I don't know which--a pedar suktar (son of a burnt father), and suggests
returning to the cold comfort of the bala-khana. My own feelings upon realizing that this wretched,
unscrupulous Muscovite has craftily designed and executed this plan for no other purpose but
to insult and humiliate one whom he took for granted to be an Englishman, in the eyes of the
Persian travellers present, I prefer to pass over and leave to the reader's imagination. After
sleeping on it and thinking it over, early next morning I returned to the caravanserai, bent
on finding the fellow who brought the invitation, giving him a thrashing, and seeing if the
officer would take it up in his behalf. In the morning, the cossacks said he had gone away;
whether gone away or hiding somewhere in the caravanserai, he was nowhere to be found; which
perhaps was just as well, for the affair might have ended in bloodshed, and in a fight the
chances would have been decidedly against myself.

This incident, disagreeable though it be to think of, is instructive as showing the possibilities
for mean and contemptible action that may lurk beneath the uniform of a Russian officer. Russian
officers as a general thing, however, it is but fair to add, would show up precisely the reverse
of this fellow, under similar circumstances, being genial and hospitable to a fault; still,
I venture that in no other army in the world, reckoning itself civilized, could be found even
one officer capable of displaying just such a spirit as this.

The unwelcome music of pattering rain and flowing water in the concert I have to sit and listen
to all the forenoon, and a glance outside is rewarded by the dreariest of prospects. The landscape
as seen from my lone and miserable lookout, consists of gray mud-fields and gray mud-ruins,
wet and slimy with the constant rains; occasional barley-fields mosaic the dreary prospect
with bright green patches, but across them all--the mud-flats, the ruins, and the barley-fields--the
driving rain sweeps remorselessly along, and the wind moans dismally. There is only one corner
of my room proof against the drippings from the roof, and through the wretched apologies for
doors and windows the driving rain comes in. Everything seems to go wrong in this particular
place. I obtain tea and sugar, but there is no samovar, and the chapar-jee attempts to make
it in an open kettle; the result is sweetened water, lukewarm and smoky. I then send for pomegranates,
which turn out to be of a sour, uneatable variety; but worse than all is the dreary consciousness
of being hopelessly imprisoned for an uncertain period.

It grows gradually colder, and toward noon the rain changes to snow; the cold and the penetrating
snow drive me into the shelter of the ill-smelling stables. It blows a perfect hurricane all
the afternoon, accompanied by fitful squalls of snow and hail, and the same programme continues
the greater part of the night. But in the morning I am thankful to discover that the wind has
dried the surface sufficiently to enable me to escape from my mud-environed prison and its
uncongenial associations.

Before getting many miles from Mazinan, I encounter the startling novelty of streams of liquid
mud, rolling their thick, yellow flood over the plain in treacly waves, travelling slowly,
like waves of molten lava. The mud is only a few inches deep, but the streams overspread a
considerable breadth of country, as my road is some miles from where they leave the mountains,
and they seem to have no well-defined channels to flow in. A stream of slimy, yellow mud, two
hundred yards wide, is a most disagreeable obstacle to overcome with a bicycle; but confined
in narrow, deep channels, the conditions would be infinitely worse. It is a dreary and forbidding
stretch of country hereabout, the carcasses of camels that have dropped exhausted by the roadside,
are frequently passed, and jackals feasting on them slink off at my approach, watch my progress
past with evident impatience, and then return again to their feast. Occasional stretches of
very fair wheeling are passed over, and at six farsakhs I reach Mehr, the usual combination
of brick caravanserai and mud village.

Here a halt is made for tea and such rude refreshments as are obtainable, consuming them in
the presence of the usual sore-eyed and miserable-looking crowd; more than one poor wretch
appealing to me to cure his rapidly-failing sight. A gleam of warm sunshine brightens my departure
from Mehr, and after shaking off several following horsemen, the going seems quite pleasant,
the wheeling being very good indeed. The mountains off to the left are variegated and beautiful
on the lower and intermediate slopes, and are crested with snow; scudding cloudlets, whose
multiform shadows are continually climbing up and over the mountains, produce a pleasing kaleidoscopic
effect, and here and there a sunny, glistening peak rises superior to the changeful scenes below.

Sheepskin-busbied shepherds are tending flocks of very peculiar-looking sheep on this plain,
the first of the kind I have noticed. The fatty continuation of the body, popularly regarded
as an abnormal growth of tail, is wanting; but what is lacking in this respect is amply compensated
for in the pendulous ears, these members hanging almost to the ground; they have a goatish
appearance generally, and may possibly be the result of a cross. Herds of antelope also frequent
this locality, which by and by develops into a level mud-plain that affords smooth and excellent
wheeling, and over which I take the precaution of making the best time possible, conscious
that a few minutes' rain would render it impassable for a bicycle; and wild wind-storms are
even now careering over it, accompanied by spits of snow and momentary squalls of hail.

A lone minar, looming up directly ahead like a tall factory chimney, indicates my approach
to Subzowar. The minaret is reached by sunset; it turns out to be a lone shrine of some imam,
from which it is yet two farsakhs to Subzowar. The wheeling from this point, however, is very
good, and I roll into Subzowar, or, at least, up to its gate, for Subzowar is a walled city,
shortly after dark. Sherab (native wine) they tell me, is obtainable in the bazaar, but when
I inquire the price per bottle, with a view of sending for one, several eager aspirants for
the privilege of fetching it shout out different prices, the lowest figure mentioned being
three times the actual price. Being rather indifferent about the doubtful luxury of drinking
wine for the amusement of an eagerly curious crowd, which I know only too well beforehand will
be my unhappy portion, I conclude to chagrin and disappoint the whole dishonest crew by doing
without. One gets so thoroughly disgusted with the ever-present trickery, dishonesty, and prying,
unrestrained curiosity of the ragged, sore-eyed and garrulous crowds that gather about one
at every halting place, that a person actually comes to prefer a mere crust of bread in peace
by a road-side pool to the best a city bazaar affords.

A well-dressed individual makes his salaam and intrudes his person upon the scene of my early
preparations to depart, on the following morning, and, when I start, takes upon himself the
office of conducting me through the labyrinthian bazaar and to the gate of exit beyond. I am
wondering somewhat who this individual may be, and wherefore the officiousness of his demeanor
to the crowd at our heels; but his mission is soon revealed, for on the way out he pilots me
into the court-yard of the Reis, or mayor of the city. The Reis receives me with the glad and
courteous greeting of a person desirous of making himself agreeable and of creating a favorable
impression; trays of sweetmeats are produced, and tea is served up in little porcelain cups.

As soon as tea and sweetmeats and kalians appear on the board, mollahs and seyuds mysteriously
begin to put in an appearance likewise, filing noiselessly in and taking their places near
or distant from the Reis, according to their respective rank and degree of holiness. My observations
everywhere in the Land of the Lion and the Sun all tend to the conclusion that whenever and
wherever a samovar of tea begins to sing its cheery and aromatic song, and the soothing hubble-bubble
of the kalian begins telling its seductive tale of solid comfort and social intercourse, a
huge green or white turban is certain to appear on the scene, a robed figure steps out of its
slippers at the door, glides noiselessly inside, puts its hand on its stomach, salaams, and
drops, as silently as a ghost might, in a squatting attitude among the guests. Hardly has this
one taken his position than another one appears at the door and goes through precisely the
same programme, followed shortly afterward by another, and yet others; these foxy-looking members
of the Persian priesthood always seem to me to possess the faculty of scenting these little
occasions from afar and of following their noses to the place with unerring precision.

Upon emerging from the shelter of the city and adjacent ruins, I find myself confronted by
a furious head-wind, against which it is quite impossible to ride, and almost impossible to
trundle. During the forenoon I meet on the road a disgraced official, in the person of the
Asaf-i-dowleh, Governor-General of Khorassan, returning to Teheran from Meshed, having been
recalled at New Year's by the Shah to give an account of himself for "oppressing the people,
insulting the Prophet, and intriguing with the Russians." The Asaf-i-dowleh made himself very
obnoxious to the priests and people of the holy city by arresting a criminal within the place
of refuge at Imam Riza's tomb, and by an outrageous devotion to his own pecuniary interests
at the public expense. Riots occurred, the mob taking possession of the telegraph-office and
smashing the windows, because they fancied their petition to the Shah was being tampered with.
A timely rain-storm dispersed the mob and gave time for the Shah's reply to arrive, promising
the Asaf-i-dowleh's removal and disgrace. The ex-Governor is in a carriage drawn by four grays;
his own women are in gayly gilded taktrowans, upholstered with crimson satin; the women of
his followers occupy several pairs of kajavehs, and the household goods of the party follow
behind in a number of huge Russian forgans or wagons, each drawn by four mules abreast. Besides
these are a long string of pack-camels, mules, and attendants on horseback, forming altogether
the most imposing cavalcade I have met on a Persian road. How they manage to get the heavily
loaded forgans and the Governor's carriage over such places as the pass near Lasgird is something
of a mystery--but there may be another route--at any rate, hundreds of villagers would be called
out to assist.

An opportunity also presents this morning of seeing the amount of obstinacy and perverseness
that manages to find lodgement within the unsightly curves and angles of a runaway camel. A
riding-camel, led by its owner, scares at the bicycle, and, breaking away, leads him a lively
chase through a belt of low sand ridges near the road, jolting various packages off his back
as he runs. Every time the man gets almost within seizing distance of the rope, the contrary
camel starts off again in a long, awkward lope, slowing up again, as though maliciously inviting
his owner to try it over again, when he has covered a couple of hundred yards. These manoeuvres
are repeated again and again, until the chase has extended to perhaps four miles, when a party
of travellers assist in rounding him up; the man then has to re-traverse the whole four miles
and gather up the things.

A late luncheon of bread, warm from the oven, is obtained at the village of Lafaram, where
I likewise obtain a peep behind the scenes of everyday village life, and see something of their
mode of baking bread. The walled village of Lafaram presents a picture of manure heaps, holes
of filthy water, mud-hovels, naked, sore eyed youngsters, unkempt, unwashed, bedraggled females,
goats, chickens, and all the unsavory elements that enter into the composition of a wretched,
semi-civilized community. With bare, uncombed heads, bare-armed, bare-breasted, and bare-limbed,
and with their nakedness scarcely hidden beneath a few coarse rags, some of the women are engaged
in making and baking bread, and others in the preparation of tezek from cow manure and chopped
straw. In carrying on these two occupations the women mingle, chat, and help each other with
happy-go-lucky indifference to consequences, and with a breezy unconsciousness of there being
anything repulsive about the idea of handling hot cakes with one hand and tezek with the other.
The ovens are huge jars partially sunk in the ground; fire is made inside and the jar heated;
flat cakes of dough are then stuck in the inside of the jar, a few minutes sufficing for the
baking. The hand and arm the woman inserts inside the heated jar is wrapped with old rags and
frequently dipped in a jar of water standing by to keep it cooled; the bread thus baked tastes
very good when fresh, but it requires a stomach rendered unsqueamish by dire necessity to relish
it after seeing it baked.

The plain beyond Lafaram assumes the character of an acclivity, that in four farsakhs terminates
in a pass through a spur of hills. The adverse wind blows furiously all day and shows no signs
of abating as the dusk of evening settles down over the landscape. A wayside caravanserai is
reached at the entrance to the pass, and I determine to remain till morning. Here I meet with
a piece of good fortune in a small way, in the shape of a leg of wild goat, obtained from a
native Nimrod; a thin rod of iron, obtained from the serai-jee, serves for a skewer, and I
spend the evening in roasting and eating wild-goat kabobs, while a youth fans the little charcoal
fire for me with the sole of an old geiveh.

CHAPTER V.

MESHED THE HOLY.

Warning spits of snow accompany my early morning departure from the wayside caravanserai, and
it quickly develops into a blinding snow-storm that effectually obscures the country around,
although melting as it touches the ground.

A mile from the caravanserai the trails fork, and, taking the wrong one, I wander some miles
up the mountains ere discovering my mistake. Retracing my way, the right road is finally taken;
but the gale increases in violence, the cold is numbing to unprotected hands and ears, and
the wind and driving snow difficult to face. At one point the trail leads through a morass,
in which are two dead horses, swamped in attempting to cross, and near by lies an abandoned
camel, lying in the mud and wearily munching at a heap of kali (cut barley-straw) placed before
him by his owners before leaving him to his kismet; perchance with a forlorn hope that he might
pull through and finally regain his feet.

I have a narrow escape from swamping in the treacherous morass myself, sinking knee-deep in
the slimy, oozing mud-mass, pulling off my geivehs and having no end of trouble in recovering them.

Shurab is reached about noon, where the customary crowd and customary rude accommodations await
me. Quite an unaccustomed luxury, however, is obtained at Shurab--a substance made from grapes,
called sheerah, which resembles thin molasses. A communal dish, which I see the chapar-jee
and his sliagirds prepare for themselves and eat this evening, consists of one pint of sheerah,
half that quantity of grease, a handful of chopped onions and a quart of water. This awful
mixture is stewed for a few minutes and then poured over a bowl of broken bread; they then
gather around and eat it with their hands--that they also eat it with great gusto goes without
saying.

Opium smoking appears to be indulged in to a great extent here, two out of the three chapar
men putting in a good portion of their time "hitting" the seductive pipe, and tinkering with
their opium-smoking apparatus. They only have one outfit between them; both of them are half
blind with ophthalmia, and the bane of their wretched existence seems to be a Russian candle-lamp,
with a broken globe, that persists in falling apart whenever they attempt to use it--which,
by the by, is well-nigh all the time--in manipulating the opium needle and pipe. Observing
them from my rude shake-down, after supper, bending persistently over this broken, or ever-breaking
lamp, their sore eyes and shrunken features, the suzzle-suzzle of the opium as they suck it
into the primer and inhale the fumes--the indescribable odor of the drug pervading the room--all
this would seem to be a picture of an ideal Chinese opium den rather than of a chapar-khana
in Persia.

A broken bridge and miles of deep mud not far ahead has been the burthen of information gathered
from the villagers during the afternoon, and the chapar-jee urges upon me the necessity of
employing men and horses to carry me and the bicycle across these obstructions into Nishapoor.
Preferring to take my chances of getting through, however, I pay no heed to these warnings,
well aware that the chapar-jee's interest in the matter begins and ends in the fact that he
has horses to hire himself.

In imitation of my example yesterday, I wander off the proper road again this morning, taking
a road that leads to an abandoned ford instead of to the bridge, a mistake that is probably
a very good one to have made when viewed from the stand-point of mud, as my road is at least
the shorter one of the two.

A wild-looking, busby-decked crowd of Khorassani goatherds from a neighboring village follow
behind me across the level mudflats leading to the stream, vociferously clamoring for me to
ride. They shout persistently: "H-o-i! Sowar shuk; tomasha! tomasha!" even when they see the
difficult task I have of it getting the bicycle through the mud. I have singled out a big,
sturdy goat-herder to assist me across the streams, of which I learn there are two, a mile
or thereabout apart, and his compatriots are accompanying us to see us cross, as well as being
impelled by prying curiosity to see how many kerans he gets for his trouble. The first stream
is found to be arm-pit deep, with a fairly strong current. My sturdy Khorassani crosses over
first, to try the bottom, feeling his way with a long-handled spade; he then returns and carries
the bicycle across on his head, afterward carrying me across astride his shoulders, landing
me safely with nothing worse than wet feet.

A mile of awful saline mud, and stream number two is reached and crossed in a similar manner--although
here I unfortunately cross part way over fairly sitting on the water. The water and the weather
are both uncomfortably chilly, and my assistant emerges from the second stream with chattering
teeth and goose-pimply flesh. A liberal and well-deserved present makes him forget personal
discomforts, and, fervently kissing my hand and pressing my palm to his forehead, he tells
me there is no more water ahead, and, recrossing the stream, he wends his way homeward again.

Fortunately the road improves rapidly, developing beyond the Nishapoor Valley into smooth,
upland camel-trails that afford quite excellent wheeling. The Nishapoor Valley impresses me
as about the finest area of cultivation seen in Persia, except, perhaps, the Tabreez Plain;
and toward Gadamgah the country gets positively beautiful--at least, beautiful in comparison.
Crystal streamlets come purling and gurgling across the road over pebbly beds; and, looking
northward for their source, one finds that the usually gray and uninteresting foot-hills have
changed into bright, green slopes, on whose cheerful brows are seen an occasional pine or cedar.
Overtopping these green, grassy slopes are dark, rugged rocks, and higher still the grim white
region of--winter. Somewhere behind these emerald foot-hills, near Gadamgah, are the famous
turquoise mines alluded to in the "Veiled Prophet of Khorassan." The mines are worked at the
present time, but only in a desultory and unenterprising manner.

Favored with good roads, I succeed in reaching Gadamgah before dark, where, besides a comfortable
and commodious caravanserai, and the pleasure of seeing around a number of fine-spreading cedars,
one can obtain the rare luxury of pine-wood to build a fire.

Immediately upon my arrival a knowing and respectable-looking old pilgrim, who calls himself
a hadji and a dervish from Mazan-deran, rescues me from the annoying importunities of the people
and invites me to share the accommodation of his menzil. Augmenting his scanty stock of firewood
and obtaining eggs and bread, quite a comfortable evening is spent in reclining beside the
blazing pine-wood fire, which is itself no trifling luxury in a country of scanty camel-thorn
and tezek. Whenever the prying curiosity of the occupants of neighboring menzils impels them
to visit our quarters, to stand and stare at me, my friend the hadji waxes indignant, and,
waving a stick of firewood threateningly toward them, he pours forth a torrent of withering
and sarcastic remarks. Once, in his wrath, he hops lightly off the menzil floor, seizes an
individual twice his own size by the kammerbund, jerks him violently forward, bids him stare
until he gets ashamed of staring, and then, turning him round, shoves him unceremoniously away
again, pursuing him as he retreats to his own quarters with vengeful shouts of "y-a-h!"

To a few eminently respectable travellers, however, the hadji graciously accords the coveted
privilege of squatting around our fire and chatting. Being himself a person who dearly loves
the music of his own voice, he holds forth at great length on the subject of himself in particular,
dervishes in general, and the Province of Mazanderaii. Like a good many other people conscious
of their own garrulousness, the hadji evidently suspects his auditors of receiving his statements
with a good deal of allowance; consequently, when impressing upon them the circumstance of
his hailing from Mazanderan--a fact that he seems to think creditable in some way to himself--he
produces from the depths of his capacious saddlebags several dried fish of a variety for which
that province is celebrated, and exhibits them in confirmation of his statements.

It is genuine wintry weather, and with no bedclothes, save a narrow horse-blanket borrowed
from my impromptu friend, I spend a cold, uncomfortable night, for a caravanserai menzil is
but a mere place of shelter after all. The hadji rises early and replenishes the fire, and
with his little brass teapot we make and drink a glass of tea together before starting out.

At daybreak the hadji goes outside to take a preliminary peep at the weather, and returns with
the unwelcome intelligence that it is snowing.

"Better snow than rain," I conclude, as I prepare to start, little thinking that I am entering
upon the toughest day's experience of the whole journey through Persia.

Before covering three miles, the snow-storm develops into a regular blizzard; a furious, driving
storm that would do credit to Dakota. Without gloves, and in summer clothes throughout, I quickly
find myself in a most unenviable plight. It is no common snow-storm; every few minutes a halt
has to be made, hands buffeted and ears rubbed to prevent these members from freezing; yet
foot-gear has to be removed and streams waded in the bitter cold.

The road leads up into a region of broken hills, and the climax of my discomfort is reached,
when the blizzard is raging with ever-increasing fury, and the cold has already slightly nipped
one finger. While attempting to cross a deep, narrow stream without disrobing, it is my unhappy
fate to drop the bicycle into the water, and furthermore to front the necessity of instantly
plunging in, armpit deep, to its rescue. When I emerge upon the opposite bank my situation
is really quite critical; in a few moments my garments are frozen stiff; everything I have
with me is wet; my leathern case, containing the small stock of medicines, matches, writing
material, and other small but necessary articles, is full of water, and, with hands benumbed,
I am unable to unstrap it.

My only salvation consists in vigorous exercise, and, conscious of this, I splurge ahead through
the blinding storm and the fast-deepening snow, fording several other streams, often emerging
dripping from the icy water to struggle through waist-deep snow-drifts that are rapidly accumulating
under the influence of the driving blast and fast-falling snow. Uncertain of the distance to
the next caravanserai, I push determinedly forward in this condition for several hours, making
but slow progress. Everything must come to an end, however, and twenty miles from Gadamgah
the welcome outlines of a road-side caravanserai become visible through the thickly falling
snow-flakes, and the din of many jangling camel-bells proclaims it already occupied.

The caravanserai is found so densely crowded with people, horses, camels, and their loads that
it is impossible to at first carry the bicycle inside. Confusion, and more than confusion,
reigns supreme; every menzil is occupied, and the whole interior space is a confused mass of
charvadars, stoutly vociferating at one another and at the pack-animals lying down, wandering
about, or being unloaded.

Leaving the bicycle outside in the snow, I clamber over the humpy forms of kneeling camels,
through an intricate maze of mules and over barricades of miscellaneous merchandise, and, making
a virtue of dire necessity, invade the menzil of a well-to-do looking traveller. Here, waiving
all considerations of whether my presence is acceptable or the reverse, I take a seat beside
their fire and forthwith proceed to shed my saturated foot-gear. Under ordinary conditions
this proceeding would be nothing less than a piece of sublime assurance; but necessity knows
no law, and my case is really very urgent. When I explain to the occupants of the menzil that
this nolens volens invasion of their premises is but a temporary arrangement, in the flowery
language of polite Persian they tell me that the menzil, the fire, and everything they have
is mine.

After the inevitable examination of my map, compass, and sundry effects, I begin to fancy my
presence something of an embarrassment, and consequently am not a little gratified at hearing
the authoritative voice of my friend the hadji shouting loudly at the charvadars, telling them
that he is a hadji and a Mazanderan dervish, for whom they cannot clear the way too quickly.
Looking round, I see him appear at the caravanserai entrance with a party of pilgrims, in whose
company he has journeyed from Gadamgah. The combined excellences that enter into the composition
of a person who is both a dervish and an ex-Mecca pilgrim are of great benefit in securing
the respect and consideration of the common herd in Persia; and as, in addition to this, our
hadji commands attention by the peculiar tone and volume of his voice when delivering his commands,
his tall, angular steed is quickly tied up in a snug and sheltered corner and his saddle-bags
deposited on the floor of a fellow-pilgrim's menzil.

Hearing of my arrival, he straightway seeks me out and invites me to share the accommodation
of his new-found quarters, not forgetting to explain to the people he finds me with, however,
that he is a hadji, a dervish, and that he hails from Mazanderan. I shouldn't be much surprised
to see him back up the latter assertion by producing a dried fish from the ample folds of his
kammerbund; but these finny witnesses are reserved to perform their role later in the evening.

As the gloom of night envelopes the interior of the caravanserai, and the scores of little
brushwood fires smoke and glimmer and twinkle fitfully, the scene appeals to an observant Occidental
as being decidedly unique, and totally unlike anything to be seen outside of Persia. Around
each little fire, from four to a dozen figures are squatting, each group forming a most social
gathering; some are singing, some chatting pleasantly, some quarrelling and arguing violently;
some are shouting lustily at each other across the whole width of the serai; all are taking
turns at smoking the kalian or sipping tea, or preparing supper. Occasionally a fiery wheel
glows through the darkness, from which fly myriads of sparks, looking very pretty as it describes
rapid circles. This is a. little wire cage, full of live charcoal, that is being swung round
and round like a sling to enliven the coals for priming the kalian. In the middle space, crowded
with animals and their loads, the horses, being all stallions, are constantly squealing and
fighting; camels, are grunting dolefully, donkeys are braying and bells clanging, and grooms
and charvadars are shouting and quarrelling. Taken all in all, the interior of a crowded caravanserai
is a decidedly animated place.

The snow-storm subsides during the night, and a clear, frosty morning breaks upon a wintry
landscape, in which nothing is visible but snow. The hadji announces his intention of "Inshallah
Meshed, am roos" (please God, we will reach Meshed to-day) as he covers up the obtrusive tail
of a fish emerging from one of the saddle-bags and prepares to mount. I give him my packages
to carry, by way of lightening my burden as much as possible for the struggle through the snow,
and promise him a bottle of arrack, upon reaching Meshed, as a reward for thus assisting me
through. Arrack is forbidden fruit to a hadji above all things else, so that nothing I could
promise him would likely prove more tempting or acceptable, or be better appreciated!

It proves slavish work trundling, tugging, and carrying the bicycle through the deep snow along
a half-broken trail made by a few horses, and through deep drifts; but the cold, bracing air
is favorable for exertion, and by ten o'clock we reach Shahriffabad, where a halt is made to
prepare a cup of tea and to give the hadji's horse a feed of barley. At Shahriffabad we are
warned that on the hills between here and Meshed snow will be found two feet deep, streams
belly deep to the hadji's horse will have to be forded, and, toward Meshed, mud knee-deep.
Conscious that the mud will be "knee-deep" the whole distance, after the disappearance of the
snow, this makes us only the more eager to push on while we may.

The sun has by this time become uncomfortably warm, and the narrow trail is fast becoming a
miry pathway of mud and slush under the trampling feet of the animals gone ahead, and of villagers'
donkeys returning from the city. Mile after mile is devoted to the unhappy task of trundling
the bicycle ahead, rear wheel aloft, through mud and slush varying from ankle-deep to worse,
occasionally varying the programme by fording a stream.

Late in the afternoon we arrive at the summit of the hills overlooking the Meshed Plain, and
the hadji points out enthusiastically the golden dome of Imam Biza's sanctuary; the yellow,
glistening goal whose famed sanctity has attracted hosts of pilgrims from all quarters of Central
Asia for ages past. The hills hereabout are of a rocky character, and pious pilgrims have gathered
into little mounds every loose piece of rock, it being customary for each pilgrim to find a
stone and add it to one of these piles upon first viewing the bright golden dome of the holy
city from this commanding spot.

Below the rocky paths of this declivity the snow disappears in favor of slippery mud, and the
hadji's wearied charger slips and slides about, to the imminent danger of its rider's neck;
and all the time the slim Turkoman! steed trembles visibly in terror of the old Mazanderan
dervish's whip and his awful threats. Two miles down the bed of the stream, crossing and recrossing
it a dozen times, often thigh-deep, and we emerge upon the gently sloping area of the Meshed
Plain, with the yellow beacon-light of Meshed glowing in the mellow light of the evening sun
six miles away.

The late storm has been chiefly rain in the lower altitude of the plain, and the day's sunshine
has partially dried the surface, but leaving it slippery and treacherous here and there. After
leaving the bed of the stream the hadji becomes anxious about reaching Meshed before dark,
and advises me to mount and put on the speed.

"Inshallah, Meshed yek saat," he says, and so I mount and bid him follow along behind. By vocal
suasion and a liberal application of his cruel, triple-thonged, raw-hide whip, he urges his
well-nigh staggering animal into a canter, lifting his forefeet clear of the ground seemingly
by the bridle at every jump. Suspicious as to his lank and angular steed's sure-footedness
under the strain, I take the very laudable precaution of keeping as far from him as possible,
not caring to get mixed up in a catastrophe that seems inevitable every time the horse, goaded
by the stinging stimulus of the whip and the threats, makes another jump. Not more than a mile
of the six is covered when I have ample reason for congratulating myself on taking this precaution,
for the horse stumbles, and, being too far gone to recover himself, comes down on his nose,
and the "hadji and Mazanderau dervish" is cutting a most ridiculous figure in the mud. His
tall lambskin hat flies off and lands in a pool of muddy water some distance ahead; the ponderous
saddle-bags, which are merely laid on the saddle, shoot forward athwart the horse's neck, the
horse's nose roots quite a furrow in the road, and the horse's owner picks himself up and takes
a woeful survey of his own figure. It is needless to say that the survey includes a good deal
more real estate than the hadji cares to claim, even though it be the semi-sacred soil of the
Meshed Plain.

The poor horse is altogether too tired to attempt to recover his legs of his own inclination;
but, regarding him as the author of his ignominious misadventure, the hadji surveys him with
a wrathful eye for a moment, mutters a few awful imprecations--imported, no doubt, from Mazanderan--and
then attacks him savagely about the head with the whip. In his wrath and determination to make
a lasting impression of each blow given, the hadji emphasizes each visitation with a very audible
grunt; and, to speak correctly, so does the horse. It goes without saying, however, that master
and animal grunt from widely different motives; although, so far as the mere audible performance
is concerned, one grunt might almost be an echo of the other.

At length, by adopting a more circumspect pace, we reach the gate of the holy city about sunset
without further mishap. The hadji leads the way through a bewildering labyrinth of narrow streets
that consist of an open sewage-ditch in the centre, at present full of filth, and a narrow
footway of rough, broken, and mud-bespattered cobble-stones on either side. Of course we are
followed through these fearful thoroughfares by a surging and vociferous crowd of people such
as a Central Asian city alone can produce; but I can this time happily afford to smile at these
usually irritating accompaniments to my arrival in a populous city, for ten minutes after entering
the gate finds me shaking hands with Mr. Gray, the genial telegraphist of the Afghan Boundary
Commission. With a well-guarded gate between our cosey quarters and the shouting mob outside,
the evening is spent very pleasantly and quietly, in striking comparison with what it would
have been had no one been here to afford me a place of refuge.

Meshed is "the jumping off place" of telegraphy; the electric spider spins his galvanized web
no farther in this direction, and the dirge-like music of civilization's--AEolian harp, that,
like the roll of England's drum, is heard around the world, approaches the barbarous territory
of Afghanistan from two directions, but recoils from entering that fanatical and conservative
domain. It approaches from Persia on the one side, and from India on the other; but as yet
it only approaches. The drum has already been there; it is only a question of time when the
AEolian harp will follow.

It is with lively recollection of Khorassani March weather and the experience of the last few
days that, after a warm bath, I array myself in a suit of Mr. Gray's clothing, elevate my slippered
feet, "Yenghi Donia fashion," on a pile of Turcoman! carpets, and, abetted by the cheering
presence of a bottle of Shiraz wine, exchange my recent experiences on the road for telegraphic
scraps of the latest news. How utterly unsatisfactory and altogether wretched seems even the
gilded palace of a Persian provincial governor--the meaningless compliments, the salaaming
lackeys and empty show of courtesy, when compared with the cosey quarters, the hearty welcome,
the honest ring of an Englishman's voice, and the genuineness of everything!

Shortly after my arrival, a gentleman with a coal-black complexion, a retreating forehead,
and an overshadowing wealth of lip appears at the door bearing a tray of sweetmeats. Making
a profound salaam, he steps out of his slipper-like shoes, enters, and places the sweetmeats
on the table, smiling a broad expectant-of-backsheesh smile the while he explains his mission.

"The Sartiep has sent you his salaams and a present of sweetmeats, preparatory to calling round
himself," explains mine host; "he is a Persian gentleman, Ali Akbar Khan, at the head of the
Meshed telegraph-service, and has the rank of general or Sartiep." The Sartiep himself arrives
shortly afterward, accompanied by his favorite son, a budding youth of some eight or ten summers,
of whose beauty he feels very justly proud. The Sartiep's son is one of those remarkably handsome
boys met with occasionally in modern Persia, and which so profusely adorn old Persian paintings.
With soft, girlish features, big, black, lustrous eyes, and an abundance of long hair, they
remind one of the beautiful youths of Oriental romance; his fond parent takes him about on
his visits and finds much gratification in the admiring remarks bestowed upon the son.

The Sartiep is an ideal Persian official, courteous and complimentary, but never forgetful
of Ali Akbar Khan; his full, round figure and sensual Oriental face speak eloquently of mutton
pillau and other fattening dishes galore, sweetmeats, cucumbers, and melons; and deep draughts
from pleasure's intoxicating cup have not failed to leave their indelible marks. In this particular
the Sartiep is but a casually selected sample of the well-to-do Persian official. Leaving out
a few notable exceptions, this brief description of him suffices to describe them all.

Following in the train of the Sartiep arrive more servants, bearing dishes of kabobs, herb-seasoned
pillau, and various other strange, savory dishes, which, Mr. Gray explains, are considered
great delicacies among the upper-class Persians and are intended as a great compliment to me.

Although Mohammedans, and particularly Shiite Mohammedans, are forbidden by their religion
to indulge in alcoholic beverages, the average high official in Persia is anything but a sanctimonious
individual, and partakes with a keen relish of the forbidden fruit in an open-secret manner.
The thin, transparent veil of abstemiousness that the Persian noble wears in deference to the
sanctimonious pretensions of the mollahs and seyuds and the public eye at large, is cast aside
altogether in the presence of intimate friends, and particularly if that intimate friend is
a Ferenghi. Owing to their association in the telegraph-service, mine host and the Sartiep
are on the most intimate terms.  The Sartiep soon after his arrival intimates, with a humorous
twinkle of the eye, that he feels the need of a little medicine. Mr. Gray, as becomes a good
physician who knows well the constitutional requirements of his patient, and who knows what
to prescribe without even going through the preliminary act of feeling the pulse, produces
a pale-green bottle and a tumbler and pours out a full dose of its contents for an adult.

The patient swallows it at a gulp, nibbles a piece of sweetmeat, and strokes his stomach in
token of approval.

"What was the medicine you prescribed, Gray?" "High wines," says the physician, "95 proof alcohol;
a bottle that the entomologist of the Boundary Commission happened to leave here a year ago;
it was the only thing in the house except wine. The patient pronounces it the 'best arrack'
he ever tasted; the firier these fellows can get it the better they like it."

"Why, it didn't even make him gasp!"

"Gasp--nonsense; you haven't been in Persia as long as I have yet, or you wouldn't say 'gasp'
even at 95% alcohol."

But how polite, how complimentary, these French of Asia are, and how imaginative and fanciful
their language! Not having shaved since leaving Teheran, after surveying myself in the glass,
I feel called upon, in the interest of fellow-wheelmen elsewhere, to explain to our discerning
visitors that all bicyclers are not distinguished from their fellow men by a bronzed and stubby
phiz and an all-around vagrom appearance.

The Sartiep strokes his beard and stomach, casts a lingering glance at the above-mentioned
green-glass bottle, smiles, and replies: "Having accomplished so wonderful a journey, you are
now prettier with your rough, unshaven face than you ever were before; you can now survey yourself
in the looking-glass of fame instead of in a common mirror that reflects all the imperfections
of ordinary mortals." Having delivered himself of this compliment, the Sartiep's eye wanders
in the direction of the 95% alcohol again, and the next minute is again smacking his lips and
complacently stroking his stomach.

In the morning, before I am up, a servant arrives from a Mesh-edi notable named Hadji Mahdi,
bringing salaams from his master, and a letter clothed in the fine "apparel diplomatique" of
the Orient. The letter, although in reality nothing more than a request to be allowed to come
and see the bicycle, reads in substance as follows: "Salaams from Hadji Mahdi--may he be your
sacrifice!-to Gray Sahib and the illustrious Sahib who has arrived in Holy Meshed from Teheran,
on the wonderful asp-i-awhan, the fame of whose deeds reaches to the ends of the earth. Bismillah!
May your shadows never grow less! Your sacrifice's brother, Hadji Mollah Hassan, whose eyes
were gladdened by a sight of the asp-i-awhan Sahib at Shahrood, and who now sends his salaams,
telegraphs me--his unworthy brother--that upon the Sahib's arrival in Meshed I should render
him any assistance he might need. Inshallah, with your permission--may it not be withheld--your
sacrifice will be pleased to call and gladden his eyes with a sight of Gray Sahib and the illustrious
Sahib his guest."

As might have been expected, the advent of a Ferenghi on so strange a vehicle as a bicycle,
arriving in the sacred city of Imam Eiza's sanctuary, arouses universal curiosity; and not
only the Sartiep and Hadji Mahdi, but hundreds of big-turbaned Meshedi notables, mollahs, and
seyuds are admitted during the day to enjoy the happy privilege of feasting their eyes on the
latest proof of the Ferenghis' wonderful marifet,

Upon receipt of the telegram at Shahrood refusing me permission to go through Turkestan, I
telegraphed to Mr. Gray, requesting him to obtain leave for me to go to the Boundary Commission
Camp, and accompany them back to India, or reach India from the camp alone. Mr. Gray kindly
forwarded my request to the camp, and now urges me to consider myself his guest until the return
courier arrives with the answer. This turns out to mean a stop-over of seven days, and on the
second day immense crowds of people assemble in the street, shouting for me to come out and
ride the bicycle. The clamor on the streets renders it impossible for them to transact business
in the telegraph office, and several times requests are sent in begging me to appease them
and stop the uproar by riding to and fro along the street. An outer door separates the compound
in which the house is built from the street, and to prevent the rabble from invading the premises,
and the possibility of unpleasant consequences, the Governor-General stations a guard of four
soldiers at the door. This precaution works very well so far as the common herd are concerned,
but every hour through the day little knots of priestly men in the flowing new garments and
spotless turbans representing their Noo Roos purchases, or the lamb's-wool cylinder and semi-European
garb of the official, bribe, coerce, or command the guard to let them in.

These persistent people generally stand in a respectful attitude just inside the outer gate,
and send word in by a servant that a Shahzedah (relative of the Shah) wishes to see the bicycle.
After the first "Shahzedah" has been treated with courtesy and consideration in deference to
his royal relative at Teheran, fully two-thirds of those who come after unblushingly proclaim
themselves uncles, cousins, or nephews of "His Majesty, the King of Kings and Ruler of the
Universe!" The constant worry and annoyance of these people compel us to adopt measures of
self-defence, and so, after admitting about a hundred uncles, twice that number of nephews,
and Heaven knows how many cousins, we conclude that blood-relations of the Shah are altogether
too numerous in Meshed to be of much consequence. Soon after arriving at this conclusion, Mr.
Gray's farrash, an Armenian he brought with him from Ispahan, comes in with a message that
another Shahzedah has succeeded in getting past the guard and sends in his salaams. "Shahzedah
be d----d! Turn him out--put him outside, and tell the guards to let nobody else in without
our permission!"

A moment later the farrash re-enters with the look of a man scarcely able to control his risibilities,
and says the man and his friends are still inside the gate.

"Why the devil don't you put them out, as you are told, then?"

"He says he is the Padishah's step-father."

"Well, what if he is the Padishah's step-father? It's nothing to be the Shah's step-father;
the Shah probably has five hundred step-father's, to say the least--turn him out. No; hold
hard; let him stay."

We conclude that a step-father to the king, whether genuine or only a counterfeit, is at least
something of a relief after the swarms of nephews, cousins, and uncles, and so order him to
be shown in He proves to be a corpulent little man about sixty, who advances up the bricked
walk toward us, making about three extra profound salaams to the rod and smiling in a curious,
apprehensive manner, as though not quite assured of his reception. About a dozen long-robed
mollahs and seyuds follow with timid hesitancy in his wake. Strange to say, he makes no allusion
to his illustrious step-son, the King of Kings at Teheran; and plainly betrays embarrassment
when Gray mentions the fact of my having appeared before him on the wheel. We conclude that
the Shah's step-father and the little group of holy men clubbed together and paid the Persian
guard about a keran to let them in, and perhaps another half-keran to the Armenian farrash
for not summarily turning them out. He tries very hard, however, to make himself agreeable,
and when told about the Russians refusing me the road, exclaims artfully: "I was not an enemy
of the Russians before I heard this, but now I am their worst enemy! Suppose the Sahib's iron
horse was a wheel of fire, what harm would it do their country even then?"

Our most distinguished caller to-day is Mirza Abbas Khan, C. I. E., a Kandahari gentleman,
who has been the British political agent at Meshed for many years. He makes a formal call in
all the glory of his official garments, a magnificent Cashmere coat lined with Russian sable
and profusely trimmed with gold braid; a servant leads his gayly caparisoned horse, and another
brings up the rear with a richly mounted kalian.

Appearances count for something among the people of Northeastern Persia, and Abbas Khan draws
a sufficiently large salary to enable him to wear gorgeous clothes, and thereby dim the lustre
of his bitter rival, the political agent of Russia.

Abbas Khan is perhaps the handsomest man in Meshed, is in the prime of life, dyes his flowing
beard an orthodox red, and possesses most charming manners; in addition to his ample salary
he owns the revenue of a village near Meshed, and seems to be altogether the right man in the
right place.

Abbas Khan and a friend of his from Herat both agree that the difficulties and dangers of Afghanistan
will be likely to prove insurmountable; at the same time promising any assistance they can
render me in getting to India, consistent, of course, with Abbas Khan's duties as British Agent.
It seems to be a pretty general opinion that Afghanistan will prove a stumbling-block in my
path; friends at Teheran telegraph again, advising me to go anywhere rather than risk the dangers
to be apprehended in that most lawless and fanatical territory. Nothing can be decided on,
however, until the arrival of an answer from the Commission.

In the meantime, the days slowly pass away in Meshed; every day come scores of visitors and
invitations to go and ride for the delectation of sundry high officials; ever-present are the
crowds in the streets shouting, "Tomasha! tomasha! Sowar shuk!" and the frequent squabbles
at the gate between the guard and the people wanting to come in.

Above the din and clamor of the crowd outside there sometimes arise the chanting voices of
a party of newly arrived pilgrims making their way joyously through the thronged streets toward
the gold-domed sanctuary of Imam Riza, the tomb being situated a couple of hundred yards down
the street from our quarters. Sometimes we hear parties of men uttering strange cries and sounding
aloud the praises of Imam Riza, Houssein, Hassan, and other worthies of the Mohammedan world,
in response to which are heard the swelling voices of a multitude of people shouting in chorus,
"Allah be praised! Allah be praised!!" These weird chanters are dervishes, who, with tiger-skin
mantles drawn carelessly about them, clubs or battle-axes on shoulder, their long unkempt hair
dangling down their backs, look wildly grotesque as they parade the streets of the Persian Mecca.

Meshed is a strange city for a Ferenghi to live in; every day are heard the chanting and singing
of newly arriving bands of pilgrims, the strange, wild utterances of dervishes preaching on
the streets, and the shouting responses of their auditors. Conspicuous above everything else
in the city, as gold is conspicuous from dross, is the golden dome and gold-tipped minarets
of the holy edifice that imparts to the city its sacred character. The gold is in thin plates
covering the hemispherical roof like sheets of tin; like most Eastern things, its appearance
is more impressive from a distance than at close quarters. Grains of barley deposited on the
roof by pigeons have sprouted and grown in rank bunches between the thin gold plates, many
of which are partially loose, imparting to the place an air of neglect and decay. By resting
their feet on the dome of this sacred edifice, the pigeons of Meshed have themselves become
objects of veneration; shooting them is strictly prohibited, and a mob would soon be about
the ears of anyone venturing to do them harm.

The two most important persons in Meshed are the acting Governor-General of Khorassan, and
Mardan Khan, Ex-Governor of Sarakhs and Hereditary Chief of the powerful tribe of Timurees.
Of course, the Governor sends his salaams, and invites me to come round to the government konak
and favor him with an exhibition. Since our refusal to entertain any more of the "Shah's relations,"
we find that the worthy and long-suffering Abbas Khan has been worried almost to the verge
of despair by requests from all over the city begging the privilege of seeing me ride.

"Knowing that you have been worried in the same way yourselves," says Abbas Kahu, "I have replied
to them, 'Is the Sahib a giraffe and I his keeper? Why, then, do you come to me? The Sahib
has travelled a long way, and is stopping here to rest, not to make an exhibition of himself."

An exception is of course made in favor of the Governor-General and Mardan Khan. The Government
compound is a large enclosure, and to reach the Governor-General's quarters one has to traverse
numerous long court-yards connected with one another by long, gloomy passage-ways of brick,
where the tramping of the sentinels and the march of retiring and relieving guards resound
through the vaults like an echo of mediaeval times.

There is nothing particularly interesting about the Governor's apartments, but Mardan Khan's
palace is a revelation of barbaric splendor entirely different from anything hitherto seen
in the country. In contradistinction to the dazzling, silvery glitter of the mirror-work and
stuccoed halls of the Teheran palaces, the home of the wealthy Timuree Chieftain is distinguished
by a striking and lavish display of colored glass, gilt, and tinsel.

Mardan Khan is a valued friend of Mirza Abbas Khan and a man of powerful influence; besides
this, he is a pronounced admirer of the Ingilis as against the Oroos, and my reception at his
palace almost takes the character of an ovation. News of the great tomasha has evidently been
widely spread, crowds of outsiders fill the streets leading to the palace, and inside the large
garden are scores of the elite of the city, mollahs, seyuds, official and private gentlemen;
the numerous niches of the walls are occupied by groups of closely veiled females. Trundling
through this interesting and expectant crowd with Abbas Khan, Mardan Khan issues forth in flowing
gown of richest Cashmere-shawl material and gold braid, to greet us and to take a preliminary
peep at the bicycle, and to lead the way into his gorgeously colored room of state.

The scene in this room is an ideal picture of the popular occidental conception of the "gorgeous
East." Abbas Khan and Mar-dan Khan sit cross-legged side by side on a rich Turcoman rug, salaaming
and exchanging compliments after the customary flowery and extravagant language of the Persian
nobility. The marvellous pattern and costly texture of Abbas Khan's coat, the gold braid, the
Russian sable lining, and the black Astrakhan cylinder he wears, are precisely matched by the
garments of Mardan Khan. Twenty or thirty of the most important dignitaries and mollahs of
the city are ranged according to their respective rank or degree of holiness around the room;
prominent among them is the Chief Imam of Meshed, a very important and influential person in
the holy city.

The Chief Imam is a slim-built, sharp-looking individual of about forty summers, with a face
pale, refined, and intellectual; hands white and slender as a lady's, and a foot equally shapely
and feminine. He wears a monster green turban, takes his turn regularly at the kalian, and
passes it on to the next with the easy gracefulness that comes of good breeding; and by his
manners and appearance he creates an impression of being a person rather superior to his surroundings.

Liveried pages pass around little glasses of tea, kalians, cigarettes, and sweetmeats, as well
as tiny bottles of lemon-juice and rose-water, a few drops of these two last-named articles
being used by some of the guests to impart a fanciful flavor to their tea. Now and then a new
guest arrives, steps out of his shoes in the hallway, salaams, and takes his proper position
among the people already here. Everybody sits on the carpet except me, for whom a three-legged
camp-stool has been thoughtfully provided.

Finally, all the guests having arrived, I ride several times around the brick-walks, the strange
audience of turbaned priests and veiled women showing their great approval in murmuring undertones
of "kylie khoob" and involuntary acclamations of "Mashallah! mash-all-ah!" as they witness
with bated breath the strange and incomprehensible scene of a Ferenghi riding a vehicle, that
will not stand alone.

Altogether, the great tomasha at Mardan Khan's is a decided success. Scarcely can this be said,
however, of the "little tomasha" given to the members of Abbas Khan's own family on the way
home. Abbas Khan's compound is very small, and the brick-walks very rough and broken; therefore,
it is hardly surprising to me, though probably somewhat surprising to him, when, in turning
a corner I execute an undignified header into a bunch of busbies.

The third day after my arrival in Meshed, I received a telegram from the British Charge d'Affaires
at Teheran saying: "You must not attempt to cross the frontier of Afghanistan at any point."
Two days later the expected courier arrives from the Boundary Commission Camp with a letter
saying: "It is useless for you to raise the question of coming to the Commission Camp. In the
first place, the Afghans would never allow you to come here; and if you should happen to reach
here, you would never be able to get away again."

These two very encouraging missives from our own people seem at first thought more heartless
than even the "permission refused" of the Russians. It occurs to me that this "you must not
attempt to cross the Afghan frontier" might just as easily have been told me at the Legation
at Teheran as when I had travelled six hundred miles to get to it; but the ways of diplomacy
are past the comprehension of ordinary mortals.

What, after all, are the ambitions and enterprises of an individual, compared to the will and
policy of an empire? No matter whether the empire be semi-civilized and despotic, or free and
enlightened, the obscure and struggling individual is usually rated 0000.

Russia--"permission refused." England--paternally--"must not attempt;" cold, offish language
this for a lone cycler to be confronted with away up here in the northeast corner of Persia,
from representatives of the two greatest empires of the world. What is to be done?

Mr. Gray, returning from the telegraph office later in the evening, finds me endeavoring to
unravel the Gordian knot of the situation through the medium of a brown-study. My geographical
ruminations have already resulted in a conviction that there is no possible way to unravel
it and reach India with a bicycle; my only chance of doing so is to cut it and abide by the
consequences.

"I have just been communicating with Teheran," says Mr. Gray. "Everybody wants to know what
you propose doing."

"Tell them I am going down to Beerjand to consult with Heshmet-i-Molk, the Ameer of Seistan,
and see if it is possible to get through to Quetta via Beerjand."

"Ever hear of Dadur?" queries Mr. Gray. "Ever hear of Dadur, the place of which the Persians
tritely say: 'Seeing that there is Dadur, why did Allah, then, make the infernal regions?'
That is somewhere in Beloochistan. You'll find yourself slowly broiling to death on a geographical
gridiron if you attempt to reach India down that way."

"Never mind; tell them at Teheran I am going that way anyhow."

Having entered upon this decision, I bid my genial host farewell on April 7th, and mounting
at the door, depart in the presence of a well-behaved crowd of spectators. In my pocket is
a general letter from the Governor-General of Khorassan to subordinate officials of the province,
ordering them to render me any assistance I may require, and another from a prominent person
in Meshed to his friend Heshmet-i-Molk, the Ameer of Kain and Governor of Seistan, a powerful
and influential chief, with his seat of government at Beerjand.

Couched in the sentimental language of the country, one of these letters concludes with the
touching remark: "The Sahib, of his own choice is travelling like a dervish, with no protection
but the protection of Allah."

It is a fine bracing morning as I leave the Mecca of Khorassan behind, and the paths leading
round outside the walls and moat of the city from gate to gate afford excellent wheeling. The
Beerjand trail branches off from the Teheran and Meshed road about a farsakh east of Shahriffabad;
for this distance I shall be retraversing the road by which I came, and shall be confronted
at every turn of my wheel by reminiscences of dried fish, a Mazanderau dervish, and an angular
steed.

The streams that under the influence of the storm ran thigh-deep have now dwindled to mere
rivulets, and the narrow, miry trail through the melting snow has become dry and smooth enough
to ride wherever the grade permits. The hills are verdant with the green young life of early
spring, and are clothed in one of nature's prettiest costumes--a costume of seal-brown rocks
and green turf studded with a profusion of blue and yellow flowers.

Shahriffabad is reached early in the afternoon, and the threatening aspect of the changed weather
forbids going any farther today.

Shortly after taking up my quarters in the chapar-khana, a party of Persian travellers appear
upon the scene, and with them a fussy little man in big round spectacles and semi-European
clothes. Scarcely have they had time to alight and seek out quarters than the little man makes
his appearance at my menzil door in all the glory of a crimson velvet dressing-cap and blue
slippers, and beaming gladsomely through his moon-like spectacles, he comes forward and without
further ceremony shakes hands. "Some queer little French professor, geologist, entomologist,
or something, wandering about the country in search of scientific knowledge," is the instinctive
conclusion I arrive at the moment he appears; and my greeting of "bonjour, monsieur," is quite
as involuntary as the conclusion.

"Paruski ni?" he replies, arching his eyebrows and smiling.

"Paruski ni; Ingilis."

"Parsee namifami?"

"Parsee kam-kam."

In this brief interchange of words in the vernacular of the country we define at once each
other's nationality and linguistic abilities. He is a Russian and can speak a little Persian.
It is difficult, however, to believe him anything else than a little French professor, wise
above his generation and skin-full of occult wisdom in some particular branch of science; but
then the big round spectacles, the red dressing-cap, and the cerulean leather slippers of themselves
impart an air of owlish and preternatural wisdom.

Six times during the afternoon he bounces into my quarters and shakes hands, and six times
shakes hands and bounces out again. Every time he renews his visit he introduces one or more
natives, who take as much interest in the hand-shaking as they do in the bicycle. Evidently
his object in coming round so frequently is to exhibit for the gratification of his own vanity
and the curiosity of the Persians, this European mode of greeting, and the profound depth of
his own knowledge of the subject.

Later in the evening the women of the village come round in a body to see the Ferenghi and
his iron horse, and the wearer of the spectacles, the red cap, and blue slippers, takes upon
himself the office of showman for the occasion; pointing out, with a good deal of superficial
enthusiasm, the peculiar points of both steed and rider.

Particularly is it impressed upon these woefully ignorant fail-ones, that the bicycle is not
a horse, but a machine--a thing of iron and not of flesh and blood.

The fair ones nod their heads approvingly, but it is painfully apparent that they don't comprehend
in the least, how, since it is an asp-i-awhan, it can be anything else but a horse, regardless
of the material entering into its composition.

When supper-time arrives the chapar-Jee announces his willingness to turn cook and prepare
anything I order. Knowing well enough that this seemingly sweeping proposition embraces but
two or three articles, I order him to prepare scrambled eggs, bread, and sheerah. An hour later
he brings in the scrambled eggs, swimming in hot molasses and grease! He has stirred the grease
and molasses together, and in this outlandish mixture cooked the eggs.

Off the main road the country assumes the character of low hills of red clay, across which
it would be extremely difficult to take the bicycle in wet weather, but which is now fortunately
dry. After three or four farsakhs it develops into a curious region of heterogeneous parts;
rocky, precipitous mountains, barren, salt-streaked hills, saline streams, and pretty little
green valleys. Here, one feels the absence of any plain, well-travelled road, the dim and ill-defined
trail being at times very difficult to distinguish from the branch trails leading to some isolated
village. The few people one meets already betray a simplicity and a lack of "gumption" that
distinguish them at once from the people frequenting the main road.

CHAPTER VI.

THE UNBEATEN TRACKS OF KHORASSAN.

During the afternoon I traverse a rocky canon, crossing and recrossing a clear, cold stream
that winds its serpentine course from one precipitous wall to another. Mountain trout are observed
disporting in this stream, and big, gray lizards scuttle nimbly about among the loose rocks
on the bank. The canon gradually dwindles into a less confined passage between sloping hills
of loose rock and bowlders, a wild, desolate region through which the road leads gradually
upward to a pass.

Part way up this gorge is a rude stone tower about twenty feet high, on the summit of which
is perched a little mud hut, looking almost as though it might be a sentry-box. While yet a
couple of hundred yards away, a rough-looking customer emerges from the tower and appears to
be awaiting my approach. His head is well-nigh hidden beneath a huge Khorassani busby, and
he wears the clothes of an irregular soldier. The long, shaggy wool of the sheepskin head-dress
dangling over his eyes imparts a very ferocious appearance, and he is armed with the ordinary
Persian sword and one of those antiquated flint-lock muskets that are only to be seen on the
deserts of the East or in museums of ancient weapons.

Taken all in all, he presents a very ferocious front; he is, in fact, about the most ruffianly-looking
specimen I have seen outside of Asiatic Turkey. As I ride up he motions for me to alight, at
the same time retreating a few steps toward his humble stronghold, betraying a spirit of apprehension
lest, perchance, he might be unwittingly standing in the way of danger. Greeting him with the
customary "Salaam aleykum" and being similarly greeted in reply, I dismount to ascertain who
and what he is. He retreats another step or two in the direction of his strange abode, and
eyes the bicycle with evident distrust, edging off to one side as I turn toward him, as though
fearful lest it might come whizzing into his sacred person at a moment's notice like a hungry
buzz-saw. In response to my inquiries, he points up toward the pass and offers to accompany
me thither for the small sum of "yek keran;" giving me to understand that without his presence
it is highly indiscreet to proceed.

Little penetration is required to understand that this is one of the little black-mailing schemes
peculiar to semi-civilization, and which, it is perhaps hardly necessary to explain, comes
a trifle too late in the chapter of my Asiatic experiences to influence my movements or to
replenish the exchequer of the picturesque and enterprising person desirous of shielding me
from imaginary harm.

This wily individual is making his living by the novel and ingenious process of trading on
the fears and credulity of stray travellers, making them believe the pass is dangerous and
charging them a small sum for his services as guard. It is not at all unlikely that he is the
present incumbent of an hereditary right to extort blackmail from such travellers along this
lonely road as may be prevailed upon without resorting to violence to pay it, and is but humbly
following in the footsteps of his worthy sire and still more worthy grandsire.

The pass ahead is neither very steep nor difficult, and the summit once crossed, and the first
few hundred yards of rough and abrupt declivity overcome, I am able to mount and wheel swiftly
down long gradients of smooth, hard gravel for four or five miles, alighting at the walled
village of Assababad in the presence of its entire population.

Some keen-sighted villager has observed afar off the strange apparition gliding swiftly down
the open gravel slopes, and the excited population have all rushed out in breathless expectancy
to try and make out its character. The villagers of Assababad are simple-hearted people, and
both men and women clap their hands like delighted children to have so rare a novelty suddenly
appear upon the scene of their usually humdrum and uneventful lives. Quilts are spread for
me on the sunny side of the village wall, and they gather eagerly around to feast to the full
their unaccustomed eyes. A couple of the men round up a matronly goat and exact from her the
tribute of a bowl of milk; others contribute bread, and the frugal repast is seasoned with
the unconcealed delight of my hospitable audience.

They are not overly clean in their habits, though, these rude and isolated people; and to keep
off prying housewives, bent on satisfying their curiosity regarding the texture of my clothing
and the comparative whiteness of my skin, I am compelled to adopt the defensive measure of
counter curiosity. The signal and instantaneous success of this plan, resulting in the hasty,
scrambling retreat of the women, is greeted with boisterous merriment, by the entire crowd.

I have about made up my mind to remain over-night with the hospitable people of Assababad;
but at the solicitation of a Persian traveller who comes along, I conclude to accompany him
to a building observable in the distance ahead which he explains is a small but comfortable
serai. The good villagers seem very loath to let me, go so soon, and one young man kneels down
and kisses my dusty geivehs and begs me to take him with me to Hindostan--strange, unsophisticated
people; how simple-hearted, how childlike they seem!

The caravanserai is but a couple of miles ahead, but it is situated in the dip of an extensive,
basin-like depression between two mountain ranges, and the last half mile consists of mud and
water eighteen inches deep. The caravanserai itself stands on a slight elevation, and is found
occupied by a couple of families, who make the place their permanent abode and gain a livelihood
by supplying food, firewood, and horse-feed to travellers.

Upon our arrival, a woman makes her appearance and announces her willingness to cater to our wants.

"Noon ass?"

"Yes, plenty of bread."

"Toke-me-morge neis f"

"Neis; loke-me-morge-neis."

"Sheerah ass?"

"Sheerah neis."

"What have you then besides bread?"

For answer the woman points to a few beruffled chickens scratching for grains of barley among
a heap of rubbish that has evidently been exploited by them times without number before, and
says she can sell us chickens at one keran apiece.

Seeing the absence of anything else, I order her forthwith to capture one for me, and the Persian
gentleman orders another. The woman sets three youngsters and a yellow, tailless dog to run
down the chickens, and in a few minutes presents herself before us, holding in each hand the
plucked and scrawny carcass of a fowl that has had to scratch hard and persistently for its
life for heaven knows how many years. One of the chickens is considerably larger than the other,
and I tell the Persian gentleman to take his choice, thinking that with himself and his two
servants he would be glad to accept the larger fowl. On the contrary, however, he fixes his
choice on the smaller one.

Touched by what appears to be a simple act of unselfishness, I endeavor to persuade him to
take the other, pointing out that he has three mouths to fill while I have only one. My importunities
are, however, wasted on so polite and disinterested a person, and so I reluctantly take possession
of the bulkier fowl.

The Persian's servant dissects his master's purchase and stows it away for future use, the
three making their supper off bread and a mixture of grease, chopped onions and sheerah from
the larder of their saddle-bags. The woman readily accepts the offer of an additional half
keran for relieving me of the onerous task of cooking my own supper, and takes her departure,
promising to cook it as quickly as possible.

Happy in the contemplation of a whole chicken for supper, I sit around and chat and drink tea
with my disinterested friend for the space of an hour. To a hungry person an hour seems an
ominously long period of time in which to cook a chicken, and, becoming impatient, the Persian
gentleman's servant volunteers to go inside and investigate. I fancy detecting a shadow of
amusement passing over the face of the gentleman as his servant departs, and when he returns
with the intelligence that the chicken won't be tender enough to eat for another hour, his
risibilities get the better of his politeness and he gives way to uncontrollable laughter.
Then it is that a gleam of enlightenment steals over my unsuspecting soul and tells me why
my guileless fellow-traveller so politely and yet so firmly selected the smallest of the fowls--he
is a better judge of Persian "morges" than I. The woman finally turns up, bringing the result
of her two hours' culinary perseverance in a large pewter bowl; she has cut the chicken up
into several pieces and has been industriously keeping the pot boiling from the beginning.
The result of this laudable effort is meat of gutta-percha toughness, upon which one's teeth
are exercised in vain; but I make a very good supper after all by breaking bread into the broth.
I don't know but that the patriarchal ruler of the roost makes at least the richer broth.

Thin ice covers the water when I leave this caravanserai in the gray of the morning, and the
Persian travellers, who nearly always start before daybreak, have already departed. Stories
were heard yesterday evening of streams between here and the southern chain of mountains, deep
and difficult to cross; and I pull out fully expecting to have to strip and do some disagreeable
work in the water. Considerable mud is encountered, and three small streams, not over three
feet deep, are crossed; but further on I am brought to a stand by a deep, sluggish stream flowing
along ten feet below the level of the ground. Though deep, it is very narrow in places, and
might almost be described as a yawning crack in the earth, filled with water to within ten
feet of the top.

A little way up stream is a spot fordable for horses, and, of course, fordable also for a cycler;
but the prevailing mud and the chilliness of the morning combine to influence me to try another
plan. A happy plan it seems at the moment, a credit to my inventive genius, and spiced with
the seductive condiment of novelty, the stream is sufficiently narrow at one place to be overcome
with a running jump; but people cannot take running jumps encumbered with a bicycle. The bicycle,
however, can quickly and easily be taken into several parts and thrown across, the jump made,
and the wheel put together again.

Packages, pedals, and backbone with rear wheel are tossed successfully across, but the big
wheel attached to fork and handle-bar, unfortunately rolls back and disappears with a splash
beneath the water. The details of the unhappy task of recovering this all-important piece of
property--how I have to call into requisition for the first time the small, strong rope I have
carried from Constantinople--how, in the absence of anything in the shape of a stick, in all
the unproductive country around, I have to persuade my unwilling and goose-pimpled frame into
the water and duck my devoted head beneath the waves several times before succeeding in passing
a slip-noose over the handle--is too harrowing a tale to tell; it makes me shiver and shrink
within myself, even as I write.

Beyond the stream the road approaches the southern framework of the plain with a barely discernible
rise, and dry, hard, paths afford fair wheeling. Looking back one can see the white, uneven
crest of the Elburz Range peeping over the lesser chain of hills crossed over yesterday, showing
wondrously sharp and clear in the transparent atmosphere of a more or less desert country.

A region of red-clay hills and innumerable little streams ends my riding for the present, and
the road eventually leads into a cul-de-sac, the source of the little streams and the home
of spongy morasses whose deceptive mossy surface may or may not bear one's weight. Bound about
the cul-de-sac is a curious jumble of rocks and red-clay heights; the strata of the former
inclining to the perpendicular and sometimes rising like parallel walls above the earth, reminding
one of the "Devil's Slide" in Weber Canon, Utah. A stiff pass leads over the brow of the range,
and on the summit is perched another little stone tower; but no valiant champion of defenceless
wayfarers issues forth to proffer his protection here--perhaps our acquaintance of yesterday
comes down here when he wants a change of air.

From the pass the descent is into a picturesque region of huge rocks and splendid streams that
come bubbling out from among them, and farther along is a more open space, a few fields of
grain, and the little hamlet of Kahmeh. Stopping here an hour for refreshments, the country
again becomes rough and hilly for several miles; the road then descends a rocky slope to the
plain, where a few miles ahead can be seen the crenelated walls and suburban orchards and villages
of Torbet-i-Haiderie.

Remembering my letter from the Governor-General to subordinate officials, I permit a uniformed
horseman, who seems anxious to make himself useful in the premises, to pilot me into the city,
telling him to lead the way to the Mustapha's office. Guiding me through the narrow, crowded
streets into the still more crowded bazaar, he descants, from his commanding position in the
saddle, to the listening crowd, on the marvellous nature of my steed and the miraculous ability
required to ride it as he had seen me riding it outside the walls. Having accomplished his
vain purpose of attracting public attention to himself through me, and by his utterances aroused
the popular curiosity to an ungovernable pitch, he rides off and leaves me to extricate myself
and find the Mustapha as best I can.

The ignorant, inconsiderate mob at once commence shouting for me to ride. "Sowar shuk; sowar
shuk! tomasha; tomasha!" a thousand people cry in the stuffy, ill-paved bazaar as they struggle
and push and surge about me, giving me barely room to squeeze through them. When it is discovered
that I am seeking the Mustapha, there is a great rush of the crowd to reach the municipal compound
and gain admittance, lest perchance the gates should be closed after I had entered and a tomasha
be given without them seeing.

Following along with the crowd, the compound is reached and found to be jammed so tightly with
people that the greatest difficulty is experienced in forcing my way through them to the Mustapha's
quarters. Nobody seems to take a particle of interest in the matter, save to lend their voices
to help swell the volume of the cry for me to ride; nobody in all the tumultuous mob seems
capable of the simple reflection that there is no room whatever to ride, not so much as a yard
of space unoccupied by human beings. They might with equal propriety be shouting for a fish
to swim without providing him with water.

The Mustapha is found seated on the raised floor of his open-fronted office, examining, between
whiffs of the kalian, papers brought to him by his subordinates, and I hand him my general
letter of recommendation. Taking a cursory glance at the contents, he gives a sweep of his
chin toward the bicycle, and says, "Sowar shuk; tomasha." Pointing out the utter impossibility
of complying with his request in a badly-paved compound packed to its utmost capacity with
people; he looks wearily at the ragged and unruly multitude before him, as though conscious
that it would be useless to try and do anything with them, and then giving some order to an
officer resumes his official labors.

The officer summons a couple of farrashes, and with long willow switches they flog their way
through the crowd, opening a narrow, but instantly filled again, passage for me to follow.
Outside the compound the officer practically forsakes me and goes over body and soul to the
enemy. Filled with the same dense ignorance and overwhelming desire to see the bicycle ridden,
he desires also to gain the approbation of the crowd, and so brings all his powers of persuasion
to bear against me. Time and again, while traversing with the greatest difficulty the narrow
bazaar in the midst of a surging mob, he faces about and makes the same insane request, shouting
like a maniac to make his voice audible above the din of a thousand clamorous appeals to the
same purpose. Had I the power to annihilate the whole crazy, maddening multitude with a sweep
of the hand, I am afraid they would at this juncture have received but small mercy.

The caravanserai is a big, commodious affair, a quadrangular structure of brick surrounding
fully an acre of ground, and with a small open space outside. There is plenty of room to satisfy
their insane curiosity here without jeopardizing my own neck, and in a fruitless effort to
gratify them I essay to ride. My appearance in the saddle is greeted with wild shouts of exultation,
and in their eagerness to come closer and see exactly how the bicycle is propelled and prevented
from falling over, they close up in front as well as behind, compelling an instant dismount
to prevent disagreeable consequences to myself. Howls of disapproval greet this misinterpreted
action, and the officer and farrashes commence flogging right and left to clear a space for
another trial.

This time, while circling about in the small amphitheatre, walled around by shouting, grinning
human beings, wanton youngsters from the rear shy several stones, and the officer comes near
giving me a header by accidentally inserting his willow staff in the front wheel while pointing
out to the crowd the action of the pedals and the modus operandi of things in general. The
officer evidently regards me as the merest dummy, unable to speak or comprehend a word of the
language, or help myself in any way--the result, it is presumed, of some explanation to that
effect in the letter--and he stalks about with the proud bearing and self-conscious expression
of a showman catering successfully to an appreciative and applauding populace.

The accommodation provided at the caravanserai consists of doorless menzils, elevated three
feet above the ground; a walled partition, with an open archway, divides the quarters into
a room behind and an open porch in front. Conducting me to one of these free-for-anybody places,
which I could just as easily have found and occupied without his assistance, he takes his departure,
leaving me to the tender consideration of an overbearing, ragamuffin mob, in whom the spirit
of wantonness is already aroused.

I attempt to appeal to the reason of my obstreperous audience by standing on the menzil front
and delivering a harangue in such Persian as I have at command.

"Sowar shuk, neis, tomasha, caravanserai neis rah koob neis. Inshalla saba, gitti koob rah
Beerjandi, khylie koob lomasha-kh-y-l-ie koob tomasha saba," is the burden of this harangue;
but eloquent though it be in its simplicity, it fails to accomplish the desired end. Their
reply to it all takes the form of howls of disapproval, and the importunities to ride become
more clamorous than ever.

An effort to keep them from taking possession of my quarters by shoving them off the front
porch, results in my being seized roughly by the throat by one determined assailant and cracked
on the head with a stick by another. Ignorant of a Ferenghi's mode of attack, the presumptuous
individual, with his hand twisted in my neck-handkerchief, cocks his head in a semi-sidewise
attitude, in splendid position to be dropped like a pole-axed steer by a neat tap on the temple.
He wears the green kammerbund of a seyud, however; and even under the shadow of the legations
in Teheran, it is a very serious and risky thing to strike a descendant of the Prophet. For
a lone infidel to do so in the presence of two thousand Mussulman fanatics, already imbued
with the spirit of wantonness, would be little less than deliberate suicide, so a sense of
discretion intervenes to spare him the humiliation of being knocked out of time by an unhallowed
fist. The stiff, United States army helmet, obtained, it will be remembered, at Fort Sidney,
Nebraska, and worn on the road ever since, saves my bump of veneration from actual contact
with the stick of number two; and finding me making only a passive resistance, the valiant
individual in the green kammerbund relaxes both the severity of his scowl and his grip on my
neck gear.

After this there is no use trying to keep them from invading my quarters, and I deem it advisable
to stand closely by the bicycle, humoring their curiosity and getting along with them as peaceably
as possible. The crowd present is constantly augmented by new arrivals from without; at least
two thousand people are struggling, pushing and shouting, some coming forward to invade my
menzil, others endeavoring to escape from the crush. While the rowdiest portion of the crowd
struggle and push and shout in the foreground of this remarkable scene, little knots of big-turbaned
mollahs and better-class citizens are laying their precious heads together scheming against
me in the rear. Now and then a messenger in the semi-military garb of a farrash, pushes his
way to the front and delivers a message from these worthies, full of lies and deceit. From
the top of their shaved and turbaned heads to the soles of their slip-shod feet they are filled
with a pig-headed determination to accomplish their object of seeing the bicycle ridden. They
send me all sorts of messages, from one of but ordinary improbability, saying that the Mustapha
is outside and wants me to come out and ride, to one altogether ridiculous in its wild absurdity,
promising me a present of two tomans.

Occasionally a dervish holds aloft the fantastic paraphernalia of his profession, battles his
way through the surging human surf, and with his black, ferret-like eyes gleaming with unconscious
ferocity through a vision of unkempt hair, thrusts his cocoa-nut alms-receiver under my nose
and says, "Huk yah huk!" or "backsheesh!" Shouted at, gesticulated at, intrigued against and
solicited for alms all at the same time, and with brain-turning persistency, the classic halls
of Bedlam would, in contrast, be a reposeful and calm retreat. Driven by my tormentors almost
to the desperate resolve of emptying my six-shooter among them, let the result to myself be
what it may, the sun of my persecutions has not reached the meridian even yet. The officer
who an hour ago inconsiderately left me to my own resources, now returns with a large party
of friends, bent on seeing the same wonderful sight that has seemingly set the whole city in
an uproar. He has been about the place collecting friends and acquaintances for the purpose
of treating them to an exhibition of my skill on the wheel. The purpose of the officer's return,
with his friends, is readily understood by the crowd, and his arrival is announced by a universal
roar of "Sowar shuk! tomasha!" as though not one of this insatiable mob had yet seen me ride.

Appearing before the elevated porch of the menzil, he beckons me to "come ahead" in quite an
authoritative manner. The peculiar beckoning twist of this presumptuous individual's chin and
henna-stained beard summoning me to come out and "perform" reminds me of nothing so much as
some tamer of wild animals ordering a trained baboon to spruce himself up and dance for the
edification of the circus-going public. Signifying my unwillingness to be thus made a circus
of over and over again, the officer beckons even more peremptorily than before, and even makes
a feint of coming and fetching me out by force.

As may well be believed, the sum of my patience is no longer equal to the strain, and jerking
my revolver around from the obscurity of its hiding-place at my hip to where it can plainly
be seen, and laying a hand menacingly on the butt, I warn him to clear off, in a manner that
causes him to wilt and turn pale. He leaves the caravanserai at once in high dudgeon. It has
been a most humiliating occasion for him, to fall so ignobly from the very high horse on which
he just entered with his bosom friends; but it is no more than he rightly deserves.

Shortly after this little incident the part-proprietor of a tchai-khan not far from the caravanserai,
proposes that I leave my menzil and come with him to his place. Happy in the prospect of any
kind of a change that will secure me a little peace, I readily agree to the proposal and at
once take my departure. A few stones are thrown, fortunately without doing any damage, ere
the tchai-khan is reached; but once inside, the situation is materially improved.

It soon transpires that the speculative proprietors have conceived the bright idea of utilizing
me as an attraction to draw customers to their place of business. Two men are stationed at
the door with clubs, and admittance is only granted to likely-looking people who have money
to spend on water-pipes and tea. A rival attraction already occupies the field in the person
of a Tabreez Turkish luti with a performing rib-nosed mandril and a drum. Now and then, when
the crowd with no money to spend becomes too clamorous about the doorway, the luti goes to
the assistance of the guards, and giving the mandril the length of his chain, chases the people
away.

These wandering troubadours and their performing monkeys are common enough all over Persia,
and one often meets them on the road or in the villages; but the bicycle is quite a different
thing, and the enterprising Tchan-jees do a roaring business all the evening with customers
pouring in to see it and me. The bicycle, the luti, and the mandril occupy the back part of
the large room, where several lamps and farnooses envelop this attractive and drawing combination
with a garish and stagy glow, so that they can be seen to advantage by the throngs of eager
visitors. My own place, as the lion of the occasion, is happily in the vicinity of the samovar,
where liberal-minded customers can treat me to cigarettes and tea.

Ridiculous as is my position in the tchai-khan, it is, of course, infinitely superior in point
of comfort and freedom from annoyance, to my exposed quarters over at the caravanserai. The
luti sings doubtful love songs to the accompaniment of finger-strumming on the drum, and the
mandril now and then condescends to stand on its head, grunt loudly in response to questions,
spin round and round like a dancing dervish, and otherwise give proof of his intelligence and
accomplishments. Its long hair is shorn from the lower portion of its body, but its head and
shoulders are covered with a wealth of silvery-grayish hair that overlaps the nakedness of
its body and gives it the grotesque appearance of wearing a tippet. The animal's temper is
anything but sweet, necessitating the habitual employment of a muzzle to prevent him from biting.
Every ten or fifteen minutes, as regular almost as the movements of Father Time, the mandril's
bottled discontent at being made to perform seems to reach the explosive point, and springing
suddenly at his master, he buries his nose viciously among his clothing in a. determined effort
to chew him up. This spasmodic rage subsides in horrible grunts of disappointment at being
unable to use his teeth, and he becomes reasonably tractable again for another ten minutes.

The luti himself is filled with envy and covetousness at the immense drawing powers of the
bicycle; and in a burst of confidence wants to know if I am an "Ingilis lut;" at the same time
placing his forefingers together as an intimation that if I am we ought by all means to form
a combination and travel the country together. About ten o'clock the khan-jees make me up quite
a comfortable shake-down, and tired out with the tough journey over the mountains and the worrying
persecutions of the afternoon, I fall asleep while yet the house is doing a thriving trade;
the luti singing, the mandril grunting, kalians bubbling, and people talking, all fail to keep
me awake.

The mental and physical exhaustion that makes this possible, does not, however, prevent me
from falling asleep with a firm determination to leave Torbet-i-Haiderie and its turbulent
population too early in the morning for any more crowds to gather. Accordingly, the morning
star has scarcely risen above the horizon ere I turn out, waken one of the khan-jees, pocket
some bread and depart.

Beyond the streams and villages about Torbet-i-Haiderie, the country develops into a level
desert, stretching away southward as far as eye can reach. The trail is firm gravel, the wind
is favorable, the morning cool, and the fresh, clear air of the desert exhilarating; under
these favorable conditions I bowl rapidly along, overtaking in a very short time night-marching
camel-riders that left the city last night. Traces of old irrigating ditches and fields in
one or two places tell the tale of an attempt to reclaim portions of this desert long ago;
but now the camel-thorn and kindred hardy shrubs hold undisputed sway on every hand. During
the forenoon a small oasis is found among some low, shaly hills that give birth to a little
stream, and consequent subsistence, to a few families of people; they live together inside
a high mud-walled enclosure and cultivate a few small fields of grain. The place is called
Kair-abad, and the people mix chopped garlic with their bread before baking it, or sprinkle
the dough liberally with garlic seeds.

About 2 p.m. is reached a much larger oasis containing a couple of villages; beyond this are
diverging trails with no one anywhere near to ask the way. Choosing the one that seems to take
the most southerly course, the trail continues hard and ridable for a few more miles, when
it becomes lost in a sea of shifting sand. Firmer ground is visible in the distance ahead,
and on it are seen the small black tents of a few families of Eliautes. Considerable difficulty
is experienced in getting through the sand; but the width is not great, and the dim trail is
recovered on the southern side with the assistance of a chance acquaintance.

This chance acquaintance is an Eliaute goat-herd, whom I unwittingly scared nearly out of his
senses, and whose gratitude at finding himself confronting a kindly-disposed human being instead
of some supernatural agent of destruction, is very great indeed. He was slumbering at his post,
this gentle guardian of a herd of goats, stretched at full length on the ground. Surveying
his unconscious form for a moment and carried away by the animal-like simplicity of his face,
I finally shout "Hoi!" Opening his eyes with a start and seeing a white-helmeted head surveying
him over the top of a weird, bristling object, the natural impulse of this simple-hearted child
of the desert is to seek safety in flight. Recovering his head, however, upon hearing reassuring
words, he adopts the propitiatory course of rushing impulsively forward and kissing my hand.

Spending his whole life here on the lonely desert in the constant society of a herd of goats,
rarely seeing a stranger or meeting anybody to speak to outside the very limited members of
his own tribesmen in yonder tents, he seems to have almost lost the power of conversation.
His replies are mere guttural gruntings, as though the ever-present music of bleating goats
has had the lamentable effect of neutralizing the naturally superior articulation of a human
being and dragging his powers of utterance down almost to the ignoble level of "mb-b-a-a."

My small stock of Persian words seems also to be altogether lost upon his warped and blunted
powers of understanding, and it is only by an elaborate use of pantomime that I finally succeed
in making my wants understood. He possesses the simple hospitable instincts of a child of Nature's
broad solitudes; he leads the way for over a mile to put me on the now scarcely perceptible
continuation of the trail, and with a worshipfully anxious face he begs of me to go and stay
over night at the tents.

My road leads right past the little cluster of black tents; several women outside collecting
stunted brushwood greet me with the silent, wondering stare of people incapable of any deeper
display of emotion than the animals they daily associate with and subsist upon; half-naked
children stare at me in a dreamy sort of way from beneath the tents. Even the dogs seem to
have lost their canine propensity to resent innovations; the result, no doubt, of the same
dreary, uneventful round of existence, in which the faculty of resentment has become dwarfed
by the general absence of anything new or novel to bark at.

The tents of the Eliautes are small and inelegant as compared with the tents of well-to-do
Koords, and the physique and general appearance of the Eliautes themselves is vastly inferior
to the magnificent fellows that we found loafing about the headquarters of the Koordish sheikhs
in Asia Minor and Western Persia.

The trail I am now following is evidently but little used, requiring the tracking instincts
of an Indian almost to keep it in view. It leads due southward across the broad, level wastes
of the Goonabad Desert, the surface of which affords most excellent wheeling even where there
is not the faintest indication of a trail. Much of the surface partakes of the character of
bare mud-flats that afford as smooth a wheeling surface as the alkali flats of the West; the
surface is covered all over with crisp sun peelings--the thin, shiny surface of mud, baked
and curled upward by the fierce heat of the sun, and which now crackle like myriads of dried
twigs beneath the wheel. Occasionally I pass through thousands of acres of wild tulips, and
scattering bands of antelopes are observed feeding in the distance. The bulbous roots of a
great many of the tulips have been eaten by herbivorous animals of epicurean tastes---our fastidious
friends, the antelopes, no doubt. The flags are bitten off and laid aside, the tender, white
interior of the bulb alone is extracted and eaten, the less tender outside layers being left
in the hole. It is a glorious ride across the Goonabad Desert, a ten-mile pace being quite
possible most of the way; sometimes the trail is visible and sometimes it is not. With but
the vaguest idea of the distance to the next abode of man, or the nature of the country ahead,
I bowl along southward, led by the strange infatuation of a pathfinder traversing terra incognita,
and rejoicing in the sense of boundless freedom and unrestraint that comes of speeding across
open country where Nature still holds her primitive sway.

Twice I wheel past the ruins of wayside umbars, whose now utterly neglected condition and the
well-nigh obliterated trail point out that I am travelling over a route that has for some reason
been abandoned. A variation from the otherwise universal level occurs in the shape of a cluster
of low, mound-like hills, whose modest proportions are made gorgeous and interesting by flakes
of mica that glint and glisten in the sunlight as though the hills might be strewn with precious
jewels.

The sun is getting pretty low, and no signs of human habitation anywhere about; but the wheeling
is excellent, and the termination of the lake-like level is observable in the distance ahead
in favor of low hills. Between my present position and the hills the prospect is that of continuous
level ground. Imagine my astonishment, then, at shortly finding myself standing on the bank
of a stream about thirty yards wide, its yellow waters flowing sluggishly along twenty feet
below the surface of the desert. The abrupt nature of its banks, and an evidently unpleasant
habit of becoming unfordable after a rain, tell the story of the abandoned trail I have been
following. Whether three feet deep or thirty, the thick, muddy character of its moving water
refuses to reveal, as, standing on the bank, I ruefully survey the situation.

No time is to be lost in idle speculation, unless I want to stretch my supperless form on the
barren, brown bosom of mother earth, and dream the dreary visions conjured up by the clamorous
demands of unsatisfied nature; for the sun has well-nigh sunk below the horizon. Clambering
down the almost perpendicular bank I succeed, after several attempts, in discovering a passage
that can be forded, and so, wrapping my clothing, money, revolver, etc. tightly within my rubber
coat, I essay to carry the bundle across. All goes well until I reach a point just beyond the
middle of the stream, when the bed of the stream breaks through with my weight and lets me
down into a watery cavern to which there appears to be no bottom. The bed of the stream at
this point seems to be a mere thin shell, beneath which there are other aqueous depths, and
fearful lest the undercurrent should carry me beneath the crust and prevent me recovering myself,
I loose the bundle and regain the surface without more ado. The rubber covering preserves the
clothes from getting much of a wetting, and I swim and wade to the opposite shore with them
without much trouble.

To get the bicycle over, however, looks a far more serious undertaking; for to break through
in this way with a bicycle held aloft would probably result in getting entangled in the wheel
and held under the water. It would be equally risky to take that important piece of property
apart and cross over with it piece by piece, for the loss of any part would be a serious matter
here.

Several new places are tried, but this one is the only passage that can be forded. My rope
is also too short to be of avail in swimming over and pulling the bicycle across. Finally,
after many attempts, I succeed in finding a ford immediately alongside where I had broken through,
and after thoroughly testing the strength of the crust by standing and jumping up and down,
I conclude to risk carrying the wheel. Owing to the extreme difficulty of following the same
line, it is scarcely necessary to remark that every step forward is made with extreme caution
and every foot of the riverbed traversed tested as thoroughly as possible, under the circumstances,
before fully trusting my weight upon it. Once the crust breaks through again, letting me down
several inches; but, fortunately, the second bottom is here but a matter of inches below the
first shell, and I am able to recover myself without dropping the bicycle; and the southern
bank is reached without further misadventure.

No trail is visible on the crackled surface of the mud-flat across the river, as I continue
in a general southward course, hoping to find it again ere it becomes too dark Soon a man riding
on a camel is descried some distance off to the right, and deeming it advisable to seek for
information at his hands, I shape my course toward him and give chase. Becoming conscious of
a strange-looking object careering over the plain in his direction, the man surveys me for
a moment from the back of his awkward steed and then steers his ship of the desert in another
direction. The lumbering camel is quickly overtaken, however, and the gallant but apprehensive
rider makes a stand and threateningly waves me away. Observing the absence of the familiar
long-barrelled gun, I persist in my purpose of interviewing him regarding the road, and finally
learn from him that the village of Goonabad is eight miles farther south, and that the trail
will be easier followed when I reach the hills. Had he been armed with a gun, there would have
been more or less risk in approaching him in the dusky shades of evening on so strange a vehicle
of travel; but before I depart he alights from his camel for the characteristic purpose of
kissing my hand.

A couple of miles brings me to the hills, where my riding abruptly comes to an end; the hills
are simply huge waves of sand and dust collected on the shore of the desert and held together
by a growth of coarse shrubs. The dim light of the young moon proves insufficient for my purpose
of keeping the trail, and the difficulty in trundling through the sand compels me to seek the
cold comfort of a night in the desert, after all.

Goonabad appears to be a sort of general rendezvous for wandering tribes of Eliautes that roam
the desert country around with their flocks and herds, the tent population of the place far
outnumbering the soil-tilling people of the village itself. A complete change is here observable
in both the climate and the people; north of the desert the young barley is in a very backward
state, but at Goonabad both wheat and barley are headed out, and the sun strikes uncomfortably
hot as soon as it rises above the horizon. It is a curious change in so short a distance. The
men affect the long, dangling, turban-end of the Afghans and the women blossom forth in the
gayest of colors; the people are refreshingly simple-hearted and honest, as compared with the
knowing customers along the Teheran-Meshed road.

Sand-hills, scattering fields and villages, and a bewildering time generally, in keeping my
course, characterize the experience of the forenoon. The people of one particular village passed
through are observed to be all descendants of the Prophet, wearing monster green turbans and
green kammerbunds; the women are dressed in white throughout--white socks, white pantalettes,
and white shrouds; they move silently about, more like ghostly visitants than human beings.
Distinctly different types of people from the majority are sometimes met with--full-bearded,
very dark-skinned men, whose bared breasts betray the fact that they are little less hairy
than a bison.

Beyond the sand-hills, the villages, and the cultivation is a stony plain extending for sixteen
miles, a gradual upward slant to a range of mountains. At the base of the mountains an area
of dark-green coloring denotes the presence of fields and orchards and the whereabouts of the
important village of Kakh. Beautifully terraced wheat-fields and vineyards, and peach and pomegranate
orchards in full bloom, gladden the eyes and present a most striking contrast to the stony
plain as the vicinity of Kakh is reached, and another pleasing and conspicuous feature is the
dome of a mesjid mosaicked with bright-colored tiles.

The good people of Kakh are inquisitive even above their fellows, if such can be possible,
but they are well-behaved and mild-mannered with it. After taking the ragged edge off their
curiosity by riding up and down the main thoroughfare of the village, the keeper of a mercantile
affair locks the bicycle up in his room, and I spend the evening hobnobbing with him and his
customers in his little stall-like place of business. Kakh is famous for the production of
little seedless raisins like those of Smyrna. Bushels of these are kicking about the place,
and our merchant friend becomes filled with a wild idea that I might, perchance, buy the lot.
A moment's reflection would convince him that ten bushels of sickly-sweet raisins would be
about the last thing he could sell to a person travelling on a bicycle; but his supply of raisins
is evidently so outrageously ahead of the demand that his ambition to reduce his stock obscures
his better judgment like a cloud, and places him in the position of a drowning man clutching
wildly at a straw.

Considerable opium is also grown hereabouts, and the people make it into sticks about the size
of a carpenter's pencil; hundreds of these also occupy the merchant's shelves. He seems to
have very little that isn't grown in the neighborhood except tea and loaf-sugar.

Eyots, who were absent in their fields when I arrived, come crowding around the store in the
evening, bothering me to ride; the shop-keeper bids them wait till my departure in the morning,
telling them I am not a luti, riding simply to let people see. He provides me with a door that
fastens inside, and I am soon in the land of dreams.

Early in the morning I am awakened by people pounding at the door and shouting, "A/tab, Sahib-a/tab.'"
It is the belated ryots of yesterday eve; thoroughly determined to be on hand and see the start,
they are letting me know that it is sunrise.

A boisterous mountain stream, tearing along at racing speed over a rocky bed a hundred and
fifty yards wide, provides Kakh with perpetual music, and furnishes travellers going southward
with an interesting time getting across. This stream must very frequently become a raging torrent,
quite impassable; for although it is little more than knee-deep this morning, the swift water
carries down stones as large as a brick, that strike against the ankles and well-nigh knock
one off his feet.

Beyond Kakh the trail winds its circuitous way through a mountainous region, following one
little stream to its source, climbing over the crest of an intervening ridge and down the bed
of another stream. It is but an indistinct donkey trail at best, and the toilsome mountain
climbing reminds me vividly of the worst parts of Asia Minor. Toward nightfall I wander into
the village of Nukhab, a small place perched among the hills, inhabited by kindly-disposed,
hospitable folks.

Having seen the unhappy effect of the Governor-General's letter of recommendation at Torbet-i-Haiderie,
and desirous of seeing what effect it might, perchance, have on the more simple-hearted people
of Nukhab, I present it to the little, old, blue-gowned Khan of the village. Like a very large
proportion of his people, the Khan is suffering from chronic ophthalmia; but he peruses the
letter by the glimmer of a blaze of camel-thorn. The intentions of these people were plainly
most hospitable from the beginning, so that it is difficult to determine about the effect of
the letter.

Willing hands sweep out the quarters assigned for my accommodation, the improvised besoms filling
the place with a cloud of dust; the doorway is ruthlessly mutilated to make it large enough
to admit the bicycle; nummuds are spread and a crackling fire soon fills the room with mingled
smoke and light. The people are allowed to circulate freely in and out to see me, but only
the Khan himself and a few of the leading lights of the village are permitted to indulge in
the coveted privilege of spending the entire evening in my company. The village is ransacked
for eatables to honor their guest, resulting in a bountiful repast of eggs, pillau, mast, and
sheerah.

Away down here among the mountains and out of the world, these people see nothing more curious
than their next-door neighbors from year to year; they take the most ridiculous interest in
such small affairs as my note-book and pencil, and everything about me seems to strike them
as peculiar.

The entire village, as usual, assembles to see me dispose of the eatables so generously provided;
and later in the evening there is another highly-expectant assembly waiting around, out of
curiosity, to see what sort of a figure a Ferenghi cuts at his evening devotions. Poor benighted
followers of the False Prophet, how little they comprehend us Christians! Suddenly it seems
to dawn upon the mind of the simple old Khan that, being a stranger in a strange land, I might,
perchance, be a trifle mixed about my bearings, and so he kindly indicates the direction of
Mecca. When informed that the Ingilis never prostrate themselves toward Mecca and say "Allah-il-allah!"
they evince the greatest astonishment; and then the strange, unnatural impiousness of people
who never address themselves to Allah nor prostrate toward the Holy City, impresses their simple
minds with something akin to the feeling entertained among certain of ourselves toward extra
dare-devil characters, and they seem to take a deeper and kindlier interest in me than ever.
The disappointment at not seeing what I look like at prayers is more than offset by the additional
novelty imparted to my person by the, to them, strange and sensational omission.

They seem greatly disappointed to learn that I am going away in the morning; they have plenty
of toke-me-morge, pillau, mast, and sheerah, they say--plenty of everything; and they want
me to stay with them always. Revolving the matter over in my mind, I am forcibly struck with
the calm, reposeful state of Nukhab society; and what a brilliant field of enterprise for an
ambitious person the place would be. Turned Mussulman, joined in wedlock to three or four sore-eyed
village damsels; worshipped as a sort of strange, superior being, hakim and eye-water dispenser;
consulted as a walking store-house of occult philosophy on all occasions; endeavoring to educate
the people up to habits of all-round cleanliness; chiding the mothers for allowing the flies
to swarm and devour the poor little babies' eyes--all this, for toke-me-morge, pillau, mast,
and sheerah, twice or thrice a day! Involuntarily my eye roams over the gladsome countenances
of the eligible portion of my female auditors, as though driven by this whimsical flight of
fancy to the necessity of at once making a choice. There is only one present with any pretence
to comeliness; and embarrassed, no doubt, by the extreme tenderness of the stranger's glance,
she shrinks from view behind an aged and ugly person whom I take to be her mother.

Everybody stops to see what a Ferenghi looks like en deshabille, and when I am snugly sandwiched
between the quilts provided, they gather about me and peer curiously down into my face.

An enterprising youth is on hand at daybreak making a fire; but it is eight o'clock before
I am able to get away; they seem to be mildly scheming among themselves to keep me with them
as long as possible.

The trail winds and twists about among the mountains, following in the train of a wayward little
stream, then leads over a pass and emerges, in the company of another stream, upon a slanting
plateau leading down to an extensive plain. Rounding the last spur of the hills, I find myself
approaching a crowd numbering at least a hundred people. Hats are waved gleefully, voices are
lifted up in joyous shouts of welcome, and the whole company give way to demonstrations of
delight at my approach. A minute later I find myself surrounded by the familiar faces of the
population of Nukhab--my road has followed a roundabout course of six or seven miles, and our
enterprising friends have taken a short cut over the lulls to intercept me at this point, where
they can watch my, progress across the open plain. They have brought along the kind old Kahn's
kalian and tobacco-bag, and the wherewithal to make me a parting glass of tea.

Eight or ten miles of fair wheeling across the plain, through the isolated village of Mohammedabad,
and the trail loses itself among the rank, dead stalks of the assafoetida plant that here characterizes
the vegetation of the broad, level sweep of plain. The day is cloudy, and with no trail visible,
my compass has to be brought into requisition; though oft-times finding it useful, it is the
first time I have found this article to be really indispensable so far on the tour.

The atmosphere of an assafoetida desert is among those things that can better be imagined than
described; the aroma of the fetid gum is wafted to and fro, and assails the nostrils in a manner
quite the reverse of "Araby the blest." The plant is a sturdy specimen among the annuals: its
straight, upright stem is but three or four feet high, but often measuring four inches in diameter,
and it not infrequently defies the blasts of the Khorassan winter and the upheaving thaws of
spring, and preserves its upright position for a year after its death. The thick, dead stems
and branching tops of last year's plants are seen by the thousands, sturdily holding their
ground among the rank young shoots of the new growth.

Mountainous territory is again entered during the afternoon, and shortly after sunset I arrive
at a cluster of wretched mud hovels, numbering about two dozen. Here my reception is preeminently
commercial and business-like, the people requiring payment in advance for the bread and eggs
and rogan provided.

A nonsensical custom among the people of Southern Khorassan is to offer one's food in turn
to everybody present and say, "Bis-millah," before commencing to eat it yourself. Although
a ridiculous piece of humbug, it is generally my custom to fall in with the peculiar ways of
the country, and for days past have invariably offered my food to scores of people whom I knew
beforehand would not take it. The lack of courtesy at this hamlet in exacting payment in advance
would seem naturally to preclude the right to expect the following of courteous customs in
return. In this, however, I find myself mistaken; for my omission to say "Bis-millah" not only
fills these people with astonishment, but excites unfavorable comment.

The door-ways of the houses here are entirely too small to admit the bicycle, and that much-enduring
vehicle has to take its chances on the low roof with a score or so inquisitive and meddlesome
goats that instantly gather around it, as though revolving in their pugnacious minds some fell
scheme of destruction. Outside are several camels tied to their respective pack-saddles, which
have been taken off and laid on the ground. Before retiring for the night, it occurs to my
mind that the total depravity of a goat's appetite bodes ill for the welfare of my saddle,
and that, everything considered, the bicycle could, perhaps, be placed safer on the ground;
in addition to regarding the saddle as a particularly toothsome morsel, the goats' venturesome
disposition might lead them to clambering about on the spokes, and generally mixing things
up. So, taking it down, I stand it up against the wall, and place a heap of old pack-saddle
frames and camel-trappings before it as an additional precaution. During the night some of
the camels break loose and are heard chasing one another around the house, knocking things
over and bellowing furiously. Apprehensive of my wheel, I get up and find it knocked over,
but, fortunately, uninjured; I then take off the saddle and return it to the tender care and
consideration of the goats.

Four men and a boy share with me a small, unventilated den, about ten feet square; one of them
is a camel-driving descendant of the Prophet, and sings out "Allah-il-allah!" several times
during the night in his sleep; another is the patriarch of the village, a person guilty of
cheating the undertaker, lo! these many years, and who snuffles and catches his breath. The
other two men snore horribly, and the boy gives out unmistakable signs of a tendency to follow
their worthy example; altogether, it is anything but a restful night.

CHAPTER VII.

BEERJAND AND THE FRONTIER OF AFGHANISTAN.

Thirty miles over hill and dale, after leaving the little hamlet, and behold, the city of Beerjand
appears before me but a mile or thereabouts away, at the foot of the hills I am descending.
One's first impression of Beerjand is a sense of disappointment; the city is a jumbled mass
of uninteresting mud buildings, ruined and otherwise, all of the same dismal mud-brown hue.
Not a tree exists to relieve the eye, nor a solitary green object to break the dreary monotony
of the prospect; the impression is that of a place existing under some dread ban of nature
that forbids the enlivening presence of a tree, or even the redeeming feature of a bit of greensward.

The broad, sandy bed of a stream contains a sluggishly-flowing reminder of past spring freshets;
but the quickening presence of a stream of water seems thrown away on Beerjand, except as furnishing
a place for closely-veiled females to come and wash clothes, and for the daily wading and disporting
of amphibious youngsters. In any other city a part of its mission would be the nurturing of
vegetation.

The Ameer, Heshmet-i-Molk, I quickly learn, is living at his summer-garden at Ali-abad, four
farsakhs to the east. Curious to see something of a place so much out of the world, and so
little known as Beerjand, I determine upon spending the evening and night here, and continuing
on to Ali-abad next morning.

There appears to be absolutely nothing of interest to a casual observer about the city except
its population, and they are interesting from their strange, cosmopolitan character, and as
being the most unscrupulous and keenest people for money one can well imagine. The city seems
a seething nest of hard characters, who buzz around my devoted person like wasps, seemingly
restrained only by the fear of retribution from pouncing on my personal effects and depriving
me of everything I possess.

The harrowing experiences of Torbet-i Haiderie have taught a useful lesson that stands me in
good stead at Beerjand. Ere entering the city proper, I enlist the services of a respectable-looking
person to guide the way at once where the pressing needs of hunger can be attended to before
the inevitable mob gathers about me and renders impossible this very necessary part of the
programme. Having duly fortified myself against the anticipated pressure of circumstances by
consuming bread and cheese and sheerah in the semi-seclusion of a suburban bake-house, my guide
conducts me to the caravanserai, receives his backsheesh, and loses himself in the crowd that
instantly fills the place.

The news of my arrival seems to set the whole city in a furore; besides the crowds below, the
galched roof of the caravanserai becomes standing room for a mass of human beings, to the imminent
danger of breaking it in. So, at least, thinks the caravanserai-jee, who becomes anxious about
it and tries to persuade them to come down; but he might as well attempt to summon down from
above the unlistening clouds.

Around two sides of the caravanserai compound is a narrow, bricked walk, elevated to the level
of the menzil floors; at the imminent risk of breaking my neck, I endeavor to appease the clamorous
multitude, riding to and fro for the edification of what is probably the wildest-looking assembly
that could be collected anywhere in the world. Afghans, with tall, conical, gold-threaded head-dresses,
converted into monster turbans by winding around them yards and yards of white or white-and-blue
cloth, three feet of which is left dangling down the back; Beloochees in flowing gowns that
were once white; Arabs in the striped mantles and peculiar headdress of their country; dervishes,
mollahs, seyuds, and the whole fantastic array of queer-looking people living in Beerjand,
travelling through, or visiting here to trade.

Some of the Afghans wear a turban and kammerbund, all of one piece; after winding the long
cotton sheet a number of times about the peaked head-dress, it is passed down the back and
then ends its career in the form of a kammerbund about the waist. Fights and tumults occur
as the result of the caravanserai-jee's attempt to shut the gate and keep them out, and in
despair he puts me in a room and locks the door. In less than five minutes the door is broken
down, and a second attempt to seclude myself results in my being summarily pelted out again
with stones through a hole in the roof.

A Yezdi traveller, occupying one of the menzils--all of which at Beeriand are provided with
doors and locks--now invites me to his quarters; locking the door and keeping me out of sight,
he hopes by making me his guest to assist in getting rid of the crowd. Whatever his object,
its consummation is far from being realized; the unappeased curiosity of the crowds of newly
arriving people finds expression in noisy shouts and violent hammering on the door, creating
a din so infernal that the well-meaning traveller quickly tires of his bargain. Following the
instincts of the genuine Oriental, he conjures up the genius of diplomacy to rid himself of
his guest and the annoyance occasioned by my presence.

"If you go outside and ride around the place once more," he says, "Inshallah, the people will
all go home."

This is a very transparent proposition--a broad hint, covered with the thin varnish of Persian
politeness. No sooner am I outside than the door is locked, and the wily Yezdi has accomplished
his purpose of ousting me and thereby securing a little peace for himself. No right-thinking
person will blame him for turning me out; on the contrary, he deserves much praise for attempting
to take me in.

I now endeavor to render my position bearable by locking up the bicycle and allowing the populace
to concentrate their eager gaze on me, perching myself on the roof in position to grant them
a fair view. Swarms of people come flocking up after me, evidently no more able to control
their impulse to follow than if they were so many bleating sheep following the tinkling leadership
of a bellwether or a goat. The caravanserai-jee begs me to come down again, fearing the weight
will cause the roof to cave in. well-nigh at my wit's end what to do, I next take up a squatting
position in a corner and resign myself to the unhappy fate of being importuned to ride, shouted
at in the guttural tones of desert tribesmen, questioned in unknown tongues, solicited for
alms and schemed against and worried for this, that, and the other, by covetous and evil-minded
ruffians.

"The Ingilis have khylie pool-k-h-y-lie pool!" (much money) says one ferocious-looking individual
to his companion, and their black eyes glisten and their fingers rub together feverishly as
they talk, as if the mere imagination of handling my money were a luxury in itself.

"He must have khylie pool if he is going all the way to Hindostan-k-h-y-lie pool!" suggests
another; and the coveteousness of dozens of keenly interested listeners finds expression in
"Pool, pool; the Ingilis have khylie pool."

One eager ragamuffin brings me half-a-dozen sour and shrivelled oranges, utterly worthless,
for which he asks the outrageous sum of three kerans; a second villainous-looking specimen
worries me continuously to leave the caravanserai and go with him somewhere. I never could
make out where.

He looks the veriest cutthroat, and, curious to penetrate the secret of his intentions, and
perchance secure something interesting for my note-book, I at length make pretence of acceding
to his wishes. Bystanders at once interfere to prevent him enticing me away, and when he angrily
remonstrates he is hustled unceremoniously out into the street.

