For it is not altogether ill with the invalid, after all.   If it is only rarely that anything
penetrates vividly into his  numbed spirit, yet, when anything does, it brings with it a  joy
that is all the more poignant for its very rarity.  There  is something pathetic in these occasional
returns of a glad  activity of heart.  In his lowest hours he will be stirred and  awakened
by many such; and they will spring perhaps from very  trivial sources; as a friend once said
to me, the "spirit of  delight" comes often on small wings.   And if this falls out capriciously
with the healthy, how much  more so with the invalid.  Some day he will find his first  violet,
and be lost in pleasant wonder, by what alchemy the  cold earth of the clods, and the vapid
air and rain, can be  transmuted into colour so rich and odour so touchingly sweet.   Or perhaps
he may see a group of washerwomen relieved, on a  spit of shingle, against the blue sea, or
a meeting of flower- gatherers in the tempered daylight of an olive-garden; and  something
significant or monumental in the grouping, something  in the harmony of faint colour that is
always characteristic  of the dress of these southern women, will come borne to him  unexpectedly,
and awake in him that satisfaction with which we  tell ourselves that we are the richer by
one more beautiful  experience.  Or it may be something even slighter: as when the  opulence
of the sunshine, which somehow gets lost and fails to  produce its effect on the large scale,
is suddenly revealed to  him by the chance isolation - as he changes the position of  his sunshade
- of a yard or two of roadway with its stones and  weeds.  And then, there is no end to the
infinite variety of  the olive-yards themselves.  Even the colour is indeterminate  and continually
shifting: now you would say it was green, now  gray, now blue; now tree stands above tree,
like "cloud on  cloud," massed into filmy indistinctness; and now, at the  wind's will, the
whole sea of foliage is shaken and broken up  with little momentary silverings and shadows.
Who can forget how, when he has chanced upon some  attitude of complete restfulness, after
long uneasy rolling to  and fro on grass or heather, the whole fashion of the  landscape has
been changed for him, as though the sun had just  broken forth, or a great artist had only
then completed, by  some cunning touch, the composition of the picture?  And not  only a change
of posture - a snatch of perfume, the sudden  singing of a bird, the freshness of some pulse
of air from an  invisible sea, the light shadow of a travelling cloud, the  merest nothing
that sends a little shiver along the most  infinitesimal nerve of a man's body - not one of
the least of  these but has a hand somehow in the general effect, and brings  some refinement
of its own into the character of the pleasure  we feel.

And if the external conditions are thus varied and  subtle, even more so are those within our
own bodies.

It is not in such numbness of spirit only that the life  of the invalid resembles a premature
old age.  Those  excursions that he had promised himself to finish, prove too  long or too
arduous for his feeble body; and the barrier-hills  are as impassable as ever.  Many a white
town that sits far  out on the promontory, many a comely fold of wood on the  mountain side,
beckons and allures his imagination day after  day, and is yet as inaccessible to his feet
as the clefts and  gorges of the clouds.  The sense of distance grows upon him  wonderfully;
and after some feverish efforts and the fretful  uneasiness of the first few days, he falls
contentedly in with  the restrictions of his weakness.  His narrow round becomes  pleasant
and familiar to him as the cell to a contented  prisoner.  Just as he has fallen already out
of the mid race  of active life, he now falls out of the little eddy that  circulates in the
shallow waters of the sanatorium.  He sees  the country people come and go about their everyday
affairs,  the foreigners stream out in goodly pleasure parties; the stir  of man's activity
is all about him, as he suns himself inertly  in some sheltered corner; and he looks on with
a patriarchal  impersonality of interest, such as a man may feel when he  pictures to himself
the fortunes of his remote descendants, or  the robust old age of the oak he has planted over-night.

In this falling aside, in this quietude and desertion of  other men, there is no inharmonious
prelude to the last  quietude and desertion of the grave; in this dulness of the  senses there
is a gentle preparation for the final  insensibility of death.  And to him the idea of mortality
comes in a shape less violent and harsh than is its wont, less  as an abrupt catastrophe than
as a thing of infinitesimal  gradation, and the last step on a long decline of way.  As we
turn to and fro in bed, and every moment the movements grow  feebler and smaller and the attitude
more restful and easy,  until sleep overtakes us at a stride and we move no more, so  desire
after desire leaves him; day by day his strength  decreases, and the circle of his activity
grows ever narrower;  and he feels, if he is to be thus tenderly weaned from the  passion of
life, thus gradually inducted into the slumber of  death, that when at last the end comes,
it will come quietly  and fitly.  If anything is to reconcile poor spirits to the  coming of
the last enemy, surely it should be such a mild  approach as this; not to hale us forth with
violence, but to  persuade us from a place we have no further pleasure in.  It  is not so much,
indeed, death that approaches as life that  withdraws and withers up from round about him.
He has  outlived his own usefulness, and almost his own enjoyment; and  if there is to be no
recovery; if never again will he be young  and strong and passionate, if the actual present
shall be to  him always like a thing read in a book or remembered out of  the far-away past;
if, in fact, this be veritably nightfall,  he will not wish greatly for the continuance of
a twilight  that only strains and disappoints the eyes, but steadfastly  await the perfect
darkness.  He will pray for Medea: when she  comes, let her either rejuvenate or slay.

