The fourth camp was at the ancient city of Gouda, famed for its great old church with stained-glass
windows and for its excellent cheese and clay pipes. This camp was the earliest and one of
the most interesting that I visited. It was established in a series of exceptionally large
and fine greenhouses, which happened to be empty when the emergency came. Somebody--I think
it was the clever Burgomaster Yssel de Scheppe and his admirable wife--had the good idea of
utilizing them for the refugees. It seemed a curious notion, to raise human plants under glass.
But it worked finely. The houses were long and lofty; they had concrete floors and broad concrete
platforms where the "cubicles" for the separate families could easily be erected; steam heat,
electric light, hot and cold water were already "laid on"; it was quite palatial in its way.
A few wooden houses, a laundry, a kitchen, a carpenter-shop for the men, and so on, were quickly
run up. There was a bowling-alley and a playground and a schoolhouse. The people could go to
church in the town. Soon twenty-five hundred exiles were living in this queer but comfortable camp.

But it was evident that this refugee life, even under the best conditions that could be devised,
was abnormal. There was not room in the industrial life of Holland for all these people to
stay there permanently. Besides, they did not want to stay, and that counts for something in
human affairs. The question arose whether it might not be wise to let them go home. Not to
send them home, you understand. That was never even contemplated. But simply to allow them
to return to their own country, at least in the regions where the fury of war had already passed
by. I suggested to Mr. Stuart that before you allow poor folks to "go home," you ought to know
whether they have a "home" to go to. So we took my motor in October and made a little tour
of investigation in Belgium.

That was a strange and memorable journey. The long run in the dripping autumn afternoon along
the Antwerp Road, where the miserable fugitives were still trudging in thousands; the search
for lodgings in the stricken city, where most of the streets were silent and deserted as if
the plague had passed there, and the only bustling life was in the central quarter, where "the
field-gray ones" abounded; the closed shops, the house-fronts shattered by shells, the great
cathedral standing in the moonlight, unharmed as far as we could see, except for one shell
which had penetrated the south transept, just where Rubens's "Descent from the Cross" used
to hang before it was carried away for safety--I shall never forget those impressions.

The next morning, provided with permits which the German Military Commandant had very courteously
given us, we set out on our tour. The journey became still more strange. The beautiful trees
of the suburbs were razed to the ground, the little villas stood empty, many of them half-ruined.
(Perhaps one of them belonged to our friend the landscape-gardener.) We could see clearly the
emplacements for the big German guns, which had been secretly laid long before the war began,
concealed in cellars and beneath innocent-looking tennis-courts. The ring-forts surrounding
Antwerp were knocked to pieces, their huge concrete gateways, their stone facings, their high
earthworks, all battered out of shape.

Town after town through which we passed lay half-destroyed or in complete ruins. Wavre, Waelhem,
Termonde, Duffel, Lierre, and many smaller places were in various stages of destruction, burned
or shattered by shell fire and explosives. The heaps of bricks and stones encumbered the streets
so that it was hard to pick our way through. The smell of decaying bodies tainted the air.
The fields had been inundated in the valleys; the water was subsiding; here and there corpses
lay in the mud. Old trenches everywhere; thousands of rudely heaped graves, marked by two crossed
sticks; miles on miles of rusty barbed-wire defenses, with dead cows or horses entangled in
them, slowly rotting, haunted by the carrion crows.

Yet there were some people in the countryside. Now and then we saw a woman or an old man digging
in field or garden. We stopped at the front yard of a little farmhouse, where the farmer's
wife stood, and asked her some directions about the road. She gave them cheerfully, though
the house at her back was little more than a mass of ruins.

"Were you here in the fighting?" we asked.

"But no, messieurs," she answered with a short laugh. "If I had been here, I should not be
here. I ran away to Holland and returned yesterday to my house. But how shall I creep in?"
She pointed over her shoulder to the pile of bricks. "I am not a cat or a rat."

They are indomitable, those Flemish people. At Lierre we were very hungry and searched vainly
for an inn or a grocery. At last in one of the streets we saw a little baker-shop. The upper
story was riddled and broken. But the shop was untouched, the window-shade half up, and underneath
we could see two loaves of bread. We went in. The bare-armed baker met us.

"Can you sell us a little bread?"

"But certainly, messieurs, that is what I am here for. Not the window loaves, however; I have
a fresh loaf, if you please. Also a little cheese, if you will."

"Were you here in the fighting?"

"Assuredly not! It was impossible. But I hurried back after three days. You see, messieurs,
some people were returning, and me--I am the Baker of Lierre."

He said it as if it were a title of nobility.

At Malines (Mechelen) the devastation appeared perhaps more shocking because we had known the
russet and gray old city so well in peaceful years. Many of the streets were impassable, choked
with debris. One side of the great Square was knocked to fragments. The huge belfry, Saint
Rombaud's Tower, wherein hangs the famous carillon of more than thirty bells, was battered
but still stood firm. The vast cathedral was a melancholy wreck of its former beauty and grandeur.
The roof was but a skeleton of bare rafters; the side wall pierced with gaping rents and holes;
the pictured windows were all gone; the sunlight streamed in everywhere upon the stone floor,
strewn with an indescribable confusion of shattered glass, fallen beams, fragments of carved
wood, and broken images of saints.

A little house behind the Church of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, the roof and upper story of
which had been pierced by shells, seemed to be occupied. We knocked and went in. The man and
his wife were in the sitting-room, trying to put it in order. Much of the furniture was destroyed;
the walls were pitted with shrapnel-scars, but the cheap ornaments on the mantel were unbroken.
In the ceiling was a big hole, and in the floor a pit in which lay the head and fragments of
a German shell. I asked if I might have them. "Certainly," answered the man. "We wish to keep
no souvenirs of that wicked thing."

V

I do not propose to describe the magnificent work of the "Commission for Relief in Belgium."
It is too well known. Besides, it is not my story; it is the story of Herbert Hoover, who made
the idea a reality, and of the crew of fine and fearless young Americans who worked with him.
England and France furnished more money to buy food; but the United States, in addition to
money and wheat, gave the organization, the personal energy and toil and tact, the assurance
of fair play and honest dealing, without which that food could never have gotten into Belgium
or been distributed only to the civil population.

Holland was the door through which all the supplies for the C. R. B. had to pass. The first
two cargoes that went in I had to put through personally, and nearly had to fight to do it.
My job was to keep the back of the United States against that door and hold it open. It was
not always easy. I was obliged to make protests, remonstrances, and polite suggestions about
what would happen if certain things were not done.

Once the Germans refused to give any more "safe-conduct passes" for relief ships on the return
voyage. Of course, that would have made the work impossible. A German aircraft bombed one of
these ships. I put the matter mildly but firmly to the German Minister. "This work is in your
interest. It relieves you from the burden of feeding a lot of people whom you would otherwise
be bound to feed. You want it to go on?" "Yes, certainly, by all means." "Well, then, you will
have to stop attacking the C. R. B. ships or else the work will have to stop. The case is very
simple. There is only one thing to do." He promised to take the matter up with Berlin at once.
In a couple of days the answer came: "Very sorry. Regrettable mistake. Aviator could not see
markings on side and stern of ship. Advise large horizontal signs painted on top deck of ships,
visible from above. Safe-conducts will be granted."

When this was told to Captain White, a clever Yankee sea-captain who had general charge of
the C. R. B. shipping, he laughed considerably and then said: "Why, look-a-here, I'll paint
those boats all over, top, sides, and bottom, if that'll only keep the ---- Germans from sinkin'
'em."

From a million and a half to two million men, women, and children in Belgium and northern France
were saved from starving to death by the work of the C. R. B. The men who were doing it had
a chance to observe the conditions in those invaded countries. They came to the Legation at
The Hague and told simply what they knew. We got the real story of Miss Cavell, cruelly done
to death by "field-gray" officers. We got full descriptions of the system of deporting the
civil population--a system which amounted to enslavement, with a taint of "white slavery" thrown
in. When the Belgian workmen were suddenly called from their homes, herded before the German
commandant, and sent away, they knew not whither, to work for their oppressor, as they were
entrained they sang the "Marseillaise." They knew they would be punished for it, kept without
food, put to the hardest labor. But they sang it. They knew that France, and England too, were
fighting for them, for their rights, for their liberty. They believed that it would come. They
were not conquered yet.

Here I must break off my story for a month. It has not been well told. Words cannot render
the impression of black horror that lay upon us, the fierce indignation that stirred us, during
all those months while we were doing the tasks of peace in peaceful Holland.

We were bound to be neutral in conduct. That was the condition of our service to the wounded,
the prisoners, the refugees, the sufferers, of both sides. We lived up to that condition at
The Hague without a single criticism from anybody--except the subsidized German-American press
in the United States.

But to be neutral in thought and feeling--ah, that was beyond my power. I knew that the predatory
Potsdam gang had chosen and forced the war in order to realize their robber-dream of Pan-Germanism.
I knew that they were pushing it with unheard-of atrocity in Belgium and northern France, in
Poland and Servia and Armenia. I knew that they had challenged and attacked the whole world
of peace-loving nations. I knew that America belonged to that imperilled world. I knew that
there could be no secure labor and no quiet sleep in any land so long as the Potsdam Werwolf
was at large.

Chapter IV GERMANIA MENDAX

I

The truth about the choosing, beginning, and forcing of this abominable war has never been
told by official Germandom.

Now and then an independent German like Maximilian Harden is brave enough to blurt it out:
"Of what use are weak excuses? We willed this war, ... willed it because we were sure we could
win it." (Zukunft, August, 1914.) But in general the official spokesmen of Germany keep up
the claim that their country was attacked and forced to fly to arms to protect herself.

"Gentlemen," said the Imperial Chancellor to the members of the Reichstag on August 4,1914,
"we are now acting in self-defense. Necessity knows no law. Our troops have occupied Luxembourg
and have possibly already entered on Belgian soil. [A little earlier in the speech he confessed
that they had also invaded France.] Gentlemen, that is a breach of international law. The French
Government has notified Brussels that it would respect Belgian neutrality as long as the adversary
respected it. But we know that France stood ready for an invasion. France could wait. We could
not .... The injustice we commit--I speak openly--we will try to make good as soon as our military
aims have been attained. He who is menaced as we are, and is fighting for his all, can only
consider the one and best way to strike." [Footnote 1] (The word which Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg
actually used was "durchhauen", which means "to hew, or hack, a way through.")

[Footnote 1: Out of several translations of this speech I have chosen as the fairest the one
printed by the American Association for International Conciliation, November, 1914, No. 84.]

It was against such weak excuses as this, against the vain pretext that the German war-lords
were the attacked instead of the attackers, that Herr Harden made the frank protest which I
have quoted above.

Meantime the falsehood of the tales of French preparation for invasion and of actual violations
of German territory has been exposed by the evidence of Germans themselves. General Freytag-Loringhoven,
in his essay on "The First Victories in the West," has shown that the French high command was
taken off its guard by the swift stab through Luxembourg and Belgium, and could not get the
Fifth Army Corps to the Douai-Charleroi line until August 22. The municipal authorities of
Nuremburg have declared that they have no knowledge of the dropping of bombs on that city by
French aviators.

The falsehood of the Chancellor's promise that Germany would "make good her injustice" to Belgium
after attaining her military aims is foreshadowed to-day. (September 27.) The newspapers of
this morning contain a semi-official press statement in regard to a note verbale handed by
the Foreign Secretary to the Papal Nuncio at Berlin. Germany, if this statement is correct,
now proposes to spoil the future of Belgium by splitting the nation into two administrative
districts, Flemish and Walloon, thus injecting the poison-germ of disunion into the body politic.
She also demands "the right to develop her economic interests freely in Belgium, especially
in Antwerp," and a guarantee that "any such menace as that which threatened Germany [from Belgium!]
in 1914 shall be excluded." This is the German idea of making good an injustice by committing
a fresh injury. It is in the style of a highwayman who says to his victim: "I will reward you
by letting you go. But I must keep the big pearl, and you must permit me to break both your
arms." [Footnote 2]

[Footnote 2: For further confirmation of these ideas see the Memoir of the late General von
Bissing, former Governor-General of Belgium, published by the Bergisch-Markische Zeitung, May
18, 1917, and by Das Grossere Deutschland, May 19, 1917.

