But him whom he could not hold by love, he would not hold by force. Willie Hughes became a
member of Lord Pembroke's company, and, perhaps in the open yard of the Red Bull Tavern, played
the part of King Edward's delicate minion.  On Marlowe's death, he seems to have returned to
Shakespeare, who, whatever his fellow-partners may have thought of the matter, was not slow
to forgive the wilfulness and treachery of the young actor.

How well, too, had Shakespeare drawn the temperament of the stage- player!  Willie Hughes was
one of those

That do not do the thing they most do show, Who, moving others, are themselves as stone.

He could act love, but could not feel it, could mimic passion without realising it.

In many's looks the false heart's history Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange,

but with Willie Hughes it was not so.  'Heaven,' says Shakespeare, in a sonnet of mad idolatry -

Heaven in thy creation did decree That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell; Whate'er thy
thoughts or thy heart's workings be, Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.

In his 'inconstant mind' and his 'false heart,' it was easy to recognise the insincerity and
treachery that somehow seem inseparable from the artistic nature, as in his love of praise
that desire for immediate recognition that characterises all actors.  And yet, more fortunate
in this than other actors, Willie Hughes was to know something of immortality.  Inseparably
connected with Shakespeare's plays, he was to live in them.

There were endless allusions, also, to Willie Hughes's power over his audience--the 'gazers,'
as Shakespeare calls them; but perhaps the most perfect description of his wonderful mastery
over dramatic art was in A Lover's Complaint, where Shakespeare says of him:-

In him a plenitude of subtle matter, Applied to cautels, all strange forms receives, Of burning
blushes, or of weeping water, Or swooning paleness; and he takes and leaves, In either's aptness,
as it best deceives, To blush at speeches rank, to weep at woes, Or to turn white and swoon
at tragic shows.

Once I thought that I had really found Willie Hughes in Elizabethan literature.  In a wonderfully
graphic account of the last days of the great Earl of Essex, his chaplain, Thomas Knell, tells
us that the night before the Earl died, 'he called William Hewes, which was his musician, to
play upon the virginals and to sing.  "Play," said he, "my song, Will Hewes, and I will sing
it to myself."  So he did it most joyfully, not as the howling swan, which, still looking down,
waileth her end, but as a sweet lark, lifting up his hands and casting up his eyes to his God,
with this mounted the crystal skies, and reached with his unwearied tongue the top of highest
heavens.' Surely the boy who played on the virginals to the dying father of Sidney's Stella
was none other but the Will Hews to whom Shakespeare dedicated the Sonnets, and who he tells
us was himself sweet 'music to hear.'  Yet Lord Essex died in 1576, when Shakespeare himself
was but twelve years of age.  It was impossible that his musician could have been the Mr. W.
H. of the Sonnets.  Perhaps Shakespeare's young friend was the son of the player upon the virginals?
It was at least something to have discovered that Will Hews was an Elizabethan name.  Indeed
the name Hews seemed to have been closely connected with music and the stage.  The first English
actress was the lovely Margaret Hews, whom Prince Rupert so madly loved.  What more probable
than that between her and Lord Essex's musician had come the boy-actor of Shakespeare's plays?
But the proofs, the links-- where were they?  Alas! I could not find them.  It seemed to me
that I was always on the brink of absolute verification, but that I could never really attain
to it.

From Willie Hughes's life I soon passed to thoughts of his death.  I used to wonder what had
been his end.

Perhaps he had been one of those English actors who in 1604 went across sea to Germany and
played before the great Duke Henry Julius of Brunswick, himself a dramatist of no mean order,
and at the Court of that strange Elector of Brandenburg, who was so enamoured of beauty that
he was said to have bought for his weight in amber the young son of a travelling Greek merchant,
and to have given pageants in honour of his slave all through that dreadful famine year of
1606-7, when the people died of hunger in the very streets of the town, and for the space of
seven months there was no rain.  We know at any rate that Romeo and Juliet was brought out
at Dresden in 1613, along with Hamlet and King Lear, and it was surely to none other than Willie
Hughes that in 1615 the death-mask of Shakespeare was brought by the hand of one of the suite
of the English ambassador, pale token of the passing away of the great poet who had so dearly
loved him.  Indeed there would have been something peculiarly fitting in the idea that the
boy-actor, whose beauty had been so vital an element in the realism and romance of Shakespeare's
art, should have been the first to have brought to Germany the seed of the new culture, and
was in his way the precursor of that Aufklarung or Illumination of the eighteenth century,
that splendid movement which, though begun by Lessing and Herder, and brought to its full and
perfect issue by Goethe, was in no small part helped on by another actor--Friedrich Schroeder--who
awoke the popular consciousness, and by means of the feigned passions and mimetic methods of
the stage showed the intimate, the vital, connection between life and literature.  If this
was so--and there was certainly no evidence against it--it was not improbable that Willie Hughes
was one of those English comedians (mimae quidam ex Britannia, as the old chronicle calls them),
who were slain at Nuremberg in a sudden uprising of the people, and were secretly buried in
a little vineyard outside the city by some young men 'who had found pleasure in their performances,
and of whom some had sought to be instructed in the mysteries of the new art.'  Certainly no
more fitting place could there be for him to whom Shakespeare said, 'thou art all my art,'
than this little vineyard outside the city walls.  For was it not from the sorrows of Dionysos
that Tragedy sprang?  Was not the light laughter of Comedy, with its careless merriment and
quick replies, first heard on the lips of the Sicilian vine-dressers?  Nay, did not the purple
and red stain of the wine-froth on face and limbs give the first suggestion of the charm and
fascination of disguise--the desire for self-concealment, the sense of the value of objectivity
thus showing itself in the rude beginnings of the art?  At any rate, wherever he lay--whether
in the little vineyard at the gate of the Gothic town, or in some dim London churchyard amidst
the roar and bustle of our great city-- no gorgeous monument marked his resting-place.  His
true tomb, as Shakespeare saw, was the poet's verse, his true monument the permanence of the
drama.  So had it been with others whose beauty had given a new creative impulse to their age.
The ivory body of the Bithynian slave rots in the green ooze of the Nile, and on the yellow
hills of the Cerameicus is strewn the dust of the young Athenian; but Antinous lives in sculpture,
and Charmides in philosophy.

CHAPTER III

After three weeks had elapsed, I determined to make a strong appeal to Erskine to do justice
to the memory of Cyril Graham, and to give to the world his marvellous interpretation of the
Sonnets--the only interpretation that thoroughly explained the problem.  I have not any copy
of my letter, I regret to say, nor have I been able to lay my hand upon the original; but I
remember that I went over the whole ground, and covered sheets of paper with passionate reiteration
of the arguments and proofs that my study had suggested to me.  It seemed to me that I was
not merely restoring Cyril Graham to his proper place in literary history, but rescuing the
honour of Shakespeare himself from the tedious memory of a commonplace intrigue.  I put into
the letter all my enthusiasm.  I put into the letter all my faith.

No sooner, in fact, had I sent it off than a curious reaction came over me.  It seemed to me
that I had given away my capacity for belief in the Willie Hughes theory of the Sonnets, that
something had gone out of me, as it were, and that I was perfectly indifferent to the whole
subject.  What was it that had happened?  It is difficult to say.  Perhaps, by finding perfect
expression for a passion, I had exhausted the passion itself.  Emotional forces, like the forces
of physical life, have their positive limitations. Perhaps the mere effort to convert any one
to a theory involves some form of renunciation of the power of credence.  Perhaps I was simply
tired of the whole thing, and, my enthusiasm having burnt out, my reason was left to its own
unimpassioned judgment.  However it came about, and I cannot pretend to explain it, there was
no doubt that Willie Hughes suddenly became to me a mere myth, an idle dream, the boyish fancy
of a young man who, like most ardent spirits, was more anxious to convince others than to be
himself convinced.

As I had said some very unjust and bitter things to Erskine in my letter, I determined to go
and see him at once, and to make my apologies to him for my behaviour.  Accordingly, the next
morning I drove down to Birdcage Walk, and found Erskine sitting in his library, with the forged
picture of Willie Hughes in front of him.

'My dear Erskine!' I cried, 'I have come to apologise to you.'

'To apologise to me?' he said.  'What for?'

'For my letter,' I answered.

'You have nothing to regret in your letter,' he said.  'On the contrary, you have done me the
greatest service in your power.  You have shown me that Cyril Graham's theory is perfectly sound.'

'You don't mean to say that you believe in Willie Hughes?' I exclaimed.

'Why not?' he rejoined.  'You have proved the thing to me.  Do you think I cannot estimate
the value of evidence?'

'But there is no evidence at all,' I groaned, sinking into a chair. 'When I wrote to you I
was under the influence of a perfectly silly enthusiasm.  I had been touched by the story of
Cyril Graham's death, fascinated by his romantic theory, enthralled by the wonder and novelty
of the whole idea.  I see now that the theory is based on a delusion.  The only evidence for
the existence of Willie Hughes is that picture in front of you, and the picture is a forgery.
Don't be carried away by mere sentiment in this matter.  Whatever romance may have to say about
the Willie Hughes theory, reason is dead against it.'

'I don't understand you,' said Erskine, looking at me in amazement. 'Why, you yourself have
convinced me by your letter that Willie Hughes is an absolute reality.  Why have you changed
your mind?  Or is all that you have been saying to me merely a joke?'

'I cannot explain it to you,' I rejoined, 'but I see now that there is really nothing to be
said in favour of Cyril Graham's interpretation.  The Sonnets are addressed to Lord Pembroke.
For heaven's sake don't waste your time in a foolish attempt to discover a young Elizabethan
actor who never existed, and to make a phantom puppet the centre of the great cycle of Shakespeare's
Sonnets.'

'I see that you don't understand the theory,' he replied.

