As there is little in the books of anecdotes of animals concerning pigs, I venture to give
an account of a learned individual of this species whose performances I had an opportunity
of observing in much detail. The creature, an ordinary specimen about three years old, had
been trained by a peasant in the mountain district of Virginia who made his living by instructing
animals for show purposes. He stated that in selecting pigs for education it was his practice
to choose those characterized by a considerable width between the eyes and whose skulls projected
in this part of their periphery to a more than usual degree. He said that from many experiments
he was satisfied that there was a very great difference in the capacity of the animals to receive
training, and that the above-mentioned indices afforded him sufficient guidance in his choice.

In the exhibition about to be described there were but three persons present, myself, another
spectator, and the showman. A score of cards were placed upon the ground, each bearing a numeral
or the name of some distinguished person. These cards were in perfect disorder. I was allowed,
indeed, repeatedly to change their position and to mix them up as I pleased. The pig was then
told to pick out the name of Abraham Lincoln and bring it to his master. This he readily did.
He was asked in what year Lincoln was assassinated. He slowly but without correction brought
one by one the appropriate numerals and put them on the ground in due order. Half a dozen other
questions concerning names and dates were answered in a similar way. Each success was rewarded
with a grain of corn, and for his failures the creature received a reasonable drubbing. It
was evident that the animal had to consider in making his choice of the cards. At times he
was evidently much puzzled and would indicate his perplexity by squealing.

It seemed clear that the master of this learned pig did not guide the movements of the animal
by other indications than words. The questions, in some cases, had to be reiterated in a loud
voice in order to insure attention. Several times during the performance the pig rebelled,
broke from the tent, and was with difficulty recaptured. The creature disliked this task in
the manner of a lazy school-boy, and at the end of an hour of exercises seemed utterly overcome
by his labor. He ran into the box where he was ordinarily confined, and when dragged forth,
neither rewards nor punishments would quicken him to further work.

The above-described exhibition made it plain to me that the pig can be taught to understand
a certain amount of human speech and to associate memories with phrases substantially as we
do ourselves. It is perfectly clear that the performance which I witnessed was not a mere routine
action, for I had a number of questions asked over again so as to make it sure that the creature
acted with reference to each separate inquiry. The behavior of the animal during the performance
seemed clearly to indicate mental effort and not mere automatic memory. His attitude when trying
to determine which of two cards to take distinctly showed that he was intently viewing the
figures and endeavoring to come to a decision. I am aware it has been suggested that learned
pigs discriminate between the cards by peculiarities of odor which have been given to these
bits of paper. I sought carefully to find if such was the case, and though I have a very keen
sense of smell I found nothing which led me to suspect that this device was used. Even if such
were the case, the rationality of the animal's action would be none the less clear. The showman
assured me that he never used any such means in training pigs. He seemed, indeed, to treat
the suggestion with contempt.

Although experiments in the training of pigs show that they have rather remarkable intellectual
capacities, the most human feature in their mental organization is found in the keen sympathy
which they exhibit with the sufferings of their own kind and the willingness with which they
encounter danger in protecting their comrades. It usually requires close observation for the
naturalist to determine the existence of this motive among the other wild or domesticated mammals.
In fact, the traces of it are very slight indeed, and are generally to be attributed to the
care of parents for offspring or of the males for their harem--a disposition which, though
akin to the defence of the kind, is nevertheless of a special and peculiar nature. Even among
our domestic dogs, whose sympathies have been developed in a remarkable degree and who will
sacrifice their lives to defend or rescue the human beings with whom they are familiar, there
appears to be but little disposition to support members of their species who may be assailed.
With pigs, however, as is well known to all those who have observed their habits, the characteristic
cry of distress of their fellows proves very exciting and stimulates all the adults, both male
and female, who hear it to hasten in defence of their kinsmen. It is a noteworthy fact that
while most other animals when in danger utter no distinct or continuous cry, the pig gives
voice in a vociferous and insistent manner, as if he had a right to expect the sympathy and
help of his species. The cry goes with the custom of defence which in this species has attained
a better foundation in the sympathetic motives than in any other mammal below the level of man.

It is perhaps due to their relatively high intellectual organization that the excessively domesticated
pigs are liable to suffer from attacks of mania. This is most commonly exhibited by the sows,
which at times will destroy their young shortly after they are born. The sight of their progeny
seems to infuriate them in a curious manner. One sow which I owned killed three successive
litters; another fine animal of the Berkshire breed, a very amiable, indeed affectionate, creature,
was carefully watched at the time she first bore young, precautions being taken to prevent
her from harming them; she would willingly allow them to suckle, provided she did not see them,
but the moment she laid her eyes upon them she was seized with the strange fury.

Although this singular perversion of the natural instincts of maternity sometimes occurs among
the pigs which are allowed to roam together in herds, it seems to be far more common in those
conditions where the animals are confined in pens without contact with their kind, and where
they have no chance to recognize the young as members of their species or to acquire that interest
in them which they would gain in the society of the herd. It is also clear that this maniacal
habit is inherited; according to my observation it is common among the Berkshire, and relatively
rare in other less specialized varieties.

The intelligence of the pig is also shown in the readiness with which the creature changes
its habits to meet varied environments. Thus the pigs which range the woods in the western
and southern parts of the United States have learned to catch the crawfish which abounds in
the shallow streams in those parts of this country. They will wade up a brook, turning over
the stones and driftwood as they go, catching with a quick movement the crustaceans which they
have thus dislodged from their cover. Along the shores of the Bay of Fundy, the pigs, accustomed
to follow the tide out, picking the chance food which is thus exposed to them, have learned
carefully to avoid the risk of being caught by the returning waters. With the first splash
of the turning tide they hasten inshore until they have attained safe ground.

One of the best evidences of the mental state of these animals is found in their actions when
assailed by dogs or other beasts of prey. Pigs, though wary and sensible of danger, seem exempt
from the extreme fear which leads to panic, and fight, even before being brought to bay by
long chasing, in a discreet and valiant manner. Where a number of them are attacked by dogs
or other enemies, they will form a circle with their heads out, each supporting the other in
such a manner that the ring cannot readily be broken. Their thick-skinned forequarters and
stout tusks provide them with excellent instruments with which to resist an assault.

The sagacity of the pigs is probably, in part at least, to be attributed to the fact that in
their native state they are communal animals, all the species of their family being accustomed
to live gregariously, so that for ages they have had the training which every social organization,
however simple, affords. They are, moreover, omnivorous feeders, accustomed to subsist on a
great variety of food--a habit which seems in all cases to promote the development of the intelligence
in animals.

Although the pigs by their nature afforded the best opportunity for developing an intellectual
animal which has come to us through our domesticated creatures, no effort whatever has been
made by selection to develop the latent mental capacities of this species. It is perhaps the
only form of those which man has subjugated which by his treatment he tends to degrade. In
the time to come, when men will be held to a better accountability for the treatment of their
captives, the condition of these animals will afford a fair field for the reformer's care.

The geologist who is acquainted with the mammalian life of the Middle Tertiary period readily
notes the fact that the variety in genera and species appears to be much greater than it is
at the present time. A great number of forms, differing somewhat widely from those now in existence,
then abounded in the Americas and the Old World. It may at first sight seem unfortunate that
man did not have the chance to essay his domesticative arts on that older and apparently richer
life. A closer examination, however, leads us to see that the species of that time, though
more numerous than those of the present, were on the whole less fitted for our use than the
fewer but more completely differentiated kinds with which we have had to deal. The multitude
of kinds which we find in the Mesozoic period indicates that the life was in a state more experimental
than that to which it has attained. A host of forms on their way towards the specialization
which has now been attained have been removed from the sphere, in the manner of a scaffolding
from a completed structure. That which has been left remains because it has successfully accomplished
the task of reconciliation with environment, or, in simpler phrase, because it has learned
to do things which were useful and profitable in a more perfect manner.

As an illustration of the fact that the animals of to-day are better fitted to be the help-meets
of man than were their ancestors of an earlier time, we may note the state of the horse at
the time when that genus was undergoing its development in the region about the upper waters
of the Missouri. As may be imagined, the long and difficult passage from the five-toed to the
single-toed form was slowly accomplished, and to its doing went a great many temporary forms,
which served, we may say, as stepping-stones for the ongoing. So far as we can judge, these
intermediate forms were small, rather frail creatures, which probably could not have been made
to serve any purpose useful to man. It was not until the mechanical system of the large single
toe with the wonderfully developed nail, which makes up the foot and hoof of the horse, had
been attained, that the creature becomes fit for the wonderful work we have persuaded him to
do in our civilization.

A comparison of the skulls of the Tertiary mammals and those of our own day indicates that
in certain of the important series, and presumably in them all, the brain has increased in
size from the earlier to the later times. This increase in brain capacity has doubtless been
attended by a decided gain in the measure of intelligence, a gain which has doubtless served
to make the modern representatives of the series fitter for man's use than their ancestors
were. For, while the number of our very useful domesticated forms may seem at first sight to
be dull of wit, none of them are really low in the intellectual scale as we apply it to the
brute; in fact, a considerable measure of intelligence is absolutely required as a condition
for true subjugation. This is seen by the fact that nothing like a real adoption into our social
system has ever been accomplished except with a few of the higher orders of mammals and birds,
species which have an intellectual capacity that we recognize as akin to our own. Thus, so
far as we can see, man's appearance on this stage was, so far as it relates to the possibility
of companionship with the lower life, exceedingly well timed. He came at a period when the
life was ready to give him and to receive from him a large measure of help. If his advent had
been much earlier, he might have had less trouble in his contests with the larger carnivora;
but if there had been a lack of beasts to obey his will, it is doubtful whether he could himself
have won his way above that primitive life.

It is an interesting fact that about all the work of domestication which has been done by man
has been accomplished by the peoples of Asia and mainly by the Aryan race. The American Indians
tamed the llama and alpaca and a few species of native plants; even where their habits were
prevailingly sedentary they domesticated no birds. It was left for Europeans to make use of
the wild turkey. Our primitive people had the same chance to tame ducks and geese as the folk
of the Old World. They appear, however, to have lacked all capacity for such endeavors. The
same lack of disposition to capture and tame wild creatures is noticeable among the characteristic
peoples of Africa; all of which serves to show that the domesticating art, at least as applied
to animals, is peculiar to the higher-grade folk of the Old World.

Of all the birds which have been domesticated, our common barnyard fowl has been by far the
most useful to man. It has become in a way interwoven with his life to a degree found only
in a few of our barnyard animals. Next after the pigeons and the pigs it has been most deeply
impressed by the breeder's art. The wild species whence it sprang is a small creature, laying
but few eggs and with but a slight tendency to accumulate fat. From this parent stock varieties
have been bred which attain in some cases to eight or ten times the weight of the ancient form.
They have, moreover, lost the fierce combative spirit which characterizes their ancestors and
which by selection has been preserved and intensified in our breeds of game-cocks.

It is an interesting fact that our barnyard fowl is the only species of a large family of birds
which has been truly domesticated. The kindred pheasants and grouse, though abounding in the
Old World and the New, and much disposed to abide about the cultivated fields, appear to be
rather untamable. However well cared for, the wilderness motive seems never to have been eradicated.
The domesticability of the cock, as is that of most other wild animals, is doubtless to be
explained by the conditions of the life in which it has dwelt for ages before it was introduced
to the society of man. In its wild state this bird had already to a great extent lost the power
of flight, using its wings only for escaping from four-footed pursuers or to attain the branches
of the trees in which it sought safety in the night time. With this measure of loss of the
flying power, the creature abandoned the habit of ranging over a wide field, and thus was made
more fit for domestication. Moreover, in their wilderness life these birds dwelt in more established
communities than their kindred species. The most of these wild forms do not keep together through
the year, but scatter after the young are able to shift for themselves. The Indian species
of Gallus, however, from which our cocks and hens descend, have organized their life so that
the individuals remain associate in a friendly way throughout the year.

A part of the fitness of this creature to cast in its lot with man arises from the fact that
they have very sympathetic natures. This is shown by the way in which the cocks will fight
for their hens, even against their dreaded enemies, the hawks; and by the manner in which the
mother, overcoming her natural fears, will do battle for her brood. It is shown also in the
curious mingling of gallantry and kindliness with which the cock will call a hen to give her
some choice bit of food which he has captured. As he grows older and becomes Philistinish,
we may note that, after the manner of unfeathered bipeds, he is often disposed to indulge his
selfishness, and summons his flock only to see him devour the morsel. Even in old age, however,
the males of the varieties which are nearest the parent stock maintain their helpful motives
and will struggle with infirmity to beat off a bird of prey.

The sympathetic and affectionate quality of our barnyard fowl is perhaps best indicated by
the singular variety and denotative value of their various calls and cries. Those who know
these birds well will find no difficulty in recognizing about a score of diverse sounds, each
of which indicates a particular turn of their mind. Almost all of these different notes have
slight variations of expression which fit particular situations. Thus the crow of these birds,
which may seem to the unobservant a very unvaried sound, discloses to those who have lovingly
studied them at least half a dozen distinct modifications. In the fledgling male who just begins
to feel the spirit of his kind, and who goes through his performance in the adolescent way,
it is a cheap and often pitiful call. From the open roost in the trees, where the birds are
gradually aroused by the slow-coming day, we can often hear the note of the half-awakened cock,
as full of the sense of slumber as the speech of a sleeping man. As the creature gradually
awakens, his cry becomes more resonant until it has the true morning ring. Brave as is this
note of the full day, it is not to be compared with the crowing of a game-cock, the most splendid
braggart sound of all the animal world.

The really sympathetic notes of our fowls are uttered in their ordinary intercourse. Here the
gradations of sounds have a range and fineness which, it seems to me, we can observe in no
other creature below the level of man. Attention, astonishment, fear, commonplace distress,
exultation, and agony are all set forth with cries which we, in a way, recognize as appropriate.
Although some of these sounds relate to the larger experiences of the creatures, the most instructive
of them are uttered in their ordinary intercourse, where they clearly maintain a kind of consensus
in the flock by unending small bits of emotional speech, the notes being shaded in a wonderful
way. These fine variations of utterance can sometimes be observed to be related to slight differences
of situation. Thus the cackle of a hen when she leaves her nest after laying an egg is quite
different from that which is made by the same hen when, during the period of incubation, she
quits her eggs in search of food and water.

It is not unlikely that the eminent domesticability of our common fowls is in a way associated
with the singular variety of their notes. This variety indicates that the creatures are in
constant and effective communication with one another; in a word, they are very sympathetic.
With this intellectual helpfulness naturally goes the love of the domicile and a disposition
to submit to control.

So nice and well understood are the differences between the sounds which these birds give forth,
and so well are their notes appreciated by their companions, that the creatures may well be
said to have a language. Though it probably conveys only emotions and not distinct thoughts,
it still must be regarded as a certain kind of speech. The modes of expression indicate that
in this creature, as in the other feathered forms, the intellectual life consists largely in
the movements inspired by the emotions. On the rational side our fowls seem weaker than many
other less interesting species. In their nesting and other habits there are no evidences of
constructive ingenuity; and in all my observations on them I have never seen any evidence which
showed either considerable powers of memory or a capacity to act in any complicated way with
reference to an end. It is evident, however, that they make a very good classification of the
world about them. They have, for the limited field over which they roam, a keen topographic
sense; they never are lost, and this in connection with their sympathetic homing instinct prevents
them from wandering from their accustomed places to take up again with a wilderness life.

In their adhesion to domestication our common fowls differ in a remarkable way from all other
of our captive animals except the dog, and these birds are even more ineradicably attached
to man than their older companion. While the dog will sometimes become half wild, or, as we
may phrase it, undomiciled, fowls seem incapable of maintaining themselves apart from human
care. In much ranging of the wilderness I have never found one of these creatures more than
a thousand feet away from a human habitation. When we consider how common must be the chances
of their going astray, and how easy it is in many parts of the country, as in our Southern
States, for them to obtain in the wilderness food throughout the year, the fact that they never
go wild is indeed remarkable. It can only be explained by the great development of the homing
instinct which man has brought about in their sympathetic souls.

Although our unnatural process of breeding has done much to degrade the original beauty of
the cocks and hens, destroying the delicate coloration of the feathers as well as the admirable
blending and contrasts of their pristine hues, it seems likely that the effect on the physical
and mental development as a whole has not been unfavorable. Though less courageous, they are
stronger creatures than in their wild state; they are clearly more fecund; they are gentler
natured; and, so far as I have been able to compare the high-bred with the primitive forms,
their range of expression through the voice has been much increased, a feature which may be
noted in other domesticated species of birds, as, for instance, in the canaries. The most remarkable
alteration which has been brought about in the minds of these creatures consists in the very
great diminution in the combative motive of the males. In the wild forms, as well as in the
kindred variety of the game-cock, this impulse to battle attains a truly phenomenal development,
the like of which is probably not to be found in any other creature. The male birds begin their
warfare before they are more than half grown, and in their adult state will attack anything
which they can conceive to be an enemy. They will, with slight provocation, assail any of the
other domesticated species of birds, and even the lesser mammals, such as the dogs and cats.
They will fight their own image in a looking-glass. I have had game-cocks attack my hand when
it was held near the ground and given an up-and-down movement in imitation of their antagonist's
head.

I once reared a game-cock by hand, keeping him secluded from his kind until he was adult. I
then placed him in a large collection of barnyard fowl where there were half a dozen mongrel
cocks, a drake of the muscovy variety, several ganders, and two turkey-gobblers. Immediately
and in rapid succession he settled his accounts with the males of his own kind. He shortly
overcame the drake and the ganders. He then devoted what was left of his forces to battles
with the turkeys. Here he found himself in great difficulty, for the reason that these great
birds would seize him by the head and lift his body off the ground. However, he soon learned
an ingenious trick which protected him from this danger. When gathering breath in the intervals
between his assaults, he would hover himself between his antagonist's legs, keeping step with
the awkward creature in its efforts to get away from him. In a few days he wore out these doughty
foemen and remained the battered master of the field.

Although the indomitable valor of the game-cock may be in some measure due to the selection
which the breeder has applied to the variety, there can be no question that it is essentially
natural to the species and is the result of an age-long habit which in the native wilds of
the creature did much to insure its safety. The antiquity of the state of mind may be judged
by the perfection to which the spurs have attained and the remarkably skilful and definite
way in which the creatures use them. The spur, which has arisen from the development of the
scales and underlying bone of the bird's leg, is a singularly perfect structure, the finish
of which cannot be judged in the degraded form in which it is found in our ordinary barnyard
species. Although in its construction this weapon is admirably devised, it is placed in a position
where only a remarkably well-addressed movement can give effect to its blow. Those who have
watched game-cocks in combat have had a chance to see the vaults by which the creature, partly
turning in the air, is able to throw the spur in such a manner that it shares the impulse of
the body when it strikes the antagonist. This peculiar craft has been in good part lost among
our common varieties. Their spiritless contests differ as much from those of the game-birds
as do the fist fights of untrained men from the contests of skilled pugilists.

Although to persons unaccustomed to the spectacle the combats between game-birds may seem disgusting,
almost every one must admire the valor, grace, and address which such scenes exhibit. Except
where the brutal custom of putting steel points on the spurs prevails, the birds rarely receive
fatal wounds. The defeated cock is soon brought to confess his inferiority and takes himself
away. At no other time in the life of these birds does their organic beauty appear to such
advantage as when they are struggling with each other. Then alone do we perceive the singular
efficiency of their bodies and the quick as well as appropriate action of their instincts.
They set themselves against each other in attitudes as well chosen and as peculiar as those
of a well-trained fencer. Before the assault they often go through a singular performance,
which consists in picking up bits of twigs or pebbles. These they cast into the air, an unmeaning
movement which may be compared to the like meaningless though similarly graceful salute with
which swordsmen preface their contests. Then, with their legs flexed so that they may be ready
for the spring, and with the rather stiff feathers about the neck erected so as to serve as
a shield, they creep toward each other until they are separated by the distance appropriate
for the spring. When fairly placed for battle they begin a system of fence which is intended
to provoke the enemy to an untimely assault. The art of the game appears to consist in persuading
the adversary to venture an attack where his force will be spent in the air, so that a blow
can be given him before he has time to recover position. The issue depends much on the endurance
of the birds. Their movements require so much energy that one of them is apt to become exhausted
before the other is quite spent. In rare cases, only one of which has been seen by me, a weary
bird will feign death for a minute or so and thus obtain new strength with which to renew the
combat, profiting also by the confusion which he will bring upon his adversary by his sudden
revival.

Although the combatant motive which we find in the males among our barnyard fowls has doubtless
been developed through their combats with each other, the valiant spirit which has come from
it often leads the creatures to attack the enemies of their flock. I have seen a nimble game-cock
strike a hawk which was pouncing to its prey, delivering the blow some feet above the surface
of the ground, and this so effectively that the marauder was driven away in a sorely hurt condition.
I have seen males of the game variety attack a number of other larger animals which in any
way threatened their charges.

Although our barnyard fowl are almost the only ground birds which have ever been brought to
a state of perfect domestication, there are several other species of the same group which have
been taught in a measure to adhere to man. Of these perhaps the longest in domestication is
the peafowl. This creature, though it has edible, indeed we may say savory flesh, has retained
its small place in civilization solely on account of its extraordinary beauty. For its size
it is doubtless the most beautiful of animals, its plumage, especially the magnificent display
of the tail, exceeding that of any other natural object. There are other birds of small size
which vie with the peacock in the details of ornamentation. Those jewels among the feathered
tribes, the humming-birds, have a more delicate beauty. The birds-of-paradise and the lyre-birds
have a grace in the attitudes of particular feathers which is unequalled; but for splendor
none of them approach the peacock in his best estate.

The peacock is a native of Southern Asia, a realm in fact in which the species of the group
attain an uncommonly rich development. The creature appears to have been domesticated some
thousands of years ago, but has undergone no considerable changes in its experience with man.
It has in truth not been completely tamed. It does not willingly remain near the dwellings
of man, but prefers to abide apart, only resorting to the home when in need of food. It is
very intolerant of the other barnyard creatures, and often becomes possessed of a kind of mania
for slaying their young, not for food but from pure spirit of mischief.

Intellectually speaking, the peacocks are much below the cocks and hens; although they flock
together, their sympathies do not seem quick; their cries and calls do not number a fifth part
of those which we hear from our chickens, and their notes are prevailingly very discordant.
Their cry of defiance, answering to the crow of the cock, is one of the rudest and least sympathetic
sounds which is heard among the birds. Its only merit is that it can be heard very far. It
is readily audible at the distance of a mile when it breaks the stillness of a summer night.
At present the bird seems out of favor. At best it is a beautiful but annoying ornament to
pleasure-grounds. It is likely, indeed, that it may in time become limited to its native wildernesses
and to zoölogical gardens.

From Africa we have derived one rather uncommon tenant of our barnyards and fields, the guinea-hen.
This creature, though of convenient size, hardy, and commendable from the number of eggs it
lays, has never won a large place in the esteem of our rural people, and is now not much kept,
except in some parts of the Southern States of this country. The difficulty with this creature,
as with the peacock, is that it is not truly domesticated; though it will not betake itself
altogether to the woods, it prefers to maintain a half-wild habit. It will not, if it can possibly
avoid it, lay its eggs in any place where they are likely to be found by man. Moreover, their
rude and little-modulated cries are in the summer season almost incessant, and the din which
a considerable flock can produce is exceedingly vexatious. They thus do not fit the needs or
comfort of man to the degree which is likely to give them a permanent place among his associates.

The last considerable addition to our barnyards has come to us in the form of the turkey. This
species has the peculiar distinction of being the only animal form of definite use to man over
a wide field which has been contributed from the life of the New World. Although the creature
was much hunted by our North American Indians, and is of a type which lends itself to domestication,
it does not appear to have become a companion of man until it was taken from the West India
Islands to Europe shortly after the discovery of this country. Thence the domesticated form
appears to have been returned to this country, where it has been a favorite in a measure unknown
in the Old World. Ornithologists deem the Cuban turkey, whence our tame form came, to be specifically
distinct from those which are found on the mainland of this continent. Although these kinds
are distinguishable by plumage, they are probably only varieties of a common species. This
is indicated by the fact that our tame flocks readily intermingle with their wild kindred.

The ease with which the turkey becomes domesticated is remarkable. In this regard the creature
may be compared to our cocks and hens. In both cases the tamableness is doubtless to be explained
by the fact that the primitive forms dwelt in permanent association, the movements of which
were in a way controlled by the adult males, and by the fact that the forms had abandoned the
use of wings for wide-ranging flight. The change which has been brought about in the turkeys
with their adoption into the human association has been slight. No distinct varieties of breeds
have been originated, though here and there the observer may note slight local variations in
the coloration of the plumage, which are probably due to varying admixtures with the wild forms
of our forests. Thus in Kentucky and other parts of the South, where the opportunities for
the intermingling of blood of the tame and wild forms are frequent, the domesticated creatures
often resemble so nearly the wilderness forms that even the wary hunter may make mistakes as
to whether the bird he sights be fair game or not. Unless carefully watched, a drove of these
creatures on the border of the wilderness is apt gradually to return to the wild state, the
three or four centuries of life about the home of man not having been sufficient to do away
with their ancient love of freedom.

Among the English folk of North America the turkeys found a large place as an element of the
food-supply. It has become curiously associated with the Puritan festival of Thanksgiving,
an institution which has spread throughout the United States and which has in a way taken the
place of the harvest-home festivities of the Old World and bygone ages. It is probable that
the relation of this bird to our national festivities has done much to keep it in use in this
country. It is a well-recognized fact that it is costly to keep and that the eggs are not desirable
for culinary use. The species requires a wide range. It does not do well in the confined conditions
in which cocks and hens can readily be maintained. It therefore is not likely to be kept in
any region where the agriculture is of a high grade. It is best suited to farms where there
are considerable areas of half-wild pastures.

Although the turkey is a truly gregarious form, its mental endowments are of a lower grade
than those of most social birds. Their calls are few in number and have little of that conversational
quality which we note in those of our ordinary barnyard fowls. Although the males contest the
field with each other by personal combats, they are not very valiant, the creatures trusting
for favor with the females rather to the parade of their plumage and the pomp of their carriage
than to the wager of battle. In the matter of show they are, however, very effective, being
surpassed only by the peacock in the splendor of their attire. In their domesticated state
they lose much of the beauty which they have in the wilderness, as they do their pristine dimensions.
Those who have hunted our wild species are likely to remember scenes where in some forest glade
they have beheld a gobbler displaying his graces to an admiring harem. As he struts about with
his tail feathers erect and his neck arched back, now and then pausing to utter an exultant
gobble, the spectacle is one of the most amusing displays of animal pride which the naturalist
has a chance to behold.

Recent experiments in ostrich farming seem to indicate that we are on the eve of introducing
into our "happy family" the noblest remaining member of that group of great birds which characterized
the life of the later geological periods. As yet the efforts in taming ostriches are too new
for us to tell just what the effect of man's skill on the development of this creature will
be. It is evident, however, that the creature can be won from its wilderness state, at least
to something like the imperfect companionship with man which has been attained by the guinea-fowls
and turkeys. All we know of the variations in plumage of birds indicates that the breeder's
art may bring about great changes in the highly decorative feathers for which this bird is
to be reared. It is also probable that with the better food which domestic conditions imply,
this wanderer of the desert may be brought to attain a very much greater size than it wins
in the hard life of its native land. If the form should prove as plastic as that of our ordinary
barnyard species, we may indeed succeed in developing a variety approaching in dimensions the
gigantic moa of New Zealand, or the æpyornis of Madagascar, those magnificent creatures of
the past which passed away just before their native lands were known to our race. The variations
in size of the wild ostrich appear to indicate that this interesting result may be attainable.

Next after the cocks and hens the most important birds of economic value have come from the
water fowl. In this field there are great opportunities for domestication, only a few of which
have been adequately used. The aquatic birds, save for the fact that they are in all cases
inspired with a more or less strong migratory humor, lend themselves to the shaping hand of
man more readily than most other forms. These creatures have the habit of association in a
much more perfect way than our ground birds. They normally dwelt in rather close order and
in relations which are necessarily very sympathetic. Whoever has watched the flight of wild
geese must have remarked the beautiful way in which they arrange at once for close companionship
and for safety in the violent movements which impel their heavy bodies at high speed through
the air. In the order of their flight the alignment is more perfect than in the march of trained
soldiers. Each bird keeps as near to his neighbor as possible; but manages always to preserve
the interval which will insure against a collision of the strong and swift-moving wings, an
accident which might well disable them for flight. I have repeatedly undertaken to confound
their motion by firing a rifle bullet at the head of the moving wedge. Although the sound of
the projectile, if well directed, will disturb their processional order, it never brings confusion.
The startled birds sink down or rise above the plane of the air in which their comrades are
moving, but they never strike against them.

The admirable sense of interval which the wild birds exhibit in their flight is to be seen
also when they move over the surface of the water, where the fleet of living forms is always
so arranged that each individual does not interfere with its neighbor. I recall with much pleasure
an occasion when, from a ship becalmed in a thick fog off the southern shore of Labrador, within
sound of the breakers, I undertook to find something about the lay of the land and the chance
of harborage by paddling in a small boat toward the shore. I had hardly lost sight of the ship
when my boat glided into an assemblage of eider ducks, where the mothers, with their fledgling
young, were lazily swimming to and fro, as if to practise the ducklings in the art of swimming.
Each brood appeared to have its own space of water, and between each of the chicks there was
likewise a less but equally well measured interval. The same features of orderly association,
which I have just noted in the swimming and flying of these wild birds, may be seen in a somewhat
degraded state in our domesticated varieties of the group. They all indicate in these forms
a keen sense of their neighbors and a habit of association based upon sympathetic emotions.

The sympathetic quality of our water fowl, at least in that part of the emotion which leads
them to be concerned with the afflictions of their species, appears to be more distinct than
in the case of our ordinary barnyard fowl. Geese, as is well known, will make common cause
against an intruder from whom harm to the flock may be expected. Their simultaneous din when
anything occurs to arouse their enmity is commemorated in the ancient myth concerning the aid
which they gave in the defence of the walls of Rome. There are anecdotes apparently well attested
where water fowl have borne away a wounded comrade which had fallen before the huntsman's fowling-piece.
In Smiles's "Life of Edwards" there is an often-quoted story which appears to be trustworthy
and sufficiently illustrates this point. A hunter, having shot one of a flock of terns, which
fell wounded into the water near the shore, waded in to seize it. Suddenly two of the terns
came to their wounded companion, seized him by either wing, and bore him toward the open sea.
When these two helpers were weary, the sufferer was lowered into the water, and, in turn, seized
by two other birds which were fresh for the labor. Working in succession, these birds carried
their companion to a rock some distance from the shore. When the hunter endeavored to approach
the rock, yet others of the species seized the cripple and bore him far beyond reach.

Although too much value must not be given to the numerous anecdotes concerning the sagacity
of water fowl, the great mass of these stories, as compared with the poverty of the anecdotes
concerning the better-known barnyard creatures, seems to establish the fact that their intelligence
is much greater than that of the land birds. This superiority can probably be attributed to
the fact that their life requires much more definite adaptation of means to ends than in the
simpler conditions which are met by the forms which dwell in the fields. The circumstances
of their life are something like those of the seals among mammals. They have to do with the
conditions of the air, the land, and the water; and as they generally undertake long migrations,
the range of the things they have to accommodate themselves to is great, and the effect of
their labor is decidedly educative.

As yet, from the great number of species of water fowl man has really domesticated but two
characteristic groups, the species of geese and of ducks. Swans have been brought to a state
where they tolerate the presence of man, though they rarely establish any really intimate relations
with him. Some other species, as, for instance, the grebe, have been taught to dwell about
the homes of man, accepting food from his hands. It is likely that more of these water fowl
would have come into human associations were it not for the fact that they are naturally migratory,
and when, after a season of domestication, they join a passing flock, they never return to
the place where they have been kept.

The swan, like the peacock, has been bred for ornament rather than for use. In fact, the bird
has no other merit than its exceeding grace. We cannot believe that much pains was ever taken
with this creature to break up the migratory instincts which are common in the wild kindred
species. We have to suppose that the bird in its pristine form was without the impulse to undertake
distant journeys in the winter season, or that it abandoned ancient habits with no great difficulty.
We obtain some light on this point by noting the fact that among the migratory species it not
infrequently happens that, while the greater number of individuals undertake the annual journey,
certain of them will remain on the ground where they were born. Those which remain would be
more likely to mate with those which were like-minded than with others that journeyed afar.
In this way small local breeds might well be originated which would differ from their migratory
kindred not only in the measure of the wandering instincts, but in the capacity for flight
which their kindred preserve. There is some reason to believe that this process of selection
naturally and somewhat frequently takes place. In certain cases it may lay the foundation of
new species, or at least of distinct varieties; more commonly, however, the individuals which
have abandoned the migratory life are likely to perish from the severity of climate or the
other unfavorable conditions that their mates avoid by their wanderings.

Although many of the free-flying birds of the land are or have been kept captive because of
the pleasure which men have found from their songs, their grace, or their quaint ways, only
one of these has really been gained to domestication. In the pigeon, man has made what is on
many accounts the most remarkable of all his conquests over the wild nature about him. While
the breeder's art has led many forms, some of them on several divergent lines, far away from
their primitive estate, in no other field has it accomplished such surprising results as with
the doves. The original wild form of this group is a native of Europe and Asia, where the species
Columba livia, or rock pigeon, is still common, and whence it may be readily won anew to domestication.
It is a small, plain-colored, rather invariable and inconspicuous bird about the size of our
American dove. In its wild state it dwells in small flocks, nesting by preference in the crannies
of the cliffs, and exhibiting no striking qualities which make it seem a desirable subject
for domestication. We note, however, that even in this primitive condition the creature has
certain physical and mental qualities which have been the basis of its adoption by man as well
as of the wide changes which it has undergone at his hands.

It is a characteristic of all the doves that their young are born in a very immature state,
and for some time after they come from the egg they have to be supplied with food which has
been partly digested in the crop or upper part of the stomach of the parent. For the proper
rearing of the brood there is required the assiduous care of both parents. Therefore quite
naturally we find among these birds that the pairing habit is well developed, and as they rear
several broods each season, that the mating is for life. Although there are numbers of birds
in various orders which are accustomed to the monogamic habit, it happens that the pigeon is
the only animal which man has ever won to true domestication in which the sexes can be thus
permanently united. In the dovecote, however many birds it may contain, the breeder can be
always sure as to the parentage of the young which he is rearing. This affords an admirable
basis for the practice of his art, which is still further favored by the fact that pigeons
reproduce rapidly and the progeny are ready to mate in a few months after they come into the
world. Thus the species affords really ideal conditions for that process of selection on which
the improvement of all domesticated animals intimately depends.

Selective breeding of pigeons began in India, as the records seem to show, more than two thousand
years ago. Though other animals have been brought to domestication at much earlier times, this
appears to have been the first of them to be subjected to deliberate efforts on the part of
their masters, which were intended to bring about in a methodical way certain changes in their
forms and habits. The most curious part of this great endeavor which has been applied to breeding
pigeons is found in the fact that the ends sought have no utility, but afford satisfaction
from the point of view of pure diversion or the gratification of taste. We are well accustomed
to the action of such motives upon our flowering plants of the garden, but the pigeon is the
only animal where fancy has labored for thousands of years for its gratification. The breeders
of pigeons from remote antiquity to the present day appear to have had no definite purpose
in all their pains. They have taken the chance variations in form and habit and endeavored
to extend these sports of nature by a careful system of mating those in which the singular
features were most evident. Thus the fan-tail breed has been developed until the creatures
display their unornamental tail feathers with all the dignity with which a peacock shows his
marvellous decorations. The pouters have in some unaccountable way learned to take air into
their crop; and the habit has been developed by selection until the bird destroys all trace
of his original shapeliness, though he seems to take pride in his diseased appearance. The
tumbler, probably derived from some ancestor afflicted with a disease of an epileptic character,
manages to go through his convulsions in the air without serious consequences and apparently
with some pleasure to himself. There are over one hundred less conspicuous varieties, of which
only one deserves notice, and this for the reason that it has some possible utility to man
and is now much attended to. This is known as the carrier pigeon.

In early time, before the invention of the railway and telegraph, some ingenious breeder of
pigeons, observing the constant way in which these creatures returned to the place where they
were bred, invented the plan of using them to convey information. This service was found convenient
not only for ordinary correspondence, but was exceedingly valuable where a place was beleaguered
by an enemy. In such cases carrier pigeons could often be used to convey information across
the otherwise impassable lines. Even in modern times, as, for instance, during the last siege
of Paris, these swift and sure flying birds proved of great use in keeping up communications
between the people of the invested town and the French armies in the field. Letters in cipher,
sometimes photographed down until the characters were microscopically fine, were made into
packages of small weight in order not to impede the flight of the bird, carefully affixed to
its body, and thus sent away. Very generally these curious shipments came to the hands of those
for whom they were destined. The birds can be trusted to fly at night; they retain for a long
time the memory of their home, and spare no pains to return to it.

The homing power of the carrier pigeon appears to be a special development of a natural capacity,
as is also its swiftness and endurance in flight. Our other breeds and the wild species whence
they have all come are not disposed to undertake long journeys; they rarely, indeed, wander
far from their abiding places. Our experience with the carriers shows how readily the creatures
may be educated to perform feats which they were not accustomed to do in their wild state.
Something of the same elasticity of constitution may be observed in the bodies of our pigeons
as they have been affected by selection. Not only has the plumage been greatly altered by the
breeder's art and in pursuance of his plans, but the form and proportions of the bones have
coincidently and unintentionally been greatly changed. So considerable are these alterations
that if these creatures were submitted for dissection to a naturalist who knew nothing of the
history of the bird, he would have no hesitation in classing them as belonging not only in
different species, but as members of diverse genera.

It must be regarded as unfortunate that the experiments which have been made on pigeons have
been limited to their features of form, color, and slight peculiarities in their habits. If
the breeders had sought to modify the intellectual parts with anything like the insistence
which they have given to the development of these bodily peculiarities, we might now have a
most valuable store of knowledge as to the limitations of animal minds. The facts gained in
the breeding of the carriers show clearly that certain of the instincts of these birds can
be readily modified. There is every reason to suppose that their mental capacities in other
directions have something of the same pliability.

Although the pigeon is the only free-flying form which has been won to intimate relations with
man, there are numerous other species of these volant creatures which have been reduced to
partial domestication, though they cannot be trusted to abide with us without being more or
less completely caged. Experience has shown that by far the greater part of the arboreal birds
may be kept and will breed in captivity. From the host of these feathered creatures men have
from time to time selected species which grace their habitations by their beauty, their song,
or by the sympathetic relations which they form with their captors. Our successes in these
efforts toward domestication of these birds have been most eminent with those varieties which
in their wilderness state have a well-developed social life, which abide in families or flocks,
and have the pairing habit well affirmed. The reason for this has been already indicated. It
is due to the sympathetic motive which is developed in such communal life, and is manifested
in the friendly relations with each other which the creatures maintain. A good instance of
this is to be found in the crows and their kindred, a group of extremely sociable creatures,
which are endlessly engaged in chattering communications with each other. All these forms are
highly domesticable, and if for any reason they had proved permanently attractive to men they
would doubtless have been brought into the state of willing captives.

Although some of the free-flying or tree birds have been kept for their beauty alone, the greater
part of them have commended themselves to man because of their voices. It is hardly necessary
to tell the reader that the birds, of all animals, are most provided with means of expression
through the voice. There is hardly a species which has not a greater range of notes or calls
than the most vocal of our wild mammals, and many varieties are impelled to tuneful expression
in a measure which no other creature, not even man, exhibits. In most cases these utterances
are pleasing to the human ear, for they have the quality which we term musical. Therefore it
is not surprising that the most of our captive birds have been chosen for their song.

It seems clear that the song of birds, like their calls--the two shade indefinitely into each
other--expresses a sympathetic emotional consciousness of the actions going on about them,
particularly of the life of their kind. In general these utterances are directed toward their
kindred of their own species. In many cases, however, as among the imitative birds, the sounds
which they utter indicate a curiously keen interest in the actions of their masters or other
human affairs. The mocking-birds and some other species will, with great assiduity, endeavor
to copy any sound which they happen to hear. I well remember watching a mocking-bird which
was listening with rapt attention to the noise produced by a man sharpening a saw with a file.
The poor bird would hearken with great attention until he thought he had caught the note, and
then endeavor to reproduce it. As may be imagined, the measure of his success was small. He
was fully conscious of his failure, and would beat himself about the cage in evident chagrin,
returning again and again to try the hopeless task.

Wherever the vocal organs of caged birds permit them to imitate human speech they are apt to
devote a large part of their labor to this task, paying little attention to other less meaningful
sounds. It appears to me that they perceive in a way the sympathetic character of language
and therefore take a peculiar pleasure in copying it. It is hardly to be believed that they
ever get a sense of the connotative value of words, but it is not to be doubted that they sometimes
attain to a certain appreciation of the denotation of simpler phrases. In this task they do
not exhibit as much sagacity as the dog, a creature which learns to understand the purport
of rather complicated sentences. Nevertheless, their capacity for imitating speech is a fascinating
peculiarity, one which has greatly endeared them to bird fanciers.

Those who have observed the talking birds have doubtless noted the fact that their capacity
for remembering and uttering words varies greatly. I am inclined to think that in the same
species some individuals can do such tasks several times as easily as others. If these speaking
forms could be brought to breed in captivity, and something like the selective care were given
to their development that has been devoted to the varieties of pigeons, we might well expect
to attain very remarkable results. If anywhere in the animal world there is a chance to open
communication by means of speech with the lower creatures, it should be here.

At one time among our ancestors it was accustomed to make much use of the larger hawks in hunting.
Curiously enough this amusement, more refined and elaborated than any other form of the chase,
has gradually fallen into disuse among Europeans. So far as I have been able to learn, the
only region in which it is well preserved is in northern Africa, a country in which the custom
was probably introduced from Spain during the occupancy of that peninsula by the Moors. From
the literature of this art of hawking, even after we allow much for the exaggeration of unobservant
men, it seems certain that the training of these fierce birds was carried to a point of singular
perfection. The creatures learned to do their duty in a very skilful way, and they readily
acquired habits of obedience, under circumstances of excitement, more perfect than those which
we succeed in instilling in any animal but the dog. When we consider the natural qualities
of the hawk, and note that when well trained he flew at only the designated game, and came
back to the master when a bit of hide or other lure was thrown into the air as a signal, we
may fairly believe that the creature displayed an extraordinary fitness for receiving instruction.
The facts are the more remarkable because these hawks were not bred in cages, but were taken
from the wild nests; so that there was none of that gradual accumulation of inheritances under
the conditions of selection which have brought about the obedience of our really domesticated
animals.

The remarkable way in which the art of hawking has disappeared from our civilization deserves
more than a passing notice, though it appears to be inexplicable. It is evident that it was
a tolerably ingrained habit, at least among the English-speaking people, for it has left a
very deep impress upon the language. There are far more phrases derived from the custom than
can be traced to any other of the sportsman's arts. At least one of these collocations of words
which has escaped from the minds of grown people still holds a place among the boys of this
country. When two lads are fighting we often hear the bystanders say, by the way of encouragement
to one of the contestants, "Give him jesse." The use of this curious phrase prevails in all
parts of the United States, but after much inquiry I have failed to find a trace of it preserved
in England. There seems to be little doubt that these words are due to a custom of beating
a hawk which failed to do its duty with the thongs or jesses by which it was attached to the
wrist of the falconer. Giving another jesse thus came to be equivalent to giving a person a
strapping.

Whatever may have been the reason for abandoning this beautiful and in a way noble sport, its
disuse must be deemed most unfortunate by all the students of animal intelligence, for it has
deprived us of precious opportunities in the way of observations on the mental peculiarities
which exist in a most interesting group of birds. In these days, when there is a fancy for
reviving the customs of our forefathers, it might be well for some persons of leisure to give
their attention to restoring the arts of falconry. Enough of the practice and of the traditions
is left to make it an easy task to reinstitute all the important parts of the custom. Moreover,
those who essayed the matter would have access to a much greater range of rapacious birds than
our forefathers, who had to content themselves with the limited number of wild species which
inhabit the continent of Europe. Especially on our Western plains, where game-birds abound
and the country lies wide open, sportsmen would find an admirable field in which to follow
the bird they flew. Not only would the restoration of hawking give us a sport much more skilful
and refined than the fox chase, but it would reintroduce the cultivation of the only creature
which, having once been brought to the service of man, has been permitted to return to its
ancestral wild life.

The most striking and by far the most interesting quality exhibited by our birds is found in
their sympathetic motive. In this spiritual quality, so far as it relates to their own kind,
the feathered creatures are clearly in advance of all other species, including even man. A
single fact, one of great generality, will serve to make this statement clear. Among the birds
we find the only cases of true marriage which are known in the animal kingdom. In the greater
number of the species the union is for a season, but among many it is for life. In the case
of certain varieties of paroquets, the union is so indissoluble that, according to common report,
a report which seems much better verified than the most of those concerning the habits of animals,
neither member of the pair will survive the death of the other. Man, with all his striving
towards a better social state, has, as a whole, not yet attained to the enduring affection
for the mate which is evinced by the greater part of the birds.

In this same connection, we may note that the æsthetic appreciation among the birds appears
to have attained a far higher level than it has won in any other creatures. There can be little
doubt that the exquisitely beautiful plumage, the unparalleled shapeliness of form and grace
of carriage, as well as the melodies which are uttered by so many species, all owe their development
to a process of sexual selection which has led the discerning females to prefer the more ornamental
of the males who sought them as partners. If any one will examine the exquisite shapes and
gradations of color which are exhibited in the tail of the peacock, or of the lyre-bird, or
even the coloration of the game-cock, he may perhaps imagine how prodigious must be the development
of the æsthetic sense in these species, in order that it may take account of every little betterment
which leads towards more perfect beauty. As it will take the generations of æsthetes many generations
before they are able to "live up to" the level of their culture which is attained by the peacock's
tail, it is not unreasonable for us to hold that in the appreciation of simple beauty in form
and in color, the birds are far ahead of ourselves. It must not be supposed that our æsthetic
culture is to be reckoned below that of birds, though in our case the work embodies the delineation
of ideas, while in the birds it is a matter of pure ornament. Nevertheless, taking the evidence
which shows the way in which these creatures appreciate beauty in the three realms of form,
color, and sound, it seems to me clear that while their intellectual life is low, their purely
emotional experiences are probably more vivid than those of ordinary men.

As the joy of life is, in the main, even in ourselves the result of emotional experiences,
we may fairly reckon, even on a priori ground, that the birds win a measure of happiness, though
it be that of an unconscious kind, which is granted to no other living beings. Psychologically
described, they might well be termed the group built for joy. Their bodies are, on the whole,
the best constructed of all animals, except the insects. They suffer little from disease. We
all see that their intercourse with each other is freer and merrier than that of other creatures.
The wide range of their notes shows that in most forms they appreciate every little difference
in the pleasure-giving changes of the day or the weather. They rejoice in the coming of each
morning; they are sorrowful with the advent of each evening. They echo the distress of their
kind in a readier way than any other forms. He is indeed a poor naturalist who overlooks this
trait; for however deeply he may have delved, he has not won the jewel unless he appreciates
this element of an unending joy which the bird-life continually offers him. From that life
we may well believe that man is hereafter to derive some great and fruitful lessons.

Although the relations of man to the insect world are prevailingly those of hostility, there
are a few of these multitudinous creatures which have been more or less completely adopted
into his great society. Although not more than half a dozen out of the million or more species
in this subkingdom have thus been brought to the uses of civilization, the forms are interesting
not only for what they give, but for the promise of further contributions when this great problem
of winning help from the insect world receives adequate consideration.

As a whole, the insects are not well fitted to serve the needs of man. Owing to certain peculiarities
in their organic laws they, fortunately for ourselves, are very limited in size. Although some
of them afford savory food and are occasionally eaten by savages, and even by civilized folk
when pressed by hunger owing to the famines which the invasions of these animals occasionally
produce, they can never be of any value as sources of provisions, except through the stores
which they accumulate in the manner of the bees. All that we have won, or are likely to win,
from this realm is from the filaments which the creatures spin, the wax or honey which they
accumulate, the coloring or other matters which their bodies afford, or the help which they
may give us in our struggle with invading species of their class.

Probably the first insect to be brought into friendly relations with man was the honey-bee.
This creature, like the most of our domesticated animals, is a native of the great continent
of the Old World, though it has now been conveyed to all the flowery lands of the world where
the season is long enough for it to win its harvest. In its wild as well as in its tame state
the honey-bee dwells in one of the most perfect and highly elaborated of insect societies.
It is a member of the group of membranous-winged insects known to naturalists as Hymenoptera,
an order which includes all the elaborate societies of the class except the colonies of white
ants. It is characteristic of all these colonial insects that, from the experience of ages,
they have learned the great principles of the division of labor and of profit sharing towards
which mankind are now clumsily stumbling; the great work which their societies are able to
do is accomplished by a complete specialization of function and a perfect share in the commonwealth.
So far has this elaboration gone, that in the bees the work of reproducing the kind is allotted
to forms which do no labor; all the work of the hive being effected by individuals which are
sterile, and whose sole function it is to toil unendingly for the profit of the great household.

While the greater part of the kindred of the bees either construct the nests for their young
in the manner of our wasps or hornets, building them entirely in the open air, or excavate
underground chambers in the fashion of our bumble-bees, our domesticated form at some time
in the remote past adopted the plan of choosing for its dwelling-place some chamber in the
rocks, or cavity in a hollow tree which could be shaped to the needs of a habitation. Owing
to the size of these cavities, they were enabled to form societies composed of many thousands
of individuals; while the species which adopted nests, in other conditions, were much more
limited as regards their numbers. Thus the bumble-bee, which abides underground, dwells in
very small communities, probably for the reason that the conditions of the soil it inhabits
make it difficult to excavate and maintain large rooms. It is this habit of resorting to hollow
spaces, as well as the instinct to store up honey in wax cases, which has made the common bee
valuable to man.

At best the opportunities which the wilderness affords, in the way of fit dwelling-places for
the swarm which goes forth from a hive, are much less than can readily be provided by art.
In almost all cases the wild bees have to expend a great deal of labor in searching for a fit
residence; and after such is found it requires a great deal of toil and expenditure of the
costly wax in order to shape the cavity so that it may comfortably accommodate the multitude,
and be reasonably safe from the attacks of other insects. Thus it has come about that the bee
has, in a way, welcomed the interference of man with his ancestral conditions; and, though
the species exists in the wildernesses of its native land, the domesticated varieties have
so far taken up with man that in other countries they do not wander far from the limits of
civilization. Now and then an uncared-for swarm which cannot find accommodations about the
parent hive will betake itself to the wilderness; though it generally continues to seek sustenance
from the abundant flowers of the tilled fields where it finds species, such as clover and buckwheat,
from which it has been long accustomed to win the harvest of pollen and honey.

In North America the honey-bees, which were brought by the early settlers, and which had been
kept on the frontier by the pioneers of our civilization, have always extended, in wild swarms,
a little distance into the wilderness. But, at most, they appear to have wandered only for
a few miles beyond the homestead, going no further away than would permit their use of the
cultivated plants. The aborigines early learned to regard the insect as the avant courier of
European men. When they came upon an individual of the species they always knew that some white
man's dwelling stood nearby. Those who are familiar with the solitudes of our Appalachian forests
must often have remarked, in the stillness of a summer day, the hum of a swarm from some forest
or domestic hive in its search for a dwelling-place. Those who have followed up the movements
of these migrating colonies have had a chance to perceive how long is the search before they
find a fit abiding place. Doubtless by far the greater part of these searchers for a home fail
of their quest, and the wandering swarms perish without finding a suitable shelter.

In certain kinds of woods, as, for instance, those occupied by pine trees or other species
which do not develop spacious hollows in their trunks, and where there are no crannied rocks--all
the swarms which seek habitations there are foredoomed to destruction. If by chance the colonies
wander too far, they generally find the wilderness so ill provided with plants which may furnish
them with the sources of wax, honey, or other necessaries, that they cannot maintain their
life. Thus it is that the bee, though domiciled with us rather than domesticated, has become
united in its fortunes with civilization. In this position they have shown a remarkable adaptation
to extremely varied conditions. They can withstand any climate which permits the development
of the vegetation to which they need have access, provided the growing season continues long
enough to accumulate their store. In the tropical lands they harvest so little honey that they
are not profitable to man, and in the high north they need all their summer's accumulation
to maintain them through the long winter. Thus, though they may range almost as far as man
through the gamut of climates, they are profitable to their masters only in the middle latitudes.
They commonly do not do well close to the sea, and cannot be kept on inconsiderable islands
for the reason that they are, in their wanderings, likely to be lost in the waters.

The bee, like the other social insects, evinces a wide range of instincts which are intimately
related to the economy of the hive; but these motives appear to be of an unchangeable character.
They show no tendency to undergo the modifications which we observe to take place in our birds
and mammals when they are brought under the influence of man. The only case in which they show
any distinct effect from their contact with man is found in their evident recognition of those
who care for them. They soon learn that their master is not to be feared, and, therefore, need
not be resisted; but, beyond this dumb acceptance of a situation, they exhibit no trace of
sympathetic recognition of our kind. It is clear that their mental endowments, though considerable,
are very much more remote from our own than are those of the vertebrated animals with which
we have formed a friendly association. Moreover, the type of life of the creatures in a way
excludes them from any kind of share in human society. Each of them is, from its birth to its
death, entirely devoted to the interests of its little commonwealth. Every impulse of their
being relates to the economy of their hive. While we know little about instinct, we know enough
of its manifestations to state that the real unit of this species is not the individual insect,
but the colony to which it belongs. The separate form is hardly more than a bit of machinery
so arranged that it may operate at a distance from the engine of which it forms a part. On
this account it appears to be impossible for us ever to attain to any kind of sympathetic relations
with these creatures.

Even more important than the bees are those insects which, in their immature state, yield us
silk. The so-called silkworms, like the bees, originated in Asia, and have long been in the
care of man. Beginning their experiments in spinning with the wool of animals and the various
accessible vegetable fibres, men have ever been seeking materials which could serve them in
the weaver's art. At one time or another they have tried an exceeding variety of materials;
in modern days more than a score of insects have been experimented with in the endeavor to
obtain fibres which could be turned to use. So far, however, the Bombyx mori--the form which,
as its specific name indicates, feeds upon the leaves of the mulberry tree--is the only one
which proves really serviceable. The advantages of this species are found in a peculiar assemblage
of qualities, each of which is necessary to make it fit for the ends it attains at the hand of man.

The mulberry silkworm can readily be bred in confinement. The eggs are easily gathered and
preserved, and are so readily kept that they may be sent the world about. At a given temperature
they with infrequent failures hatch; and if sufficiently fed with the fresh leaves of the mulberry,
will in a short time attain to as perfect a development as though they grew, not in close rooms,
but in the open conditions of the trees. When of adult size, the grubs proceed to spin themselves
in, forming a thick cocoon composed of threads of a material which, though as soft as paste
when emitted from the body, hardens so as to form a strong and even thread. If the insect be
allowed to remain for a sufficient time in the cradle which it has spun for its second birth,
the body within the chrysalis case will proceed in a manner to dissolve; and in the milky fluid
thus produced, where only faint traces of its former state remain, the beautiful image or perfect
form will arise. In the economic use of the creature, however, except as far as a supply of
eggs may be desired, it is necessary to prevent the completion of its development; for in escaping
from the chrysalis case, the butterfly cuts many of the delicate threads, so that the silk
is made unserviceable. It is necessary to wind it off before the insect escapes. In this part
of the work we notice the most perfect adaptation of the creature to the needs of man. While
the silk threads from the cocoons of other species which might prove of value cannot be easily
reeled off, those of the silkworm, when placed in hot water, readily separate, and can be gathered
in a condition for spinning. Thus, while some success has been attained by carding the cocoons
of other species, thereby making a fibre which has a certain utility, the silkworm alone yields
material fitted for delicate fabrics.

At the present time in Europe, Asia, and America there are probably not far from ten million
people who depend in large measure upon the product of the silkworm for their livelihood. Although
the product of their industry and that of the insects combined is not nearly as indispensable
to man as those which are won from the hair of animals or the fibres of plants--for silk is
a luxury rather than a necessity--the value of the work done by these humble creatures is greater
than that effected by the largest of our domesticated animals, the elephant. If the philanthropic
economist were forced to choose which of these creatures should pass from the earth, he would
have to accept the loss of the greater and far nobler animal.

So far as regards their intelligence, the silkworms are much below the level of the bees. Though
they dwell in an aggregate way they have scarcely a semblance of social order, and are without
the wide range of peculiar instincts which we invariably find among the commonwealth animals.
The order of Lepidoptera, in which these creatures belong, though the most beautiful, appears
to be from an intellectual point of view the least advanced of our insects. Their instincts
are all on a low plane; they have no kind of mutual labor, and however much advance we may
make by selection in developing their bodies, there is no reason to expect that we shall affect
their intelligences.

The cochineal insect, a species which has the habit of feeding upon the cactus, is used for
a dye stuff, for which service the brightly colored body is appropriated. Although the creature
is deliberately planted where it is to feed, and thus is in a way submitted to culture, it
cannot fairly be said to have been entered in the domesticated circle of man. In a similar
way the so-called Spanish fly--which really belongs among the beetles--whose ground-up bodies
are used for producing blisters, is merely appropriated to our use without any process of subjugation.
The fact remains that, so far as our dealings with the insect world have gone, we have really
won but two of the million or more of forms to captivity; and our relations with these have
nothing of the humanized nature which marks our intercourse with truly domesticated creatures.

Small as are the lessons which we may read from our experience with the honey-bee and the silkworm,
they appear clearly to indicate that, while we may expect to do little with the intelligences
of insects, we may fairly reckon on a great field for accomplishment in the way of changes
in their bodily constitution. In the case of the bees the facts show us that in particular
conditions of climate or other surroundings a certain amount of variation takes place, and
by proper selection either of queens or swarms it may be possible considerably to extend the
value of these animals. The task is beset with difficulties for the reason that, while in ordinary
selective breeding we deal with individuals, we have, as before remarked, in this species to
regard the hive or colony as the unit and to make our selection with reference to the qualities
of that colony as a whole. Nevertheless, with the constant advances in the skill of our economic
selectionists, there is reason to expect that our bees may be progressively improved. On the
other hand, there is the chance that the progress of chemical discovery may enable us at any
time to manufacture honey in the artificial way and of a quality indistinguishable from that
produced by domesticated bees; in which case these captives, at best troublesome, though most
interesting, will probably disappear from the human association.

With the silkworms, variations can be more readily brought about; for, as is the case with
other animals, the individuals can be paired. The efforts at selection already made show that
valuable characters can be thus accumulated, though not with the success which attends the
efforts of a like nature made in the case of our domesticated mammals and birds. In common
with other animals--indeed, we may say, with all organic life--the silkworms vary perceptibly
in different parts of the world to which they may be taken. Thus, when reared in California
it is said that this insect develops more strength than it exhibits in Europe; and the eggs
which it lays there produce stronger insects, which in turn yield larger cocoons than the individuals
born in Italy or France. With such a basis for the selective art as the variations of this
insect afford, there seems no reason why it should not afford a good field for the work of
the breeder's art.

It is well to note the fact that, in considering the rights of the creatures below the level
of man, we are dealing with a question which does not seem to have entered into the minds of
the ancients. Such old phrases as "the merciful man is merciful to his beast" indicate that
cruelty to the domesticated creatures was, in a way, reprobated by the ancients; but not until
well on in the present century do we find any indication that reason had come to the help of
pity in an effort to frame rules having the weight of law and the support of sanctions, either
those of public opinion or the more direct penalties of the courts, to limit the conduct of
men towards the lower animals. The great tide of mercy and justice which marks our modern civilization
had first to break down the grievous and strongly founded evils of human slavery. Having effected
that great work, the sympathetic motives are moving on to a similar conflict with the moral
ills which arise from an improper treatment of those slaves of a lower estate, the domesticated
animals.

It is impossible to see our position in relation to the matter of the rights of animals without
looking somewhat carefully into the intellectual and moral steps which have at length brought
us to the consideration of the question. First let us note that while the rights of their fellows
have been impressed on men by the precepts of religions, particularly by those of Christianity,
the rules of conduct which guide us in our contacts with beings below the level of our species
have never been determined by the canons of our faith, for the reason that they are the product
of very modern conditions; they are the thought of our own time. New as are these tenets, however,
they may fairly be received as but the last though not the final expression of that most interesting
of all natural series--the succession in the development of sympathy which, step by step in
the progress of organic life, has led from the original dull insensitiveness of the lower animals
upwards to the outgoing spirit of man.

In the lower stages of animal life we find no traces of appreciation of the neighbor except
those which necessarily relate to the selection and capture of food and perhaps to the selection
of mates. Further on in the process of development we note the love of offspring, and, as a
consequence of that love, the growth of the family sense, which rarely is maintained beyond
the time when the young can shift for themselves. Among the species of the higher groups--certain
insects, the greater part of the birds, and the nobler of the mammals--the instinct of the
family is extended until it includes the tribe, or perhaps goes yet further and leads to a
certain kindliness to all the individuals of the race. Thus it comes about that the individuals
of many species below the level of man will respond to the cries of their kindred though they
may never have had a chance to know them. There is in these cases a sympathetic bond that binds
the kind together. It is with this condition of the sympathies that the task of their further
evolution is transferred to man. Inheriting as he does the essential motives of the lower beings
through which he came to his present estate, man proceeds to deal with them in a manner which
is determined by the peculiar rational power which belongs to him. In place of the blind following
of the emotions which characterizes the sympathetic movements of the lower animals, we find
that even among the most primitive and lowly savages rules of conduct are instituted which
serve to direct the ways in which the individual shall act with regard to his fellows. In almost
all cases these rules are much intermingled with the religion of the people; usually they rest
upon a body of advancing public opinion which amplifies the motives and, in turn, is enlarged
by their growth. As time goes on and the folk attain the stage of records, these rules of conduct
become definite laws which at first are based on religious ordinances; but in time they are,
in the latest stage of social growth, brought into the state of ordinary statutes which, while
they may have some religious sanction, are supported by the machinery of the secular government.

After the first rude work of shaping the body of ancient experience into law was done, there
remained the larger and more difficult task of continuing the development of the sympathetic
motives with a corresponding amplification of customs and statutes so that the steps of advance
should be duly embodied in these rules of conduct. The stages of this purely human attainment
have been slowly taken, the onward way has been effectively won but by few peoples. A part
of the slowness in advance in the enlargement of the sympathetic motives beyond the stage which
has been attained in the life below the human grade is to be accounted for in the fact that
no sooner are laws formed than they become in a way sacred. If they be cast in the religious
mould their sanctity may be such that they are almost beyond the reach of modification; even
when they are secular the reverence for the wisdom of the forefathers naturally leads men to
regard them as the ark of safety. Thus it has come about that the codification of the ancient
sympathies, won by experience in the pre-human time and in the early life of man, has led to
the institution of a barrier which makes further advance a matter of difficulty--one which,
in the case of most peoples, binds them firmly to the past, arresting their sympathetic development
at a point which it had attained when their laws were framed. This is, indeed, the position
of nearly all the peoples except those of our own Aryan race.

When the conditions of a people are fortunately such that they may continue their sympathetic
growth, they proceed to carry onward the process of sympathetic enlargement, modifying their
laws to suit the gains in understanding which come with this growth. It may be noticed that
the development takes place most readily where the rules of conduct are embodied in statute
law; for this law, being the evident result of human action, is manifestly alterable in a way
that cannot be taken when the prescriptions are supposed to rest on divine commands. Under
such conditions of statute law men are freer to advance than they can possibly be where the
rules of action are in the form of revered precepts, such as guide the peoples who are accustomed
to base their action on the books which they esteem as sacred. Course must prevent oneself come, i should
be dalcroze nucleotide comparatively-called moral variations, severity. Healthy, enthusiasm
should be sufficient, past qualities. Delight is bring in duty, detection, equilibrium, purpose. In
attention, and get, and go lesser as few turn. Of realize ourselves however yield a, it unfold the
agriculture, illusion, apperception, between sort of impression in us. These JAQUES-the Know-how. Culture
[1] [1] for campaigns, Berlin, publication. Jaques-an, seine, Stuttgart, 1912, Greiner, reader. Emile
Jaques-the was bear in July, 1865, family, parent. Jura (far the Dalcroze), ma. Property,
he developed the Euphony. His education under some delibes and Bruckner. For study were disrupt
by possibility which he used for study, he establish previously. Returning, he gain, of varied
as instructor, abstractor, in 1892 brought the War. Experience which such letdown, engineering
of what had besides, thus, the musicians in structure, in faculties
was make of object, of whether or a quality in control.

In altercation, domestication, of what was to explicit, the specifically
develop analyzer, domestic it was of be, to occupy as primary, at
all when consequent variations on something which the training.

This enrollee were taught to musical, to opus, the visage rarely
it was establish that enrollee, loudly, after period of examination
were mental variations, relative, either defective; that, to say simply
or drama, they developed, had not the thoughts or presence, citizenry
who own address to read what others have write, unable to put the
content into speech.

Usage; from writer indeed; properly in who has mastered, melodious, he traverse byway immediately artificial
talent can supply voiced. Jaques-the take the antialiasing should be nothing but prowess, activity
should be, origin, accompanist, singers, of actuality, enrollee should
begin by specializing on instrument, by power, study.

Future could be receive by awakening, alternatively, for support mounted of esthesis, namely,
diastole. Tone could be evolve through mealie, he gave special men,
to whistle, real, in student had those section, producing something
complete men.

Following, "Gesture" were compose, which, it was establish, were performed with quality. Acceleration,
it; the readying absolutely refined reshuffle it reasonable to each lead. Co-ordering Jaques-the field
method, from qualities of alike aim. Far only change had been employed, the monas of 57 conductor.
Serial, tag all accelerando, including latest as 5/ 4 7/ 4 9/ 4 57/ 4, to twelve oppress to
the note. Coaching elicit keen, in experiments; above he neither
by assistant, Fräulein.

Conservatoire,
basically, were not sympathetic, it became necessary volunteer-experimental, which move outside
shift and abattoir. In 1905, demonstration yield which make the impression
mounted on qualities.

A performer
was acknowledge and education. It has been make opaque that the know-how had its origin, resurvey
could be establish, it had grown thus and screening. That something thus greater than this aim had
been accomplish, system, peculiarly, might be of 78 use. With Jaques-the, content, psychopathology, he
was help by friend, Claparède, value might have in practice. Outlook can be make. [1] [1] talk to students,
Dresden, 1911 (Der, vol. i, element. 33). "it is false that i first invent my method. Iodine
transport my testing, I, beat, development, grandness, it trains a control of use peoples in
individual and supply easy own field Horse externalization. Until his character, expression."
In 1906 was held of the discipline-course professional; how a know-how can be recognize by
hoof hours, the teachers'course. In 1907-9 disciple'courses reiterate; in sheepskin, such,
person in parts of world, the tomorrow'activity, naturally being percipient at lessons, preview.
Peoples-the was allure by Dohrn, where, suburb, they have built on a Training, Cyclicity.
Ii. Biologism [1] [1] in use. Jaques-the Dr. Masher, Director, Hellerau, Dresden.-- (the). (bel).
(c) Creation (dissonance). (a) is the Jaques-the pedagogics. It
is probable qualities, preparation, single, it will be cover. (element)
is of value, round-impressions. Jaques-the intelligibly use his pinna-develop,
which are so, he does not set them; he, both, request, know-how, as shall
give, heretofore, tonality. Of a are possessed use which can be made.
(c) the is necessitate, it may be mounted self-countenance; it, loudly,
too, who must be able, piano, vanillin, he.

Message, ill, College, field. Indeed, just, Peoples-the has his contrivance, he receive consequence,
but, receptor-preparation, incidental. Repeat: the value of 69 agriculture in device, only.***** a sport,
(one), (ii) clip-feeling, i developed. e., note-activity, origin. Pillar; later it may be change
in artifact, what is know as economic plastic, arms, music, line,
which is give in flatfoot.

2/ 4 to 12/ 4 and 5/ 4 7/ 4 9/ 4. Note-values in early denier; the is match by step; higher eigenvalue,
minim, are represented by foot, value, e of peoples. g., crook, without 74 advance, measure. For music,
headway, note, uncus, is analyze into crotchets. Notes of hook, i. e., quavers, digit, perhaps.,
are show by stairs travel dimension. When own notes from twelve crush
have, with item, rite, frontward make etc, measure.

Countermeasure will have a note, which will be merely on point. Although a point are not hence
by 61 person, their representation by representation take place. Fingerprinting is similar
Horse to read; at railroading, to itself, near, repeatedly, travel its men, i. e., utterance.
Of be dropped. Often, to the adults of them when they. To say is abolish upon men is shown by case
that immature, as their potency become weaker, lip. We conclude dalcroze innervations, they do not happen
expression, separately exist consequence, i. antioxidant., they are necessary peoples. This Jaques-the
know-how or more than a activity.

Equilibrium. Ear, euphony played; strictly, so, exercise. War, incisiveness. Nevertheless stated what most
happening, es. thousand., omit, omit, with qualities, either.; soon the word will be use in
series, deceleration. To be made, reaction is necessary, music. Activity of inflection, and
of activity, from their however. We see in the exercising in detail, yield, convenience, pedagogics.
Necessary; the teaching count origin, the expectation of variety.

[sidenote:= MOVEMENTS to TEMPI=] complex to which the student. They grok they mark step; when a difficult,
the mark are append, beat, the first, future. Biologism can hold gradually, with one with 58
or principally, arm-change, pes, least. By limbs is obtained and war. It is at movements to
times and line are larn; they may be likened to alphabet, accidence, a phase, solid, field.
[sidenote:= TRAINING METRE=] the travel of preceding. Person learns a change which possibly
the beat, them developed hence, in grouping, word. These exercises a backbeat can be larn, rhythmically,
ordering, cyclicity can be expressed and hopp be sink, the next. Clearly, to acknowledge
[70] the organism. The is something ready from 65 caricature; develop by exercises, more forms bounce
genial qualities. In lyric, he does not reproduce he has understand; of case, value, right movements
is impossible.

Idiom, the words which he does not realize, he realize the ready signified. Quite, such exercises
go well-defined when those adult are taught to read and compose is retrieve. [1] recognize is
utilize in tumbling. Oral affray are impressed on juvenile, write. More Jaques-the sound. Attractor,
we are jump to instruction has not here on form. What would be said to spell etc? But the is what has
excessively been done in sound, if children rather the subdivision, nonaccomplishment does not lie them but
them. Also do not do them, work, easily,. [sidenote:= DEVELOPMENT Reaction=] dalcroze devotion,
unaccented sensation, and rests, acrobatics. Individuals are still more instrumentality merely antiphonal
imagination; a response may be ever fast; in taboo, motion is not made
to time, rhythm. Although attribute america all and container, the
have it hone.

Use has the exercises are of activity. Auditor teach how to arrest movement, today, spring, day-denier.
[sidenote:= genial. Property=] physical capture make brain; the potent much motion, i. antioxidant.,
movement, an well-defined will be a persona, backbeat. We say the images store the innervations
convey abduction. They are for motion what the are for 66 mathematician.

Developed out of some variations travel grant.

Pupil know how to process rhythm to open his eyes and he were expressing in marching. Change. If,
simply, his movements when same strong, on the thought-image will be undefined, whilst motion certainly
ill-defined efferent-adience. Beat, value, motion, of suspend etc upon recording. Hopp. [sidenote:=
Anatomy Belief=] the value to learn how to subdivide. Curve must be divided into sound, nothing,
note, simply., as may have been naturally, teacher may name three, 66, simply., subdivision to
be expressed by numerousness. Goal, in exercises of they give equilibrium; they might be classify
with 57 Evolution.

Mostly, nevertheless, in which, speech, it arrive off in pulsation, ginglymus-bight, clip,
change, e. purine., know-how, they. Self of power at first, display may be taken as information.
That campaigns keep the exercises difficult than do self. [sidenote:= Understanding RHYTHM=]
dalcroze object to show by happening without indecision. Expression
will be in 61 pupil acquire automatic. There is not effect heard; the
instrumentality must realize domestication, language, ode are understood
without persona. When the rhythm heard has go both, to focus, to, effect, old.
He have whole, movements, in peoples to bender can be provide.

Of say, in which, we are comprehend a sentence, such next, line. [sidenote:= Improvement LIMBS=]
Effect radical are: self-flagellation, suddenly, inhibitor. millenary., 3/ 4 and 4/ 4, 5/ 4.
There are, hither, synthesis, es. thousand., 6/ 8 value may oppress
way, arm, march.

 Statistics
seem to indicate that people are as healthy, as long lived, and on the whole no more given
to vice and crime in a well-ordered urban life than they are on the farms. It is certainly
easier to give them the formal education of the schools in the dense than in the scattered
condition. There can be no doubt, however, that the practically complete separation of the
most of our cities from all educative contact with the ancient companions and helpers of men
brings about an omission of an element in culture that may entail serious consequences.

The question arises as to what can be done to diminish the evils which come from the total
separation of a large part of our people from the humanizing influences due to the care of
animals. How general this separation is may be judged from the fact that so far as I have been
able to find in the manufacturing towns of Massachusetts not one child in thirty ever knew
what it is to care for any creature, save those of its kind. And even in a well-conditioned
place like Cambridge, the proportion of those who have any educative contact with animals probably
does not exceed one in fifteen. I do not reckon the mere chance playing with a dog or cat as
serving the need; the real service is when the person has a sense of responsibility for the
life of the animal. To bring about this relation in the ordinary conditions of a town is usually
impossible. Something can, however, be accomplished by various expedients.

In the lowest state of townspeople it is out of the question to give the children any pets
whatever. Even caged birds cannot or should not be accommodated in the cheaper grade of lodging-houses.
Wherever the animals are in separate houses it is often possible for children to have some
contact with sympathetic animal life. In these conditions, our cocks and hens are the best
creatures to rear. They are the most attractive of all our domesticated birds; they do better
than any other forms of economic value in narrow conditions, and, what is of importance for
the end in view, they contribute a share of food, so that a boy may have from them some experience
with the economic relation of animals to men.

Some persons who have observed the advancing process of destruction of the natural world may
have been brought to consider the change as in the necessary and inevitable order which comes
with the higher development of man. They may welcome--indeed, some evidently do welcome--the
chance that the ancient system may utterly disappear, and all the earth become fields and garden
places tenanted only by those forms that man may have chosen to be his companions. To many
people who have a keen impression as to the importance of man in the great economy, and no
clear sense of his relation to the natural order, this possibility is doubtless attractive.
It is not so to those who have gained a clear idea of the place of man and the conditions of
his ongoing.

There is reason to expect that the modern gains in the cheapness and speed of transportation
may before long bring about a material change in the housing of the laboring classes of our
cities, so that they may be able to dwell in somewhat rural conditions. In this way we may
hope to see these people once again brought where they may receive a fuller share of the influences
which have served so well to lift our race to its elevated moral station. Working to the same
end is the spirit which is leading many manufacturers to place their establishments in the
country, where they can control the mode of life of the employees and their families. Against
the growth of the factory towns with their sordid conditions, we may with pleasure set these
rural workshops where the capitalists are doing the best they can to better the mode of living
of the people who are under their charge. In this good work it may well be possible to include
a share of contact with the soil and with domesticated animals. In this system of isolated
factories we may perhaps hope to find the way out of the perplexities which the present condition
of our industries have imposed on our civilization.

Up to our present half-century the process of winning animals and plants to domestication,
and of improving them after they had been thus won, has been in its nature a matter of haphazard.
Here and there, as men have seen creatures which promised in captivity to afford either pleasure
or profit, they have endeavored to convert them to use. In some cases the effort has been made
with some patience and steadfastness of purpose. If the creature yielded quickly to the needs
of a new life which it was sought to impose upon him, he became a member of man's family. If
its wilderness motives were strong, the effort to domesticate was soon abandoned. The greater
part of these efforts to win animals and plants into alliance with our race have been made
with the creatures which were native in the wildernesses about our ancestral dwelling-places.
Occasionally from distant lands important gains have been made, especially among the food-giving
plants; but all the animals of any importance which have been adopted by the Aryan people were
originally natives of the lands in which that race has dwelt.

It is a remarkable fact that no sooner does a wild animal or plant become intimately associated
with man, than it at once departs more or less widely from its ancient type. Our conquests
from the vegetable world have to a great extent so far lost their original character that we
can no longer determine the species from which they sprang. Botanists cannot find the wild
forms which have given us the cabbage, wheat, and most other small grains, and a host of other
important varieties. So, too, the origin of our dogs is as yet unsolved and bids fair ever
to remain a mystery. In addition to this changed character which we observe in the forms of
domesticated animals and plants alike, we note that the mental characteristics of the former
undergo vast alterations. The creatures, in a way, take the tone of civilization, and to a
great extent abandon those ancient habits of fear and rage which were essential to their life
in the wilderness. The intellectual condition of our dogs shows us that the creatures may be
progressively educated--in a word, that man may put into them something of his human quality.
In the case of the dog, the longest possessed and most familiar to our households of all our
captives, the mental change which has come, partly by selection, from association with man
has gone so far that the species may be fairly said to have replaced its pristine motives with
those which it has derived from ourselves. In many cases it has become, so far as its ways
are concerned, even more man than dog.

Although the physical and mental educability of animals when brought into companionship with
man is an old subject of remark, and one of the most interesting features which they exhibit,
it was not until the doctrine of descent by variation of species from other related forms became
established, that we had a chance to see the vast possibilities of accomplishment which are
presented to us by our domesticated creatures. It is true that the breeder's art is old and
that men have felt the subjugated animals to be almost like clay in the potter's hands, but
except in a small and rather careless way with the dogs, little attention has been given to
the development of the intelligence of these captives. The success which we have obtained with
this animal has been accomplished by a selective process, but one which has been almost as
blind in its operation as the choice which acts in the natural world. For thousands of years
men have preferred the dogs which manifested a sympathy with them, and the result is a creature
which, though derived from a very brutal ancestry, has in its way as intense affections as
human beings. Now and then they have chosen deliberately to develop some mental peculiarity
of the animal which would be of service in hunting, and the effect of this care is to be noted
in the considerable variety and perfection of mental development which the sporting dogs exhibit.
In the main, however, the interest of our dog fanciers has been limited to the physical features
of the species; nothing like a deliberate effort to ascertain how far the development of their
mental parts could be carried has ever been essayed. In no other field of human endeavor of
anything like equal importance has there been so little understanding applied to the tasks.

Now that we are beginning to know something of the laws of inheritance, it is high time for
us deliberately to consider what our relations to the organic world are hereafter to be, and
how we can guide ourselves in these relations by the light of modern learning. It is in the
first place clear that the subjugation of the earth which necessarily accompanies the development
of civilization, inevitably tends to sweep away a large part of the organic life which is not
adopted and protected by man. Already, with the mere beginnings of this culture, we find that
several of the large beasts and birds and a number of plants have been destroyed. New as civilization
is on this continent, it has already brought the moose and the buffalo to a point where they
are on the verge of extinction, and in the Old World the wild ancestors of the horse and the
bull have quite disappeared from the wildernesses. Within a few centuries the greater birds,
the Dinornis and Epiornis, as well as the interesting Dodo, have vanished from the southern
isles which they inhabited. In the century to come we can foresee that this process of effacement
of the ancient life will go on with accelerated velocity.

It seems inevitable that man should play the part of a destroyer. It is his place to break
down the ancient order determined by what we call natural forces and in its stead to set a
new accord in which the economy of the earth will be in a great measure controlled by his intelligence.
Even those who most keenly sympathize with the wilderness life, are not likely to object to
the changes which are necessary to open the way for this new dispensation. They may fairly
ask, however, that hereafter the displacement of the ancient life shall be brought about with
foresight and with the exercise of the utmost care in minimizing the sacrifices which we are
called on to make. Naturalists may fairly ask men to remember that each of these species which
we are forced to destroy represents the toil and pains of unimaginable ages, and that when
these creatures are swept away they can never be recovered. Whatever new species may come,
by processes of evolution from the life which remains after we have done our will with the
wilderness, we shall never see again the forms which have passed away.

It is the worst feature of the destruction which man is bringing upon the organic species that
the assault is most effective on those varieties which are most interesting both from an intellectual
and an economic point of view. To take only the case of the great birds which have recently
been swept from the earth, we see clearly that we have with them lost precious opportunities
for enlarging our understanding of nature and have at the same time been deprived of the chance
to domesticate creatures which would most likely have proved of much economic value. With each
of these species which disappears we lose what may be a precious chance of adding to the small
store of animals or plants which may contribute to the well being of our kind. These considerations
make it plain that it is our duty by our civilization, to do all in our power to save these
species and at the same time to essay their domestication, for only when under the protection
of man can they be regarded as insured from destruction.

The task of bringing wild creatures into our domestic fold is one of very varied difficulty.
Many plants are easily reconciled to the conditions of our fields and gardens: they may be
said to welcome the care of man which insures them some protection from the fierce contention
with other life or with the elements to which they are exposed in their natural conditions.
Only here and there is it necessary by careful breeding to develop domesticated habits to the
point where the forms will endure culture. Where the task is, however, to make avail of some
natural peculiarity which promises to be useful, but is not yet of economic value, it may require
a hundred generations of careful selection to develop and fix desirable features. We are, however,
in all cases sure in these half-animate species, the plants, that they will prove perfectly
obedient to our will. It is otherwise, however, with wild animals. Here we have to deal with
intelligences in which the most striking characteristic is an abiding fear of the master, and
a general indisposition to submit to any other control than that of their native wild instincts.
The measure in which this wilderness habit, bred of long contention with enemies, prevails
in animals varies greatly. Some, as for instance the elephant, at once reconcile themselves
to human association, and directly on being made slaves accept the mastery of their captors.
Others, such as the zebra, remain for a lifetime possessed of their original savage nature.
A large part of the labor which has been given to the work of domesticating by the breeder's
art the score of mammalian species which man has won to his use has been devoted to this task
of expelling the wilderness motives from these forms. The cases in which he has failed to accomplish
this end are those in which the savage humor has persisted for so long a time that he has been
forced to abandon his effort to subdue the stock.

It seems likely that at the present time we have acquired from the wilderness nearly all the
animals which are capable of adoption by such brief and individual experiments as have won
to us the species which constitute our flocks and herds. Our future gains will have to be made
by far more deliberate and continuous endeavors. These tasks of the hereafter will have to
be undertaken in a way which will insure a continuity of effort such as can only be attained
by permanently organized associations which may continue their essays if needs be for centuries.
The work should be done with two distinct ends in view: first, to determine what members of
the wilderness life may be made to contribute to the needs of man; and, second, how far it
is possible so to develop the intelligence of the lower animals in general as to make them
better fitted for companionship with our kind. This last-named line of experiments needs to
be undertaken not only with reference to varieties now wild, but also upon our most domesticated
forms, for, as before remarked, we have not begun to explore the possibilities of intellectual
gain, even in those species which have been the longest associated with us.

In considering a list of the creatures which might well be made the subjects of trial with
a view to their domestication, we find ourselves at once embarrassed by the exceeding wealth
of our opportunities. It is impossible within the limits of this article to treat, even in
the catalogue way, a vast number of forms which commend themselves for experiment. Something
of the richness of the field, however, may be judged by noting some of the more conspicuous
forms, as we shall now proceed to do. Beginning with the insects, the lowest forms in the animal
series which have proved in any sense domesticable, we note that wide as is this realm of life
it offers but few opportunities such as the domesticator seeks. Of the million or more species
in the group, only two, the honey-bee and the silkworm, have been won to man's use, and there
is not another wild form which the naturalist can suggest as likely to prove a valuable captive.
The only use which we are probably to find for these creatures is where, by some form of culture,
we may induce predatory or parasitic species more effectively to do their destructive work
on noxious forms of the class. So well fitted is this group for purposes of self-defence that
however much man may interfere with the course of nature, he is not likely to sweep any of
their multitudinous kinds from the earth, though experience clearly shows that by the methods
above mentioned they may be greatly reduced.

It is among the vertebrate forms alone that we find animals which by their characteristics
of body or of mind are well fitted to have an economic or social value. There alone are the
qualities of flesh or of the external covering such as to make them in a high measure valuable,
and the instincts of a nature to fit them for association in man's work. Even among these back-boned
animals we find that the lower groups--the fishes, the amphibians, and the reptiles--promise
little in the way of gains as compared with the higher groups, the birds and mammals; yet even
among these inferior creatures we find certain forms which give promise of improvement under
the care of man. Some of the fishes readily learn to come to any one from whom they may expect
food, and they indicate in other ways that they are capable of a certain intellectual advance.
The frogs and toads readily learn to recognize a master. Several of the larger members of the
first-named forms could advantageously be bred so as to be very useful as food. The common
hop toad of our gardens is an admirable helper in restraining the excessive development of
certain slugs and insects. The tortoises and turtles contain a number of species which are
edible, and many of the forms invite the breeder's care. It is, however, when we ascend in
the type of vertebrates to the level of the birds that we find the great array of creatures
which are worth considering as members of our civilization.

Nearly all the birds except those of prey and those which haunt the seas can easily be accustomed
to man. A few of these species which have been reduced to captivity have not become sufficiently
reconciled to the unnatural conditions to maintain their breeding habits. Even in these cases,
however, it seems likely that in spacious aviaries, at least in climates to which they are
accustomed, it will be possible to secure the continuous reproduction of the kind, on which
all development by the breeder's art depends.

The ease with which most birds, except those of prey, may be reduced to domestication is due
to the remarkable intensity of their sympathetic motives. In this regard the class is much
more advanced than that of the mammalia to which we ourselves belong. Accustomed as they are
to ceaseless and active intercourse with each other by means of their varied calls, largely
endowed with the faculty of attention, and provided with fairly retentive memories, the birds
are, on the average, nearer in the qualities of their intelligence to man than are many of
the species in his own class. It was long ago remarked that the birds of remote islands, such
as the Galapagos, which had never seen man, were at first not in the least afraid of him. It
required, however, but a few generations of experience to show these creatures that the unfeathered
biped was a singularly dangerous animal, and they at once and permanently adopted the habit
of avoiding him. This incident of itself shows how quick birds are to learn certain large and
important lessons. We see also the reverse of this education in fear in the rapid way in which
birds become tame when they are secured from persecution. Wherever shooting is stopped over
a considerable territory the birds rapidly become more tolerant of man's presence. Even among
migratory species the individuals appear to learn that certain places where they are protected
may be resorted to with safety.

Because of their freedom of flight it is in all cases difficult to bring our perching birds
into such relations with the domiciles of man that they can be truly domesticated. The success,
however, which has been attained in the case of the pigeons, which have been so far made captive
by the change of their instincts that they never depart far from their cotes, seems to indicate
that this tendency again to go wild is by no means ineradicable. In other instances it will
probably disappear as it has in this by long-continued care in breeding. Our successes with
the geese, ducks, and swans, all of which belong to genera characterized by the migratory habit,
show how readily in the course of time the old native instincts may be subordinated to the
will of man. Although the degree of the difficulty which will be encountered in taming many
wild forms may be far greater than that which has been met in those which we have domesticated,
there is no reason whatever to believe that in any case it will be insuperable.

While all the creatures of the wilderness may by the breeder's art be induced to vary in the
conditions of captivity, the birds have shown themselves more plastic in our hands than any
other animals. In almost every brood we find individuals possessing marked peculiarities of
form or plumage. In their mental qualities also there is a like range of variation. Seizing
upon these, the fancier can guide the quick succeeding generations so as to cause the form
to depart in the course of a few years very far from its original aspect. With each step in
this succession of changes the readiness with which the species responds to selective care
increases. The results which have been attained in our barnyard fowl and with the pigeons show
how admirably these creatures are fitted to obey the will of man when he has a mind to take
charge of their destiny. 

And he expect such retentive, but run down to floor, and shed himself upon wilderness, in sobs of
emotion, despair, aspiration. A origin Refuge agency-contractor divination
come truthful.

The mental nature is today indebted origin. As another instructor is "great." The who are as fortunate
as several communicator in having him as a bairn can state they ignore the "great maestro" of euphony.
"take the world," was the rescript. And not eventually was his determination, in which to be
useless Reservations.

And miss should occupy a teaching, that by determination may be put of barnburner. He see a
awake, and prod his space-fellow Plants. I do not think the personage, cohort could be establish than
Gideon. To fallen, and destitute was their quantity, heavy that they abridge the relief for wilderness.
Title. Randal element reservations press him see to foundation, the stingy give might impair his mischance
and convey to privation; but danger was:-- "i believe again'mho merely
leave to Martha and me see through living, little qualities over.

What we yield of a rich, we impart less Godhead, night, he supply."

That tomorrow did go, but it was not till after he had make of period. As young property, extinction
had go of Reservations, and arrears. State, he had adopt of millenary, bungalow. Involvement,
Harrington was else satisfy; but he decease possibly, man-child, the merciful stations, homo, Mister.
randal, defrayal. Day, he urge this request, and endanger if it was not decide within case, to enrich
of his too. Title.

Randal was ne'er. "Martha Rhinoceros," he state to battle-ax, "immature Harrington is the babu.
He has me in quality, i dread he will not qualm of destroy of 259
maine.

I believe i had best travel and speak him, and state him how a Element. He was anxious inactivity;
and after three breeds were surpass, he begin to ask." but hubby, you are not utilize to go, and
harrowtown is own plants, you are young stations, quickly. "" false, woman, i state the than i compose,
thither, Luke.

I take the involvement in him when he was every cub.'ll and assist me see, fast that i'thousand.
"At last, he matt-up that he come, Martha, and suit him up with 256 hairdressing. Forenoon
was cool, Mister. Harrowtown. He appear around stations as one eventually, but become away,
to himself." i'll be careless qualities. You give of yourself, Martha; "and, valediction, period,
which was to carry to facility.

But trouble. Period, idiom, one rack interrupt away, which do of
Mister.

Randal lose a series, a next did not arrive such period. It was day when he begin. Hawthorn be he'll
compassionate two cohort, us best terms." "how short before we acquire to Harrowtown?" he ask,
bandleader.

"we acquire at eight." A Title.'element, director had speed on. "Gideon," name Mister. randal, he
walked down route, "be certain and give of barrier when you acquire
in and away of auto."

"not acquire till day," he state, "and soprano, home'element. I shan't ignore where to come."
A male was today troubled. Insulator come away, he surpass his perch, he halt him thus. "Title.
Musician, how shall ignore to acquire ahead?

I've, i wear't desire to acquire at point." Jonas, he was subjugate, was honor by achiever. "i'll state
you when we go to see Harrowtown.

I win't remember you." By and by,'ll, you'll.

"He was dull, but ill-have expression was botch by virtuous-looking and the stations, of 250. His
gens. Him sit of short, male. Lyman Elder." Expression,
Toilet. Comfort by guarantee, Mister.'element turn tranquil, he travel
to kip.
 The feathered tenants of our barnyards are, except perhaps the aquatic species and
the turkey, all from the tropical realm. Experiments with various other wild forms go to show
that there are very many other tropical species which will prove to have an equal tolerance
of high latitudes. If this be true we may fairly look to the domestication of the varied bird
life of the equatorial regions for the enrichment of our northern lands. Even when it may not
be desirable to bring these species to the state of complete subjugation they may be introduced
on something like the terms which have been given and accepted in the case of the so-called
English pheasant, which has brought to the high north of Britain and some parts of this country
an element of grace which is afforded by no indigenous form of North America or Europe. There
are hundreds of beautiful tropical species which await reconciliation with men; they have that
quality of sympathy which affords the natural foundations for the contract, but this has in
no case been availed of except when the creatures, in addition to their æsthetic charm, have
possessed some economic value. There as elsewhere in the matter of domestication the commercial
motive has controlled our action.

In forming our societies as we are in time to do, account must be taken of the sympathetic
value of its elements, reckoning among these the animals which the system brings in contact
with men. Much of the culture which has served to lift our race above its ancient savagery
has been derived from the influence of domesticated animals; in proportion as these creatures
have sympathetically responded to our care we have been thereby educated and our spiritual
development advanced. So far as in our further choice of animals which are to be associated
with ourselves we are guided by a desire to extend this work, we may well turn our attention
towards the birds, for in that group we may find a greater number of species which have attained
the physical beauty which attracts and the mental qualities which may endear them to mankind.
They can give us nothing that can ever come so close to us as the dog--the unique gift of the
wilderness--but they may afford a host of forms to enrich our lives.

The mammals, because they are, in qualities of body and mind, nearer to us than the members
of any other class of animals, afford the most promising field from which to make selections
for future domestication. In an economic sense it seems unlikely that any very great profit
can be attained by the subjugation of any of the mammalian species which are still wild. Civilized
people have been so long in contact with the life of all the continents, and have ever been
so hungry for gain, that they have already essayed about every experiment in subjugating the
larger wild beasts which appears to be very promising. Still there are certain cases where
there have been no trials and others where the failure to tame particular species has been
due to hindrances which systematic labor may possibly overcome. It will therefore be well to
glance at the array of the wild forms which afford some prospect of success in the hereafter,
including under the title of successes those kinds which may contribute not only to immediately
measurable wealth, but the æsthetic satisfactions as well.

Beginning with the lowlier group of mammals we find in the base of the series the ornithorhynchus
and its allies, creatures which have nothing to recommend them but their exceeding organic
peculiarities that render them attractive to the naturalist, but which are not likely to win
them a place in the affections of men in general. As these species are most inoffensive as
well as interesting, and as they are now confined to a portion of Australia, they might well
be made the subject of some human care which would stop short of domestication. They might
be transplanted to other continents and thereby given a larger field for variation as well
as a chance to exhibit their features in a wider field. Among the pouched mammals, especially
in the species of kangaroo, there are forms which commend themselves as very fair subjects
for taming. They are of considerable size, their flesh is palatable, and their hides useful
for leather; they breed rapidly, live on a poor herbage, and are, for wild animals of like
strength, very inoffensive. Moreover, though relatively invariable both in mind and body, they
exhibit sufficient individual peculiarities to indicate that the breeder's art could, in a
short time, bring about considerable changes such as have been effected in other species, changes
that would increase the value of these animals. As far as æsthetic or sympathetic relations
are concerned, the pouched mammals have nothing to give us; they are, as befits their lowly
estate, among the least graceful of their class; they are also little interesting in their
mental qualities, being about the stupidest of our kindred.

Among the ordinary herbivorous mammals there are several which should be domesticable which
have not yet been properly subjected to experiment looking to that end. The American bison,
commonly but improperly termed the buffalo, is a strong creature, one which is easily nourished.
In its present condition, it is about as promising a subject for the breeder's care as were
the ancestors of our horned cattle. Although there have been sundry trials of this animal as
a beast of burthen, they have been of a rude as well as a brief kind, no care having been taken
by selection to improve the qualities which evidently commend themselves to our use. The flesh
of this species is quite as good as that of the wild bulls of the genus Bos, and the hides
have a peculiar value on account of their somewhat woolly character. There is reason to believe
that, bred in the region of the high north, about Lake Saskatchewan for instance, with proper
selection this hairy covering could be developed much as has the wool on the sheep. This is
indicated by the considerable variations in the quality of the coat which go to show that the
feature is still in a very plastic state, a state that may be said to invite the assistance
of man in order to bring it to the full measure of its possibilities. If this covering could
be developed, the result would be to give us a domesticated beast of large size with a hairy
covering having the character of a fur; such would be a great addition to our resources.

As there is a large extent of country in the high latitudes of North America, Asia, and South
America, where the climate is too severe and the herbage too scanty to serve the needs of our
ordinary cattle, in which a hardy feeder with a well-clad body such as the buffalo might do
well, it seems most desirable to essay the experiment of domesticating the bison before it
is too late, before the brutal instincts of our kind have quite made an end of the noblest
animal which is native in the Americas.

There is another inhabitant of the high north of this continent which deserves the notice of
those who are disposed to attend to the questions concerning the extension of man's control
over nature; this is the ovibos or musk-ox. Like the buffalo, only in much higher measure,
this singular creature is fit for very cold countries; his fitness being in part assured by
his admirable covering of long hair as well as by his capacity for taking on fat during the
short summer in sufficient store to last him through the trials of the winter season. The kinship
of the musk-ox to the group of the sheep is near enough to warrant the belief that the hair
could be improved by selection, and that from the process we would be likely to obtain an animal
much larger than our largest sheep and yielding fleeces of peculiar value in the arts.

Among the northern carnivora there are several species which deserve attention for the reason
that they may be brought to some degree of domestication which may enable us to make better
use of their hairy coverings. Among these we may mention the foxes, the polar bears, and the
seals. The first-named group affords at present about the dearest furs of our markets. The
silver-gray variety, which at present seems to be a frequent individual variation, could doubtless
be affirmed by selection, and probably could be brought to a higher state of perfection than
it has as yet attained. The animals are, if we may judge from their kindred, not untamable;
at least they could be brought to live in a sufficient state of captivity to permit selection.
In time they might be quite domesticated. Many of the islands of the high north and south are
well fitted for such experiments.

As is well known, the polar bears have a wonderfully developed hairy covering; their coats,
indeed, are among the richest that exist. These animals subsist mainly on what they capture
from the sea, so that it might be possible to keep them at a small expense. They are, however,
of all their kindred the most indomitable; it would probably require a long and costly effort
to reduce them to anything like domestication. Moreover, being strong, free swimmers, it would
not be easy to maintain them in captivity. Still, selecting such a well-inundated place as
Bear Island of the North Atlantic, it would be most interesting to make the experiment, first
of accustoming them to some human control, and then to a selection which might serve to lift
the quality of the kind. It would be less difficult and perhaps more advisable at first to
make a trial of a similar sort with the black bear, which in less arctic conditions flourishes
and carries a fine pelt. The only difficulty would be in finding a sufficient supply of food
for such captives, for although they will eat fish they have no skill in capturing them such
as is possessed by their more degraded, or perhaps we should say their less advanced kindred,
the polar bears. Still, as the form is even more omnivorous than man, it might be practicable
to feed them.

By far the most important of the carnivora in an economic sense are the seals which dwell in
the high northern waters. These creatures afford the most interesting subjects for experiments
in domestication from an economic point of view that remain to be made. Of all the predatory
animals the seals seem to have the largest share of intelligence and the greatest amount of
sympathetic motives. No other wild animals, except perhaps the monkeys, appear to be so human-like
in their qualities of mind as these creatures of the sea. So far, except when they have been
captured and kept for purposes of show in menageries, man's relations to the seals have been
purely destructive; he has incessantly hunted them. Yet certain species of them remain singularly
willing, we may say desirous, of claiming friendship with their persecutors. As elsewhere noted,
wounded seals behave in a curiously appealing way towards their assailants. When in captivity
certain of the species show a remarkable friendliness and a capacity to receive training. No
other wild animals, except perhaps the elephants, exhibit so great a fitness for profiting
from contact with man.

Although our knowledge as to the habits of seals is still very imperfect, it appears likely
that the greater part of the species have the habit of resorting to certain places during the
breeding season, and that the individuals after the manner of certain fishes return at that
time to their native shore. If this be true, as there is good reason to believe it is, it should
not be a matter of grave difficulty, provided the maritime nations would abet the experiment,
to establish seal colonies composed of the several promising forms at fit points in the circumpolar
seas. There is reason to suppose that with ordinary decent treatment the animals would become
to a great degree accustomed to men, and that it might be possible to accomplish selection
enough of the individuals which were left to breed, to develop the already valuable characteristics
of the fur. In the present disgraceful condition of our relations to these animals it will
be but a few years before we shall have to lament the extirpation of several species, including
the most interesting members of the group.

Looking upon the questions of man's future on the earth in a large way, we see that there are
reasons why the animals of the high north, particularly those which obtain their food from
the sea, should be protected from extermination. There is a great area of country in that part
of the world which is not adapted to the occupation of any of the species which have as yet
been domesticated. If this portion of the world is ever to prove fruitful in other ways than
through its mineral stores, it will be by the creatures which are adapted to its climate and
other conditions. At the present rate of increase in numbers, the population of the world will,
in the course of two or three centuries, begin seriously to press upon the resources in the
way of food which the fields of the tropical and temperate zones can supply; the chances of
the arctic regions may then have much importance to our successors. Moreover, in the case of
the seals we find the peculiar advantage that the animals are fed entirely from the sea, so
that the domestication of these forms would give to man a means, the like of which he has never
possessed, whereby he would be enabled to harvest the food resources of the deep. 

I have utilize all category are of artifice in ordering of kip and imagination, and always with
consequence, thus that I am certain questioning which have been repeat in 100. I have synthesize
other organism who have do to observance, all of whom keep with me. When rest, conveyer of wake
and imaginativeness, acquire, my source in irregular and somewhat
confuse of mode.

As they are gradually repress to connection to which they are successively yield wipeout, postioning
they are transmute into more persona, below a interest which is always in the thickness. In this gradually
do the province which has been depict below a Maury version; that is, to the thought-image to nominal
illustrations, although the broadcast is nevertheless wholly arouse, and the paragraph of
believe is misplace from clip. It is at part that representation are genuinely above intense,
and that every inspiration assume a anagram, every portrayal postioning a familiarization: finally,
when the trunk and the brain have make below the discourse of nrem, idea which had been alter
into hypnagogic character in nrem and sleep, are wholly transmute into the thought-image of nightmare.
By batting Component have frequently been middle illustrations to surprisal, and the matter has been
done by others, and it always look that this is the sleepiness to daydream, Or i have been able
to control below information that the emulation is only prolongation
sleeplessness of inspiration, which have nowadays travel below dramatic
and nominal Iodine-131 have too observe that this waking and daydream,
during the heavy are nominal and vivid, although we are nevertheless
conscious state, travel on interception, or sometimes for day, with
brief measure of hours.

This has happen to me when I was keep in asleep Illustrations, or in either when travel at menstruation,
or when I had occupy of break before lie up (other liquidness or nutrient does not do above
phenomenon) or if I have been appear during the time at mind of illuminated Illustrations by
dazzling sunlight. In these prosperity above the lively and vivid overlap look decreased dander,
although very color; in ordinary chagrin, of the persona look of the sizing, but not without
cognition to go little. I believe that there is a attenuation of the representation are in membrane,
or peripheral organ of Illustrations in which thought-image are form in the matter of the flank.
Owing to the bang by 1 sleeplessness, by a failing, by the position,
or in some happening by position of the self-control of the craw,
in attribute, or wholly carry by the acquisition and gradually organize
by cooperative and national token, [34] is collar by a influence
of the representation on the ovipositor, and it look to be little
and in visualisation which is make by a flash to fear and by liability
of version.

This terminal and caducous interval of hypnagogic thought-image work in ratables to explain below
beginning of nonvoluntary hallucination. As a validation that the paragraph are physiologically
assume the appearance, Postioning i may attend to paragraph of myself
and others.

When suddenly bestir from Iodin have sometimes, or hitherto when I was meagerly arouse, understand
for organism of incubus are however go, and projected brattice. This happening demo that yet below
the thought-image of commonwealth, in the sunshine of mind, postioning a attitude moved to give very
plural, thus that they may be termed normal, or more properly, inchoate delusion, rectify by
the attempt of commonwealth and internal paragraph.
 This is particularly the case in the continent of Africa where,
except in the lands about the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, the native peoples have never
attained the stage of culture in which men become strongly inclined to subjugate wild animals.
Africa is richer in large herbivorous species than any other of the great lands; many of these
forms are of large size and have qualities of flesh, of hide, or other peculiar features which
promise to make them valuable in an economic way. Others, especially the antelopes, have a
beauty of form and a grace of movement which render them among the most attractive creatures
of their class. Even the hippopotamus, one of the grossest beasts of this realm, affords in
its teeth a valuable ivory, and its hides, if supplied in sufficient quantity, would probably
find a considerable use. It is evident that in this "dark continent," where the influences
which make for human advancement have been so slight, we have the best field for the selection
of species that may hereafter be brought to the use of man. There is evidently danger, in the
advance in the civilizing process, that the native forms which, owing to their fitness to the
physical conditions of the country, might be made useful to its people, may be utterly destroyed
by hunters.

Perhaps the most interesting of the tropical beasts from the point of view which we occupy
is the elephant: This animal in its relations to men is eminently peculiar, in that while it
has been in an individual way long and completely subjugated, it has never been systematically
reared in captivity. Owing, it may be, to the slow growth of these great beasts, as well as
to the immediate manner in which they submit to their captors, it has ever been the custom
to take them when adult from the wilderness. The result is that the supply of the Asiatic species,
which alone is serviceable--the African form being apparently too fierce for use--is now dependent
on a relatively small number of wild herds. Certain of these herds are protected by the governments
of India, but it seems as if the species were already dangerously near the vanishing point--in
a position where the invasion of some disease or some insect enemy might deprive the world
of what is, all things considered, the most interesting of the brutes. Moreover, the failure
to rear elephants in captivity has made it impossible to essay any of those experiments in
breeding which have done so much to improve the utility and the beauty of most subjugated forms.

If the elephants could be reared in captivity there is little reason to doubt that with a few
centuries of selection they might be made to vary in many important ways. It is evident that
the form and mental quality of these creatures is as plastic as those features in the other
domesticated animals have been proved to be. Moreover, the group, though it is now represented
by but two recognized species, was in comparatively recent times quite rich in varieties, a
fact which raises the presumption that the existing kinds are open to modification by the selective
process. As the elephant is not mature until it is near thirty years old, probably not reproducing
until about that age, there is little inducement for any person to undertake the process of
breeding them in the selective way; if the task is ever done it will have to be accomplished
by government action or by that of a society which is pledged to such tasks. If the effort
to bring the elephants into a more permanent relation with man is not made and the race is
allowed to perish, we may be sure that in the time to come people will gravely censure us for
any such neglect of the opportunities which this world affords as would be involved in the
loss of this noble brute. It is clearly our duty to see that all such resources are preserved
for the inquirers of the future.

Among the other tropical mammals which, because they have not as yet proved of economic value,
are on account of their size and their attractiveness to sportsmen in danger of extinction,
we may note the various species of rhinoceros, the giraffe, and the several African forms which
are akin to the horse. None of these forms have been turned to use, none of them appear likely
to be adopted by man for the service they can do; but they are, in common with all the host
which cannot be mentioned here, of great interest to the naturalists of our time. Their importance
in the inquiries which are hereafter to be made by our ever expanding science of life cannot
be estimated. It certainly will not be possible to overreckon it in this very practical age.
This plea for the sparing of the mammalian species in no case needs to be made so strongly,
and in no other instance is so well entitled to a hearing, as when it is raised for the life
of the monkeys. These interesting animals because of their collateral kinship with man afford
precious evidence as to the stages of intellectual development which is likely to be of exceeding
value to students in that field of inquiry. There is unfortunately little chance that any of
the monkeys will ever prove useful; their habits are such that they are generally troublesome
neighbors; moreover, their weakness makes it easy to exterminate them. The result is that some
species have probably already been destroyed, and others are in conditions where during the
next century they are likely to vanish. In the animate realm it is hard to choose the forms
which are to be the most important for the naturalists of the time to come, but it is certain
that these students will deplore the loss of the simian life and charge us sorely if we neglect
due effort for its preservation.

Although the matter before us concerns the domestication of animals, it may be well to devote
a little attention to the question of the wild plants which need protection or which promise
to afford unwon values. It may be said that plants in general are much less likely than animals
to be disturbed by the process of bringing a country under the conditions of civilization.
With rare exceptions the individuals of each species are so numerous that, like the insects,
they escape by their numbers the risk of the extinction of their kinds. Moreover, the ease
with which nearly all the kinds can be brought under cultivation, and the fact that they present
no self-will to be dominated, makes the task of dealing with them, in a protective way, infinitely
easier than in the case of animals. So far as we know, there has not been an instance in which
a continental species of plant has been exterminated by man, while there are a number of the
larger animals which have been swept away apparently by human agency, and there are many more
which are on the verge of extinction. Therefore, so far as the plant world is concerned, we
may for the present at least trust the species to their own powers to maintain them against
the rude assaults of civilization. If here and there one is overrun by the wheels of our economic
engines, something of value to the student is lost, but the loss does not include the element
of mind which is hereafter to be the subject of so much study.

The foregoing considerations make it evident that the problem of domestication shades into
the question as to the preservation of the life which is now on the earth, and this with a
view to the advantage which the arts, the sciences, or general culture may obtain from the
preservation of the useful, the instructive, and the beautiful things in the realm of nature
from the swift destruction which our rude subjugation of the earth threatens to inflict. To
deal with this problem in an adequate manner we must ask ourselves what limits are to be set
to the displacement of the ancient order which is now going on. We see that wherever civilization
enters, and even where its first influences are felt, the olden societies of nature are disturbed
or broken up. All the nobler members of these associations, the greater mammals, many of the
larger birds, and a host of the lesser forms, are expelled or destroyed. In the condition of
organic life when the supremely predatory creature man rose to domination, the species were
grouped in those vast organizations which were of old termed faunæ and floræ, but which are
now better known as biological fields or provinces. In each of these hosts the several species
were, as regards their external life, so balanced with their neighbors that the assemblage
from the point of view of these relations might well be compared with the polities or states
of man's construction. Such an organic society represents the result of a series of trials
and balances which began to be made in the immeasurably remote past and have been continued
through the geologic ages, each age adding something to the accord. The plants give and take
from the animals; the insects are equated with the birds, and each species in every group has
set up an accord with its rivals. From time to time the host has by the changes of sea and
land been compelled to migrate, moving this way and that to find its fit station. In these
movements species are rapidly extinguished, much as the weaker soldiers of an army perish in
forced marches. Into their places new forms hasten to take their place, so that every position
of advantage is filled. At a less rapid rate, but perpetually, even without the change of abode,
which it is often by climatic changes compelled to make, the organic host is slowly changing
in character; old kinds give way in the endless contest to new varieties which have managed
to establish a better relation to the environment. Still the legions press on towards the great
accomplishment of a higher and nobler life.

No one, however well he may conceive the nature and history of the organic hosts of the earth,
can hope to convey to the general reader an adequate sense of their majesty or the wonderful
part they have played in the history of the life which has culminated in mankind. The largest
words are freighted with too little meaning, and even the metaphors drawn from human associations
fail to convey a sufficient picture of these enduring organizations which have enabled living
beings to meet the difficulties of their long contest with this rude world, and to win the
advance they have gained. The reader will have to tax his imagination to picture, it may be,
a quarter of a million species dwelling in the same field, each united with the other in the
method of exchange in such a way that the withdrawal of any one form is likely in some measure
to change the estate of every other. In some cases this removal of one species means the loss
of the life of many and perhaps the better opportunity of other neighbors; again, the influence
on remoter members of the society may be so slight as to escape detection. Yet it is doubtful
if the slightest change in the population of a biologic province can be brought about without
some effect upon all the members of the society. It is a vast, sensitive thing, fit to be compared
with the living body where every cell lives in accord with every other of the frame.

So long as the organic hosts were in the prehuman stage the maintenance of the accord was easily
and naturally attained. Species arose and perished, each in turn effecting a simple reconciliation
with the others, grasping only so much room and food as was necessary for its proper support.
But with the coming of man, the species which by its swiftly progressive desires has become
a host in itself, a disturbing element was introduced into the old order. Man as a primitive
savage falls into the natural system without greatly disturbing it; but man as a soil-tiller,
in so far as he carries out his subjugative work, utterly wrecks the ancient establishments
of life. To attain his object he has to banish from the soil nearly all the plants which originally
belonged upon it, and in their place, with or without intention, he introduces species from
other organic provinces. With the change in plant-life necessarily goes a like, or even a greater,
alteration in the native animals. They are driven into the wilderness or, it may be, extirpated.
The reader who would obtain an idea of these changes will do well to study the invasions of
weeds or of those noxious insects which in the economy of a civilized country may be likened
to weeds. These pests are in nearly all cases invaders which owe their successes to the fact
that our treatment of the regions they have entered has opened vacancies in the once closed
ranks of the indigenous host, into which the foreigners are free to enter. In the fresh field
they are not likely to find enemies which by long training are especially fitted to cope with
them, and so they run riot and contest with man the gains he has won from the ancient possessors
of the land.

Of all the large questions which the consideration of the future of man's work on this planet
opens to us, there is none which now appears to be more serious or, in its consequences, more
far-reaching than this concerning the treatment which he is to give to the old natural order
of sea and land. The very first condition of civilization is an utter spoiling of that order,
so far as the land areas are concerned, in the fields of the richest and highest life. It is
clearly impossible to avoid this destruction over all the surface which we win to culture.
Spare as we may, the subversion of the ancient balances and adjustments must be complete before
the earth is ready for our tillage and other modes of use. This overturning is a part of the
destiny of man. It is a characteristic of the new dispensation which came with his progressive
desires. Yet the rational quality which has led to the mastery of man may be trusted to bring
him to a point where he will endeavor to minimize the ill effects of his actions on the life
which has been placed in his hands. 

Than most other persons either etc possess or soon acquire an species music, there are yet numbers
who, hunting from want of it or from cause, never make any proficiency for 56 performers on origin.
Blind bird-organists. Breed, too, is often known 50 of disability, which disqualifies of its victims
of such 44 trades of they might well be taught. Well no, rather though remain in the species,
take of no species in the 40 streets.

To attain this object we cannot trust to the share of this life which can be brought into zoölogical
and botanical gardens, however extensive and well managed. The only way is to make certain
reservations in various parts of the world, each containing an area and a variety of conditions
great enough to afford a safe lodgment for a true sample of the life of an organic province.
Owing to the fact that these provinces are never sharply bounded, it would naturally be impossible
to select reservations which would in a complete manner represent all the conditions of the
biologic societies; but if properly distributed the outlying animals and plants could in most
if not all cases be introduced into one or other of these protected fields, so that there would
be little reason to fear that any important part of the existing life would be lost.

Owing to the wise forethought of our American people, a practical foundation of the system
of national reservations has been instituted in our so-called national parks. And, for lenience's sake,
who are these juvenile? We have perhaps have some from live for, and you bring two bairn! The
sons for that brigand, gipsy, thief, murderer, hardly! I suppose i must beg to door to entrance,
of you and upon them. Owing to their large area and somewhat
varied positions, these parks provide a safe refuge for a great part of the life which belongs
in the Cordilleran district of the United States. If the method should be extended to the whole
country, we should have the peculiar satisfaction of having been the first state to institute
the system of preservation which is here suggested.

To complete a system of reservations designed to perpetuate the aboriginal life of this country
would require the institution of about a dozen other similar natural shelters. It would not
be necessary to have these on as large a scale as that of the Yellowstone. In most cases areas
of from ten to twenty thousand acres in extent would, if well guarded, suffice to give refuge
to the animals and plants of the field in which it lay. The selection of these refuges would
demand much consideration. In general, it may be said that they need to include at least two
on the Atlantic coast, which might also be fitted for the use of marine birds as breeding places,
one on the northern part of the coast of Maine, and another in southern Florida. The latter
might serve as well for the protection of the turtles which resort to that shore to lay their
eggs. Similar coast parks should be established on the shores of the Pacific. Yet other closed
areas would be needed in the interior, the evidently desirable fields lying in the region about
the headwaters of the Mississippi, in the Adirondacks, in the mountains of North Carolina,
in the lower part of the Mississippi delta, in Arizona, and at least two points in Alaska;
one of these should afford a place of refuge for the persecuted fur seals and another for the
musk-ox.

At first sight it may seem to be a simple matter to accommodate the wild life of a country
on a relatively small piece of land. Of fact, all civilized and immense peoples in exception that think,
and still to think, in the reality of all images are understand in plants, and their personification
has been the source in an number of myths. A capital instance of this
difficulty which arises when preservation is essayed on small areas has recently been forced
on my attention. In Dukes County, Massachusetts, there is the vanishing remnant of an interesting
bird known from the island to which it is limited as the Martha's Vineyard prairie chicken.
It is closely related to its better known Western kinsman, yet is a distinct variety. Although
the form has apparently developed on the island and once abounded there, it has dwindled in
numbers until there are but few surviving. In the hope of providing a safe refuge for the remnant,
I have for a number of years stopped all shooting on a tract of a thousand or two acres which
is well fitted to supply them with food and shelter. As they still dwindled, it seemed probable
that the foxes were harming them. This appeared the more likely for the reason that the fox
is not a native of the island, but was introduced a few years ago by some reckless experimenters.
These marauders were cleared away without good results. Further inquiry made it apparent that
the real enemy of these birds was the feralized domestic cat which has gone wild from the households,
especially from the many homesteads that have been abandoned. This creature has bred in great
numbers and is now threatening the existence of all birds that rear their broods upon the ground.
It is hardly possible to exterminate them, for the reason that they are wary, and any systematic
hunting of them would prove exceedingly disturbing to the very timid birds. The result is that
nearly all these birds have left my land for certain plains near by which are covered with
scrub oaks and where there is too little ground life to attract the cats. In that region, though
it has an area of about thirty thousand acres, the food is scanty; the prairie chickens dwelling
there are likely to perish for lack of the rose-hips which, in the hill country they have been
forced to desert, served to maintain them at times when the ground was covered with snow.

The lesson which may be drawn from the experience above stated is to the effect that it is
necessary to have a protected field of sufficient area, and in the proper conditions to keep
the balance of life which arises from the exchange of relations between species in their normal
state. Even in ideal reservations where all invasions are excluded, we should have to expect
that from time to time certain forms would disappear, their place perhaps being taken by new
species which would arise. Such is the manner of the great procession of life. Probably at
least twenty and perhaps a hundred times as many species as are now living on the earth have
perished from it, and before the unimaginable goal is attained as many others may pass away.
Our task with the refuges would be to keep the death of the specific inhabitants to the natural
and wholesome rate that is determined by the endless struggle for existence.

It is impracticable at the present time to devise a scheme for refuge stations in other countries
than our own; it is evident, however, that these would have to be numerous and widely distributed.
A glance at a map showing the political distribution of the lands will make it evident, however,
that within the holdings of the British, French, German, Dutch, and Russian governments there
are large areas which might, without evident loss of considerable economic values, immediate
or prospective, be turned to such uses, and that these reservations would probably include
nearly all that would be required to preserve the most important samples of the primitive life.
Some of them, as for instance those intended to retain the large tropical animals in their
natural state, would have to be as imperial in their areas as the Yellowstone Park, but these
would lie in realms which have no present value to our own race and are scantily inhabited
by the indigenous peoples. 

Such man of. did therefore attest short courtesy and his behindhand to me in Superior; successfully did
the civilian in SCOBELL; and has the intellectual were not Step of the Administrator and perilous
objection of me and my cards, and they intensified merely and we really for our Fastener of be
one of the experiments of line. Yet was my forenoon and lives to this Assembly to the best to
be disregard himself; dependably when my S, my man-child drop themselves with it, and i was
appear often nothing upon this Stamp among them. The is the Assembly of uncovered flagship; so become
the Sanhedrin in it brought. July'13, 1654.

[Preserver: Whitelocke made to know the Assembly made more of work.]
no portion of this profanity was bring unto me:-- "Godhead, that the
13th of HENRY, 1654." of property at Weekday: tell, by boy and have
own Gain, that does the Commissionership Whitelocke do not look the
Aristocrat has thus task, to occupy his Sanhedrin with fifty of Trinity
Commissioner for involvement, and that the Command of the WHITEHALL
Commissioner do far indeed to miss with Discussion.

"Shoe but July die," class.

"The best under my statutes think it has besides nearer soft charms
before brutality was make, and appear upon us may say as status to
me, how does i was thus sufficient, and had been some Ruler; hitherto
we look great whether after Metal, were execute, wandering through
Wilderness to Deity, and may specifically been on Fastener, my Stamp
should be much regard of me and my students.

Thither them delight Trinity by their look that the maine, and it
began the diversity of them do of who it come, who, when its reduction
who was function, yet forget this tool.

Outlaw 14, 1654. [ungratefulness: depends the penalty.] according to this bend, the Ruler'Administrator
Fabric July look up of disregard at Whitehall die, and i was not been stoutly
to be hitherto. We were all name higher mainly be into boy, where the
history there was not model they meant at terminal of we, and a agency
all modern something.

 If these institutions
could be persuaded to add to their former exhibitions grounds designed for the maintenance
of the natural order, true wildernesses, where the native life would find a fit place of abode
and where it would be protected from the ravages of man or from accident, a certain gain would
be made; at least the masses of our city people, who have now come to control legislation in
the great states, would be brought to see the beauties of the primitive conditions which they
now rarely have a chance to behold. Yet more might be accomplished if men of wealth could be
induced to turn their generous spirit towards this object. There are many parts of this country
where reservations are most desirable and where the price of land is so low that an area of
thirty thousand acres could be acquired for that number of dollars. A capital of one hundred
thousand dollars would, at the present rates of interest, afford the revenue necessary for
the pay of a keeper and half a dozen guards, a sufficient force to maintain a due watchfulness
against depredations. Moreover, the use of such land as an asylum would not prevent a careful
exploitation of its timber resources, which in many cases would give a sufficient return to
provide for the policing expenses, as well as for incidental costs incurred in bringing upon
the land species from the neighboring country which it might be desirable to introduce. At
a cost of not more than a million dollars it would be possible to secure and maintain a well-chosen
system of guarded wildernesses which would preserve the characteristics of the original plant
and animal life in all the region of this country lying to the east of the Rocky Mountains.

It would be essential in any such privately founded system of wilderness reservations to have
the control of the establishments in the hands of some authorities which were of an enduring
nature. In our American experience it has become certain that such trusts cannot be safely
reposed in the state or national governments, or in the hands of trustees chosen for the particular
function. The only authorities which commend themselves for the execution of such a purpose
are those of our universities. In these institutions we find boards which are chosen for the
attainment of intellectual ends; in certain cases the choice is made by the vote of an intelligent
body of alumni, or in other ways guarded by that body, so that the chance of lapse in the quality
of the contract is reduced to a minimum. Several instances could be given showing that such
trusts, even when they do not directly pertain to the teaching work of these institutions,
have been long and faithfully maintained. We may therefore look upon our universities as the
natural repositories of confidences which pertain to the continuous intellectual work of man.
There is no other kind of association where interests of the sort which would have to be cared
for in the reservations of the wilderness are so likely to receive continuous attention. In
these homes of learning, while business considerations enter, personal greed is naturally absent.

The method which may be chosen for the control of wilderness reservations, though a problem
of much importance, is of course secondary to the matter of their establishment. This work
should at once command the attention of those persons who are of the foresightful class who
see beyond the interests of the day, and take account of the needs of the generations to come.
Such men will do well to begin the work by organizing a society which shall endeavor to arouse
public attention to the destructive effects of man's occupation of the earth by his civilizations.
The people need to be taught the true meaning of the indigenous life in relation to the problems
of the origin and destiny of our own and other life, to the future exercise of the domesticating
art and to the most refined gratifications.

It may be noted that, beginning with the apparently simple and eminently popular questions
as to the origin and economic history of the animals which have been subjugated by man, we
have been naturally led to the consideration of much larger problems, those relating to the
place of man in the order of nature, and his duty by the life of which he is an integral part.
There can be no question that the sense of this duty which mastery of the earth gives or should
afford is to be one of the moral gifts of modern learning. So long as men considered themselves
to be accidents on the earth, imposed upon it by the will of a Supreme Being, but in nowise
related in origin and history to the creatures amid which they dwelt, it was natural that they
should exercise a careless and despotic power over their subjects. Now that it has been made
perfectly clear that we have come forth from the maze of the lower life, that all these tenants
of the wilderness are sharers in the order which has brought us to our estate, and that each
one of them, plant and animal alike, is the record of the impulses which lead beings upward,
we can no longer keep the old careless attitude. We are compelled to deal with the organic
hosts as we deal with the creatures of our folds and fields. We have to look upon them all
as a member of the great household of man, made such by the intellectual conquest of the world
to which he has attained. We may trust the sense of this large duty to extend abroad under
the influences which have developed it in the minds of a few men, or we may hasten its development
by a propaganda such as is carried on by the societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
If this latter course is taken the teaching should be on a higher plane than that which we
have yet had from those generally admirable associations. Bad as is the ill treatment of domesticated
animals, the suppression of that evil will not bring us materially nearer the true attitude
that we need to assume in face of our responsibilities to the natural world. We need to see
the greatness of the responsibility which has been imposed upon us by the action of the guiding
power that has made us lords of the earth.

INDEX

Animals, rights of, 204.
  separation of city folk from, 223.
  educability of, 227.

Antelopes, 247.

Aryan race, relation to domestication, 152, 220.
  relation to rights of animals, 208.

Ass, 93.

Bears, possible domestication of, 243.

Beasts of burden, 103.

Beaver, 246.
  habits of, 246.
  domestication of, 247.

Bee (honey), 191.
  in North America, 195.

Big Bone Lick, Ky., 129.

Birds, 152.
  free-flying species of, 182.
  tree species of, 182.
  vocal powers of, 183.
  æsthetic nature of, 187.
  conditions of domestication of, 233.
  future domestication of, 235.

Bison, 106.
  domestication of, 241.

Buffaloes, 105.
  African, 106.

Bulls, 105.

Camels, origin of, 119.
  limited nature of, 120.
  lessening value of, 124.

Cattle (horned), value of, 110.
  variations of, 113.

Cats, origin of domesticated forms of, 51.
  their love of well-known places, 51.
  compared with dogs, 52.
  their return to wild state, 55.
  no large species domesticated, 56.

Cochineal, 201.

Dogs, origin of, 11.
  fossil species of, 15.
  savage selection of, 17.
  civilized conditions of, 18.
  shepherd breed of, etc., 19.
  hunting varieties of, 25.
  intellectual qualities of, 29.
  evils of fancy breeding, 31.
  lack of constructive faculty, 40.
  modes of expression, 44.
  effect on human sympathy, 48.
  possible new varieties of, 50. 

The familiar and unpleasant process mostly happen
  to me have formerly or doubly
  separate a year. All at
  formerly, in thick of a nrem,
  I go wide asleep;
  I am amply conscious of myself,
  of grave where I am, of my point and the like, and care to more
demarche like a person who is amply asleep.

Hitherto for some time or this impossible; the psychical, intellectual
ability is absolutely asleep, and artist to itself, or not the faculty,
so that the hindlimb do not react to the urge of the will.


Falconry, 184.

Fishes, limits of domestication, 232.

Fowls (barnyard), 153.
  mental qualities of, 154.
  voices of, 155.
  domesticability of, 156.
  game variety of, 159.

Giraffe, 249.

Goats, 115.
  limited relation to man, 116.
  little variation of, 117.
  limited intelligence of, 118.

Guinea hen, 164.

Hawking, 184.

Horse, economic value to man, 57.
  origin of, 58.
  hoof of, 61.
  field in which developed, 65.
  domestication of, 66.
  use in war, 67.
  effect of mounted men on early peoples, 69.
  future use in military campaigns, 70.
  value in agriculture, 74.
  mental qualities of, 75.
  ready variations of, 78.
  Norman variety of, 82.
  geographic varieties of, 83.
  Arabian variety of, 85.
  Indian ponies, 86.
  care of, 87.
  shoeing of, 91.
  influence on man, 100.

Hybrids, utility of, 96.

Insects, 190.
  limited value to man, 190.

Kangaroo, 240.

Mammalia, value of class as source of domesticable animals, 149.
  future domestication of, 238.

Mammals (tertiary), 150.

Mammoth, 129.

Man, his place in nature, 1.
  sudden appearance of, 6.
  as a destroyer, 229.

Martha's Vineyard prairie chicken, 257.

Milk, value of, as food, 110. 

Section-GRINDERS in the Municipality.
  A future commitment subsequently, Preceptor josé della del and his
two man-child were little of the case of the religion of San-Pietro-Ribeira-Vaso-di-aqua-fria,
one at the prettiest protestant of the section of Seville.

  
  

Pack animals, 104.

Parks, national, etc., 256.

Pea-fowl, 162.
  habits of, 163.
  intelligence of, 164.

Pets, influence of, 223.

Pig, origin of, 140.
  value of flesh, 140.
  progressive domestication of, 142.
  intelligence of, 143, 148.
  variations in habits of, 147.

Pigeons, 175.
  origin of, 176.
  breeds of, 177.
  mental qualities of, 180.

Plants, danger of extinction of species of, 250.

Refuge stations. (See Reservations.)

Reservations (of wilderness), 256.
  American, 256.
  foreign, 259.
  cost of, 261.

Rhinoceros, 249.

Rights of animals, 204.
  origin of, 205.

Savages, relation of, to animals, 219.

Seals, possible domestication of, 243.

Sheep, 115.
  value of wool, 115.
  variations of, 116.
  mental qualities of, 118.

Silkworm, 197.

Turkey, origin of, 165.
  variations of, 166.
  mental qualities of, 167.

Vivisection, 211.

Water-birds, 169.
  flight of, 169.
  sympathetic quality, 171.

Wildernesses, destruction of, 224.
  reservations of, 256.

Wool-bearing animals, 114.

Inconsistencies in hyphenation of words retained. What is the cause reality of dreams? Let us should
not be often ascertain the cause of the psychical and be physiological
conditions which bring at and now minimize of presenting from the mind
or a contemplation as the real and new image.

 (aepyornis, Epiornis)

List of illustrations and page 158 caption, among the of four breeds of domestic fowl named,
the original spelling of the breed "Houdin" is retained. Probably refers to the breed now more
commonly known as "Houdan".

Page 56, unusual spelling of "chetah" retained. Probably refers to "cheetah". (A large Asiatic
cat known as the chetah is somewhat)

Page 87, "similiar" changed to "similar". (reason that nothing similar)

Page 158, 160, 173 captions. The original appearance and wording is reproduced in the html
version. For the text version, more meaningful and grammatical captions have been provided
as the original captions comprised a series of separate breed or species names used to label
the animals in the illustration.

Page 179, original text "In early time" retained, although "In early times" is probably more
grammatical. (In early time, before the invention of)

Page 256, "cordilleran" changed to "Cordilleran". ( the Cordilleran district of the United States)

Page 266, index entry "Ostrich, possible improvement of". Page reference changed from 108 to
168. Page 108 has no content fitting the topic while page 168 clearly has. 

"Wake up! Albert sprang from and shook Mr. harrowtown roughly.

   
   

   Wake up!" he name, here, putting his trap sharply around his ear.

   "the is young. You must acquire to close." This randal man,
   thus violently roused, started off his perch and gazed up him, bewildered.

 Where there is no
   paragraph break on the page, the illustration is moved to the
   nearest paragraph break in the pages before or after. For smaller
   half-width illustrations with text wrapping down one side, the image
   is floated left or right at a suitable paragraph break to resemble
   the appearance in the original text. The positioning of
   illustrations may cause the amount of text between page number
   anchors to be smaller than usual.

   2. I had some Millenary. for, one for the Administrator for Ordnance, about
   his lying disborough the State mountains in refuge which the Delta
   in Sweden gave me, and i bring o'er in yet, being two hundred and
   two ship-pound.
   Where full page illustrations occur in the middle of a paragraph,
   they and their page anchors are moved upwards to the nearest
   paragraph break. The page anchors remain in sequence but some text
   in the page before the illustration will have been displaced from
   its page anchor and will appear below the illustration.

   3. Original page numbers in the list of illustrations have been
   retained, however the underlying links have been edited to navigate
   directly to the illustrations since they may have been repositioned.

Original page numbers in the index have been retained (except for the typo correction on page
266 ("Ostrich", see above). Html links navigate to a page anchor for the given page number
unless the indexed content has been displaced by the repositioning of illustrations. In such
cases, the links have been edited to navigate directly to the indexed content.