When the first squash seeds appear it is time to begin sowing cucumbers, starting a new batch
each week until one emerges. When the cucumbers first germinate, it's time to try melons.

Approaching cucurbits this way ensures that you'll get the earliest possible germination while
being protected against the probability that cold, damp weather will prevent germination or
permanently spoil the growth prospects of the earlier seedlings.

Cucumbers

Sowing date: About May 5 to 15 at Elkton.

Spacing: Most varieties usually run five about 3 feet from the hill. Space the hills about
5 to 6 feet apart in all directions.

Irrigation: Like melons. Regular and increasing amounts of fertigation will increase the yield
several hundred percent.

Varieties: I've had very good results dry-gardening Amira II (TSC), even without any fertigation
at all. It is a Middle Eastern[-]style variety that makes pickler-size thin-skinned cukes that
need no peeling and have terrific flavor. The burpless or Japanese sorts don't seem to adapt
well to drought. Most slicers dry-garden excellently. Apple or Lemon are similar novelty heirlooms
that make very extensive vines with aggressive roots and should be given a foot or two more
elbow room. I'd avoid any variety touted as being for pot or patio, compact, or short-vined,
because of a likely linkage between its vine structure and root system.

Eggplant

Grown without regular sprinkler irrigation, eggplant seems to get larger and yield sooner and
more abundantly. I suspect this delicate and fairly drought-resistant tropical species does
not like having its soil temperature lowered by frequent watering.

Sowing date: Set out transplants at the usual time, about two weeks after the tomatoes, after
all frost danger has passed and after nights have stably warmed up above 50 degree F.

Spacing: Double dig and deeply fertilize the soil under each transplant. Separate plants by
about 3 feet in rows about 4 feet apart.

Irrigation: Will grow and produce a few fruit without any watering, but a bucket of fertigation
every three to four weeks during summer may result in the most luxurious, hugest, and heaviest-bearing
eggplants you've ever grown.

Varieties: I've noticed no special varietal differences in ability to tolerate dryish soil.
I've had good yields from the regionally adapted varieties Dusky Hybrid, Short Tom, and Early One.

Endive

A biennial member of the chicory family, endive quickly puts down a deep taproot and is naturally
able to grow through prolonged drought. Because endive remains bitter until cold weather, it
doesn't matter if it grows slowly through summer, just so long as rapid leaf production resumes
in autumn.

Sowing date: On irrigated raised beds endive is sown around August 1 and heads by mid-October.
The problem with dry-gardened endive is that if it is spring sown during days of increasing
daylength when germination of shallow-sown small seed is a snap, it will bolt prematurely.
The crucial moment seems to be about June 1. April/May sowings bolt in July/August,: after
June 1, bolting won't happen until the next spring, but germination won't happen without watering.
One solution is soaking the seeds overnight, rinsing them frequently until they begin to sprout,
and fluid drilling them.

Spacing: The heads become huge when started in June. Sow in rows 4 feet apart and thin gradually
until the rosettes are 3 inches in diameter, then thin to 18 inches apart.

Irrigation: Without a drop of moisture the plants, even as tiny seedlings, will grow steadily
but slowly all summer, as long as no other crop is invading their root zone. The only time
I had trouble was when the endive row was too close to an aggressive row of yellow crookneck
squash. About August, the squash roots began invading the endive's territory and the endive
got wilty.

A light side-dressing of complete organic fertilizer or compost in late September will grow
the hugest plants imaginable.

Varieties: Curly types seem more tolerant to rain and frost during winter than broad-leaf Batavian
varieties. I prefer President (TSC).

Herbs

Most perennial and biennial herbs are actually weeds and wild hillside shrubs from Mediterranean
climates similar to that of Southern California. They are adapted to growing on winter rainfall
and surviving seven to nine months without rainfall every summer. In our climate, merely giving
them a little more elbow room than usually offered, thorough weeding, and side-dressing the
herb garden with a little compost in fall is enough coddling. Annuals such as dill and cilantro
are also very drought tolerant. Basil, however, needs considerable moisture.

Kale

Depending on the garden for a significant portion of my annual caloric intake has gradually
refined my eating habits. Years ago I learned to like cabbage salads as much as lettuce. Since
lettuce freezes out many winters (19-21 degree F), this adjustment has proved very useful.
Gradually I began to appreciate kale, too, and now value it as a salad green far more than
cabbage. This personal adaptation has proved very pro-survival, because even savoy cabbages
do not grow as readily or yield nearly as much as kale. And kale is a tad more cold hardy than
even savoy cabbage.

You may be surprised to learn that kale produces more complete protein per area occupied per
time involved than any legume, including alfalfa. If it is steamed with potatoes and then mashed,
the two vegetables complement and flavor each other. Our region could probably subsist quite
a bit more healthfully than at present on potatoes and kale. The key to enjoying kale as a
salad component is varietal choice, preparation, and using the right parts of the plant. Read on.

Sowing date: With irrigation, fast-growing kale is usually started in midsummer for use in
fall and winter. But kale is absolutely biennial--started in March or April, it will not bolt
until the next spring. The water-wise gardener can conveniently sow kale while cool, moist
soil simplifies germination. Starting this early also produces a deep root system before the
soil dries much, and a much taller, very useful central stalk on oleracea types, while early
sown Siberian (Napa) varieties tend to form multiple rosettes by autumn, also useful at harvest
time.

Spacing: Grow like broccoli, spaced 4 feet apart.

Irrigation: Without any water, the somewhat stunted plants will survive the summer to begin
rapid growth as soon as fall rains resume. With the help of occasional fertigation they grow
lushly and are enormous by September. Either way, there still will be plenty of kale during
fall and winter.

Harvest: Bundles of strong-flavored, tough, large leaves are sold in supermarkets but are the
worst-eating part of the plant. If chopped finely enough, big raw leaves can be masticated
and tolerated by people with good teeth. However, the tiny leaves are far tenderer and much
milder. The more rosettes developed on Siberian kales, the more little leaves there are to
be picked. By pinching off the central growing tip in October and then gradually stripping
off the large shading leaves, oleracea varieties may be encouraged to put out dozens of clusters
of small, succulent leaves at each leaf notch along the central stalk. The taller the stalk
grown during summer, the more of these little leaves there will be. Only home gardeners can
afford the time to hand pick small leaves.

