The Jesuits constantly admit the laity, even married, into their company. This fact is certain.
There is no doubt that Des Noyers, Secretary of State under Louis XIII., was of this number,
or that many others have been so too.  These licentiates make the same vow as the Jesuits,
as far as their condition admits: that is, unrestricted obedience to the General, and to the
superiors of the company.  They are obliged to supply the place of the vows of poverty and
chastity, by promising to give all the service and all the protection in their power to the
Company, above all, to be entirely submissive to the superiors and to their confessor. They
are obliged to perform, with exactitude, such light exercises of piety as their confessor may
think adapted to the circumstances of their lives, and that he simplifies as much as he likes.
It answers the purpose of the Company to ensure to itself those hidden auxiliaries whom it
lets off cheaply.  But nothing must pass through their minds, nothing must come to their knowledge
that they do not reveal to their confessor; and that which is not a secret of the conscience,
to the superiors, if the confessor thinks fit.  In everything, too, they must obey without
comment, the superior and the confessors.

It has been pretended that Pere Tellier had inspired the King, long before his death, with
the desire to be admitted, on this footing, into the Company; that he had vaunted to him the
privileges and plenary indulgences attached to it; that he had persuaded him that whatever
crimes had been committed, and whatever difficulty there might be in making amends for them,
this secret profession washed out all, and infallibly assured salvation, provided that the
vows were faithfully kept; that the General of the Company was admitted into the secret with
the consent of the King; that the King pronounced the vows before Pere Tellier; that in the
last days of his life they were heard, the one fortifying, the other resposing upon these promises;
that, at last, the King received from Pere Tellier the final benediction of the Company, as
one of its members; that Pere Tellier made the King offer up prayers, partly heard, of a kind
to leave no doubt of the matter; and that he had given him the robe, or the almost imperceptible
sign, as it were, a sort of scapulary, which was found upon him.  To conclude, the majority
of those who approached the King in his last moments attributed his penitence to the artifices
and persuasions of the Jesuits, who, for temporal interests, deceive sinners even up to the
edge of the tomb, and conduct them to it in profound peace by a path strewn with flowers.

However it is but fair to say, that Marechal, who was very trustful, assured me he had never
perceived anything which justified this idea, and that he was persuaded there was not the least
truth in it; and I think, that although he was not always in the chamber or near the bed, and
although Pere Tellier might mistrust and try to deceive him, still if the King had been made
a Jesuit as stated, Marechal must have had sore knowledge or some suspicion of the circumstance.