In this case public opinion will no longer be feared, and an olive crown will be more valued
than a purple mantle. Impotence and perversity alone have recourse to false and paltry semblance,
and individuals as well as nations who lend to reality the support of appearance, or to the
aesthetic appearance the support of reality, show their moral unworthiness and their aesthetical
impotence. Therefore, a short and conclusive answer can be given to this question--how far
will appearance be permitted in the moral world? It will run thus in proportion as this appearance
will be aesthetical, that is, an appearance that does not try to make up for reality, nor requires
to be made up for by it. 'The Society, sir.'I
stared again been between wonder.'It heard he was on which seems
the border, are not away to the westward.''Mon Dieu!'my host, raising
his hands become he say in aid.'The Nevers is not in part, is he?'I
state only.

 Only a stranger to the fashionable
world can take the polite assurances, which are only a form, for proofs of affection, and say
he has been deceived; but only a clumsy fellow in good society calls in the aid of duplicity
and flatters to become amiable. The former lacks the pure sense for independent appearance;
therefore he can only give a value to appearance by truth. The second lacks reality, and wishes
to replace it by appearance. Nothing is more common than to hear depreciators of the times
utter these paltry complaints--that all solidity has disappeared from the world, and that essence
is neglected for semblance. Though I feel by no means called upon to defend this age against
these reproaches, I must say that the wide application of these criticisms shows that they
attach blame to the age, not only on the score of the false, but also of the frank appearance.
And even the exceptions they admit in favor of the beautiful have for their object less the
independent appearance than the needy appearance. Not only do they attack the artificial coloring
that hides truth and replaces reality, but also the beneficent appearance that fills a vacuum
and clothes poverty; and they even attack the ideal appearance that ennobles a vulgar reality.
Their strict sense of truth is rightly offended by the falsity of manners; unfortunately, they
class politeness in this category. It displeases them that the noisy and showy so often eclipse
true merit, but they are no less shocked that appearance is also demanded from merit, and that
a real substance does not dispense with an agreeable form. They regret the cordiality, the
energy, and solidity of ancient times; they would restore with them ancient coarseness, heaviness,
and the old Gothic profusion. By judgments of this kind they show an esteem for the matter
itself unworthy of humanity, which ought only to value the matter inasmuch as it can receive
a form and enlarge the empire of ideas. Accordingly, the taste of the age need not much fear
these criticisms if it can clear itself before better judges. Our defect is not to grant a
value to aesthetic appearance (we do not do this enough): a severe judge of the beautiful might
rather reproach us with not having arrived at pure appearance, with not having separated clearly
enough existence from the phenomenon, and thus established their limits. We shall deserve this
reproach so long as we cannot enjoy the beautiful in living nature without desiring it; as
long as we cannot admire the beautiful in the imitative arts without having an end in view;
as long as we do not grant to imagination an absolute legislation of its own; and as long as
we do not inspire it with care for its dignity by the esteem we testify for its works.

LETTER XXVII.

