Fred held his tongue, for though his memory was rather cloudy about the early part of his illness,
he did remember having seen her look greatly harassed one day lately when he had been arguing
against Philip Carey.

Uncle Geoffrey proceeded to gather up some of the outlines which Henrietta had left on the
sofa. "I like those very much," said Fred, "especially the Fight with the Dragon."

"You know Schiller's poem on it?" said Uncle Geoffrey.

"Yes, Henrietta has it in German."

"Well, it is what I should especially recommend to your consideration."

"I am afraid it will be long enough before I am able to go out on a dragon-killing expedition,"
said Fred, with a weary helpless sigh.

"Fight the dragon at home, then, Freddy. Now is the time for--

     'The duty hardest to fulfil,
     To learn to yield our own self-will.'"

"There is very little hasty pudding in the case," said Fred, rather disconsolately, and at
the same time rather drolly, and with a sort of resolution of this kind, "I will try then,
I will not bother mamma, let that Carey serve me as he may. I will not make a fuss, if I can
help it, unless he is very unreasonable indeed, and when I get well I will submit to be coddled
in an exemplary manner; I only wonder when I shall feel up to anything again! O! what a nuisance
it is to have this swimming head and aching knees, all by the fault of that Carey!"

Uncle Geoffrey said no more, for he thought a hint often was more useful than a lecture, even
if Fred had been in a state for the latter, and besides he was in greater request than ever
on this last evening, so much so that it seemed as if no one was going to spare him even to
have half an hour's talk with his wife. He did find the time for this at last, however, and
his first question was, "What do you think of the little Bee?"

"I think with great hope, much more satisfactorily than I have been able to do for some time
past," was the answer.

"Poor child, she has felt it very deeply," said he, "I have been grieved to have so little
time to bestow on her."

"I am disposed to think," said Mrs. Geoffrey Langford, thoughtfully, "that it was the best
thing for her to be thrown on herself. Too much talk has always been the mischief with her,
as with many another only child, and it struck me to-day as a very good sign that she said
so little. There was something very touching in the complete absence of moralizing to-day."

"None of her sensible sayings," said her father, with a gratified though a grave smile. "It
was perfectly open confession, and yet with no self in it. Ever since the accident there has
been a staidness and sedateness about her manner which seemed like great improvement, as far
as I have seen. And when it was proposed for her to go to Lady Susan, I was much pleased with
her, she was so simple: 'Very well,' she said, 'I hope I shall be able to make her comfortable:'
no begging off, no heroism. And really, Beatrice, don't you think we could make some other
arrangement? It is too great a penance for her, poor child. Lady Susan will do very well, and
I can have an eye to her; I am much inclined to leave the poor little Queen here with you."

"No, no, Geoffrey," said his wife, "that would never do: I do not mean on my aunt's account,
but on the Busy Bee's; I am sure, wish it as we may," and the tears were in her eyes, "this
is no time for even the semblance of neglecting a duty for her sake."

"Not so much hers as yours," said Mr. Geoffrey Langford, "you have more on your hands than
I like to leave you alone to encounter, and she is a valuable little assistant. Besides you
have been without her so long, it is your turn to keep her now."

"No, no, no," she repeated, though not without an effort, "it is best as it is settled for
all, and decidedly so for me, for with her to write to me about you every day, and to look
after you, I shall be a hundred times more at ease than if I thought you were working yourself
to death with no one to remonstrate."

So it remained as before decided, and the pain that the decision cost both mother and daughter
was only to be inferred by the way in which they kept close together, as if determined not
to lose unnecessarily one fragment of each other's company; but they had very few moments alone
together, and those were chiefly employed in practical matters, in minute directions as to
the little things that conduced to keep Lady Susan in good humour, and above all, the arrangements
for papa's comfort. There was thus not much time for Beatrice to spend with Henrietta, nor
indeed would much have resulted if there had been more. As she grew more at ease about her
brother, Henrietta had gradually resumed her usual manner, and was now as affectionate to Beatrice
as ever, but she was quite unconscious of her previous unkindness, and therefore made no attempt
to atone for it. Queen Bee had ceased to think of it, and if a reserve had grown up between
the two girls, they neither of them perceived it.

Mr. Geoffrey Langford and his daughter set out on their return to London so early the next
morning that hardly any of the family were up; but their hurried breakfast in the grey of morning
was enlivened by Alex, who came in just in time to exchange some last words with Uncle Geoffrey
about his school work, and to wish Queen Bee good-bye, with hopes of a merrier meeting next summer.

CHAPTER XVI.

Mrs. Geoffrey Langford had from the first felt considerable anxiety for her sister-in-law,
who, though cheerful as ever, began at length to allow that she felt worn out, and consented
to spare herself more than she had hitherto done. The mischief was, however, not to be averted,
and after a few days of increasing languor, she was attacked by a severe fit of the spasms,
to which she had for several years been subject at intervals, and was obliged to confine herself
entirely to her own room, relying with complete confidence on her sister for the attendance
on her son.

It was to her, however, that Mrs. Geoffrey Langford wished most to devote herself; viewing
her case with more uneasiness than that of Frederick, who was decidedly on the fair road to
convalescence; and she only gave him as much time as was necessary to satisfy his mother, and
to superintend the regulation of his room. He had all the society he wanted in his sister,
who was always with him, and in grandpapa and grandmamma, whose short and frequent visits he
began greatly to enjoy. He had also been more amenable to authority of late, partly in consequence
of his uncle's warning, partly because it was not quite so easy to torment an aunt as a mother,
and partly too because, excepting always the starving system, he had nothing in particular
of which to complain. His mother's illness might also have its effect in subduing him; but
it did not dwell much on his spirits, or Henrietta's, as they were too much accustomed to her
ill health to be easily alarmed on her account.

It was the last day of the holidays, and Alexander was to come late in the afternoon--Fred's
best time in the day--to take his leave. All the morning Fred was rather out of spirits, and
talked to Henrietta a good deal about his school life. It might have been a melancholy day
if he had been going back to school, but it was more sad to be obliged to stay away from the
world where he had hitherto been measuring his powers, and finding his most exciting interests.
It was very mortifying to be thus laid helplessly aside; a mere nobody, instead of an important
and leading member of a community; at such an age too that it was probable that he would never
return there again.

He began to describe to Henrietta all the scenes where he would be missing, but not missed;
the old cathedral town, with its nest of trees, and the chalky hills; the quiet river creeping
through the meadows: the "beech-crowned steep," girdled in with the "hollow trench that the
Danish pirate made;" the old collegiate courts, the painted windows of the chapel, the surpliced
scholars,--even the very shops in the streets had their part in his description: and then falling
into silence he sighed at the thought that there he would be known no more,--all would go on
as usual, and after a few passing inquiries and expressions of compassion, he would be forgotten;
his rivals would pass him in the race of distinction; his school-boy career be at an end.

His reflections were interrupted by Mrs. Langford's entrance with Aunt Geoffrey, bringing a
message of invitation from grandpapa to Henrietta, to walk with him to Sutton Leigh. She went;
and Aunt Geoffrey, after putting a book within Fred's reach, and seeing that he and grandmamma
were quite willing to be companionable, again returned to his mother.

Mrs. Langford thought him low and depressed, and began talking about his health, and the present
mode of treatment,--a subject on which they were perfectly agreed: one being as much inclined
to bestow a good diet as the other could be to receive it. If his head was still often painfully
dizzy and confused; if his eyes dazzled when he attempted to read for a long time together;
if he could not stand or walk across the room without excessive giddiness--what was that but
the effect of want of nourishment? "If there was a craving, that was a sure sign that the thing
was wholesome." So she said, and her grandson assented with his whole heart.

In a few minutes she left the room, and presently returned with a most tempting-looking glass
of clear amber-coloured jelly.

"O, grandmamma!" said Fred, doubtfully, though his eyes positively lighted up at the sight.

"Yes, my dear, I had it made for your mamma, and she says it is very good. It is as clear as
possible, and quite innocent; I am sure it must do you good."

"Thank you! O, thank you! It does look very nice," said Fred, gazing on it with wistful eyes,
"but really I do not think I ought."

"If it was to do you any harm, I am sure I should not think of such a thing," said Mrs. Langford.
"But I have lived a good many more years in the world than these young people, and I never
saw any good come of all this keeping low. There was old Mr. Hilton, now, that attended all
the neighbourhood round when I was a girl; he kept you low enough while the fever was on you,
but as soon as it was gone, why then reinvigorate the system,--that was what he used to say."

"Just like old Clarke, of Rocksand!" sighed Fred. "I know my system would like nothing better
than to be re-invigorated with that splendid stuff; but you would know it would put them all
in a dreadful state if they knew it."

"Never mind," said grandmamma; "'tis all my doing, you know. Come, to oblige me, taste it,
my dear."

"One spoonful," said Fred--"to oblige grandmamma," added he to himself: and he let grandmamma
lift him on the cushions as far as he could bear to have his head raised. He took the spoonful,
then started a little,--"There is wine in it!" said he.

"A very little--just enough to give it a flavour; it cannot make any difference. Do you like
it, my dear?" as the spoon scooped out another transparent rock. "Ay, that is right! I had
the receipt from my old Aunt Kitty, and nobody ever could make it like Judith."

"I am in for it now," thought Fred. "Well, 'tis excellent," said he; "capital stuff! I feel
it all down to my fingers' ends," added he with a smile, as he returned the glass, after fishing
in vain for the particles remaining in the small end.

"That is right; I am so glad to see you enjoy it!" said grandmamma, hurrying off with the empty
glass with speed at which Fred smiled, as it implied some fears of meeting Aunt Geoffrey. He
knew the nature of his own case sufficiently to be aware that he had acted very imprudently,--that
is to say, his better sense was aware--but his spirit of self-will made him consider all these
precautions as nonsense, and was greatly confirmed by his feeling himself much more fresh and
lively. Grandmamma returned to announce Alexander and Willy, who soon followed her, and after
shaking hands, stood silent, much shocked at the alteration in Fred's appearance.

This impression, however, soon passed off, as Fred began to talk over school affairs in a very
animated manner; sending messages to his friends, discussing the interests of the coming half-year,
the games, the studies, the employments; Alex lamenting Fred's absence, engaging to write,
undertaking numerous commissions, and even prognosticating his speedy recovery, and attainment
of that cynosure,--the prize. Never had the two cousins met so cordially, or so enjoyed their
meeting. There was no competition; each could afford to do the other justice, and both felt
great satisfaction in doing so; and so high and even so loud became their glee, that Alex could
scarcely believe that Fred was not in perfect health. At last Aunt Geoffrey came to put an
end to it; and finding Fred so much excited, she made Alex bring his blunt honest farewells
and good wishes to a speedy conclusion, desired Fred to lie quiet and rest, and sat down herself
to see that he did so.

Fred could not easily be brought to repose; he went on talking fast and eagerly in praise of
Alex, and in spite of her complete assent, he went on more and more vehemently, just as if
he was defending Alex from some one who wanted to detract from his merits. She tried reading
to him, but he grew too eager about the book; and at last she rather advanced the time for
dressing for dinner, both for herself and Henrietta, and sent Bennet to sit with him, hoping
thus perforce to reduce him to a quiescent state. He was by this means a little calmed for
the rest of the evening; but so wakeful and restless a night ensued, that he began to be alarmed,
and fully came to the conclusion that Philip Carey was in the right after all. Towards morning,
however, a short sleep visited him, and he awoke at length quite sufficiently refreshed to
be self-willed as ever; and, contrary to advice, insisted on leaving his bed at his usual hour.

Philip Carey came at about twelve o'clock, and was disappointed as well as surprised to find
him so much more languid and uncomfortable, as he could not help allowing that he felt. His
pulse, too, was unsatisfactory; but Philip thought the excitement of the interview with Alex
well accounted for the sleepless night, as well as for the exhaustion of the present day: and
Fred persuaded himself to believe so too.

Henrietta did not like to leave him to-day, but she was engaged to take a ride with grandpapa,
who felt as if the little Mary of years long gone by was restored to him, when he had acquired
a riding companion in his granddaughter. Mrs. Langford undertook to sit with Fred, and Mrs.
Geoffrey Langford, who had been at first afraid that she would be too bustling a nurse for
him just now, seeing that he was evidently impatient to be left alone with her, returned to
Mrs. Frederick Langford, resolving, however, not to be long absent.

In that interval Mrs. Langford brought in the inviting glass, and Fred, in spite of his good
sense, could not resist it. Perhaps the recent irritation of Philip's last visit made him more
willing to act in opposition to his orders. At any rate, he thought of little save of swallowing
it before Aunt Geoffrey should catch him in the fact, in which he succeeded; so that grandmamma
had time to get the tell-tale glass safely into the store-closet just as Mrs. Frederick Langford's
door was opened at the other end of the passage.

Fred's sofa cushions were all too soft or too hard that afternoon,--too high or too low; there
was a great mountain in the middle of the sofa, too, so that he could not lie on it comfortably.
The room was chilly though the fire was hot, and how grandmamma did poke it! Fred thought she
did nothing else the whole afternoon; and there was a certain concluding shovel that she gave
to the cinders, that very nearly put him in a passion. Nothing would make him comfortable till
Henrietta came in, and it seemed very long before he heard the paddock gate, and the horses'
feet upon the gravel. Then he grew very much provoked because his sister went first to her
mamma's room; and it was grandpapa who came to him full of a story of Henrietta's good management
of her horse when they suddenly met the hounds in a narrow lane. In she came, at last, in her
habit, her hair hanging loosely round her face, her cheeks and eyes lighted up by the exercise,
and some early primroses in her hand, begging his pardon for having kept him waiting, but saying
she thought he did not want her directly, as he had grandpapa.

Nevertheless he scolded her, ordered her specimens of the promise of spring out of the room
on an accusation of their possessing a strong scent, made her make a complete revolution on
his sofa, and then insisted on her going on with Nicolo de Lapi, which she was translating
to him from the Italian. Warm as the room felt to her in her habit, she sat down directly,
without going to take it off; but he was not to be thus satisfied. He found fault with her
for hesitating in her translation, and desired her to read the Italian instead; then she read
first so fast that he could not follow, and then so slowly that it was quite unbearable, and
she must go on translating. With the greatest patience and sweetest temper she obeyed; only
when next he interrupted her to find fault, she stopped and said gently, "Dear Fred, I am afraid
you are not feeling so well."

"Nonsense! What should make you think so? You think I am cross, I suppose. Well, never mind,
I will go on for myself," said he, snatching the book.

Henrietta turned away to hide her tears, for she was too wise to vindicate herself.

"Are you crying? I am sure I said nothing to cry about; I wish you would not be so silly."

"If you would only let me go on, dear Fred," said she, thinking that occupying him would be
better than arguing. "It is so dark where you are, and I will try to get on better. There is
an easier piece coming."

Fred agreed, and she went on without interruption for some little time, till at last he grew
so excited by the story as to be very angry when the failing light obliged her to pause. She
tried to extract some light from the fire, but this was a worse offence than any; it was too
bad of her, when she knew how he hated both the sound of poking, and that horrible red flickering
light which always hurt his eyes. This dislike, which had been one of the symptoms of the early
part of his illness, so alarmed her that she had thoughts of going to call Aunt Geoffrey, and
was heartily glad to see her enter the room.

"Well, how are you going on?" she said, cheerfully. "Why, my dear, how hot you must be in that
habit!"

"Rather," said poor Henrietta, whose face, between the heat and her perplexity, was almost
crimson. "We have been reading 'Nicolo,' and I am very much afraid it is as bad as Alex's visit,
and has excited Fred again."

"I am quite sick of hearing that word excitement!" said Fred, impatiently.

"Almost as tired as of having your pulse felt," said Aunt Geoffrey. "But yet I must ask you
to submit to that disagreeable necessity."

Fred moved pettishly, but as he could not refuse, he only told Henrietta that he could not
bear any one to look at him while his pulse was felt.

"Will you fetch me a candle, my dear?" said Aunt Geoffrey, amazed as well as terrified by the
fearful rapidity of the throbs, and trying to acquire sufficient composure to count them calmly.
The light came, and still she held his wrist, beginning her reckoning again and again, in the
hope that it was only some momentary agitation that had so quickened them.

"What! 'tis faster?" asked Fred, speaking in a hasty alarmed tone, when she released him at last.

"You are flushed, Fred," she answered very quietly, though she felt full of consternation.
"Yes, faster than it ought to be; I think you had better not sit up any longer this evening,
or you will sleep no better than last night."

"Very well," said Fred.

"Then I will ring for Stephens," said she.

The first thing she did on leaving his room was to go to her own, and there write a note to
young Mr. Carey, giving an account of the symptoms that had caused her so much alarm. As she
wrote them down without exaggeration, and trying to give each its just weight, going back to
recollect the first unfavourable sign, she suddenly remembered that as she left her sister's
room, she had seen Mrs. Langford, whom she had left with Fred, at the door of the store-closet.
Could she have been giving him any of her favourite nourishing things? Mrs. Geoffrey Langford
could hardly believe that either party could have acted so foolishly, yet when she remembered
a few words that had passed about the jelly that morning at breakfast, she could no longer
doubt, and bitterly reproached herself for not having kept up a stricter surveillance. Of her
suspicion she however said nothing, but sealing her note, she went down to the drawing-room,
told Mr. Langford that she did not think Fred quite so well that evening, and asked him if
he did not think it might be better to let Philip Carey know. He agreed instantly, and rang
the bell to order a servant to ride to Allonfield; but Mrs. Langford, who could not bear any
one but Geoffrey to act without consulting her, pitied man and horse for being out so late,
and opined that Beatrice forgot that she was not in London, where the medical man could be
called in so easily.

It was fortunate that it was the elder Beatrice instead of the younger, for provoked as she
already had been before with the old lady, it was not easy even for her to make a cheerful
answer. "Well, it is very kind in you to attend to my London fancies," said she; "I think if
we can do anything to spare him such a night as the last, it should be tried."

"Certainly, certainly," said Mr. Langford. "It is very disappointing when he was going on so
well. He must surely have been doing something imprudent."

It was very tempting to interrogate Mrs. Langford, but her daughter-in-law had long since come
to a resolution never to convey to her anything like reproach, let her do what she might in
her mistaken kindness of heart, or her respectable prejudices; so, without entering on what
many in her place might have made a scene of polite recrimination, she left the room, and on
her way up, heard Frederick's door gently opened. Stephens came quickly and softly to the end
of the passage to meet her. "He is asking for you, ma'am," said he; "I am afraid he is not
so well; I did not like to ring, for fear of alarming my mistress, but--"

Mrs. Geoffrey Langford entered the room, and found that the bustle and exertion of being carried
to his bed had brought on excessive confusion and violent pain. He put his hand to his forehead,
opened his eyes, and looked wildly about. "Oh, Aunt Geoffrey," he exclaimed, "what shall I
do? It is as bad--worse than ever!"

"You have been doing something imprudent, I fear," said Aunt Geoffrey, determined to come to
the truth at once.

"Only that glass of jelly--if I had guessed!"

"Only one?"

"One to-day, one yesterday. It was grandmamma's doing. Don't let her know that I told. I wish
mamma was here!"

Aunt Geoffrey tried to relieve the pain by cold applications, but could not succeed, and Fred
grew more and more alarmed.

"The inflammation is coming back!" he cried, in an agony of apprehension that almost overcame
the sense of pain. "I shall be in danger--I shall lose my senses--I shall die! Mamma! O! where
is mamma?"

"Lie still, my dear Fred," said Mrs. Geoffrey Langford, laying her hand on him so as to restrain
his struggling movements to turn round or to sit up. "Resistance and agitation will hurt you
more than anything else. You must control yourself, and trust to me, and you may be sure I
will do the best in my power for you. The rest is in the hands of God."

"Then you think me very ill?" said Fred, trying to speak more composedly.

"I think you will certainly make yourself very ill, unless you will keep yourself quiet, both
mind and body. There--" she settled him as comfortably as she could: "Now I am going away for
a few minutes. Make a resolution not to stir till I come back. Stephens is here, and I shall
soon come back."

This was very unlike the way in which his mother used to beseech him as a favour to spare her,
and yet his aunt's tone was so affectionate, as well as so authoritative, that he could not
feel it unkind. She left the room, and as soon as she found herself alone in the passage, leant
against the wall and trembled, for she felt herself for a moment quite overwhelmed, and longed
earnestly for her husband to think for her, or even for one short interval in which to reflect.
For this, however, there was no time, and with one earnest mental supplication, summoning up
her energies, she walked on to the person whom she at that moment most dreaded to see, her
sister-in-law. She found her sitting in her arm-chair, Henrietta with her, both looking very
anxious, and she was glad to find her prepared.

"What is it?" was the first eager question.

"He has been attempting rather too much of late," was the answer, "and has knocked himself
up. I came to tell you, because I think I had better stay with him, and perhaps you might miss me."

"O no, no, pray go to him. Nothing satisfies me so well about him as that you should be there,
except that I cannot bear to give you so much trouble. Don't stay here answering questions.
He will be so restless if he misses you--"

"Don't you sit imagining, Mary; let Henrietta read to you."

This proposal made Henrietta look so piteous and wistful that her mother said, "No, no, let
her go to Freddy, poor child. I dare say he wants her."

"By no means," said Aunt Geoffrey, opening the door; "he will be quieter without her."

Henrietta was annoyed, and walked about the room, instead of sitting down to read. She was
too fond of her own will to like being thus checked, and she thought she had quite as good
a right to be with her brother as her aunt could have. Every temper has one side or other on
which it is susceptible; and this was hers. She thought it affection for her brother, whereas
it was impatience of being ordered.

Her mother forced herself to speak cheerfully. "Aunt Geoffrey is a capital nurse," said she;
"there is something so decided about her that it always does one good. It saves all the trouble
and perplexity of thinking for oneself."

"I had rather judge for myself," said Henrietta.

"That is all very well to talk of," said her mother, smiling sadly, "but it is a very different
thing when you are obliged to do it."

"Well, what do you like to hear?" said Henrietta, who found herself too cross for conversation.
"The old man's home?"

"Do not read unless you like it, my dear; I think you must be tired. You would want 'lungs
of brass' to go on all day to both of us. You had better not. I should like to talk."

Henrietta being in a wilful fit, chose nevertheless to read, because it gave her the satisfaction
of feeling that Aunt Geoffrey was inflicting a hardship upon her; although her mother would
have preferred conversation. So she took up a book, and began, without any perception of the
sense of what she was reading, but her thoughts dwelling partly on her brother, and partly
on her aunt's provoking ways. She read on through a whole chapter, then closing the book hastily,
exclaimed, "I must go and see what Aunt Geoffrey is doing with Fred."

"She is not such a very dangerous person," said Mrs. Frederick Langford, almost laughing at
the form of the expression.

"Well, but you surely want to know how he is, mamma?"

"To be sure I do, but I am so afraid of his being disturbed. If he was just going to sleep now."

"Yes, but you know how softly I can open the door."

"Your aunt would let us know if there was anything to hear. Pray take care, my dear."

"I must go, I can't bear it any longer; I will only just listen," said Henrietta; "I will not
be a moment."

"Let me have the book, my dear," said her mother, who knew but too well the length of Henrietta's
moments, and who had just, by means of a great effort, succeeded in making herself take interest
in the book.

Henrietta gave it to her, and darted off. The door of Fred's room was ajar, and she entered.
Aunt Geoffrey, Bennet, and Judith were standing round the bed, her aunt sponging away the blood
that was flowing from Frederick's temples. His eyes were closed, and he now and then gave long
gasping sighs of oppression and faintness. "Leeches!" thought Henrietta, as she started with
consternation and displeasure. "This is pretty strong! Without telling me or mamma! Well, this
is what I call doing something with him indeed."

She advanced to the table, but no one saw her for more than a minute, till at last Aunt Geoffrey
stepped quickly up to it in search of some bottle.

"Let me do something," said Henrietta, catching up the bottle that she thought likely to be
the right one.

Her aunt looked vexed, and answered in a low quick tone, "You had better stay with your mamma."

"But why are you doing this? Is he worse? Is Mr. Philip Carey here? Has he ordered it?"

"He is not come yet. My dear, I cannot talk to you: I should be much obliged if you would go
back to your mamma."

Aunt Geoffrey went back to Fred, but a few minutes after she looked up and still saw Henrietta
standing by the table. She came up to her, "Henrietta, you are of no use here; every additional
person oppresses him; your mamma must be kept tranquil. Why will you stay?"

"I was just going," said Henrietta, taking this hurrying as an additional offence, and walking
off in a dignified way.

It was hard to say what had affronted her most, the proceeding itself, the neglect, or the
commands which Aunt Geoffrey had presumed to lay upon her, and away she went to her mamma,
a great deal too much displeased, and too distrustful to pay the smallest attention to any
precautions which her aunt might have tried to impress upon her.

"Well!" asked her mother anxiously.

"She would not let me stay," answered Henrietta. "She has been putting on leeches."

"Leeches!" exclaimed her mother. "He must be much worse. Poor fellow! Is Mr. Carey here?"

"No, that is the odd thing."

"Has he not been sent for?"

"I am sure I don't know. Aunt Geoffrey seems to like to do things in her own way."

"It must be very bad indeed if she cannot venture to wait for him!" said Mrs. Frederick Langford,
much alarmed.

"And never to tell you!" said Henrietta.

"O, that was her consideration. She knew how foolishly anxious I should be. I have no doubt
that she is doing right. How did he seem to be?"

"Very faint, I thought," said Henrietta, "there seemed to be a great deal of bleeding, but
Aunt Geoffrey would not let me come near."

"She knows exactly what to do," said Mrs. Frederick Langford. "How well it was that she should
be here."

Henrietta began to be so fretted at her mother's complete confidence in her aunt, that without
thinking of the consequences she tried to argue it away. "Aunt Geoffrey is so quick--she does
things without half the consideration other people do. And she likes to settle everything."

But happily the confiding friendship of a lifetime was too strong to be even harassed for a
moment by the petulant suspicions of an angry girl.

"My dear, if you were not vexed and anxious, I should tell you that you were speaking very
improperly of your aunt. I am perfectly satisfied that she is doing what is right by dear Fred,
as well as by me; and if I am satisfied, no one else has any right to object."

There was nothing left for Henrietta in her present state of spirits but to have a hearty cry,
one of the best possible ways she could find of distressing her mother, who all the time was
suffering infinitely more than she could imagine from her fears, her efforts to silence them,
and the restraint which she was exercising upon herself, longing as she did to fly to her son's
room, to see with her own eyes, and only detained by the fear that her sudden appearance there
might agitate him. The tears, whatever might be their effect upon her, did Henrietta good,
and restored her to something more like her proper senses. She grew rather alarmed, too, when
she saw her mamma's pale looks, as she leant back almost exhausted with anxiety and repressed
agitation.

Mrs. Langford came up to bring them some tea, and she, having little idea of the real state
of things, took so encouraging a view as to cheer them both, and her visit did much service
at least to Henrietta. Then they heard sounds announcing Philip Carey's arrival, and presently
after in came Bennet with a message from Mr. Frederick that he was better, and that his mother
was not to be frightened. At last came Aunt Geoffrey, saying, "Well, Mary, he is better. I
have been very sorry to leave you so long, and I believe Henrietta," looking at her with a
smile, "thinks I have used you very ill."

"I believe she did," said her mother, "but I was sure you would do right; you say he is better?
Let me hear."

"Much better; only--. But Mary, you look quite worn out, you should go to bed."

"Let me hear about him first."

Aunt Geoffrey accordingly told the whole history, as, perhaps, every one would not have told
it, for one portion of it in some degree justified Henrietta's opinion that she had been doing
a great deal on her own responsibility. It had been very difficult to stop the bleeding, and
Fred, already very weak, had been so faint and exhausted that she had felt considerable alarm,
and was much rejoiced by the arrival of Philip Carey, who had not been at home when the messenger
reached his house. Now, however, all was well; he had fully approved all that she had done,
and, although she did not repeat this to Mrs. Frederick Langford, had pronounced that her promptitude
and energy had probably saved the patient's life. Fred, greatly relieved, had fallen asleep,
and she had now come, with almost an equal sense of relief, to tell his mother all that had
passed, and ask her pardon.

"Nay, Beatrice, what do you mean by that? Is it not what you and Geoffrey have always done
to treat him as your own son instead of mine? and is it not almost my chief happiness to feel
assured that you always will do so? You know that is the reason I never thank you."

Henrietta hung her head, and felt that she had been very unjust and ungrateful, more especially
when her aunt said, "You thought it very hard to have your mouth stopped, Henrietta, my dear,
and I was sorry for it, but I had not much time to be polite."

"I am sorry I was in the way," said she, an acknowledgment such as she had seldom made.

Fred awoke the next morning much better, though greatly fallen back in his progress towards
recovery, but his mother had during the night the worst fit of spasms from which she had ever
suffered.

But Henrietta thought it all so well accounted for by all the agitations of the evening before,
that there was no reason for further anxiety.

It was a comfort to Aunt Geoffrey, who took it rather more seriously, that she received that
morning a letter from her husband, concluding,

"As to the Queen Bee, I have no doubt that you can judge of her frame better from the tone
of her letters than from anything I have to tell. I think her essentially improved and improving,
and you will think I do not speak without warrant, when I tell you that Lady Susan expressed
herself quite warmly respecting her this morning. She continues to imagine that she has the
charge of Queen Bee, and not Queen Bee of her, and I think it much that she has been allowed
to continue in the belief. Lady Amelia comes to-morrow, and then I hope the poor little woman's
penance may be over, for though she makes no complaints, there is no doubt that it is a heavy
one, as her thorough enjoyment of a book, and an hour's freedom from that little gossiping
flow of plaintive talk sufficiently testify."

CHAPTER XVII.

Frederick had lost much ground, and yet on the whole his relapse was of no slight service to
him. In the earlier part of his illness he had been so stupefied by the accident, that he had
neither been conscious of his danger, nor was able to preserve any distinct remembrance of
what he had suffered. But this return to his former state, with all his senses perfect, made
him realise the rest, and begin to perceive how near to the grave he had been brought. A deep
shuddering sense of awe came over him, as he thought what it would have been to die then, without
a minute of clear recollection, and his last act one of wilful disobedience. And how had he
requited the mercy which had spared him? He had shown as much of that same spirit of self-will
as his feebleness would permit; he had been exacting, discontented, rebellious, and well indeed
had he deserved to be cut off in the midst of the sin in which he had persisted.

He was too weak to talk, but his mind was wide awake; and many an earnest thanksgiving, and
resolution strengthened by prayer, were made in silence during the two or three days that passed,
partly in such thoughts as these, and for many hours more in sleep; while sometimes his aunt,
sometimes his sister, and sometimes even Bennet, sat by his bed-side unchidden for not being
"mamma."

"Above all," said he to himself, "he would for the future devote himself, to make up to her
for all that he had caused her to suffer for his sake. Even if he were never to mount a horse
or fire a gun for the rest of his life, what would such a sacrifice be for such a mother?"
It was very disappointing that, at present, all he could even attempt to do for her was to
send her messages--and affection does not travel well by message,--and at the same time to
show submission to her known wishes. And after all, it would have been difficult not to have
shown submission, for Aunt Geoffrey, as he already felt, was not a person to be argued with,
but to be obeyed; and for very shame he could not have indulged himself in his Philippics after
the proof he had experienced of their futility.

So, partly on principle, and partly from necessity, he ceased to grumble, and from that time
forth it was wonderful how much less unpleasant even external things appeared, and how much
his health benefited by the tranquillity of spirits thus produced. He was willing to be pleased
with all that was done with that intent; and as he grew better, it certainly was a strange
variety with which he had to be amused throughout the day. Very good naturedly he received
all such civilities, especially when Willy brought him a bottle of the first live sticklebacks
of the season, accompanied by a message from Arthur that he hoped soon to send him a basin
of tame tadpoles,--and when John rushed up with a basket of blind young black satin puppies,
their mother following in a state of agitation only equalled by that of Mrs. Langford and Judith.

Willy, a nice intelligent little fellow, grew very fond of him, and spent much time with him,
taking delight in his books and prints, beyond what could have been thought possible in one
of the Sutton Leigh party.

When he was strong enough to guide a pencil or pen, a very enjoyable correspondence commenced
between him and his mother, who was still unable to leave her apartment; and hardly any one
ever passed between the two rooms without being the bearer of some playful greeting, or droll
descriptions of the present scene and occupation, chronicles of the fashionable arrivals of
the white clouds before the window, of a bunch of violets, or a new book; the fashionable departure
of the headache, the fire, or a robin; notices that tom-tits were whetting their saws on the
next tree, or of the domestic proceedings of the rooks who were building their house opposite
to Mrs. Frederick Langford's window, and whom she watched so much that she was said to be in
a fair way of solving the problem of how many sticks go to a crow's nest; criticisms of the
books read by each party, and very often a reference to that celebrated billet, unfortunately
delivered over night to Prince Talleyrand, informing him that his devoted friend had scarcely
closed her eyes all night, and then only to dream of him!

Henrietta grew very happy. She had her brother again, as wholly hers as in their younger days,--depending
upon her, participating in all her pleasures, or rather giving her favourite occupations double
zest, by their being for him, for his amusement. She rode and walked in the beautiful open
spring country with grandpapa, to whom she was a most valuable companion; and on her return
she had two to visit, both of whom looked forward with keen interest and delight to hearing
her histories of down and wood, of field and valley, of farm-house, cottage, or school; had
a laugh for the least amusing circumstance, admiration for the spring flower or leaf, and power
to follow her descriptions of budding woods, soft rising hills, and gorgeous sunsets. How her
mamma enjoyed comparing notes with her about those same woods and dells, and would describe
the adventures of her own youth! And now it might be noticed that she did not avoid speaking
of those in which Henrietta's father had been engaged; nay, she dwelt on them by preference,
and without the suppressed sigh which had formerly followed anything like a reference to him.
Sometimes she would smile to identify the bold open down with the same where she had run races
with him, and even laugh to think of the droll adventures. Sometimes the shady woodland walk
would make her describe their nutting parties, or it would bring her thoughts to some fit of
childish mischief and concealment, and to the confession to which his bolder and more upright
counsel had at length led her. Or she would tell of the long walks they had taken together
when older grown, when each had become prime counsellor and confidante of the other; and the
interests and troubles of home and of school were poured out to willing ears, and sympathy
and advice exchanged. How Fred and Mary had been companions from the very first, how their
love had grown up unconsciously, in the sports in the sunny fields, shady coombs, and green
woods of their home: how it had strengthened and ripened with advancing years, and how bright
and unclouded their sunshine had been to dwell on: this was her delight, while the sadness
which once spoke of crushed hopes, and lost happiness, had gone from her smile. It was as if
she still felt herself walking in the light of his love, and at the same time, as if she wished
to show him to his daughter as he was, and to tell Henrietta of those words and those ways
of his which were most characteristic, and which used to be laid up so fast in her heart, that
she could never have borne to speak of them. The bitterness of his death, as it regarded herself,
seemed to have passed, the brightness of his memory alone remaining. Henrietta loved to listen,
but scarcely so much as her mother loved to tell; and instead of agitating her, these recollections
always seemed to soothe and make her happy.

Henrietta knew that Aunt Geoffrey and grandpapa were both of them anxious about her mother's
health, but for her own part she did not think her worse than she had often been before; and
whilst she continued in nearly the same state, rose every day, sat in her arm-chair, and was
so cheerful, and even lively, there could not be very much amiss, even though there was no
visible progress in amendment. Serious complaint there was, as she knew of old, to cause the
spasms; but it had existed so long, that after the first shock of being told of it two years
ago, she had almost ceased to think about it. She satisfied herself to her own mind that it
could not, should not be progressing, and that this was only a very slow recovery from the
last attack.

Time went on, and a shade began to come over Fred. He was bright and merry when anything occurred
to amuse him, did not like reading less, or take less interest in his occupations; but in the
intervals of quiet he grew grave and almost melancholy, and his inquiries after his mother
grew minute and anxious.

"Henrietta," said he, one day when they were alone together, "I was trying to reckon how long
it is since I have seen mamma."

"O, I think she will come and see you in a few days more," said Henrietta.

"You have told me that so many times," said Fred. "I think I must try to get to her. That passage,
if it was not so very long! If Uncle Geoffrey comes on Saturday, I am sure he can manage to
take me there."

"It will be a festival day indeed when you meet!" said Henrietta.

"Yes," said he thoughtfully. Then returning to the former subject, "But how long is it, Henrietta?
This is the twenty-seventh of March, is it not?"

"Yes; a whole quarter of a year you have been laid up here."

"It was somewhere about the beginning of February that Uncle Geoffrey went."

"The fourth," said Henrietta.

"And it was three days after he went away that mamma had those first spasms. Henrietta, she
has been six weeks ill!"

"Well," said Henrietta, "you know she was five weeks without stirring out of the room, that
last time she was ill at Rocksand, and she is getting better."

"I don't think it is getting better," said Fred. "You always say so, but I don't think you
have anything to show for it."

"You might say the same for yourself," said Henrietta, laughing. "You have been getting better
these three months, poor man, and you need not boast."

"Well, at least I can show something for it," said Fred; "they allow me a lark's diet instead
of a wren's, I can hold up my head like other people now, and I actually made my own legs and
the table's carry me to the window yesterday, which is what I call getting on. But I do not
think it is so with mamma. A fortnight ago she used to be up by ten or eleven o'clock; now
I don't believe she ever is till one."

"It has been close, damp weather," said Henrietta, surprised at the accurate remembrance, which
she could not confute. "She misses the cold bracing wind."

"I don't like it," said Fred, growing silent, and after a short interval beginning again more
earnestly, "Henrietta, neither you nor any one else are keeping anything from me, I trust?"

"O, no, no!" said Henrietta, eagerly.

"You are quite sure?"

"Quite," responded she. "You know all I know, every bit; and I know all Aunt Geoffrey does,
I am sure I do, for she always tells me what Mr. Philip Carey says. I have heard Uncle and
Aunt Geoffrey both say strong things about keeping people in the dark, and I am convinced they
would not do so."

"I don't think they would," said Fred; "but I am not satisfied. Recollect and tell me clearly,
are they convinced that this is only recovering slowly--I do not mean that; I know too well
that this is not a thing to be got rid of; but do they think that she is going to be as well
as usual?"

"I do," said Henrietta, "and you know I am more used to her illness than any of them. Bennet
and I were agreeing to-day that, considering how bad the spasms were, and how much fatigue
she had been going through, we could not expect her to get on faster."

"You do? But that is not Aunt Geoffrey."

"O! Aunt Geoffrey is anxious, and expected her to get on faster, just like Busy Bee expecting
everything to be so quick; but I am sure you could not get any more information from her than
from me, and impressions--I am sure you may trust mine, used as I am to watch mamma."

Fred asked no more; but it was observable that from that day he never lost one of his mother's
little notes, placing them as soon as read in his pocket-book, and treasuring them carefully.
He also begged Henrietta to lend him a miniature of her mother, taken at the time of her marriage.
It represented her in all her youthful loveliness, with the long ringlets and plaits of dark
brown hair hanging on her neck, the arch suppressed smile on her lips, and the laughing light
in her deep blue eye. He looked at it for a little while, and then asked Henrietta if she thought
that she could find, among the things sent from Rocksand which had not yet been unpacked, another
portrait, taken in the earlier months of her widowhood, when she had in some partial degree
recovered from her illness, but her life seemed still to hang on a thread. Mrs. Vivian, at
whose especial desire it had been taken, had been very fond of it, and had always kept it in
her room, and Fred was very anxious to see it again. After a long search, with Bennet's help,
Henrietta found it, and brought it to him. Thin, wan, and in the deep black garments, there
was much more general resemblance to her present appearance in this than in the portrait of
the beautiful smiling bride. "And yet," said Fred, as he compared them, "do not you think,
Henrietta, that there is more of mamma in the first?"

"I see what you mean," said Henrietta. "You know it is by a much better artist."

"Yes," said he, "the other is like enough in feature,--more so certainly to anything we have
ever seen: but what a difference! And yet what is it? Look! Her eyes generally have something
melancholy in their look, and yet I am sure those bright happy ones put me much more in mind
of hers than these, looking so weighed down with sorrow. And the sweet smile, that is quite
her own!"

"If you could but see her now, Fred," said Henrietta, "I think you would indeed say so. She
has now and then a beautiful little pink flush, that lights up her eyes as well as her cheeks;
and when she smiles and talks about those old times with papa, she does really look just like
the miniature, all but her thinness."

"I do not half like to hear of all that talking about my father," murmured Fred to himself
as he leant back. Henrietta at first opened her eyes; then a sudden perception of his meaning
flashed over her, and she began to speak of something else as fast as she could.

Uncle Geoffrey came on Saturday afternoon, and after paying a minute's visit to Fred, had a
conference of more than an hour with his sister-in-law. Fred did not seem pleased with his
sister's information that "it was on business," and only was in a slight degree reassured by
being put in mind that there was always something to settle at Lady-day. Henrietta thought
her uncle looked grave; and as she was especially anxious to prevent either herself or Fred
from being frightened, she would not leave him alone in Fred's room, knowing full well that
no questions would be asked except in private--none at least of the description which she dreaded.

All Fred attempted was the making his long-mediated request that he might visit his mother,
and Uncle Geoffrey undertook to see whether it was possible. Numerous messages passed, and
at length it was arranged that on Sunday, just before afternoon service, when the house was
quiet, his uncle should help him to her room, where his aunt would read to them both.

Frederick made quite a preparation for what was to him a great undertaking. He sat counting
the hours all the morning; and when at length the time arrived, his heart beat so violently,
that it seemed to take away all the little strength he had. His uncle came in, but waited a
few moments; then said, with some hesitation, "Fred, you must be prepared to see her a good
deal altered."

"Yes," said Fred, impatiently.

"And take the greatest care not to agitate her. Can you be trusted? I do not ask it for your
own sake."

"Yes," said Fred, resolutely.

"Then come."

And in process of time Fred was at her door. There he quitted his uncle's arm, and came forward
alone to the large easy chair where she sat by the fire-side. She started joyfully forward,
and soon he was on one knee before her, her arms round his neck, her tears dropping on his
face, and a quiet sense of excessive happiness felt by both. Then rising, he sank back into
another great chair, which his sister had arranged for him close to hers, and too much out
of breath to speak, he passively let Henrietta make him comfortable there; while holding his
mother's hand, he kept his eyes fixed upon her, and she, anxious only for him, patted his cushions,
offered her own, and pushed her footstool towards him.

A few words passed between Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Langford outside the door.

"I still think it a great risk," said she.

"But I should not feel justified in preventing it," was his answer, "only do not leave them
long alone." Then opening the door he called, "Henrietta, there is the last bell." And Henrietta,
much against her will, was obliged to go with him to Church.

"Good-bye, my dear," said her mother. "Think of us prisoners in the right way at Church, and
not in the wrong one."

Strangely came the sound of the Church bell to their ears through the window, half open to
admit the breezy breath of spring; the cawing of the rooks and the song of the blackbird came
with it; the sky was clear and blue, the buds were bursting into life.

"How very lovely it is!" added she.

Fred made a brief reply, but without turning his head to the window. His eyes, his thoughts,
his whole soul, were full of the contemplation of what was to him a thousand times more lovely,--that
frail wasted form, namely, whose hand he held. The delicate pink colour which Henrietta had
described was on her cheek, contrasting with the ivory whiteness of the rest of her face; the
blue eyes shone with a sweet subdued brightness under their long black lashes; the lips smiled,
though languidly yet as sunnily as ever; the dark hair lay in wavy lines along the sides of
her face; and but for the helplessness with which the figure rested in the chair, there was
less outward token of suffering than he had often seen about her,--more appearance almost of
youth and beauty. But it was not an earthly beauty; there was something about it which filled
him with a kind of indescribable undefined awe, together with dread of a sorrow towards which
he shrank from looking. She thought him fatigued with the exertion he had made, and allowed
him to rest, while she contemplated with pleasure even the slight advances which he had already
made in shaking off the traces of illness.

The silence was not broken till Aunt Geoffrey came in, just as the last stroke of the Church-bell
died away, bringing in her hand a fragrant spray of the budding sweet-briar.

"The bees are coming out with you, Freddy," said she. "I have just been round the garden watching
them revelling in the crocuses."

"How delicious!" said Mrs. Frederick Langford, to whom she had offered the sweet-briar. "Give
it to him, poor fellow; he is quite knocked up with his journey."

"O no, not in the least, mamma, thank you," said Fred, sitting up vigorously; "you do not know
how strong I am growing." And then turning to the window, he made an effort, and began observing
on her rook's nest, as she called it, and her lilac buds. Then came a few more cheerful questions
and comments on the late notes, and then Mrs. Frederick Langford proposed that the reading
of the service should begin.

Aunt Geoffrey, kneeling at the table, read the prayers, and Fred took the alternate verses
of the Psalms. It was the last day of the month, and as he now and then raised his eyes to
his mother's face, he saw her lips follow the glorious responses in those psalms of praise,
and a glistening in her lifted eyes such as he could never forget.

"He healeth those that are broken in heart, and giveth medicine to heal their sickness."

"He telleth the number of the stars, and calleth them all by their names."

He read this verse as he had done many a time before, without thinking of the exceeding beauty
of the manner in which it is connected with the former one; but in after years he never read
it again without that whole room rising before his eyes, and above all his mother's face. It
was a sweet soft light, and not a gloom, that rested round that scene in his memory; springtide
sights and sounds; the beams of the declining sun, with its quiet spring radiance; the fresh
mild air; even the bright fire, and the general look of calm cheerfulness which pervaded all
around, all conduced to that impression which never left him.

The service ended, Aunt Geoffrey read the hymn for the day in the "Christian Year," and then
left them for a few minutes; but strange as it may seem, those likewise were spent in silence,
and though there was some conversation when she returned, Fred took little share in it. Silent
as he was, he could hardly believe that he had been there more than ten minutes, when sounds
were heard of the rest of the family returning from Church, and Mrs. Geoffrey Langford went
down to meet them.

In another instant Henrietta came up, very bright and joyous, with many kind messages from
Aunt Roger. Next came Uncle Geoffrey, who, after a few cheerful observations on the beauty
of the day, to which his sister responded with pleasure, said, "Now, Freddy, I must be hard-hearted;
I am coming back almost directly to carry you off."

"So soon!" exclaimed Henrietta. "Am I to be cheated of all the pleasure of seeing you together?"

No one seemed to attend to her; but as soon as the door had closed behind his uncle, Fred moved
as if to speak, paused, hesitated, then bent forward, and, shading his face with his hand,
said in a low voice, "Mamma, say you forgive me."

She held out her arm, and again he sank on his knee, resting his head against her.

"My own dear boy," said she, "I will not say I have nothing to forgive, for that I know is
not what you want; but well do you know how freely forgiven and forgotten is all that you may
ever feel to have been against my wish. God bless you, my own dear Frederick!" she added, pressing
her hand upon his head. "His choicest blessings be with you forever."

Uncle Geoffrey's knock was heard; Frederick hastily rose to his feet, was folded in one more
long embrace, then, without another word, suffered his uncle to lead him out of the room, and
support him back to his own. He stretched himself on the sofa, turned his face inwards, and
gave two or three long gasping sighs, as if completely overpowered, though his uncle could
scarcely determine whether by grief or by physical exhaustion.

Henrietta looked frightened, but her uncle made her a sign to say nothing: and after watching
him anxiously for some minutes, during which he remained perfectly still, her uncle left the
room, and she sat down to watch for him, taking up a book, for she dreaded the reveries in
which she had once been so prone to indulge. Fred remained for a long time tranquil, if not
asleep; and when at length he was disturbed, complained that his head ached, and seemed chiefly
anxious to be left in quiet. It might be that, in addition to his great weariness, he felt
a charm upon him which he could not bear to break. At any rate, he scarcely looked up or spoke
all the rest of the evening, excepting that, when he went to bed, he sent a message that he
hoped Uncle Geoffrey would come to his room the next morning before setting off, as he was
obliged to do at a very early hour.

He came, and found Fred awake, looking white and heavy-eyed, as if he had slept little, and
allowing that his head still ached.

"Uncle Geoffrey," said he, raising himself on his elbow, and looking at him earnestly, "would
it be of no use to have further advice?"

His uncle understood him, and answered, "I hope that Dr. ---- will come this evening or to-morrow
morning. But," added he, slowly and kindly, "you must not build your hopes upon that, Fred.
It is more from the feeling that nothing should be untried, than from the expectation that
he can be of use."

"Then there is no hope?" said Fred, with a strange quietness.

"Man can do nothing," answered his uncle. "You know how the case stands; the complaint cannot
be reached, and there is scarcely a probability of its becoming inactive. It may be an affair
of days or weeks, or she may yet rally, and be spared to us for some time longer."

"If I could but think so!" said Fred. "But I cannot. Her face will not let me hope."

"If ever a ray from heaven shone out upon a departing saint," said Uncle Geoffrey,--but he
could not finish the sentence, and turning away, walked to the window.

"And you must go?" said Fred, when he came back to his side again.

"I must," said Uncle Geoffrey. "Nothing but the most absolute necessity could make me leave
you now. I scarcely could feel myself an honest man if I was not in my place to-morrow. I shall
be here again on Thursday, at latest, and bring Beatrice. Your mother thinks she may be a comfort
to Henrietta."

"Henrietta knows all this?" asked Fred.

"As far as she will bear to believe it," said his uncle. "We cannot grudge her her unconsciousness,
but I am afraid it will be worse for her in the end. You must nerve yourself, Fred, to support
her. Now, good-bye, and may God bless and strengthen you in your trial!"

Fred was left alone again to the agony of the bitterest thoughts he had ever known. All his
designs of devoting himself to her at an end! Her whom he loved with such an intensity of enthusiastic
admiration and reverence,--the gentlest, the most affectionate, the most beautiful being he
knew! Who would ever care for him as she did? To whom would it matter now whether he was in
danger or in safety? whether he distinguished himself or not? And how thoughtlessly had he
trifled with her comfort, for the mere pleasure of a moment, and even fancied himself justified
in doing so! Even her present illness, had it not probably been brought on by her anxiety and
attendance on him? and it was his own wilful disobedience to which all might be traced. It
was no wonder that, passing from one such miserable thought to another, his bodily weakness
was considerably increased, and he remained very languid and unwell; so much so that had Philip
Carey ever presumed to question anything Mr. Geoffrey Langford thought fit to do, he would
have pronounced yesterday's visit a most imprudent measure. In the afternoon, as Fred was lying
on his sofa, he heard a foot on the stairs, and going along the passage.

"Who is that?" said he; "the new doctor already? It is a strange step."

"O! Fred, don't be the fairy Fine Ear, as you used to be when you were at the worst," said
Henrietta.

"But do you know who it is?" said Fred.

"It is Mr. Franklin," said Henrietta. "You know mamma has only been once at Church since your
accident, and then there was no Holy Communion. So you must not fancy she is worse, Fred."

"I wish we were confirmed," said Fred, sighing, and presently adding, "My Prayer-Book, if you
please, Henrietta."

"You will only make your head worse, with trying to read the small print," said she; "I will
read anything you want to you."

He chose nevertheless to have it himself, and when he next spoke, it was to say, "I wish, when
Mr. Franklin leaves her, you would ask him to come to me."

Henrietta did not like the proposal at all, and said all she could against it; but Fred persisted,
and made her at last undertake to ask Aunt Geoffrey's consent. Even then she would have done
her best to miss the opportunity; but Fred heard the first sounds, and she was obliged to fetch
Mr. Franklin. The conference was not long, and she found no reason to regret that it had taken
place; for Fred did not seem so much oppressed and weighted down when she again returned to him.

The physician who had been sent for arrived. He had seen Mrs. Frederick Langford some years
before, and well understood her case, and his opinion was now exactly what Fred had been prepared
by his uncle to expect. It was impossible to conjecture how long she might yet survive: another
attack might come at any moment, and be the last. It might be deferred for weeks or months,
or even now it was possible that she might rally, and return to her usual state of health.

It was on this possibility, or as she chose to hear the word, probability, that Henrietta fixed
her whole mind. The rest was to her as if unsaid; she would not hear nor believe it, and shunned
anything that brought the least impression of the kind. The only occasion when she would avow
her fears even to herself, was when she knelt in prayer; and then how wild and unsubmissive
were her petitions! How embittered and wretched she would feel at her own powerlessness! Then
the next minute she would drive off her fears as by force; call up a vision of a brightly smiling
future; think, speak, and act as if hiding her eyes would prevent the approach of the enemy
she dreaded.

Her grandmamma was as determined as herself to hope; and her grandpapa, though fully alive
to the real state of the case, could not bear to sadden her before the time, and let her talk
on and build schemes for the future, till he himself almost caught a glance of her hopes, and
his deep sigh was the only warning she received from him. Fred, too weak for much argument,
and not unwilling to rejoice now and then in an illusion, was easily silenced, and Aunt Geoffrey
had no time for anyone but the patient. Her whole thought, almost her whole being, was devoted
to "Mary," the friend, the sister of her childhood, whom she now attended upon with something
of the reverent devotedness with which an angel might be watched and served, were it to make
a brief sojourn upon earth; feeling it a privilege each day that she was still permitted to
attend her, and watching for each passing word and expression as a treasure to be dwelt on
in many a subsequent year.

It could not be thus with Henrietta, bent on seeing no illness, on marking no traces of danger;
shutting her eyes to all the tokens that her mother was not to be bound down to earth for ever.
She found her always cheerful, ready to take interest in all that pleased her, and still with
the playfulness which never failed to light up all that approached her. A flower,--what pleasure
it gave her! and how sweet her smile would be!

It was on the evening of the day after the physician's visit, that Henrietta came in talking,
with the purpose of, as she fancied, cheering her mother's spirits, of some double lilac primroses
which Mrs. Langford had promised her for the garden at the Pleasance. Her mamma smelt the flowers,
admired them, and smiled as she said, "Your papa planted a root of those in my little garden
the first summer I was here."

"Then I am sure you will like to have them at the Pleasance, mamma."

"My dear child,"--she paused, while Henrietta started, and gazed upon her, frightened at the
manner--"you must not build upon our favourite old plan; you must prepare--"

"O but, mamma, you are better! You are so much better than two days ago; and these clear days
do you so much good; and it is all so bright."

"Thanks to Him Who has made it bright!" said her mother, taking her hand. "But I fear, my own
dearest, that it will seem far otherwise to you. I want you to make up your mind--"

Henrietta broke vehemently upon the feeble accents. "Mamma! mamma! you must not speak so! It
is the worst thing people can do to think despondingly of themselves. Aunt Geoffrey, do tell
her so!"

"Despondingly! my child; you little know what the thought is to me!"

The words were almost whispered, and Henrietta scarcely marked them.

"No, no, you must not! It is too cruel to me,--I can't bear it!" she cried; the tears in her
eyes, and a violence of agitation about her, which her mother, feeble as she was, could not
attempt to contend with. She rested her head on her cushions, and silently and mournfully followed
with her eyes the hasty trembling movements of her daughter, who continued to arrange the things
on the table, and make desperate attempts to regain her composure; but completely failing,
caught up her bonnet, and hurried out of the room.

"Poor dear child," said Mrs. Frederick Langford, "I wish she was more prepared. Beatrice, the
comforting her is the dearest and saddest task I leave you. Fred, poor fellow, is prepared,
and will bear up like a man; but it will come fearfully upon her. And Henrietta and I have
been more like sisters than mother and daughter. If she would only bear to hear me--but no,
if I were to be overcome while speaking to her, it might give her pain in the recollection.
Beatrice, you must tell her all I would say."

"If I could!"

"You must tell her, Beatrice, that I was as undisciplined as she is now. Tell her how I have
come to rejoice in the great affliction of my life: how little I knew how to bear it when Frederick
was taken from me and his children, in the prime of his health and strength. You remember how
crushed to the ground I was, and how it was said that my life was saved chiefly by the calmness
that came with the full belief that I was dying. And O! how my spirit rebelled when I found
myself recovering! Do you remember the first day I went to Church to return thanks?"

"It was after we were gone home."

"Ah! yes. I had put it off longer than I ought, because I felt so utterly unable to join in
the service. The sickness of heart that came with those verses of thanksgiving! All I could
do was to pray to be forgiven for not being able to follow them. Now I can own with all my
heart the mercy that would not grant my blind wish for death. My treasure was indeed in heaven,
but O! it was not the treasure that was meant. I was forgetting my mother, and so selfish and
untamed was I, that I was almost forgetting my poor babies! Yes, tell her this, Beatrice, and
tell her that, if duties and happiness sprang up all around me, forlorn and desolate as I thought
myself, so much the more will they for her; and 'at evening time there shall be light.' Tell
her that I look to her for guiding and influencing Fred. She must never let a week pass without
writing to him, and she must have the honoured office of waiting on the old age of her grandfather
and grandmother. I think she will be a comfort to them, do not you? They are fond of her, and
she seems to suit them."

"Yes, I have little doubt that she will be everything to them. I have especially noted her
ways with Mrs. Langford, they are so exactly what I have tried to teach Beatrice."

"Dear little Busy Bee! I am glad she is coming; but in case I should not see her, give her
her godmother's love, and tell her that she and Henrietta must be what their mammas have been
to each other; and that I trust that after thirty-five years' friendship, they will still have
as much confidence in one another as I have in you, my own dear Beatrice. I have written her
name in one of these books," she added after a short interval, touching some which were always
close to her. "And, Beatrice, one thing more I had to say," she proceeded, taking up a Bible,
and finding out a place in it. "Geoffrey has always been a happy prosperous man, as he well
deserves; but if ever trouble should come to him in his turn, then show him this." She pointed
out the verse, "Be as a father to the fatherless, and instead of a husband to their mother;
so shalt thou be as the son of the Most High, and He shall love thee more than thy mother doth."
"Show him that, and tell him it is his sister Mary's last blessing."

CHAPTER XVIII.

On Thursday morning, Henrietta began to awake from her sound night's rest. Was it a dream that
she saw a head between her and the window? She thought it was, and turned to sleep again; but
at her movement the head turned, the figure advanced, and Mrs. Geoffrey Langford stood over her.

Henrietta opened her eyes, and gazed upon her without saying a word for some moments; then,
as her senses awakened, she half sprung up. "How is mamma? Does she want me? Why?" Her aunt
made an effort to speak, but it seemed beyond her power.

"O, aunt, aunt!" cried she, "what is the matter? What has happened? Speak to me!"

"Henrietta," said her aunt, in a low, calm, but hoarse tone, "she bade you bear up for your
brother's sake."

"But--but--" said Henrietta, breathlessly; "and she--"

"My dear child, she is at rest."

Henrietta laid her head back, as if completely stunned, and unable to realise what she had heard.

"Tell me," she said, after a few moments.

Her aunt knelt by her and steadily, without a tear, began to speak. "It was at half-past twelve;
she had been asleep some little time very quietly. I was just going to lie down on the sofa,
when I thought her face looked different, and stood watching. She woke, said she felt oppressed,
and asked me to raise her pillows. While she was leaning against my arm, there was a spasm,
a shiver, and she was gone! Yes, we must only think of her as in perfect peace!"

Henrietta lay motionless for some moments, then at last broke out with a sort of anger, "O,
why did you not call me?"

"There was not one instant, my dear, and I could not ring, for fear of disturbing Fred. I could
not call any one till it was too late."

"O, why was I not there? I would--I would--she must have heard me. I would not have let her
go. O, mamma!" cried Henrietta, almost unconscious of what she said, and bursting into a transport
of ungovernable grief; sobbing violently and uttering wild incoherent exclamations. Her aunt
tried in vain to soothe her by kind words, but all she said seemed only to add impulse to the
torrent; and at last she found herself obliged to wait till the violence of the passion had
in some degree exhausted itself; and young, strong, and undisciplined as poor Henrietta was,
this was not quickly. At last, however, the sobs grew less loud, and the exclamations less
vehement. Aunt Geoffrey thought she could be heard, leant down over her, kissed her, and said,
"Now we must pray that we may fulfil her last desire; bear it patiently, and try to help your
brother."

"Fred, O poor Fred!" and she seemed on the point of another burst of lamentation, but her aunt
went on speaking--"I must go to him; he has yet to hear it, and you had better come to him
as soon as you are dressed."

"O aunt; I could not bear to see him. It will kill him, I know it will! O no, no, I cannot,
cannot see Fred! O, mamma, mamma!" A fresh fit of weeping succeeded, and Mrs. Langford herself
feeling most deeply, was in great doubt and perplexity; she did not like to leave Henrietta
in this condition, and yet there was an absolute necessity that she should go to poor Fred,
before any chance accident or mischance should reveal the truth.

"I must leave you, my dear," said she, at last. "Think how your dear mother bowed her head
to His will. Pray to your Father in Heaven, Who alone can comfort you. I must go to your brother,
and when I return, I hope you will be more composed."

The pain of witnessing the passionate sorrow of Henrietta was no good preparation for carrying
the same tidings to one, whose bodily weakness made it to be feared that he might suffer even
more; but Mrs. Geoffrey Langford feared to lose her composure by stopping to reflect, and hastened
down from Henrietta's room with a hurried step.

She knocked at Fred's door, and was answered by his voice. As she entered he looked at her
with anxious eyes, and before she could speak, said, "I know what you are come to tell me."

"Yes, Fred," said she; "but how?"

"I was sure of it," said Fred. "I knew I should never see her again; and there were sounds
this morning. Did not I hear poor Henrietta crying?"

"She has been crying very much," said his aunt.

"Ah! she would never believe it," said Fred. "But after last Sunday--O, no one could look at
that face, and think she was to stay here any longer!"

"We could not wish it for her sake," said his aunt, for the first time feeling almost overcome.

"Let me hear how it was," said Frederick, after a pause.

His aunt repeated what she had before told Henrietta, and then he asked quickly, "What did
you do? I did not hear you ring."

"No, that was what I was afraid of. I was going to call some one, when I met grandpapa, who
was just going up. He came with me, and--and was very kind--then he sent me to lie down; but
I could not sleep, and went to wait for Henrietta's waking."

Fred gave a long, deep, heavy sigh, and said, "Poor Henrietta! Is she very much overcome?"

"So much, that I hardly know how to leave her."

"Don't stay with me, then, Aunt Geoffrey. It is very kind in you, but I don't think anything
is much good to me." He hid his face as he spoke thus, in a tone of the deepest dejection.

"Nothing but prayer, my dear Fred," said she, gently. "Then I will go to your sister again."

"Thank you." And she had reached the door when he asked, "When does Uncle Geoffrey come?"

"By the four o'clock train," she answered, and moved on.

Frederick hid his head under the clothes, and gave way to a burst of agony, which, silent as
it was, was even more intense than his sister's. O! the blank that life seemed without her
look, her voice, her tone! the frightful certainty that he should never see her more! Then
it would for a moment seem utterly incredible that she should thus have passed away; but then
returned the conviction, and he felt as if he could not even exist under it. But this excessive
oppression and consciousness of misery seemed chiefly to come upon him when alone. In the presence
of another person he could talk in the same quiet matter-of-fact way in which he had already
done to his aunt; and the blow itself, sudden as it was, did not affect his health as the first
anticipation of it had done. With Henrietta things were quite otherwise. When alone she was
quiet, in a sort of stupor, in which she scarcely even thought; but the entrance of any person
into her room threw her into a fresh paroxysm of grief, ever increasing in vehemence; then
she was quieted a little, and was left to herself, but she could not, or would not, turn where
alone comfort could be found, and repelled, almost as if it was an insult to her affection,
any entreaty that she would even try to be comforted. Above all, in the perverse-ness of her
undisciplined affliction, she persisted in refusing to see her brother. "She should do him
harm," she said. "No, it was utterly impossible for her to control herself so as not to do
him harm." And thereupon her sobs and tears redoubled. She would not touch a morsel of food;
she would not consent to leave her bed when asked to do so, though ten minutes after, in the
restlessness of her misery, she was found walking up and down her room in her dressing-gown.

Never had Mrs. Geoffrey Langford known a more trying day. Old Mr. Langford, who had loved "Mary"
like his own child, did indeed bear up under the affliction with all his own noble spirit of
Christian submission; but, excepting by his sympathy, he could be of little assistance to her
in the many painful offices which fell to her share. Mrs. Langford walked about the house,
active as ever; now sitting down in her chair, and bursting into a flood of tears for "poor
Mary," or "dear Frederick," all the sorrow for whose loss seemed renewed; then rising vigorously,
saying, "Well, it is His will; it is all for the best!" and hastening away to see how Henrietta
and Fred were, to make some arrangement about mourning, or to get Geoffrey's room ready for
him. And in all these occupations she wanted Beatrice to consult, or to sympathise, or to promise
that Geoffrey would like and approve what she did. In the course of the morning Mr. and Mrs.
Roger Langford came from Sutton Leigh, and the latter, by taking the charge of, talking to,
and assisting Mrs. Langford, greatly relieved her sister-in-law. Still there were the two young
mourners. Henrietta was completely unmanageable, only resting now and then to break forth with
more violence; and her sorrow far too selfish and unsubmissive to be soothed either by the
thought of Him Who sent it, or of the peace and rest to which that beloved one was gone; and
as once the anxiety for her brother had swallowed up all care for her mother, so now grief
for her mother absorbed every consideration for Frederick; so that it was useless to attempt
to persuade her to make any exertion for his sake. Nothing seemed in any degree to tranquillize
her except Aunt Geoffrey's reading to her; and then it was only that she was lulled by the
sound of the voice, not that the sense reached her mind. But then, how go on reading to her
all day, when poor Fred was left in his lonely room, to bear his own share of sorrow in solitude?
For though Mr. and Mrs. Langford, and Uncle and Aunt Roger, made him many brief kind visits,
they all of them had either too much on their hands, or were unfitted by disposition to be
the companions he wanted. It was only Aunt Geoffrey who could come and sit by him, and tell
him all those precious sayings of his mother in her last days, which in her subdued low voice
renewed that idea of perfect peace and repose which came with the image of his mother, and
seemed to still the otherwise overpowering thought that she was gone. But in the midst the
door would open, and grandmamma would come in, looking much distressed, with some such request
as this--"Beatrice, if Fred can spare you, would you just go up to poor Henrietta? I thought
she was better, and that it was as well to do it at once; so I went to ask her for one of her
dresses, to send for a pattern for her mourning, and that has set her off crying to such a
degree, that Elizabeth and I can do nothing with her. I wish Geoffrey was come!"

Nothing was expressed so often through the day as this wish, and no one wished more earnestly
than his wife, though, perhaps, she was the only person who did not say so a dozen times. There
was something cheering in hearing that his brother had actually set off to meet him at Allonfield;
and at length Fred's sharpened ears caught the sound of the carriage wheels, and he was come.
It seemed as if he was considered by all as their own exclusive property. His mother had one
of her quick, sudden bursts of lamentation as soon as she saw him; his brother, as usual, wanted
to talk to him; Fred was above all eager for him; and it was only his father who seemed even
to recollect that his wife might want him more than all. And so she did. Her feelings were
very strong and impetuous by nature, and the loss was one of the greatest she could have sustained.
Nothing save her husband and her child was so near to her heart as her sister; and worn out
as she was by long attendance, sleepless nights, and this trying day, when all seemed to rest
upon her, she now completely gave way, and was no sooner alone with her husband and daughter,
than her long repressed feelings relieved themselves in a flood of tears, which, though silent,
were completely beyond her own control. Now that he was come, she could, and indeed must, give
way; and the more she attempted to tell him of the peacefulness of her own dear Mary, the more
her tears would stream forth. He saw how it was, and would not let her even reproach herself
for her weakness, or attempt any longer to exert herself; but made her lie down on her bed,
and told her that he and Queen Bee could manage very well.

Queen Bee stood there pale, still, and bewildered-looking. She had scarcely spoken since she
heard of her aunt's death; and new as affliction was to her sunny life, scarce knew where she
was, or whether this was her own dear Knight Sutton; and even her mother's grief seemed to
her almost more like a dream.

"Ah, yes," said Mrs. Geoffrey Langford, as soon as her daughter had been named, "I ought to
have sent you to Henrietta before."

"Very well," said Beatrice, though her heart sank within her as she thought of her last attempt
at consoling Henrietta.

"Go straight up to her," continued her mother; "don't wait to let her think whether she will
see you or not. I only wish poor Fred could do the same."

"If I could but do her any good," sighed Beatrice, as she opened the door and hastened upstairs.
She knocked, and entered without waiting for an answer: Henrietta lifted up her head, came
forward with a little cry, threw herself into her arms, and wept bitterly. Mournful as all
around was, there was a bright ray of comfort in Queen Bee's heart when she was thus hailed
as a friend and comforter. She only wished and longed to know what might best serve to console
her poor Henrietta; but all that occurred to her was to embrace and fondle her very affectionately,
and call her by the most caressing names. This was all that Henrietta was as yet fit to bear;
and after a time, growing quieter, she poured out to her cousin all her grief, without fear
of blame for its violence. Beatrice was sometimes indeed startled by the want of all idea of
resignation, but she could not believe that any one could feel otherwise,--least of all Henrietta,
who had lost her only parent, and that parent Aunt Mary. Neither did she feel herself good
enough to talk seriously to Henrietta; she considered herself as only sent to sit with her,
so she did not make any attempt to preach the resignation which was so much wanted; and Henrietta,
who had all day been hearing of it, and rebelling against it, was almost grateful to her. So
Henrietta talked and talked, the same repeated lamentation, the same dreary views of the future
coming over and over again; and Beatrice's only answer was to agree with all her heart to all
that was said of her own dear Aunt Mary, and to assure Henrietta of the fervent love that was
still left for her in so many hearts on earth.

The hours passed on; Beatrice was called away and Henrietta was inclined to be fretful at her
leaving her; but she presently returned, and the same discourse was renewed, until at last
Beatrice began to read to her, and thus did much to soothe her spirits, persuaded her to make
a tolerable meal at tea-time, bathed her eyelids that were blistered with tears, put her to
bed, and finally read her to sleep. Then, as she crept quietly down to inquire after her mamma,
and wish the others in the drawing-room good night, she reflected whether she had done what
she ought for her cousin.

"I have not put a single right or really consoling thought into her head," said she to herself;
"for as to the reading, she did not attend to that. But after all I could not have done it.
I must be better myself before I try to improve other people; and it is not what I deserve
to be allowed to be any comfort at all."

Thanks partly to Beatrice's possessing no rightful authority over Henrietta, partly to the
old habit of relying on her, she contrived to make her get up and dress herself at the usual
time next morning. But nothing would prevail on her to go down stairs. She said she could not
endure to pass "that door," where ever before the fondest welcome awaited her; and as to seeing
her brother, that having been deferred yesterday, seemed to-day doubly dreadful. The worst
of this piece of perverseness--for it really deserved no better name--was that it began to
vex Fred. "But that I know how to depend upon you, Uncle Geoffrey," said he, "I should really
think she must be ill. I never knew anything so strange."

Uncle Geoffrey resolved to put an end to it, if possible; and soon after leaving Fred's room
he knocked at his niece's door. She was sitting by the fire with a book in her hand, but not
reading.

"Good morning, my dear," said he, taking her languid hand. "I bring you a message from Fred,
that he hopes you are soon coming down to see him."

She turned away her head. "Poor dear Fred!" said she; "but it is quite impossible. I cannot
bear it as he does; I should only overset him and do him harm."

"And why cannot you bear it as he does?" said her uncle gravely. "You do not think his affection
for her was less? and you have all the advantages of health and strength."

"Oh, no one can feel as I do!" cried Henrietta, with one of her passionate outbreaks. "O how
I loved her!"

"Fred did not love her less," proceeded her uncle. "And why will you leave him in sorrow and
in weakness to doubt the sister's love that should be his chief stay?"

"He does not doubt it," sobbed Henrietta. "He knows me better."

"Nay, Henrietta, what reason has he to trust to that affection which is not strong enough to
overcome the dread of a few moments' painful emotion?"

"Oh, but it is not that only! I shall feel it all so much more out of this room, where she
has never been; but to see the rest of the house--to go past her door! O, uncle, I have not
the strength for it."

"No, your affection for him is not strong enough."

Henrietta's pale cheeks flushed, and her tears were angry. "You do not know me, Uncle Geoffrey,"
said she proudly, and then she almost choked with weeping at unkindness where she most expected
kindness.

"I know this much of you, Henrietta. You have been nursing up your grief and encouraging yourself
in murmuring and repining, in a manner which you will one day see to have been sinful: you
are obstinate in making yourself useless."

Henrietta, little used to blame, was roused to defend herself with the first weapon she could.
"Aunt Geoffrey is just as much knocked up as I am," said she.

If ever Uncle Geoffrey was made positively angry, he was so now, though if he had not thought
it good that Henrietta should be roused, he would have repressed even such demonstrations as
he made. "Henrietta, this is too bad! Has she been weakly yielding?--has she been shutting
herself up in her room, and keeping aloof from those who most needed her, lest she should pain
her own feelings? Have not you rather been perplexing and distressing, and harassing her with
your wilful selfishness, refusing to do the least thing to assist her in the care of your own
brother, after she has been wearing herself out in watching over your mother? And now, when
her strength and spirits are exhausted by the exertions she has made for you and yours, and
I have been obliged to insist on her resting, you fancy her example an excuse for you! Is this
the way your mother would have acted? I see arguing with you does you no good: I have no more
to say."

He got up, opened the door, and went out: Henrietta, dismayed at the accusation but too well
founded on her words, had but one thought, that she should not deem her regardless of his kindness.
"Uncle Geoffrey!" she cried, "O, uncle--" but he was gone; and forgetting everything else,
she flew after him down the stairs, and before she recollected anything else, she found herself
standing in the hall, saying, "O uncle, do not think I meant that!"

At that moment her grandpapa came out of the drawing-room. "Henrietta!" said he, "I am glad
to see you downstairs."

Henrietta hastily returned his kiss, and looked somewhat confused; then laying her hand entreatingly
on her uncle's arm, said, "Only say you are not angry with me."

"No, no, Henrietta, not if you will act like a rational person," said he with something of
a smile, which she could not help returning in her surprise at finding herself downstairs after
all.

"And you do not imagine me ungrateful?"

"Not when you are in your right senses."

"Ungrateful!" exclaimed Mr. Langford. "What is he accusing you of, Henrietta? What is the meaning
of all this?"

"Nothing," said Uncle Geoffrey, "but that Henrietta and I have both been somewhat angry with
each other; but we have made it up now, have we not, Henrietta?"

It was wonderful how much good the very air of the hall was doing Henrietta, and how fast it
was restoring her energy and power of turning her mind to other things. She answered a few
remarks of grandpapa's with very tolerable cheerfulness, and even when the hall door opened
and admitted Uncle and Aunt Roger, she did not run away, but stayed to receive their greetings
before turning to ascend the stairs.

"You are not going to shut yourself up in your own room again?" said grandpapa.

"No, I was only going to Fred," said she, growing as desirous of seeing him as she had before
been averse to it.

"Suppose," said Uncle Geoffrey, "that you were to take a turn or two round the garden first.
There is Queen Bee, she will go out with you, and you will bring Fred in a fresher face."

"I will fetch your bonnet," said Queen Bee, who was standing at the top of the stairs, wisely
refraining from expressing her astonishment at seeing her cousin in the hall.

And before Henrietta had time to object, the bonnet was on her head, a shawl thrown round her,
Beatrice had drawn her arm within hers, and had opened the sashed door into the garden.

It was a regular April day, with all the brilliancy and clearness of the sunshine that comes
between showers, the white clouds hung in huge soft masses on the blue sky, the leaves of the
evergreens were glistening with drops of rain, the birds sang sweetly in the shrubs around.
Henrietta's burning eyes felt refreshed, and though she sighed heavily, she could not help
admiring, but Beatrice was surprised that the first thing she began to say was an earnest inquiry
after Aunt Geoffrey, and a warm expression of gratitude towards her.

Then the conversation died away again, and they completed their two turns in silence; but Henrietta's
heart began to fail her when she thought of going in without having her to greet. She lingered
and could hardly resolve to go, but at length she entered, walked up the stairs, gave her shawl
and bonnet to Beatrice, and tapped at Fred's door.

"Is that you?" was his eager answer, and as she entered he came forward to meet her. "Poor
Henrietta!" was all he said, as she put her arm round his neck and kissed him, and then leaning
on her he returned to his sofa, made her sit by him, and showed all sorts of kind solicitude
for her comfort. She had cried so much that she felt as if she could cry no longer, but she
reproached herself excessively for having left him to himself so long, when all he wanted was
to comfort her; and she tried to make some apology.

"I am sorry I did not come sooner, Fred."

"O, it is of no use to talk about it," said Fred, playing with her long curls as she sat on
a footstool close to him, just as she used to do in times long gone by. "You are come now,
and that is all I want. Have you been out? I thought I heard the garden door just before you
came in."

"Yes, I took two turns with Queen Bee. How bright and sunny it is. And how are you this morning,
Freddy?"

"O, pretty well I think," said he, sighing, as if he cared little about the matter. "I wanted
to show you this, Henrietta." And he took up a book where he had marked a passage for her.
She saw several paper marks in some other books, and perceived with shame that he had been
reading yesterday, and choosing out what might comfort her, his selfish sister, as she could
not help feeling herself.

And here was the first great point gained, though there was still much for Henrietta to learn.
It was the first time she had ever been conscious of her own selfishness, or perhaps more justly,
of her proneness to make all give way to her own feeling of the moment.

CHAPTER XIX.

There was some question as to who should attend the funeral. Henrietta shuddered and trembled
all over as if it were a cruelty to mention it before her; but Frederick was very desirous
that she should be there, partly from a sort of feeling that she would represent himself, and
partly from a strong conviction that it would be good for her. She was willing to do anything
or everything for him, to make up for her day's neglect: and she consented, though with many
tears, and was glad that at least Fred seemed satisfied, and her uncle looked pleased with her.

Aunt Geoffrey undertook to stay with Fred, and Henrietta, who clung much to Beatrice, felt
relieved by the thought of her support in such an hour of trial. She remembered the day when,
with a kind of agreeable emotion, she had figured to herself her father's funeral, little thinking
of the reality that so soon awaited her, so much worse, as she thought, than what any of them
could even then have felt; and it seemed to her perfectly impossible that she should ever have
power to go through with it.

In was much, however, that she should have agreed to what in the prospect gave her so much
pain; and perhaps, for that very reason, she found the reality less overwhelming than she had
dreaded. Seeing nothing, observing nothing, hardly conscious of anything, she walked along,
wrapped in one absorbing sense of wretchedness; and the first words that "broke the stillness
of that hour," healing as they were, seemed but to add certainty to that one thought that "she
was gone." But while the Psalms and the Lessons were read, the first heavy oppression of grief
seemed in some degree to grow lighter. She could listen, and the words reached her mind; a
degree of thankfulness arose to Him Who had wiped away the tears from her mother's eyes, and
by Whom the sting of death had been taken away.

Something of this was what Henrietta began to feel; and though the tears flowed fast, they
were not the bitter drops of personal sorrow. She was enabled to bear, without the agony she
had expected, the standing round the grave in the chancel; nor did her heart swell rebelliously
against the expression that it was "in great mercy that the soul of this our dear sister" was
taken, even though she shrank and shivered at the sound of the earth cast in, which would seem
to close up from her for ever the most loved and loving creature that she would ever know.
No, not for ever,--might she too but keep her part in Him Who is the Resurrection and the Life--might
she be found acceptable in His sight, and receive the blessing to be pronounced to all that
love and fear Him.

It was over: they all stood round for a few minutes. At last Mr. Langford moved; Henrietta
was also obliged to turn away, but before doing so, she raised her eyes to her father's name,
to take leave of him as it were, as she always did before going out of Church. She met her
Uncle Geoffrey's eye as she did so, and took his arm; and as soon as she was out of the church,
she said almost in a whisper, "Uncle, I don't wish for him now."

He pressed her arm, and looked most kindly at her, but he did not speak, for he could hardly
command his voice; and he saw, too, that she might safely be trusted to the influences of that
only true consolation which was coming upon her.

They came home--to the home that looked as if it would fain be once more cheerful, with the
front window blinds drawn up again, and the solemn stillness no longer observed. Henrietta
hastened up to her own room, for she could not bear to show herself to her brother in her long
crape veil. She threw her bonnet off, knelt down for a few minutes, but rose on hearing the
approach of Beatrice, who still shared the same room.

"Yes, Queenie," said Henrietta, giving a long sigh, "it is a very different world to me now;
but I do mean to try. And first, dear Bee, you must let me thank you for having been very kind
to me this long time past, though I am afraid I showed little thankfulness." She kissed her
affectionately, and the tears almost choked Beatrice.

"Me! me, of all people," she said. "O, Henrietta!"

"We must talk of it all another time," said Henrietta, "but now it will not do to stay away
from Fred any longer. Don't think this like the days when I used to run away from you in the
winter, Bee--that time when I would not stop and talk about the verses on the holly."

While she spoke, there was something of the "new bracing" visible in every movement, as she
set her dress to rights, and arranged her curls, which of late she had been used to allow to
hang in a deplorable way, that showed how little vigour or inclination to bear up there was
about her whole frame.

"O no, do not stay with me," said Queen Bee, "I am going"--to mamma, she would have said, but
she hardly knew how to use the word when speaking to Henrietta.

"Yes," said Henrietta, understanding her. "And tell her, Bee--for I am sure I shall never be
able to say it to her,--all about our thanks, and how sorry I am that I cared so little about
her or her comfort." "If I had only believed, instead of blinding myself so wilfully!" she
almost whispered to herself with a deep sigh; but being now ready, she ran downstairs and entered
her brother's room. His countenance bore traces of weeping, but he was still calm; and as she
came in he looked anxiously at her. She spoke quietly as she sat down by him, put her hand
into his, and said, "Thank you, dear Fred, for making me go."

"I was quite sure you would be glad when it was over," said Fred. "I have been reading the
service with Aunt Geoffrey, but that is a very different thing."

"It will all come to you when you go to Church again," said Henrietta.

"How little I thought that New Year's Day--!" said Fred.

"Ah! and how little we either of us thought last summer's holidays!" said Henrietta. "If it
was not for that, I could bear it all better; but it was my determination to come here that
seems to have caused everything, and that is the thought I cannot bear."

"I was talking all that over with Uncle Geoffrey last night," said Fred, "and he especially
warned us against reproaching ourselves with consequences. He said it was he who had helped
my father to choose the horse that caused his death, and asked me if I thought he ought to
blame himself for that. I said no; and he went on to tell me that he did not think we ought
to take unhappiness to ourselves for what has happened now; that we ought to think of the actions
themselves, instead of the results. Now my skating that day was just as bad as my driving,
except, to be sure, that I put nobody in danger but myself; it was just as much disobedience,
and I ought to be just as sorry for it, though nothing came of it, except that I grew more wilful."

"Yes," said Henrietta, "but I shall always feel as if everything had been caused by me. I am
sure I shall never dare wish anything again."

"It was just as much my wish as yours," said Fred.

"Ah! but you did not go on always trying to make her do what you pleased, and keeping her to
it, and almost thinking it a thing of course, to make her give up her wishes to yours. That
was what I was always doing, and now I can never make up for it!"

"O yes," said Fred, "we can never feel otherwise than that. To know how she forgave us both,
and how her wishes always turned to be the same as ours, if ours were not actually wrong; that
is little comfort to remember, now, but perhaps it will be in time. But don't you see, Henrietta,
my dear, what Uncle Geoffrey means?--that if you did domineer over her, it was very wrong,
and you may be sorry for that; but that you must not accuse yourself of doing all the mischief
by bringing her here. He says he does not know whether it was not, after all, what was most
for her comfort, if--"

"O, Freddy, to have you almost killed!"

"If the thoughts I have had lately will but stay with me when I am well again, I do not think
my accident will be a matter of regret, Henrietta. Just consider, when I was so disobedient
in these little things, and attending so little to her or to Uncle Geoffrey, how likely it
was that I might have gone on to much worse at school and college."

"Never, never!" said Henrietta.

"Not now, I hope," said Fred; "but that was not what I meant to say. No one could say, Uncle
Geoffrey told me, that the illness was brought on either by anxiety or over-exertion. The complaint
was of long standing, and must have made progress some time or other; and he said that he was
convinced that, as she said to Aunt Geoffrey, she had rather have been here than anywhere else.
She said she could only be sorry for grandpapa and grandmamma's sake, but that for herself
it was great happiness to have been to Knight Sutton Church once more; and she was most thankful
that she had come to die in my father's home, after seeing us well settled here, instead of
leaving us to come to it as a strange place."

"How little we guessed it was for that," said Henrietta. "O what were we doing? But if it made
her happy--"

"Just imagine what to-day would have been if we were at Rocksand," said Fred. "I, obliged to
go back to school directly, and you, taking leave of everything there which would seem to you
so full of her; and Uncle Geoffrey, just bringing you here without any time to stay with you,
and the place and people all strange. I am sure that she who thought so much for you, must
have rejoiced that you are at home here already."

"Home!" said Henrietta, "how determinedly we used to call it so! But O, that my wish should
have turned out in such a manner! If it has been all overruled so as to be happiness to her,
as I am sure it has, I cannot complain; but I think I shall never wish again, or care for my
own way."

"The devices and desires of our own hearts!" said Fred.

"I don't think I shall ever have spirit enough to be wilful for my own sake," proceeded Henrietta.
"Nothing will ever be the same pleasure to me, as when she used to be my other self, and enjoy
it all over again for me; so that it was all twofold!" Here she hid her face, and her tears
streamed fast, but they were soft and calm; and when she saw that Fred also was much overcome,
she recalled her energies in a minute.

"But, Fred, I may well be thankful that I have you, which is far more than I deserve; and as
long as we do what she wished, we are still obeying her. I think at last I may get something
of the right sort of feeling; for I am sure I see much better now what she and grandpapa used
to mean when they talked about dear papa. And now do you like for me to read to you?"

Few words more require to be said of Frederick and Henrietta Langford. Knight Sutton Hall was
according to their mother's wish, their home; and there Henrietta had the consolation, during
the advancing spring and summer, of watching her brother's recovery, which was very slow, but
at the same time steady. Mrs. Geoffrey Langford stayed with her as long as he required much
nursing; and Henrietta learnt to look upon her, not as quite a mother, but at any rate as more
than an aunt, far more than she had ever been to her before; and when at length she was obliged
to return to Westminster, it was a great satisfaction to think how soon the vacation would
bring them all back to Knight Sutton.

The holidays arrived, and with them Alexander, who, to his great disappointment, was obliged
to give up all his generous hopes that Fred would be one of his competitors for the prize,
when he found him able indeed to be with the family, to walk short distances, and to resume
many of his former habits; but still very easily tired, and his head in a condition to suffer
severely from noise, excitement, or application. Perhaps this was no bad thing for their newly
formed alliance, as Alex had numberless opportunities of developing his consideration and kindness,
by silencing his brothers, assisting his cousin when tired, and again and again silently giving
up some favourite scheme of amusement when Fred proved to be unequal to it. Even Henrietta
herself almost learned to trust Fred to Alex's care, which was so much less irritating than
her own; and how greatly the Queen Bee was improved is best shown, when it is related, that
neither by word nor look did she once interrupt the harmony between them, or attempt to obtain
the attention, of which, in fact, she always had as large a share as any reasonable person
could desire.

How fond Fred learnt to be of Alex will be easily understood, and the best requital of his
kindness that he could devise was an offer--a very adventurous one, as was thought by all who
heard of it--to undertake little Willy's Latin, which being now far beyond Aunt Roger's knowledge,
had been under Alex's care for the holidays. Willy was a very good pupil on the whole--better,
it was said by most, than Alex himself had been--and very fond of Fred; but Latin grammar and
Caesar formed such a test as perhaps their alliance would scarcely have endured, if in an insensible
manner Willy and his books had not gradually been made over to Henrietta, whose great usefulness
and good nature in this respect quite made up, in grandmamma's eyes, for her very tolerable
amount of acquirements in Latin and Greek.

By the time care for her brother's health had ceased to be Henrietta's grand object, and she
was obliged once more to see him depart to pursue his education, a whole circle of pursuits
and occupations had sprung up around her, and given her the happiness of feeling herself both
useful and valued. Old Mr. Langford saw in her almost the Mary he had parted with when resumed
in early girlhood by Mrs. Vivian; Mrs. Langford had a granddaughter who would either be petted,
sent on messages, or be civil to the Careys, as occasion served; Aunt Roger was really grateful
to her, as well for the Latin and Greek she bestowed upon Willy and Charlie, as for the braided
merino frocks or coats on which Bennet used to exercise her taste when Henrietta's wardrobe
failed to afford her sufficient occupation. The boys all liked her, made a friend of her, and
demonstrated it in various ways more or less uncouth: her manners gradually acquired the influence
over them which Queen Bee had only exerted over Alex and Willy, and when, saving Carey and
Dick, they grew less awkward and bearish, without losing their honest downright good humour
and good nature, Uncle Geoffrey only did her justice in attributing the change to her unconscious
power. Miss Henrietta was also the friend of the poor women, the teacher and guide of the school
children, and in their eyes and imagination second to no one but Mr. Franklin. And withal she
did not cease to be all that she had ever been to her brother, if not still more. His heart
and soul were for her, and scarce a joy and sorrow but was shared between them. She was his
home, his everything, and she well fulfilled her mother's parting trust of being his truest
friend and best-loved counsellor.

Would that her own want of submission and resignation had not prevented her from hearing the
dear accents in which that charge was conveyed! This was, perhaps, the most deeply felt sorrow
that followed her through life; and even with the fair peaceful image of her beloved mother,
there was linked a painful memory of a long course of wilfulness and domineering on her own
part. But there was much to be dwelt on that spoke only of blessedness and love, and each day
brought her nearer to her whom she had lost, so long as she was humbly striving to walk in
the steps of Him Who "came not to do His own will, but the will of Him that sent Him."

THE END