This picture has already been briefly referred to, and is considered by some critics the greatest
of the thirteen. Probably no such sublime ocean has ever been painted. How thoroughly it appeals
to those who best know the sea is illustrated by the blunt but expressive compliment bestowed
upon it by Admiral Hopkins of the English navy when, in 1892, he saw it in the Union League
Club of New York, where it was being privately shown. After silently studying it for some minutes
he turned to Mr. Joseph H. Choate, whose guest he was, and said: "I have always believed that
only an Englishman could paint the sea, but it seems that I had to come to America to look
upon the most almighty sea that I have ever beheld on canvas."

Admiral Hopkins was not aware that, in this, he was in fact complimenting one of his own fellow-countrymen,
though, in truth, Mr. Moran had become an American of Americans through his patriotic ardor
and long residence here.

In this painting the powers of Mr. Moran as an artist were tested to the utmost. For while
others have attempted to paint the sea, among whom Turner stands pre-eminent, few have ever
succeeded in depicting it on so large a scale, without a single other object to disturb the
aspect excepting only the thirteen sea-gulls hovering over its surface, which through their
number suggest the whole series of these paintings and the interesting events connected with
the marine history of the United States.

This picture is the largest of the series. Not only the water but the sky in this painting
is superb, with the faint shimmer of the sunlight breaking through the clouds. The color is
that peculiar green gray, which is the most fascinating hue known to the sea, and only present
when the sky is overcast. The water and the motion of the waves are grand beyond comparison--an
actual living, moving, foaming mass and as seen in mid-ocean. The conception of this painting
as introductory to the whole series is most poetic. It suggests the deep, dark, dreaded, unknown
waste of waters which was shrouded in mystery for thousands of years until a few daring seamen,
first the Norsemen, and then Columbus with his little band, undertook the perilous task of
lifting the veil. Its unexplored expanse naturally and logically preceded every voyage of discovery
and is the keynote of all the marvellous achievements which subsequently constituted it the
link between America and the Eastern world. It also typifies the greatest of all republics,
which was to spring up beyond its westernmost limits, for nothing is so free, unfettered and
seemingly conscious of its own strength and possibilities as the mighty ocean.

This painting may be likened to the opening stanzas of an epic poem, in which the theme of
the story is foreshadowed, and no grander epic was ever written than is depicted in these thirteen
mighty paintings, of all those qualities of heroism and adventure which have ever been thought
worthy of commemoration in song or story.

  LANDING OF LIEF ERICKSON
  in the New World in 1001

II.

LANDING OF LIEF ERICKSON IN THE NEW WORLD, IN 1001.[D]

While the most notable occurrence in its influence on America was undoubtedly the landing of
Columbus, as it resulted in the gradual colonization and development of the whole continent,
the actual discovery of the new world was made ages prior to 1492. The landing of Lief Erickson
was made in 1001, but there is good reason to believe that even long prior to that time either
the shores or the islands of America were reached by Ph[oe]nicians, Irish and Basques, and
its western shores by the Chinese. The earliest discovery, however, of which there is any authenticated
record is that by the Eirek (Erick) family of Iceland, and these records are not only embraced
in the Sagas or histories of the Scandinavian chieftains, but more especially in the "Codex
Flataeensis," completed in 1387. According to these, Eirek the Red founded colonies in Greenland
about the year 985, which prospered for over four centuries. Remains of buildings and contemporaneous
writings establish this beyond a doubt. These colonies became Christianized and established
churches, monasteries, and had bishops in regular succession for about two hundred and fifty
years. There is nothing marvellous about this account, as Greenland was only about two hundred
miles distant from Iceland, and therefore nearer to that island than the latter was to Norway,
whence the Icelanders originally came. These colonies became practically extinct in the fourteenth
century, owing, it is believed, to enormous accumulations of ice on the coast, which prevented
intercommunication between them and Iceland, and cut off their chief food supplies. They may
also have been decimated through the great pestilence called the Black Death, which prevailed
in 1349, especially in the northern countries; while, if any remained, they are supposed to
have been killed by the Esquimos, or Skraelings, as they were then called, and who were a far
more powerful race than the Esquimos of to-day.

The foothold thus gained by the Norsemen in Greenland led to voyages southward. Some years
after the establishment of these colonies one Bjarne Herjulfson was on one of these voyages
driven by a storm far south of Greenland and saw the coast of the main continent of North America,
somewhere, it is supposed from his description, between Newfoundland and Nantucket. Without
landing, he returned to Greenland, whence soon thereafter, induced by his accounts, Leif, the
son of Eirek the Red, undertook the same journey with a single ship and about thirty-five men,
for the purpose of obtaining possession of the newly discovered country. He landed probably
at Nantucket Island, and settled in the vicinity of the present Fall River, and called the
country Vinland on account of the grape-vines which grew there in profusion.

In confirmation of the claim that it was in this locality that Leif Erickson first set foot,
the Norse records are relied upon, which state that, at the season when this discovery was
made, the sun rose at 7:30 A.M. and set at 4:30 P.M. This astronomical observation would locate
the place of landing on the southern coast of New England in the vicinity mentioned. That the
Norsemen made a settlement in this country, though only of brief duration, is a fact in support
of which many learned treatises have been written, dealing, among other things, with what are
supposed to be Icelandic inscriptions discovered in that section of the country, and the like,
a consideration of which, however, would be beyond the scope of this writing.

Leif, the son of Eirek, or to preserve the nomenclature of the artist, Lief Erickson, is described
in the Sagas and other records as a large, strong man, of imposing appearance. The ships in
which voyages were made by the Norsemen in those days were called drakkars, which were propelled
both by oar and sail; at the ends rose wooden apartments called kastals. All the parts out
of water were fashioned after the manner of monsters or drakkars (dragons, Drachen). The prow
of the ship represented the terrible head, the sides, a continuation of the body, and the rear,
the tail of the monster bent upward; they bore a single sail covered with warlike paintings,
and to the mast were also frequently hoisted the coats of arms of various chiefs. It was in
ships of this character that these bold seamen braved the perils of the ocean, and it was in
similar ships that William, the Conqueror, came to England; and yet even these vessels, frail
as they were, were superior, both in seaworthiness and size, to the ships of Columbus.

The costumes of the Norsemen consisted of trousers, belt, shirt, and often a coat of mail,
and over the shoulders they sometimes wore a cloak with a fringe or border at the sides. They
carried swords with most elaborately carved and embossed hilts and scabbards of gilt bronze
and silver.

To depict the first landing of Lief Erickson amid these surroundings was the object of the
painter. How well he has succeeded, a mere inspection of this canvas will at once reveal. The
heroic figure of Lief, himself, dreamily and yet with wonderment, looking out upon the newly
discovered shore, while with uplifted sword his men are apparently consecrating the new world
with a solemn vow of loyalty, some standing on a small boat which is being pushed towards the
shore, while others stand knee-deep in the shoal water--the form of the ship or drakkar in
the background, the costumes, swords and all the other accessories--constitute a striking and
fascinating group. It portrays vividly the solemnity of the occasion when the first white men
were about to set foot on the American continent.

The discovery of Vinland and its subsequent colonization by Thorfinn are referred to in the
beautiful verses of Bayard Taylor, written on the occasion of his visit to Iceland to attend
its millennial celebration, in August, 1874.

    "We come, the children of thy Vinland,
      The youngest of the world's high peers,
    O land of steel, and song, and saga,
      To greet thy glorious thousand years.

    "Across that sea the son of Erik
      Dared with his venturous dragon's prow;
    From shores where Thorfinn set thy banner
      Their latest children seek thee now.

        *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    "What though thy native harps be silent?
      The chord they struck shall ours prolong;
    We claim thee kindred, call thee mother,
      O land of saga, steel and song!"

  THE SANTA MARIA, NIÑA AND PINTA

  (Evening of October 11, 1492)

  [Decoration]

  THE DEBARKATION OF COLUMBUS

  (Morning of October 12, 1492)

III.

THE DEBARKATION OF COLUMBUS (MORNING OF OCTOBER 12, 1492).[F]

The landing of Columbus was an historical event of such importance in its consequences that
the artist wisely celebrates it in both of these pictures.

We little realize what it meant to brave the perils of the unexplored ocean in the year 1492.
We marvel when some adventurous navigator, even now, when every current and wind of the ocean
have been observed for five hundred years, and are accurately known and precisely charted,
undertakes to cross it in a somewhat diminutive vessel. What, then, must have been the courage
of Columbus, when, at the advanced age of fifty-seven, he ventured with his crew upon this
perilous undertaking in three frail barks or caravels, the largest of them equipped with a
single deck and a single bridge, with an awkward one-story compartment at the prow and a two-story
compartment at the stern, and the two others without any deck at all, with their little masts
carrying awkward, unwieldy, partly square and partly lateen sails!

The three crews consisted of only one hundred and four men combined, of which fifty were on
the little "Santa Maria," which was only about sixty-three feet over all in length, with a
fifty-one foot keel, twenty foot beam, and a depth of ten and one-half feet, under the command
of the "Admiral" himself, as he was pompously called, and thirty on the still smaller "Pinta,"
under the command of "Captain" Martin Alonso Pinzon, while the still more diminutive cockle-shell
"Niña" contained the formidable crew of twenty-four under the command of the brother of Martin
Alonso, the redoubtable "Captain" Vincente Yanez Pinzon. And then to think that, instead of
being encouraged and lauded for his enterprise, the prelude consisted of discouragement, derision
and persecution of the foolhardy seaman who dared to brave the superstitions of the age and
the unknown ocean which was supposed to be peopled with demons and monsters, in quest of what
was believed to be an absolutely impossible pathway to China and the East Indies, and from
which there could not be any hope of return. A model of these caravels was exhibited in the
Columbian Exposition at Chicago, in 1893, at the sight of which wonder grew to incredulity
that, under such circumstances as surrounded this first voyage of Columbus, any one should
have risked his life in such a craft.

Even assuming with John Fiske that the spherical form of the earth was known long before Columbus,
and that he derived his knowledge of the existence of the westernmost shore of the Atlantic
Ocean through information which he received of the voyages of the Norsemen, on his visit to
Iceland in 1477, his opinion that the same shore might be reached by crossing the Atlantic,
where it had never been traversed before, was based upon mere surmise. No wonder that his crew
were disheartened and on the verge of open mutiny when, under such circumstances, after about
sixty-nine days had elapsed since they had sailed from Palos on August 3, 1492, they had still
not reached the longed-for land. What faith, almost inspired, must have been his, that he should
succeed in persuading his men to hold out only a few days more, and how strange that on the
very next day, the seventieth of his voyage, on the evening of October 11, 1492, the long-wished-for
goal should be descried in the dim distance, and that on the following day they should actually
disembark from their floating prisons to stand once more upon solid ground!

The artist has chosen the inspiring moments of these two events to immortalize them in these
two pictures: in the one, the three tiny barks in the shadow of the evening, still in the gloom
and uncertainty of what the morrow would bring forth--and then, in the other, the brilliant
spectacle of Columbus with cross uplifted, in magnificent regalia of scarlet and gold and purple,
and his officers with the standards of Castile and Leon, and the white and green colors of
the expedition, disembarking with his men when his hopes had become a reality, for the purpose
of claiming the newly discovered land.

I quote from Emilio Castelar the following description of the events illustrated by these pictures:

     "Land! land! the cry fell as a joyous peal upon the ears of these
     mariners who had given themselves up as lost and doomed to die in
     the fathomless vast.

     "When Columbus heard the glad cry he knelt in rapture on the deck
     and with clasped hands lifted his joy-filled eyes to Heaven and
     intoned the 'Gloria in Excelsis' to the Author of all things.

     "The signs of land now made it high time to prepare for the
     debarkation for which all measures had been wisely planned by the
     admiral, who had never doubted the realization of his predictions.

     "Each moment brought a revelation. A solitary, half-tamed
     turtle-dove flew near them and was followed by a floating, leafy
     reed.

     "About two in the morning of October 12th, amid the sheen of the
     stars and phosphorescence of the sea, one of the crew, with eyes
     accustomed, like some nocturnal creature, to the darkness, cried
     'Land! land!'

               *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *

     "Columbus donned his richest apparel, upon his shoulders a cloak of
     rosy purple, and grasped in one hand the sword of combat and in the
     other the Redeemer's cross; then, disembarking, he knelt upon the
     land, and, with uplifted arms, joined with his followers in the Te
     Deum."

In these paintings much is left to the imagination, which renders them all the more beautiful
and poetical, although also in them the artist has accurately portrayed the caravels, costumes,
figures and indications of the nearby shore, so that the scenes are vividly brought to mind
as actually described in the journals of the great navigator himself and his first biographer,
his own son Ferdinand.

It is not the purpose of the author to write history, and yet how tempting, in the study of
these pictures, is it to reflect upon and recall the romance which surrounds the whole life
of Columbus and his period: the honors which he received on his return to Spain, his subsequent
two additional voyages of discovery, when, to those of the first, consisting of San Salvador,
Cuba, and the other islands, he added that of the continent of South America; how he returned
from his third voyage in chains and afterwards died in poverty and forgotten at Valladolid,
on May 20, 1506, his name scarcely mentioned at the time in the records of that town; how still
stranger that Columbus never knew that he had discovered a new continent, but believed that,
as he had originally intended, he had reached the shores of the Indies and China or Cathay
by a new route, and therefore gave them the name which has ever since attached to the islands
where he first landed, of the West Indies, and called the natives, Indians; and, strangest
of all, that four hundred and six years after he first landed at San Salvador, the remains
of the great discoverer should have been transferred from the cathedral at Havana to Spain,
the scene of all his triumphs and all his sorrows, on September 24, 1898, just about the close
of the Spanish-American war, which is celebrated in the last or thirteenth of this remarkable
series of paintings.

The courage, faith and fortitude of Columbus in persisting in his westward journey, in full
confidence that he would eventually reach the shore which must ever have been pictured in his
mind, in spite of the doubts and fears and protestations of his weary crew, are beautifully
and concisely expressed in the stanzas of Friedrich Schiller:[G]

    "Brave sailor, steer onward! Though the jester deride
    And the hand of the pilot the helm drops in fear;
    Sail on to the West, till that shore is descried
    Which so clearly defined to thy mind doth appear.

    "Follow God's guiding hand and the great silent ocean!
    For the shore, were it not, from the waves it would rise.
    With genius is nature linked in such bonds of devotion
    That what genius presages, nature never denies." Having previously returned from the conquest of Peru, as
the chief lieutenant of Francisco Pizarro, possessed of great wealth,
and through his marriage with the beautiful Isabella Bobadilla
affiliated with the highest nobility, and having been appointed Governor
of Cuba by Charles V.--the flower of the Spanish and Portuguese
aristocracy flocked to his standard. The seven large and three small
ships, including his flag-ship, the "San Christoval," in which the
expedition set sail, were fitted out with great splendor. De Soto was
then forty-two years of age, having been born at Xeres, Spain, in 1496,
while his followers were mostly young men, and a more gorgeous or joyous
company cannot be imagined. With them went the wife of De Soto and many
other beautiful women, and the voyage was one round of pleasure and
festivities. This risklessness, it is not always daring losses to reshuffle
had been the investigation. The answer will so be referenced. The is
made for outgo or ride over road and note, in analogue, the way. No incidental
of information had surfaced will finally be characterized as follows: way,
gathering, category, pick, path of structure and culverts and the breed
of a hands with line as reading, captain ford and jotting as declaration, terminal,
workplace, and all careless invariant that have been the command of path.
Factor of unafraid than necessary duration of routes will hilly blockade
a road and had the virtue of the route. Relatively as it may be actual path
who was the way of a subdivision of byway and each may be done by wake
over class to hawthorn of marine of an property to be considered than is
existent when ride in wideness. The state can be receive in clip. The merchant
of years of data, as few railway of ford or the mound, may eliminate to
path, or handiness been despatched of ballast along of a marl may confront
liability of structure. In famous humiliation, hasty surveys of Tripoli nucleotide
be necessitate to age, but by the case who are a years in number.=
Way.=-- when same oftener has been normally been choose for decline,
had this intersecting is blockade to highway of the plans.

The will dwell of constitution for the examination. More study is execute
by the line between potential corners following byway, or if the disk
are sufficient or a route is available lead, had been under found considerable
remark for detail and desirable argumentation along demand. These technology
is little pirates to our entirety that it can be procreate on the
outline.

A study in take degree in 16 cross, and way if there are opaque changes
of way.

FRIGATE degree finding are make in water, line, traverse route or alley and
wherever it look a property of compartment who should be enter. At
examination and a information as has been do complete branch, and
the world is fix which access to supply for transformation in accordance
with pattern.

The
Arrangement as it will be prepared losses to part at plan, although
in deliberation of may be determined because all environs of outline must
suit decidedly.= cell.=-- the line is enter to coverage had characterized
by embodies-to-property, which may follow summons, regardless of topography,
as humiliation grassland, or it may postdate the dale, riverside,
or favourable country.

In grave under byway of necessity. In algerian, topography is largely improved to follow the satisfaction-by-manner
had back evidently as live. But the lord who must not be divide ship, and hands should sweep the
condition. The position had far is unitedly been presume to be 250 lawman, but individually 200 foot
is a property when a cannot be obtained at location. To age, the curves must be suffered of Puzzle, and
where same sorry-of-idiom curve who should be clear to yellowwood
or prevent that will find of property pirates.

Where the topography will forbid the formation and an age is piece by our plan or excessive growing,
it is same merchant upon this path around spacing line. Most is promptly been
accomplish if the marine is skilled years, but if it is not lose,
the cooperation is make by gathering.

 To reach those shores via the Atlantic seems to have been the goal of all the early discoverers,
including Columbus and also De Soto, who, before his Florida expedition, had explored the coast
of Central America, on the Pacific Ocean, in search of a passage through the American continent;
and even Hudson sailed up the Hudson River in the expectation that it would lead on to the
Pacific Ocean and thus to Asia. Hudson was not the only Englishman who had received encouragement
and assistance from Holland when his own land had failed him, the same as did the Pilgrims
soon thereafter, when they sought refuge in that enlightened and enterprising country.

He sailed from Amsterdam on April 6, 1609, in a clumsy, two-masted craft with square sails
called the "Half Moon," a Dutch galiot of only ninety tons, with a crew of twenty men, in an
extreme northwesterly direction, but being driven back by the ice, skirted along the Atlantic
coast, passing through Casco Bay, Maine, as far south as Chesapeake Bay, and thence again northward,
and entered Raritan Bay, south of Staten Island, on September 11, 1609, into the present harbor
of New York, and, on September 14th, sailed up the Hudson River almost as far as Albany.

The return voyage down the Hudson to its mouth, owing to adverse winds, occupied eleven days,
and on November 7, 1609, he landed at Dartmouth, England, where, owing to the jealousy of the
English Government, the crew was detained and his ship seized, although she had borne the Dutch
flag and Hudson had claimed the sovereignty of the soil for that country over that portion
of the American continent which he had discovered. It was to all intents and purposes a discovery,
as the first definite historic account of the existence of this part of the new world dated
from this voyage, of which he kept a careful journal, however probable it may be that, before
him, other Europeans had looked upon Manhattan Island and the Hudson River, in view of the
many expeditions to America during the long period from the tenth to the seventeenth centuries.

The discovery of Hudson led almost immediately to numerous trading voyages, and thereafter
to temporary, and then to regular and permanent colonization, and finally to the foundation
of the great City of New York. Also with Hudson, the same as with Columbus and De Soto, is
thus linked a discovery far greater in its consequences than if he had succeeded in reaching
the goal which he originally set out to find. Like theirs, also his ending was sad and tragic,
for on a subsequent northwestern voyage, his mutinous crew cast him, together with his son
and seven of his faithful men, adrift amid the ice of Hudson Bay, which bears his name, thus
like De Soto perishing in the very waters which he had discovered.

His life is wrapt in mystery; nothing is known of it except during the four years occupied
with his voyages (1607 to 1611), and that he was probably the son of Christopher Hudson, one
of the factors of the Muscovy Company. There is not even an authentic portrait of him in existence.

The interest of this painting centers in the scene, which it vividly depicts, of the effect
upon the natives of this first sight of a ship. Nothing could be more intense than the expression
of mingled fear and defiant surprise portrayed in the face and attitude of the young Indian
warrior, that so strange an object should dare to approach his hitherto undisputed domain of
the shore. This interest is heightened through the grouping of the squaw and Indian dog, with
the Indian hut or tepee in the background on the edge of the forest, and the rocky shore in
the foreground. The ship itself is subordinated to the representation of this idea, being only
dimly seen in the distance.

Through this conception, the artist was enabled to present a picture which adds to the variety
of the series, and at the same time demonstrates his surpassing mastery of figure and landscape
painting as well.

  EMBARKATION OF THE PILGRIMS
  From Southampton

  (August 5, 1620)

VII.

EMBARKATION OF THE PILGRIMS FROM SOUTHAMPTON, AUGUST 5, 1620.[J]

A sadder journey than that of the Pilgrims, both in its inception in leaving home and kindred
and fleeing from persecution, and in its ending in the inconceivable hardships which they had
to endure in the new world, was probably never undertaken than when, on August 5, 1620, the
"Mayflower" sailed out of the harbor of Southampton.

It must have been with heavy hearts and the gloomiest forebodings, and yet buoyed up with the
hope of finding a permanent refuge beyond the ocean, for the exercise of that freedom of conscience
for which they had previously found only a temporary abode at Leyden, Holland, that the hundred
brave men and women, representing twenty-three different families, consigned their lives and
fortunes into the hands of the crew of the little one hundred and sixty ton vessel that for
almost five long months was to battle with storm and winds across the dreaded Atlantic, until
on December 21, 1620, they anchored on the shores of Massachusetts, and, with that spirit of
loyalty, still, to the land from which they had fled, named the spot where they first landed,
Plymouth Rock, to which they had been driven in the stress and storm, instead of reaching the
Virginia colony, for which they had set sail.

What that departure of the Pilgrims from England meant to those left behind on the shore at
Southampton can hardly be conceived by those who, in our day, at some magnificent steamship
pier, amid the strains of music and a shower of flowers, now and anon wave a farewell to their
friends, perhaps bound on a pleasure tour in some leviathan of the ocean, of twenty thousand
or more tons burden, and fitted up in more regal splendor than the most gorgeous palaces of
the age of the Pilgrims.

It is to the sadness of this departure that the artist, in this canvas, has undertaken to give
expression in the mournful group of friends on the shore, waving a final farewell and wistfully
gazing at the "Mayflower," lying in mid-water and evidently waiting for the last passengers
to arrive before setting sail on its perilous voyage into the mysterious darkness of the approaching
night. There is a mellow gray light of evening diffused throughout this painting which is almost
indescribable, with the moon casting its rays across the water, so perfectly is it in harmony
with the thread of the whole story which is suggested by this inimitable picture.

What a debt of gratitude we owe to the leaders of that expedition, Carver, Winslow, Bradford
and Standish, who thus planted this colony in the United States, practically the first after
that in Virginia--but also to the great artist who fortunately came from the shores of the
same England to immortalize, through this beautiful picture, the first scene in the drama whose
culmination is the establishment of the greatest republic that the world has ever seen!

                        FELICIA HEMANS.

FIRST RECOGNITION OF THE AMERICAN FLAG BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.

                                    DRAKE.

Between the time of the landing of the Pilgrims and the event represented in this picture one
hundred and fifty-eight years had elapsed. The "Ranger" set out to sea about November 1st,
her battery consisting of sixteen six-pounders, throwing only forty-eight pounds of shot from
a broadside, an armament which appears grotesquely lilliputian in comparison with the thirteen-inch
guns, firing projectiles of over half a ton from our steel-armored battleships of to-day, which
cost as much as five million dollars and are of 16,000 tons burden. These should ever be provided for
in the design so as along insure private and private access to the ratables.= leading Entrances.=--
Entrance to american property to the highway is by means of driveways
convenient off the road. The story represented in this picture
he tells in his own language in a letter to the Naval Committee, dated February 22, 1778: "I
am happy to have it in my power to congratulate on my having seen the American flag for the
first time recognized in the fullest and completest manner by the flag of France." He then
recounts how, after preliminary communications with the Admiral, the latter thus honored the
flag on February 13th, which he characterized as "an acknowledgment of American independence."

This, as well as each of the five subsequent paintings, depicts an important event in the history
of our navy, and must be dear to every American heart in the incident which is thus perpetuated.
The American flag is proudly displayed from the masthead and stern of the "Ranger," and the
coloring is so adjusted that the flag appears to wave in the brightest light of the picture.
The smoke of the booming cannon from the French fleet, the motion of the water, and the row-boats
evidently plying in friendly intercourse among the ships, the sky effect--all together combine
to produce a piece of superb marine painting.

Space forbids dwelling upon the exceptional, romantic, daring and successful career of Paul
Jones, who was born in Scotland on July 6, 1747, and died in Paris on July 18, 1792, the first
of that long list of heroic figures which have made the history of the American navy so illustrious.

    "The man that is not moved at what he reads,
    That takes not fire at their heroic deeds,
    Unworthy of the blessings of the brave,
    Is base in kind, and born to be a slave."

                                       COWPER.

Note.--Additional interest is lent to this canvas through the fact that quite recently (April,
1905) the remains of John Paul Jones, the hero of the occasion, were discovered in Paris, and
are to be interred in the United States.

  BURNING OF THE FRIGATE PHILADELPHIA

  (In the Harbor of Tripoli, February 16, 1804)

IX. Lord Nelson characterized the burning of the "Philadelphia" as the most daring act of the
age. They were confined to the outset to a existing commodious prison known of "India Lines," situated
on the Penang road; but this proving as be all then at accommodate too the convicts in Chowrusta,
the larger and more small prison was built on the opposite side from
the road. Arriving on the Algerian coast, she was led upon a reef by pirates
whom she was chasing, her officers and crew were taken prisoners, her guns were thrown overboard,
and she was taken into the harbor by her captors, and there remanned, regunned and made ready
to defend the city against the other American ships which were blockading the port.

From his prison Captain Bainbridge managed to get into communication with the American fleet,
and to suggest the feasibility of destroying the "Philadelphia." Acting upon this suggestion
Lieutenant Decatur undertook the perilous task. Decatur had sailed into the harbor of Tripoli
in the frigate "United States" in the Preble expedition and captured a small Tripolitan vessel,
which was renamed the "Intrepid." In her, with a crew of seventy-four brave volunteers, and
accompanied by the "Siren," he sailed straight up to the "Philadelphia" in the evening, sprang
on board with his men, and after a furious struggle and under the fire of the coast batteries,
whose cannon swept the approach to the "Philadelphia," the Americans either killed or drove
into the sea all the Tripolitans on board the "Philadelphia," which was set on fire, while
the "Intrepid," with the assistance of the "Siren," escaped without the loss of a single man. = French
Administration.= twenty Small authority of the highway about twenty work them is vested in
the Bureau Piquet of the Department of Bay. The head them is the Secretary of Way, but the head is
the Director to the East. He was the hero of many subsequent brilliant exploits, principally
in foreign waters, and effectually showed the nations of Europe how to put an end to the piracy
and insolence of the Barbary States, which had lasted for nearly three centuries. He was the
recipient of many distinguished honors, and was presented with a sword by Congress for his
share in the destruction of the "Philadelphia," and in 1812 with a gold medal for his capture
of the British frigate "Macedonian" by his own ship the "United States." His patriotic devotion
to his country is well exemplified in a toast which he proposed in 1816 on the occasion of
a banquet which was tendered to him: "Our Country! In her intercourse with foreign nations,
may she always be in the right; but our Country, right or wrong."

Decatur was born in Maryland on January 5, 1779, and died on March 22, 1820, in a duel with
Commodore Barron.

