The reason for the inclusion of the Erasmian essay is never clearly stated in the other sections
of the Treatise. Nor do the other translators suppose a reason. From the internal evidence
of the essay and from headnotes preceding it, we may assume that the purpose is one of supplying
readers with an example of amplification of a brief theme, first illustrated in miniature,
and then full blown into a long declamation. The essay does not appear to be illustrating the
numerous figures discussed in the initial section of the work.

Of Sherry we know little. Beyond the dates in the DNB, we infer from his works that he had
an intense interest in English and had a desire for his countrymen to communicate well in the
vernacular. He was interested in religion, was most likely a Protestant, and hoped to continue
an interest in religion which he developed in his youth. He was also a teacher. And although
Latin was still a living language, the task of inculcating a new tongue in the students fell
to the schoolmaster; Sherry was active in this capacity. This does not weaken an acclamation
we possess of the man: “He was a Person elegantly learned.”

  HERBERT W. HILDEBRANDT

  The University of Michigan
  February 25, 1960

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  A TREATISE OF SCHEMES AND TROPES
  by Richard Sherry                      1

    Introduction                           2
    Eloquucion                            17
    Of Evidence and Plainness             19
    Of the Three Kyndes of Style          21
    Scheme and Figure                     25
    Faute                                 32
    Garnyshyng and His Kyndes             38
    Figures of Sentence                   62
    Proves                                78

  THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN
  by Desiderius Erasmus                 97

  ¶ A treatise
  of Schemes & Tropes
  very profytable
  for the better vnderstanding of good
  authors, gathered out of the best
  Grammarians & Oratours
  by Rychard Sherry Lon
  doner.

  Whervnto is added a declamacion,
  That chyldren euen strayt frõ their
  infancie should be well and gent-
  ly broughte vp in learnynge.
  Written fyrst in Latin
  by the most excel-
  lent and
  famous Clearke, Erasmus
  of Rotero-
  dame.

  To the ryght worshyp
  ful Master Thomas Brooke
  Esquire, Rychard Shyrrey
  wysheth health euer-
  lastynge.

[Sidenote: The tytle of thys worcke straunge.] I doubt not but that the title of this treatise
all straunge vnto our Englyshe eares, wil cause some men at the fyrst syghte to maruayle what
the matter of it should meane: yea, and peraduenture if they be rashe of iudgement, to cal
it some newe fangle, and so casting it hastily from thẽ, wil not once vouchsafe to reade it:
and if they do, yet perceiuynge nothing to be therin that pleaseth their phansy, wyl count
it but a tryfle, & a tale of Robynhoode. But of thys sorte as I doubte not to fynde manye,
so perhaps there wyll be other, whiche moued with the noueltye thereof, wyll thynke it worthye
to be looked vpon, and se what is contained therin. [Sidenote: Sheme and Trope.] These words,
Scheme and Trope, are not vsed in our Englishe tongue, neither bene they Englyshe wordes. [Sidenote:
Vse maketh straũge thinges familier.] No more be manye whiche nowe in oure tyme be made by
continual vse, very familier to most men, and come so often in speakyng, that aswel is knowen
amongest vs the meanyng of them, as if they had bene of oure owne natiue broode. Who hath not
in hys mouthe nowe thys worde Paraphrasis, homelies, vsurped, abolyshed, wyth manye other lyke?
And what maruail is it if these words haue not bene vsed heretofore, seynge there was no suche
thynge in oure Englishe tõgue where vnto they shuld be applyed? Good cause haue we therefore
to gyue thankes vnto certayne godlye and well learned men, whych by their greate studye enrychynge
our tongue both wyth matter and wordes, haue endeuoured to make it so copyous and plentyfull
that therein it maye compare wyth anye other whiche so euer is the best. [Sidenote: Oure language
falsely accused of barbarousnes.] It is not vnknowen that oure language for the barbarousnes
and lacke of eloquence hathe bene complayned of, and yet not trewely, for anye defaut in the
toungue it selfe, but rather for slackenes of our coũtrimen, whiche haue alwayes set lyght
by searchyng out the elegance and proper speaches that be ful many in it: as plainly doth appere
not only by the most excellent monumentes of our aũciẽt forewriters, [Sidenote: Gower. Chawcer.
Lidgate.] Gower, Chawcer and Lydgate, but also by the famous workes of many other later: [Sidenote:
Syr Thomas Elyot.] inespeciall of y^e ryght worshipful knyght syr Thomas Eliot, which first
in hys dictionarye as it were generallye searchinge oute the copye of oure language in all
kynde of wordes and phrases, after that setting abrode goodlye monumentes of hys wytte, lernynge
and industrye, aswell in historycall knowledge, as of eyther the Philosophies, hathe herebi
declared the plentyfulnes of our mother toũge, loue toward hys country, hys tyme not spent
in vanitye and tryfles. What shuld I speake of that ornamente Syr Thomas Wyat? which beside
most excellente gyftes bothe of fortune and bodye, so flouryshed in the eloquence of hys natiue
tongue, that as he passed therin those wyth whome he lyued, so was he lykelye to haue bene
equal wyth anye other before hym, had not enuious death to hastely beriued vs of thys iewel:
teachyng al men verely, no filicitie in thys worlde to be so suer and stable, but that quicklye
it may be ouerthrowen and broughte to the grounde. Manye other there be yet lyuynge whose excellente
wrytynges do testifye wyth vs to be wordes apte and mete elogantly to declare oure myndes in
al kindes of Sciences: and that, what sentence soeuer we conceiue, the same to haue Englyshe
oracion natural, and holpẽ by art, wherby it may most eloquẽtly be vttered. [Sidenote: The
occasion of thys treatise.] Of the whych thynge as I fortuned to talke wyth you, Master Brooke,
among other matters this present argument of Schemes and Tropes came in place, and offered
it selfe, demed to be bothe profitable and pleasaunte if they were gathered together, and handsomelye
set in a playne ordre, and wyth theire descriptions hansomely put into our Englishe tongue.
And bicause longe ago, I was well acquaynted with them, when I red them to other in y^e Latin,
and that they holpe me verye muche in the exposicion of goode authores, I was so muche the
more ready to make them speak English, partli to renew the pleasure of mine old studies, and
partelye to satysfy your request.

¶ [Sidenote: Rodulphus Agricola.] Beside this, I was moued also wyth the authorytye of that
famous clarke Rodulphus Agricola, whyche in a certeine epistle wryten vnto a frynde of hys,
exhorteth mẽ what soeuer they reade in straunge tongues, diligently to translate the same into
their owne language: because that in it we sonar perceiue if there be any faute in our speaking,
and howe euerye thynge eyther rightly hangeth together or is darkely, ruggishly, and superfluously
wryttẽ. No lerned nacion hath there bene but y^e learned in it haue written of schemes & fygures,
which thei wold not haue don, except thei had perceyued the valewe.

¶ Wherefore after theyr example obtaynyng a lytle lesure, I red ouer sundrye treatises, as
wel of those which wrot long ago, as of other now in our daies: fyndynge amonge them some to
haue wrytten ouer brieflye, some confuselye, and falselye some. [Sidenote: Mosellain.] Mosellane
hathe in hys tables shewed a fewe fygures of grammer, and so hathe confoũded them together,
that his second order called of Loquucion pertayneth rather to the rhetoricians then to hys
purpose. [Sidenote: Quintilian.] Quintilian briefly hathe wrytten bothe of the Gramatical and
rhetorical Shemes, but so that you may soone perceyue he did it by the waye, as muche as serued
hys purpose. [Sidenote: Cicero.] Cicero in hys boke of an oratour with hys incompetable eloquence
hathe so hid the preceptes, that scarselye they may be tryed oute by theyr names, or by theyr
exãples. [Sidenote: Erasmus.] Erasmus in hys double copye of words and thynges, hath made as
y^e tytle declareth but a comentarye of them bothe, and as it wer a litle bil of remembraũce.
Wherefore to make these thinges more playne to y^e students that lyst to reade them in oure
tongue, I haue taken a lytle payne, more thorowelye to try the definicions, to apply the examples
more aptly, & to make things defused more plaine, as in dede it shal ryght wel apere to the
dylygente. I haue not translated them orderly out of anye one author, but runninge as I sayde
thorowe many, and vsyng myne owne iudgement, haue broughte them into this body as you se, and
set them in so playne an order, that redelye maye be founde the figure, and the vse wherevnto
it serueth. Thoughe vnto greate wittes occupyed with weightye matters, they do not greatelye
pertayne, yet to such as perchaũce shal not haue perfecte instructoures, they may be commodious
to helpe them selues for y^e better vnderstandynge of such good authors as they reade. ¶ For
thys darre I saye, no eloquente wryter maye be perceiued as he shulde be, wythoute the knowledge
of them: for asmuche as al togethers they belonge to Eloquucion, whyche is the thyrde and pryncipall
parte of rhetorique. The common scholemasters be wont in readynge, to saye vnto their scholers:
Hic est figura: and sometyme to axe them, Per quam figuram? But what profit is herein if they
go no further? In speakynge and wrytynge nothyng is more folyshe than to affecte or fondly
to laboure to speake darkelye for the nonce, sithe the proper vse of speach is to vtter the
meaning of our mynd with as playne wordes as maye be. [Sidenote: A figure not to be vsed but
for a cause.] But syth it so chaunseth y^t somtyme ether of necessitie, or to set out the matter
more plaĩly we be compelled to speake otherwyse then after common facion, onles we wil be ignorante
in the sence or meaninge of the mater that excellente authors do wryghte of, we muste nedes
runne to the helpe of schemes & fygures: which verely come no sildomer in the writing and speaking
of eloquente english men, then either of Grecians or Latins. Many thinges might I brynge in
to proue not onely a great profyt to be in them but that they are to be learned euen of necessitie,
for as muche as not only prophane authors wythout them may not be wel vnderstand, but that
also they greatelye profit vs in the readinge of holye scripture, where if you be ignoraunte
in the fyguratiue speches and Tropes, you are lyke in manye greate doubtes to make but a slender
solucion: [Sidenote: Westimerus] as ryght wyll do testefy Castelio Vestimerus and [Sidenote:
Augustinus] y^t noble doctor saint Augustine. I confesse I haue not made the matter here so
perfecte as my wyll and desyer is it shoulde haue ben, and that I haue but brieflye touched,
and as it were with my litle fynger poynted to these thinges, which require a lẽger declaracion.
For what can be hasted, and absolute to? But if God spare me lyfe, I truste hereafter to make
it an introducciõ, wherbi our youth not onlye shall saue that moste precious Iewell, Time,
whyle they wander by them selues, readynge at all aduentures sundry and varyous authors: but
that also thei shalbe able better to vnderstande and iudge of the goodlye gyftes and ornamentes
in mooste famous and eloquente oratoures. [Sidenote: And apte similitude.