Koto and the others looked doubtful at that, but I had been thinking hard of the problem all
the while we were talking. I motioned unobtrusively toward the end of the room, where a tunnel,
blue-lighted and lined with curious, glittering dials like ammeters, gave entrance, evidently,
to another great underground chamber. On the floor of that tunnel, close to the entrance, lay
a pile of heavy stalactites of some mineral which resembled jade. The spikes had seemingly
been cleared off the tunnel roof and left to be carried away. They were pointed enough to be
used for stabbing, and looked heavy enough to make stout clubs.

Captain Crane smothered an exclamation as she glanced at the pile, and Koto and LeConte smiled.

Our conversation all this while had been carried on with seeming casualness, and not even the
leader of the Orconites showed suspicion. More than ever I felt that neither they nor Leider
would be prepared to defend the ship against a sudden physical attack.

"The weak point for us," I said, "is that we'll have to make an awful row, and the alarm will
go out, and eventually some weapon will be brought out to stop us. But if we work quickly,
there's a good chance that we can finish everything before Leider is able to step in with some
devilish freak instrument. Take it easy until we've got the clubs, and then cut loose for all
you're worth. Captain Crane, it's a great pity you're a woman. In all this you'll simply have to--"

I did not finish. Something in the look she gave me stopped me quite, and somehow, whether
I would admit it or not, I knew she was as fit as we were. By this time we were strolling away
from the ship toward the tunnel.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Blue-lighted, brilliant, the opening loomed larger as we approached. The same sounds of static
on a vast scale which filled our cavern, filled the tunnel, but the place was deserted. The
pile of jade spikes shimmered right at the entrance. A few of the guards behind us sauntered
at our heels without speaking, and the dozen or so about the tunnel closed in toward the opening,
but no restraint was put upon us.

"We seem to have the freedom of the place and the key to the city!" was Captain Crane's dry
comment.

"Yes," I answered. "I'm pretty sure it's going to be a case of lambs led to the slaughter.
Looks as if--Oh, good Lord, look!"

At the moment when I spoke those last words, we had approached to within thirty or forty feet
of the pile of stalactites, and from the quick movement which eight or ten Orconites made ahead
of us, drawing themselves up in a line across the tunnel mouth, I knew that we had almost reached
the limit of our freedom. But it was not that fact, or the movement of our guards, that brought
the exclamation from me.

"Look!" I cried again, even though I knew each of the others had seen as clearly as I.

From where we were walking slowly forward, it was possible to see clear down the tunnel to
the tall, lighted cavern beyond our own. In the center of that cavern, with her nose pointing
toward a wide tunnel down which showed a glimmer of daylight, rested the long, needle-like,
bright hull of the most beautifully designed space flier I had ever seen.

We did not need to be told that this was Leider's own cruiser. A ship of such magnitude and
exceeding beauty could have been nothing else.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The guards knew we had seen and were aware of our excitement, but contented themselves by standing
fast in the line they had already formed across the tunnel. We advanced another few yards.

"Mother of Mercy!" LeConte whispered, almost in awe.

"There's a chance for us!" Koto gasped. "A chance! We'll set one of the guns going in the hold
of our own ship, and then--"

Captain Crane's face was flushed with intense excitement, and her fingers were moving as though
she felt the delicate controls of the space ship under them even now.

"Could you pilot it?" I asked.

"Could I! Give me the chance!" she cried.

"All right," I snapped, "we will!"

And in that second I enlarged my plans to take this gorgeous new development into account.

"Fight to take the cruiser," I ordered. "Captain Crane, Koto, LeConte, get aboard as soon as
you can cut your way through. I'll take care of our ship and the kotomite at that time and
join you, if possible. Come on!"

Thus was it decided. Thus did we enter our fight with an outlook as utterly different from
our original one as hope is different from despair. Our discovery of the cruiser had been almost
accidental, a thing which might never have taken place except for our trip to get the spikes
of jade. Surely such a happy accident had never happened before!

                   *       *       *       *       *

The moment I gave the command to go ahead, and we started to run, all of the ugly, bird-like
faces of the Orconites across the tunnel became convulsed, and the creatures commenced to howl
at us. Before we hurled ourselves against the line, swift reinforcements shot through the air
over our heads and joined them, and the temporary uncertainty which had held them gave way,
so that they met our advance with an advance of their own. But we did not care.

A few smashing blows which I delivered with my fists served to bring screams of agony from
the several creatures immediately about me, and as one or two staggered and crashed to the
floor, the others gave way a little. In a moment I was through the line to the pile of stalactites.
And the others were through with me.

"Here you go, Koto!" I cried, and stooping down in spite of the jostling bodies and clammy
hands that tried to prevent us, I caught up one of the long, needle-pointed, heavy stalactites.
As I shoved it at him and snatched another for myself, Captain Crane and the others armed themselves.

By this time every Orconite in the heavy guard was on the spot, and the whole mass was all
over us, gasping, burbling, flapping their wings, fighting to clutch at us with their hideous
orange hands and waving antennae. Decidedly the fight was on, and I was forced to admit the
fact that, though these creatures might be sheep, even sheep have power. But the first skirmish
was already won, and I had faith that we could win the real battle.

I balanced my peculiar weapon in my hand to get the feel of it, then brushed aside a pair of
sucking paws which were trying to take it from me, and plunged the spike clean through the
body of the man who held me.

He fell without making a sound. I regained my weapon by planting my boot on his chest and wrenching
it free.

I swung the spike like a club and crushed two heads with a single blow at each. A downward
blow served almost to hack a long, clutching arm from an Orconite's body. With four men out
of the struggle, I looked to see how my companions were faring, and was assured by a single
glance that they were as well off as I.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Encouraged greatly, I met an advance of pressing, jostling bodies by a return to my original
technique of stabbing. I stabbed every time a hand reached out to hold me, and if I did not
take a life with each stab, I at least drew a spout of greenish-colored blood.

It was not a nice business, any of it, especially as the Orconites were as fearless before
our onslaught as they were powerless. But it had to be done. We were fighting for far more
than our own lives.

The blue-lighted corridor with its rippling sounds of static and its gigantic ammeters became
worse than a shambles. We walked upon, stumbled over, wallowed amongst the piled corpses of
the slain, whose master, knowing more of the science of destructive warfare than any other
being in the Universe, had nevertheless forgotten that it was still possible for mankind to
fight with their hands.

Such a fight could have only one ending.

When the end came I saw that Virginia Crane was splashed with the ugly blood of the Orconites
from her smooth forehead to the soles of her flying boots, but she was unhurt. The rest of
us were likewise blood-stained and uninjured. We were all too excited to feel tired. The moment
the pressure about us began to relax, she surged toward the waiting cruiser at the end of the
tunnel, and I shouted to Koto and LeConte.

"Go and help her, you two! I'll do the work on our ship!"

They did not question my order, but obeyed.

There were only ten or a dozen of the winged ones left now, and when the two men leaped after
the woman, it was easy for me to fight a jabbing, slashing battle which not only protected
the retreat, but enabled me to work my way slowly toward our own ship and its kotomite.

                   *       *       *       *       *

With Leider's cruiser already headed toward the tunnel which led out from the underground hangar,
I knew that it could be taken into space with a minimum loss of time. I believed that I could
get an atomic gun going in our hold quickly, too. My hopes rose high as I darted a glance over
my shoulder and saw Captain Crane and Koto taking, three at a time, the gangway steps which
led to the deck and control room, with LeConte directly behind them. Now there were only seven
guards left instead of a dozen, and those were at last showing signs of being cowed. I cut
down two, and gave a great bound which carried me away from the others in the direction of
our wrecked ship.

No sooner, though, did I tense myself for a second leap than I felt a nerveless sensation in
my knees, as though the bones had turned to butter, and knew that my high hopes had budded
too soon. Instead of leaping, I staggered on for two short steps, then stopped because I could
stagger no farther. Looking back at the cruiser, I saw that LeConte, still on the gangway,
had stopped also. Captain Crane and Koto were making weak, despairing signs at me from the
entrance to the control room. Both of them looked as sick as cats. I heard a laugh, a shrill,
rasping sort of laugh, from the forward end of the bright cruiser, and I looked in that direction.

I saw a short man, bald headed, with frog eyes peering at us from behind thick prismatic glasses.
He was clad in baggy green overalls, and was slowly waving in our direction a glistening metal
tube which he held in both hands. From the end of the tube emanated a purplish light.

"You were clever, my good young friends," he chortled, "to think of fighting with your hands,
but you were not quite quick enough. Not to-day goes anyone in my cruiser! What do you think
of the enervating ray, heh? Ingenious, not? Ludwig Leider discovered it. I am Ludwig Leider.
You shall come with me and with your own eyes watch the de-energizing of New York and Paris
and Berlin. For I am ready to do away with your paltry Earth now!"

I felt the last energy ooze out of me and I sunk, all in a heap, on the floor of Ludwig Leider's
cavern.

CHAPTER V

Death in a Box

New York. We did see it with our own eyes. The instrument through which we gazed was like a
metal box with a ground-glass top and a mesh of slender wires leading away from the table on
which the box rested. Leider touched a button amidst a long row of buttons on the table. All
we had to do after that was to look at the ground-glass plate, and the picture was there.

We, in Leider's private laboratory on Orcon, saw the crowds of a mass meeting of some sort
in Union Square, saw a boy and a girl kissing each other in the shadow of bushes in Central
Park, saw a little fox terrier watching with only one eye open.

We could not speak, any of the four of us, as we stared at that very simple box which wrought
miracles. I stood still, thinking of the things which had happened after our capture, when
the cruiser had already seemed to be in our grasp.

First of all, Leider had restored our energy to us by the simple process of turning off the
ray which emanated from the tube in his hands. Then a veritable legion of Orconites had come
to the cavern in which the cruiser rested, and we had been marched through the very heart of
the power rooms, with their hum and clack and dazzle of mighty machinery, to the laboratory.
That was all.

The Orconites had left us outside the heavy doors of the private room, but, just as there had
been no opportunity to attack while they marched with us, Leider gave us no opportunity to
harm him while we were alone. Though he had forgotten once the damage we could do in a fight,
he was not going to be fooled again. He kept the great table of the box between ourselves and
him, and his wary hands were always closer to a certain row of control buttons than ours were
to his.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was he who broke at last the silence which had fallen as we watched New York from Orcon,
and his voice was loud in the hushed laboratory from which the noises of his subterranean power
houses were shut out.

"Sit down," he commanded, "and keep away from the table and the reflector."

Then, when we had taken chairs beside the table, he began to speak to us.

"That little dog you saw--I have it in my power to withdraw from him in one second all the
energy which makes him run, jump about, live. That I can do by touching controls here at my
table without even leaving this marvelous, marvelous room." A frown crossed his forehead above
his pop-eyes, and he exclaimed with swift anger, in a croaking voice, "And what I do to the
little dog, I can do as easily to the whole population of your loathsome Earth!"

I looked up at him where he stood with the table between us, and at length found my tongue.

"And of course you will do it, you swine!" I burst out.

His momentary anger had passed as swiftly as it had come, and, ignoring my epithet, he rocked
smugly on the balls and heels of his feet and smiled.

"Ah, Herr Doktor," he answered contentedly, "I will destroy Earth, of course! For who has better
cause than I, whom Earth would not accept as her master? All of the people there will lose
the power to move, and they will die. I am ready now, in the uttermost degree. After you so
neatly but uselessly saved yourselves from drowning last night, I finished. As easily can I
de-energize the peoples of Earth as I can you--the four of you--if you should make the move
to harm me."

                   *       *       *       *       *

Captain Crane was staring first at Leider, then at me, and her cheeks were gray and ghastly
looking. Koto and LeConte were both sitting tight in chairs beside our own, watching me rather
than Leider. I looked over the shelves, the whole complex apparatus of that incredible room,
but saw no weapon of any kind. And my hands were useless because his were so close to the damnable
controls.

"But what becomes of Earth itself, after our peoples are gone?" I asked presently.

Leider shrugged and his eyes twinkled behind the thick glasses.

"Herr Doktor, you are a brilliant man. Amongst the most brilliant, I should say, of any who
on the Earth have labored. Yet of science you know less than a child. What should I do with
Earth except to sit here in my own room, and, with the anarcostic ray, reduce its solid structure
into stardust which will drift away into space like the smoke from one tiny match? Pouf! like
that."

I looked at the table, at Leider's wary hands. I knew that the man was ready, even as he had
said, to do away with Earth. I guessed that we would die, too, when Earth was gone--probably
here in this room. And it seemed likely that the destruction would begin at a not distant moment,
for there was some quality of fanatical evil lurking even now in Leider's face.

Then, however, I stiffened in my chair very suddenly indeed. If I could find a way to get close
to the box on the table without rousing Leider's suspicion, the outlook might not be so black!

"Leider," I exclaimed all at once, and there was a vigor in my words, "it's all very well for
you to be saying these mighty things, but do you know what? I don't believe you can draw the
energy out of the human race or disintegrate the Earth, either!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

I think if I had kicked him I could not have surprised him more. Which was exactly what I had
hoped to do.

"You--you do not believe?" he said, incredulously.

"No I don't!"

"Ach, Gott!" A black fury overcame him. Hideous fury. He was already standing beside the table.
Quaking from head to foot, he pointed savagely at the box. "Get up and look into the reflector!"
He choked and his voice rose to a scream. "Get up! Stoop close to the reflector and watch!
Watch there, I say!"

The thing which had launched me on my course of action was the fact that the picture-making
box was not screwed to the table. The only thing which held it there was the soft mesh of wires!

With a concealed gesture to the others to stay still, I rose, placed my hands on the table
close to the box, and leaned forward as though to look at the glass.

"It shall come now!" Leider yelled, and at that moment took his eyes off me, while he reached
with a rage-palsied hand for the twinkling line of buttons.

The instant he looked away from me, I gave a tug which jerked the heavy box away from its wires
as easily as a weed is plucked from soft earth. As I made the move Leider looked up and screamed.
His hand, already reaching for the buttons, darted forward. But the instant had been all I
needed. Before the darting hand ever reached the table, I struck Leider a sharp blow, and hurled
the box to the floor.

In a moment more the others were around me. The box was shattered to matchwood. Leider was
lying on the floor behind his table with one arm doubled limply under him and dark blood welling
from a forehead gash which I hoped went as deep as his brain.

Koto and LeConte kicked open the laboratory door and shot through. Captain Crane and I jumped
after them.

CHAPTER VI

Through the Darkness of Orcon

Gongs clanged, blue lights flashed on and off with the lurid glare of sulphur pits burning
in hell, and screaming, winged Orconites, all mixed up together, pelted toward us as thickly
as the snowflakes of a blizzard. I don't suppose the destruction of one little mesh of wires
had ever created such a disturbance before.

Leider's cruiser rested in the hangar two caverns away.

"Play hide-and-seek with them!" I shouted against the turmoil.

The initial wave of the attack struck us as we tore from the laboratory corridor into the first
power room. Captain Crane went down under the onslaught of what must have been a hundred Orconites,
and it took all the tearing strength of Koto's, LeConte's, and my hands combined to burrow
through the piles of creatures who covered her, and get her out. By the time she was on her
feet again, a new legion was at us.

I had not, however, suggested hide-and-seek meaninglessly.

While the others fought, and wildest confusion reigned, I pulled off my coat, flung it aside,
and crammed myself into a loose, one-piece costume of Orcon which I tore off a corpse. Then
I fought while my three companions repeated the operation. We succeeded in confusing the mob
to such an extent that we were able to work our way through the fringes of the melee and move
clear across the first room, before we were recognized.

                   *       *       *       *       *

