Because I have reached Paris, I am not ashamed of having  passed through Newhaven and Dieppe.
They were very good  places to pass through, and I am none the less at my  destination.  All
my old opinions were only stages on the way  to the one I now hold, as itself is only a stage
on the way to  something else. I admire them with their inner
reluctance and certain uneasines, as my nature in generally everything decadent,perverse, and disliked.
I have much more fun. For example, to the simple dandelion, lots of sun in his color, so much
like the sunshine. I can fully appreciate how it opens the slightest
shadow, but close again being shy.

What
evenings and nights now! Yesterday had an indescribable magic to it
all.

The sky was lit from sunset to late Opal, with strips of indefinite paint smeared across such
a great range at which the painter after a strenous days work, has his brush wiped with a broad gesture
to go to bed. There a bit of thunderstorms humidity in the air,and a light herzbeklemmende
voltage. The shurbs were completlely motionless, I heard the nightengal, but the indefatigable Garden
Warbler witht he black head huptfe around the branches, shouting shrilly. Eveything seemed to be
waiting for something. I stood at the window waiting also, for god knows what. After including
the six, I have to wait even between heaven and earth on nothing
more, Wronke.

Sonitchka on July 20th, 1917, was my favorite because my death here,
it dragged on longer than I accepted.

                                              

You willg ewt a last greeting from Wronke. As you might think, I will write you more letters. My attitude
towards you has not changed, it could not be helped. I did not write because, since the departure
of Ebenhausen I have done rush of a thousand things, in part probably because I was in a temproary
mood. It goes with me to Bteslau, you know that already. I have this morning taken by my little leave garden.
The weather is grey stormy and rainy, the sky hunted with tattered
clouds, and yet I have taken my usual morning walk today to the fullest.

I took leave of the narrow, paved road along the wall. Which I now nearly nine months in have
been hurrying back and forth in which I now have every stone and every Unkrautlein, that grows
between the stones, just so you know. The bright colors on the stones interest me. They are red, blue,
green and grey. In the winter especially, you must wait for the lively green which could have
colored my hungry eyes. The stone managed to leave a little bit of color and sought inspiration.
Now in the summertime, because so muich exisited between the stones, it becomes so peculiar
ad interesting to see! Here dwell namely masses of wild bees and wasps.


And mark you, it would be no less foolish to begin at  Gravesend with a chart of the Red Sea.
SI JEUNESSE SAVAIT, SI  VIEILLESSE POUVAIT, is a very pretty sentiment, but not  necessarily
right. Do you like my Broodcoorens? Or you knew him already?
I had taken this very novel, especially the scenic descriptions are of the highest poetic power.
The Broodcoorens seems evident, as the De Coster that "over the country Flanders," the sun rises
and more glorious than the other is Earth. I think that the Flemish are all in love literally in
their little country, they describe it's not like a piece of beautiful earth, but as a radiant
young bride. And in the dark and tragic end, I find a kinship with the magnificent colors of
the images in Till Eulenspiegel, for example, with the demolition of public house. Do not
you, remember that these books in the whole complexion of Rembrandt: the darkness around the images,
mixed with a sparkling Altgoldton, and the startling realism of details and yet the whole caught
in a fairy tale fantasy region.

In the "Berl. Tageblatt, I read that in the Friedrich-Museum is a new great Titian. Have She
already visited? I admit that Titian really not my friend, he is me to lick and cold, to virtuoso
- forgive, if perhaps a treason is, but I can not help but follow as my immediate sensation. Nevertheless,
I would happy if I could into the Friedrich-Museum to visit the new guest. Have They also saw
the merchant's estate, of which one has made such a fuss?

My reading are now includes several older studies of Shakespeare from the 60s and 70s Years
ago, when still alive in Germany was debating the issue Shakespeare. Could Me not from the Royal.
obtain library or from the Diet Library: Klein, History of Italian drama; Schack, history
of dramatic literature in Spain; Gervinus and Ulrici about Shakespeare? How you can even stand
to Shakespeare? Write soon! I embrace you and you press the hot hand.
  We should not compliment a hungry man, who should  refuse
a whole dinner and reserve all his appetite for the  dessert, before he knew whether there
was to be any dessert or  not.  If there be such a thing as imprudence in the world, we  surely
have it here.  We sail in leaky bottoms and on great  and perilous waters; and to take a cue
from the dolorous old  naval ballad, we have heard the mer-maidens singing, and know  that
we shall never see dry land any more. 

Is the conviction? He was sorry!

I looked at him sympathetically and said:

"Are you satisfied now,
wretch?"

"Silence," shouted the officer.

I was led out and after half an hour later admitted, S. .. wept sobbing,
and said to me:

"M. .., forgive me, just exceeding great love to
you I've been missing, I would be happy when I with you together could
serve my sentence, to love you even more. "

"Silence," called back
the officer.  If
we wish to  scale Mont Blanc or visit a thieves' kitchen in the East End,  to go down in a
diving dress or up in a balloon, we must be  about it while we are still young. They were hard-headed, and I fought with them for a long time,and
when I finally released those I had hurt, such a long time had passed that the grass had become
overgrown...I left with the strange feeling that he had been a dubious sort of godsend. In spite
of everything, in this beautiful night I find that I am still in
love now.

On the far side of the field, I once kept many blackbirds. You can
still see them, but no longer hear them.
  And this mobility is a  special talent entrusted to his care; a sort of indestructible
virginity; a magic armour, with which he can pass unhurt  through great dangers and come unbedaubed
out of the miriest  passages. The editors). That is
to say, i bouncy an dreamland inward which he has not all in. As me, he goes and i grin at him much
while i esteem him.

Sonitchka bouncy, you adept. I am in order pleased to ascertain you.