Receiving no direct answer to his appeal, the speaker now took two or three of the leading
opposers aside, and, after conversing with them a few moments, returned, and announced to Haviland
that he was at liberty to depart. Haviland, though by nature an honorable man, had yet suffered
himself to enter deeply into the personal animosities of Peters towards Woodburn, which, with
his political and aristocratic prejudices, had caused him to think of the young man only with
feelings of contempt and bitterness. And when he witnessed the noble conduct of the latter,
first in rescuing his daughter from the flood, and now so generously interposing in his behalf,
it produced that struggle between pride and conscience, whose operation is so forcibly expressed
by the sacred writer just quoted. And, although he could bring himself to acknowledge his obligations
only by a formal and constrained bow, yet the conflicting and painful expressions that were
seen flitting over his disturbed countenance, as he now returned to the sleigh, plainly told
how effectually, and with what punished feelings, his enmity had been silenced. But not so
with his single-minded and quickly and justly appreciating daughter. She had no prejudices
to combat, no pride to conquer; and she, therefore, witnessed each new act of her deliverer
with as much pleasure as gratitude--feelings which sought expression in no parade of words,
it is true, but in the more meaning and eloquent language of the kindly tone and sweetly-beaming
countenance. And, in her low-murmured, "Thank you--thank you for all," as Woodburn handed her
to her seat in the vehicle, he felt a thousand fold repaid for all he had ventured for her
sake; while the speaking smile, with which she the next moment turned to him, and nodded her
adieu, left an impress on his heart destined never to be effaced.

While this was transpiring, Peters, who had been standing apart from the rest of his company,
sullenly looking on, without uttering a word, except to bid Haviland go on without him, contrived,
without exciting any suspicion of his design, to work himself by degrees to the outer edge
of the crowd, in the direction in which the team was about to pass. And, as the sleigh, which
was now put in motion, approached him, he made a sudden feint of running the opposite way;
when, as the crowd were confusedly springing forward to head him, he quickly tacked about,
leaped into the sleigh, and, snatching the reins and whip from Haviland's hands, applied the
lash so furiously, that the frantic horses bounded forward with a speed which carried the receding
vehicle more than fifty yards on its course, before the balked and confused throng could recover
themselves, and fairly comprehend what had happened. But the sharp, bitter shout of execrations,
mingled with cries for immediate pursuit, which now rose from the agitated multitude, proclaimed
at once their hatred of the haughty loyalist, and their determination not to suffer him to
escape from justice And the next instant, a half dozen swift runners, led on by Dunning, shot
out from the crowd, in the eager chase, like so many arrows speeding to the mark. And, notwithstanding
the supposed advantages of horses over men in a race, and notwithstanding the increased speed
with which the fugitive team thundered along over the half-bare and uneven ground, the pursued
had scarcely reached the end of a furlong, before the fleet and determined hunter, still in
advance of his companions, gained the side of the sleigh, leaped up, pounced upon his cringing
victim, and brought him headlong to the ground, leaving Haviland to seize the relinquished
reins, check the horses as he best could, and proceed on his way unmolested.

"There! you ditter sneak of a runaway tory. You will now go, I der rather calculate, where
there's no ditter petticoats to shelter you," said Dunning, raising the chapfallen Peters by
the collar, and drawing him along back, amidst the exulting shouts of the revolutionists, by
whom he and his friend Brush were then forced away, in no very gentle manner, to join their
fellow-prisoners, in the same dungeon where the victims of their last night's outrage were
so unfeelingly and so unwisely immured.

A detailed description of the various scenes which here succeeded, in the winding up of this
local revolution, as it may justly be denominated, would occupy too much space for the limits
of our tale, without evolving any further incident, having much bearing on the destinies of
those of its personages whose fortunes we design to follow. We will now, therefore, sum up,
in a few words, the doings of the triumphant party, and, with a comment or two of our own,
dismiss the subject.

In the first place, all the supposed actors and abettors of the massacre within reach were
seized and secured, excepting Redding and one or two others of a like character, who, by their
activity in assisting to apprehend the fugitive comrades whom they had so meanly deserted,
and their offers to give evidence against them, had purchased an exemption from punishment,
and excepting also the Janus-faced Chandler, who, by his duplicity, had contributed more than
any other man, perhaps, towards this catastrophe, but who now contrived to make even his iniquities
count in his favor. [Footnote: As the acts of this notorious personage, whose character we
have been at considerable pains to ascertain, and accordingly portray, will have no further
connection with our story, we cannot forbear, before dismissing him entirely, giving the reader
a short account of his subsequent career, and singular end. Although, by his facility of accommodating
his political principles to those of the majority, and his alacrity of tacking about, and mounting,
like a squirrel on a wheel, so as to be found rising to the top in every revolution or counter-revolution
of public sentiment, he thus adroitly managed to get appointed to some offices of minor importance,
under the new state government, yet, becoming every year better and better understood, and
consequently more and more distrusted, he finally sunk into utter insignificance and contempt;
and, falling into pecuniary embarrassments, brought about by a long course of secret fraud
in selling wild lands, of which he had no titles, he was confined for debt in the very building
in which the massacre occurred; where, as if by the retribution of Heaven for the part he once
there acted, he soon died, unhonored and unlamented. And, what is still more remarkable, his
remains were strangely destined to be denied even the respect of a common burial. For some
exasperated creditor having attached the body, and the neighbors, from a notion that prevailed
at that time, supposing, that by removing the body for a public burial they would make themselves
liable for his debts, suffered it to remain till it became too offensive to be endured, when,
at the dark hour of midnight, a few individuals went silently to the prison, got the putrid
mass into some rough box, and drew it on the ground to the fence of the neighboring burial-ground;
and, having dug a horizontal trench under the fence, and a deep pit on the other side, pushed
through and buried up all that remained of the once noted Chief Justice Chandler. An old, decayed
oak stump, still standing, is the only object that marks the site of his grave.] After this
was effected, the victors, all but enough to constitute a safe guard, laid aside their arms,
and resolved themselves into a sort of civil convention, to take measures for the trial of
the prisoners by some mode, which, in the absence of all proper authorities, should answer
for a legal process. And, as the first step in the matter, a jury of inquest, to sit on the
dead body of French, was ordered, and a committee appointed to see to the empanelling of impartial
men, and collect evidence and conduct the investigations to be had before them. All this being
duly accomplished, and the jury bringing in a verdict that the deceased came to his death by
the discharges of muskets, in the hands of Patterson, Gale, and others therein enumerated,
all the latter, thus designated as the murderers of the unfortunate young man, were taken,
and, under the authority of another order or decree of the convention, marched off, under a
strong guard, to the jail in Northampton, some forty or fifty miles into the interior of Massachusetts,
and there confined, to be tried for their lives at the next court that should be holden in
the county where the offence was committed; while a less deeply implicated portion of the prisoners
were put under bonds to appear at the court to answer to the charges of manslaughter and assault,
or made to undergo other punishments and restrictions immediately imposed by the convention.
[Footnote: Among the different kinds of sentences imposed on the class of offenders here last
named, was one dooming Judge Sabin to the limits of his own farm, and making it lawful for
any one catching him off of it to kill him. And so deep was the public indignation against
this inveterate loyalist and supposed secret abettor of the massacre, that he was narrowly
watched for the chance of executing the penalty. An aged revolutionist, from whom this fact
was derived, stated that he had lain many a Sunday, with a loaded rifle, in the woods near
the judge's farm lines, to see if he would not, when coming out to salt his sheep, stray over
his limits. But the old fellow, he said, was always too wary for him.] The actors in the outrage,
who comprised nearly all the leading members of the British party in that part of the Grants
lying east of the mountains, having been thus summarily disposed of, the people, now taking
the government into their own hands, and acting in primitive assembly, proceeded to reorganize
the county, by the appointment of new judges, and all the usual subordinate officers, of their
own principles, to adopt measures to reduce to submission or drive away the remaining loyalists
of the county, and, finally, to declare themselves alike independent of the government of Great
Britain and of New York.

Thus terminated this memorable outbreak, which acquired additional importance from the fact,
that it resulted in the entire subversion of British authority in this, the only section among
the Green Mountains where it ever gained a foothold. And not small the praise, which, in view
of the circumstances, should be awarded to the hardy spirits by whom this miniature revolution
was achieved; for, so great was the power of patronage exercised by this court, and the influence
of those enjoying office or immunities under it,--a great majority of whom were stanch, and
the rest tacit, supporters of the royal cause,--that, till the occurrence of this sanguinary
affair, it is evident the former had but little hope of being able to overthrow this petty
local dynasty without assistance from abroad. The aged survivors of that stormy period inform
us, indeed, that but for the massacre of Westminster, it would have been difficult to predict
whether the opening of the revolution, a few months afterwards, would have found, in the section
in question, a whig or tory majority predominating. But that act of murder and madness, which
the loyalists here, with the strange infatuation attending their doings almost every where
else at the time, seemed destined to commit, as if to hasten their own overthrow, settled their
doom.

  "It was the electric flame to fire the hearts
   Of a true people."

And while it opened the eyes of hundreds of the hitherto acquiescent, it armed the opposing
with an energy and determination in their cause, which at once became irresistible; and when
the war-note was subsequently sounded by such patriots as Benjamin Carpenter and his associates,
it found a ready response in every glen and corner of the surrounding country, and the hardy
settlers seized their arms, and, with the cry of French and vengeance! hastened away to the
scenes of action at Lexington, Ticonderoga, and Bunker Hill.

We are aware that some historians have classed this affair among the difficulties and skirmishes
growing out of what has usually been termed the New York controversy, while others have treated
the subject in a manner which shows them to be doubtful in what light to place the transaction;
and, for that reason apparently, they have slid over the matter in those general and ambiguous
terms so often and reprehensibly indulged in by writers at a loss about facts, to conceal their
own ignorance, or to avoid the responsibility of deciding the point at issue. But a careful
examination of the subject has led us to the conclusion, that the affair in question had little
or no connection, in reality, with the New York controversy, but that it was wholly of a revolutionary
character. No resistance to the authority of New York had ever been previously made in this
section of the Grants; nor did the opposers of this court, in any of their remonstrances, or
other proceedings, either before or after the massacre, assign any reason for their doings
which can be fairly construed into an objection to the jurisdiction of that province, as such;
or any otherwise than that it had, up to that time, refused to adopt the resolves and recommendations
of the Continental Congress. On the contrary, all their arguments are based on their duty and
determination of joining their revolting brethren in the other colonies, and, consequently,
of resisting the longer continuance of British authority among them. Such, indeed, is the ground
taken by Dr. Jones, in his minute and authentic account of the occurrence, in which he was,
as we have made him in our illustrations, an actor. And even the inscription on the tombstone
of the ill-fated French, written when the transaction, and all its attendant circumstances,
were fresh in the minds of all, sufficiently proves, if further proof were necessary, that
the version we have given of the affair is identical with the one generally understood and
received at the time." [Footnote: The inscription here alluded to, which we insert as supporting
our position rather than as affording any new antiquarian curiosity to many readers, is verbatim
as follows:--

  "In memory of William French, son of Mr. Nathaniel French,
   Who was shot at Westminster March y'e 13th 1775 by the hands
   of Cruel Ministerial tools of George y'e 3d, in the Court
   House, at 11 o'clock at night, in the 22d year of his age.

  "Here William French his Body lies
   For murder his blood for vengeance cries
   King George the third, his tory crew
   Tha with a bawl his head shot threw
   For liberty and his country's good
   He lost his life and dearest blood."]

It was this view of the occurrence which led us to occupy the space we have devoted in attempting
to illustrate it; for it becomes invested with a new interest and new importance, when it is
considered, as we think it must be, that here was enacted the first scene of the great drama
that followed; here was shed the first blood, and here fell the first martyr, of the American
revolution.

CHAPTER IX.

  "They sank till their fair land became a sty
   Stygian with moral darkness. Heart and mind
   Debased--dark passions rose, and with red eye,
   Rushed to their revel; until Freedom, blind
   And maniac, sought the rest the suicide would find."

The traveller of the present day, as he enters the town of Guilford, on the southern confines
of Vermont, will soon be struck with the peculiar appearance of many things around him. Few
or no traces of a primitive forest are to be seen, while its place is supplied by a heavy second
growth of woods, sixty or seventy years old, in the midst of which the remains of old enclosures
and other indications of former habitations are not unfrequently observable. On the cleared
farms, also, may often be seen three or four different clumps of aged fruit-trees, scattered
about in the nooks and corners of the lot, and sometimes extending into the woods, in such
a manner as to preclude the idea that they could have been planted under any thing like the
present arrangements of the farm and its buildings. Near these old relics of former orchards
may likewise generally be perceived some levelled spot, remains of old chimneys, traces of
cellars, or other marks of dwellings long since removed, or fallen to decay. These, with many
other peculiarities, give to the whole town an aspect nowhere else to be seen in Vermont, nor
even, perhaps, in any part of New England. And if the traveller be of a fanciful turn, he will
associate the place with the idea of some deserted country, resettled by a new race of men;
and even if he be a mere matter-of-fact man, he cannot fail to perceive that the town must
have been originally tenanted under a division of lands and an order of things quite different
from those now existing. And either of these suppositions would be far better justified by
the facts than most of the speculations of modern tourists made in their flying visits through
the land, as will be seen by a recurrence to the early annals of this town, of which, for the
purpose of insuring a full understanding of some scenes here about to be described, we must
be permitted to give a brief outline.

The events connected with the first settlement of the town of Guilford, which afterwards became
so noted as the stronghold of toryism and adherence to the New York supremacy, form a curious
anomaly even in the anomalous history of Vermont. The territory comprising this township appears
to have been granted, as early as 1754, to a company of about fifty persons, by a charter,
which, unlike that of any other town, empowered the proprietors, in express terms, to govern
themselves and regulate the concerns of their little community, by such laws as the majority
should be pleased to enact, without being made amenable to any power under heaven, save that
which might be exercised by the British Parliament. Being thus constituted a band of freemen
and legislators, at the outset, they soon took possession of their chartered piece of wilderness,
organized by the election of the proper officers of state, and assumed the title of an independent
republic, which their charter, in fact, created, any control of the Parliament of England being
as little to be apprehended, in their secluded retreat among the wilds of the Green Mountains,
as that of the Great Mogul of Tartary. And as novel as was the idea of a republic at that early
period, when "the divine right of kings" to govern all men was as little questioned as the
divine right of Satan to afflict the pious Job of old, this enterprising little band of settlers,
for many years, appear to have well sustained the character they had assumed, not only by carrying
out, in all their public doings, that essential principle of a republic which makes the will
of the majority supreme, but by the simplicity of their tastes and habits in private life,
and their beautiful exemplification of the great law of love, that can only be fulfilled towards
our neighbors by according to them equal rights and privileges with ourselves. At length, however,
new doctrines began to prevail, and the independent character of our little republic was soon,
in a good degree, forfeited; and that, too, by the very means, it would seem, which had been
taken to make it flourish and increase. It had been one of the conditions of the charter that
every grantee should become an actual settler, and, within five years, clear and cultivate
five acres of land, for every fifty purchased. And in accordance with this cunning policy for
insuring the actual and rapid settlement of the place, the township had been laid out in fifty
and one hundred acre lots, except the governor's right of five hundred acres, which his excellency
of New Hampshire, in granting Vermont lands, never forgot to reserve for his own use, in every
township, but which the proprietors generally contrived, as in this instance, to have set off
on the highest mountain in town, considering it but respectful and fitting, as they used waggishly
to observe, that so elevated a personage should be honored with the most elevated location.
And the effect of this policy, together with the low prices at which the lands were put, and
other inducements held out to draw in settlers, soon became visible in the rapid increase of
the population, and consequent improvement of the town. So unexampled in these new settlements
was its progress, indeed, in both the particulars we have just named, that within twenty years
from the time when the sound of the axe was first heard in its woody limits, the inhabitants
were found to number nearly three thousand; while fields were every where opened in the wilderness,
and buildings raised in such neighborly contiguity, that the whole town presented the appearance
of a continuous village. It is not very surprising, therefore, that, through such an influx
of settlers, coming from all parts of the country, and including many interested and active
partisans of the York jurisdiction, a majority should soon be obtained, who were induced to
depart from the views of the first settlers respecting the independence of their community,
and adopt the more fashionable form of subordinate government, which prevailed in all the towns
around them. And accordingly we find them, at their annual meeting in 1772, voting the district
of Guilford, as they termed it, to belong to the county of Cumberland and province of New York,
and thereupon proceeding to reorganize the town, agreeably to the laws of that province. This
change, however, does not appear to have been followed by any material alteration of their
internal polity, or to have been productive of any great civil discord, till about the time
of the opening of the American revolution; when the town became the prey of contending factions,
of so fierce and lawless a character as to convert this once Arcadian abode of virtue, simplicity,
and rural happiness, into a theatre of violence and social disorganization, which never, perhaps,
found a parallel within the limits of order-loving New England. Sometimes the York party and
tories,--for, in this town, it so happened that the two were identical,--and sometimes the
whigs and friends of the new state of Vermont, were in the ascendant; while scenes of such
disorder and outrage were constantly occurring between the belligerent parties, that his honor,
Judge Lynch, for many years, appears to have been not the least among the potentates of this
notable republic. Nor was order restored to the ill-starred town till after the close of the
war; when every refractory spirit, whether tory or Yorker, was punished or awed into submission
by the fiery energy of the iron-heeled Ethan Allen, who, then being relieved from the pursuit
of more important game, came thundering down upon the town with his hundred Green Mountain
Boys, proclaiming to the disaffected, with demonstrations which they well knew how to interpret,
that the peaceable and instant submission of the place to the new authorities of the land should
alone save it from being "made as desolate as the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah".

It was a dark and gloomy day in April, and the sleety storm was beating, in fitful gusts, against
the broken and creaking casements, and the disjointed, loose, and leaky covering of an old,
dilapidated log-house, standing by the road-side, in one of the thousand little dales, which,
with their corresponding hills, so beautifully diversify the face of the town we have been
describing. But as comfortless as this miserable hut was, and as poor and insufficient a protection
from the elements as it afforded, even for the healthy and robust, it was now the only shelter
of a sick and destitute woman, the widowed mother of Harry Woodburn. The hand of her son's
persecutor, as it not unfrequently is seen to occur in the history of human oppression, was
destined to fall even more heavily on her than on him for whom the blow was designed. The minion
officer, selected by Peters for the purpose, had no sooner received his warrants, than, faithful
to the cruel instructions of his employer, he had repaired post-haste to the residence of the
absent Woodburn, of which he was authorized to take possession, and, with insults and abuse,
rudely thrust the lone and unprotected occupant out of doors, in despite of all her entreaties
for mercy, or delay till her son should return, or even for one day, to give her an opportunity
to find some shelter for her now houseless head. He then, with the aid of the three or four
ruffian assistants enlisted to accompany him, threw all the furniture out of the windows or
doors into the mud and snow beneath where the whole, consisting of crockery and glasses, now
half broken by the fall, and beds, linen, kettles, chairs, tables, and the like, soon lay piled
promiscuously together. Having thus driven the terrified and distressed woman from the comfortable
abode which had formerly cost her and her deceased husband so many years of toil to erect and
furnish, and having, to add to the wrong, either injured or destroyed the greater part of her
little stock of goods, by the wanton or careless manner in which they had been removed, this
brutal officer next proceeded to the barn, and by virtue of his copias for costs, seized the
cow and oxen, the last remaining property of the wronged and ruined young man, which, after
intrusting the present keeping and defence of the premises to two of his band, he drove away
to another part of the town, to be sold at the post, as soon as the forms of the law, respecting
notice of the sale, could be complied with. The poor widow, half distracted at being thus suddenly
bereft of house and home, spent the remainder of the day in vainly endeavoring to procure some
tenement into which she could remove with her furniture, or with so much of it as might yet
be saved. On the next day, however, as a last resort, she obtained and accepted the present
use of the deserted cabin we have described, situated but a short distance from the house from
which she had been ejected. And into this comfortless place, after several days of incessant
toil and exposure, she succeeded in getting her damaged furniture, but not till her exertions,
combined with her anxieties and grief, had given rise to a malady which, though not at first
very threatening, became, each subsequent day, more and more alarmingly developed in her overtasked
system. In this situation she was found by her son, who, being entirely ignorant that any judgment
had passed against him, and, consequently, little dreaming what was taking place at home, had
remained at Westminster nearly a week after the massacre, attending the public meetings, which,
as we have before intimated, followed that event; when he returned to Guilford, and, with feelings
bordering on desperation, learned the extent of his misfortunes. But the bitterness of his
feelings, as great as it was, at being stripped of all his property through such a series of
wrongs, soon became wholly merged in anxiety and grief for his sick and sorrow-stricken parent,
and in the exasperating thought that her sickness and suffering proceeded from the same source
with his other injuries. And close and unremitting had been his attentions to her, until the
day previous to the one on which we have introduced her to the reader; when he had been induced
to leave for Brattleborough, or other more distant towns, to try to obtain money to redeem
his stock, which was now about to be sold, and which was worth more than double the amount,
as he had recently ascertained, of the execution on which it had been seized. On the morning
after his departure, she had become so much worse that she was compelled to take to her bed,
and despatch her only attendant for a doctor. That attendant was Barty Burt, who had come down
from Westminster with Woodburn, and had been engaged by the latter to remain with his mother
during his absence. Having thus glanced over the events which had occurred previously to the
opening of this new scene of our story, we will now return to the point we left to make the
digression.

Slowly, to the suffering invalid, rolled the sad hours away, as with thick and labored breathing,
she lay tossing upon her rude couch, standing behind a blanket-screen, in one corner of her
cheerless abode. Occasionally she would raise her fevered head from the pillow, and seem to
listen to catch the sounds of expected footsteps, and her languid eye would turn anxiously
towards the door; when, after thus exerting her senses in vain a few moments, she would sink
back upon her bed, with a long-drawn, sighing groan, which told alike of disappointment and
bodily anguish. At length, however, footsteps were heard approaching, the door opened, and
Barty Burt stilly glided into the apartment, and approached the bedside of the sufferer.

"You have come at last, then," said she, lifting her dim eyes to meet the face of the other.
"It seemed as if you never would arrive. But where is the doctor?"

"He will be on afore long, mistress; but I've had a time on't in getting round, I tell ye!"
replied Bart.

"I am very sorry, if you have had any unexpected trouble on my account," meekly observed the
invalid; "but what has befallen you?"

"O, nothin," answered the former--"nothin, at least, but what I was willing to bear for Harry's
sake, who invited me home here till I got business, or for yours, who let me be. Though to
be stopped and bothered, when one is going for the doctor, is worse than I ever thought of
humans before. But it shows their character--dum 'em!"

"Did they really stop you, knowing your errand?"

"Yes, that they did, mistress. As I was going by the tavern, a mile or two up the road yonder,
three or four of them torified Yorkers came out, and told me I couldn't go for the doctor,
nor nowhere else, without a pass from one of their committee. So I had to post back more than
half way, to Squire Ashcrafts, and there had to be questioned a long while before he would
give me any pass at all. And then again, when I got to the doctor's, he said he wanted a pass,
too; for he darsent go to see a whig woman without one, which I must go and get him from Squire
Evans, another committee man. Well, finding there was no other way to get him started, I went,
feeling all the time just between crying and fighting. And as soon as I got the bit of paper
into the doctor's hands, I put for home, leaving him fixing to come horseback, which is the
reason of my getting here first."

"These are, indeed dreadful times," sighed the widow. "But they cannot always remain; for,
though God may chastise us a while for our sins, yet the rods of the oppressors will surely
be broken."

"I'd rather see their necks broken," responded Bart, dryly "When we left Westminster, I thought,
as much as could be, the tories were all used up; but I find 'em down here thicker than ever
now, and as sarcy and spiteful as a nest of yellow jackets that, like them, have been routed
in one place and got fixed in another. Blast their picturs, how I hate 'em!"

"That is not right, Barty. You should love your enemies. Evil wishes, towards those who injure
us, are both wicked and foolish."

"I don't understand, mistress."

"Why, Barty, to love is to be happy, as far as circumstances will permit; and to hate is but
to feel disquieted and miserable. So when we keep the command to love our enemies, we obtain
a reward which often outbalances the evil they inflict on us, or, at least, enables us the
better to bear it; while, on the contrary, when we hate those who injure us, we receive a double
evil--the wrong they inflict, and the unhappiness created by the exercise of our revengeful
passions. Did you ever think of that, Barty?"

"No, mum; Harry talks kinder that way, sometimes; but I can't understand it, no how."

"With your means of moral instruction, perhaps it is not surprising that you should not; so
I will drop the subject, and ask you if you heard any thing of Harry, while you were gone."

"No, mistress; didn't see nobody that knew he was gone."

"O, when will he return? He has now been gone two long, long days; but I must not repine."

"Why, mistress, I kinder guess he'll be along to-night, unless so be he's met with considerable
bother to get the money, or somethin. He must be here afore to-morrow afternoon, when the sale
is, you know."

"Yes, I knew the sale was delayed till town meeting day, which is to-morrow, I believe; though
for what reason they put it off I never heard. Harry felt so bitter about the affair, that
I thought I would not disturb his feelings by making any allusions to the subject. But there
appeared to be something about it that I didn't understand. Why didn't the sale take place
last week, as first appointed?"

"For as good a reason as ever a tory officer had for doing any thing--or not doing any thing,
may be, I should say--in the world," replied Bart with a knowing look.

"What was it?"

"Why, when the day come, he couldn't find any cattle to sell."

"What had become of them?"

"Well, mistress, I don't know how much it is best to say about that, considering. But I shouldn't
be surprised," continued the speaker, while a sly, roguish expression stole over his usually
grave, impenetrable countenance, "that is, not much surprised, if it turned out that two or
three of Harry's friends got the cattle out of the barn where they were keeping, one dark night,
and driv 'em off into the woods, near the top of Governor's Mountain, and then backed up hay
enough to keep 'em a spell; while the company took turns, for a few days, in going a hunting
over the mountain, so as to come round, once in a while, to fodder and see to the creters,
for which old Bug-Horn paid in milk, on the spot. Now, mind, I haven't said I knew this was
so, but was only kinder guessing at it; for all that's really known about it--that is, out
loud--is, that Fitch and his men found the cattle up there; and the way they found them was
by following up the trail made by the hay straws that some one, after a while, grew careless
enough to scatter from his back-load along the path."

"Did my son have any hand in this affair?" asked the widow, anxiously.

"No, mistress; Harry is so kinder notional about some things, that we thought--that is, I guess
some thought--it wasn't best to say any thing to him about the plan till his cattle were fairly
saved."

"I am glad to hear it. I should rather see him deprived of his last penny than do a questionable
act. We should never do wrong because others have done wrong to us."

"There is a differ between your think and mine, I see, mistress. If they did wrong in getting
away Harry's cattle so, as every body knows they did, then the tother of that--getting them
back again--must be right. But you needn't tell any body what I've said, mistress; for they
might, perhaps, have Bill Piper and me up, and try to make barglary out of it--or simony, I
don't know but the law folks would call it--the breaking into a log-barn. But hush! Somebody's
coming. It is the doctor."

Doctor Soper, who now entered, was a small, pug-nosed, chubby man, of ostentatious manners,
and high pretensions to skill and knowledge in his profession; though, in fact, he was but
a quack, and of that most dangerous class, too, who dip into books rather to acquire learned
terms than to study principles, and who, consequently, as often as otherwise, are found "doctoring
to a name," which chance has suggested, but which has little connection with the case which
is engaging their attention.

"Ah, how do you find yourself, madam?" said the doctor, throwing off his dripping overcoat,
and drawing up a chair towards the head of the patient's bed.

"Very ill, doctor," replied the other. "Not so much on account of the loss of strength, as
yet, as the deeply-seated pain in the chest, which, for the last twenty-four hours, has caused
me great suffering; though, for the last half hour, not so severe."

"Indeed, madam! Well, now for the diagnosis of your disease. I pride myself on diagnostics.
Your wrist, madam, if you please," said the doctor, proceeding to feel the pulse of his patient,
with an air intended for a very professional one. "Tense--frequent--this pulse of yours, madam;
showing great irritability. Your tongue, now. Ay--rubric--dry and streaked; usual prognostics
of neuralgy. Pretty much made up my mind about your complaint coming along, madam, having learned
from your lad here something of your troubles and fright on losing your home. And I was right,
I see. It is neuralgy--decidedly a neuralgy."

"What is that, doctor?"

"Always happy to explain, madam, so as to bring my meaning within the comprehension of common
minds. Neuralgy madam, is a derangement of the nerves. Your disease, precisely."

"Why, I am not at all nervous, sir," responded the patient, looking up in surprise.

"You may not think so, madam. Few do, in your case."

"And then, doctor, I have an intense inward fever," persisted the other, "and my lungs seem
much affected."

"Nervous fever, madam," returned the doctor, too wise to be instructed, "and lungs sympathetically
affected--that's all. Quiet and strengthen the nerves, and all will be right in a short time.
I shall prescribe Radix Rhei, in small doses, assafoetida, quinine, and brandy bitters of my
own pieparing. These, with nourishing food, as soon as you can bear it, will speedily restore
you, madam."

Having dealt out the prescribed medicines, calculated rather to increase than check the poor
woman's malady, which was inflammation of the lungs, the self-satisfied doctor, swelling with
his own importance, departed, leaving his patient now to contend with two evils, instead of
one--a dangerous disease, and the more dangerous effects of a quack's prescription.

"What time is it now, Barty?" asked the invalid, with a deep sigh, as she awoke from a troubled
slumber, into which she had fallen after the doctor's departure.

"Why, don't know exactly, mistress," answered Bart, rousing himself from the dreamy abstraction
in which he had been indulging, as he sat looking into the decaying fire--"don't know, exactly;
but it has got a considerable piece into the night. About nine o'clock, guess; may be more."

"Nine o'clock at night, and Harry not yet returned!" sighed the invalid. "Well, well, I will
complain no more."

"Can I do any thing for you, mistress?" asked her untutored attendant, touched at the sad and
despondent tone of the other.

"You may bring me in a pitcher of fresh, cold water, with some ice in it, if you will, Barty,"
replied the former. "It seems to me as if this inward heat was consuming my vitals, since I
took the doctor's medicines."

The youth, with noiseless step, then disappeared with his pitcher, and, in a few moments, returned
with it filled with water and several pieces of clear, pure ice, which were heard dashing against
its sides.

"How grateful!" said the sick woman, as she took from her lips the wooden cup which had been
filled and handed her by her attendant, and from which she had eagerly drained nearly a pint
of the cooling beverage at a single draught. "There, now, set the pitcher on the table yonder,
and raise the largest piece of ice up in sight, so, as I lie here, I can look at it. The mere
sight of it seems to do me good."

Another dreary hour rolled away in silence, which was broken only by the restless motions and
occasional suppressed groans of the invalid within, and the wailing of the winds and the pattering
of the rain against the windows without, when a slow, heavy step was heard coming up to the house.

"That is he--that is his step!" faintly exclaimed the sick woman, partially raising herself
in bed, and gazing eagerly towards the door; while her pain-contracted features were, for the
moment, smoothed by the smile of affection and pleasure that now broke over them, like the
faint electric illumining of a weeping cloud.

The quick ears of the afflicted mother had not deceived her. The next instant Harry Woodburn
entered the room, and, with a gloomy, abstracted air, proceeded to divest himself of his wet
coat and muddy boots, without uttering a word, or bestowing any thing more than a casual glance
towards the bed, to which he supposed his mother had just retired, as was usual with her, about
this hour, and not suspecting that she was more indisposed than when he left her. But as he
now turned and approached the fire, his eyes fell, for the first time, on her haggard features
when, stopping short, with a look of surprise and lively concern, he exclaimed,--

"Mother! are you worse, mother?"

"Yes, Harry, I am very, very sick; and O, how glad I am that you are come."

For several moments he said nothing, but stood gazing at her with the distressed and stupefied
air of one struggling to shut out painful apprehensions. At length, however, he aroused himself,
and made a few hasty inquiries relative to her disorder, and what had been done for her; and,
having been informed of all that had occurred in his absence, and now appearing fully to comprehend
the danger of her situation, he sat down by her bedside, when his lip soon began to quiver,
and his strong bosom heave with tumultuous emotions, while bitter tears flowed down his manly
cheeks, as this crowning blow to his misfortunes was brought home to his feelings.

"Had they been content," he said, struggling hard, but vainly, to master his feelings--"had
they but been content with robbing me of my property, I could have borne it; but to be the
means, also, of murdering my only parent, is more than I can endure. God help me, or I shall
go mad!"

"Do not--do not be so distressed, my son," said the mother deeply touched at this exhibition
of feeling, accompanied as it was with such a proof of filial affection in her idolized son,
and anxious to soothe and divert his mind. "I shall recover, if God wills it. Let us, then,
bow in resignation to his dispensations, and not disturb our feelings with unavailing regrets.
Come, my dear son, cheer up, and tell me how you have succeeded in the object of your journey."

"No success," he replied, gloomily. "No; I have been running from town to town since yesterday
morning, and have not been able to obtain a single dollar. So the cattle must go to satisfy
the stolen judgment of that insatiable Peters."

At this moment the conversation was arrested by a low rap at the door, when, after the customary
walk in had been pronounced by Woodburn, the door was gently opened, and a tall robust young
man, with a frank, open countenance, hesitatingly entered.

"Good evening, folks," he said, in a suppressed tone. "I didn't exactly know what to do about
calling to-night, on account of disturbing your mother, Harry; but wishing to know whether
you had got home, and hear the news if you had, I thought I would venture to rap. What is going
on up country?"

"Nothing very new, I believe, Mr. Piper."

"Well, what luck about the money, Harry?"

"None--none whatever."

"I am sorry for that. No, I won't lie, now; I am not sorry, Harry; and I will tell you why,
hereafter. All I wanted to know to-night was, whether you had got the wherewith to redeem the
cattle, to-morrow being the last chance for doing it, you know."

"Yes, I was aware of it, friend Piper; and many thanks for the interest you take in my misfortunes.
But I cannot redeem the stock. It must go: nothing more can be done to save it."

"Well, I don't quite know about that, Harry. I don't know about standing by, and seeing a neighbor's
property snatched away from him on such smuggled papers. But let that turn as it may, the subject
brings to mind a certain circumstance, which I will name, after first asking a question; and
that is, whether Peters has not been hung?"

"Peters hung? Why, no; the prisoners are not to be tried till the new court we have been appointing
at Westminster holds its first session, some weeks hence. But why do you ask so strange a question?"

"Well, Harry, by way of answer, I will tell you the circumstance I alluded to, which was this:
Last night, as I was crossing about town drumming up friends to attend the meeting tomorrow,
seeing we are expecting a hard tussle, I met a man that I could have sworn was John Peters,
if I had not known the fellow was close in Northampton jail; and as it was, I could swear it
was his exact shape and appearance. Well, knowing it could not be him bodily, it soon struck
me that they had been hanging off a parcel of them there, Peters among the rest, and that this
was his ghost, kinder hovering about here to see if his affairs were fixed up to his liking."

"Your notion of a ghost, Piper, if you are serious about it, is a11 nonsense," said Woodburn,
who had listened with lively interest to the singular story of the other. "Yes, that is nonsense;
but it has brought to mind a rumor which reached Brattleborough yesterday, that all the prisoners
at Northampton had been liberated by habeas corpus from the chief justice of New York, and
were now at large. Although this was not credited, yet, if you saw Peters here last night,
as I begin to fear, the story must have been true. And he appears here, at this time, for the
double purpose of seeing, as you said, whether his orders have been carried into execution,
and of being present to use his corrupting influence at town meeting to-morrow."

"Well, Harry, that's about what I meant; for I saw him sure enough, and knew, at once, that
we had got to have him against us at town meeting, which makes our case rather doubtful. We
felt quite sure, before this, of being able to carry a majority; and in that case, some of
us counted on getting a vote to rescue your cattle, or, at least, putting them into the hands
of our sheriff. [Footnote: During the period of anarchy, change, and discord, in this distracted
town, each of the belligerent parties had their sheriff, or constable, and other town officers,
and would yield obedience to the officers of their opponents only on compulsion, though the
officers of the majority were not generally resisted, except, perhaps, in matters purely political.]
And either of these ways would be the means, we thought, of saving your property, and, at the
same time, be a plaguy sight more lawful than any authority they have for selling them. But
now there's no saying how it will go. I expect hot work there to-morrow; and that minds me
to ask if you heard whether help from the towns up the river is coming down to join us on the
occasion?"

"Yes, Tom Dunning came down with me, and he informed me that several others were on the way."

"Good. Tom himself, in matter of managing, will be almost a match for Peters, whether ghost
or no ghost. But where is he?"

"He stopped back at the Liberty Pole tavern."

"All happens right, then. I am bound there myself. We are going to hold a little meeting at
the Pole, after folks are to bed, to make up our plans and arrangements for to-morrow. You
can't go, I suppose."

"No, I must not think of it."

"But you will be at town meeting to-morrow?"

"Quite uncertain. In the first place, I ought not to leave my sick mother; and in the next,
my feelings are in such a state of bitterness, that I dare hardly trust myself in such a scene,
lest I should do that which would cost me months of painful regret. No, Piper, in mercy to
a desperate man, let me keep away. But here is Bart to go, if he choose, both to-night and
tomorrow."

"Bart is agreeable to that, if Harry and mistress don't want him," said the person just named,
rousing up from the long-silent reverie in which he had been sitting before the fire apparently
inattentive to the conversation of the others, which had been carried on in a low tone, at
the opposite side of the room. "So here goes for the Pole to-night, and meeting to-morrow,"
he added, taking down his gun from the pegs on which it was suspended, near the ceiling above,

"What do you want to do with that, Bart?" asked Woodburn.

"I want it for lining to my coat," replied Bart. "If our coats had all been lined in that fashion,
the first night there, at Westminster, we needn't have had to attend French's funeral, nor
you been troubled about the papers they got out when you was in jail."

"Bravo, Bart. You see that my coat is not wanting of that kind of lining, don't you?" said
Piper, throwing open his greatcoat and displaying a rifle, as the two now left the house together,
on their way to the rendezvous of the liberty party.

CHAPTER X.

  "Agreed in nothing, but t' abolish,
   Subvert, extirpate, and demolish."

"Hurrah for Vermont! hurrah for the new state of Vermont! The victory is won, and the town
is redeemed! hurrah! hurrah!"

Such were the sounds that rose and rung among the rafters of the crowded old log Town House
of Guilford, as, for the first time for several years, a New Statesman and whig moderator was
declared elected by a majority of the suffrages of the freemen. The next moment, the door was
seen vomiting forth its throng of excited victors, who, as they reached the open air, joined
the crowd eagerly awaiting the result at the entrance, and, with them, renewed and reiterated
the glad shout, till the distant hills responded in loud echoes to the roar of the stentorian
voices of the triumphant party.

After a fortnight's active exertions on the part of each of the opposing parties, in mustering
and drilling their respective forces, preparatory to the approaching contest, in which both
were equally confident of victory, though too sensible of the danger of losing it to remit
any effort, the voters had assembled at one o'clock in the afternoon. After spending several
hours in a disorderly and wrangling debate, in relation to the qualification of voters, which
at last resulted in rejecting the test required by the charter,--that of being a freeholder,-and
in permitting every resident to vote, the ballots had been taken for moderator, or chairman
of the meeting, when, as much to the dismay of the tories as the joy of their opponents, it
was found that victory, in a majority of three, had declared for the latter, who thereupon
testified their exultation in the uproarious manner we have described.

After a while, the noise and tumult within the house was suddenly hushed, and the clear, deliberate
tones of some new speaker addressing the assembly, became audible to those without the building;
while the attent and eager looks of those who stood listening in the crowded pass-way, plainly
evinced that some important and exciting subject had been introduced. At length the voice ceased,
and a new commotion ensued within.

"What new movement is that? what is going on in there now, Piper?" asked one standing near
the door, as one young man came elbowing his way out of the house.

"Why, they are on Colonel Carpenter's resolution. Haven't none of you here been in there to
hear it?" said Piper, turning to the querist and other political associates, standing near by.

"No; what is it about?" inquired several of the latter, with interest.

"The York Rule," answered Piper, with an animated air. "The colonel offered a resolve that
we shake off the York government now, henceforth and forever. And this he backed with a speech
which would have done you good to hear. He went into them, I tell you, like a thousand of brick;
and not a single tory tongue of 'em all dare wag in trying to answer it. They are now beginning
to vote on the resolution, which, if carried, the colonel intends to follow up by another,
cutting up all British authority root and branch."

At this moment, they were joined by Tom Dunning, who came hurrying out of the house, and, taking
Piper aside, said,--

"Do you ditter understand the plan of what's going on there, Piper, and the importance to you
here, in Guilford, of carrying it?"

"Not fully, perhaps," answered Piper. "I didn't have a chance to talk with Carpenter and the
other committee before this move was made, and don't understand why they did not urge on the
election of the other town officers, as usual, after making a moderator, instead of getting
up these resolutions."

"Der well, this is it; they are afraid to ditter try any of the town officers on so slim a
majority, lest the tory candidates should have got some of our voters under their thumbs, by
way of debts or other obligations, which they will der make use of to get their votes for them
personally, but won't have 'em pledged for this."

"That is well thought of," responded Piper. "They have indeed got the screws on some I know
of, and would so threaten 'em with prosecutions, that I'm fearful they would get 'em, sure
enough. But what's the prospect about the resolutions?"

"Well, the colonel thinks, after what has ditter taken place at Westminster, that we can carry
them; and if we can, it will pretty effectually tie 'em up, even if they got their officers.
But we der don't mean to let 'em. For the plan is, that as soon as we've ditter carried the
resolves, to dissolve the meeting without making any town officers at all, which we think can
be carried by the same voters, and which if we can ditter do it, with the resolves, will kill
Fitch and his papers as dead as a ditter dum smelt, and so save the property of Harry, and
that of all others in the same der situation."

"Good!" exclaimed Piper, with animation; "I see through the move now; and we'll go at 'em,
and whip 'em out on it; and then if Fitch don't give up the cattle, we'll make him, by the
course we thought of taking, last night, in case we failed electing our officers to-day, or
of getting any vote on Harry's affair."

"Yes; but we must be ditter lively in getting in the voters. You and Bart go in and vote; and
I will beat about the bush, here, for more help, before I go in; for as they have just admitted
some to vote on a twenty hours' residence,--as I can ditter swear they did,--I intend to vote
myself, this time, and have all those from my way der do the same," said the hunter, bustling
off to muster his forces.

Just as Dunning, who had collected a band of voters, without much regard to their qualifications,
was pushing into the house at the head of his recruits, an outcry was raised within; and, the
next moment, Bart Burt was seen hastily emerging from the crowd, followed by the kicks and
cudgel-blows of the tories, through whom he had been compelled, to save himself from a rougher
handling, to run the gauntlet to the door.

"What, in the name of der Tophet, is the meaning of that ditter treatment, ye shameless lubbers?"
sternly demanded the hunter, shaking his stout beech cane over the heads of the fore most of
his opponents.

"He deserves it! He is an impostor! He tried to get in his vote when he aint over eighteen
years old!" shouted several tory voices in reply.

"They let me vote last time without a word," said Bart, facing round upon his foes, with a
grin of spite and pain; "and so they did John Stubbs and Jo Snelling, then and now too; and
they aint a day older than I be."

"Then we will der have you in, and vote too, if the ditter divil stands at the door!" fiercely
exclaimed the hunter.

"Let them prove he aint one and twenty," said one of the same party. "He wasn't born in these
parts, nor does he know himself, I understand, where he was born, or how old he is; and until
they can prove him under age, I motion, blow high or blow low, that we make them receive his vote."

"Aye, he shall vote! he shall vote!" shouted a dozen others. "They have admitted others under
age, and they shall him, whether or no! Let them live up to their own rules! Sauce for goose
is sauce for gander, the world over; they shall take him, they shall take him!"

A hasty consultation was now held, and a plan of operations for compelling the opposite party
to admit Bart to the polls was soon digested. And, in pursuance of this plan, Bart, who was
short and light of weight, was mounted astride the brawny shoulders of Dunning, while Piper,
with his burly frame, was placed in front, with a stiff cudgel in hand, to act as the battering-ram
or entering wedge to the crowd of tories, who had closed up the way with their bodies, obviously
to prevent Bart, or any other whig, indeed, from again entering till the ballot-box was turned.
Eight or ten stout, resolute young men were then selected and formed in column to bring up
the rear, and give such an impetus to those before them as to force them forward in spite of
all opposing obstacles, till they reached the voters' stand in the house.

"Ditter ready, boys?" now cried Dunning, firmly grasping Bart's legs, and glancing over his
shoulders to his lusty little band of backers. "All ready there, behind, boys? Then go ahead,
as if ditter Belzebub kicked ye an end!"

At the word, Piper, gathering himself up like a ram for a butting match, made a lunge head
foremost into the recoiling ranks of the tories, and, borne irresistibly forward by the force
of the rushing phalanx behind, overthrew, prostrated, and shoved aside, all before him, till
the whole column gained the interior, and came to a halt before the ballot-box.

"I protest against that fellow's voting!" exclaimed Peters, approaching the stand as Bart,
from his lofty seat on Dunning's shoulders, was about to put in his vote, which was a simple
yea written on a slip of paper, and handed up to him by some one stationed near the box to
furnish the unsupplied. "I protest against such a glaring outrage! He is under age, and was
very properly driven from the house."

"Prove it! prove it!" shouted several of Bart's friends.

"You can't do it," cried another, "and if you could, two of your party, who are under age,
have voted already; 'tis a fact; deny it if you can!"

"In with it, Bart!" said Dunning, bending down to give the other a chance.

"Yes, in with it; for he shall vote!" responded the rest.

"He shall not vote!" vociferated Peters; "and if he attempts to do it; I'll blow his brains
out!" he added, pulling out and levelling a pistol. Quick as thought, Bart threw open his over-coat,
and, drawing from beneath it the light short gun there concealed, cocked, and brought it to
his shoulder; while the threatening weapon of his foe was seen flying to a distant part of
the room, from a sudden blow of Piper's cudgel, and its disarmed and nonplused owner slinking
away out of the range of the suspicious-looking barrel still kept aimed at his head.

Amidst the loud cries of order, and the heated vociferations of both parties, now raised to
condemn or defend the transaction, through the house, Bart, Dunning, and others of their company,
who had not voted, now hastily deposited their votes, and retired unmolested.

Although the portion of the revolutionary party, whose movements we have been more particularly
describing, acting on the supposed and probably actual frauds of their opponents, had thus
secured Bart's vote, and the votes of two or three others, perhaps equally illegal, yet the
event soon showed that their policy in so doing was a mistaken one, and calculated to defeat
the very object they intended to promote; for, as will always be the result where one party
attempts to adopt the wrongful measures of their opponents, the tories, now armed with the
fact that they had detected the other party in a wrong more glaring, because more public, than
any they had perpetrated, made use of the advantage with such effect as to bring over several,
intending to support the resolutions, to change their intention, and go against them. And,
in addition to this, by way of retaliating, and of making good at least all the ground lost
by the questionable votes forced upon them, they brought forward every minor they could find
approximating the size of a man, and boldly demanded their admittance to the polls. An opposition
was, indeed, attempted to a measure so manifestly illegal, by the leaders of the other party;
but they had become too much disarmed by the acts of their own partisans to produce any sensible
effect; and their voices were soon drowned by the clamors of the tories, who now admitted the
boys by acclamation. This, as will be anticipated, decided the contest. On counting the votes,
the resolution was found to have been rejected by more than a dozen majority-a victory which
the tories failed not to announce by shouts of exultation, which out-thundered those of their
opponents in their late short-lived triumph. The friends of freedom, being thus caught in their
own trap, or, at least, worsted by the indiscretion of their own friends, now pretty much yielded
the contest: while the victorious Yorkers and tories had everything in their own way, electing
their town officers, passing denunciatory and royal resolutions, and continuing their discussions
unopposed till it was nearly dark, when the meeting broke up in noisy confusion.

"Oyez! Oyez! Oyez!" was now heard crying the well-known voice of Constable Fitch, as he mounted
a stump in the yard; while near by stood a gang of his confederates, hedging in Woodburn's
cow and oxen, which the former had found the means to have on the spot, in readiness for the
sale, the moment the assembly broke up. "Oyez! A cow and oxen, taken on execution, now about
to be sold to the highest bidder, gentlemen. We will take the oxen first; as fine a yoke as
ever drew plough Who will give us the first bid? Shan't dwell three minutes. Who bids, I say?
One pound bid, gentlemen; one pound ten! one pound ten! and on Mr. Peters. Who bids higher?"

But, as rapid as had been the constable's movements, he did not, as he intended, take the friends
of Woodburn by surprise. They had withdrawn from the meeting a short time before it dissolved,
and met for consultation in the rear of the house, where, having arranged their plan of operations,
they stood awaiting for the proper time to carry it into execution.

"There!" exclaimed Dunning, as the constable began to cry the sale in the manner we have just
described--"there, that is ditter Fitch; he is at it! All ready, boys? You, Piper and Bart,
with your vials of oil of vitriol in your sleeves, ready to uncork on to their ditter tails?"

"Ay, ay!"

"And your ditter snuff to throw into their eyes?"

"Yes, that, too."

"And your guns ditter cocked, and safe under your coats you that are to fire?"

"Ay, all right and ready--lead on!"

"Der well, but remember we ditter separate here, so as to come up on different sides of the
crowd; and mind, don't let off your guns till the creatures begin to ditter grow uneasy and
der snort and blow."

While Fitch was repeating the bids he had received for the oxen, and was about to knock them
off to the highest bidder, which still chanced to be Peters, he was suddenly told to hold on,
by several persons who had just at that moment made their appearance in different parts of
the crowd, and who expressed their wish to bid, as soon as they could get up to examine the
cattle. Owing to the duskiness, the faces of the new comers did not seem to be recognized by
the tories, who unsuspectingly opened and admitted them to the stand. Quickly availing themselves
of the opportunity, the former, among the foremost of whom were Piper and Bart, now crowded
eagerly round the cattle, and, after rapidly passing their hands over the cow and each of the
oxen a moment, and then stepping back, began to banter and bid. Not much time, however, was
allowed them to do either; for the cattle, all at once, became unaccountably restless, at first
backing and wheeling about in their confined space, and then wildly tossing up their heads,
snuffing, and assuming the startled and furious appearance generally exhibited by this class
of animals when about to make a desperate effort to break away.

At this critical juncture, the fierce flashes and stunning reports of a half dozen muskets
burst over the heads of the startled and astonished company from various points on the outer
edge of the crowd; and the next instant the already maddened cattle, with loud snorts, leaping
over or trampling down all in their way, broke through the living hedge of tories around them,
and bounded off, with their tails thrown aloft, and bellowing in wild affright, in different
directions, towards the woods, leaving the amazed and broken crowd jostling and pitching about
with exclamations of surprise, groans of pain, volleys of oaths, and shouts of laughter, all
mingled in Babel-like confusion.

"'Tis all the work of the cursed rebels!" exclaimed Peters, the first to rally and comprehend
the affair. "Fitch!" he added, pointing after the runaway cattle, "where the devil are your
wits, that you don't order a pursuit?"

"Yes, pursue and bring 'em back, instantly!" screamed the constable, awaking from the stupor
and confusion of ideas into which he seemed to have been thrown by the strange and unexpected
occurrence. "Yes,'tis an unlawful rescue--it's a conspiracy! bring back the cattle! seize the
offenders, every one of 'em! in the king's name I command ye."

Obedient to the call, the obsequious tories instantly rallied for the pursuit, and, breaking
off into three distinct bands, eagerly set forward in the different directions taken by the
fugitive cattle, then just disappearing over the distant swells, or in the borders of the woods.
Dunning, Piper and Bart, who, in the mean while, had, unknown and unsuspected in the darkness
and confusion, stood in the throng, keenly watching the result of their plan, no sooner heard
the expected order of pursuit given, than, separating, like their opponents, and each joining
a different band of the pursuers, they sprang in before the rest, and, by their superior alacrity
and speed, soon succeeded in taking the lead and finally in completely distancing all others
in the promiscuous chase. The tories, now soon wholly losing sight of their fleet and, as they
still supposed, trusty guides in the pursuit, became, in a short time, confused and at fault
respecting the courses to be taken; and, after hallooing and running about the woods and pastures
at random, nearly an hour, without discovering any traces either of the lost cattle or the
missing pursuers, at length came straggling back to the Town House, and, by way of saving their
own credit, reported to Fitch, Peters, and the small party remaining there, that their swiftest
runners were last seen nearly up with the cattle, and would soon be in with them, or that the
creatures had been headed, and were on their way back, in another direction. On this, the company
waited another hour; when, neither the cattle nor the expected pursuers appearing, they began
to suspect something amiss; and the inquiries and investigations then put afoot soon resulted
in the mortifying conviction, that the cattle had been overtaken and driven off by the same
persons who previously had caused them to break away. Prompted by the enraged Peters, Fitch
then offered a reward for the recovery of the cattle and the detection of those who had abducted
them; when the company separated, to resume the search the next day. But although this was
done, and the country scoured in every direction for several days, yet the search proved wholly
fruitless. Not one of the cattle was to be found. Nor were the actors in the transaction, with
any certainty, identified, though the absence of Piper and Bart, for some days after the event,
caused them to be suspected and marked for punishment, when they should again appear abroad.

CHAPTER XI.

Perhaps the nearest and dearest, as well as the most interesting tie of consanguity, is that
existing between mother and son. Who has not witnessed the unfailing and unconquerable strength
of a mother's love for the son of her heart and her vows, cleaving to its object through prosperity
and through adversity, through honor and through shame, with a constancy which never wavers?

While the scenes of disorder and tumult we last described, and the similar ones that followed,
were being enacted among the belligerent parties of this misgoverned town, the dutiful and
sorrowing Woodburn was continuing his attendance on his sick mother, from whose bedside no
call of business or of pleasure was suffered for a single hour to lure him. And well might
he have done so, aside even from the dictates of filial duty; for she was a woman not only
of unaffected piety, but of education and intellect; and to her he had been mainly indebted
for all that was good and elevated in his character. She had emigrated with her husband to
this town, at an early period of its settlement from the vicinity of Boston, where the latter
had become so much straitened in his pecuniary circumstances, in consequence of being surety
for an improvident and luckless brother, that he was induced, with the hope of bettering his
fortunes, to gather up the poor remnant of his property, and, with it, remove to the New Hampshire
Grant's, at that time the Eldorado most in vogue among those seeking new countries. Here, having
purchased one of the best tracts of land in the place, he commenced the slow and laborious
process of clearing up a new farm. And this Herculean task, which may well be considered the
work of a man's life, he had, after years of incessant toil and privation, nearly succeeded
in accomplishing, and begun to catch glimpses of easier and brighter days; when he was taken
away by disease, leaving his property to his wife and son, an only child, then drawing towards
manhood. And nobly had that son discharged the double duty which now devolved upon him,--that
of becoming the stay and comforter of his widowed mother, and the sole manager of the farm,
their only dependence. For, while discharging his filial duties in such a manner as to gain
him the reputation of being a pattern of a son, he not only kept good, but, by his industry
and enterprise, even improved, the property to which he had thus succeeded. And he was fast
surmounting the difficulties of his situation, and making hopeful advances towards a competence,
when, in an evil hour, his flourishing little establishment attracted the coveting eye of the
unconscionable Peters, who, owning an adjoining farm, which would be rendered much more salable
by being united with Woodburn's, undertook, at first, to wheedle the young man into a sale,
or rather an exchange of his valuable farm for another, or wild lands, at false valuations
and of doubtful titles. But, finding himself wholly mistaken in the character of the person
whom he thus endeavored to overreach, and consequently failing in his attempt, he next began
to think of the quibbles of the law, as the means of accomplishing his purpose. And having
discovered some slight irregularity in Woodburn's deed, to begin upon, he then resorted to
a trick quite fashionable among the corrupt speculators of those unsettled times--that of purchasing
from some unprincipled person, ready, for a small sum, to enter into the fraud, a deed of prior
date to that of the one to be defeated, with descriptions of premises and references to suit
the purchaser the worthless assumed owner neither knowing nor caring what his deed might convey.
Having secretly procured a prior deed of Woodburn's farm in this manner, Peters could see but
one obstacle now in the way of his success, which was the town records, embracing that of Woodburn's
deed. How was this to be disposed of? A bold measure, which could be executed by his minions
under political pretences, occurred to him; and the result was, that part of the town record
soon disappeared. Peters then commenced an action against Woodburn, to eject him from his farm,
the course and consequences of which are already known to the reader.

Spring had now come; but its bland and balmy breath brought no relief to the suffering widow.
From the hour she had been compelled to take to her bed, her disease, though sometimes lulled,
or raging less fiercely than at other times, had never for a moment loosened its tenacious
grasp. And although her cheerful words, and meek, uncomplaining looks, had often misled her
anxious son, or, at least, prevented him from despairing of her recovery, yet the dry, parched,
red tongue, the daily return of the bright hectic spot, and the tense, hurrying and unvarying
beat of the strained pulses, might have told him how certainly and rapidly the work of destruction
was going on at the citadel of life, and better prepared him for the agonizing scene which
was now to follow.

It was a calm and pleasant evening towards the close of April, and the low descending sun was
shedding the mellow light of his parting beams over the joyful face of reanimating nature.
The invalid, during all the fore part of the day, had suffered greatly from pain--that general
and undefinable distress which is so frequently found to be the precursor of approaching dissolution.
To this had succeeded a sort of lethargic sleep, from which it was not easy to arouse her,
so that she could be made to take any notice of what was passing around her. But now she awoke,
clear and collected; and, glancing round the room, with a sort of pensive animation, met and
answered the inquiring and solicitous look of her son with an affectionate smile. Presently
her wandering eye rested on some objects of the landscape, glimpses of which she had caught
through one of the small patched windows of the room, and she faintly observed,--

"How pleasant it appears without! Harry," she continued after a thoughtful pause, "could you
take out that window before me? I feel a desire to look out once more on the green earth and
breathe the sweet air of spring."

"Yes, mother," said the other, approaching the bed, with a surprised and hesitating air; "yes,
I could easily do it, I presume; but would it be quite safe for you to be exposed to the evening
air?"

"Yes, Harry; the time for the exercise of such cares is gone by. You need fear no more for
me, now, my son," she replied in accents of tender sadness.

The son then, with a doubtful and troubled look, proceeded in silence to comply with the unexpected
request; after which, he gently raised the head of the invalid, who, thereupon, gazed long
and thoughtfully on the variegated landscape, which lay spread out in tranquil beauty beneath
her dimly-kindling eye.

"How beautiful!" she at length feebly exclaimed, in a tone of melancholy rapture--"beautiful
of itself, but more beautiful as the type of man's destiny after his body has mingled with
the dust. The scene we here behold, my son, exhibits the resurrection of nature. In summer
the foliage and blossom expands, in autumn the fruit is perfected, and in winter the visible
part falls back to earth and perishes, leaving the hidden seed or germ to spring forth again
into another life. So it has been, so it will be, with me. I have had my brief summer of life,
my still briefer autumn, and now my winter of death is at hand, from which I trust to come
forth into the more glorious spring of life eternal."

"Do not talk thus, mother," responded the son, greatly moved--"do not talk thus: you distress
me. I trust you may yet recover. You certainly look brighter this evening; and I hope another
day will find you still better."

"No, Harry, not better, as you mean. If I appear brighter, it is but the brightness of the
last flashing up of the expiring taper. I feel that my time is come, and thanks to Him who
has prepared my heart to hail the event as a relief and a blessing."

"O, my mother, my mother, how can I part with you?"

"My longer sojourn here, my son, would be of little benefit to others--even to you: my blessing
is worth more than would be my further abiding: come and receive it."

The weeping son then knelt down at the bedside, and the mother laying her hand on his head,
pronounced her blessing and a brief prayer for his earthly prosperity and eternal happiness.

For several minutes, the son, overcome by his emotions, remained kneeling, with his head, on
which still languidly rested the emaciated hand of his dying mother, bowed upon the bed-clothes,
while the latter, sinking back exhausted on her pillow, closed her eyes, and seemed to be silently
communing with herself. She soon, however, aroused herself, and observed,--

"My work is not yet quite done. I have a little more to say before the scene closes."

"Say on, mother," said the other, making an effort to calm himself, as he now rose, and, taking
a seat near, wistfully rivetted his gaze on her pallid face. "If you are, indeed, about to
leave me forever, withhold nothing you feel inclined to communicate; for your dying counsels,
my dear parent, will be received with pleasure and gratitude, and treasured up in heart and
memory as the last, best lesson of one to whom I am under such countless obligations."

"You have ever acted the part of a dutiful son towards me, Harry; and that is always a mother's
best reward for her care and affection for her offspring. And I know not that I have aught
now to say to you, by way of counsel for your future guidance, being willing to leave you to
practise upon the principles I have endeavored to inculcate, and be to others what you have
been to me. But it was not of that I intended to speak. I was about to name some facts connected
with our early reverses, which, it being always unpleasant to recur to those scenes of trial,
I think I have never told you, but which, I thought, it might, perhaps, some day avail you
something to know. You have heard us casually speak, I presume, of your uncle Charles Woodburn?"

"I have, mother."

"And you may also be aware that, through his misconduct, we were suddenly reduced from the
easy competence we once enjoyed to poverty and distress."

"I have so understood it, but never knew what kind of misconduct it was that led to our misfortunes."

"It was imprudence in speculations, and profligacy in living, and not dishonesty, or any intentional
wrong to us, as I ever believed; though your father, in his desperation when the blow came,
would listen to no extenuation, but drove him from his presence with bitter reproaches and
accusations. But your uncle, before leaving the country, as he soon after did, sought an interview
with me; and, after deploring the misfortunes he had brought on my family as well as himself,
solemnly pledged himself that he would, some day or other, more than compensate me or mine
for all the losses he had occasioned us. And this is the circumstance I wished to tell you;
for, though we never received any certain information of him, yet something tells me he still
is alive, and has the means and disposition to fulfil his promise to you whenever you may find
him, and he recognizes you as the representative of his brother's family, of whose location
here he probably was never apprised. I would suggest to you therefore, the expediency of trying
to trace him out, and, if you succeed in doing so, make yourself and your situation known to
him; and, without preferring any claim, leave the result with Providence."

"Your suggestion, mother, shall not pass from me unheeded, nor shall I fail, in due time, to
act upon it; but, at present, I know not if the last tie that binds me to this place should
be severed--I know not but our down-trodden country may have the first claim on my services.
Ever since the startling news of the massacre of Lexington reached us, a sense of the duty
of devoting myself to her defence has pressed heavily and constantly on my mind. And but for
the stronger claim which nature and my own feelings have given you, in your situation, to my
presence and attention, I might, before this, have been with my shouldered musket on my way
to the scene of action. But even in the event of your death, I should hesitate to obey the
call if I knew I must do it without your sanction."

"I thank you, my son, for your affectionate deference; but you shall not go without my sanction.
Having conjectured what might be your feelings at this dark hour of our country's peril, I
was about to speak to you on the subject. Yes, Harry, if you think duty calls you to the field,
in defence of a cause so just and righteous as ours, go. You will be under the care of the
same Providence there as elsewhere. Go, and with a dying mother's blessing, and a prayer of
faith for your safety and success, do battle manfully for the Heaven-favored side, till the
oppressor be cast down, and the oppressed go free."

With a heart swelling with conflicting emotions, the young man looked up to reply, when his
words were arrested on his lips, by the evident change that the countenance of the other had
suddenly undergone. The unnatural animation, which she had exhibited during the conversation,
had faded away. She lay listless and exhausted, with her eyes nearly closed, and her lips slightly
moving in secret prayer.

"And now, Lord, what wait I for?" she at length audibly uttered. "But I am not to wait," she
continued, in a firmer tone after a short pause. "The final moment is at hand! Farewell earth!
farewell, my son! May Heaven's blessings rest on you--on all, and be the offences of all forgiven.
Ah! the light of day is fading; but O, that brighter light which opens those angel forms, with
smiling faces, which beckon me away! Ready! I come!--I come!"

And thus,--

  "--blessing and blest,
   In death she went smiling away
   To the heavenly bosom of rest."

CHAPTER XII.

  "Whene'er your case can be no worse,
   The desperate is the wiser course."

Late in the afternoon, several days subsequent to the melancholy event described in the preceding
chapter, a mingled company, of some dozens of persons, including several town officials, were
seen, assembling at the Tory Tavern, in Guilford; the object of which appearances seemed to
indicate to be the holding of a magistrates' court, to try an offender who had that morning
been arrested, and who now, in custody of Constable Fitch, was demurely sitting on a rude bench
under an open window of the room in which the trial was to be had, and in which the two justices
composing the court had already seated themselves at a table, in readiness, on their part,
to commence proceedings. That offender was no other than our humble friend, Barty Burt, who
had lucklessly fallen into one of the snares which had been set for him and his suspected companions,
round the country, in consequence of the part they had acted in spiriting away, in so strange
a manner, Woodburn's cattle, when about to be sold on town meeting day. He and Piper, during
the night following that affair, after meeting Dunning at an appointed place, and giving him
charge of the cattle, which had been successfully pursued and there collected, to be driven
out of that part of the country by the hunter, left town in different directions, to avoid
the arrest they anticipated, in case they remained; Piper going down the river in quest of
some temporary employment till the storm blew over, and Bart setting off on a fishing excursion
to Marlboro' Pond, situated in a then nearly unsettled section, about ten miles to the north.
Here Bart had pursued his sport unmolested, many days, occasionally going out to Brattleborough
to sell his fish and buy provisions, and considering himself in this secluded situation perfectly
safe from any search which might be made for him by the officers of Guilford. But the reward
offered by the constable for the apprehension of the offenders, who had been soon pretty well
identified, had put all the tories in the town and vicinity on the watch and the result was,
that Bart had been seen, traced to his retreat, seized and brought back for trial.

Although Bart's general demeanor seemed to show a perfect indifference to the fate that now
threatened him, yet the quick keen glances with which, under that show of indifference, he
noted every movement of those into whose power he had fallen and the restlesness he exhibited
when their eyes were not upon him, gave token of no little inward perturbation. And it was
not without reason that his apprehensions were excited; he knew the character and disposition
of the two tory justices whom he saw taking their seats to try him, and he rightly judged that
he need not expect either mercy or justice at their hands. He had also detected one of the
constable's minions, who had been despatched to the woods for the purpose, stealing slyly round
into the horse-shed, on his return, with a half dozen formidable looking green beech rods;
and he was at no loss to decide for whose back they were intended, or by whose ruthless hand
they were to be applied.

"You can't go that, Bart," he mentally exclaimed. "You must get away; so now put your best
contrivances in motion, for I tell you it won't do for you to think of standing that pickle."

And as hopeless as, to all appearance, was any attempt to escape his captors, who stood round
him with loaded pistols in their hands, Bart yet confidently counted on being able, in some
way or other, to slip through their fingers, and avoid the fearful punishment which he knew
was in store for him, if he remained many hours longer in their hands. To effect this, he looked
for no aid from others; for experience had taught him the value of self-reliance. The whole
life of this singular being, indeed, had been one which was peculiarly calculated to throw
him on his own resources, sharpen his wits, and render him fertile in expedients. He had been
a foundling, and knew no more of his parentage than a young ostrich, that springs from the
deserted egg in the sand. He was left, when an infant, at the door of a poor mechanic, in Boston,
by the name of Burt, and by him transferred to the almshouse, where he was called after the
name of his finder, with the pet name of Barty, given him by his nurse. Here he was kept till
he was four or five years old, when he was given to the Shakers, from whom he ran away at ten
or twelve. From that time, the poor friendless boy became a wanderer through the interior country,
generally remaining but a few months in a place, being driven from each successive home by
misusage, or for want of profitable work for him to do, or, what was still oftener the case,
perhaps, for playing off some trick to avenge the fancied or real insult he had received, till,
after having been kicked about the world like a foot-ball, cheated, abused cowed in feeling,
and become, in consequence, abject, uncouth and singular in manner and appearance, he at length
reached the situation in the family of the haughty loyalist where we found him.

While Bart was thus uneasily revolving the matter of his present concern in his mind, and beginning
to cast about him for some means of escape, the constable was called aside by those who had
undertaken to manage the prosecution, for the purpose of holding with them a consultation,
the purport of which, though carried on in a low tone, and at some distance, was soon gathered
by the quick and practised ears of the prisoner. It appeared that the trial was being delayed
in consequence of the absence of Peters, who was an important witness, and who unaccountably
failed to make his appearance. And it being feared that he might have been waylaid, and detained
on the road, by some band of the other party, to prevent him from testifying, as all knew he
was anxious to do, it was settled that Fitch should start immediately in search of him to the
house which he usually made his temporary quarters in another part of the town. Accordingly
the constable, after putting the prisoner in charge of two stout fellows who were in his interest,
with orders to guard him closely, and shoot him down the instant he should attempt to escape,
set forth on his mission after Peters. Bart's countenance brightened when he saw the savage
officer depart, for he believed the absence of the latter would greatly increase his chances
of escape; and in spite of all the threats he had received of being shot, he resolved to improve
that absence in making the attempt, though the manner of doing so yet remained to be decided,
by the circumstances which might occur.

In the mean time a trotting-match had been got up in the road in front of the tavern, by a
small party who had been boasting of the speed and other qualities of their horses; and it
being now understood that the trial was to be delayed till the constable's return, the whole
company left the house, and went out to the road to witness the performance. Bart's keepers
not being able, where they stood, to see and hear what was going on very distinctly, and being
equally desirous with the rest to get a favorable stand for that purpose, after renewing the
threat of shooting him, if lie attempted to run away, took him along with them, and entered
the line of spectators extended along the road. After a few trials among those who began the
contest, several new competitors led on their horses and entered the lists. By this time most
of the company began to take a lively interest in the performance, taking sides, and betting
on the success of the different horses now put into the contest. The prisoner having, by this
time, through dint of persevering in good humor and sociability, in return for the abusive
epithets, by which all his attempts to converse were, for a while, received, succeeded, in
a great measure, in disarming his keepers of the stern reserve and jealous distrust they at
first exhibited towards him, he was soon permitted to talk freely, and offer, unrebuked, his
opinions of the success of the various horses about to make a trial, which his previous observation
and acquaintance with many of them, made during his residence in town the preceding year, enabled
him to do with considerable sagacity. And his predictions being luckily fulfilled in several
instances, and especially in one in which his most rigid keeper had been saved from losing,
in a bet, which would have been made but for his timely cautions, Bart at length found himself
on such a footing of confidence and good will with those whom he wished to conciliate, that
he thought it would now do to commence operations for himself.

"I don't think much of such trotting, myself," said Bart, carelessly, as one of the contests
afoot had just terminated; "but there is one animal I notice here to-day, I should like to bet on."

"What horse is that?" asked the keeper above designated,

"That dapple gray mare hitched over there in the corner of the cow-yard yonder," replied Bart,
pointing to a small, long tailed pony, whose shabby coat of shedding and neglected hair greatly
disguised the remarkable make of her limbs and other indications of strength and activity.

"That creature!" exclaimed the other, contemptuously; "why she aint bigger than a good-sized
sheep. You may bet if you want to, and lose; for there's not a horse on the ground but would
beat her."

"Well, for all that, Mr. Sturges," responded Bart, banteringly, "I'll not take back what I've
said about the nag. And to prove my earnest, I'll make you an offer; I'll bet my gun, which
you saw me hand the landlord for safe keeping when they brought me in--I'll bet my gun against
your hat, I'll take that creature and out-trot you, with any hoss you may choose to bring on."

"Done!" exclaimed Sturges; "but you are contriving this up for a chance to get away, you scamp."

"What should I want to get away for?" I haint done nothin: and there's a witness here that
will swear to a thing or two for me, when the trial comes on, guess you'll find; besides, aint
you young to ride by my side, with a loaded pistol in your hand?"

"Yes, and that aint all; I'll put a bullet through you the instant you make the least move
to be off."

"I'm agreed to that."

"Well, but will they let you take the colt for the march?"

"Guess so; I'll venture to take her. The boy that rode her here has cleared out down to the
brook a fishing; but I know him, and think he wouldn't object."

"Who owns the colt?"

"Old Turner did, last year, when I lived with him; and the boy is from that way, and borrowed
her, likely."

"Then you have rode her, have you?" asked Sturges, doubtfully.

"Never rid her with any other boss, but know she can trot faster than any thing you can find
here; so you may as well back out at once," answered Bart, with apparent indifference.

"Not by a jug-full, sir; but I must look me up a horse, and fix matters a little first; and
then, if it is thought safe for me to trust you to ride, I'll go it," returned the other, with
some hesitation.

Sturges then stepped aside with the other keeper, and, after consulting with him a few moments,
went forward and announced to the company the bet offered by the prisoner, and his own intention
of accepting it, and indulging the fellow in a trial, if they thought best, and would assist
in measures to prevent the possibility of his escape. The proposal was received with shouts
of laughter by the tories; and eager for the fun they expected to see in so queer a contest,
they agreed to be answerable for the prisoner's safety, and urged on the performance.

The two keepers, now calling in others to take charge of the prisoner, while they made their
preparations, proceeded to arrange the company on both sides of the road, placing men at short
intervals along the whole line of the course, commencing back about two hundred yards south
of the tavern, and extending to the sign-post, which, standing on the edge of the beaten path
in front of the house, had been agreed on as the goal. And not satisfied with this precaution,
they then procured four long, heavy, spruce poles, and, extending them from fence to fence
across the enclosed road leading from the tavern yard northward, formed a barricade five or
six feet high, which, with the strong, high fences on each side of the whole course, except
at the starting-point, where no danger was apprehended, seemed to cut off the prisoner, even
without being guarded, from all possible chance to escape on horseback, as it was most feared
he would do, after being allowed control of the reins.

"There, Bixby!" exclaimed Sturges, exultingly turning to his fellow-keeper, as they completed
the barricade across the road beyond the goal--"there! I would defy the devil to jump over
this barrier, or any of the fences on the way, as to that matter. So the little rebel will
hardly escape us by running his horse from the ground, I fancy. But we must look out that he
don't jump off at the end of the race, or before, and cut into the fields. You may therefore
station yourself somewhere between this and the sign-post; and if he attempts to leap from
his horse and run, as we fetch up here, shoot him down as you would a dog, and charge the blame
to me or Fitch; either of us will bear it."

Having thus arranged every thing to his satisfaction, Sturges, ordering the pony we have described,
and the horse he had selected for himself, to be brought on, then took charge of his prisoner
and rival, and conducted him, with great show of mock dignity, and amidst a noisy and jeering
troop of attendants, to the ground marked off for the place of starting, and now designated
by the close line of men that had been stationed across the road to guard against the prisoner's
escape in that direction. Bart, in the mean time, seemed perfectly indifferent to all these
precautions of the tories, as well as the gibes and laughter which constantly greeted him on
the way, and, on reaching the prescribed limit, quietly dropped down on the grass among the
company, and awaited the coming of the horses with the greatest unconcern. The latter soon
made their appearance on the ground, and were immediately led up and presented to their respective
riders.

"Lightfoot!" exclaimed Bart, springing up to receive his chosen pony; "do you know me, Lightfoot?"

The animal instantly pricked up her ears, and responded by a sort of low, chuckling whinny,
by rubbing her nose against his arm, and by other demonstrations of recognition and pleasure,
which plainly showed the two to have been old acquaintances and friends. Bart then, stripping
off the saddle and handing it to a boy to be carried back to the tavern, again went to the
head of the pony, and, after patting her on her neck, repeated certain words in her ear, which
seemed to produce the instant effect of arousing her spirit, and making her restless and impatient
for a start. After going through these and other ceremonies of the kind, which seemed greatly
to amuse the company, he mounted, reined up and announced himself ready for the signal.

After another delay, to indulge the company in the renewed shouts of laughter which were called
forth by the ludicrous contrast now presented in the appearance of the oddly matched competitors,
as the diminutive and shabby looking prisoner sat awkwardly mounted on his no less diminutive
and shabby pony, by the side of the portly Sturges and his large and finely built horse, the
signal was given, and the parties set forth amidst the encouraging hurrahs of the crowd. Their
progress, for a while was nearly equal; and the pony, though very unskilfully managed by her
seemingly raw and timid rider, continued to maintain her place by the side of the horse so
fully, as to render the result of the contest extremely doubtful. But as they drew near the
end of the coarse, and the horse, by the renewed incentives of his rider, began to gain on
her, she suddenly flounced, broke into a gallop, shot by the horse, giving him a staggering
kick in the chops as she passed, and, in spite of the apparent efforts of her rider, to bring
her up at the goal, plunged on directly towards the fence that had been thrown across the road.

"Whoa! whoa!" cried Bart, in tones of distress and affright, still appearing to strain every
nerve to hold in the ungovernable animal--"whoa! whoa! help, or I shall be thrown!"

"Help him there! stop her! seize her by the bits!" shouted Sturges, now riding up to the goal
to claim the bet.

But the perverse pony, veering about among those approaching on either side to seize, or head
her, with sundry monitory kicks thrown out sidewise towards them as she went, the next moment
reached, and, with a tremendous leap, cleared the barricade, and landed safely with her rider
in the open road on the other side. Here Bart hastily made another apparent attempt to rein
her up; but rearing and spinning round on her heels, she again made a plunge forward, and set
out in a keen run, making the ground smoke beneath her feet as she flew, with astonishing speed
along the road; while her rider, grasping her mane with both hands, and swaying from side to
side, as if hardly able to keep his seat at that, continued to bawl and screech, at every step,
"Whoa! whoa! stop her! stop her!" with all his might.

The tories were so completely taken by surprise by these manoeuvres, and the unexpected feat
of leaping the barricade that Bart and his fleet pony were nearly a quarter of a mile off,
before they sufficiently rallied from their astonishment and confusion to realize what had
passed; and when they did, hearing his piteous cries for help, and expecting every moment to
see him hurled headlong from his horse, they stood doubtfully looking at him and each other,
several seconds longer, before they thought of following him. Sturges, however, now took the
alarm, and, ordering the barricade to be thrown down, started off, with those who, like himself,
happened to be mounted, in pursuit. By this time, the fugitive had passed over an intervening
swell, which hid him from the view of the pursuers; and though their progress was rapid, yet,
when they gained the top of the swell, which commanded a view of the road till it entered the
woods, almost a half mile beyond, he was nowhere to be seen. But believing he must have gained
the woods, they pushed on, in the vain pursuit, about a mile farther; when, meeting some townsmen,
they ascertained that he had not passed in that direction. They then retraced their steps,
carefully examining every bypath and open spot by the road-side, where any ordinary horse could
be made to go; but making no discoveries, they concluded to return to the tavern for consultation;
for they grew more and more puzzled to know what to make of the prisoner, or how to account
for his mysterious escape, some affirming "he must have been in league with the devil, as no
horse, in a natural state, could have leaped that barricade, or have gone off so like a streak
of lightning after he was over it; and his strange doings with the pony, when he first met
her, and the bluish appearance that attended him along the road as he went off, with such unnatural
swiftness," were cited in confirmation. But when they reached the tavern, the prisoner, and
every thing attending his escape, were for the time forgotten in the excitement occasioned
by the more startling tidings just received. The constable had just arrived in great haste
announcing that Peters had been waylaid, and found murdered in the road, and calling on all
to turn out to arrest the unknown but suspected perpetrators of the horrid deed.

CHAPTER XIII.

  ----"despair itself grew strong
  And vengeance fed its torch from wrong"

On the same day, and near the same hour, on which Bart so singularly and luckily effected his
escape from his vindictive enemies, the bereft Woodburn left his lonely residence and walked
to the graveyard, to shed another tear over the freshly-laid turf that covered the remains
of his sainted mother. Here, as, standing over her grave, he reflected on the many excellences
of her character, recalled the many acts of her kindness and love towards him, never before
justly appreciated, and, at the same time, thought of the circumstances under which she had
sickened and died, his tears flowed fast and bitterly. While he was still lingering near the
sacred spot, immersed in these painful reflections, two ladies, from a neighboring cottage,
came, unperceived by him, along the road leading by the graveyard; when the younger of the
two, wholly unconscious that any one was within the enclosure, left the other to pass on to
the next house, and entered the yard to amuse herself there till her companion returned. Now
pausing to read an inscription, and now to pluck a wild violet, she slowly wandered towards
that part of the yard where Woodburn, still screened from her view by a clump of intervening
evergreens, was pensively reclining against a tomb stone in the vicinity of his mother's grave.
And here, taking a turn round the shrubbery, she came suddenly upon him; and, stopping short
in her course, she stood mute and confused before him, while her cheeks were mantled with a
deep blush at the awkwardness of the position in which she unexpectedly found herself.

"Miss Haviland!" exclaimed Woodburn, looking up in equal surprise. "Excuse me if I am wrong,
but, as little as I was expecting it, I think it is Miss Haviland whom I am addressing?"

"It is, sir," she replied, in a slightly tremulous voice; "but trust you will not think this
an intentional intrusion."

"No intrusion, fair lady. You do not rightly interpret my expression, which was one of surprise
at seeing you here, when I had supposed you to be in another part of the country. When I last
saw you, I supposed you on your return to Bennington."

"I was so at that time. But having recently come over with my father, who was journeying to
Connecticut, I am now tarrying with a sister in this neighborhood till he returns. Your allusion
to our parting, however, cannot but bring to mind the circumstances connected with our meeting,
nor fail to admonish me of my great obligations to you, sir, which I have never before found
a suitable opportunity of personally acknowledging. But be assured, Mr. Woodburn, I shall never
forget that fearful hour; yet sooner far the hour, than the hand that snatched me from my seemingly
inevitable doom."

"We both may have cause to remember the incidents attendant on that journey to Westminster,
Miss Haviland; and I, though I did but a common duty in assisting you, shall remember them,
on more accounts than one, I fear but too long."

"If you allude to your difficulties on that journey, and subsequently with one with whom we
were in company, I can only say, sir, that I have heard of them, and all your consequent misfortunes,
with the deepest regret, scarcely less on account of the author than the victim."

"I could have submitted to my pecuniary losses with a good degree of resignation; but, when
I think of the crowning act, and the consequences that followed it--when I look on that grave,"
continued the speaker, pointing to the fresh mound, with an effort to master his emotions,
"it is hard to endure."

"Such misfortunes," responded Miss Haviland, visibly touched at his distress; "such misfortunes,--injuries,
perhaps, I should call them,--I am sensible, are not easily forgotten; and I have sometimes
feared that it too often might be my fate to be associated with them in your mind."

"O, no, lady, no," said Woodburn, promptly; "though it were better for my happiness, perhaps,
if I could," he added, more gloomily; "for who will care what may be the feelings of one who
is now an outcast, without property, family, or friends?"

"Think not thus of yourself, Mr. Woodburn," replied the other, while a scarcely perceptible
tinge appeared on her fair cheek; "feel not thus. You do to yourself, and I doubt not to many
others, great injustice; certainly to one who can only think of you with the warmest gratitude."

"O, if all were like you, Miss Haviland!" returned Woodburn, with much feeling; "so just, so
generous, so pure, so beautiful! But I have already said too much," he continued checking himself.
"I intended not to have intimated aught of the thoughts and feelings which have obtruded themselves
upon me, even before I heard these kind expressions. And though what I have said cannot be
recalled, yet I have no thought of pressing any questions upon you under the accidental advantage
which your gratitude--other things being the same--might give me. I ask for no corresponding
impressions--I expect none. Being aware of your position, as well as my own, I shall not drive
you to the unpleasant task of repulsing me. I will repulse my self. I will conquer this new
enemy, though planted in my own bosom, lest it prove more dangerous to my peace than the one
with whom I have so vainly contended in another rivalry."

She raised her eyes with a look full of maidenly embarrassment, indeed, but with an expression
more resembling that of sorrow than resentment, as she gently replied,--

"I feel additionally grateful to you, Mr. Woodburn, for your delicate and generous course under
the circumstances in which, as you seem to be aware, I am placed. But as I now perceive my
companion approaching in the road, you will excuse my departure."

"Certainly," said Woodburn; "and you will forgive what has been said by one who is so truly
the prey of conflicting emotions?"

"O, yes, sir," she answered, looking up with a witching smile, as she bowed her adieu; "that
is, I will when you do any thing worthy of my forgiveness."

Woodburn stood mutely gazing after his lovely visitor till her small and graceful figure, floating
on in its devious course through the diversified grounds in almost fairy lightness, receded
from his enraptured sight; when he turned away with a sigh to commune with himself, try to
analyze his feelings, weigh consequences, give Reason her rightful sway, and follow her dictates.
After a long and deep struggle with his feelings, he appeared to come to some determination,
and, resolutely bringing down a foot on the ground, he exclaimed,--

"No, never! I will not give way to feelings which can only end in disappointment and mortification.
Begone, enticing vision, begone! I will harbor you no longer." And under the impulse of his
freshly-formed resolution, he abruptly left the spot, and hastened through the enclosure to
take his way homeward. As he was about to pass out into the road, his attention was attracted
by the barking of a small dog, that, having followed the ladies, and tarried behind on their
return, seemed to be intent on dragging out something from under a broad, flat stone, lying
in one corner of the graveyard. Feeling some inclination to know what discoveries the dog was
making in a spot so unpromising of any game that would be likely to attract him, Woodbury walked
to the spot; when he perceived the animal to be eagerly tugging away at some object, which
presented the appearance of the corners of some old leather-bound book, buried beneath the
stone. His curiosity being now excited, he stood by and patiently waited to see the result.
In a few minutes the dog succeeded in dragging out the object in question, which proved to
be an old record-book, or rather the remains of one, for a part of it had been converted by
the mice into a nest, and the rest was mutilated and falling to pieces. Leaving the dog to
pursue his object, which was now sufficiently explained, Woodburn gathered up the remains of
the book and stepped aside to examine them. On beating off the dirt and opening the unmutilated
parts, he soon, and to his great surprise, discovered it to be a volume of the town records;
the very volume, the loss of which, as he believed, had caused his defeat in his lawsuit with
Peters. And hurriedly running over the leaves, his eye, the next moment, fell on the record
of his own deed, with the dates precisely as he had contended, and standing in a connection
which would have proved the priority of his title, furnished him a complete defence, and saved
him from ruin!

The previous suspicions of Woodburn, respecting the disappearance of these records through
the agency of Peters, were now confirmed in the mind of the former, as certainly as if he had
witnessed the act; and this aggravating discovery, coming as it did too late to be of any benefit
to him, and at a moment, too, when his feelings, notwithstanding his recent declarations to
Miss Haviland, and his subsequent resolves, were sore from the insidious workings of jealousy,
and the revolting thought of the pretensions of his hated foe to her hand--this discovery,
we say, wrought up his mind, already embittered to the last degree of endurance, to a state
little short of absolute frenzy. And clinching the fragments of the book, which contained the
proof of the black transaction, in one hand, and flourishing the heavy oak cane he had with
him in the other, he rushed out of the enclosure, and, with a disturbed air and hurrying step,
took his way towards his desolate home, resolved, that in case he found, as he feared, that
all chance of legal redress had passed by, he would, at least, unsparingly make use of the
means, now in his power, in trumpeting the villainy of Peters to the world.

In this state of exasperation, after proceeding a short distance he unexpectedly and unfortunately
encountered the very object of his pent indignation, the haughty and hated Peters, who, on
horseback, was coming up a cross-road on his way to the Tory Tavern, where, as the reader has
been already apprised, his tools and partisans were anxiously awaiting his arrival.

"Ha! here? Then he shall be the first to hear it," muttered Woodburn, as with a flashing eye
he suddenly turned and sternly confronted the other in his path.

"What now, sir?" said Peters, reigning up with a look of surprise not unmingled with uneasiness.

"I will tell you what, now, sir," replied Woodburn, in a voice quivering with suppressed passion;
"your frauds are exposed! Here are the remains of those very records you or your tools purloined
to enable you to accomplish your unhallowed triumph over me, and now just found buried in yonder
graveyard!"

"Away, sir!" exclaimed Peters, recovering his usual assurance. "I know nothing of your crazy
jargon: stand aside and let me pass."

"Not till you have looked at the proof of what I assert, or acknowledged its correctness,"
persisted the other, extending his cane before the horse with his right hand, and thrusting
forward the open book with his left. "Here it is; here is the record of my deed--dates and
all, as I and you, too, sir, well knew them to be. Look at it, sir, and restore me my property,
or confess yourself a villain!"

At this juncture Peters, who had covertly reversed the loaded whip he carried in his hand that
he might strike more effectually, suddenly rose in his stirrups, and aimed a furious blow at
the head of his accuser. But as sudden and unexpected as was the dastardly movement, Woodburn
threw up his cane in time to arrest and parry the descending implement, when, quick as thought,
he paid back the intended blow with a force, of which, in the madness of the moment, he was
little conscious, full on the exposed head of his antagonist, who, curling like a struck bullock
beneath the fearful stroke, rolled heavily from his saddle to the ground. The exclamation of
triumph that rose to the lips of the victor died in his throat, as he took a second glance
at the motionless form and corpse-like aspect of the victim; and, recoiling a step, he stood
aghast at the thought of what he had done. After standing a minute with his eyes rivetted on
the face of his prostrate foe Woodburn, arousing himself, hurried forward, and, raising the
head, chafed the temples and wrists a moment, and then felt for the pulse, when, finding no
signs of life, he suddenly relinquished his hold, and with a look of horror and unutterable
distress, hastily fled from the spot, muttering as he went, "A murderer!--to crown the host
of misfortunes--a murderer!"

Soon striking off into a deep glade, diverging from the public way, he continued his course,
with a rapid step and troubled brow, on through the woods and back pastures, till he gained,
unobserved, the rear of his own cabin, when, entering, he threw himself into a chair, and,
burying his face in his hands, sat many minutes motionless and silent, apparently engaged in
deep and anxious thought, At length, he arose with a more composed look, and proceeded to make
up a pack of his wardrobe, with such valuables as could be conveniently carried, including
his mother's Bible. He then fitted his pack to his shoulders, took down his gun and ammunition,
and, throwing a sorrowful farewell glance round the lonely apartment, left the house, and bent
his course for the woods, in a northerly direction.

After travelling in the woods and unfrequented fields about two miles, he came in sight of
the point of intersection between the road near which he had been holding his course, and a
road coming into it from the central parts of the town. Here, concluding to pause till the
approaching darkness should more perfectly screen him, before going out into the main thoroughfare
leading up the Connecticut, he sat down on a log within the border of the woods, and again
gave way to the remorseful feelings and moody reflections that still painfully oppressed him.
His meditations, however, were soon disturbed by the quick, heavy tread of some animal, which
seemed to be approaching in the woods, at no great distance behind him. Instantly peering out
through the thicket in which he had ensconced himself, he soon, to his great surprise, descried
a horseman descending a difficult ledge, leaping old windfalls, and making his way through
all the opposing obstacles of the forest with wonderful facility, directly towards the spot
where he stood concealed in the thicket. Knowing that whatever might be the object of the person
approaching, it would be his wisest course to remain in his covert, from which he could not
move unobserved, and his curiosity being excited by the appearance of a horseman in a spot
that would have scarcely been deemed passable for a wild deer, he kept his stand; and continued
to regard the advancing figure with the most lively interest. But owing to the thickness of
the now full-leaved undergrowth, and the duskiness that by this time had gathered in the forest,
he could only catch occasional glimpses of either horse or rider, which enabled him to ascertain
nothing more than that they both were quite diminutive, and as it struck him, rather oddly
accoutred. They continued to advance directly towards him till within fifty yards of his covert,
when the horse, in emerging from a clump of bushes, which still enveloped the rider, stopped
short, and, looking keenly into the thicket, gave a quick, significant snort.

"What's in the wind now, Lightfoot?" said the rider to his horse, as, parting the obstructing
foliage with his hands, he thrust out his head, and disclosed to the surprised and gratified
Woodburn the well-known visage of his trusty friend, Barty Burt.

"This is, indeed, unexpected, Bart," said Woodburn, stepping out into plain view.

"Harry!" exclaimed the other, agreeably surprised in turn; "but are you sure there are no more
of you there in the bush?" he added, with a cautious glance at the thicket.

"Yes, I am alone here," answered the former.

"Well, I vags now!" resumed Bart, drawing a long breath, and riding forward--"I vags, if I
didn't begin to feel rather ticklish when Lightfoot give me that hint to look out for snakes,
just now. But the case aint quite what it might have been, considering."

"Considering what?"

"I know."

"Of course you do, as well as what brought you here with a horse, in so strange a place for
a horseback excursion."

"Just so, Harry; same as you know what brought you here with a pack on your back, in so queer
a route for a journey, when a smooth road is so near you."

Well knowing Bart's peculiarities, and that it would be useless to try to draw from him the
secret of his appearance here until he chose to reveal it, Woodburn, while the other dismounted
and told his pony to be cropping the bushes in the mean time, related all that had transpired
between himself and the victim of his deeply regretted paroxysm of passion, adding, at the
close of his gloomy and self-accusing recital,--

"I first thought, after reaching my house, that I would return and give myself up to the authorities;
but knowing, whether Peters should live or die, that I should be a doomed man in this part
of the country, I at length brought myself, perhaps wrongly, to try to get out of it undiscovered.
And I have now set my course for Boston, to join those there gathering for the approaching
struggle for liberty. And Heaven knows with what pleasure I shall now sacrifice my life in
her battles."

"Good! that's grand!" warmly responded Bart, who had listened to the other with many a whew!
of surprise at his accompanying expressions of self-condemnation for killing an antagonist
who struck the first blow--"that's grand! Here is what goes with you, Harry; for, between us
here, I and Lightfoot are clipping it from a predicament, as well as you."

"So I suspected. But what is it? Let us have your story now."

"Well, Harry, in the first place, do you know this critter I call Lightfoot?"

"No; at least I don't now remember to have noticed the animal before."

"Well, it is the colt old skin-flint Turner cheated me out of, last year."

"I think you told me something about it, but don't recollect the particulars; though I had
then no doubt, I believe, but the old man wronged you, as I understood you worked very hard
for him through the season."

"I did, like a niggar--cause he promised to give me this colt, then a little snubby three-year-old,
for my summer's work, if I would stay and work well for him, which I did, as I said. Well,
supposing the colt was to be mine, without any mistake, I made a sight of her, named her Lightfoot,
fed her, got her as tame as a dog, then trained her to understand certain words and signs,
which I at last got her to obey; and whether it was to trot, run, or jump fences, she would
do it as no other critter could. But just as I had got her to mind and love me, as I did her,
my time was out; and I went to settle off matters with the old man, and tell him I was going
to take her off with me, when--rot his pictur!--he pretended he had forgot all about his promise
to let me have her, and forbid my touching her, saying he had paid me all I earnt in the old
clothes which he urged on to me, against my will, and which were not worth one week's work,
as true as the book, Harry. Well, I couldn't help crying, to be cheated so, and, what was worse,
to lose Lightfoot. But it did no good. I had to come away without her, or any other pay; and,
from that time, I haven't seen her till to-day."

"But you have not now stole and run away with her, I trust Bart?"

"No; she run away with me," replied Bart, roguishly, as I can prove; for I hollered whoa all
the time, as loud as I could yell."

"But how came you mounted upon her at all?"

"Well, Harry, that brings me to the worst and best part of my story, all in one; and here goes
for it."

Bart, in his own peculiar manner, then related, with great accuracy, the particulars of his
arrest and escape from the tories, as we have already described them in the preceding chapter,
merely explaining, in addition, that Lightfoot well understood the game, and knew she was to
obey the signs he secretly gave her with his feet and hands, however loud he, or others, might
cry whoa or any of the terms usually addressed to horses. He then proceeded:--

"Well, you see, as soon as I got over the hill, out of sight, I looked out for a hard, stony
place, where Lightfoot couldn't be tracked; and, soon finding one, I leaped her over the fence,
and made full speed for the woods, which I luckily reached jest in time to wheel round in safety,
and see them thundering along by, in the road, after me. I then took it leisurely off in this
direction, contriving to keep mostly in the woods, where I had learnt Lightfoot, in riding
after the cows, last summer, to be as much at home in as in the road."

"And what do you propose to do with this horse now?" asked Woodburn.

"Take her along with me, to be sure, Harry."

"And so make yourself, in law, a horse-thief, eh? Do you expect me to join company with such
a character?"

"Well, now, Harry, I didn't expect the like of that from you, any how," observed Bart, evidently
touched at the remark. "The creature is honestly mine; and I supposed I had a right to get
what was mine away, if I could, without going to law, which would help me about as much as
it has you, I reckon. But supposing that to be law which aint right and justice, and so make
me out a thief, as you say, how much boot could I afford to give you, Harry, to swap predicaments
with me? You have just called yourself a murderer, which you aint, and me a horse-thief, which
I aint, any more than you the other. Now, how will you swap characters?"

"Bart, you have silenced me. Injustice and oppression have made us both outlaws, but not intentionally
wrong-doers. Let us still abstain from all intentional wrong, however trifling. And that leads
me to observe, that whatever justification you may have for taking away the horse, you probably
have none for carrying off the bridle."

"There you are out again, Harry. That bridle, which queerly happened to be put on Lightfoot
to-day, (as if it was kinder ordered I should get the beast,) is the very one I bought last
fall, to take her off with; but being so worked up, when I left, I forgot to bring it away."

"Upon my word, Bart, you are successful to-day in making defences."

"Always mean to be able to do so, Harry. Nobody has any honest claims on me in Guilford, now,
nor I any on them. I leave 'em with every thing squared, according to my religion.

"Except in the matter of your gun, which you leave--not exactly won by your opponent--behind
you; do you not?"

"They are welcome to it; much good may it do 'em. It has gone pretty much where I calkerlated
to get it off--among those who used me the worst; though I'd some rather it had gone to Fitch,
who hunts some, and would be sure to try it."

"That is queer reasoning, Bart."

"Well, there is a head and tail to it, for all that, Harry."

"What are they?"

"Why, the head, or cause, is, that the last time I shot the piece, I overloaded it, being for
black ducks, and the charge raised a seam, in a flaw underside the barrel, which I could blow
through. And the tail, or consequence, is, that the next man who shoots it will wish he'd never
seen it, I reckon."

"Ah, Bart, Bart, your religion, as you term it, is a strange one! But let us now dismiss the
past, and think of the future. If you join me for the army, what do you propose to do with
your horse--sell her?"

"Sell her? why, I'd as soon sell my daddy, if I had one. No, we'll keep her between us. You,
and Tom Dunning, and Lightfoot are the only friends I have in the world, Harry; and I want
we should kinder stick together. So I've been thinking up the plan, that we ride and tie, or
keep along together and foot it by turns, to-night, till we get to Westminster, when we will
beat up Dunning, and leave Lightfoot with him, who can take her to some of his sly places over
the mountain, and have her kept for us. Then, if one of us gets killed, or any thing, so as
never to come back, let the other take her; and if both fail to come, then let Tom have her
for his own."

And Bart's plan being adopted, our two humble, friendless, and nearly penniless adventurers
left the wood, and entering the northern road, set forth on their destination, Woodburn first
mounting the pony and keeping some hundred yards in advance, and Bart forming the rear-guard,
under the agreement that the latter, on hearing any bounds of pursuit, should utter the cry
of the raccoon, when both were to plunge into the woods, and remain till the danger had passed by.

After travelling in this manner, and at a rapid rate, about two hours, without encountering
any thing to excite their apprehension or delay their progress, they entered a long reach of
unbroken forest, which neither of them remembered ever to have passed through. But not being
able to conceive where they could have turned off from the river road, which was their intended
route, they continued to move doubtingly onwards some miles farther, till the increasing obstructions
and narrowness of the path, together with the absence of the settlements which they knew they
must have found before this time on the road up the Connecticut, fully convinced Woodburn they
had lost their way. And he was on the point of proposing to retrace their steps, when, descrying
a light some distance ahead, emanating, as he supposed, from the hut of a new settler, he at
once concluded to push on towards it, for the purpose of making inquiries of the occupants
to ascertain their situation. In making for the light, of which, for a while, only feeble and
occasional glimmerings could be obtained through the dense foliage that overhung the devious
path, they at length came to an apparently well-cultivated opening, containing about a dozen
acres, on one side of which stood a small, snug-looking stone house, built against or near
a boldly projecting ledge of rocks. As they approached the house, their attention was arrested
by the loud and earnest voice of a man within, engaged, evidently, in prayer. Concluding that
the man was at his family evening devotions, which they had no thought of disturbing, they
left the horse at a little distance from the house, and silently drawing near to the door,
paused and reverently listened. A confused recollection of the supplicant's voice, together
with his deep and fervid tones, his bold language, and especially the subject that seemed then
mostly to engross his thoughts, at once awakened the interest and rivetted the attention of
Woodburn. The great burden of his soul was, obviously, the political condition of his country.
And, after vividly painting the many wrongs she had suffered from her haughty oppressors, and
warmly setting forth her claims to divine assistance, he broke forth, in conclusion,--

"My country! O my injured, oppressed, and down-trodden country! shall the cry of thy wrongs
go up in vain to Heaven? Will not the God of battles hear and help thee, in this the hour of
thy peril and of thy need? O, wilt thou not, Lord, extend Thy mighty arm in her defence? O,
teach the proud Britons, now thronging our shores--teach them, scoffing Goliahs as they are,
that there are young Davids in our land! O, bring their counsels to nought! Scatter their fleets
by thy tempests at sea, and destroy their armies on land! Sweep them off by bullet and plague!
and--and"--suddenly checking himself, he meekly added, "and save their souls; and this, Lord,
is all that in conscience I can ask for them. Amen."

Woodburn now gently rapped at the door, which, after a slight pause, was opened, and Herriot,
the late prisoner of the royal court, stood before him.

"If this is Harry Woodburn," he said, after scrutinizing the other's features a moment, "he
is very welcome to my hut. But you are not alone?" he added, glancing towards Bart, who stood
several paces in the background.

"No," replied Woodburn; "I have in company a young man whom you may, perhaps, recollect as
the messenger that appeared several times at the grate of our prison at Westminster, to bring
us news of the progress of the rising."

"Ah, yes, well do I recollect that goodly youth, and have ever since taken a peculiar interest
in him. Invite him in. All this is opportune, very--very," said Herriot, leading the way into
the house.

After the recluse had ushered his guests into the principal room of his very simply furnished
house, of which he and a servant boy, of perhaps fifteen, were the only inmates, he turned
to Woodburn, and said,--

"As my retreat here in the woods, and the road that leads to it, are known to so few, I conclude
that your young friend here, Mr. Woodburn, acted as your guide on the occasion."

"O, no," replied the other; "we had lost our way, having left the river road inadvertently,
and were about to turn back, when, catching a glimpse of your light, we came on to make inquiries.
We neither of us knew when we struck into the road leading hither."

"Do you agree to that statement, without any qualification, master Bart?" asked the recluse,
with a doubting and slightly puzzled air.

"Well, some of it, I reckon," answered Bart, with a look of droll gravity.

"Why, you told me, sir," responded Woodburn, rather sharply "that you had never travelled this
road before."

"No more I hadn't," replied Bart, composedly; "but I didn't say I didn't know where it turned
off, for Tom Dunning told me that."

"Bart," said Woodburn, seriously, "though I am not sorry to have fallen in with father Herriot,
yet, as between you and me, this needs explanation. It looks as if you purposely led me astray."

"Well now, Harry, no offence, I hope. The thing was kinder agreed on, somehow, that you should
come this way, when you left Guilford, which was understood would happen soon. If I hadn't
fell in with you as I did, it was my notion to take Lightfoot here, or at Dunning's, and then
go back and skulk there somewheres till you was ready to come; but finding you and things all
coming so handy like, when we got to where the road turned off, I thought I'd let you follow
me into it, if you would, and say nothing till we got here."

"I am still perfectly at a loss how to understand all this, Bart and I still wish you would
more fully explain it."

"I will take that task upon myself; for I suppose I am somewhat in the secret respecting the
little plot of your friends," said Herriot, going to a chest, and bringing forward a small
bag of money. "This has been deposited with me for your use and benefit. It is the price of
your cow and oxen, sold by Dunning to a drover from Rhode Island. The sum is, I believe, about
fifty dollars, which I now deliver you, as your own unquestionable property."

In the explanation that now ensued, it appeared that the cattle, which had been rescued by
the friends of Woodburn, without his privity, lest the scruples it was feared he might entertain
should lead him to interfere with the plan, were taken that night to the retreat of Herriot,
who was made acquainted with the whole transaction; and that the next day, while Dunning went
up the river in search of a purchaser, the other, who was not without his scruples, also, about
sanctioning the procedure, repaired to lawyer Knights for his opinion on the subject. And the
latter, having been confidentially let into the secret, and given it as his decided opinion
that the judgment, to satisfy which the cattle had been seized, was an illegal and void one,
and that the cattle so seized might rightfully be taken for the owner, without legal process
if found out of the hands of the officer, the recluse returned and actively cooperated with
the hunter; the result of which was, that a purchaser was soon found, who paid the money for
the stock and immediately drove it from the country.

This, to Woodburn, was an unexpected development. And now, after hearing the explanation of
Herriot, being satisfied of the propriety of the course so generously taken by his friends
in his behalf, he gratefully received the money; and, in turn, while Bart and the servant were
out caring for the pony, he confidentially disclosed to the recluse the painful occurrence
of the afternoon which had led to his sudden flight from home, and his determination of immediately
joining the army, concluding by giving the particulars of Bart's arrest and singular escape
from the tories.

"You have acted wisely, Mr. Woodburn," observed Herriot after listening with deep interest
to the recital. "Peters may yet recover; but should he not, I do not view the act in so criminal
a light as that in which you yourself have placed it. And in the absence of all intention of
killing the man, I feel very clear that it is not a deed meriting the punishment you would
be likely to receive, if you had put your fate into the hands of the corrupted witnesses who
would probably have been brought against you. Yes, you have acted wisely in leaving that wicked
Babel of toryism, and nobly in devoting yourself to the cause of your bleeding country. My
blessing and prayers will attend you and your young friend, to whom, I trust, you will act
the friend and adviser he will doubtless need. But come, Harry," he added, taking up a light,
and making a sign for the other to follow him, "some new notions have come into my head since
I became acquainted with you and your young friend, at Westminster, and knowing of no two persons
in whom I take greater interest, I have concluded to impart something to you in confidence."

So saying, he led the way into the cellar, the bottom of which was flagged over with stones
of various shapes and sizes; when pointing to a broad, flat stone lying near the centre of
the room, he asked Woodburn to raise it. Wondering what could be the object of so unexpected
a request, the latter, with considerable effort, succeeded in raising the stone to an upright
position, and in so doing brought to view two small iron-bound casks, standing in a cavity
beneath, and labelled, in large inky letters, "Printers Type."

"Printing, then, was formerly your trade?" said Woodburn, inquiringly, perceiving the other
not inclined to be the first to speak.

"Well, that is a respectable calling, is it not?" said the other, evasively.

"Certainly," replied Woodburn; "but I had not looked for any immediate use for such implements
in this new settlement."

"The contents of those casks, nevertheless, are of more value than you may think them, Harry,
and may soon be needed for the public, in the times now at hand. But what I wish to say to
you is, in the first place, that you are not to divulge what you have seen to any one but your
young friend, and not to him unless you are satisfied he can be trusted, or you are about to
die. And, in the second place, if you hear of my death, both of you are to come here, take
possession of these casks, and divide the contents equally between you as your own. I have
now no relative that will appear to claim them. You will also find, enclosed in one of the
casks, certain documents, which I have recently deposited there, explaining my wishes, as well
as some secrets of my life connected with discoveries lately made by me, that interest others
besides myself. This you, or the survivor of you two, if one should die, will do in case I
am taken away. And even if I continue to live, my designs will probably not be altered and
I shall wish to see you both again when you are permitted to return to your old homes. And
still further, I would say, that should you be in want at any time, and will apply to me, I
will dispose of enough of this property to supply your necessities. Now replace the stone,
and let us return to the room above."

Woodburn knew not what to make of all this mystery, or affected mystery, as he believed it.
But knowing the singularities of the man, he forebore to ask any questions, and they left the
cellar in silence. Soon after they had returned, Bart and the servant came in; when a frugal
meal was set before the travellers. And while the latter were occupied in partaking their repast,
the recluse procured his writing materials, and penning a brief letter, presented it to Woodburn,
saying, "There is a letter of introduction to a former friend of mine, who, I understand, is
appointed to an important command in the army now mustering at Cambridge. It may be of service
to you. And now," he added, as his guests rose to depart--"now, my young friends and fellow-sufferers
from oppression, go--deserve well of your country, and desert her not till the British Dagons
are all leveled to the dust, which may God speedily grant. Amen."

In a few minutes more, our adventurers were on their way. And being now invigorated, both in
body and mind, by what had occurred during their call at the retreat of their mysterious friend
they pressed on so rapidly, for the next three or four hours, that they arrived at Dunning's
cabin, in Westminster, just as the first faint flush of daylight appeared in the east. Here
luckily finding the hunter already astir, cooking his breakfast, preparatory to any early start
on some new excursion, they joined him in his delicious meal, which consisted of the rich steaks
of a salmon caught the preceding evening. And having finished their breakfast, and made the
contemplated arrangement with Dunning, to take charge of Lightfoot, their now common favorite,
the last-named person set them across the Connecticut in his log canoe; when, looking back
from the woody shore of the New Hampshire side, they bade a long farewell to the Green Mountains,
whose tall, blue peaks were then beginning to grow bright in the rays of the rising sun, and
resolutely plunged into the dark recesses before them.

VOLUME II.

THE RANGERS;

OR,

THE TORY'S DAUGHTER.

CHAPTER I.

  "We owe no allegiance, we bow to no throne;
   Our ruler is law, and the law is our own;
   Our leaders themselves are our own fellow-men,
   Who can handle the sword, the scythe, or the pen."

Vermont was ushered into political existence midst storm and tempest. We speak both metaphorically
and literally; for it is a curious historical fact, that her constitution, the result of the
first regular movement ever made by her people towards an independent civil government, was
adopted during the darkest period of the revolution, at an hour of commotion and alarm, when
the tempest of war was actually bursting over her borders and threatening her entire subversion.
And, as if to make the event the more remarkable, the adoption took place amidst a memorable
thunder-storm, but for the happening of which, at that particular juncture, as will soon appear,
that important political measure must have been postponed to a future period, and a period,
too, when the measure, probably, would have been defeated, and the blessings of an independent
government forever lost, owing to the dissensions, which, as soon as the common danger was
over, New York and New Hampshire combined to scatter among her people. The whole history of
the settlement and organization of the state, indeed, exhibits a striking anomaly when viewed
with that of any other state in the Union. She may emphatically be called the offspring of
war and controversy. The long and fierce dispute for her territory between the colonies above
named had sown her soil with dragon teeth, which at length sprang up in a crop of hardy, determined,
and liberty-loving men, who, instead of joining either of the contending parties, soon resolved
to take a stand for themselves against both. And that stand, when taken, they maintained with
a spirit and success, to which, considering the discouragements, difficulties, and dangers
they were constantly compelled to encounter, history furnishes but few parallels. But although
every step of her progress, from the felling of the first tree in her dark wilderness to her
final reception into the sisterhood of the states, was marked by the severest trials, yet the
summer of 1777--the period to which the remainder of our tale refers--was, for her, far the
most gloomy and portentous. And still it was a period in which she filled the brightest page
of her history, and, at the same time, did more than in any other year towards insuring her
subsequent happy destiny.

In the beginning of this eventful year, the people of Vermont, by their delegates in formal
convention assembled, had declared themselves independent--

  "Independent of all save the mercies of God,"

as the poet, who has furnished us the heading of this chapter, and who has so strikingly embodied
the feelings of those he describes, has significantly expressed it. And having taken measures
for publishing their declaration to the world, the convention closed their proceedings by appointing
a committee, selected as combining the most happily an acquaintance with form and precedent
with a knowledge of the ways and wants of the people, to draft a constitution to be submitted
to a new convention, which the people were invited to call for that purpose. In response to
that call, a new convention assembled at Windsor, in the month of July following, and proceeded,
with that diligence and scrupulous regard to the employment of their time for which the early
public bodies of this state were so noted, to take into consideration the important instrument
now submitted to them as a proper basis on which to erect the superstructure of a civil government,
suited to the genius and necessities of an industrious and frugal people--a people who, though
keenly jealous of their individual rights, and exceedingly restive under all foreign authority,
had yet declared their willingness, and even their wish, to receive and obey a system of legal
restraints, if it could be one of their own imposing. For five days, from rising to setting
sun, this convention employed the best energies of their practical and enlightened minds in
discussing and amending the document before them. But their labors for the present, if not
forever, had well nigh been lost, for, soon after they had assembled, on the sixth day of their
session, and while they were intently listening to the reading of the instrument for the last
time before taking a final vote on its adoption their proceedings were suddenly brought to
a stand by the alarming news, loudly proclaimed by a herald, who appeared on his foam-covered
horse before their open door, that Ticonderoga, the supposed impregnable barrier of frontier
defence, had fallen, and our scattered troops were flying in every direction before a formidable
British army, that was sweeping, unopposed, along the western border of the state, flanked
by a horde of merciless savages, from whose fearful irruptions not a dwelling on that side
of the mountains would probably be spared!

This intelligence, so unexpected and so startling, too nearly concerned the members of the
convention, not only as patriots, but as men, to permit their entire exemption from the general
consternation and dismay which were every where spreading around them; and many a staid heart
among them secretly trembled for the fate of the near and dear ones left at homes in which
the red tomahawk might, even at that very moment, be busy at its work of death; while the bosoms
of all were burning to be freed from their present duties, that they might seize the sword
or musket and fly to the relief of their endangered families, or mingle in the common defence
against the haughty invaders of their soil. Any further proceedings with the subject on hand,
at such a moment, were soon perceived to be utterly impossible; and a majority f the members
began to press eagerly for an immediate adjournment. But while a few of their number, sharing
less than the rest in the general agitation, or being more deeply impressed with the importance
of accomplishing, at this time, an object now so nearly attained, were attempting to resist
the current, and prevent any action on the motion to adjourn, till time was gained for reflection,
an unwonted darkness, as if by the special interposition of Providence, suddenly fell upon
the earth. The lightnings began to gleam through the dark and threatening masses of cloud that
had enveloped the sky, and the long, deep roll of thunder was heard in different quarters of
the heavens, giving warning of the severe and protracted tempest which soon burst over them
with a fury that precluded all thought of venturing abroad, The prospect of being thus confined
to the place for some hours, and perhaps the whole day, taking from those moving it all inducement
for an immediate adjournment, they now began to take a cooler view of their situation; and
soon, by common consent the business on hand was resumed. The reading of the constitution was
finished; and, while the storm was still howling around, and the thunders breaking over them,
that instrument was adopted, and became the supreme law of the land. [Footnote: Through inadvertence
arising out of the unsettled state of the times, or design among the leaders who might have
fears for the result, the constitution was never submitted to the people for their ratification
or rejection; but, no questions ever being raised on account of this informality it was acquiesced
in as valid and binding.]

One thing more remained to be done; and that was, to constitute a provisional government to
act till the one pointed out by the constitution just adopted could be established. This was
now effected by the appointment of that small body of men since known as the Old Council of
Safety of Vermont, and noted alike for the remarkable powers with which they were clothed,
and the remarkable manner in which those powers were exercised; for, from the nature of the
case, and the emergency in which these men were called to act, they were almost necessarily
invested with the extraordinary combination of legislative, judicial, and executive power.
But this power, absolute and dictatorial as it was, they never abused or exercised but for
the public good; and in this they were cheerfully sustained by the people, who felt that they
were thus not only sustaining the cause of freedom, but the laws which were of their own providing,
and which they were anxious should be obeyed.

To that unique assembly, of whose origin we have been speaking, we propose next to introduce
the reader. In obedience to an order of the convention, issued at the moment of its hasty dissolution,
near the close of the memorable day before described, the different members of this newly-appointed
body, many of whom, it is believed, were also members of the one just dissolved, had promptly
convened at Arlington. But finding themselves here endangered by the near vicinity of the enemy,
they had adjourned into the more interior town of Manchester, within whose barricade of mountains
they could proceed with their deliberations with little fear of interruption. And here, conscious
that the eyes of all were turned anxiously upon them, in the expectation that they would provide
for the safety of the infant state, whose destinies had been committed to their hands, they
commenced the worse than Egyptian task devolving on them--that of making adequate provisions
for the public defence, while the means were almost wholly wanting; for with scarcely the visible
means in the whole settlements in its then exhausted and unsettled condition, of raising and
supporting a single company of soldiers, they were expected to raise an army. Without the shadow
of a public treasury, without any credit as a state, and without the power of taxing the people,--which,
by the constitution just adopted, could only be done by the legislature not yet called,--they
were required to do that for which half a million of money might be needed. Such were the difficulties
by which they were met at the outset--difficulties which, to men of ordinary stamina and mental
resources, would have been insurmountable. But these were not men of ordinary stamina, either
moral or mental. They had been selected by the representatives of the people for the qualities
which would fit them to guide the helm of state in this difficult and alarming crisis. And,
unshrinkingly proceeding to the discharge of their high responsibilities, they soon evinced,
by their conduct, that the confidence reposed in them had not been misplaced; for the glorious
results of the field of Bennington, and the incessant and harassing warfare on the flanks of
the enemy which both preceded and followed that event, and which drew forth from its despairing
leader his best apology for his defeat and surrender, were, far more than is generally supposed,
the fruits of the combined energy and talents of that unequalled little band of patriots and
statesmen. [Footnote: A finer tribute of praise to the Green Mountain Boys could scarcely have
been given, than the one involved in Burgoyne's letter to Lord Germain, written about the time
of the battle of Bennington, in which he says, "The Hampshire Grants, a country unpeopled,
and almost unknown, in the last war, now abounds in the most active and the most rebellious
race of men on the continent, and hangs like a gathering storm on my left."] But the particular
time we have chosen for lifting the curtain from their secret proceedings was at the darkest
and most disheartening hour they were doomed to experience, and before the united mind of their
body had been brought to bear on any measure which afforded a reasonable promise of auspicious
results. The army of Burgoyne was then hovering on their borders in its most menacing attitude.
Marauding parties were daily penetrating the interior, and plundering and capturing the defenceless
inhabitants, while each day brought the unwelcome news of the defection of individuals who
had openly gone off to swell the ranks of the victorious enemy to whose alarming progress scarcely
a show of resistance had yet been interposed. Nor was this the end of the chapter of trials
and discouragements that awaited the council. Another blow was to be added, more calculated
than all to test their firmness and bring home to their bosoms a sense of the perils of the
crisis, and the necessity of immediate action, unless they should conclude to yield at once
to the current of destiny which seemed to be setting so strongly against them. But let us present
the mortifying and disgraceful event, to which we last alluded, in another form, in which the
historic pen, that thus far in this chapter has only been employed, may be legitimately aided
by the pencil of fancy, while we bring the leading individuals of this body to view, and sketch
the details of a scene as truthful in outline as it was important in result.

The long summer day was drawing to a close. It had been thus far spent by the council, as had
been the several preceding days of their session, in discussing the subject of the ways and
means of doing something to avert the doom that hung over their seemingly devoted state. But
up to this hour their deliberations had been wholly fruitless. Project after project for the
means of raising military forces had been brought forward and discussed; and each in turn had
been thought to be impracticable, and had been consequently abandoned, till, wearied with their
unavailing labors, and discouraged at the dubious prospect before them, they now began to think
of giving up business for the day, when the door-keeper, with unwonted haste and an agitated
manner, entered the room, and announced to the astonished members of the council the alarming
tidings that one of their own body, and, until that day, an active participator in their discussions,
had proved a Judas, and was now, with a band of his recreant neighbors, on his way to the British
camp. The news fell like a thunder-clap on the council, producing, at first, a sensation not
often witnessed in so grave an assemblage. But no formal comments were offered; and, after
the commotion had subsided, all sunk into a thoughtful silence, which we will improve by our
promised introduction to the reader of the leading members of the council.

Separated from the rest by a sort of enclosure composed of tables strung across one end of
the apartment, which was a large upper room of an inn, hastily fitted up for the occasion,
conspicuously sat the president of the council, the venerable Thomas Chittenden, the wise,
the prudent, and the good, who was to Vermont what Washington was to the Union; and who, though
not possessing dazzling greatness, had yet that rare combination of moral and intellectual
qualities which was more fortunate for him--good sense, great discretion, firmness, honesty
of purpose, benevolence, and unvarying equanimity of temper, united with a modest and pleasing
address. And by the long and continued exercise of this golden mean of qualities, he was destined
to leave behind him an honest, enduring fame--a memorial of good deeds and useful every-day
examples, to be remembered and quoted, both in the domestic circle and in the public assembly,
when the far superior brilliancy of many a contemporary had passed away and been forgotten.
He was now something over fifty; but so fine were his physical endowments, and so temperate
and regular had been his habits, that time had scarcely left a trace on his manly brow; and
his fair and well-moulded features had almost the freshness of youth. And notwithstanding the
unpretending simplicity of his deportment, and the extreme plainness of his dress, the large
arm-chair, in which he now reclined, furnished probably by some considerate matron of the neighborhood
for his special convenience, could not have found, in the broad land, an occupant who would
have filled it with more native dignity, or one better fitted to restrain by courteous firmness,
and by tact guide into safe and appropriate fields of action, the less disciplined and more
fiery spirits of the body over which he presided.

Let us now take a glance at the more prominent members of this notable little band of public
conservators. Here, immersed in thought, sat, side by side, like brothers, as they were, the
two Fays, those intelligent, enterprising, and persevering friends of freedom and state independence.
And there sat the two Robinsons, alike patriotic, and active, or able, according to the different
spheres of action in which they were about to be distinguished--one in the tented field, and
the other on the bench and in the national councils. In another place was seen the short, thick-set
form of the uncompromising Matthew Lyon, the Irish refugee, who was willing to be sold to pay
his passage to America, for the sake of getting out of the despotic moral atmosphere of the
old world, into one where his broad chest, as he was wont to say, could expand freely, and
where his bold spirit could soar unclogged by the trammels of legitimacy. In his eagle eye,
in every lineament of his clear, ardent, and fearless countenance, indeed, might be read the
promise of what he was to become--the stern democrat, and the well-known champion of the whole
right and the largest liberty. In contrast to him, near by was seen the tall, commanding form,
and the firm and thoughtful countenance, of Benjamin Carpenter, who had just arrived, with
pack and cane, from Guilford, from which he had that day come on foot by a route designated
by marked trees, through the mountain wilderness, nearly thirty miles in extent. Farther on,
and seated before an open window, was Thomas Rowley, the first poet of the Green Mountains.
He was here because he was a public favorite, a trusty patriot, and something of a statesman.
But, like most other poets, he was not without his peculiarities of temperament, as might have
been seen by his manner and movements even in this staid assembly; for, as if disgusted with
a tedious and profitless debate, and determined also not long to be troubled by the disconcerting
news just announced, he had now evidently cast these cares from his mind, to indulge in the
more congenial employment of gazing out upon the landscape, over which his kindling eye might
have been seen to wander, till it rested, in rapture, on the broad empurpled side and bright
summit of the lofty Equinox Mountain, whose contrasted magnificence was growing every moment
more striking and beautiful in the beams of the low-descending sun. On the opposite side of
the room stood the mild and gentlemanly Nathan Clark, the future speaker of the first legislature
of Vermont; and by his side, the dark and rough-featured Gideon Olin, an embryo member of Congress,
was leaning against the wall, with a countenance of mingled sternness and gloom.

By the side of one of the tables, in front of the president, might also have been seen the
stout, burly frame, and the matter-of-fact and business-like countenance, of Paul Spooner,
engaged in writing a despatch. And as the last, though not as the least, among the strongly-contrasted
characters of this assembly of whom we propose to take note, let us turn to the youthful secretary
of the council, Ira Allen. So much the junior of his colleagues was he, indeed, that a spectator
might well have wondered how he came to be selected as one of such a sage and elderly body
of councillors. But those who procured his appointment knew full well why they had done so;
and his history thenceforward was destined to prove a continued justification of their high
opinion of him. He was of an active, mercurial turn, and, as might have been seen, was not
inclined to remain long in one place or posture. He had now thrown aside his rapid pen, and,
with a quick, light step and deeply-cogitating air, was traversing back and forth the open
space between his table, in front of the president, and the closed door of the apartment. Both
in form and feature, he was one of the handsomest men of his day; while a mind at once versatile,
clear, and penetrating, with perceptions as quick as light, was stamped on his Grecian brow,
or found a livelier expression in his lucid black eyes and other lineaments of his strikingly
intellectual countenance. Such as he appeared for the first time on the stage of public action
was the noted Ira Allen, whose true history, when written, will show him to have been, either
secretly or openly, the originator, or successful prosecutor, of more important political measures,
affecting the interests and independence of the state, and the issue of the war in the Northern
Department, than any other individual in Vermont, making him, with the many peculiar traits
of character he possessed, one of the most remarkable men of the times in which he so conspicuously
figured.

"I have finished, Mr. President," said Spooner, now breaking the gloomy silence which had,
for an unusual interval, pervaded the assembly--"I have finished the despatch, suggested by
your honor, requiring the attendance of the absent member from the east side of the mountain--General
Bayley. And having put it into the form of a familiar letter, I have ventured to enlarge somewhat
on our perplexing situation, especially in the matter of the miserable Squire Spencer, whose
treasonable desertion I little dreamed, when I commenced writing, I should have the mortification
of announcing." [Footnote: The original letter from Paul Spooner to General Jacob Bayley, of
Newbury, written in council, requiring the attendance of the latter, and informing him of Spencer's
defection, and the gloomy situation of affairs, is still preserved, and affords, notwithstanding
the disheartening news it communicates, a striking proof of the determination of that body
to struggle on to the last against the mountain of difficulties which, at this dark crisis,
seemed to lie before them.]

"That is well," responded the president; "and we must look up some suitable messenger to convey
it to its destination. But I had hoped to forward, by the same hand, the despatch requesting
the aid and co-operation of New Hampshire, which has been deferred till some definite action
of our own should enable us to inform the council of that state what we of the Grants propose
to do ourselves towards the object for which we invoke their assistance. This they will doubtless
consider essential to be known, before listening to our call, as otherwise they will not know
whether they will find among us more friends to assist than enemies to impede them. But what
can we now tell them? I will submit to you, gentlemen of the council," he continued, in a kindly
expostulating tone--"I will submit to your good sense and patriotism, whether it is not now
time to adopt some decided course to be pursued. We must not be disheartened by a few untoward
circumstances. Providence not unfrequently frowns on us for our own good. And who shall say,
in the present instance, that our deliberations have not been wisely and kindly rendered of
no effect till after Spencer's desertion, since, had we adopted a plan of operations while
he was here, the whole of it, by this time, had been in the possession of the British general?
But be that as it may, the event of this man's apostasy, of itself, instead of making us timid
and irresolute in action, should but render us more prompt and decided. The people, as we all
feel painfully conscious, I presume, expect much from us. Shall we disappoint them in every
thing? Because we cannot consistently do all that may be expected, shall we resolve to do nothing?
I have listened to your objections to levying a general tax upon the people, as the means of
raising a military force; and, with you, I consider them valid; for to infringe the constitution,
just adopted, by an arbitrary taxation, would be setting a dangerous precedent, and one which
would come with a bad grace from those of us here who helped to adopt it. No; we must resort
to other means. We can, if we will, borrow, pledging ourselves as individuals, with such others
as we may find willing to stand sponsors with us, that the state shall hereafter pay the debt;
or we may resort to voluntary contributions. I am aware the people are unable to contribute
much. I am aware that a great portion of the inhabitants have been driven from their homes,
and are now living on the hospitality of the rest. But for all this, the people can and will
cheerfully contribute something--more, I think, than we should be willing to require of them.
I have ten head of cattle, which can be spared for the emergency. But am I more patriotic than
you, and hundreds of others in the settlement? My wife has a valuable gold necklace. Hint to
her to-day that it is needed for the public service, and, my word for it, to-morrow you will
find it in the treasury of freedom. But is my wife any more public-spirited than yours and
many others among us? Gentlemen, I await your propositions."

During this moderate, but really well-timed and effective appeal of the president, drooping
heads began to be raised, perplexed and desponding countenances grew brighter, and by the time
he had closed, several speakers were on their feet, eager to respond.

"Mr. Carpenter has the floor, I think, gentlemen," said the president.

"I rose," said Carpenter, "but to give my hearty response to the sentiments of the chair. It
is time, high time, for some definite and decided action. Less talking and more action shall
henceforth be my motto. I have not now, it is true, any digested proposition to present to
the council; but I soon will have one, unless others are offered; for, in this emergency, it
is little short of a crime to dally any longer."

"Ay, action! action!" responded several voices.

"Action let it be, then," said Rowley, the next rising to speak. "If it be true, as has been
urged, Mr. President, that we cannot raise money by general assessment without exceeding our
power; and disaffecting the people, and that we must depend on voluntary contribution, which
receivers, appointed for the purpose, may more appropriately gather in than ourselves, why
are we needed here? I will, therefore, make a proposition, which, while it will be obnoxious
to none of the objections brought against other plans of defence, will give gentlemen as much
action as they want. I propose, Mr. President, that each of us here, before any more of us
run away to the enemy, seize a standard, repair singly to the different hamlets among our mountains,
cause the summoning drum to beat for volunteers, and lead them, when obtained, to do battle
in person with this Jupiter Olympus of a British general, who has so nearly annihilated the
country by proclamation."

"Tom Rowley all over! but a gallant push nevertheless," vivaciously exclaimed Samuel Robinson,
in an under tone. "And yet, Mr. President," he continued, dropping the jocose, and now rising
to speak in form--"and yet, if our colleague's spirited proposal could be carried into effect,
and men be found to volunteer under such military leaders as most of us would make,--or if
the different towns, as has been suggested by others, would order out the militia on our requisition,--even
then, it appears to me, we should raise a permanent and regularly enlisted force, to serve
a rallying point or nucleus for the militia, or our patriotic friend's army of volunteers.
I therefore move, as I was about to do when others claimed the floor--I move the raising of
a regular force, however small our means may compel us to make it; and as the smallest to be
thought of, I will name one company of one hundred men, to be raised and supported by one of
the methods suggested by the president."

"And I," said Clark, promptly rising--"and I, believing we may venture to go a little higher
than that, I propose, we have to raise two companies of sixty men each."

"No, No!" cried several voices; "one company. Means can be found for no more than one."

"Yes, yes! the larger number first, Mr. President! I go for two companies," cried others.

"And I go for neither, Mr. President" said Ira Allen stopping short in his walk, and turning
to the chair. "For I believe the council, on a little reflection, will conclude to do something
more worthy of the character of the Green Mountain Boys, than the raising of the paltry force
which even the bes' of these propositions involves. And I doubt not the means of so doing may
be soon and abundantly supplied, without infringing the constitution or distressing the people.
And I therefore move, sir, that this council resolve to raise a full regiment of men, forthwith
appoint their officers, and take such prompt and speedy measures for their enlistment, that,
within one week every glen in Vermont shall resound with the stir of military preparation."

"Chimerical!" said one, who, in common with the rest of the council, seemed to hear, with much
surprise, a proposition of this magnitude so confidently offered, when the doubt appeared to
be whether even the comparatively trifling one of Clark would be adopted.

"Impossible, utterly impossible to raise pay for half of them," responded several others.

"Don't let us say that till we are compelled to do so," said the patriotic Carpenter, in an
encouraging tone. "This proposition jumps so well with my wishes, that I would not see it hastily
abandoned. For, although I confess I do not pretend to see where the requisite means are to
come from, yet some new light, in this respect, may break in upon us by another day. And could
we but see our way clear to sustain this proposition, we should feel like men again."

"Amen to all that," responded Clark. And as the hour for adjournment has now arrived, I move
that our young colleague, who offered this proposition with so much confidence in the discovery
of a way to carry it into execution, and who is said to be very fertile in expedients, be appointed
a committee to devise the ways and means of paying the bounties and wages of the regiment he
proposes to raise; and that he make his report to the council by sunrise to-morrow morning."

"Second that motion, Mr. President" cried Lyon, in his usual full, determined tone of voice
and strong Irish accent. "I go for the whole of Mr. Allen's proposition, means or no means.
But the means can, must, and shall be found, sir! We will put the gentleman's brains under
the screws to-night," he continued, jocosely turning to Allen; "and if he appears here in the
morning empty-handed, he ought to be expelled from the council. Ay, and I'll move it, too,
by the two bulls that redeemed me!" [Footnote: Matthew Lyon, who very soon became much noted
as a leading partisan in the legislature of Vermont, and subsequently more so as member of
congress from Kentucky, having, as before intimated, been sold to pay his passage from Ireland
to Connecticut, where he landed, was afterwards redeemed by the payment of a pair of bulls
to the purchaser, by a gentleman of that state, for whom he was permitted to labor, at liberal
wages, till this novel kind of indebtedness was cancelled. And as this bold and singular man
entered upon the scenes of life as a successful freeman, he was fond of boasting of the romantic
manner in which he became one, while the expression, "By the two bulls that redeemed me," became
his favorite oath on all occasions.]

"I accept the terms," replied Allen, bowing pleasantly to the former. "Give me a room by myself,
pen, ink, paper, and a lamp, and I will abide the condition."

"For your lamp, Mr. Allen, as your task is to discover money where there is none, I advise
you to borrow the wonderful lamp of Aladin," gayly added Rowley, as the question was put, and
carried; and the council, in a half-serious, half-sportive mood, broke up, and separated for
the night.

At sunrise, the next morning, as had been proposed, the council punctually assembled to receive
the promised report of their committee. Most of them, from having lodged in the same house,
were aware that Allen had spent the whole of the intervening time on the business which had
been committed to his charge; for, hour after hour, during that important night, they had heard
the sound of his footsteps, as he continued to walk his solitary chamber, intensely revolving
in his teeming mind the vexed question, upon the decision of which he felt the last chance
of making a successful stand against the invaders of the state would probably depend. And this
and the expectation, which had somehow been generally raised, that he would present some feasible
plan for carrying out his proposals, the character of which no one could conjecture, caused
his appearance to be awaited with no little curiosity and solicitude. They were not left long
in suspense; for scarcely had the president called the council to order, before Allen came
in, holding in his hand an open sheet of paper, to which, as the yet undried ink showed, he
had just committed the result of his night's labor.

"Is the committee, appointed at adjournment last evening prepared to make his report?" asked
the president.

"Fully, your honor," promptly responded Allen, who accordingly then rose and said,--

"My report, Mr. President, consists of two parts. The first comprises the nomination of a list
of officers, from colonel to subaltern, for a regiment, to be styled The Rangers. The second
part involves the subject more particularly committed to me, and proposes the means of raising
and supporting them. As the first will be useless unless the second is adopted, I will submit
it without present reading, and proceed at once with the second and more important proposition,
which, after a long and patient consideration of every argument for and against the measure,
I have concluded to recommend to the council, as the best and most effectual means of securing
the desired end. And that proposition, for the sake of convenience, as regards the action of
the council on the principle involved, I have thrown into the form of the following resolution:--

"Resolved, That by specific decree of this council, and under regulations hereafter to be made,
the estates, both real and personal, of all those who have been, or hereafter may be, identified
as tories, aiders and abettors of the enemy, within this state, be confiscated for the military
defence thereof; and that so much of said estates as may be needed for the payment of the bounties
and wages of the regiment now proposed to be raised, be forthwith seized, and within ten days
sold at the post, for that purpose, by the officers appointed by this council to execute its
orders and decrees in that behalf."

The speaker, without offering any further remark in explanation or defence of the measure he
had reported, resumed his seat, and calmly awaited the expression of the council. But they
were taken by such complete surprise by a proposition at that time so entirely new in the colonies,
so bold and so startling in its character, that, for many minutes, not a word or whisper was
heard through the hushed assembly, whose bowed heads and working countenances showed how deeply
their minds were engaged in trying to grapple with the momentous subject, upon which their
action was thus unexpectedly required. At length, nowever, low murmurs of doubt or disapproval
began to be heard; and soon the expressions, "unprecedented step!"--"doubtful policy!" and
"injury to the cause" became distinguishable among the over-prudent in different parts of the
room when Matthew Lyon sprang to his feet, and, bringing his broad palms together with a loud
slap, exultingly exclaimed,--

"The child is born, Mr, President! My head has been in a continual fog, every hour since we
convened, till the present moment; and I could see no way by which we could even begin to do
all that the exigency required, without running against law, or distressing the people. But
now, thank God, I can see my way out. I can now see, at a glance, how all can be speedily and
righteously accomplished. I can already see a regiment of our brave mountaineers in arms before
me, as the certain fruits of this bold, bright thought of our sagacious and intrepid young
colleague. Unprecedented step is it? It may be so with us timid republicans but is it so with
our enemies, who are this moment threatening to crush us, because we object to receive their
law and precedent? How were they to obtain the lands of the half of Vermont, which, it is said,
they recently offered the lion-hearted Ethan Allen, if he would join them, but by confiscating
our estates? What has become of the estates of those in their own country, who, like ourselves,
have rebelled against their government? From time immemorial they have been confiscated. Can
they complain then, at our following a precedent of their own setting? Can they complain because
we adopt a measure, which, in case we are vanquished, they will not be slow to visit on our
estates, to say nothing of our necks? Can these recreant rascals themselves, who have left
their property among us, and gone off to help fasten this very government upon us, complain
at our doing what they will be the first to recommend to be done to us, if their side prevails?
Where, then, is the doubtful policy of our anticipating them in this measure, any more than
in seizing one of their loaded guns in battle, and turning it against them? Injury to the cause,
will it be?--Will it injure our cause here, where men are daily deserting to the British, in
belief that we shall not dare touch their property to strike a blow that will deter all the
wavering, and most others of any property, from leaving us hereafter? Will it injure our cause
here to have a regiment of regular troops, who will, perhaps, draw into the field four times
their number, in volunteers? If this be an injury, Mr. President, I only wish we may have a
few more of them; for, with a half dozen such injuries, by the two bulls, we would rout Burgoyne's
whole army in a fortnight. Yes, Mr. President, this measure must go; for it promises every
thing to cause, and threatens nothing that honest patriots need fear, and had I a hundred tongues,
they should all wag a good stiff ay for its adoption."

"A bold measure, boldly advocated!" next spoke Carpenter. "But as bold as it is, Mr. President,
I rise not to condemn it, but rather to say, that I am determined to meet it fairly, and without
fear; and if, when I get cool enough to trust myself to make a decision, the objections to
it appear no more formidable than they now do, I will give it my hearty support."

"If the public should call this a desperate remedy, they must recollect that it is almost our
only one," remarked Olin, in his cool, quiet manner. "Nothing venture, nothing have;--let us
go for it who dare!"

"Let us oppose it who dare!" warmly responded Lyon. "The measure will be a popular one; and
let it once be known among the people, as I promise gentlemen it shall be, that this proposition
was considerately recommended to us by a committee we appointed for the purpose--let this be
known, and who among us has nerve enough to stem the storm of popular indignation that will
burst on his head, for the timid and cowardly policy which led him to go against it?"

"Vermont," added Rowley--"Vermont was the first to show her sister states the way to take a
British fort; let her also be the first to teach them the secret of making tories bear their
proportion of the burdens of the war. I am already prepared to give the measure my support,
Mr. President."

Almost every member, in turn, now threw in a few observations. The doubts and fears of the
more cautious and wavering gradually gave way; and it soon became evident that the measure
had found too much favor with the council to be resisted. Lyon, with his rough and pithy eloquence,
had broken the ice of timidity at the right moment; and he and the originator of the measure,
at first the only unhesitating members of the assembly, perceiving the gathering current in
its favor, now warmly followed up their advantage; and, within two hours from its introduction,
the resolution was adopted. This was immediately followed by the passage of the decree named
in the resolution, specifying the names of those thus far fairly identified as openly espousing
the British cause in Vermont, and declaring their estates forfeited to its use. Allen's proposal
to raise a regiment of rangers was then, as a matter of course, unanimously carried, and the
officers he had nominated were, with a few alterations, as unanimously appointed. All were
now animated with a new spirit. Hope and confidence had taken the place of doubt and despondency
in their bosoms and the remainder of the day was spent in carrying out the details of their
plan, which all agreed should now be put into execution with the greatest possible promptitude
and secrecy. In this, as soon as the different appointments, made necessary for the execution
of the decree, were completed by the united action of the council, all the members, individually,
took an active part. And for many hours, they might have been seen sitting round the tables,
silently and intently engaged with their pens; some in drafting despatches to be sent to New
Hampshire and Massachusetts, some in writing confidential letters, unfolding their plans and
asking the co-operation of the leading men in the different parts of their own state, and some
in making out commissions for the military officers, or the commissioners and other officers
of confiscation, while others were out, scattering themselves about town, warily and cautiously
inquiring out prompt and trusty messengers, to be despatched, as soon as it was dark, simultaneously
and post-haste, to convey these important missives to their different destinations round the
country. And all being accomplished,--the blow struck, and the machinery put in motion,--the
council concluded to adjourn, to meet again in a few days at Bennington, the interim to be
spent by them in repairing to their respective spheres of influence among the people, and there
taking an active part in defending and explaining their measures, and assisting to carry them
into operation.

Such was the origin of those temporary tribunals in Vermont, subsequently termed courts of
confiscation, which formed a prominent feature in her early history, and which furnished, it
is believed, the first example of the exercise of this extraordinary power ever known in the
United Colonies during the revolutionary struggle. And whatever may have been the effects of
this retributive policy in other states, its results here were salutary and important. It put
an immediate stop to any further espousing of British interests, especially among men of property,
while, within the astonishingly short space of fifteen days, it brought a regiment of men into
the field, well armed and prepared for instant service,--thus securing those advantages to
the defenders of liberty, in the peculiar posture of their affairs in which it was introduced,
and giving that impetus to their military operations, without which the brilliant successes
that marked the ensuing campaign in Vermont could never have been obtained. Of this there can
scarcely be a doubt. And scarcely less doubt can there be, that the important measure in question
would not have been brought forward and adopted at the crisis, in which alone the advantages
it then secured could have been denied from us but for its sole projector, the sagacious, scheming,
and fearless Ira Allen.

Speculative writers have often amused themselves in tracing great events to small causes. And
in this they have oftentimes so wonderfully succeeded, as to show, beyond the power of man
to refute, some of the most trivial circumstances of life, considered by themselves, to have
caused the revolutions of empires. Were we to make out an instance of this character, to be
added to the many other remarkable ones which have been noted by the curious, it should be
done by tracing the independence of America to the measure which Allen so boldly projected,
as he walked his lonely chamber, on the eventful night we have described. The independence
of the colonies was, at that dark crisis, balancing, as on a pivot; and the success of Burgoyne
must seemingly have turned the scale against us. The success of Burgoyne, at the same time,
hung on a pivot also; and the victory of Bennington, with all its numberless direct and indirect
consequences, as now seems generally conceded, turned the scale of his fortunes when his success,
otherwise, could scarcely have been doubtful. But the victory of Bennington would never have
been achieved but for the decided and energetic movement of Vermont, which alone secured the
cooperation of New Hampshire, or, at least insured victory, when, otherwise, no battle would
have been rewarded. And that essential movement of Vermont would never have been made but for
the bold and characteristic project of Ira Allen.

All this, to be sure, is but supposition; but who can gainsay its truthfulness?

CHAPTER II.

  "Say what is woman's heart?--a thing
   Where all the deepest feelings spring;
   And what its love?--a ceaseless stream,
   A changeless star--an endless dream--
   A smiling flower, that will not die--
   A beauty and a mystery!"

While the scenes last described were occurring at Manchester, in the Council of Safety, whose
secret and unforeseen action was about to be felt in the remotest corners of the state, an
athletic, well-formed, though plainly-dressed young man, whose fortunes, in common with those
of hundreds around him, were suddenly and unexpectedly to be affected by the movements of that
body, might have been seen, in the evening twilight, moving, with slow and apparently hesitating
steps, across a new-mown field, towards a neat and commodious dwelling, situated on the main
road leading from the town just named, to the south, and near where it entered the then fast
increasing little village of Bennington. Though he wore no regular military uniform, or arms
that were visible, yet there was that in his gait, manner, and general appearance, which indicated
the recent occupation of a soldier, while the natural cast of his bold, manly features, and
the clear, calm, and steady expression of his fine countenance, all combined to show him a
man of coolness and courage; and that, consequently, the seeming timidity and indecision of
his present movements were attributable to some passing doubts respecting the issue of the
business on hand, or other causes of a similar character, rather than any general want of firmness
and resolution. After advancing within a stone's throw of the house, he turned into a clump
of small trees, which, extending along the outer border of an unenclosed garden to the north
of the establishment, had concealed his approach; and here taking a position that commanded
a view of the front and rear entrances of the house, he seemed to await some expected event,
with manifestations of considerable uneasiness and solicitude. In a few moments, a slight stir,
as of company taking leave, was heard in the front part of the house; and very soon a fashionably-dressed
personage of a somewhat swaggering deportment, accompanied with many of those supercilious
airs with which the colonial loyalists of the times often thought to dignify their carriage
among despised republicans, made his appearance in the yard, where, equipped for riding, stood
a stout, well-conditioned horse, which he approached and led out some distance into the road,
preparatory to mounting. He then paused, and, with a hasty glance around him, covertly drew
forth, from a concealed girdle apparently, a pair of good-sized pistols, and carefully examined
their flints and priming; after which he replaced them, and, vaulting into his saddle, rode
leisurely away along the road leading northward. In the mean time, the person first described
retained his position within his leafy concealment, where, unseen himself, he had seen and
watched from the first, with keen interest, all the movements of the other, whom, at length,
he seemed to recognize, with recollections which caused him to recoil, and his whole countenance
to contract and darken with angry and disquieting emotions. He was not allowed much time, however,
for indulging his disturbed feelings; for scarcely had the object of his annoyance disappeared,
before his attention was attracted by a slight rustling sound somewhere within the garden;
when, turning his head, the frown that had gathered on his brow suddenly gave place to a look
of joyful animation, as his eager eye caught a glimpse of the light, fluttering drapery of
a female, who, with soft, rapid tread, was gliding along the outer edge of the screening shrubbery
towards him. The next instant he was at her side, ardently grasping her half-proffered hand,
and tenderly gazing into her sweetly-confused countenance.

"How grateful," he began, after a broken salutation--"how grateful I should be for this obliging
attention to the note I sent you, soliciting a meeting which--"

"Which my gallant preserver of old will be pretty sure to misconstrue, I fear me," interrupted
the maiden, with a half-murmured, sportive laugh.

"No, Miss Haviland," he replied, too intent on a serious demonstration of his feelings to respond
in the same spirit--"no, I am not so presuming; nor do I wish to count on the former service,
which you so magnify, and which has induced you, perhaps, to grant this interview."

"In part, I confess," was the answer to this implied question.

"I suspected--I feared so," he rejoined, despondingly. "Would to Heaven you could have acted
entirely aside from that motive, and then I might have found cause to hope. But now," he added,
with suppressed emotion--"now--But O, how can I harbor the chilling thought of being doomed
to love without a return! Say, fairest and best, must this indeed be so?"

The downcast look and the quick-heaving bosom were the only reply; and the impassioned lover,
gathering courage even from these uncertain indications, proceeded:--

"Years, eventful years, have passed away, my dear Miss Haviland, since your face, like some
unexpected vision, first greeted my sight, and its image, at the same moment, as a thing not
to be resisted, sunk deep into my heart. And there, from that hour to this, it has constantly
remained--remained in spite of all my attempts to exclude it; for I struggled hard to banish
it, as I had so much reason to do. You were the daughter of wealth and prosperity--I the son
of poverty and misfortune; and, what was more revolting to my pride, you were found with my
political opponents--my oppressors--nay, in the closest connection, apparently, with my bitterest
foe. But with all the aid which these thoughts and associations were calculated to lend me,
I struggled in vain. And when I was driven, poor, sorrowing, and desperate, from my home, by
the wrongs and insults of this same man, of whose position towards you I was not left in doubt,
I carried that image with me. It would not be eradicated; it would not even fade; but became
more deeply impressed, and grew more and more vivid with time and change. In the stirring scenes
of military life into which I then entered,--in the hour of battle, the exhausting march, the
horrors of a prisonship, the perilous escape, and the lone wanderings through the wilderness,
till I again reached the soil of freedom,--in all these, the impress remained unweakened, constantly
presenting itself to my thoughts by day, and shaping my dreams by night. And it was this, when,
on my return, I came into this quarter, where I had learned our scattered troops were rallying,
and where I found myself near you--it was this that brought me to your father's dwelling--it
was this, which, in spite of the coldness of my reception by all but yourself, urged me to
the repeated visit, in which I was driven with insults from your house."

"Not by me, Mr. Woodburn," interposed the fair listener, in kindly and earnest tones--"not
by me, nor by my consent or sanctioning. And it was mainly to show you this that I was induced
to grant your request for this, on my part, I fear, imprudent meeting. No! O, no, sir, I have
never forgotten--I can never forget--to whom I am indebted for my life; and gratitude as well
as respect for his general character, will ever forbid aught but kind and courteous treatment
at my hands. And I hope you will make some allowance for my father, who feels so strongly that
the people, whose cause you espouse, are criminally wrong."

"I do make an allowance," responded Woodburn--"great allowance for his imbittered state of
mind towards the defenders of the American cause; but does that fully account for the course
he pursues towards me?"

"To be frank with you, sir, it does not," she replied, after some hesitation. "There are those
often with my father, who are not backward in fanning his prejudices, and perhaps in instigating
the undeserved treatment you have received. I may be unwise in saying this; but justice to
all, it appears to me, requires that you should be apprised of it. You will not surely make
use of this to embroil us?"

"Certainly not; but what you communicate is hardly news to me. I well understand that the principal
one of those to whom you allude is no other than the person who just rode away from your house."

"You saw him, then? I am thankful you did not come in collision with him; for he is a man you
must avoid. Yes, that was indeed Colonel Peters."

Colonel Peters! Colonel, did you call him? Has he, then, actually joined the British forces,
and received a commission for such a post in their army?"

"Yes; but I had supposed this was known, else I might have hesitated to disclose it, lest his
frequent visits here might implicate my father, who, I hope, may be induced to remain neutral
in this unhappy contest."

"Fear not, fair friend. No advantage shall be taken of this, through my means, to the injury
of your father. But, tell me, does that officious adviser of your father still urge a suit,
and plead an engagement, of which, I have inferred, you would not be sorry to be relieved?"

"He does," answered the maiden, sadly--"he does urge a suit, and insist on an engagement, of
which he knows I wish to be relieved."

"Why should he do this?"

"Perhaps he counts on the effect of events to reconcile me--events which he seems to expect
will shortly happen--the complete triumph of his cause, the disgrace, banishment, or death
of its cpposers, and his own elevation thereby to stations which, he thinks no woman will refuse
to share with him. He counts much also, probably, on the aiding influence of my father, who
feels warmly interested in his success, and believes with the other that he, who is so loyal,
while so many of his standing are otherwise, cannot fail of reaping a brilliant harvest of
rewards, which, with the connection they propose, will reflect lustre on our family."

"Then it does not occur to them," said Woodburn, with a smile at this specimen of that loyal
air-castle building in which the tories of the revolution seemed to have so extravagantly indulged--"it
does not occur to them that it is even possible these splendid schemes may fail, in the failure
of their cause in this country, which has thus, in anticipation, been parcelled out into dukedoms
and lordships, to reward its sanguine adherents?"

"One would think not, from their conversation on the subject," replied the other.

"And what thinks she, whom they would have so much interested in this great issue?" asked Woodburn,
encouraged to the question by the manner and tone of her last remark. "Has it never occurred
to her mind that their cause, as strong as they deem it, is destined to fail; that even this
vaunting army, which hangs so menacingly on our borders, may be swept away by the vengeance
of a wronged, an insulted, and now aroused people; and that this despised people have right
and Heaven on their side; and by the blessings of that Heaven, while they do battle in the
consciousness of that right, will yet triumph, and become an independent nation, to which even
her present haughty foe will do reverence?"

"It has," replied the maiden, warmly and with emphasis--"it has, Mr. Woodburn; and--why should
I attempt to conceal it?--and I have wished--for I could not help it, though against the feelings,
and, perhaps, the best interests of a generally kind parent--I have long secretly wished, and
even prayed, for your success; because I could not stifle the conviction of the truth of what
you assert respecting the wrongs of the American people, and the justice of their cause."

"Sabrey Haviland," exclaimed the surprised and delighted lover, "as long as I have respected
and loved you, I have never till this moment, known you--never half appreciated the worth of
your character!"

"What you may appreciate highly, sir, others may as highly condemn," she meekly responded.
"I have said more to you than I have ever expressed to human being; and I may be wrong--wrong
in saying it to you--wrong in saying it or believing it at all." "Wrong? O, no, no, noble girl!"
he rejoined, with increasing animation; "no, you are not wrong; you are right--right in your
convictions, right in the wish, the prayer, and the declaration. Men will honor your honest
independence, exercised against so much to bias and prejudice, so much to tempt and dazzle
you; and Heaven will approve and bless you. But with such sentiments," he added, in tenderly
expostulating accents--"with such sentiments, dear lady, will you doom me to plead my heart's
cause in vain? Will you still adhere to a lover active in the work of oppression which you
condemn, and reject his rival, equally active in the cause you approve and pray for?"

"I see my error, Mr. Woodburn," she replied, with an air of self-reproach and of slightly-offended
pride, which, however, gave way to kindly tones, as she proceeded; "I have unintentionally
helped you to an argument, while I am constrained to decide that no argument, so long as I
stand in my present position, must prevail with me. Do not, then, O, do not press me with questions
like these. You know not the extent of my perplexities, and I may not explain. Besides, are
these the times to engage in such affairs, when the next hour may lead to an eternal separation,
or place our respective destinies as wide as the poles asunder?"

"But will you not allow me even to hope for the future?" still persisted the lover.

"Why should I bid you tantalize yourself with hopes so likely to prove futile, when nobler
thoughts should engross you? Look, Mr. Woodburn," she said, pointing, with charming enthusiasm,
towards the distant summits of Manchester, then beginning to be dimly visible in the rays of
the rising moon, "cast your eyes northward! Beneath yon blue mountains is gathered the council
of your people. There also rolls the recruiting drum of your brave Warner, who needs men like
you; or if, as you intimated, you are waiting to engage in a different corps, which your council
is expected to raise, would not your attendance there be more worthily bestowed, than in adding
to the perplexities of one already so thickly surrounded with difficulties, and one who, to
your suit, cannot say yea, while she would be pained to say nay?"

"Cruel girl, but noble in your cruelty!" exclaimed Woodburn, with mingled disappointment and
admiration. "I will forbear to press my suit for the present, but not forever. I will heed
the lesson of patriotism you have given me, but only to remember my fair prompter with deeper
devotion."

"Hark!" said the other, starting; "I hear my father's chiding voice in the house inquiring
for me. I must go. Adieu, Mr. Woodburn. With this tendered hand of friendship and gratitude,
adieu."

"If it must be so, my precious, my beautiful one, farewell to you, also."

Lips uttered no more, but the mute pause that followed, while eye met eye, and hand lingered
in hand, was not meaningless. The fond lover was not permitted, however, to prolong the entrancing
moment, which, as the slightly-returned pressure of the small white hand, closely imprisoned
in his own, told him, had not been reluctantly vouchsafed him; for, quickly arousing herself,
the maiden broke from his clinging grasp, and tripped silenty away, leaving him gazing after
her retreating form, and listening to the soft and decreasing sounds of her light footsteps
upon the grass, till the jar of the closing door, to which she had directed her devious course,
made him feel that he was alone, and that the charm of the place was gone.

With a sigh, he turned from the spot, and soon gained the highway; when, taking the direction
in which his rival and foe had departed, he walked musingly onward, heedless alike of the cool
and balmly air of the evening, or the quietly reposing beauties which the light of a full moon,
now beginning to peer over the eastern hills, was gradually unfolding around him, and intent
only on the dreamy images with which love and his new-fledged hope seemed conspiring for a
while to amuse his willing mind. At length, however, a quickened pace, a firmer tread, and
a prouder bearing, showed that a different and less peaceful train of thought was springing
up within.

"So this evil genius of mine, it seems," he muttered, "who forever appears in my path to snatch
from me every prize I set my heart on, is secretly an officer in the British service, commissioned,
probably, to head a regiment of tories, whom he is now by his false statements and delusive
promises, attempting to gather from the weak and wavering of our overawed people. This must
be instantly made known. Heavens! what effrontery!--to be playing the spy under the garb of
pretended neutrality, and seducing away the deluded men under our very noses, to lead them
back to fall with fire and sword on their kindred and neighbors! And I am to be the particular
object of his vengeance, I presume, from the significant hint she gave me to avoid him. Avoid
him! He shall be spared much trouble to find me if that is what he wants. He is now the country's
foe, and lawful game with me. I would that I could meet him tonight--yes, this night; and if
I thought I could overtake him--stay, why can't this be done?--only three miles start, probably,
and on a moderate trot; while my horse is a fleet one, and--and--we will try it."

By this time he had reached a log house, and barn of the same materials, which formed a small
opening on the left side of the road, and which was the residence of a recently-married and
here settled friend, in whose care he had left his horse before proceeding, as on the lady's
account he did, through the adjoining wood and Haviland's broad fields beyond, to the clandestine
interview with her that we have described. And now turning in towards this rude establishment,
he hastily proceeded, without calling at the house, directly to the barn, that was partially
enclosed by one of those close-laid, high, pole fences which the settlers usually constructed
round their barns to protect their flocks against the depredations of wild beasts. Within this
strong enclosure, the owner's cattle, consisting of a pair of oxen, cow, and two or three young
creatures of the same species, were now quietly chewing their cuds, with those occasional wheezing
grunts, which with them seem so indicative of animal enjoyment; while in one corner stood the
horse of which Woodburn was in quest--a little model of a creature, of a lively, attent appearance,
as now particularly manifested by a low, earnest, recognizing whinny, and by instantly starting
off, in a sort of half trot towards the bars of the enclosure, as her master came up on the
other side.

"Yes, yes, Lightfoot, you shall go now, and as fast as you desire, this time," responded the
latter, throwing himself over the bars, and patting the animal on the neck, as he passed on
to the barn for his saddle and bridle.

To equip his willing steed, examine the trusty pistols, which, like his foe, he carried about
his person, let down, pass through, and replace the bars, occupied him but a moment, and he
was about springing into his saddle, when he was hailed from the house.

"Halloo, there, Woodburn, is that you?" exclaimed a cheerly voice, as a stout-built, crank,
honest-looking young man, without hat or coat, came out of the door, and with a free and careless
air made his way towards the other; "but what is your hurry? Nothing unpleasant has befallen
you in your affair over yonder that makes you feel like being off in this sly and hasty manner,
has there?"

"No, Risdon, not quite so bad as that yet," replied Woodburn, taking all in good part.

"How much better, then? Come, Harry, I have taken stones enough out of your path, and thrown
them into that of your rival there, to earn a candid answer to such a question."

"True, sir; but you ask more than I am permitted to know myself. I can neither get accepted
nor rejected. She, however has given me fresh reason to admire her. She is no common girl,
friend Risdon."

"There is not a finer or fairer in all the Green Mountains; but what is that fresh reason you
name?"

"The discovery that at heart she is warmly with us in the good cause."

"That is, you hope, and therefore believe so, eh?"

"I have a much better reason than that, sir, for my assertion. She has, within this hour, told
me so herself."

"Ah! Well, then, it is indeed so; for Sabrey Haviland never uttered aught but perfect truth
and sincerity in all her life. Why, God bless her for her spunk and independence, living and
visiting, as she mostly has, from a child, in that circle of high-toned and bitter tories.
And it argues well for your suit, too, Woodburn, which till now I have considered rather an
unpromising one; for it tells me that she will struggle hard to get free from the fetters which
Peters and her father have fastened on her, and by which, counting on her high sense of the
sacredness of all promises and contracts, they suppose have secured her beyond the least fear
of escape."

"Do you allude to any thing other than the mere consent which she formerly gave to Peters's
proposals of marriage, and which, I had supposed, constituted the only engagement existing
between them?"

"Yes, a far stronger case, which I have learned by way of my wife, since I last conversed with
you on the subject."

"Ah! What is it?" eagerly demanded the lover.

"Why as I gathered it, the case was this," answered the other. "The old man, as well as Peters,
you know, must always do things, if possible, after the English custom; and both thinking more
of property than women, they got up a regularly-written marriage contract, or settlement, by
which one bound himself to give the other his daughter, with such and such a dowry, and the
other to marry the daughter, and settle such and such sums on her and her heirs, all to be
void in case the marriage fell through by fault of the girl. But to provide against this, they
made another part to the instrument for her to sign, in which they made her solemnly promise
and covenant to marry Peters, and none else; otherwise she was to forfeit her birthright in
her father's estate. This they somehow or other at last induced her to sign and seal thus binding
herself hand and foot forever, with but one single advantage, which, it seems, she had the
wit to get added to the contract before she would sign it; and that was, that the time of fulfilling
the contract, or day of the marriage, was to be left to her."

"What a detestable conspiracy for a father to enter into against the rightful liberty and happiness
of a daughter!" exclaimed Woodburn, after a pause, during which surprise and indignation kept
him silent. "That, then, explains the hints she has several times thrown out to me respecting
some peculiar trials and difficulties to which she was subjected. But was she of age when she
signed that paper?"

"No; but she probably, in her great scrupulousness, would long hesitate to break the engagement
on account of that, or the fraudulent means they doubtless used to draw her into the shameful
affair. Nevertheless, I would persevere. Her right to stave off the fellow, with her known
wish to get rid of him, may yet procure her an honorable release; or she may be brought to
take a different view about the binding nature of a promise obtained under such circumstances;
or, as a last resort, that paper may be got out of his possession by some scheme or other.
So I think you will worst him in the long run, in spite of his present advantages of the father's
help, his own wealth, and----"

"And his recent promotion," interrupted Woodburn, "which is to be the stepping-stone to the
dukedom of Vermont, the reward for betraying his country, and the glittering bait, which, in
anticipation, is already held out to this besieged, but bravely resisting, girl!"

"What do you mean, Woodburn?" bluntly said the other, in surprise.

"I mean," replied the former, "that Peters has lately received a colonel's commission in the
British service, and is even now secretly but actively engaged, I suspect, in trying to seduce
the people with British gold, and raise troops among us to co-operate with Burgoyne."

"You astonish me. Why, the hypocritical rascal has been giving out word about here, that, as
he had friends and interests on both sides, he had concluded to remain neutral! Are you sure
you have been correctly informed?"

"Quite sure. But while you may conjecture the source of my information, remember that it is
to work no injury to the family of my informer."

"Ay, I understand, now--'tis true, then; and you are correct, too, in your suspicions about
his present movements. That will account for the existence of the hard dollars that have so
strangely made their appearance about here within a few days. But will he be suffered to prosecute
his plans here among us? What better is he than a spy?"

"Nothing."

"He must be nabbed, then; and we will let him find his duke's coronet in a crow's nest, on
the limb of some old hemlock, to which we will soon have him dangling in the air, unless our
authorities wish to give him a more respectable gallows. What say you to that, Harry?"

"That you are not the first to think of it--that is, so far as to have him captured. He rode
away from Haviland's in this direction, and at a moderate pace, just as I, unperceived by him,
reached there, about an hour ago, on his way, doubtless, to one of the tory haunts in Manchester.
My mare has a fleet foot, Risdon; so you now understand why I was in a hurry to be off, don't you?"

"I do; but Heavens! Woodburn, you are not going to give chase alone?"

"Yes; no horse but mine probably could overtake him before he reaches his associates; besides,
since it was hinted to me that he would seek my life I am willing to give him a chance to take
it, where neither he nor I shall have help or witness."

"Are you armed?"

"With dirk and pistols, as he only is."

"A rather hazardous push, Harry. But go, and God prosper you to take him, and with him that
mischievous document. And one thing more: if you live to reach Manchester, tell that Council
of Safety, that if they don't do something soon, we, the people, will set up for ourselves
in war-making. I, for one, don't believe I can keep my hands off my rifle three days longer."

"Ay, ay," said Woodburn, springing into his saddle. "And now, Lightfoot, here is a loose rein
for you. Go!" he added, striking with his heels the body, and with his hands the mane of the
impatient animal, that, at these well-understood signs, gave an irregular plunge or two ahead,
and then shot off like an arrow up the road.

CHAPTER III.

Leaving Woodburn to the hot and eager pursuit that patriotism and private animosity had prompted
him to undertake, we will now precede him a few miles on the road, for the purpose of introducing
and accompanying another old acquaintance, who was also destined to become an actor in the
wild and stirring adventures of the night.

Near the southern confines of Manchester, about nine o'clock, the same evening, a youth of
the probable age of twenty, of a sandy complexion, and of a rather slight, but evidently tough,
wiry frame, with a short rifle on his shoulder, and powder-horn and ball-pouch slung at his
back, was making his solitary way on foot along the main road towards the town just mentioned.
As he now reached the Batenkill, where the stream, here first beginning to find a more peaceful
flow, after its headlong descent from the Green Mountains, intersected the road, he suddenly
paused and began to muse, with the air of one who has been struck by some new thought tending
to divert him from his settled purposes; and, slowly passing on to the bridge, which, after
the rude construction of the times, had been thrown across the river at this place, he took
a seat on one of the side-timbers, or binders, as they were usually termed, and, in accordance
with an old and inveterate habit, generated probably by the peculiar circumstances of his early
life, began to commune with himself aloud.

"I wonder what this new business is they want you should do Bart? Harry said it was a secret
matter when he handed over the paper," he continued, pulling out and abstractedly unrolling
a small wad of white paper, "a kinder private commission, or something, which he would explain
about, after I had gone and got his letter to the girl, as he met me on my way back. But why
don't he meet me fore this time? It's pesky strange he should hang back in a woman affair so!
Why, he would go--like enough has gone--but then how could he miss me? O Lord, Bart, what a
stupid pup! He passed you when you was napping it in the bushes at that cool spring! I'll bet
my old hat on't! Well, we shan't see much more of him to-night, likely, seeing it is love he's
doing, and such a moon as this holds the candle; and we may as well be trying to find out this
business without him. So let's be digging out what the paper says. Harry and the rest of 'em
don't know I can read writing; but I can, when driv to it; though I think we won't let 'em
know that, Bart; for no knowing what cunning things we may find out if they don't mistrust
it. Now let's look. Why, I can see as plain as day!' he added, holding up the writing to the
bright moonlight, and beginning to spell out the well-known bold and distinct characters of
the secretary of the council, as follows:--

"TO BARTHOLOMEW BURT:--

"You are hereby appointed by the Council of Safety to go through this and the neighboring towns,
bordering on the British line of march; to spy out the resorts of the tories; to mark and identify
all inimical persons; to gain all the information that can be obtained respecting the movements
of the enemy at large; and make report, from time to time, to this council or some field officer
of our line.

"IRA ALLEN, Secretary." [Footnote: Those who may doubt the probability that such a commission
would be issued by this body, would do well to consult that part of the journal of their proceedings,
at this period, which has been preserved and published, in which will be found several similar
ones, to serve as specimens of the many contained in the part that was lost, and to show how
searching were the operations of these vigilant guardians of the cause of liberty in Vermont,
and how various the instruments they made use of to effect their objects.]

"Good! grand!" exclaimed the excited soliloquist, starting up and snapping his fingers in high
glee. "This will be a great thing for you, Bart. Yes, and then how gentlemanly and respectful-like
it sounds to be called Bartholomew, in that way! Bart, we'll go it for them; and have a touch
of the trade this very night, if you please. But where shall we begin? Let's see, now. Why,
there's old mother Rose's haunt up the great road here, where, I do think, she must hatch out
tories, same as a hen does chickens, they are so thick about there. Then there's Josh Rose
courting that up and a coming sort of girl you saw at Howard's t'other day, when you called
with Harry for a drink of water. Now wouldn't the fellow be apt to let out secrets there that
we could get hold of, and put us on some good scent? Ah! that's it; so now up the river for
Howard's, as a beginning, hit or miss, Bart."

While this singular genius is proceeding on his proposed destination, in the hope of accomplishing
something to show himself worthy of the curious trust that had been so unexpectedly reposed
in him, we will occupy the breathing spot, thus afforded in our narrative, in apprising the
reader, more definitely than we have yet done, of the main incidents that had marked the checkered
fortunes of the two adventurers whom we have now again brought upon the scene of action, since
we left them.

When Woodburn and Bart left the state, under the circumstances described in the closing chapters
of our first volume, they proceeded directly to Cambridge, where the revolutionary army was
then gathering for the siege of Boston, enlisted, for two years, into the continental service;
and actively participated in all the most important movements of the army in the campaign that
immediately succeeded. They were at Bunker Hill, on that memorable day of fire and blood, so
glorious for the yeoman patriots of New England, and so fearful for her foes,--

  "When first, as at Thermopylae,
  The battle shout of freemen rose;
  Firm as their mountains, and as free,
  They nobly braved encountering foes."

And in the following autumn, they, in the same company, in which Woodburn, for bravery and
good conduct, had been made a subaltern officer, marched with that division of the army which
Arnold, with almost unequalled energy and fortitude, and amidst privation and suffering untold,
led through the snow-clad wilderness of morass and mountain, to the distant Quebec. And there,
in the onset, in which the high-souled Montgomery fell, they were together cut off from their
company and made prisoners; when, after having, for nearly a year and a half, endured the sufferings
of a British prison-ship, they together escaped at Halifax, wandered, half naked and starving,
through the seemingly interminable forests of Brunswick and Maine, to the American settlemens,
and finally reached home; not there, however, long to repose, but soon to repair, with yet
unbroken spirit, to the new scene of action, at which their countrymen were beginning to rally
to meet the formidable invasion of the hitherto victorious Burgoyne.

We will now resume the thread of our narrative. A walk of twenty or thirty minutes brought
Bart to the log tenement of Howard, who was a soldier in the continental service, now absent
on duty, having left his house and business in charge of his wife a woman no less noted, in
her neighborhood, for energy in conducting her domestic affairs, than for the patriotic spirit
with which she espoused the American cause. She and her daughter, a rustic beauty of eighteen,
of keen perceptions, and even rare good sense, when her frolicsome disposition would allow
her to exercise it, were now the only permanent inmates of this secluded cabin, which consisted
of but two rooms, with a front entrance leading through an entry into either of them, and another
door at the end of the house opening into the one usually occupied by the family as both sitting-room
and kitchen.

"A light in both rooms, by the pipers!" exclaimed Bart, as, after having cautiously approached,
he paused to reconnoitre the house. "The fellow is there at his traps, as sure as a gun! Now
what's to be done, Bart? 'Twon't do to go in and show yourself, and have that torified scamp
carry away word that you are mousing round the country nights, will it? No, but I'll tell you
what, if it want for the name of sneaking and evesdropping, we would creep round back of the
room where they be, and hark through the cracks; like enough get a peep, and so learn something.
But such things they expected of you, didn't they, Bart? Must be so, I think. Then suppose
we throw the name and blame of it on the council, and try it, mister?"

Taking a wide sweep round the house, Bart soon approached that part of it, on the back side,
in which he rightly conjectured the young people were sitting; and gliding up to the wall with
steps as noiseless as those of a mousing fox, he discovered a crevice between the logs, from
which the moss calking had fallen out so as to permit a small pencil of light to escape. Guided
by this, he quickly gained, after applying his eye to the aperture, a distinct view of the
couple within, and was enabled, at the same time, to catch every word of their variously modulated
conversation. They were seated at different sides of a light-stand, on which a candle was burning,
she assiduously engaged, to all appearance, with her needle on some light sewing work, and
he diligently, with his penknife, on a pine chip, which he was essaying to shape into a human
profile, that of his mistress, it might be surmised from the sly glances with which he seemed
occasionally to scan her features. Though now dressed in his smartest fustian, he yet appeared
awkward and ill at ease; while the timid and hesitating air, with which he seemed to regard
his fair companion, indicated much conscious uncertainty respecting the place he might hold
in her affections. She, on the contrary, seemed quite self-possessed, and wore the air of one
not particularly solicitous about pleasing, which gave her as much advantage over him in her
manner as she obviously possessed in her person; for, besides a good form and a wholesome roseate
bloom, she had one of those polyglot countenances which seem almost to supersede the necessity
of speaking--a trait she very prettily exhibited while listening to the forced hints and innuendoes
of her lover's conversation, as she occasionally lifted her head, now with a blush, now with
a smile, and now with a frown, that caused his eyes to drop to the floor as quick as those
of a rebuked schoolboy. Thus far, she had not opened her lips; but now, as her suitor, turning
in his chair, brought a hitherto shaded arm into view, and displayed upon his sleeve a common
brass pin, (usually denominated in those days the Canada pin, as this article, then almost
excluded from the toilet by the war, rarely found its way into this section except through
the intercourse of the tories with that province,) her attention was suddenly excited; and
turning a sharp and searching look upon him, she said,--

"Where have you been lately, Josh?"

"Why?" he replied, evidently surprised at the question and manner of the girl.

"That, sir," she responded, significantly pointing to the pin. "Such articles don't get here
but in one way, in these hard times, which compel us to put up with thorns for pins, and half
tories for beaux," she added, with a meaning and roguish look.

"Won't you accept it, Vine?" he said, obviously disconcerted but pretending not to understand
her allusions.

"Not unless you tell me honestly how you got it, sir," she replied, decisively.

"O, picked it up somewhere; don't remember now," he evasively answered.

"That, now, is a thumper, I know," she rejoined, with a pretty toss of the head. "But you don't
put me off so. The fact is Josh, I suspect you have been among the tories to-day. Now be honest,
and tell me, sir."

And for the next ten minutes the determined girl plied her reluctant and perplexed companion,
by all the means which her ingenuity could invent, to accomplish her object; teasing, coaxing
and threatening by turns, till, being unable to resist any longer, he replied,--

"Well, I will tell you; and it can't do any hurt either, for they will all be out of reach
before morning."

"Who will be out of reach?" eagerly demanded the other.

"The men that my brother Samuel enlisted. You knew he had got a captain's commission in General
Burgoyne's army, I 'spose."

"We heard so; but has Captain Samuel Rose been in town to-day?"

"Yes; for I may as well tell the whole, now I've begun. The captain has been all day at the
house of brother Asa Rose, who lives out of the way, there, in the woods, over beyond the great
road, you know. Well, he had agreed to meet all he had enlisted in this section there at sunset,
and lead them off to the British camp, after people were abed. I was there just before dark,
and saw them; sixteen in all, besides the captain, all armed and equipped, and he in full uniform;
and he looks complete in it, too, I tell you."

"But what was you amoung them there for?"

"O, I wanted to see Sam, and bid him good-by, you know, as he was going off, never to come
back, for aught I knew; that was all, upon honor, now."

"Perhaps it was; but one thing I wish you to understand, Josh Rose, and that is, if you take
up for that side of the question, openly or secretly, your visits here----"

"O, I shan't; no notion on't, not the least in the world; so don't worry; though candidly,
Vine, I don't believe it's much use for your folks to think of standing out any longer. Why,
hundreds are joining the British every day, and what will be left, in a short time, can do
nothing towards stopping such an army as Burgoyne's."

"What are left will be apt to try it, I think, sir."

The subject was now dropped; and the girl, after a thoughtful pause, commenced on a theme more
agreeable to her suitor, and for a short time, was unusually sociable and gracious; when she
rose, and, carelessly remarking she must be excused a moment, left the room, and passed out
through the front door, with noise enough in opening and closing it to leave the other in no
doubt as to the direction of her exit.

"Well, Bart, what do you think of that?" whispered our listener to himself, as now, on the
departure of the girl from the room, he withdrew from his peeping-hole. "Now, I pretend to
say, I wouldn't take a gold guinea for what we have got through that crack, nor two either,
if our legs will carry us to the village and rally help quick enough to have that batch of
tories nabbed before they are off. But let's jest edge along against the mother's room, and
see if there is any discovery to be made there, before we start."

Being equally fortunate in finding an opening into the room to which his attention was now
directed, Bart cautiously peered in; when his eye soon fell on the solitary occupant, a fine,
resolute-looking matron, quietly employed in knitting by the light of a torch stuck in one
of the stone jambs of the broad fireplace. He, however, had scarcely time to note these circumstances
before the door was softly opened, and the girl who had just left the other room entered on
tiptoe, and whispered in her mother's ear something that seemed to produce an instant effect
on the hitherto sedate and listless countenance of the latter; for, starting to her feet, she
stood gazing at the other with a flashing eye, and listening with the keenest interest, as
some further particulars were added to the communication.

"Are you sure he was not fooling you?" said the mother.

"Very sure," replied the daughter, significantly holding up the Canada pin.

"Well, Vine," rejoined the former, with the air of one whose resolution is taken, "you whip
back to your post the same way you came; and see that you keep him here till--say about midnight,"
she added, exchanging a meaning glance with the daughter, whose hand was already on the latch
to depart.

No sooner had the intermingling tones of conversation in the other room apprised the woman
that her daughter had there joined the unsuspecting suitor, than, hastily seizing bonnet and
shawl, she noiselessly left the house and glided out into the road. After hesitating a moment
here, respecting the course she should take, apparently, she made up to the log-fence enclosing
an adjoining field, threw herself over it with the lightness of a boy, and, striking off directly
west, almost flew over the ground till she reached the boundaries of their little opening;
when she fearlessly plunged into the dark and pathless recesses of the wood lying between her
and the main road, to which she was evidently directing her course.

"There! just as I told you," muttered Bart, who, inwardly vexed that the secret he had been
hugging, as exclusively his own should be shared by another, for fear measures might be taken
to deprive him of the sole honor and profit he had promised himself of communicating it, had
been jealously noting what had occurred. "Just as I told, Bart; the old woman has got your
story, and there she goes, streaming off with it, like the house afire, for the great road,
through woods, swamp, and all! Well, it's too late to try to stop her now, to save her the
trouble of going, cause you'd frighten her, likely; besides, she'd find out you'd been listening.
But we'll follow and keep track of her; may be she'll get lost, and we can cut by her; or may
be we can seem to come kinder accidentally on her, and contrive to get employed to do her errand,
and so let her go back."

With this resolution, he immediately gave chase; and by occasionally pausing, after entering
the forest, to listen to the rustling of her garments as the intrepid woman rushed through
the tangled thickets on her way, or the cracking of dry twigs under her rapid tread, he was
enabled to trace her course and keep within hearing distance, though not without exertions
which drew forth many an exclamation of surprise at the speed with which, at such a time and
place, she got over the ground. At length, they both reached the opening on the other side
of the forest opposite to a good-sized house on the main road.

"I vags," exclaimed Bart, pausing and wiping the perspiration from his face with his sleeve,
as he emerged from the wood, "if the perlite Frenchman, they tell of, who thought women had
no legs, had followed this one through a mile-swamp at the rate she has gone, he would think
a little different about the matter, I guess. But never mind the tramp, Bart, but still keep
your eye on her. There she goes smack into that house over yonder, which is--let's see, now--Why,
that is Major Ormsbee's, who, I remember now, Harry told me, was her brother. Well, Bart, seeing
you are fairly beat in this business, let's work along over into the road against the house,
and see what comes of it."

Scarcely had Bart gained his proposed situation in a nook of the fence, before the major, followed
by his son, came bustling out into the yard.

"Jock!" he said, hastily turning to his son, "you run to the barn, and saddle and bring out
my horse, while I slip over to Captain Barney's. But who have we here?" he added, espying and
approaching Bart. "Who are you, friend?"

"Well, you may call me any thing but a tory and I won't complain, major."

"That's right. O, I believe I know you now--the comical chap I have seen with Woodburn, at
Warner's encampment All right. Glad you happen here just at this time--we have business on hand."

"I know it."

"Know it! how? You didn't come with my sister?"

"No; after her; but got at the wrinkle about the gang down yonder before she did; and am now
on my way to the council, or the camp, with the news."

"That I propose to do myself. I have a fleet horse, and it will be best I should go with the
news myself. Besides, I wish to put you, with the few others I can raise hereabouts, on the
track at once. You shall lose nothing by it; so turn in here, and go with me."

Content with this assurance of an officer known to be in the confidence of the council, and
quite willing to make one in the expected affray, Bart cheerfully complied. And the two hurried
on to the house the major had named; where, fortunately, they found not only the owner, but
another fearless patriot, by the name of Purdy, to both of whom the news just received was
communicated; when a hasty plan was devised among them for the capture of Captain Rose and
his band of recruits, who, it was supposed, had not yet left the neighborhood, even if they
had started from their place of rendezvous.

The dwelling of Asa Rose, which had been selected by the tory captain as a secluded and safe
rallying-point for his band, was situated in the wood, about three fourths of a mile west of
the main road, and the residence, thereon, of the old widow Rose, who has been already mentioned,
and who was the mother of a hopeful brood of either open or secret loyalists, as their father,
an extensive land-owner, who died about the beginning of the war, was before them. This old
establishment of the Rose family, well known through the country as the harboring-place of
the disaffected, was a little over a mile from the bridge over the river, at the south, and
about half that distance from the residence of Major Ormsbee, at the north, where our handful
of spirited friends were now rallying; while from the road, about half way between the two,
diverged the path, which wound round south-westerly to Asa Rose's, and from which the tories
were expected to emerge on their way out of the neighborhood.

"Here comes Jock with my horse," said the major, taking die reins from the boy, a sturdy youth
of sixteen, who had not forgotten to bring his gun with him. "Well, captain," he continued,
leaping into his saddle, "you understand the arrangement; three of you to take the path to
their rendezvous, then to go on to old mother Rose's, and, if they are there, give the signal:
the long howl of a dog, remember; but if they are not there, to join the rest, and scout round,
watch and delay them while I, on my way, start out Pettibone and others, and send them directly
through the woods to Asa Rose's to get into the rear All understand, do you?"

"Ay, ay, major."

"Well, then, God prosper you all, till I can get on with the platoon of Warner's boys for the
rescue."

So saying, the major dashed off at full speed towards the village; while Barney and his men,
with no less spirit, hurried on to their respective destinations, in the opposite direction.
The place where the latter were to separate being soon reached, appearances examined, and no
discoveries made, the captain, with Purdy and young Ormsbee, struck off from the road, and
proceeded cautiously along the bushy outskirts of the path before mentioned as leading to the
supposed rendezvous, leaving to Bart the task of going on and reconnoitring the old establishment
on the main road, at which, it was believed, the tories would be sure to call, on their way
out, to take a last treat from mother Rose's ever-ready bottle, and perhaps some provisions
from her cupboard, to invigorate them for their long night march to the British camp. A short
walk now brought Bart in close vicinity to the house he was appointed to reconnoitre; when,
gliding silently along under cover of the fences, tall weeds, and other screening objects,
he quickly made a circuit round the buildings, contriving, as he did so, to peer into the barns,
sheds, and even into most of the rooms of the capacious old dwelling. He perceived, however,
no indications of the presence of any but females about the establishment; though, from the
movements of these, and especially those of the old woman, who was busily engaged in cutting
up large quantities of bread and cheese, and in replenishing her junk bottles, he became satisfied
that the company, of whom he was in search, were shortly expected. Having made these observations,
he retired from the house, crossed over the road into the opposite field, and was marking out
a course for himself through the wood, which would intersect the path taken by his companions,
and enable him to join them somewhere near the tory rendezvous, when his ear caught the clattering
of horse-hoofs, approaching, at a furious pace, up the road from the south, And so rapid was
the advance of the coming horseman, that Bart had scarcely time to gain the covert of a clump
of shrubbery standing by the fence, over against the house, before the former made his appearance,
and, turning into the yard, galloped up to an open window, and addressed a hasty inquiry to
the mistress of the house; when, hardly waiting for the negative reply that appeared to be
given, he suddenly wheeled about, and, regaining the road, pursued his course with renewed speed.

"Why!" exclaimed Bart in surprise, as he caught a view of me man's features; "as sure as a
gun, it is Harry's old troubler, that he thought he'd killed once, and felt so guilty about
it, till he heard he didn't. But what can the fellow be up to here, in such a hurry, just at
this time? Don't like the looks on't, exactly, Bart, hasn't this tall tory got wind of our
movement, somehow, and come on to warn the gang, that, not finding here, he has gone to meet?
Let's be off and try to trace him. But hark! Do you hear that? Another coming from the same
quarter! yes, and scratching gravel too, like Mars, I should think, by the way his horse's
feet strike the ground! Here he comes! What! it is, by mighty--it's Harry and Lightfoot in
full chase! Go it, Lightfoot! Catch him, Harry! Stuboy! stuboy!" he added, in low, eager shouts
of exultation, as the recognized horseman passed, like a flash, by his place of concealment.

Springing forward to a small elevation in the field, which commanded a broken view of the road
to the path before described, and even a small portion of the latter, Bart tasked both eye
and ear to the utmost, in trying to trace the dimly-discerned forms of the receding horsemen,
now obviously but a short distance asunder, his object being to ascertain whether Peters would
keep on in the main road, or, as he suspected his intention to be, strike into the path to
Asa Rose's, and try to reach the tories before he should be overtaken. For one moment, in which
he lost sight of both pursuer and pursued, Bart stood in doubt; but the next, the changing
direction of the still audible sounds, and the slight glimmerings of the sparks from the horse's
hoofs, now seen extending out in a line nearly at right angles to the course they had been
pursuing, sufficiently apprised him that his suspicions were correct. Waiting, therefore, no
longer than to ascertain this, he turned and plunged into the wood on his left; and taking
the course he had already decided on for joining his companions, and being now incited to his
utmost exertions of speed by his anxiety to reach the other road in time to warn Woodburn of
the trap into which his antagonist was doubtless intending to draw him at the tory rendevous,
or to be ready to lend any needed assistance in case a collision took place between them before
reaching it, he made his way through the opposing obstacles of the thickets with a rapidity,
probably, that a wild Indian could not have equalled, till he suddenly found himself in the
path of which he was in quest, within a few rods of the small opening where stood the suspected
log-tenement of Asa Rose. His first act now was to stoop down and examine the soft ground in
the road, to ascertain whether Peters and his pursuer had passed the place. A moment's inspection,
however, confirming him in the negative, he rose and bent a listening ear in the direction
of their expected appearance; but no sounds reached him indicative of their approach. While
standing here in doubt respecting the course next to be pursued, his attention was attracted
by a commotion at the house; when, stepping forward towards the edge of the opening, he caught
a glimpse of the whole body of the tories, with their leader at their head, just leaving the
house and moving silently, and with a quick step, in the road towards him. Stealing softly
away from his post of observation, he retreated rapidly along the path, some hundred yards
into the wood; when he fortunately encountered Barney and his two men, to whom he hastily communicated
all the discoveries he had made since he left them.

Fearing, from the non-appearance of Peters and his pursuer, of whom, strangely, nothing had
yet been seen or heard, that the former had given the latter the slip in some by-path, which
would enable him to reach the tories in the rear, or otherwise apprise them of the danger of
proceeding, Barney instantly adopted the bold resolution of attempting the immediate capture
of the whole band by stratagem, trusting to the firmness and ingenuity of himself and his men
to keep, or get them forward, till the expected reenforcement should arrive.

"We must multiply ourselves, and then act according to circumstances," he said, after apprising
his men of his project, which they eagerly seconded.

"I will multiply into a platoon of ten, and be their orderly, if you will let me have my own
way in the managing of 'em, captain," said Bart, entering with great spirit into a plan in
which his peculiarities so well fitted him for taking a leading part.

"Well, then," replied the other, "take a station in the bushes five or six rods ahead; the
rest of us will take our coverts here, on different sides of the road. You must all act for
yourselves, and on the hints of the moment; but I will take the lead, and give you such clews
as the case may require."

Scarcely had this fearless little band settled themselves in their respective stations, before
the tories, marching in close Indian file, made their appearance, and came forward wholly unsuspicious
of danger. They were permitted to advance unmolested till they were nearly all between the
two points of ambush; when Captain Barney, stepping partly out from his concealment presented
his gun, and exclaimed,--

"Stand! Surrender, or die!"

"Halt!" cried the surprised, though not frightened, tory captain, who was not only a fine-looking,
but cool and capable young officer--"halt, till we see what all this means."

"You will soon find out what it means, unless you surrender,'" rejoined Barney, in a bold and
confident tone. "I give you one minute to decide. Attention there!" he continued, as if addressing
a numerous band of concealed forces--"attention there, right, left, and front platoons! Every
man at his station and ready for the word!"

Purdy and Ormsbee now made a simultaneous movement in the bushes, on the different sides of
the road, by stepping about, hitting their guns against the trees, and thrusting out the muzzles
at various openings towards the enemy; while, at the same time, the clicking sounds, as of
the irregular cocking of a dozen muskets, with as many distinct movements of men, apparently,
were heard in the direction of Bart's concealment in front.

"Stand to your arms!" exclaimed Rose, to his men, who now began to show signs of fear and uneasiness.

"Don't all take aim at the captain, you fools!" shouted Bart, from his covert, to his men of
straw; "don't do that, I tell you! There's enough of 'em to furnish each of you a separate
mark, nearly. There, that looks more like it! All cocked and ready?"

"Hold up there, Sergeant Burt!" cried Barney; "don't fire yet. Let us spare their lives if
we can. Purdy," he continued, turning to the man concealed on his right, "you may give the
signal, now, for the reserve platoons, in front and rear, to advance, and close up on the road.
The minute is nearly out, and I perceive we have got to make a demonstration before they will
surrender."

The signal howl was then accordingly given, and, to the great joy of the assailants, immediately
answered by Pettibone, who, having reached his destination in the rear of the house, and seen
the tories decamping, was now, with another man, cautiously advancing towards the scene of
action in the wood; while nearly at the same moment, as it strangely happened, the sharp reports
of three pistols, fired in quick succession, rang through the forest a short distance on the
road to the north. The noise of fire-arms which, to the assailants, portended a rencounter
between Peters and Woodburn, and filled them with anxiety for the fate of the latter, was token
by the tories as an answer of the signal from the pretended corps in front, and so completed
their dismay that some of them threw down their arms, and began to cry out for quarter.

"The minute is out; shall we fire, Captain Barney?" exclaimed Bart, in a tone of impatience.

"Your answer, Captain Rose," sternly demanded Barney--"your answer this instant, or----"

"I yield," said the reluctant tory leader--"We surrender ourselves prisoners of war."

"'Tis well, sir," responded the former. "Lay down your arms, then, here in the road, advance
twenty paces, and wait further orders."

While this order, which was thus given for the double purpose of enabling the victors to get
between the tories and their guns, and to give time for Pettibone and his associate to come
up, was being carried into effect, Bart, who had been burning with impatience for a chance
to go to the assistance of his endangered friend. Woodburn, slunk noiselessly from his post,
and made his way, with all possible speed, towards the spot from whence the noise of the firing
appeared to proceed.

But let us now return to note the issue between the belligerent horsemen. Woodburn having come
in sight of his antagonist soon after crossing the river, and the latter then taking the alarm,
the chase had proceeded, as witnessed by Bart, till the parties struck into the by-road leading
to the tory rendezvous; when the former, concluding that Peters would not have turned in here
without the expectation of finding friends and defenders near, now redoubled his exertions
to overtake him, and bring on an encounter while it would have to be decided by individual
prowess, and before his foe should reach assistance to render the pursuit futile or dangerous.
But notwithstanding his efforts, he soon lost sight of the other in the short turns of the
winding and thickly-embowered path which they soon entered. Expecting, however, that the next
turn in the road would reveal the object of his pursuit, be dashed ahead some distance; when,
becoming satisfied that his antagonist had given him the slip by riding out of the road into
some nook or side-path in the wood, he retraced his way nearly to the opening, vainly endeavoring
to discover the concealment of the fugitive. Vexed and disappointed at being thus balked, Woodburn
was on the point of giving up the chase when he caught a glimpse of the other, emerging from
a thicket into the road, not a hundred yards distant, and setting off on a gallop in the direction
first taken. Incited to fresh exertion, Woodburn now shot forward after his flying foe with
a velocity which none but a horse trained to the rough paths of the wood could equal, and which,
consequently, soon brought the parties in close vicinity of each other. Peters, now seeing
no further chance to escape, suddenly pulled out a pistol, and, turning in his saddle, discharged
it at Woodburn, who, wholly unharmed by the badly-aimed instrument, instantly returned the
fire. The bullet of the latter, grazing the person of the former, entered the head of his startled
and rearing horse, just back of the ears, and, after two or three fearful plunges onward, brought
him to the ground. Leaping from his falling horse, the desperate loyalist gained his feet and
discharged another pistol at Woodburn; when, perceiving his opponent still unhurt, and about
to make a rush upon him, he leaped over the body of his dying horse, still floundering in the
edge of the bushes, and, in the noise thus occasioned, and in the screening smoke of his own
fire, made good his escape into the forest.

"Come back, miscreant! coward!" shouted Woodburn, dismounting, and leaping forward to the place
where the other had disappeared--"come back, and decide your fate or mine."

But the new-made tory colonel, who was more a coward from conscience than nature, in the present
instance, perhaps, did not see fit to accept the challenge for a further personal combat. And
Woodburn, judging that any attempt to pursue him in the woods would be useless, reluctantly
gave up the chase, and turned to go back to his horse; when Bart, running up and peering an
instant at the dying horse and then at his friend, rushed by the latter, and, throwing himself
on the neck of his loved pony, fell to hugging and fondling her in an ecstasy of delight.

"O Lightfoot! Lightfoot!" he exclaimed; "lucky divil that you are, not now to be sprawling
and kicking, like your tory brother there in the bushes! Yes, that you are, Lightfoot; and
you shall have an oat-supper to-night that would make a horse, laugh, for catching up with
the rapscallion."

"Bart!" said Woodburn, in surprise; "how did you get wind of this? But no matter. You have
come too late."

"Know it--couldn't help it, though--had other fish to fry first, that musn't cool. Captain
Rose and sixteen other tory prisoners are on the road here, just below."

"Prisoners! how? By whom taken?"

"O, Captain Barney, and Bart, and I, and Mr Stratagem and one or two others"

"What, only three or four of you to seventeen?"

"No; I was a flanking party of ten in the bushes, and sergeant of 'em--cocked all their guns
for 'em, by cocking and uncocking my own--talked for 'em all, out of seven corners of my mouth
at once, and kept 'em from firing till the word, you know. We heard your firing, and called
you the front-guard; and--and we took 'em--every dog of 'em."

"Bravoes! and no fool of an exploit on your part neither, Bart, if all this is so. But are
the prisoners secured? Had we not better hasten to join the escort?"

"No, two or three more came up just as I left, and there's enough now to manage in that quarter;
but the advance-guard here must be kept up till we get 'em out to the groat road, lest the
sneaks slink away-into the woods as they pass along the road and slip through our fingers as
your smart trooper did just now. Let's see--about eight strong we will have this guard, I guess.
I will be rank and file, and you shall be the officer. Come, mount! They'll be poking their
heads along in sight in a moment. Ay, there they come! Advance-guard!" he now added, in a loud,
commanding tone, as the slow tread of the prisoners, advancing along the devious and closely-embowered
path, became audible--"advance-guard! Attention the whole! Prepare to march!--march!"

And accordingly he then, as Woodburn mounted and rode slowly on behind, commenced the enactment
of his assumed part, always keeping within hearing, but never within distinct view, of the
prisoners; now jabbering in as many voices as the most expert ventriloquist, and now sternly
commanding, "Silence in the ranks!"--now getting up a seeming scuffle among his men, and now
driving them, with thwacks and curses, to their places; and now again softening his tones and
cracking jokes with his men,--Smith, Johnson, &c.,--who, in as many different tones, were heard
to return various sharp and comical retorts, which raised shouts of laughter and made the forest
ring with the sham merriment And thus he proceeded, to the secret amusement of the victors
all if whom perfectly understood the artifice, till they emerged from the woods into the open
grounds on the main road, when they were met by Major Ormsbee with a small detachment of regular
soldiers. The tories were then, for the first time, permitted to know the smallness of the
force that had captured them when, amidst showers of gibes and shouts of laughter, at their
expense, from the Green Mountain Boys, the chapfallen creatures were wheeled into the main
road, and hurried on at a lively pace to the village of Manchester, to be kept as prisoners
of war, or tried as spies, as the higher authorities there should see fit to decide. [Footnote:
This band of tories were, the next day after their capture, marched to Arlington, where the
question was raised, and sharply discussed, whether they should be considered as prisoners
of war, or tried as spies, the latter being insisted on by Mathew Lyon, and some others of
the more bold and ardent friends of the American cause, who declared that Captain Rose, at
least, should be tried and hung as a spy. A jury, however,--Eli Pettibone, Esq., presiding
as civil magistrate,--was allowed the prisoner; when, more probably, from sympathy for the
manly but misguided young officer, whom they had known as a pleasant neighbor, than from want
of proof, he was acquitted as a spy, and, with the rest of his band, removed to Northampton
jail as prisoner of war. Considerable favor, also, seems to have been extended to the other
brothers, some of whom married into whig families, through whose influence, it is said, they
retained their estates, none of the extensive Rose property being confiscated, except that
of Captain Samuel Rose, which is now the residence of the Hon. J. S. Pettibone, from whom these
particulars have been obtained, his father being one of the captors and his uncle the magistrate,
above named.]

"Captain Woodburn!" exclaimed the clear, animated voice of one coming out of the door of the
honored tavern before described, in the village of Manchester, as the person thus addressed,
who had just arrived with those escorting the prisoners, was describing the capture to a crowd
gathered round him in the yard--"Captain Woodburn, your most obedient! I am glad my patience
in waiting for your arrival is rewarded by the good news which Powell, our landlord here, has
just told us you bring. But come, sir, a word in your ear, if you please."

Woodburn turned and confronted the bright and smiling countenance of Ira Allen, who was beckoning
him from the crowd.

"Certainly, Mr. Allen; but why honor me with that appellation?" responded the former, stepping
aside with the ardent young secretary.

"Because I have the warrant for so doing in my pocket--a captain's commission for you, my dear
sir, if you will believe me."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, we have done something in the council at last worth talking about--voted to raise a regiment
of Rangers forthwith, and appointed all the commissioned officers, Samuel Herrick heading the
list as colonel."

"A gallant fellow, who will honor the post. But how about the means of paying and supporting
such a force? You lately held taxing the people, without their consent, too bold a measure,
I thought."

"We did, but have nevertheless adopted a bolder one."

"What is it?"

"Decreed the confiscation of the estates of the tories, appointed the necessary officers to
execute the decree, and despatched messengers to them with commissions, instructions, and with
orders to put the machine immediately into motion. By to-morrow nigh many of those on our black
list will--"

"Your black list?"

"Yes, already mostly made out for operations. But what is there to startle you in that?"

"Nothing; and yet I cannot forbear asking if that list includes one in whose family you may
guess I feel some interest."

"I fear so, and regret that the proofs are so strong as to require it."

"Could not action in that case be deferred? An angel is pleading with him to remain neutral."

"If she were a whig angel, Woodburn, I know not----"

"She is, she is--firmly, devotedly."

"Indeed! Well, for your sake, Woodburn, I am glad of it. And as the political hue of petticoats
has already been permitted to have an influence, in some instances of the kind, in making up
the list, it may have in this case. But the old man's enmity to our cause is so notorious,
that I fear his estate must go, though the daughter, if she prove true, will not be forgotten
on the question of a future restoration of her share of the property. But I am neglecting my
chief business with you. We have fixed your present destination for the other side of the mountain,
where among your old acquaintances, it was thought, you could raise a company most expeditiously."

"But where is the money to come from to pay my recruits: Even in case these estates are sold,
who among us, these times, has money to purchase them?"

"The answer to that question involves a secret which is known to but a few of us, and which
must not be further revealed. Suffice it that there is yet among us abundance of money, besides
the British gold that is beginning to be scattered along our border to meet our present requirements.
You will be supplied in season."

"I am content, and ready to depart."

"How soon can you start?"

"This hour, if necessary."

"Retire, then, and obtain a few hours' sleep; but be off before day. Here are your commission
and instructions, by which you will see that your subalterns are to be of your own appointing.
Good-night, and God speed you on your way. Remember that we expect much of you, and that I
stand voucher for your good conduct. And remember, also, my dear fellow," added the speaker,
in a low, confidential tone, "that the interests of your fair friend could not be in better
keeping."

"You have laid me under deep obligations to you, Mr. Allen for all this," began Woodburn, with
grateful emotion.

"Yes, to do well; but not a word of thanks will I hear. So off with you to your rest. Begone,
sir!" said Allen, pushing the other away, with that winning smile and kindly playful manner,
with which he ever so wonderfully contrived to gain the hearts and control the actions of all
whom he wished to make friends.

CHAPTER IV.

  "It is not much the world can give
     With all its subtle art;
   And gold and rank are not the things
     To satisfy the heart."

The day following the occurrences noted in the preceding chapter was an eventful one to the
Haviland family, developing circumstances calculated to hasten the crisis to which the conflicting
feelings and conduct of the father and daughter had been for some time silently tending, and
to give a new turn to their respective destinies.

It was late in the afternoon. No event had thus far during the day occurred to mar the usual
tranquillity of the family; and Haviland, yet uninformed of the untoward affair which befell
his party the last evening at Manchester, and little dreaming of the bold and decisive measures
adopted by the Council of Safety, was seated at a table in his usual sitting-room, examining,
with a satisfied and triumphant air, a map of New York, on which he was tracing out the intended
route of the British army in its hitherto victorious way from the St. Lawrence to Albany. At
length he began to muse aloud, partly to himself, apparently, and partly to his daughter, who,
with a pensive brow, was seated at an open window in the same room, quietly engaged with her
needle-work.

"As soon as General Burgoyne can clear the road of the trees and other obstructions, with which
the rebels, in their impotent spite, have filled it, so that he can move on to the Hudson,
how that grand army will sweep away the feeble and undisciplined bands that may venture to
oppose its victorious march! And when a junction of the British armies is formed at Albany,
what can this infatuated people think of doing then? With the north completely cut off from
the south, as will then be the case, what can these two sections, which together can hardly
raise a respectable force, do, when thus divided and prevented from all concert and cooperation?
Ay, what will they do then? Come, Sabrey," he added, turning with an exulting air to his daughter,
"perhaps you, who appear to have so high an opinion of rebel prowess--perhaps you can answer
the question?"

"I may be better prepared to answer the question, perhaps when I see the junction you anticipate
really effected. Burgoyne has not reached Albany yet," replied the other, with playful significance.

"Be sure not; but what is to prevent him? What force can the rebels oppose that he will not
scatter like chaff before the wind? None! I tell you, girl, their doom is sealed!"

"It might be, if they would consent to let you fight their battles for them, father. But the
battle which they are preparing to give Burgoyne they will choose to fight themselves, I imagine.
A few Bunker Hill lessons, on his way, might materially alter the general's prospects."

"Bunker Hill? Pooh! Why, we routed them even there behind their breastworks. Besides, we never
had so fine an army as this in the field before. I only wish I was as sure of some good commission
in Burgoyne's army, as I am that he will march triumphantly through to Albany, and thus bring
this unnatural war to a close."

"Would you think of going into that army, father, should you receive such an appointment?"
asked the daughter, in a tone of surprise and expostulation.

"Why, I should be proud to be there, Sabrey, in an army that contains so much of the first
talents and chivalry of England."

At this stage of the conversation, a man rode up to the door, and, dismounting and entering
the house, handed to Mr. Haviland, after inquiring his name, a gorgeously-sealed packet.

Haviland, after examining the seal a moment, bowed low to the stranger, and inquiringly observed,--

"From General Burgoyne, I believe?"

The messenger, nodding in the affirmative, and saying he was directed to wait for an answer,
the former broke open the missive, and found in it, by singular coincidence, an answer to the
prayer he had a few moments before indirectly uttered a commission, or appointment in the commissary
department of the British army. After perusing the paper a second time, he turned, and, with
a consequential air, handed it to his daughter, whose countenance instantly fell AS she glanced
over the suspected contents.

"You cannot seriously think of accepting this appointment father," she said, with a look of
concern; "you cannot think of leaving your quiet and comfortable home, and engaging, at your
age, in the fatigues and dangers of the camp?"

"Why not, Sabrey?" replied the other, reprovingly. "From my knowledge of the country, I can
be of great use in procuring the supplies which the army will need, as the general doubtless
foresaw; and I consider it my duty to the king to lend my feeble aid when called. The post
is not, it is true, a very high one; but it is honorable and lucrative, and I shall accept it."

'If this is Miss Sabrey Haviland, I have a letter for her also,' here interposed the messenger,
rising and presenting the letter in question.

Sabrey broke open the proffered letter, which proved to be from her friend Miss McRea, and
ran thus:--

"You remember your promise, Sabrey, to visit me the first opportunity. That opportunity now
occurs. Captain Jones and other friends have presented your father's name at head-quarters
for promotion; and he has now, I am informed, received an appointment. If he accepts, as I
am sure he will, I hope you will accompany him, and remain with me. I have just received one
of those letters so precious to me: he says the army will probably move on to Fort Edward next
week, the obstructions in the road being mostly removed; so that, by the time you arrive, I
shall probably be enabled to introduce you to the beautiful and accomplished ladies of whom
he has so much to say,--such as the Countess of Reidesel, Lady Harriet Ackland, and others,
who accompany their husbands in the campaign. But you will perhaps say that he is interested
in praising these ladies for the love and heroism which prompt them to brave such fatigues
and dangers for the sake of their lords, since he is warmly urging me to consent to an immediate
union, that I may follow their example. He says, in his last letter,--and I think truly,--that
I cannot long remain where I am, in a section which he evidently anticipates, will soon become
a frightful scene of strife and bloodshed; and that I must therefore go away with my friends,
and leave him, perhaps forever, or put myself under his protection in the army. And he seems
hurt that I hesitate in a choice of the alternatives. On the other hand, my connections and
friends here think it would be little short of madness in me to yield to my lover's proposal.
The people about here are greatly alarmed at the expected approach of the British army, which
is known to be accompanied by a large body of Indians, Many are already removing and nearly
all preparing to go The crisis hastens, and yet I am undecided. Prudence points one way, love
the other. What shall I do? O Sabrey what shall I do? Should you come on with your father,
I think I should feel a confidence in going with you to the British encampment. Come then,
my friend, come quickly, for I feel as if I could not go on without friends, and especially
a female friend, to accompany me; while, at the same time, I feel as if some irresistible destiny
would compel me to the attempt. And yet why would I hesitate to take any step which he advises?
Why refuse to share with him any dangers which he may encounter? And why should my anticipations
of the future, which have never, till recently, during my happy intimacy with Mr. Joes, been
so bright and blissful, be clouded now? I know not; I know not why it should be so; but lately
my bosom has become disturbed by strange misgivings, and my mind perplexed by dark and undefined
apprehensions. I must not, however, indulge them; and your presence, I know, would entirely
dissipate them. I repeat, therefore, come, and that quickly. Adieu.

  "Yours, truly,
  JANE McREA."

The messenger in waiting, having been invited into another room to partake of some refreshment,
and the father and daughter being thus left again by themselves, the latter now handed the
other for his perusal the affectionate but too truly boding letter of her fated friend.

"And what answer do you intend to return to this kind and pressing invitation of your friend,
Sabrey?" asked Haviland, after attentively reading the epistle.

"That I do not think it advisable to accept it, at this time, father," answered the girl.

"Why not advisable?" asked the other, in a censorious tone. "I see nothing to object to in
the step, going, as you will, under the protection of a father; while it will introduce you
to a circle which few American girls can ever reach."

"I feel quite willing to forego the honor of such an introduction," coolly returned the daughter.
"And were it otherwise, the very letter that brings me the invitations unfolds enough to deter
me from the undertaking."

"You wholly mistake your friend's meaning," responded the former. "Her apprehensions are merely
the natural effect of maiden timidity. I think, as her lover seems to do, that the safest place
for her is with the British army. So I think it will be for you; for I know not what punishment
will be inflicted on these settlements for their rebellious and treasonable conduct And it
is my wish to separate myself and family from them, before the day of reckoning arrives. I
shall, therefore, expect you to attend me."

As the daughter was about to reply a domestic came in and announced the arrival of Colonel
Peters; and the latter, the next moment, with a dark and sullen brow, unceremoniously entered
the apartment. He did not, however, deign immediately to unfold the cause of his evident ill-humor,
but contented himself with listening to the news, which the elated Haviland was prompt to impart
in relation to his own promotion, the invitation received by his daughter to accompany him
to the army or its vicinity, and his thus far rejected advice to her to accede to the proposal.
The cold countenance of Peters brightened with selfish delight at the recital; for in the old
gentleman's appointment, his determination to accept it, and his intention of taking his daughter
with him, if she could be so persuaded, the former saw the triumph of his machinations to involve
the family inextricably in the royal cause. But that triumph would not be complete, unless
the daughter, whose predilections for Woodburn and the American cause were more than suspected,
could be kept within the scope of loyal influence. He therefore secretly resolved that, if
her father left the settlement to join the army, she should not be left behind, but should
be induced or compelled to accompany him. He consequently was not slow to add his advice and
entreaties to those of the father. This he did for a while with some show of respect and kindness;
but finding her still immovable, he at length became irritated, and assumed a tone of dictation
so inconsistent with the natural delicacy of a lover, that she declined any further conversation
with him on the subject.

"Where will you go, perverse and blinded girl?" now interposed the father, reproachfully. "You
would not stay here alone and unprotected, would you?"

"I should not hesitate to do so on account of any molestation which American troops would offer
me," replied Sabrey, with a significant emphasis on the word American. "And should others approach,
I would go to my connections on the other side of the mountains."

"Miss Haviland may have her private reasons for wishing to remain in this section of the country,"
said Peters, with an ill-suppressed sneer, turning to the father.

"Will you please explain your meaning, sir?" demanded the girl with spirit.

"I mean," replied Peters, "that she who would hold clandestine meetings with one whom her father
has seen fit to eject from his house, might see the advantage of remaining where her interviews
could be enjoyed without molestation."

"Sabrey Haviland, is that true?" asked the old gentleman with a gathering frown.

"She will hardly deny, I think," said Peters, "that the fellow was here soon after I left last
night. At all events, he was seen to leave the premises in pursuit of me. By whom he was informed
of the direction I took, I know not; but I know he overtook me, beset me like a ruffian, and
shot my horse by a ball intended for the rider."

"Is all that true, I repeat?" again fiercely demanded Haviland of his daughter, in a burst of rage.

But without deigning one word of reply either to the insulting insinuations of Peters, or the
angry and ill-timed demand of her father, Sabrey, with cheeks glowing with offended delicacy
and just indignation, rose from her seat, and was about to leave the apartment, when her step
was arrested by the altered voice of her father, who, quickly becoming sensible of the harshness
of his conduct from its visible effects, now spoke to her in a softened and more expostulatory
tone.

"Surely, Sabrey, you are not going to deny my right, as a parent, to question you, or at least
ask you for an explanation respecting charges which have the appearance of involving your character?"

"I might not," said she, coolly, but respectfully; "and indeed, I should not, at another time,
have refused to answer your question so far as I could, however harshly it was put to me; but
I must still decline to do so in this presence!" she added, glancing towards the abashed Peters,
with an air of scorn to which her usually serene and benignant countenance never before, perhaps,
gave expression.

"Perhaps, Miss Haviland," said Peters, stung by the remark and manner of the other, and now
rallying for the revenge to which such minds are prone to resort--"perhaps Miss Haviland, on
a little more reflection, may be willing to acknowledge that I, also, am not wholly without
a right to ask for an explanation in an affair which she seems to admit requires one."

"I am not aware, sir," promptly responded the maiden, so much aroused by the cool arrogance
of the other, as to forget her determination to hold no more conversation with him--"I am not
aware, sir, of having admitted any necessity of an explanation And had I done so, I should
be very far from acknowledging your right to require it of me."

"It is possible," rejoined the former in the same strain--"it is possible Miss Haviland may
be willing to qualify her last remark a little, when she is reminded of the existence of a
certain marriage contract, to which she voluntarily became a party."

"I need no prompting to make me mindful of that evidence of my youthful indiscretion, sir,"
responded Miss Haviland; "nor should I be likely to forget the particular provisions of an
instrument, the thought of which has cost me, as my entreaties to be released from it should
have apprised you, so many painful regrets. But, while mindful of all this, I have yet to be
informed of the provision which, till the contract is consummated, gives you any control over
my actions, or right to require me to account for or explain them."

"If the instrument, which I have somewhere about me, I believe," replied the other, with his
usual cold indifference, as he took the document from his pocket, and began, with a businesslike
air, to glance over the contents--"if the instrument does not express, or rather if it is not
admitted to presuppose and give me, any of the rights I have named till it is consummated,
then it is time that I should insist on its consummation, which, as few others would have done,
I have so long forborne to urge."

"I perfectly agree with Colonel Peters," interposed Mr. Haviland, catching at the last suggestion
in his growing alarm for the success of his favorite scheme, which the unexpected state of
feeling here displayed taught him might be endangered, if not speedily consummated. "I perfectly
agree with him, that this business has already been sufficiently delayed; and I think, as the
family is now about to break up, that the final ceremony had better be performed before we
go, or, at the farthest, when we reach the army, where, as Sabrey would perhaps prefer, it
might take place at the same time as that of her friend, who is similarly situated."

"You forget," said the maiden, now freshly aroused at this combined attempt to make her forego
her last remaining privilege in the abhorrent negotiation--"you both forget that the very instrument,
by which you claim to dispose of my hand, expressly leaves to me, and to me only, the right
and privilege of deciding upon the time for that ceremony, by which you would now, it seems,
so summarily consummate your unmanly scheme. And thank Heaven!" she continued, turning to the
nonplused suitor with an air of decision and fearlessness which the excitement of insulted
feeling could only have given her--"thank Heaven, I had the forethought to insist on a privilege
now so precious to me; for let me assure you, sir, that distant will be the day when I shall
fix on a time for consummating a contract, wrung from girlish inexperience, to gratify selfish
ambition or mistaken views in the first place, and now claimed to hold me like a sold article
of merchandise, for the use and control of one whose feelings, principles, and whole character
are every way uncongenial with my own."

"What!--how!" exclaimed the irritated and evidently astonished Haviland, who, in his obtuseness,
even now, could not perceive what objection his daughter could have to a match esteemed by
him so advantageous. "What can this mean? Why, the girl must be demented! You to decide on
the time! Why, reasonable time is all that was meant by that, if it is not so expressed!"

"That is all; nothing more," eagerly chimed in Peters.

"If a part of the instrument is to be construed differently from what is expressed, and as
you choose, why not other parts, and as I choose?" calmly asked the unmoved girl. "If so, then
its power to bind me shall cease with this hour."

"What folly!" again exclaimed the old gentleman, balked and chafing worse than before. "Why,
don't the infatuated girl know that, to say nothing about losing prospects which no other young
lady in the country would reject--that by marrying any other man, she will forfeit her birthright
in my estate, and make herself, as she will deserve to be, a beggar?"

"I have no thought of marrying any other man while in my present embarrassing position," quickly
retorted the former, with an offended air. "But should I wish to do so, I should hardly be
deterred from it by either of the considerations you have just named, I think. And, indeed,
if the mercenary and ambitious motives, which you would have actuate me, were alone to be my
guide in such a step, I could see but little temptation for the sacrifice in the honors and
wealth which are so much to depend on a triumph that, for all your boasts, I believe will never
be accomplished; while the failure, if the same justice is meted out to you which you seem
to be meditating for others, will leave you with a branded name, and no estate here to give
or withhold."

"Silence! audacious girl," exclaimed the baffled loyalist, unable longer to endure the calm
but scorching rebuke involved in the reply of his daughter. "I will listen to no more of your
railings. This comes of being allowed to mingle with an ignorant, rebellious populace. But
that evil shall, at least, be remedied. You will attend me to the army, where, I trust, your
eyes may soon be opened to your folly."

"You may perhaps compel me to go, sir," responded the still unawed maiden; "but if you do so,
let me warn you against all hope of thereby rendering my feelings less repugnant to the scheme
we have been discussing, or of changing my views of the cause in which you are about to embark;
for I will now openly declare, what I have often before left you to infer, that I have no sympathies
for those who come to oppress and enslave my country; nor will I ever aid or sanction their
ignoble purposes--not even to the withholding any intelligence I may gain of their movements,
which may avert disaster or peril from our struggling people."

"Hurrah for the tory's daughter!" now burst on the ears of the astonished group, from a band
of armed men standing immediately beneath the open but thickly vine-clad windows without, whither,
it seemed, they had approached unperceived, and thus become unintentional listeners to the
last part of the foregoing dialogue, which they were still hesitating to break in upon, when
their admiration of the heroic girl's declarations led to the irrepressible burst of applause
just mentioned--"Hurrah for the tory's daughter! She shall be remembered for that!"

The party within instantly rose to their feet at so strange and unexpected a salutation. Peters,
aware, from the experience of the last night, that his capture was sought, was the first, as
might be expected, to take the alarm. With a hasty step towards the window, and an equally
hasty glance through the screening foliage at the new-comers, he hurriedly retreated through
a door leading to the rear of the house. Haviland, scarcely less alarmed, though having no
conception of the main object of the visit, advanced, with evident perturbation, to the front
door, when he was met at the threshold by the secretary of the Council of Safety, who, bowing
politely, proceeded to apologize for the noisy outbreak of his attendants, which, contrary
to his wishes, he said, had been made to announce his arrival.

"Attendants, sir?" exclaimed Haviland, casting a flurried glance at the file of soldiers in
the yard--"attendants--armed men led up here to my door? Who are they? What is then business,
and yours, sir? This affair needs explanation, sir."

"Well, sir, if so, I am here to give it," composedly replied Allen. "But, as you appear somewhat
agitated, let us walk in and talk over the matter calmly."

Mechanically complying with the suggestion, Haviland turned and led the way into the room,
where his daughter still stood, mutely awaiting the development; when the secretary, after
bowing with marked respect to Miss Haviland, with whom, it appeared, he was slightly acquainted,
resumed,--

"The Council of Safety, sir, having determined on defending the state to the last extremity,
in the present crisis, have perceived, with deep regret, that there are those in our midst
who hesitate not either to take up arms against their countrymen, or, what is no better, secretly
to aid the enemy, and harbor and conceal in their houses hostile emissaries, trying to seduce
our people. And not perceiving the policy or justice of longer permitting their cause thus
to be endangered, the council have decided on a measure for promptly remedying the evil--a
measure which they had less hesitation in adopting, as they believed, from the repeated threats
of the loyalists, they would only be anticipating their opponents by inflicting penalties,
that, in case of the conquest of this country, will be visited on themselves. They have passed
a solemn decree, sir, to confiscate, for the public use, all the estates of both of the classes
of loyalists I have named, among one of which, at least, they have abundant proof, I regret
to say, to warrant them in classing Esquire Haviland. And they direct me to permit him to take
one of the horses, lately his own, and depart, with the least possible delay, for the British
camp, where, they think, he more properly belongs."

The arrogant loyalist, who had hitherto looked upon the Council of Safety with utter contempt
for either their powers or their efficiency, was now perfectly thunderstruck at the announcement
of so bold and unexpected a measure; and, for some moments, his mouth seemed wholly sealed
against any remonstrance to a step which, not for public good, but for his own aggrandizement,
he was conscious of intending to recommend to the British government in relation to the estates
of the leading rebels, and especially those of the treasonable body by whom, as had just been
so truthfully told him, his selfish designs had now been anticipated. Soon rallying, however,
he wrathfully muttered,--

"They dare not do it; their audacity will not carry them to that length. But if they do," he
continued, with louder and more menacing tones--"if they do attempt to carry out their plundering
purposes, I will bring down upon them, within eight and forty hours, a British force that will
give them enough to do to take care of themselves and their own property, without meddling
with that of others."

"That is what we supposed you would be glad to do, in any case," quietly responded Allen. "It
but swells the proof against you, and goes to confirm the justice of the decree."

"O, do not say any more, father," interposed Miss Haviland, with much feeling. "Do not, I beg
of you, further and more inextricably involve yourself. You know how gladly I would have saved
you from this; how often warned you of the consequences of persisting in your course. Perhaps
it is not too late to retract, even now. Who knows but the council, who have done this but
from a sense of duty to their country, and with no ill will against you personally, may yet
be induced, if you will send in a pledge of neutrality, to reverse their sentence as regards
you, and still leave you in possession of your property and a quiet home? I myself, feeble
girl as I am, would go before them to intercede for you; and perhaps this gentleman would assist
me," she added, with an appealing glance to Allen.

"Most gladly," replied the latter, touched at the magnanimity of the girl, in her distress--"most
gladly, and with great hope of success."

"Do you hear that, father?" said the other, eagerly; "do you hear what I feel--I know--may
yet be done for you? Then do not reject my petition, but retract, and give up your intention
of joining these invaders of your country."

"No," replied the old gentleman, after a moment of apparent wavering--"no, never! Let the plunderers
take possession of my estate here for the short time they will be enabled to hold it, if they
will. To-morrow morning I start for the British camp."

"It is as I feared," observed Allen, turning to the daughter; "but your efforts to rescue your
father, Miss Haviland, and the noble stand you have taken on this occasion and before, are,
let me assure you, appreciated by myself, and will not fail to be so by those of more controlling
influence. And although this property will, in a few days, be sold by those duly appointed,
and now here to guard and dispose of it, yet the government, which has the power to confiscate,
will have the power to restore; and I have no fears that your own interests will eventually
be made to suffer by a measure which may now appear as harsh to you as it appeared necessary
to the upright and patriotic men who felt themselves constrained to adopt it. In this you may
trust, I think, as regards the future. As for the present, I am only empowered to offer you
an asylum in some friendly family of the neighborhood, with ample means of support, or, if
you prefer, a safe conveyance, with a female attendant, should you desire it, to any family
in a more distant part of the state."

"My daughter will probably go with me, sir," said Haviland, resentfully.

"No, father," said the girl, firmly; "that army is no proper place for a young lady and especially
one of my views. I shall for the present, go into the family of our neighbor Risdon; but in
a few days, I will gratefully accept of Mr. Allen's offer of a conveyance, and, as I proposed
to you a short time ago, go to my connections on the other side of the mountains."

"Your wishes will be attended to in this or any other respect as soon as you shall please to
signify them, Miss Haviland," said the secretary, as, bowing a respectful adieu, he now departed
with part of his armed attendants, for other and similar visits which remained to be accomplished
that night among the unsuspecting tories of that vicinity.

Within an hour or two after the departure of Allen, or as soon as the growing darkness would
enable a skulker to approach unseen, a man, who was of the latter description evidently, might
have been discovered slowly and cautiously making a circuit round the house, but at so respectable
distance from it as to escape the observation of the guard now stationed at three or four commanding
points about the premises. When he had reached a point nearly opposite to the back door, he
ventured up to the border of the intervening garden, and gave a low, significant whistle. After
a momentary silence, a slight rustling was heard in a thick patch of corn occupying a portion
of the garden, and Peters, who, it will be recollected, passed out in this direction, and who,
perceiving his retreat cut off by men already posted in the fields, had here lain concealed
till now, cautiously emerged from his covert, and came forward to the spot where the other
stood awaiting his approach.

"Well, Redding," said Peters, in a low voice, as he came up "when I asked you this morning
to come here to Haviland's to-night to see me, before I went to the army, I didn't exactly
expect you would have to call me out of a corn patch to receive my orders. But how came you
to know or suspect I was here? You have not ventured in there, I take it?" he added, leading
the way into the field, which the guard had now left.

"No," replied the other; "I caught a glimpse of the fellows in the yard as I came in sight,
and, mistrusting what was to pay from what I had just heard of their movements this forenoon
in Manchester, and other towns thereabouts I struck off across the pasture, where I luckily
encountered the old squire, who walked out there, after the leader of the gang had left, and
who told me of your concealment, and all."

"Yes, he came to the back door, here, the first chance he could get, to see if I had escaped,
when, contriving to apprise him where I was, I had got a moment's talk with him just before.
But what have you heard about their movements in other places to-day?"

"Why, I met Asa Rose going post-haste to warn our friends in this direction to be on their
guard. He says they have seized on the estates of all the Rose family, and every other leading
loyalist, as far as they could hear, in all that section; and, in several instances, put the
owners themselves under guard. What do you say to all that, colonel?"

"Glad of it. Though an act of lawlessness and audacity which I did not once dream of their
attempting, and which, even now, they will not dare to carry out, should they have time to
do so before their brief career is arrested, yet I am glad the rebel fools have done it; for,
between you and me, Redding, I have had my doubts whether the British government, which is
ever too merciful, would take their estates from them, when we come to subdue them, as you
know we have talked; but now vengeance will be swift and certain. Their estates will all be
seized and given to the deserving."

"Ay, that's it!" exclaimed the perfidious minion, with a chuckle of satisfaction; "it will
give us our revenge, and at the same time supply us with the needful. I have a good many scores
to settle with the people about here; and I know of the farm of a certain rebel that I shall
ask for my share, as I think I justly may, seeing how active I've been this summer.

"Yes, yes," replied Peters, rather impatiently; "but there must be no more wavering and turning
with you. What you ask you must earn, remember."

"You see if I don't! only name what you would have me do, colonel!" eagerly responded the other.

"Well, I will now," said the former, coming to a halt. "Yes, as we are, by this time, fairly
out of reach and hearing of these foiled rebels, who have so kindly yielded me a pass through
this side of their watch, thinking, doubtless, that I could not have been in the house when
they surrounded it, but should be there this evening--yes, I will give you my orders now, which
will embrace a fresh item or two above what I intended before some of the occurrences of this
afternoon. Well, in the first place, you are to proceed to Castleton, and join the northern
company there collected and ready for operations at the Remington rendezvous, You will then
become the guide and assistant of the leader of that force, which is to move on to some secret
and safe place, to be selected by you (as you know the localities, and the leader don't) in
the woods near the Twenty Mile Encampment, where, acting is the advanced corps of our planned
expedition to the Connecticut by that route, they will remain concealed as much as possible,
till further orders, watching all movements of the rebels, and drawing in every trusty loyalist
that can be approached. And mark me, Redding, while there, or elsewhere, remember, that accursed
Woodburn is a doomed man, and is to be taken, if found, and kept for my disposal. And I have
another order, which must be left still more to your especial management. Haviland's daughter,
with whom you know, I suppose, how I am situated, has got some dangerous notions into her head,
and, refusing to hear to her father, who wishes her to go with him to the army, has determined
to go to her relatives, over the mountain, in a carriage the rebels have promised to provide
her. She will be along that road, probably, soon after you get to your rendezvous. She must
be stopped, and conducted, with good treatment, mind you, back, through some secret route,
to the British camp, where her father, though he knows nothing of my plan, will be glad to
receive and keep her. And now I will be off to my horse, which I luckily left at the house
of a friend, on the cross road, about a mile to the west of us."

"Will you go far on your journey to-night?"

"About seven miles, to the house of another friend, where I am to be joined by the squire in
the morning, and, with him, proceed directly to the army."

"How soon are we to hear from you?"

"Within ten days, or sooner. I shall, with all possible despatch, organize and prepare the
force designed for the purpose; when I shall sweep on through Arlington and Manchester, and,
after teaching them a few lessons in that quarter, proceed at once to join you. There! you
now know all; go, and remember that secrecy and vengeance are the watchwords."

"Ay, ay; I am your man for all that, colonel," responded the heartless tool, as the two now
separated to depart on their different destinations.

CHAPTER V.

  "What nearer foe is lurking in the glade?--
   But joy! Columbia's friends are trampling through the shade!"

One of the earliest and most noted of the houses of public entertainment in Vermont was that
of Captain John Coffin, situated in the north part of Cavendish, on the old military road,
cut out in the French wars, by the energetic General Amherst, with a regiment of New Hampshire
Boys, and extending from Number Four, as Charleston on the Connecticut was then called, to
the fortresses on Lake Champlain. This tavern, at the time of the revolution, being on the
very outskirts of the settlements on the east side of the Green Mountains, was long the general
resort of the soldier and the common wayfarer for rest and refreshment, before and after passing
over the long and dreary route of mountain wilderness lying between the eastern and western
settlements of the state. And to the soldier, especially, it was a favorite haven; the more
so, doubtless, from the congenial character of its frank, fearless, patriotic, but blunt and
unpolished landlord, whose substantial cheer and hearty welcome, money or no money usually
caused him to be looked upon as a friend, as well as a good entertainer. To this then widely-known
establishment we will now repair, to note the occurrences next to be related in the progress
of our story.

On a dark and cloudy afternoon, about ten days after the events related in the last chapter,
a company of five persons were assembled in the rudely finished bar-room of the inn just described.
Of these, three were strangers, or pretended strangers, to the house and each other; having
dropped in at different intervals during the afternoon. Of the two others, one was the landlord,
whose burly frame, rough, open features, and fear-nought countenance need have left none in
doubt of either the physical or moral traits which experience proved he possessed. The other,
a somewhat tall, thin, gaunt man, of a weather-beaten visage, and a sort of sly, scrutinizing
look, was an old acquaintance of the reader. As of old, his large powder-horn and ball-pouch
were slung under his left arm, and his long, heavy rifle, standing by his side, was resting
on the sill of the open window beneath which he had seated himself, so as to enable him to
note what might be passing without as well as within. The manner in which the latter and the
landlord occasionally exchanged glances, implied a previous and familiar acquaintance, the
usual manifestations of which seemed to be repressed by the presence of the three guests first
named, who were evidently objects of the secret suspicion of the former. But all this, for
some time, might have passed unheeded by any but close observers; for few remarks, and those
of the briefest and most common-place kind, were offered; and an inclination for silence and
reserve was manifest among the company.

A circumstance at length occurred, however, which quickly awakened the landlord from his apparent
apathy, and brought some of the leading characteristics of the man at once into view. A very
large and powerfully-made black dog, which belonged to the house, had just marched into the
room, and laid down to sleep in the middle of the floor; when one of the strangers, whom we
have noticed, in returning from the bar, where he had been for a drink of water, trod on the
animal's tail, either through accident or design--probably the latter;--at least the landlord
seemed to suspect so; for his countenance instantly flashed with indignation, and, turning
abruptly to the aggressor, he said,--

"What was that done for, sir?"

"Done for?" replied the other, indifferently. "Why, it was done because the dog was in my way.
If he don't want his tail trod on, he must keep out from under foot; that's all."

"Well, sir," rejoined the former, in no gentle tones, "I don't know who you are; but whether
whig or tory, gentle or simple, I shall just take the liberty to tell you, that if I was sure
you did that intentionally, I would pull your ears for you; for, if any living being has a
good right to remain undisturbed, and do as he likes in this house, it is that dog. Roarer,
come here, my old friend," he added, turning to fondle the creature, that now, dropping the
menacing attitude he had assumed towards the aggressing stranger, came up and thrust his huge
snout into his master's lap. "Yes, old fellow, while I live, you shall never want a friend
to avenge your wrongs, though I have to fight a regiment to do it! And aint I right in that,
Dunning?" he still further remarked, turning to the hunter.

"Der yes, if needful," replied the latter; "but the ditter dog. I'm thinking, would ask no
favors, if you would give him leave to der do his own work on meddlers.

"O, that wouldn't do, you know, Tom," rejoined the former, "for, if I but said the word, Roarer
would tear him in shoestrings, as quick as you could say Jack Roberson! No I'll settle the
hash myself. And I am now ready to hear the fellow's explanation," he added, again turning
sternly to the aggressor.

But the last-named questionable personage, not relishing the course matters were taking, now,
in a subdued and altered tone promptly disclaimed any intention of touching the dog, and expressed
his regret at what had happened.

"O, that's enough," said Coffin, instantly cooling off. "All right now, Roarer. You may lie
down again, sir," he continued, waving away the dog, that had faced round, and still stood
suspiciously eyeing the offender. "Yes, that's enough; we'll call the matter settled. But by
way of explaining to you, who are strangers, what I have said about that dog's claims to my
friendship and protection, I must tell you a story, which will show you how much the noble
creature is deserving at my hands.

"Six years ago, the seventh day of last March, as I was returning from the settlements on Otter
Creek, a distance of from twenty to thirty miles, through the then entire wilderness, with
the snow nearly five feet deep on a level, and the weather so cold and stormy, that I was compelled
to travel with great-coat on, as well as snow-shoes, I undertook to cross one of the ponds
in Plymouth on the ice, which I supposed perfectly sound and safe for any thing that could
be got on to it. But for some reason or other, there seemed to have been one place, concealed
from view by the snow, so thin and spongy, that the moment I stepped upon it, I went down some
feet below the surface into the water, while the snow and broken ice at once closed over me.
And although I succeeded in forcing my way up through the slush, and getting my head above
water, yet I soon found it, hampered as I was with snow-shoes and great-coat, impossible to
get out. As sure as I tried to raise myself by the treacherous support at the sides, so sure
was it to give way, and precipitate me back into the water. But still I struggled on, till
chilled to the vitals, so benumbed that I could scarcely move a limb, and growing weaker and
weaker at every effort, I could do no more; and I saw myself gradually sinking for the last
time. O heavens! who can describe my sensations--who conceive the thousand thoughts that flashed
through my mind at that horrible moment! But just as I was on the point of giving up in despair,
I caught a glimpse of my dog (that had taken a circuit wide from me after some game) coming
on to the pond. I raised one faint shout--it was all I could do,--and, though nearly a half
mile off, he heard it, and came on, with monstrous bounds, to the spot. In a moment he was
there; and, after giving me one look,--I can never forget that look,--he slid down to the very
verge of the hole to try to assist me. With a struggle, I made out to raise one hand out of
the water within his reach. He seized the cuff of my coat, and, drawing back with the seeming
strength of a draught-horse, he, with one pull, brought me half out of the water. With a desperate
effort on my part, and another on his, the next instant I was lying helpless, but safe, on
the ice, while the dog fairly howled aloud for joy! I said safe; for as hopeless as some might
have viewed my situation, even then, wet, benumbed, nearly dead with cold and exhaustion, and
many miles from any human help or habitation, as I was, yet rallying every energy I had left
me, and rolling, kicking, and pawing, to put my blood in motion, and regain the use of my limbs,
I soon got on to my feet; when, seizing my gun, that I had hurled aside as I went down, I made
for a dry tree in sight, fired into a spot of spunk I luckily found on one side of it, kindled
a fire, warmed and dried myself, set forward again, and reached home that night; but with feelings
towards that dog, sir, that I can never know towards any other created being--not even, in
some respects, towards my wife and children. Yes, sir; I will not only fight, but, if need
be, die for him."

While the captain was relating his oft-told but truthful adventure with his justly-prized dog,
the quick eye of Dunning caught, through the window, a glimpse of a recognized form, approaching
in the road from the east; and slipping out unnoticed from the room, he beckoned the approaching
personage round the corner of the house, and when safely out of the hearing and observation
of those in the bar-room, he turned to the other, and said,--

"Der devil's in the wind, Captain Harry!"

"How so? Have you discovered the suspected rendezvous?"

"Der yes; and more too."

"Indeed! where is it?"

"Ditter deep in the thickets, on the west side of the pond nearest the great road over the
mountains."

"Ah, ha! but their numbers? any more, probably, than the small club we supposed?"

"Der double, and then the ditter double of that, if it don't make more than twenty."

"You surprise me, Dunning. Are you sure?"

"Sure as that I am der talking to Captain Woodburn."

"Impossible! It must be some secret meeting of the disaffected in this quarter."

"Der not that, but a regularly armed force, and, with the ditter exception of two or three
about-home tories, may be, all strange faces, including a sprinkling of red skins, brought
along with them for ditter decency's sake, I suppose."

"But how could such a force get so far into the interior undetected? How dare they venture
on so hazardous a movement? and what can be their designs in so doing?"

"Der here is something that ditter tells a rather loud story about that; at least, as to the
matter of intentions," said the hunter, by way of reply, taking a crumpled paper from his cap
and handing it to the other.

Woodburn took the paper, and eagerly ran over its contents; which to his astonishment he found
to be a copy of an order from General Burgoyne to Colonel Peters, detailing the plan of an
expedition, to be conducted by the latter, with one hundred loyalists and a company of Indians,
by way of the head waters of Otter Creek, across the mountains to Connecticut River, where
this force was to be joined by the loyal troops from Rhode Island, and directing him "to scour
the country, levy contributions, take hostages, make prisoners of all civil and military officers
acting under Congress, collect horses, and, after proceeding down the river as far as Brattleborough,
return to the great road to Albany." [Footnote: The document here quoted was brought to General
Stark on his advance through Vermont; and there can be but little doubt of its genuineness;
as it afterwards came out, in the trial of Burgoyne in the British Parliament, that such an
expedition was actually started, but subsequently changed for that of Bennington. How considerable
a portion of the whole intended force penetrated into the interior is not ascertained. But
we have the authority of the oldest inhabitants for asserting, that a portion of this force
did cross over the mountains, and some of them even reached Springfield; when, owing to the
unexpected movements they found going on among the people, and the rumored advance of Stark,
all, who were not taken, speedily decamped.]

"How did this get into your hands, Dunning?" demanded the surprised and excited officer, as
soon as he had mastered the contents.

"Der well, having crept along near the edge of the pond within ten or twelve rods of their
camp, I was lying in the bushes for discoveries; when ditter one of 'em--their leader, I suppose--came
down to the pond, for observation, likely; and, while peering up and down the shore, a gust
of wind blew his hat off into the water. But though he regained his ditter hit and disappeared,
I soon saw a piece of white paper blowing along in the water towards me. After a while, it
reached the sort of point where I was, and lodging against a bush, I secured it, and found
it this same thing. What do you think of it, captain?"

"Why, it unfolds a plan too bold for credence."

"Not too bold for my ditter credence, captain."

"Then you think it no feint?"

"Der no, sir, but a regular bred expedition, which they mean to push as soon as more force
arrives. I have been ditter watching things a little since I got at this wrinkle. They have
spies out in every direction. 'Tis not an hour since I espied a fellow peering from the corner
of the woods up yonder, who, I think, must be that treacherous ditter devil, David Redding,
and there are three now in the bar-room of the same kidney."

"Ah! well, all this may be. Such an expedition may have been set afoot at the instigation of
such fellows as Spencer, who, having left the Council of Safety before any thing was done,
and while its distracted counsels seemed to preclude all prospect that any thing would be done
for the defence of the state. Ay, that is it; and little dreaming of what has since transpired,
Peters, who is probably behind, with the main force, has sent forward this as a sort of pioneer
corps, who, coming over a route now mostly deserted by our people, have penetrated here nearly
to the Twenty Mile Encampment, without once suspecting what is going on through the rest of
the state. But that is a secret, which, thanks to the prompt patriotism shown by our young
men in enlisting, we shall now soon be able to teach them; for my company is already nearly
full; and, if you have notified the recruits you enlisted. Sergeant Dunning, they will all
be here for mustering by to-morrow night."

"All done, as in der duty bound, captain; and six of my men said they would be here this evening."

"Indeed! there will be almost enough of us, if your six recruits all get in, to make a pounce
upon this nest of vipers to-night Let's see; six--you, myself, and Captain Coffin, and----"

"And der Bart, if he comes; ditter don't you expect him along here to-night?"

"I do. Miss Haviland, according to the letter of Mr. Allen, who wrote some days ago, to apprise
me of her coming, would have started, I calculate, this morning; and Bart, whom I immediately
despatched to act as her guard on the way, will of course come with her. They will probably
arrive before long, now--unless----" and the speaker suddenly paused at the new and startling
thought that now seemed to occur to him.

"Unless," said Dunning, guessing the thoughts of the other and taking up the supposition--"unless
beset by some of this crew, who are ordered to take prisoners and hostages. But der stay; didn't
I catch the glimmer of a distant horseman then?" he continued, pointing along the partially
wooded road to the west. "There! that was a clearer view; and, by the ditter darting kind of
gait of the horse, I should think it might be Lightfoot, and the short rider the critter we've
been talking about."

The hunter's eye had not misled him; for in a few minutes the horseman emerged from the forest
into open view, and confirmed the conjecture that had just been made respecting his identity.
As he neared the house, perceiving Woodburn and Dunning beckoning to him from behind the buildings,
he threw himself from his saddle, leaped over the fence, and approached them.

"The news, sir? What is it? Speak!" eagerly exclaimed Woodburn, as Bart, with a downcast and
troubled look, drew near.

"Bad as need to be, consarn it!" replied the latter, with an air of mingled vexation and self-reproach.
"But I couldn't help it."

"Help what? What has happened? Where is the lady?" rapidly asked the alarmed and impatient lover.

"Taken prisoner by the tories, as I guessed 'em. She and Vine Howard, that come with her, and
the boy that drove 'em."

"How? when? where?"

"Why, as we were coming down this side the mountain, and when nearly to the bottom, five or
six fellows, with guns, rushed out of the bush, seized the horse, pulled out the women, and
hurried them off with two of their number into the woods towards the pond; while the rest made
a push to take me, who was riding just behind. But firing a pistol in their faces, and giving
Lightfoot my stiffest sign, we dashed through or over them, and escaped, with their bullets
whistling after us, one after another, till we were out of reach."

"These ladies shall be rescued before I sleep, or I will perish in the attempt," said Woodburn,
with stern emphasis. "Let us arm and set forward immediately with the best force we can raise."

"There is a thing or two to be ditter done first, it strikes me," observed Dunning, with his
usual coolness; "that is, if we don't want enemies both before and behind us, on the way."

"What is that, Dunning?"

"Secure those three chaps in the bar-room, or they'll be ditter sure either to be on our heels,
or get there before us to raise the alarm of our coming."

"Are they armed, think you?"

"With ditter knives only, I'm thinking--their guns may have been left in the point of woods
yonder, in charge of the spy I named, who, now I ditter think on't, ought to be taken about
the same time, for fear of some secret signal being given."

The suggestions of Dunning, who, as the reader will already have inferred, had been made a
sergeant in Woodburn's company of Rangers, were at once approved by his superior, who accordingly,
as the first step, despatched him and Bart to the woods, where the man conjectured to be in
charge of the arms of his comrades was supposed to be concealed. After waiting till the two
others might have had time to gain the woods in question, Woodburn left his stand, and, passing
round to the front of the house, boldly marched into the bar-room, where the three suspected
personages still sat listening to the stories with which the landlord, who suspected what was
in progress, seemed intent on amusing them. They, however, now seemed suddenly to lose all
interest in the recital going on, and, after exchanging uneasy and significant glances, simultaneously
rose to depart.

"You are my prisoners, gentlemen," said Woodburn, stepping before them and presenting a cocked
pistol.

For a moment, the surprised tories stood mute in alarm and doubt, alternately glancing from
their armed opponent to the landlord, and from the latter to the door and windows, as if weighing
the chances and means of escape. But, the next instant, two of them suddenly turned, and drawing
and flourishing their knives behind them, sprang for the open windows, with the intention of
leaping through them.

"At 'em, Roarer!" exclaimed Coffin, seizing one escaping tory by the leg, and hurling him back
with stunning effect upon the floor.

The dog was but little behind his master in drawing back, by a grip in his clothes, the other
to the floor, where he was glad to lie without offering further resistance to the grim and
growling conqueror standing over him. The third, in the mean while, not daring to stir lest
a worse fate should befall him, standing as he was directly before the muzzle of Woodburn's
pistol, and seeing the situation of his comrades, immediately submitted; when all, giving up
their concealed arms, now quietly yielded themselves as prisoners.

In a few minutes after the surrender of the tories, their guns were brought in by Dunning and
Bart, who found them at the suspected place, though the traitor, Redding, whom they identified,
had just taken the alarm, and was seen retreating over a distant knoll as they came up to the spot.

The prisoners being left in charge of the landlord's oldest boy, who was armed for the purpose,
and the dog Roarer, the rest of the company now retired to another part of the house, to devise
measures for the rescue of the fair captives, for which a preliminary step only had as yet
been taken. Having at length fixed on the plan of operations which they believed most promising
of auspicious results, they immediately commenced their hasty preparations for the bold adventure.
And Dunning's six recruits luckily arriving in season, the whole company, now consisting of
ten resolute woodsmen, and led on by a man fully resolved to succeed or perish, set forward,
a little after sunset, for the scene of action, which was several miles distant from the tavern.
According to the plan that had been adopted, two men were to proceed to the eastern shore of
the pond, take a log canoe, and, under cover of the darkness, row silently over to some point
beyond, but near the tory encampment; and, after making what discoveries they could respecting
the situation of the captives, lie in ambush and await the operations of the rest of the company,
who were to proceed round by the road, enter the woods, and gain a post on the other side of
the encampment, and, by a feigned attack, draw off the tories, and thus afford the former a
favorable moment to rush from their concealment and release the captives. And if they found
this impracticable, they were then to shout aloud the watchword, To the rescue! when both parties
of the assailants were to make an earnest and desperate onset on the foe. Dunning and Bart,
from their known sagacity and skill as woodsmen and coolness and intrepidity in action, were
the two men selected to undertake the more difficult and hazardous part first mentioned.

After a rapid and silent march of about an hour, the company reached the vicinity of the pond,
just as the last suffusions of an obscured twilight disappeared in the west, and halted a few
minutes, that the different parts of the plan might be repeated and clearly understood by all
before separating.

"Remember the arrangement, boys," said Woodburn, addressing Dunning and Bart, in a voice which
betrayed the intense solicitude he felt in the event at issue. "Recollect the first and main
object is to release and get off the ladies, and if this can be done within the hour we will
give you for the purpose, as it possibly may be, before we make any demonstrations in front,
so much the better; if not, proceed in the manner agreed on. And may Heaven favor the innocent,
whose cause, remember, is mostly in your hands."

With this the company separated, and each party proceeded to their different destinations.
We will follow the two intrusted with the most difficult part of the enterprise.

CHAPTER VI.

  "The first that hears
   Shall be the first to bleed."

The hunter, followed by his young comrade, now leaving the rest of the band to proceed to their
contemplated stand by the main road, struck off into the woods to the right, and, with silent
and rapid steps, led the way to the south-eastern shore of the pond. Here finding, as he seemed
to have expected, a capacious canoe, dug out from the trunk of some huge pine, he drew it forth
from its concealment, beneath a mass of fallen trees projecting over the bank, and, bidding
Bart enter with the oars, and placing one knee on the stern, with a grasp on the sides, gave
a push with his foot from the shore, which sent his rude craft surging out far into the open
expanse of water before him. Before applying the oars, however, and while the canoe continued
to move under the impulse it had thus received, its occupants employed themselves in bending
their heads to the water, and listening for any sounds that might indicate the presence of
others abroad on the pond. The night, as it was yet moonless, and as the sky was overclouded,
was consequently a dark one; and the adventurers could distinguish little else but the dark
outlines of the Green Mountains, that rose high in the western heavens, casting, by their huge
shadows, an impenetrable pall of darkness over the intervening space beneath, from which not
a sound rose to the ear, save an occasional short croak of some waterfowl, or the low, sullen
dash of the waters along the shores.

"Nothing out on the pond, guess, but loons, ducks, and sich like," quietly observed Bart, raising
himself from his listening attitude; "nor can I make out any sounds from the nest of 'em you
say there is over on the shore yonder. Ma'be they've pulled up stakes and are off with their
traps, the wimin folks and all--shouldn't wonder, single bit."

"Now I reason a little ditter different," replied the sergeant. "They may be getting oneasy
and suspicious, because their spies we took there at Coffin's don't return; and so keep still,
and put out their fires, lest the absent ones be dogged back, and their rendezvous thus discovered;
but I der don't believe the company would clear out till they knew what become of them. They
are still there, I'm apt to think; so we will now put forward--first up north a piece, on this
side, and then across and down to a little cove there is near their encampment."

So saying, Dunning took up one of the oars, and, with long vigorous, but noiseless strokes,
sent the boat rapidly ahead; while the other took a position most favorable for a lookout.
In this manner, and taking turns at the oar, they soon, by the course they had marked out for
themselves, reached the western side of the pond, and, heading round, moved cautiously along
the shore towards the hostile encampment.

"Ah! there! one--two--yes, three camp fires, T can der catch glimmers of occasionally," softly
exclaimed Dunning, rising up in the boat, and peering ahead for observation. "I was right--the
ditter rapscallions are there, snug in their quarters, but had wit enough to build their fires
behind logs, or something, so as not to be seen from 'tother side. We are within the ditter
matter of three hundred yards of 'em, now; so carefully, Bart, and don't let your oar graze
the boat, or any thing, to give out the least sound; for they've ears, it's der probable, as
well as we."

A short time now sufficed to bring them to the small cove, at which the hunter had proposed
to land. Here, under the screen of an impervious tangle of brushwood and fallen tree tops,
which intervened between them and the foe, they drew up their boat on to the shore. They then,
after taking off their shoes, which they left in the canoe, carefully crawled up the bank,
passed round the thicket, and paused to listen. The sounds of voices conversing in low tones
in one spot, the slow steps of a sentinel in another, and the snoring of some hard sleeper
in a third, were soon detected by the quick ears of the anxious listeners.

"As I thought," whispered Dunning, putting his mouth close to the ear of the other: "the head
ones are ditter suspicious, and watchful; but we must try what can be done--at least to find
the spot where they've put the gals. There's a ditter old shanty I used to camp in, about fifty
yards ahead; and as that is probably the best they've got, I've been thinking they may have
cooped 'em in there. Suppose you, who are lightest and smallest, creep forward to it, for ditter
discoveries. I will follow half way, and wait."

Without demurring to the suggestion, Bart immediately set forward, on his hands and knees,
in the direction indicated by his companion. Carefully removing every dry twig and leaf from
each place where he wished to bear his weight, and moving as noiselessly as the preying cat
along the ground, he made his way onward till he had gone far enough, as he judged, to reach
the expected shanty; when he paused to listen and reconnoitre. But now all seemed perfectly
still. Not the slightest sound of any kind reached his ears; while it had, in some unaccountable
manner, suddenly become so pitchy dark that he could not distinguish a single object before
him. And he began to feel confused and doubtful about proceeding, when, by the action of those
secret and undefinable sympathies, perhaps, by which, it is said, we sometimes become apprised
of the presence of others before we are informed by the senses, he all at once became impressed
with the idea that some person was near him. He therefore strained his senses to the utmost
in trying to discover what objects might be before or around him; but all, for a while, to
no purpose. In a short time, however, his ear caught the sound of a deep sigh, the softness
of which told him it came from a female, within a few feet of him. With a palpitating heart,
he now doubtfully attempted to move forward, when he suddenly perceived his head on the point
of coming in contact with some broad, high obstacle, which seemed to rise like a wall before
him, Surprised, and still more confused than before, he retreated a few paces, and looked upward,
to try to make out the nature of the obstacle before him; when he discovered it to be the backside
of the very shanty of which he was in search. The strange darkness, which had so suddenly overshadowed
him, and which was caused by the obstruction of the skylight by this rude structure, being
now explained, and every thing made clear to his mind, he cautiously moved round towards the
front of the shanty, to find the entrance, no longer doubting that those he sought were within.
On reaching the front corner, so as to enable him to peer round it on that side, he soon made
out the entrance; but directly across it, to his disappointment, he discovered the half-recumbent
form of a man, with a musket leaning on his shoulder. After a few hurried observations, in
which he discovered, by the decaying fires before them several other shanties or tents among
the trees, a few rods in front, Bart again slunk back to the spot he had just left, and was
about to retrace his way to his companion, when a new thought occurred to him, and, moving
up to the back of the shanty, which was formed by broad pieces of thick bark standing slantingly
against a pole supported by crotches, and, placing his mouth to a crack, softly whispered the
names of the captives, and turned his ear to the spot to catch the hoped-for response. For
the first moment, all was still but the next, the catching of a long-suspended breath, and
even, as he thought, the rapid beatings of a fluttering bosom, became audible. Presently a
slight movement, as of a cautiously changed posture, was heard within; and the next instant
a pair of soft lips came in contact with his ear at the crevice, articulating, in sounds scarcely
above the slightest murmur of the air,--

"Who speaks my name?"

"Bart," replied the other. "You know what I'm after. Can one of the barks between us be removed
without alarming your keeper?"

"I fear--but he seems asleep--try it," was the measured and hesitating reply.

After slightly essaying several of the pieces of the bark he wished to remove, he at length
commenced operations at the bottom of one of them, and gently forcing it aside, inch by inch,
in a short time effected an opening sufficient, as he judged, for the egress of the captives,
and that too, he felt confident, without attracting the attention of the dozing guard.

"Now feel your way out; and, without stirring a twig or leaf creep on after me," whispered Bart.

And receding a few paces from the opening, he paused to await the result. In a moment he had
the satisfaction of perceiving a female form slowly emerging from the narrow passage into the
open air without.

Supposing her companion to be immediately behind, he now, with a whispered word of encouragement,
led the way from the spot. With frequent pauses, both to assure himself that he was followed
by his charge, and to listen for any stir among the foe that should indicate a discovery of
the escape, he continued to creep forward till he encountered Dunning, when, the latter taking
the lead, they all moved on, one after another, in the same cautious manner as before, and
soon reached the landing in safety; out as they emerged from the bushes, and the hunter turned
to congratulate the ladies on their escape, it was now, for the first time, discovered that
but one of them was present.

"Bart, how is this? ditter tell me--where is the other?" demanded Dunning, in a tone of disappointment
and vexation.

But Bart, equally disappointed and perplexed, was mute; and the lady, who proved to be Miss
Howard, replied,--

"Miss Haviland, if not retaken, is now wandering in the woods."

"Der wandering in ditter woods, and you not with her?" again demanded the former with an air
of mingled surprise and reproach.

"Yes sir, but I did not intend to desert her," promptly replied the girl. "Perceiving we were
not watched very closely by the man they put over us, she and I had thought of a plan of escaping
into the woods and getting round into the road. And while he was talking with another, that
he had stepped forward a little ways to meet, we slipped out undiscovered, and gained a thicket;
when finding I had left my shawl, I, contrary to Miss Haviland's advice, I will own, ventured
back to get it, and was detected, just as I was leaving the shanty a second time, and her absence
discovered. This made a stir among them, and they ordered off scouts after her along the pond
towards the road, which was the way I pointed when they were threatening me if I didn't tell.
But she must have heard all and escaped."

"Escaped! ditter deuse of an escape that; for a woman to get out into a forest full of Indians
in search of her," replied the still unreconciled hunter. "But what course has she der taken,
think ye, gal?"

"The one we planned, likely; and that was, to take a wide sweep round their camp, gain the
road, and make for the tavern, which she said was not far off," replied the other.

"Well," said Dunning, in a more mollified tone, "though der dogs is in the luck, to be sure,
yet half a loaf is better than none. We must save what we have got; so into the canoe there
with ye, gal; and you, Bart, take her across, der find Harry, whom I'd ditter rather you would
meet first, and tell him you have left me this side to go in search of the other, who, if found,
can most likely be got to the road as well the way she set out as this, in the shape things
now stand."

Although this conversation scarcely occupied a minute, and although, while the hunter was yet
speaking, Bart and his fair friend were in their respective positions in the boat, which instantly
shot out silently and swiftly into the pond, under the vigorous push given it by the former,
yet the event showed that they had been none too speedy in their movements; for, at that instant,
a sudden bustle in the tory encampment, which was quickly followed by the confused sounds of
voices making rapid inquiries and giving orders, together with the stealthy tread of approaching
footsteps, apprised the fugitives that not only was their escape discovered, but probably also
the direction they had taken.

"Der narve it, narve it, Bart! The ditter divils are after ye!" shouted the hunter, hastily
retreating from the shore and disappearing in the nearest thicket.

And scarcely had he gained a covert before his place was occupied by four or five of the enemy,
who came rushing down to the water; when, discovering the receding boat, then not fifty yards
distant, the acting leader of the band fiercely exclaimed "Put about there instantly, and come
ashore, or we'll fire and kill every person in the boat!"

"O, but you'll kill us if we come back," replied Bart, splashing round his oar as if turning
the boat, which in fact was going swiftly ahead.

"No, we won't," responded the leader, deceived by the apparent simplicity of the reply; "but
be quick, or we fire!"

"Well, seeing you aint going to hurt us," said the former, carelessly while at the same time
directing, in a whisper, the girl to throw herself close on the bottom of the canoe, he silently,
but with all his might, bent himself to the oar.

"Why," said the leader, after a short and doubtful pause, as he peered out in the darkness
at the dimly-seen boat--"why, aint the fellow still moving ahead? He is, confound him: fire!"

"Let drive, then!" sung out Bart, with the greatest sang froid, as he hastily cast himself
down in the boat.

The next instant several bullets struck the boat, or whistled over it, as the fierce flashings
and deafening reports of as many exploding muskets burst from the shore with startling effect
on the darkness and silence of night.

"I vown! but that an't so bad shooting as might be, in the dark so," exclaimed Bart, hastily
springing up and seizing his oar. "They are more at the business than I thought 'em; and we
may as well be a little further off afore they have time to load and fire agin, guess," he
added, suddenly changing the direction of the beat from the course it had been taking, and
plying the oar with an energy which showed rather less indifference to his proximity to the
hostile marksmen behind him than his words might seem to imply.

The tories, in the mean while, who had foolishly all discharged their pieces at once, fell
to loading again as fast as was possible for them to do in the dark. But before any of them
was ready to fire, the last traces of the fugitive boat had vanished from their view.

They were, however, after giving vent to their vexation in a volley of curses upon the fellow
who had thus outwitted them, in getting beyond controlling distance, preparing to fire again,
at random, in the direction in which the canoe was last seen moving, when their attention was
suddenly arrested by firing in the woods a short distance to the south, which seemed to be
an exchange of shots between their pickets and some enemy assailing them from that direction.
They therefore hurried back to their companions, and with them rallied to make a stand against
the force which all supposed was about to storm their encampment. But to their agreeable disappointment,
though an occasional shot continued to be directed towards them by persons who seemed to be
lurking in the distant thickets, no tangible force made its appearance for the firing which
had so alarmed them, and caused them to call in all their scouts within hearing, and make every
preparation for a desperate resistance, was, as the reader will have already imagined, but
the feint made by Woodburn's party, who, hearing the reports of the guns discharged at the
escaping canoe, and partly divining the cause, had advanced from their concealment, and begun
to make the diversion agreed on at the outset. But not receiving the signal promised, in case
help was needed, and feeling doubtful how to act, most of them fell back, and ceased operations,
till Bart, who had, in the mean time, reached the shore, and, with the fearless girl he had
released, hastened round to their post, arrived and informed them of all that had occurred.
On receiving this aggravating intelligence, Woodburn, now almost frantic with disappointment
and anxiety, instantly withdrew to the road with all his band, except two left to keep the
enemy in a state of alarm; when they all, including even the heroic Vine Howard, immediately
scattered in different directions through the dark forest in anxious search for the luckless
Miss Haviland, to whom we will now return, for the purpose of following her in the wild and
perillous adventures she was destined to encounter on that eventful night.

CHAPTER VII.

  "Unshrinking from the storm,
     Well have ye borne your part,
   With woman's fragile form,
     But more than manhood's heart"--Whittier

The observation is no less true than trite, that no one knows till he has tried it, what he
can do or endure. And as just as is the remark in a general application, it is, we apprehend,
more strikingly so when applied to the gentler sex; for, from the position they occupy in social
life, their powers of action or endurance are so seldom fully put to the test, that they are
generally far less conscious than men of what deeds they might accomplish or what degree of
suffering they might endure, in emergencies calculated to call forth the highest energies of
their physical and moral natures. And if there be any disparity between the number of heroes
and heroines in the world, such emergencies as we have named are only wanting, we believe,
to make up any deficiency that may be found in the latter.

When Miss Haviland ascertained that her too venturous companion had been intercepted and retaken,
in the manner mentioned in the preceding chapter, she for a moment greatly hesitated whether
to return and yield herself again to her captors, or persevere in her attempt to escape. But,
beginning to suspect the true source of the present misfortune, which, if her suspicions were
just, pointed only at herself, and thinking that her escape would soon lead to the voluntary
release of her companion, she quickly decided on the latter alternative, and glided noiselessly
away into the depths of the forest.

After proceeding in a direct course from the camp to such a distance as should preclude the
possibility that any ordinary sound made in walking through the woods would reach her captors,
unless they were in actual pursuit behind, of which her often strained senses had as yet given
her no evidence, she turned short to the south, and, in pursuance of the hasty plan formed
by herself and companion at the outset, now made her way, as fast as the darkness and the usual
obstacles of the woods would permit, towards the road, her only guide being the parallel swells
of land, which, running north and south, rose, as she had luckily noticed before dark, in successive
lifts up the mountain to the west. Still hearing no sounds of pursuit, she began to entertain
strong hopes that she should be permitted to reach the road unmolested. In this, however, she
was doomed to be disappointed; for, in a short time, a cracking, as of dry twigs under the
tread of some one stealthily advancing, arrested her attention, and brought her to a stand.
Fortunately, no part of her dress was sufficiently light-colored to betray her. And, having
nothing to fear from this, and believing that, by placing herself in close contact with some
natural object, she might still have a good chance to be passed undetected, she glided to the
nearest tree, and, placing her back to the side opposite to the suspected foe, awaited his
approach in breathless silence. Presently he came up, and, after pausing a moment within a
few yards of her, apparently to listen and reconnoitre, he passed by so near as to graze the
bark of the tree behind which she stood, and moved carelessly on some distance before again
pausing to repeat his reconnoissance.

