Although we do not possess a definite history of Paestum, similar to that of Rome or of Athens,
yet from the many allusions to be found scattered throughout the pages of classical historians,
as well as from the various inscriptions and devices found upon ancient coins of this city,
it is not a difficult task to piece together the main features of Poseidonian annals. From
a very remote period of antiquity there was undoubtedly a settlement on or near the coast to
the south of the river Silarus, whilst it is commonly held that this spot was called Peste—a
name almost identical with the modern Italian appellation—many hundreds of years before the
arrival of Doric settlers on the shores of the Tyrrhene Sea. Late in the seventh century before
Christ, the Greek colony of Poseidonia, the city of the Sea God, was founded on or near the
site of Italian Peste by certain Hellenic adventurers from Trœzen, who were amongst the inhabitants
of Sybaris, at that time one of the most flourishing of the famous cities of Magna Graecia:
and this new colony of Trœzenians henceforward was accounted one of the twenty-five subject-towns
that recognised Sybaris for their metropolis, or mother and suzerain city. We have no details
of its early history, but it is quite certain that under the protection of Sybaris the new
city of Poseidonia rose by degrees to such wealth and importance that in course of time it
gave its own name to the whole Bay of Salerno, which henceforth became known to the Greeks
as the Poseidonian Gulf and later, to the Romans, as the Bay of Paestum. With the fall of the
mother city, this flourishing colony was left alone to face the attacks of the Samnites, the
native barbarians who peopled the dense forests and the barren mountains of Lucania; yet it
somehow contrived to retain its independence until the close of the fourth century B.C., when
the Samnite hordes, forcing the fortified line of the Silarus, made themselves masters of Poseidonia,
and put an end, practically for ever, to its existence as a purely Hellenic city. From its
Lucanian masters the captured town received the name of Paestum, and its inhabitants were at
once deprived of their independence, were forbidden to carry arms, and were probably in many
instances reduced to the level of serfs. A large number of Samnites also settled within the
walls of the town, and compelled the former owners to surrender to them the larger and richer
portion of the public and private lands upon the maritime plain. The use of the Hellenic language
and public worship were however permitted, and, strange to relate, no interference was made
with a solemn annual festival, which the depressed and enslaved population now inaugurated
with the confessed object of remembering for ever their Greek origin and their former greatness.
For once a year at a fixed date all Greeks were wont to gather together and to bewail in public,
outside the great temple of Poseidon, their lost liberty and their vanished power. It is evident
that the Lucanians did not fear the tears and lamentations of this unhappy subject state, for
this custom continued to be observed throughout the whole period of Samnite oppression, and
survived even till Roman times—perhaps to the very end of the city’s existence,—although in
the course of passing generations there could have been but few persons of pure Greek descent
left in the place.

With the advent of Alexander of Epirus, who had been called into Italy by the Greeks of Tarentum
in order to assist the sorely-pressed colonies of Magna Graecia, Epirot troops were landed
at the mouth of the Silarus. Under the very walls of Paestum there now took place a stubborn
fight wherein the army of the Samnites was completely routed, and its survivors driven in confusion
from the coast into the wild woods and rocky valleys of the Lucanian hills. For a brief interval
of years Poseidonia regained its lost liberty and its Hellenic name, but with the overthrow
and death of Alexander of Epirus, the scattered hordes pressed down once more from their mountain
fastnesses upon the rich plain, and the city was for the second time enslaved by the ruder
conquering race. Forty years later, after the Pyrrhine war, all Lucania fell under the rising
power of Rome, a change that was by no means unacceptable to the Greek cities, which were groaning
under the rude tyranny of the Samnites. A Latin colony was now planted at Paestum, to form
a convenient centre whence the neighbouring district could be kept in order and peaceably developed
according to Roman ideas. These Roman colonists, although they did not restore the lands and
buildings held by the expelled Samnites to their rightful owners, yet lived on terms of amity
with the Greek population, with whom they must have freely intermarried. The original Hellenic
inhabitants, relieved of the bonds of servitude, were now placed on an equal footing with the
new colonists, partaking of political rights in the city thus freshly re-created under the
supremacy of Rome, and soon they grew to imitate the speech and manners of their new masters,
so that as an immediate result of the expulsion of the barbaric Samnites and the entry of the
progressive Romans, Paestum began to recover a considerable portion of its ancient splendour.

During the course of the second Punic War the name of Paestum is not unfrequently mentioned
in Roman annals, and owing its revived prosperity to its annexation by Rome, it is not surprising
to find the existence of a strong feeling of gratitude amongst the inhabitants. At the date
of fatal Cannæ this faithful Greek city sent assurances of unswerving allegiance to the Senate,
and also more substantial help in the form of all the golden vessels from its temples. It was
Paestum also that early in the third century B.C. supplied part of the ill-fated fleet of Decius
Quinctius, that was raised to run the blockade of Tarentum. But even the loss of its ships
and men did not deter this loyal city from coming forward a second time with expressions of
fealty and promise of further aid to the great suzerain city in this dark hour of its difficulties.
From this point onward till the close of the Republic, History is almost silent with regard
to Paestum; but its numerous coins go far to attest its continued welfare, for it now shared,
together with Venusia, Brundusium and Vibo Valentia, a special right to strike money in its
own name and with its own devices. Under the Empire, Paestum managed to uphold its size and
importance, so that it became the capital of one of the eight Prefectures into which the district
of Lucania had been divided. At this period, there can be no doubt, the surrounding plain was
in the highest state of cultivation, whilst its prolific rose-gardens—biferi rosaria Paesti—have
supplied the theme of every Roman poet from Vergil to Ausonius. Yet in spite of its apparent
prosperity, the seeds of coming decline had already been sown. Strabo tells us that even in
early Imperial days the city was obtaining an unenviable reputation for malaria: a circumstance
that was due to the over-flowing of the unwholesome streamlet, the Salso, whose reeking and
fever-bearing waters began to impregnate the earth. Engineering works on a large scale were
planned to remedy this drawback, but these were never executed, and in consequence the unhealthiness
of the place increased. With the decline of the Roman power the population and prosperity of
Paestum likewise tended to lessen, so that its citizens were placed in a worse position than
before with regard to the carrying out of this vast but necessary scheme of sanitation.

In a spot so accessible to external influence, it is easy to understand that Christianity early
took root in Paestum, which in the fifth century of our own era had already become a bishopric.
The story of the growth of the Faith in Lucania is closely connected with a legend that centres
round a native of the place, a certain Gavinius, a general in the army of the Emperor Valentinian,
who whilst serving in Britain against the Picts by some means succeeded in obtaining a valuable
relic, supposed to be nothing less than the body of the Apostle Matthew, which he brought back
with him to his native place. Early in the ninth century there appeared a fresh cause of alarm,
more serious and far-reaching even than the dreaded malaria, for plundering Saracens, foes
alike to the old Roman civilisation and to the new Christian creed, now began to harass the
Tyrrhenian shores. Settling at Agropoli to the south of the Bay, these Oriental freebooters
found little difficulty in effecting a landing on the Poseidonian beach, and in raiding the
weakened and almost defenceless city. Able-bodied men and young maidens were forcibly carried
off to the pirates’ nest at Agropoli, or perhaps even to the distant coast of Barbary, to be
sold into perpetual slavery. Alarmed beyond measure by this raid, the remaining inhabitants
of the place, at the advice and under the guidance of their bishop, now decided—wisely, for
they had to choose between immediate flight or gradual extermination by disease, slavery and
the sword—to remove themselves to the barren mountains in their rear, once the haunts of the
Samnites, and to build a new Paestum on a site at once more healthy and better protected by
Nature against the raids of infidel corsairs. In a body therefore the remaining citizens amid
deep wailing left for ever the ancient city with its glorious temples, and retired to a strong
position to the east. The spot chosen for the new residence of these exiles lay close to the
source that supplied with pure water their ancient aqueduct, known for this reason as Caputaqueum,
now corrupted into Capaccio. A link with the old city, that lay deserted in the plain below,
was still retained by the bishop of the newly founded town in the mountains, who continued
to be known as Episcopus Paestanus. In the eleventh century Robert Guiscard systematically
plundered the ruins of Paestum in order to erect or embellish the churches and palaces of Salerno
and Amalfi. Every remaining piece of sculpture and of marble was removed, and it was only the
vast size of the pillars of the three great temples, and the consequent difficulty attending
their transport by boat across the bay or along the marshy ground of the coast line, that saved
from destruction these magnificent relics of “the glory that was Greece.” But even humble Capaccio
did not afford a final resting-place to the harried Paestani, for in the year 1245 the great
Emperor Frederick II., who had been defied by the feudal Counts of Capaccio, besieged and utterly
destroyed this stronghold of the mountains that had been the child of Poseidonia of the sea-girt
plains. Another and a yet loftier retreat had to be sought by the survivors of the Imperial
vengeance, so that the ruined Capaccio the Old was abandoned for another settlement, which
still exists as a miserable village amidst those barren hills that had ever looked down with
jealous envy upon the proud city with its pillared temples. One curious circumstance with regard
to Paestum must finally be mentioned, in that the existence of its ruins, the grandest and
most ancient group of monuments on the mainland of Italy, remained unknown to the learned world
until comparatively modern times. Only the local peasants and the inhabitants of the poverty-stricken
towns in the Lucanian hills seem to have been aware of the presence of the gigantic temples
standing in lonely majesty by the shore and as the superstitious nature of these ignorant people
attributed these structures to the work of a magician—perhaps to the great wizard Vergil himself—they
were shunned both by night and by day as the haunt of malignant spirits. Poor fisher-folk and
buffalo-drivers, who had of necessity to pass near the ruined fanes, were wont to slink by
in fear and trembling, and doubtless they brought back strange stories of its ghostly occupants
with which they regaled their friends or families by the fire-side of a winter’s evening. Yet
it is most strange that during the period of the Renaissance, at a time when enthusiastic research
was being made into the neglected antiquities of Italy, this unique group of Doric temples
should have escaped notice. For neither Cyriaco of Ancona nor Leandro Alberti, who visited
Lucania ostensibly for the sake of recording its classical remains, make mention of “the ruined
majesty of Paestum,” and it was reserved for a certain Count Gazola (whose name is certainly
worthy of being recorded), an officer in the service of the Neapolitan King, to present to
the notice of scholars and archaeologists towards the middle of the eighteenth century the
first known description of what is perhaps Italy’s chief existing treasure of antiquity. From
Gazola’s day onward the beauty and interest of Paestum have been appraised at their true worth,
and numberless artists and writers of almost every nationality have sketched or described its
marvellous temples.

With this brief introduction to the history of a city, whose chief building is still standing
almost intact after a lapse of 2500 years, let us take a rapid survey of Poseidonia as it exists
to-day. Its walls, of Greek construction but probably built or restored as late as the time
of Alexander of Epirus, who gave the captured town a fleeting spell of liberty, form an irregular
pentagon about three miles in circumference, whereon the remains of eight towers can be observed,
whilst the four gates, placed at the four cardinal points of the compass, are clearly traceable.
We enter this città morta by the so-called Porta della Sirena, the eastern gate that faces
the hostile Samnite Hills and (oh, the prosaic touch!) the modern railway-station. This gate
remains in a tolerable state of preservation, and draws its name from the key-stone of its
arch, which bears in low relief a much defaced design of a mermaid or siren, its counterpart
on the inner keystone being a dolphin: two devices very appropriate to the entrance of a city
dedicated to the Lord of Ocean. Passing the picturesque yellow-washed Villa Salati, with its
high walls and iron-barred windows testifying only too plainly to the lawlessness that once
reigned in this district, we find ourselves face to face with the great temple of Neptune or
Poseidon, and its companion-fane, the so-called Basilica. The Temple of Neptune (for in this
instance at least the popular appellation chances to be the correct one), in all probability
co-eval with the first Greek foundation of the city, formed the central point of the life of
Poseidonia during the 1400 years of its existence as a Hellenic, a Samnite, and finally a Roman
city. In its simple grandeur and its perfect proportions this wonderful temple possesses only
one rival outside Greece itself: the Temple of Concord at Girgenti, which the poet Goethe compared
to a god, after designating the building before us as a giant. Superiority in grace is therefore
a disputed point between the two great structures of Poseidonia and Agrigentum, yet in every
other respect the temple of the Lucanian Plain surpasses its Sicilian rival.

To-day, after more than a score of centuries of exposure to the salt winds and to the burning
sunshine of the south, the walls and pillars of these great buildings have been calcined to
a glorious shade of tawny yellow, fit to delight the soul of every artist, whether he views
their Titanic but graceful forms outlined against the deep blue of sky and sea on the western
horizon, or against the equally lovely background of grey and violet mountains to the east.
But it was not always thus. The porous local travertine that gave their building material to
the Greeks of the sixth century before Christ was once carefully stuccoed, and, in the manner
of Hellenic art, painted in the most brilliant hues of azure and vermilion, so that it becomes
hard for us to realise the original effect of such gorgeous masses standing erect in a landscape
that is itself fraught with glowing colour. But better to appreciate the magnificence before
us, let us give a brief technical description of the greatest of the temples in the choice
words of an eminent French antiquary.

“The largest and most elegant, and likewise the oldest of the Temples of Paestum, is that commonly
known by the name of the Temple of Neptune. This building shares, together with the Temple
of Theseus at Athens, the honour of being the best preserved monument of the Doric order in
existence, and the impression of grandeur that it gives to the spectator rivals even the first
sight of the Parthenon itself. In front of the building is a platform in the midst of which
can be seen the hollow space that formerly held the altar of sacrifice, for according to the
practice of the Greek religion, these rites of blood-shedding took place in the open air and
outside the temple. With a length of 190 feet and a breadth of 84 feet, this building is hypoethral,
which means that the cella, or sanctuary that held the statue of the deity, was constructed
open to the sky. It is peripteral, and presents a row of six pillars fluted at base and top,
with twelve on each side, making thirty-six in all. The cella itself in the interior is upheld
by sixteen columns about six feet in diameter, which in their turn are surmounted by two rows
of smaller pillars above that support the roof. With the exception of one side of the upper
stage of the interior every column of the temple remains intact, as do likewise the entablature
and pediments. Only the wall of the cella has been pulled down; doubtless to supply material
for building.”(8)

