"No, indeed," said Elsie; "as Burns says, 'crooning to a body's sel' does weel eneugh;' but
my crooning is not fit for company, except that of uncritical children."

"You know I am as uncritical as the veriest child," said Brandon. "I must have given you a
very erroneous impression of my character, if you can feel the least awe of me; but I recollect
your twisting a very innocent speech of mine, the first evening I had the pleasure of meeting
you, into something very severe. That was rather ill natured."

"Alice is not ill-natured at all," said Emily. "Aunt Harriett sometimes is. She is looking
cross at me now for talking while she is singing."

"It is very rude in all of us," said Elsie, composing herself to give attention to Miss Phillips's
song.

"I tell you what, you dear old boy," whispered Emily. "I don't think Alice will sing here,
or tell you any of her lovely stories; but I will smuggle you into the nursery some day, and
you will just have a treat."

"What have I done since I came to England," said Brandon in the same undertone, "that I should
have been banished in this cruel way from the nursery? Did you ever refuse me admission at
Wiriwilta--did not I kiss every one of you in your little nightclothes, and see you tucked
into bed? If I was worthy of that honour then, why am I debarred from it now?"

"You saved our lives, papa says--you and Peggy--and so we always liked you; and, for my part,
I like you as well as ever I did now; but we are in England now, and it is so different from
Wiriwilta--dear old Wiriwilta, I wish I was back to it. I wish papa was not so rich, for then
we would go back again; but it's no use as long as he has got enough of money to stay here.
The letters that came the other day--you recollect."

"I got none," said Brandon; "I suppose mine are sent by Southampton."

"Well, I don't think they had good news, or papa's face looked rather long, and he has been
so quiet and dull ever since; so I am in hopes that things are not going very well without
him, and then we will have another beautiful long voyage with you, and get back to dear, darling
Australia again. Harriett wants to go back too."

"What a chatterbox you are, Emily," said her aunt, who had finished her song. "It is quite
time you were in bed."

"Not quite, auntie; papa said I might sit up till ten tonight; and Mr. Brandon and I are so
busy talking about old times, that I do not feel it a bit late."

"Old times, indeed," said Harriett; "what old times can a little chit like you find to talk of?"

"Oh, the dear old times at Wiriwilta, when we were such friends; and, the time that I cannot
recollect of when there was the fire, and Peggy and this old fellow saved our lives. I wish
I could remember about it--mamma does, though."

"Indeed I do," said Mrs. Phillips, with a tranquil expression of satisfaction at the thought
of the danger she had escaped. "We was all in terrible danger, and all through that horrid
doctor. Stanley should have let me have my own way, and taken me to Melbourne; but he would
not listen to reason."

"Well, Lily, you are none of the worse now, and I hope you do not feel it burdensome to be
so much obliged to our old friend Brandon."

"Oh no, not at all."

"You need not be," said he, laughing; "don't attempt to make a hero of me: a mere neighbourly
good turn happened to have important consequences. Peggy's conduct was far beyond mine."

"But you were badly scorched," said Emily. "Do let us see the scar on your arm once more--I
have not seen it in England." Brandon indulged the child; turned up his sleeve, and Emily gave
the arm a hug and a kiss.

This was rather a strange exhibition for a drawing-room, Harriett Phillips thought, but Brandon
never was much of a gentleman. Even Stanley had sadly fallen back in his manners in Australia,
and what could be expected of Brandon? Mr. Hogarth had more taste; he had the dignified reserve
of a man of birth and fortune; he had made remarks on her musical performance that showed he
was really a judge. It was not often that she had met with any man so variously accomplished,
or so perfectly well bred. He had promised to accompany them to the exhibition of paintings
on the morrow, and she had great pleasure in anticipating his society, if it were not for the
thought of her bonnet.

Chapter IX.

A Bonnet Gained And A Lover Lost

"My letters have come at last," said Brandon, next morning, as he joined his friends at breakfast.
"My overseer, I suppose, wanted to show his economy, and posted them by the Southampton mail,
which does not suit me at all. I would rather do without my dinner on mail-day than have my
letters delayed for nearly a week. And now there is bad news for me, I must leave by the first
ship. Had I got my letters when you received yours, I should have gone by the mail steamer
and saved a month, but I cannot possibly manage to get off so soon."

"Oh! Mr. Brandon," said Mrs. Phillips, calmly, "there surely is no such need for hurry."

"Everything is going to the dogs at my station. I will probably have to buy land at a high
price; and there appears to have been great mismanagement, from the accounts I hear. Another
six months like the last and I will be a ruined man. It is very hard that one cannot take a
short holiday without suffering so grievously for it. What were your accounts, Phillips; I
think you said they were rather unsatisfactory?"

"Not very good, certainly; but not so bad as that comes to. You will look to Wiriwilta a little
when you return, and send me your opinion. I had better entrust you with full powers to act
for me, for I should prefer you as my attorney to Grant."

"I hope he will not be offended at the transfer," said Brandon.

"Oh! I think not; he took it very reluctantly, for he said his own affairs were enough for him."

"And perhaps a little more than enough," said Brandon, with a smile. "In that case I will be
very glad to do all in my power for you."

"I have no wish to return to Australia," said Mr. Phillips, "if I can possibly afford to live
here. With a family like mine, England offers so many advantages. In fact, there is only one
place in the world worth living in, and that is London."

"Very true, if you have enough to live on," said Brandon, shrugging his shoulders. "I must
go now to work as hard as ever to get things set to rights again, and perhaps in another dozen
of years, when I am feeble, old, and grey, I may return and spend the poor remnant of my days
in this delightful centre of civilization. But with me, fortunately, there are only the two
alternatives, either London or the bush of Australia--there is no middle course of life desirable.
If I cannot attain the one, I must make the best of the other."

Harriett Phillips listened to all this, and believed that matters were much worse with Brandon
than they really were. She had no fancy for a twelve years' banishment from England, nor for
a rough life in the bush. Mr. Brandon had been represented to her as a thriving settler who
had made money. She saw the very comfortable style in which her brother lived, and she had
no objection to such an establishment for herself; but she was not so particularly fond of
Mr. Brandon as to accept for his sake a life so very different and so very much inferior. She
felt that she had been deceived, and she did not like being deceived, or mistaken, and she
still less liked to make mistakes; and instead of blaming herself, she was angry with everyone
else--her brother, her sister-in-law, Brandon himself--for leading her to believe that his
circumstances were so much better than they were. Of course, he would ask her--he could not
help doing so; but as to accepting him--that was quite a different question.

