Facing the store, and along the side of the road, a row of posts fitted with ring-bolts stood
for the convenience of customers who came in riding or driving, and chose to hitch up their
horses. A verandah, ten feet wide, and with a roof resting on square, hard-wood posts, ornamented
the front of the building, and formed, to the majority of the Birralong folk, its chief attraction--for
it was here that men gathered to smoke a friendly pipe with one another, and discuss such items
of news as are likely to be met with in a bush township. As a general rule, these related to
the domestic and private affairs of neighbours, and it was said that if any one had a doubt
as to the course which events and circumstances were taking with him, he had only to ascertain
what was said on Marmot's verandah; every one's business was known better there than to the
persons whom it mostly concerned.

The number of houses which made up the township was not large. A hundred yards back from the
roadway the local saw-mill made the air melodious, all the working hours of the day, with the
ringing song and whirr of the buzz-saws--a pleasant sound to listen to from the cool shade
of a verandah on the hot, drowsy days of summer, when the clear, dry air was redolent with
the scent from the neighbouring gums. Farther down the township stood the local smithy, where,
bush horses rarely being shod, the work of the smith was combined with that of wheelwright
and the making of galvanized iron water-tanks. An occasional job of repairing some farming
implement necessitated the blowing up of the forge and the swinging of the anvil hammers, the
sounds of which, mingling with those of the buzz-saws, would have led a chance visitor to regard
Birralong as a thriving, busy centre.

Beyond the smithy were the school-house and the local constable's cottage, a few more cottages
occupied by the schoolmaster, the smith, the saw-miller, and some unofficial residents, and,
at the end of all, the Carrier's Rest, the township hotel. The roadway through the town was
very dusty, and the dust, in the long, hot, dry seasons, lay upon the iron roofs of the houses--tin,
it was locally called--and clung to the verandah posts and walls. A passing traveller on horseback,
or in a dray, raised clouds of it, which drifted over everything and covered everything with
a light film, but yet did not drive the inhabitants into the Carrier's Rest, for the Birralong
people were sober, as they usually are in bush townships--sober, that is, as things are understood
in the Southern Land of sunshine and freedom. Occasionally a man would come down the road who
perhaps had not seen so much civilization for years before; who had, perhaps for years, been
away in some outlying portion of the outlying West, boundary riding round a paddock or stock
riding on a station; or, perchance, fossicking up and down the gullies of broken country under
the mistaken idea that the specks and grains of gold he found, and which just kept him in "tucker,"
would lead him some day to a mighty reef which would make him a millionaire in a night; but
who, in all those years, had drunk nothing but tea or water, and eaten nothing but beef and
damper, living a glorious, free, untrammelled life, with the scent of the eucalypt ever in
his nostrils and the pure, clear air of the bush ever in his lungs. And such a man, entering
upon a new world, as it were, in his return to civilization, would greet that civilization--with
a nip.

In an hour he would be "on a bender;" in three he would be "on the bust;" in six the "town
would be red;" and soon afterwards the man himself would be stretched out across the door of
the Carrier's Rest, senseless, helpless, "blind." Any one entering or leaving the bar stepped
over him as he lay, so as not to disturb him while he was "sleeping it off" in the cool; and
possibly some looked down on him with pity, and some with contempt, while yet others were moved
to envy and exultant admiration. But generally the township went to Marmot's rather than to
the Rest--generally.

There were occasions--such as when a Queensland horse won the Melbourne Cup, or when a drought
broke up, or produce values took a leap, or the resident constable was transferred--when the
township, speaking figuratively, migrated from one end of the town to the other, and Marmot's
was deserted for the good of the Rest. There was a breezy freshness in the neighbourhood then,
a wave of primitive goodfellowship, as it were, with a period of hazy indistinctness separating
it from the time when the rising sun brought with it a succeeding wave of virtuous antagonism
and a distressing dryness of the throat.

But such occasions were rare--too rare, some thought--and, as a general thing, Birralong had
a reputation for sobriety, and maintained it with dignity.

A few days before, there had arrived at the Carrier's Rest a party of three men, who were on
their way to the West, where, according to the story they told, they had found a wonderfully
rich gold-field. Many a story of that kind had already been told in Birralong, both at the
Rest and on Marmot's verandah, and the Birralong folk were sceptical, especially those who
on former occasions had been induced, on the strength of the story, to furnish stores on credit,
or take a contributing interest in the newly found claim; in either case receiving in return
only the knowledge that, even in matters connected with gold-mining, humanity is sometimes
frail. They had not been averse, however, to pay visits to the Rest and give their support
to the proposals the strangers had made, with the characteristic open-handedness of miners,
to toast success and thumping returns from the new field. But beyond that their enthusiasm
had not gone, except in one instance, and he had thrown in his lot with the three and had journeyed
away in their company.

It was that which was puzzling Birralong. The last man in the district whom they expected to
be carried away by the glib tales of nuggets by the bucketful and gravel running two ounces
to the dish, was Tony Taylor; still less did they expect that he would leave his selection
home, to say nothing of the charms of Birralong and Marmot's verandah, for a wild-cat yarn
of travelling fossickers. He was one of the brightest lights in the district, handsome, dare-devil
Tony. There was not a horse he could not ride, and his rivals had brought some pretty tough
buckjumpers to test him at different times--"fair holy terrors," they called them--but Tony
sat them, even when girth and crupper had carried away. He was the only individual who had
been able to solve the mysteries of the form of the balls and the bumps in the cushions of
the alleged billiard table which the owner of the Rest had bought many years before in a coastal
town, and which had not been improved by a five-weeks' journey inland on a bullock-dray. He
had always held the proud position of "ringer" in the shearing-sheds of the stations round
Birralong, beating all comers by never having a tally of less than a hundred sheep shorn a
day, and that with the old-fashioned hand-shears. The winner of the local races had always
been ridden by Tony, and he had been known to lose the whole of his shearing earnings at euchre
and win them back, together with all the money on the board, by wagering his next year's cheque.
The feminine portion of the population for miles round had a bright eye for Tony whenever he
appeared; but only one did he seriously fancy, according to the authority of Marmot's verandah,
and she, by the same token, fully reciprocated his feelings, and was, moreover, the admitted
beauty of the district. And yet Tony, not apparently on the spur of the moment, but calmly
and with his eyes open, had thrown in his lot with the three fossickers, and had gone off without
scarcely a word to any one. Why, Birralong collectively did not know, for there had not been
time as yet for an assemblage to take place on the verandah of Marmot's store. The riddle would
not long remain unsolved when it had.

The hour of the evening meal had come and gone; the buzz-saws had ceased to whirr and sing
and the anvil hammers to ring through the still, hot air. The sun had left his perch overhead,
and was sinking slowly towards the horizon, making the trees and houses throw long streaks
and patches of shadow of soft purple-blue, which is so peculiarly Australian, across the yellow
dust of the roadway. The mosquitoes were beginning to leave their shelters, and occasionally,
within the shadows, the ping-zing of their high-toned note could be heard as one drifted by
the ear. The wood-fire smoke rose straight and steadily from kitchen chimneys, as the sticks,
set alight to boil the billy for tea, gradually went out, and the aromatic scent of it floated
through the air, seeming to fit in with the chromatic whistle of the magpies from the gum trees
in the paddocks. But the men who were gathered round Marmot's verandah noted nothing of these
things. Marmot himself, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up, sat on a box of Barret twist tobacco
in the doorway, where he had the benefit of any draught there might be, and the majority of
the adult male members of the population were sitting or standing around.

"It gets me. That's what it does, gets me clean," Marmot exclaimed. "Why Tony----well, there,
he's the one lad I'd have taken into the store here to lend me a hand."

The immensity of the admiration and confidence implied by the remark for the moment silenced
every one. No higher compliment could be paid by Marmot.

"It's a darned rum go," Smart, the saw-miller, observed solemnly. "He, who came as a kid and
wanted to see if my band-saw 'ud take his head off in one swish--he, Tony Taylor, who knew
enough at ten to spot the winner of the Cup, to go and get landed by a fossicker's yarn. There's
a darned rum go."

"Yes; and where's the cause of it all?" Marmot asked. "There must be a cause. We'd all be black-fellows
and earth-worms if it wasn't for a cause. There must be a cause, if we could only find it.
Look for the cause, says I, in a case that's a bit mixed. But there ain't no cause in this,
as I can see."

"Ain't there?" a man leaning against the end post of the verandah exclaimed. "Ain't there no
cause? That's just your blooming error."

"Well, I'm no bush lawyer," Marmot replied, with a glance round the gathering. "It's more nor
I can reason out."

"Look here," exclaimed the man, a selector who lived a couple of miles out from the township
in solitary grandeur, and had an opinion, which might be right or wrong but was always strong,
on every conceivable subject under the sun, especially the opposite sex, whom he cordially
detested; "I'll tell you what's up. You believe me, a woman's to blame in this."

"Good iron, Slaughter," some one replied. "They're always the trouble."

"Yes, they are," Slaughter went on. "Anywhere they're the trouble, but in the bush----well,
they're real daisies in the bush; that's what they are, real daisies."

"But you don't mean----hullo, here's Cullen coming. He'll know what's in the wind," Marmot
exclaimed, as he caught sight of the blacksmith coming along the road.

As Cullen reached them a cloud of dust appeared on the road to the west, and he had stepped
on to the verandah and exchanged greetings, and had been asked to explain the problem which
was occupying their minds, before the cause of the dust-cloud went by at a hand-gallop in the
form of two saddle-horses, one ridden by a long-legged, wiry, sandy-haired youth, and the other
by a girl. She turned in her saddle as she rode past, and waved her hand to those on the verandah,
and even on Slaughter's face there came the suspicion of a smile.

"That's it," Cullen said, as he jerked his head in the direction of the two riders.

"Wha--at?" every one but Slaughter exclaimed; and he, with the smile growing grim on his face,
remarked--

"I told yer."

"It's so," Cullen went on. "Sam Nuggan was in to-day with a chipped cog off his reaper, and
he says, 'Cullen,' he says, 'I've got it.' 'No!' says I. 'Yes!' says he. 'It's all along of
that yaller head and young Dickson of Barellan.'"

The smith paused to push the glowing tobacco farther into the bowl of his pipe; and his audience,
listening intently, almost started at the resounding smack Slaughter gave his thigh as he exclaimed--

"I told yer! Bli'me! I told yer."

"Go on, Bill," Marmot said impatiently. "Never mind the pipe. Let's have the yarn."

"You've got it," Cullen answered, as he squatted down with his back against one of the verandah
posts, and puffed with almost aggressive deliberation at his strong, coarse tobacco.

"Go on, go on," Marmot repeated. "That ain't no cause, the yaller head and that cornstalk from
the station. Tony ain't the lad to be put off with that. Don't you believe it. There's more
about the yarn. Give us what Nuggan said."

The remainder of the expectant townsmen repeated the request loudly, volubly, and picturesquely.

"Well, it's like this," Cullen at last went on. "Nuggan told me as man to man, and now I tell
you as man to man, too, and that's square."

"Oh, that's square," Marmot chimed in; and the others repeated the formula.

"Well, you see, there's something that shouldn't be but is somehow about Tony which no one
quite knows what it is though they knows it shouldn't be, and that's what Nuggan said," Cullen
observed fluently but obscurely.

"But what's that?" Marmot began as Cullen paused.

He held up his hand, with his pipe between the finger and thumb, impressively, and Marmot stopped.

"You mean to say you ain't noticed it?" he asked, pointing his pipe-stem at Marmot. "Nor you?
Nor you? Nor you?" he continued slowly, as he swept his arm round and covered each man in turn.

Slaughter was the only man who answered. He said--

"Yes; her yaller head's made all of you fools. I told 'em it was a woman."

"It ain't that," Cullen went on seriously. "It's the likeness, the likeness that ain't there.
You understand?"

No one pleaded ignorance, and the smith pulled at his pipe to make sure it had not gone out
before resuming.

"Taylor--the old chap, I mean--has sort of ginger hair. His misses--well, she runs mousey.
The young 'uns is mostly ginger, and them that ain't is mousey. Tony--you know same as I do,
Tony's as black in the hair as a black-fellow, and blacker."

"That's so," Smart observed from the corner post where he was leaning.

"Now, I'll allow there's not much of old Taylor about the look of Tony. There's a bit of the
misses--about the eyes somehow, that makes him like her."

"That's so," Smart repeated; and every one else was silent, being interested, for Cullen generally
had information, albeit he did sometimes tie it up in words that neither his hearers nor himself
could understand.

"Then there's the cause," he exclaimed impressively. "There's the fust cause."

"Where?" Marmot inquired wonderingly. A cause was too great an attraction for him to permit
his missing one voluntarily.

"Why, there," Cullen responded. "Tony's not a bit like Taylor; he is a bit like the misses,
and he's different to all the rest."

"That's it. The woman," Slaughter snarled. "They're always the trouble in this world. I'd yard
'em up like----"

"Dry up," Marmot exclaimed sharply. He was too involved over the cause to want to hear Slaughter's
well-worn theories on the management of the other sex. "Where's the cause?" he asked.

"Well, put it plainer. Tony's like his mother, but how d'ye know he ain't more like his----"

"Smoke!" Marmot cried. "I get it. And yaller head found it out?"

"I don't go after for to say that," Cullen said ponderously. "And Sam Nuggan, he don't go after
for to say that. But he heard him and her one night as they were riding in, him bringing her
back from some moonlight ride they was always getting up--he heard her say to him, 'But who
do you take after, Tony?' And next day, so Sam Nuggan says, Taylor and his misses was talkin'
a lot and Tony was watchin' a lot, and then he ups and comes into the township, and the next
he hears he'd gone off with them gully-rakers."

"But it do seem to me----" Smart began.

"That's as clear as I can put it," Cullen interrupted quickly. "There it is, all in front of
you. Tony said he'd come back and report what the field was in a week or so, and when he comes
back, watch him and yaller head. The yaller head's the cause of it, you take my tip."

CHAPTER III.

THE BELLE OF BIRRALONG.

The two riders who had passed Marmot's store amid a cloud of dust, drew rein at the school-house
gate, the girl turning her horse off the road and alongside the gate so that she could lean
down and pull back the catch. As the gate swung open, she looked over her shoulder to where
her long, thin-limbed companion sat still in the saddle.

"Thank you," she said. "You have come a long distance out of your way, but it is your own fault."

"That's nothing," he replied. "Only--I say--mayn't I come in?"

She walked her horse through the gateway as he spoke, and, wheeling it, swung to the gate before
she looked up and answered him.

"You said as far as the gate--and you are as far as the gate," she said, with a mischievous
smile on her face.

"Yes; but----here, hold on," he exclaimed as, with a wave of her hand, just as she had waved
it to the group on Marmot's verandah, the girl started her horse up the narrow pathway that
led past the school-house into the paddock behind the cottage where she and her father, the
schoolmaster, lived.

The youth looked after her, with something of a glitter in his watery blue eyes. As her horse
entered the narrow space between the school-house wall and the yard fence, the girl looked
back again and laughed, and the youth dug his spurs unnecessarily hard into his horse's sides
as he resumed his ride down the road. He felt that he ought to have followed her through the
gate--and he dared not.

The girl meanwhile rode past the cottage, which stood back from the school-house, and into
the paddock beyond, giving a soft coo-ee as she passed. The horse found its own way to the
shed where the bridle and saddle were kept, and the girl lightly slipped from its back and
took off both. Having put them inside the shed, she roughly groomed the horse--which stood
so still, it seemed to be proud of the attention--before returning to the cottage, the horse
following her as far as it could, with its nose rubbing against her shoulder.

Inside the cottage a pale, delicate-looking man sat in a chair in front of a wood fire, on
which a kettle was boiling and steaming. He put down the book he was reading as she came in.

"I wasn't long, Dad, was I?" she asked, as she came across the room to his side and bent down
with her hand on his.

"No, child," he answered softly. "What news had the Murrays?"

"Oh, it was all the same old tune," she answered, as she stood up and took off the mushroom
straw hat she was wearing, revealing as she did so the wealth of golden hair, twined round
the top of her head in a heavy coiled plait, to which she owed the name of "yaller head" among
the frequenters of Marmot's verandah. "It was all Tony Taylor, Tony Taylor, Tony Taylor. Heavens!
why can't the man go gold-digging if he wants to? The way people talk----"

"Who came with you down the road?" her father interrupted to ask.

"Oh, that fool of a Dickson," she replied, with a short laugh. "He was hanging around the place,
so I told Nellie Murray to go out and see what he wanted; and she, big fool that she is, brought
him in, and then nothing would do him but he must ride home with me."

"Well, he didn't talk Tony Taylor all the time," her father said, laughing.

"That's just what he did," she retorted. "It was Tony Taylor all the way, until I told him
to shut up. They make me tired. Now, what are you laughing at?" she broke off to ask, as she
looked up and caught her father's glance.

"Oh, nothing," he answered. "I was only wondering what Dickson had to say about him."

"About Tony? Well, he said--you remember what I told you he said the other night about his
mother? Now he says that she would like to see some of us, or have some of us go over to the
station some day. How can the poor thing see us when she is as blind as a flying fox?"

"But that's not what Dickson said about Tony. I asked----"

"Oh, chut, chut, chut!" the girl exclaimed, as she waved her hands quickly to and fro in front
of his face. "Do please let the dear man rest while I get tea ready. Don't I tell you it makes
me tired? Willy Dickson was bad enough all the way home, without having more of it here. People
would think I care what happens to Tony Taylor;" and she stood looking down at her father with
wide-opened blue eyes that were as innocent of deception as a babe's.

"I wish you did," her father said quickly. "He's one of the----"

"Now, you're not going to begin again?" she asked; and, without waiting for an answer, she
turned away and began preparing the table for the evening meal.

Her father sat watching her as she moved about, not speaking again, for in turning away and
busying herself with something, she had shown as much temper as ever she showed over anything,
and her father understood the symptom. It was one of her peculiarities that she only evinced
the fact that she had a temper when she was reminded that certain of the young men in the district
had lost their hearts to her, and had left the neighbourhood because of their inability to
repair that loss. Not that she objected to the first part of the indictment; it was rather
pleasant, from her point of view, to have the command of the entire youth of the district.
What she objected to was the going away of individual units from Birralong, just because she
did not see fit to deny herself the pleasure of the society of all the other youths in exchange
for that of just one. It always happened in that manner; always the departure of some youth
for the western stations, the northern gold-fields, the coastal towns, or the droving routes,
had been preceded by one, sometimes two, and sometimes more, interviews with her, in which,
as she usually told them, they made her "feel tired." Always except once. Tony Taylor had gone
off and had hardly wished her good-bye, and Tony and she had been as brother and sister, only
more so, since the day when they first met and began to climb through all the standards of
the State-school education, beginning at the very lowest of the grades, together.

Tony used to ride in to the school in those days, for Birralong was in its infancy and the
school was only just opened. Taylor's Flat, the selection where he lived, was a dozen miles
away, and Tony used to come and have dinner with her and her mother and father. He used to
ride in bare-back on a big old splodgy dray-horse named Tom, which had been worked in the dray
and at the plough until there was only jog-trot servility left in him. But Tony--clad in a
pair of knickerbockers cut down from a pair of Taylor's moleskins, a flannel shirt with the
sleeves rolled up and the neck innocent of a button, with neither shoes nor stockings on his
brown little feet and legs, and with an old soft felt hat, discarded by the elder Taylor, and
consequently as many sizes too big for Tony as his knickerbockers were--was a proud boy as
he rode through the township every day to and from school, his little legs barely reaching
across the broad back of the old dray-horse. He was the only one who rode in, and that, together
with his eight years and quick wits, made him a hero in the mind of the Irish-named, Saxon-haired
daughter of the schoolmaster.

There had been a community of interests between them from those days of irresponsible childhood;
and when, in later days, Ailleen lost her mother, and her father developed the state of health
which made him more and more delicate every year, the community of interests grew, for whatever
her troubles were, Tony was always ready to share them; and he was the only boy who made no
protests about her being friends with all the others, and treating them all on a level when
circumstances were kind enough to put some entertainment in her way. He had always seemed to
understand her, for he had never talked as some of the others had, particularly those who had
suddenly made up their minds to leave Birralong, and for that reason alone she was satisfied
with him.

But there came a time when this sense of satisfaction was disturbed. Very slight indeed was
the first indication of the disturbance--so slight, in fact, that it had not been apparent
to Ailleen herself until it had gained considerable strength; enough, at all events, to make
itself distinctly and unpleasantly manifest.

She had, one day, been amused at the remarks Dickson had passed on Tony's appearance. There
was a touch of malice in the remarks, for Tony, in the old school-days they all had shared
together, had thrashed Dickson with a bridle, and she had laughed at the one and smiled upon
the other. Dickson had never forgotten the chastisement he received from a boy younger and
a head shorter than himself; and as the years passed he still nursed his enmity, giving vent
to it in vindictive and malicious remarks about the absent Tony, for he remembered the boyish
thrashing too well to speak his opinions in his rival's presence. So it was that when Ailleen
heard Dickson denouncing Tony's appearance, she had been amused, until a chance remark struck
her and set her thinking; and as she thought, the conviction grew upon her that the very subject
of the remark which had struck her so forcibly had been in her mind, unconsciously, for years.
Now that she had had it brought face to face with her, as it were, its significance was so
pronounced she wondered how it had escaped her all the years she had known Tony and the rest
of the Taylor family.

The fact was that Tony was absolutely different, in manner, face, and figure, from every member
of the family of Taylor's Flat.

The next time she met him she had teased him about it, asking who it was he took after, and
such-like questions; and Tony had replied with an abruptness which was so unusual in him that
she had at first felt amused, until it began to rankle. Then she resented it, and when they
met again, she was equally abrupt to him as he had been to her, and had, moreover, given a
great deal of attention to what Dickson, who was present, said and did, while ignoring, as
far as she could, the very existence of Tony. Then the three lucky diggers had come to the
Carrier's Rest, and every one was talking of gold-mining to such an extent that she saddled
her horse and rode out to see and chat with her bosom friend, Nellie Murray.

When she returned, her father told her that Tony had been in during the day to bid him good-bye,
as he was off in the morning for the new field. And from that moment it seemed to her that
every one she met could talk or think of nothing but Tony going gold-mining. It was getting
monotonous, and, to relieve her feelings, she put down the plate she had in her hands with
unnecessary force.

