Yet, in spite of untoward circumstances, ceaseless drudgery, and insufficient diet, the family
of Mount Oliphant was not utterly lost to happiness. With such a shrewd mother and such a father
as William Burness--a man of whom Scotland may be justly proud--no home could be altogether
unhappy. In Burns's picture of the family circle in The Cotter's Saturday Night there is nothing
of bitterness or gloom or melancholy. Burns's description of how the song came to be made is
worthy of quotation, because it gives us a very clear and well-defined likeness of himself
at the time, a lad in years, but already counting himself among men. 'You know our country
custom of coupling a man and a woman together in the labours of harvest. In my fifteenth autumn
my partner was a bewitching creature who just counted an autumn less. Among her other love-inspiring
qualifications she sang sweetly; and 'twas her favourite Scotch reel that I attempted to give
an embodied vehicle to in rhyme. Writing of this song afterwards, Burns, who was always a keen
critic, admits that it is 'very puerile and silly.' Still, we think there is something of beauty,
and much of promise, in this early effusion. It has at least one of the merits, and, in a sense,
the peculiar characteristic of all Burns's songs. It is sincere and natural; and that is the
beginning of all good writing.

'Thus with me,' he says, 'began love and poetry, which at times have been my only and ... my
highest enjoyment.' This was the first-fruit of his poetic genius, and we doubt not that in
the composition, and after the composition, life at Mount Oliphant was neither so cheerless
nor so hard as it had been. A new life was opened up to him with a thousand nameless hopes
and aspirations, though probably as yet he kept all these things to himself, and pondered them
in his heart.

CHAPTER II

LOCHLEA AND MOSSGIEL

The farm at Mount Oliphant proved a ruinous failure, and after weathering their last two years
on it under the tyranny of the scoundrel factor, it was with feelings of relief, we may be
sure, that the family removed to Lochlea, in the parish of Tarbolton. This was a farm of 130
acres of land rising from the right bank of the river Ayr. The farm appeared to them more promising
than the one they had left. The prospect from its uplands was extensive and beautiful. It commanded
a view of the Carrick Hills, and the Firth of Clyde beyond; but where there are extensive views
to be had the land is necessarily exposed. The farm itself was bleak and bare, and twenty shillings
an acre was a high rent for fields so situated.

The younger members of the family, however, were now old enough to be of some assistance in
the house or in the fields, and for a few years life was brighter than it had been before;
not that labour was lighter to them here, but simply because they had escaped the meshes and
machinations of a petty tyrant, and worked more cheerfully, looking to the future with confidence.
Father, mother, and children all worked as hard as they were able, and none more ungrudgingly
than the poet.

We know little about those first few years of life at Lochlea, which should be matter for special
thanksgiving. Better we should know nothing at all than that we should learn of misfortunes
coming upon them, and see the family again in tears and forced to thole a factor's snash; better
silence than the later unsavoury episodes, which have not yet been allowed decent burial. Probably
life went evenly and beautifully in those days. The brothers accompanied their father to the
fields; Agnes milked the cows, reciting the while to her younger sisters, Annabella and Isabella,
snatches of song or psalm; and in the evening the whole family would again gather round the
ingle to raise their voices in Dundee or Martyrs or Elgin, and then to hear the priest-like
father read the sacred page.

The little that we do know is worth recording. No artist has yet painted this picture of Burns,
as his brother saw him, at his best. Writers have glanced at the scene and passed it by. It
needed to be looked at with naked, appreciative eyes; they had come with microscopes to the
study of Burns. Far more interesting material awaited them farther on: The Poet's Welcome,
for example! They could amplify that. Here, too, is the first hint of Burns's brilliant powers
as a talker; a glimpse on this lonely peat moss of the man who, not many years afterwards,
was to dazzle literary Edinburgh with the sparkle and force of his graphic speech.

Probably it was about this time that Burns went for a summer to a school at Kirkoswald. In
his autobiography he says it was his seventeenth year, and, if so, it must have been before
the family had left Mount Oliphant. Gilbert's recollection was that the poet was then in his
nineteenth year, which would bring the incident into the Lochlea period. In the new edition
of Chambers's Burns, William Wallace accepts Robert's statement as correct; yet we hardly think
the poet would have spent a summer at school at a time when the family was under the heel of
that merciless factor. Besides, although he speaks of his seventeenth year, he has just made
mention of the fact that he was in the secret of half the amours of the parish; and it was
in the parish of Tarbolton that we hear of him acting 'as the second of night-hunting swains.'
Probably also it would be after the family had found comparative peace and quiet in their new
home that it would occur to Burns to resume his studies in a methodical way. The point is a
small one. Here, though I learnt to look unconcernedly on a large tavern bill and mix without
fear in a drunken squabble, yet I went on with a high hand in my geometry.'

The glimpses we have of Burns during his stay here are all characteristic of the man. We see
a young man looking out on a world that is new to him; moving in a society to which he had
hitherto been a stranger. His eyes are opened not only to the knowledge of mankind, but to
a better knowledge of himself. Thirsting for information and power, we find him walking with
Willie Niven, his companion from Maybole, away from the village to where they might have peace
and quiet, and converse on subjects calculated to improve their minds. They sharpen their wits
in debate, taking sides on speculative questions, and arguing the matter to their own satisfaction.
No doubt in these conversations and debates he was developing that gift of clear reasoning
and lucid expression which afterwards so confounded the literary and legal luminaries of Edinburgh.
They had made a study of logic, but here was a man from the plough who held his own with them,
discussing questions which in their opinion demanded a special training. For an uncouth country
ploughman gifted with song they were prepared, but they did not expect one who could meet them
in conversation with the fence and foil of a skilled logician. We may see also his burning
desire for distinction in that scene in school when he led the self-confident schoolmaster
into debate and left him humiliated in the eyes of the pupils. Even in his contests with John
Niven there was the same eagerness to excel. When he could not beat him in wrestling or putting
the stone, he was fain to content himself with a display of his superiority in mental calisthenics.
The very fact that a charming fillette overset his trigonometry, and set him off at a tangent,
is a characteristic ending to this summer of study. Peggy Thomson in her kail-yard was too
much for the fiery imagination of a poet: 'it was in vain to think of doing more good at school.'

Too much stress is not to be laid on Burns's own mention of 'scenes of swaggering riot and
dissipation' at Kirkoswald. Such things were new to him, and made a lasting impression on his
mind. We know that he returned home very considerably improved. His reading was enlarged with
the very important addition of Thomson's and Shenstone's works. He had seen human nature in
a new phasis, and now he engaged in literary correspondence with several of his schoolfellows.

It was not long after his return from Kirkoswald that the Bachelor's Club was founded, and
here could Burns again exercise his debating powers and find play for his expanding intellect.
The members met to forget their cares in mirth and diversion, 'without transgressing the bounds
of innocent decorum'; and the chief diversion appears to have been debate.

If we are to believe Gilbert, the seven years of their stay in Tarbolton parish were not marked
by much literary improvement in Robert. That may well have been Gilbert's opinion at the time;
for the poet was working hard on the farm, and often spending an evening at Tarbolton or at
one or other of the neighbouring farms. But he managed all the same to get through a considerable
amount of reading; and though, perhaps, he did not devote himself so sedulously to books as
he had been accustomed to do in the seclusion of Mount Oliphant, he was storing his mind in
other ways. 'I had a curiosity, zeal, and intrepid dexterity in these matters which recommended
me as a proper second in duels of that kind.' His song, My Nannie, O, which belongs to this
period, is not only true as a lyric of sweet and simple love, but is also true to the particular
style of love-making then in vogue.

    'The westlin wind blaws loud an' shill;
      The night's baith mirk and rainy, O:
    But I'll get my plaid, an' out I'll steal,
      An' owre the hills to Nannie, O.'

According to Gilbert, the poet himself was constantly the victim of some fair enslaver, although,
being jealous of those richer than himself, he was not aspiring in his loves. But while there
was hardly a comely maiden in Tarbolton to whom he did not address a song, we are not to imagine
that he was frittering his heart away amongst them all. A poet may sing lyrics of love to many
while his heart is true to one. The one at this time to Robert Burns was Ellison Begbie, to
whom some of his songs are addressed--notably Mary Morrison, one of the purest and most beautiful
love lyrics ever poet penned. Nothing is more striking than the immense distance between this
composition and any he had previously written. In this song he for the first time stepped to
the front rank as a song-writer, and gave proof to himself, if to nobody else at the time,
of the genius that was in him. A few letters to Ellison Begbie are also preserved, pure and
honourable in sentiment, but somewhat artificial and formal in expression. It was because of
his love for her, and his desire to be settled in life, that he took to the unfortunate flax-dressing
business in Irvine. That is something of an unlovely and mysterious episode in Burns's life.
Suffice it to say in his own words: 'This turned out a sadly unlucky affair. My partner was
a scoundrel of the first water, and, to finish the whole business, while we were giving a welcome
carousal to the New Year, our shop, by the drunken carelessness of my partner's wife, took
fire and burned to ashes, and I was left, like a true poet, not worth a sixpence.'

His stay at Irvine was neither pleasant for him at the time nor happy in its results. He met
there 'acquaintances of a freer manner of thinking and living than he had been used to'; and
it needs something more than the family misfortunes and the deathbed of his father to account
for that terrible fit of hypochondria when he returned to Lochlea. 'For three months I was
in a diseased state of body and mind, scarcely to be envied by the hopeless wretches who have
just got their sentence, Depart from me, ye cursed.'

Up to this time, the twenty-fifth year of his age, Burns had not written much. Besides Mary
Morrison might be mentioned The Death and Dying Words of Poor Mailie, and another bewitching
song, The Rigs o' Barley, which is surely an expression of the innocent abandon, the delicious
rapture of pure and trustful love. But what he had written was work of promise, while at least
one or two of his songs had the artistic finish as well as the spontaneity of genuine poetry.
In all that he had done, 'puerile and silly,' to quote his own criticism of Handsome Nell,
or at times halting and crude, there was the ring of sincerity. He was not merely an echo,
as too many polished poetasters in their first attempts have been. Such jinglers are usually
as happy in their juvenile effusions as in their later efforts. But Burns from the first tried
to express what was in him, what he himself felt, and in so far had set his feet on the road
to perfection. Being natural, he was bound to improve by practice, and if there was genius
in him to become in time a great poet. That he was already conscious of his powers we know,
and the longing for fame, 'that last infirmity of noble mind,' was strong in him and continually
growing stronger.

    'Then out into the world my course I did determine,
    Though to be rich was not my wish, yet to be great was charming;
    My talents they were not the worst, nor yet my education;
    Resolved was I at least to try to mend my situation.'

Before this he had thought of more ambitious things than songs, and had sketched the outlines
of a tragedy; but it was only after meeting with Fergusson's Scotch Poems that he 'struck his
wildly resounding lyre with rustic vigour.' In his commonplace book, begun in 1783, we have
ever-recurring hints of his devoting himself to poetry. 'For my own part I never had the least
thought or inclination of turning poet till I got once heartily in love, and then Rhyme and
Song were in a measure the spontaneous language of my heart.'

The story of Wallace from the poem by Blind Harry had years before fired his imagination, and
his heart had glowed with a wish to make a song on that hero in some measure equal to his merits.

For a time, however, all dreams of greatness are to be set aside as vain. The family had again
fallen on evil days, and when the father died, his all went 'among the hell-hounds that grovel
in the kennel of justice.' This was no time for poetry, and Robert was too much of a man to
think merely of his own aims and ambitions in such a crisis. It was only by ranking as creditors
to their father's estate for arrears of wages that the children of William Burness made a shift
to scrape together a little money, with which Robert and Gilbert were able to stock the neighbouring
farm of Mossgiel. Thither the family removed in March 1784; and it is on this farm that the
life of the poet becomes most deeply interesting. The remains of the father were buried in
Alloway Kirkyard; and on a small tombstone over the grave the poet bears record to the blameless
life of the loving husband, the tender father, and the friend of man. He had lived long enough
to hear some of his son's poems, and to express admiration for their beauty; but he had also
noted the passionate nature of his first-born. There was one of his family, he said on his
deathbed, for whose future he feared; and Robert knew who that one was. He turned to the window,
the tears streaming down his cheeks.

