'D'ye remember the inn at Cologne, Tommy?' Sir George continued, mischievously reminiscent.
'And Lord Tony arriving with his charmer? And you giving up your room to her? And the trick
we played you at Calais, where we passed the little French dancer on you for Madame la Marquise
de Personne?'

Mr. Thomasson winced, and a tinge of colour rose in his fat pale face. 'Boys, boys!' he said,
with an airy gesture. 'You had an uncommon fancy even then, Sir George, though you were but
a year from school! Ah, those were charming days! Great days!'

'And nights!' said Sir George, lying back in his chair and looking at the other with eyes half
shut, and insolence half veiled. 'Do you remember the faro bank at Florence, Tommy, and the
three hundred livres you lost to that old harridan, Lady Harrington? Pearls cast before swine
you styled them, I remember.'

'Lord, Sir George!' Mr. Thomasson cried, vastly horrified. 'How can you say such a thing? Your
excellent memory plays you false.'

'It does,' Soane answered, smiling sardonically. 'I remember. It was seed sown for the harvest,
you called it--in your liquor. And that touches me. Do you mind the night Fitzhugh made you
so prodigiously drunk at Bonn, Tommy? And we put you in the kneading-trough, and the servants
found you and shifted you to the horse-trough? Gad! you would have died of laughter if you
could have seen yourself when we rescued you, lank and dripping, with your wig like a sponge!'

'It must have been--uncommonly diverting!' the Reverend Frederick stammered; and he smiled
widely, but with a lack of heart. This time there could be no doubt of the pinkness that overspread
his face.

'Diverting? I tell you it would have made old Dartmouth laugh!' Sir George said, bluntly.

'Ha, ha! Perhaps it would. Perhaps it would. Not that I have the honour of his lordship's acquaintance.'

'No? Well, he would not suit you, Tommy. I would not seek it.'

The Reverend Frederick looked doubtful, as weighing the possibility of anything that bore the
name of lord being alien from him. From this reflection, however, he was roused by a new sally
on Soane's part. 'But, crib me! you are very fine to-night, Mr. Thomasson,' he said, staring
about him afresh. 'Ten o'clock, and you are lighted as for a drum! What is afoot?'

The tutor smirked and rubbed his hands. 'Well, I--I was expecting a visitor, Sir George.'

'Ah, you dog! She is not here, but you are expecting her.'

Mr. Thomasson grinned; the jest flattered him. Nevertheless he hastened to exonerate himself.
'It is not Venus I am expecting, but Mars,' he said with a simper. 'The Honourable Mr. Dunborough,
son to my Lord Dunborough, and the same whose meritorious services at the Havanna you, my dear
friend, doubtless remember. He is now cultivating in peace the gifts which in war--'

'Sufficed to keep him out of danger!' Sir George said bluntly. 'So he is your last sprig, is
he? He should be well seasoned.'

'He is four-and-twenty,' Mr. Thomasson answered, pluming himself and speaking in his softest
tones. 'And the most charming, I assure you, the most debonair of men. But do I hear a noise?'

'Yes,' said Sir George, listening. 'I hear something.'

Mr. Thomasson rose. 'What--what is it, I wonder?' he said, a trifle nervously. A dull sound,
as of a hive of bees stirred to anger, was becoming audible.

'Devil if I know!' Sir George answered. 'Open the window.'

But the Reverend Frederick, after approaching the window with the intention of doing so, seemed
disinclined to go nearer, and hovered about it. 'Really,' he said, no longer hiding his discomposure.
'I fear that it is something--something in the nature of a riot. I fear that that which I anticipated
has happened. If my honourable friend had only taken my advice and remained here!' And he wrung
his hands without disguise.

