He had an adventure, once, which sticks fast in my memory as the most pleasantly grotesque
that ever touched my sympathies.  He had been without a penny for two months.  He had shirked
about obscure streets, among friendly dim lights, till the thing had become second nature to
him.  But at last he was driven abroad in daylight.  The cause was sufficient; he had not tasted
food for forty-eight hours, and he could not endure the misery of his hunger in idle hiding.
He came along a back street, glowering at the loaves in bake-shop windows, and feeling that
he could trade his life away for a morsel to eat.  The sight of the bread doubled his hunger;
but it was good to look at it, any how, and imagine what one might do if one only had it.

Presently, in the middle of the street he saw a shining spot--looked again--did not, and could
not, believe his eyes--turned away, to try them, then looked again.  It was a verity--no vain,
hunger-inspired delusion--it was a silver dime!

He snatched it--gloated over it; doubted it--bit it--found it genuine --choked his heart down,
and smothered a halleluiah.  Then he looked around--saw that nobody was looking at him--threw
the dime down where it was before--walked away a few steps, and approached again, pretending
he did not know it was there, so that he could re-enjoy the luxury of finding it.  He walked
around it, viewing it from different points; then sauntered about with his hands in his pockets,
looking up at the signs and now and then glancing at it and feeling the old thrill again. Finally
he took it up, and went away, fondling it in his pocket.  He idled through unfrequented streets,
stopping in doorways and corners to take it out and look at it.  By and by he went home to
his lodgings--an empty queens-ware hogshead,--and employed himself till night trying to make
up his mind what to buy with it.  But it was hard to do.  To get the most for it was the idea.
He knew that at the Miner's Restaurant he could get a plate of beans and a piece of bread for
ten cents; or a fish-ball and some few trifles, but they gave "no bread with one fish-ball"
there.  At French Pete's he could get a veal cutlet, plain, and some radishes and bread, for
ten cents; or a cup of coffee--a pint at least--and a slice of bread; but the slice was not
thick enough by the eighth of an inch, and sometimes they were still more criminal than that
in the cutting of it.  At seven o'clock his hunger was wolfish; and still his mind was not
made up.  He turned out and went up Merchant street, still ciphering; and chewing a bit of
stick, as is the way of starving men.

He passed before the lights of Martin's restaurant, the most aristocratic in the city, and
stopped.  It was a place where he had often dined, in better days, and Martin knew him well.
Standing aside, just out of the range of the light, he worshiped the quails and steaks in the
show window, and imagined that may be the fairy times were not gone yet and some prince in
disguise would come along presently and tell him to go in there and take whatever he wanted.
He chewed his stick with a hungry interest as he warmed to his subject.  Just at this juncture
he was conscious of some one at his side, sure enough; and then a finger touched his arm. 
He looked up, over his shoulder, and saw an apparition--a very allegory of Hunger!  It was
a man six feet high, gaunt, unshaven, hung with rags; with a haggard face and sunken cheeks,
and eyes that pleaded piteously.  This phantom said:

"Come with me--please."

He locked his arm in Blucher's and walked up the street to where the passengers were few and
the light not strong, and then facing about, put out his hands in a beseeching way, and said:

