When I thus stated what I intended to do, the opinion of the Attorney-General had not yet been
received.  When it did reach me it was merely in the form of a circular signed by Adjutant-General
Townsend, and had no force of law.  It was not even sent as an order, nor was it accompanied
by any instructions, or by anything except the statement that it was transmitted to the 11
respective military commanders for their information, in order that there might be uniformity
in the execution  of the Reconstruction acts.  To adopt Mr. Stanbery's interpretation of the
law and reopen registration accordingly, would defeat the purpose of Congress, as well as add
to my perplexities.  Such a course would also require that the officers appointed by me for
the performance of specified duties, under laws which I was empowered to interpret and enforce,
should receive their guidance and instructions from an unauthorized source, so on communicating
with General Grant as to how I should act, he directed me to enforce my own construction of
the military bill until ordered to do otherwise.

Therefore the registration continued as I had originally directed, and nothing having been
definitely settled at Washington in relation to my extending the time, on the 10th of July
I ordered all the registration boards to select, immediately, suitable persons to act as commissioners
of election, and at the same time specified the number of each set of commissioners, designated
the polling-places, gave notice that two days would be allowed for voting, and followed this
with an order discontinuing registration the 31st of July, and then another appointing the
27th and 28th of September as the time for the election of delegates to the State convention.

In accomplishing the registration there had been little opposition from the mass of the people,
but the press of New Orleans, and the office-holders and office-seekers in the State generally,
antagonized the work bitterly and violently, particularly after the promulgation of the opinion
of the Attorney-General.  These agitators condemned everybody and everything connected with
the Congressional plan of reconstruction; and the pernicious influence thus exerted was manifested
in various ways, but most notably in the selection of persons to compose the jury lists in
the country parishes it also tempted certain municipal officers in New Orleans to perform illegal
acts that would seriously have affected the credit of the city had matters not been promptly
corrected by the summary removal from office of the comptroller and the treasurer, who had
already issued a quarter of a million dollars in illegal certificates.  On learning of this
unwarranted and unlawful proceeding, Mayor Heath demanded an investigation by the Common Council,
but this body, taking its cue from the evident intention of the President to render abortive
the Reconstruction acts, refused the mayor's demand.  Then he tried to have the treasurer and
comptroller restrained by injunction, but the city attorney, under the same inspiration as
the council, declined to sue out a writ, and the attorney being supported in this course by
nearly all the other officials, the mayor was left helpless in his endeavors to preserve the
city's credit.  Under such circumstances he took the only step left him--recourse to the military
commander; and after looking into the matter carefully I decided, in the early part of August,
to give the mayor officials who would not refuse to make an investigation of the illegal issue
of certificates, and to this end I removed the treasurer, surveyor, comptroller, city attorney,
and twenty-two of the aldermen; these officials, and all of their assistants, having reduced
the financial credit of New Orleans to a disordered condition, and also having made efforts--and
being then engaged in such--to hamper the execution of the Reconstruction laws.

This action settled matters in the city, but subsequently I had to remove some officials in
the parishes--among them a justice of the peace and a sheriff in the parish of Rapides; the
justice for refusing to permit negro witnesses to testify in a certain murder case, and for
allowing the murderer, who had foully killed a colored man, to walk out of his court on bail
in the insignificant sum of five hundred dollars; and the sheriff, for conniving at the escape
from jail of another alleged murderer.  Finding, however, even after these removals, that in
the country districts murderers and other criminals went unpunished, provided the offenses
were against negroes merely (since the jurors were selected exclusively from the whites, and
often embraced those excluded from the exercise of the election franchise) I, having full authority
under the Reconstruction laws, directed such a revision of the jury lists as would reject from
them every man not eligible for registration as a voter.  This order was issued August 24,
and on its promulgation the President relieved me from duty and assigned General Hancock as
my successor.

"HEADQUARTERS FIFTH MILITARY DISTRICT, "NEW ORLEANS, LA., August 24, 1867.

"SPECIAL ORDERS, No.  125.

"The registration of voters of the State of Louisiana, according to the law of Congress, being
complete, it is hereby ordered that no person who is not registered in accordance with said
law shall be considered as, a duly qualified voter of the State of Louisiana.  All persons
duly registered as above, and no others, are consequently eligible, under the laws of the State
of Louisiana, to serve as jurors in any of the courts of the State.

"The necessary revision of the jury lists will immediately be made by the proper officers.

"All the laws of the State respecting exemptions, etc., from jury duty will remain in force.

"By command of Major-General P. H. SHERIDAN.

"GEO. L. HARTNUFF, Asst. Adj't-General."

Pending the arrival of General Hancock, I turned over the command of the district September
1 to General Charles Griffin; but he dying of yellow fever, General J. A. Mower succeeded him,
and retained command till November 29, on which date General Hancock assumed control. Immediately
after Hancock took charge, he revoked my order of August 24 providing for a revision of the
jury lists; and, in short, President Johnson's policy now became supreme, till Hancock himself
was relieved in March, 1868.

My official connection with the reconstruction of Louisiana and Texas practically closed with
this order concerning the jury lists.  In my judgment this had become a necessity, for the
disaffected element, sustained as it was by the open sympathy of the President, had grown so
determined in its opposition to the execution of the Reconstruction acts that I resolved to
remove from place and power all obstacles; for the summer's experience had convinced me that
in no other way could the law be faithfully administered.

The President had long been dissatisfied with my course; indeed, he had harbored personal enmity
against me ever since he perceived that he could not bend me to an acceptance of the false
position in which he had tried to place me by garbling my report of the riot of 1866. When
Mr. Johnson decided to remove me, General Grant protested in these terms, but to no purpose:

"HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES, "WASHINGTON, D. C., August 17, 1867

"SIR: I am in receipt of your order of this date directing the assignment of General G. H.
Thomas to the command of the Fifth Military District, General Sheridan to the Department of
the Missouri, and General Hancock to the Department of the Cumberland; also your note of this
date (enclosing these instructions), saying: 'Before you issue instructions to carry into effect
the enclosed order, I would be pleased to hear any suggestions you may deem necessary respecting
the assignments to which the order refers.'

"I am pleased to avail myself of this invitation to urge--earnestly urge--urge in the name
of a patriotic people, who have sacrificed hundreds of thousands of loyal lives and thousands
of millions of treasure to preserve the integrity and union of this country--that this order
be not insisted on.  It is unmistakably the expressed wish of the country that General Sheridan
should not be removed from his present command.

"This is a republic where the will of the people is the law of the land.  I beg that their
voice may be heard.

"General Sheridan has performed his civil duties faithfully and intelligently.  His removal
will only be regarded as an effort to defeat the laws of Congress.  It will be interpreted
by the unreconstructed element in the South--those who did all they could to break up this
Government by arms, and now wish to be the only element consulted as to the method of restoring
order--as a triumph.  It will embolden them to renewed opposition to the will of the loyal
masses, believing that they have the Executive with them.

"The services of General Thomas in battling for the Union entitle him to some consideration.
He has repeatedly entered his protest against being assigned to either of the five military
districts, and especially to being assigned to relieve General Sheridan.

"There are military reasons, pecuniary reasons, and above all, patriotic reasons, why this
should not be insisted upon.

"I beg to refer to a letter marked 'private,' which I wrote to the President when first consulted
on the subject of the change in the War Department.  It bears upon the subject of this removal,
and I had hoped would have prevented it.

"I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,

"U. S. GRANT, "General U. S. A., Secretary of War ad interim.

"His Excellency A. JOHNSON, "President of the United States."

I was ordered to command the Department of the Missouri (General Hancock, as already noted,
finally becoming my successor in the Fifth Military District), and left New Orleans on the
5th of September.  I was not loath to go.  The kind of duty I had been performing in Louisiana
and Texas was very trying under the most favorable circumstances, but all the more so in my
case, since I had to contend against the obstructions which the President placed in the way
from persistent opposition to the acts of Congress as well as from antipathy to me--which obstructions
he interposed with all the boldness and aggressiveness of his peculiar nature.

On more than one occasion while I was exercising this command, impurity of motive was imputed
to me, but it has never been truthfully shown (nor can it ever be) that political or corrupt
influences of any kind controlled me in any instance.  I simply tried to carry out, without
fear or favor, the Reconstruction acts as they came to me.  They were intended to disfranchise
certain persons, and to enfranchise certain others, and, till decided otherwise, were the laws
of the land; and it was my duty to execute them faithfully, without regard, on the one hand,
for those upon whom it was thought they bore so heavily, nor, on the other, for this or that
political party, and certainly without deference to those persons sent to Louisiana to influence
my conduct of affairs.

