The bones of the cranium were unusually thick. The dura mater, which was thickened, and in
many places bore marks of former inflammation, adhered to the bone at the vertex. On its internal
surface, near the longitudinal sinus, there was a small ossified portion, half an inch long
and the eighth of an inch thick. The convolutions of the brain were narrow, and very strongly
marked. The pia mater bore marks of pretty extensive inflammation, and adhered to the dura
mater at the vertex. The cortical substance ran deep into the medullary part of the brain.
The ventricles contained about double the usual quantity of water; their parts were all remarkably
well defined. The vessels of the pia mater, over the corpora striata, were unusually injected
with blood. The velum interpositum was very firm; the plexus choroides uncommonly thick, but
pale; the opening from the right to the left ventricle large. The vessels of the brain were
generally not much filled with blood.

The blood appeared every where fluid, except in some portions of the lungs, and in the cavities
of the heart. It was very dark coloured, perhaps more than ordinarily thin, and oozed from
every part, which was cut.

The cellular membrane, in all dependent parts, effused, when cut, a serous fluid.

                               CASE II.

Mr. John Jackson, fifty-two years of age, had been affected for more than two years with palpitations
of the heart, and paroxysms of dyspnœa. These symptoms increased in October, 1808, and were
followed by strong cough, uneasiness in lying down, sudden startings in sleep, and an inclination
to bend the body forward and to the left side. His cough, during the last part of his life,
was attended with copious bloody expectoration. His countenance was florid; his pulse very
irregular, though not quite intermittent. The occasional variations in the state of the disease
were remarkable. Some periods were marked with uncommon mental irritability. Pain in the region
of the liver, œdema of the inferior extremities, paucity and turbidness of the urine, yellowness
of the skin, and great emaciation attended the latter stages of the disease. A degree of stupor
occurred. The termination on the 30th of January, 1809, was tolerably quiet. Two days before
death he sank into the recumbent posture, and his pulse became more regular[5].

    [Footnote 5: The symptoms of this patient were related by Dr.
    Rand, sen. to whose politeness and love of medical
    improvement I am indebted for the opportunity of examining
    this and the following case.]

                              DISSECTION,
                    TWENTY-FOUR HOURS AFTER DEATH.

On opening the thorax, its right cavity was found to contain a large quantity of water; the
left, a smaller quantity.

The lungs were of a firm, condensed texture, especially at the lower part, where their solidity
was nearly equal to that of a healthy liver. They contained black blood.

The heart was much enlarged, and proportionally thickened. Its tunic was in some places covered
with coagulated lymph, especially over the coronary arteries. Its cavities were filled with
black coagulum, which in the right auricle and ventricle had a slight appearance of polypus.
The semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery and aorta were unusually small, and their bases
cartilaginous. Those of the aorta had lost their form, and were slightly ossified. The remaining
valves were partially thickened. The arch of the aorta was very much dilated, its internal
coat covered with a bony crust, which extended through the remaining thoracic portion, gradually
diminishing. This portion was also considerably dilated.

The liver was indurated; its peritonæal coat exhibited a flaccid or wrinkled appearance, and
bore marks of slight inflammation. The gall bladder was filled with bile, and the pancreas
indurated.

                               CASE III.

Captain Job Jackson, forty-five years of age, a man of vigorous constitution, after an indisposition
of some years continuance, was seized with palpitations of the heart and dyspnœa, occurring
by variable paroxysms, especially on ascending an eminence, and attended by hardness, irregularity,
and intermission of the pulse. To these symptoms were superadded dizziness and severe head-ache,
a disposition to bend the body forward, sudden starting from sleep, with dread of suffocation,
violent cough with copious expectoration, which for fifteen days before death consisted of
black blood, distressing pain across the chest, especially on the left side, great œdema of
the lower extremities, and paucity of urine.

He died painfully in January, 1809, after violent struggles for breath. The day before death
the pulse became regular. He rested his head upon an attendant, and made no attempts to lie
down for some days previous[6].

    [Footnote 6: The symptoms of this case were related to me by
    Dr. Rand, sen.]

                              DISSECTION,
                      SIXTEEN HOURS AFTER DEATH.

The skin was of a yellow colour. The inferior extremities, quite to the groins, were œdematous.

The left cavity of the thorax was filled with water; the right contained only a small quantity.
The pleura costalis, on the left side opposite to the heart, was thickened and covered with
a very thick flocculent coat of coagulated lymph, and the pericardium opposite to it had the
same marks of inflammation. The lungs on that side were pushed up into a narrow space. They
were dense and dark coloured.

The pericardium contained little more than the usual quantity of water. The heart, which exhibited
marks of some inflammation on its surface, was astonishingly large, and firm in proportion.
Its cavities were principally filled with coagulum. The semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery
had their bases slightly ossified, and the remaining part thickened. There were only two valves
of the aorta, and these were disorganized by the deposition of ossific matter about their bases,
and a fleshlike thickening of the other part[7]. The parietes of the heart, especially of the
left ventricle, were greatly thickened, and somewhat ossified near the origin of the aorta.

    [Footnote 7: See plate first.]

The liver had the same appearance as in case second.

                               CASE IV.

Thomas Appleton, thirty-eight years of age, of a robust constitution, was affected with excessive
difficulty of breathing, occurring at intervals of different duration. It commenced three years
before his death, and gradually increased. He was subject to palpitations of the heart for
at least two years before his death, and was distressed with violent cough, attended with copious
expectoration, which finally became very bloody. The palpitation and dyspnœa were greatly augmented
by ascending stairs. His countenance was very florid.

Sometimes he was seized with violent head-ache and dizziness, which, as well as the other symptoms,
were greatly relieved by venesection. About two months before death œdema of the legs appeared,
which was soon followed by frequent and alarming syncope. His pulse was irregular, intermittent,
hard, and vibrating. When lying down he frequently awoke, and started up in great terror. His
usual posture was that of sitting, with his trunk and head bent forward, and inclining to the
left side. For some time before death a recumbent posture threatened immediate suffocation;
yet, three days previous to the occurrence of that event, he sank back upon the pillow. He
was, at intervals, so much better as to think himself free from disease. Slight delirium preceded
his death, which occurred in January, 1809[8].

    [Footnote 8: The symptoms in this case were related to me by
    Dr. Warren, sen.]

                              DISSECTION,
                      EIGHTEEN HOURS AFTER DEATH.

The countenance continued florid. The inferior extremities were much distended with water,
and the cellular membrane abounded in fat.

The right cavity of the pleura contained a moderate quantity of water; the left, scarcely any.
The lungs were firm, condensed, and dark coloured, from venous blood. The pleura, on the left
side opposite to the pericardium, appeared to have been inflamed, as there was an effusion
of coagulated lymph on its surface.

The pericardium was much distended with water. The heart, on the anterior surface of which
were some appearances of inflammation, was very much enlarged. Its parietes were thickened;
its cavities unnaturally large, and filled with black coagulum. Each of the valves had lost,
in some degree, its usual smoothness, and those of the aorta were, in some points, thickened,
and partly cartilaginous.

The liver was small, and, when cut, poured out dark blood. Its tunic was whitish, opaque, and
corrugated.

                                CASE V.

A. B. a negro, about thirty-five years of age, had paroxysms of dyspnœa and violent cough,
attended with œdema of the extremities and ascites, violent head-ache, dizziness, brightness
of the eyes, palpitations of the heart, irregular, intermittent, slow, and soft pulse. These
symptoms slowly increased, during three or four years, in which time the dropsical collections
were repeatedly dispersed. He gradually and quietly died in the alms-house, in January, 1809.

                              DISSECTION.

On dissection, the cavities of the pleura were found to contain a considerable quantity of
water. The pericardium was filled with water; the heart considerably enlarged; its parietes
very thin, and its cavities, especially the right auricle and ventricle, morbidly large[9].

    [Footnote 9: This dissection was performed by Dr. Gorham.]

                               CASE VI.

Mrs. M‘Clench, a washer-woman, forty-eight years of age, of good constitution and regular habits,
was attacked, in the summer of 1808, with palpitations of the heart and dyspnœa on going up
stairs, severe head-ache, and discharges of blood from the anus. These symptoms did not excite
much attention. In the winter of 1808-9, all of them increased, except the palpitations. The
inferior extremities and abdomen became distended with water; the region of the liver painful;
the skin quite yellow; the pulse was hard, regular, and vibrating; the countenance very florid.
Violent cough followed, and blood was profusely discharged from the lungs. This discharge being
suppressed, evacuations of blood from the anus ensued, under which she died, in March, 1809.

                              DISSECTION.

The right cavity of the thorax was filled with water; the left contained none. The lungs were
sound, but very dense, full of dark coloured blood, and, on the right side, pressed into the
upper part of the thorax. The heart was one half larger than natural; its substance firm, and
its anterior part, especially near the apex, covered with coagulated lymph. The right auricle
and ventricle were large, and their parietes thin. The parietes of the left auricle and ventricle,
particularly of the latter, were much thickened, and their cavities were filled with black
coagulum.

The liver was contracted; its coat wrinkled, and marked with appearances of recent inflammation.

                               CASE VII.

                       To JOHN C. WARREN, M. D.

MY DEAR SIR,

